

Under-fire Greg Chappell has resigned as India's cricket coach
following the team's first-round exit from the World Cup, it was
announced on Wednesday.


Indian cricket board president Sharad Pawar said that Chappell,
58, sent his office an e-mail saying he did not wish to renew his
contract as coach for "family and personal reasons."


"I can confirm that Chappell does not want to stay as coach for
family and personal reasons," Pawar, a federal minister, told
reporters here.


The former Australian captain has served as coach since June 2005
and his two- year contract was due to end after the World Cup.


His resignation comes two days before the Board of Control for
Cricket in India (BCCI) meets in Mumbai on Friday and Saturday to
take stock of the World Cup debacle.


Sources told AFP that Chappell will attend the meeting to present
his report on the team's dismal performance.


India were upset by Bangladesh and also lost to Sri Lanka to be
knocked out in the preliminary stage of the ongoing World Cup in
the Caribbean.


Chappell's e-mail to Pawar said he wished "Indian cricket much
joy and success in the future," sources said.


"I am grateful to the players with whom I have worked for the
challenges that they presented me with and which I tried to meet
in a professional, methodical and interesting way in the
interests of the team and the individual," Chappell wrote.


"I would like to make special mention of my support staff,
without whom I would not have survived the rigours of the past 22
months.


"Ian Frazer (biomechanist) and Greg King (trainer) deserve
special mention for their efforts, as do John Gloster
(physiotherapist), S. Ramakrishnan (computer analyst) and Ramesh
Mane (masseur).


"I am particularly grateful for the wonderful support of my
family, especially my wife Judy, who has enjoyed the experience
as much as I.


"I look forward to continuing my contact with India in the coming
years and I wish Indian cricket much joy and success in the
future," he wrote.


The outspoken Chappell generated more heat, controversy and
headlines in two years as coach than his genial predecessor John
Wright did in five years in the job.


Chappell became the media's whipping boy early in his tenure when
criticism of Sourav Ganguly's laid-back attitude saw the
country's most successful captain being thrown out of the team.


Chappell's displeasure at the exclusion of juniors such as Suresh
Raina for the World Cup, as revealed in a text message to a
journalist, raised the heckles of both the selectors and senior
players.


"If Greg had his way, even Sachin Tendulkar would have been
dropped," the Kolkata-based Telegraph newspaper quoted an unnamed
selector as saying.


In hindsight, Chappell may have been right since neither
Tendulkar, one-day cricket's most successful batsman, nor the
other experienced players managed to take India past the first
round.


Influential cricket officials believe the team has not moved
forward in the two years that Chappell has been coach. Many say
the 2003 World Cup finalists have fallen behind other teams.


Chappell's resignation came on the day senior pro Tendulkar
responded to media reports that Chappell had blamed the unhelpful
attitude of senior players for the disastrous World Cup campaign.


In a rare public outburst, the normally reticent Tendulkar, 33,
said he would be hurt if Chappell had questioned his or the
team's commitment.


"I've given my heart and my soul for 17 years," said Tendulkar,
statistically the most successful batsman ever with a world
record 35 Test and 41 one-day centuries


"No coach had mentioned even in passing that my attitude was not
correct," he told the Times of India, which ran his comments as
the lead front-page story.


"It's not that we are defending ourselves. We do realise that we
played badly and, as a team, we take full responsibility for
that. But what hurt us most is if the coach has questioned our
attitude."


India need to find Chappell's replacement quickly since they are
due to tour Bangladesh in May for two Tests and three one-day
internationals.

