

Journalists appealed to the Taliban to release an Afghan reporter
kidnapped a month ago at a meeting in Kabul Wednesday that echoed
calls for the freedom of a BBC correspondent being held in Gaza.


The Taliban claimed it had handed to negotiators a list of its
men in prison whom it wanted released in exchange for Afghan
reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi.


Naqshbandi was captured early March with Italian correspondent,
Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was freed after nearly two weeks in a
widely criticised deal that saw five Taliban prisoners set free.
Their Afghan driver was beheaded.


"The negotiations are ongoing," Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi
said. "It has been very successful. Our leaders have given a list
of our friends being held in government jails."


About a dozen Afghan and Italian journalists gathered in Kabul to
release a "direct appeal" to the Taliban, and in particular
commander Mullah Dadullah, believed to be holding Naqshbandi, for
his immediate release.


Dadullah has threatened in a message broadcast on Italian
television to kill Naqshbandi unless President Hamid Karzai
releases two Taliban prisoners.


"We journalists can never be considered prisoners of war. Our
mission, instead, is to report objectively the Afghan process,"
National Union of Journalists president Fazel Sancharaki said at
the meeting.


Italian journalist Lorenzo Cremonesi also called for the release
of BBC correspondent Alan Johnston, captured in Gaza City on
March 12.


Another Italian journalist, Duilio Giammaria, demanded the Afghan
government explain why it was holding the chief of staff of an
Italian-run hospital who was involved in the negotiations that
freed Mastrogiacomo.


Rahmatullah Hanifi was detained soon after the Italian was freed
but officials have not said why.


The deal that freed Mastrogiacomo was criticised by various
governments, notably the United States and Britain, and even the
Afghan Foreign Minister Rangin Dadfar Spanta.


Karzai's office said the move was an "exceptional measure" that
would not be repeated.

