

Four foreigners taken hostage in oil-rich southern Nigeria were
released Wednesday, diplomats and industry sources said.


Sources disagreed about whether the two Lebanese men, a Dutch man
and a British man were released as a group after being held in
separate locations by militants demanding a greater share of the
country's oil wealth.


The Briton was identified as Gordon Gray from Crieff in
Perthshire, who was seized by armed men four days ago from an
offshore rig in the western Niger delta.


A British Foreign Office spokeswoman said Gray, who works as
offshore installation manager with Aberdeen-based Dolphin
Drilling, was "in good health" and had been taken to the British
Deputy High Commission in Lagos.


An industry source and a member of a militant group in Port
Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, confirmed the release of the
Dutch man but could not identify him.


He was kidnapped March 23 from Port Harcourt, where he is
employed as security manager for the Nigerian arm of German
building company Bilfinger Berger.


The militant group member said two Lebanese nationals working for
construction firm Setraco were also released, a move confirmed by
Gray's employer.


Dolphin Drilling said the four men would undergo health checks in
Lagos before being reunited with their families.


Questioned about the timing of the releases, the militant said
"some money changed hands" but did not elaborate.


Since the start of this year, more than 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in southern Nigeria, at least as many as were abducted
during the whole of 2006.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
officials.


Some of the hostage-takers are well-organised, well-equipped
groups fighting for a greater share of oil wealth to go to local
communities. Others are more like criminal gangs out to make
money from ransom payments.


Most of the hostages have been released unharmed, but two Chinese
nationals abducted on March 17 in the southeastern state of
Anambra remain missing.


European Union officials have said that for security reasons EU
observers who will be monitoring forthcoming elections in Nigeria
will not deploy to the three most volatile states in the Niger
delta -- Rivers, Delta State and Bayelsa.


The best-known armed group in the region, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) warned recently that it
would step up its campaign of violence against oil interests.


Over the past few days, however, MEND has kept an unusually low
profile.

