

Jason Robinson is looking for a buoyant showing from England at
the rugby World Cup so that he can head off into retirement with
a flourish.


The Sale captain will play his last club match on Friday week but
has made himself available for England and admits it would be a
fairytale finish to his career if they were to retain their world
crown in France in October.


"I'm committed to England for the rest of the season and, if you
could write the script, it would be great to do well in the World
Cup," he said.


"There is a lot of hard work to do. If you look at the Six
Nations, we need more time together as a team and hopefully get
the best players on the field playing regularly.


"Hopefully we can prepare well and get the results."


Robinson, who has scored 26 tries in 43 England appearances,
believes that better preparation is the key to new coach Brian
Ashton's bid to turn around the fortunes of the national team.


"It's a massive job, there is no doubt about it," he said.


"England have slipped down the rankings quite a bit but we showed
at times during the Six Nations that we can do things. We were
the only team to beat France.


"We need to be consistent and hopefuly that will come by having
more game time together and being able to prepare.


"There were times during the Six Nations where we only had two
sessions together or had walk-throughs which is not good enough
at that level."


Robinson will call time on his club career after what will be his
533rd game in both codes of rugby against Bath next week and
insists there will be no going back on his decision.


A devout Christian, he now intends to spend more time with his
wife and three young children and hopes to move to the country
and buy a farm.


He said: "People keep saying I'm going to miss it but how many
times do you hear people on their death bed say 'I wish I had
spent more time at work?'


"I've been blessed where I've able to do the job I wanted to do
for such a long time but there are other things in life.


"I've certainly done well out of the game but you make
adjustments. You don't have to drink champagne and caviar every
day. There is nothing wrong with a cheese sandwich."


Robinson hopes to end his Sale career by helping them secure at
least one more win to stave off the lingering threat of
relegation and is confident the reigning champions can kick on
next season.

