

Preliminary tests for bird flu were positive on four Bangladeshi
workers who had been culling infected chickens in Kuwait, a
medical source said on Wednesday, but they have not been
officially confirmed.


This would be the first cases of bird flu affecting humans in
Arab nations of the Gulf.


"The first test on the four men was positive," the source told
AFP, requesting anonymity. "We have taken blood samples for a
second test to reconfirm the initial results. We expect the
outcome within hours.


"If the outcome is reconfirmed as positive, we will have to send
blood samples to the World Health Organisation (WHO) laboratory
in Cairo for a final confirmation," the source said.


Health ministry spokesman Ahmad Al-Shatti told AFP an official
statement would be made on Thursday, after tests results were
reviewed, as to whether the four were indeed infected.


The ministry said specimens "have been sent to the World Health
Organisation (WHO) reference laboratory in Egypt for
confirmation.


"These measures are in line with recommendations by WHO for
guidelines for the diagnosis and announcement of bird flu cases
in humans," he said.


The four workers were admitted to Kuwait's infectious diseases
hospital with flu-like symptoms on Tuesday. The men have been
isolated in a special ward and were still at the hospital on
Wednesday.


Since the outbreak of bird flu in Kuwait, 22 people have been
admitted to hospital on suspicion of being infected, but later
discharged after confirming they were healthy.


The Bangladeshis were part of official teams culling and burying
hundreds of thousands of chickens in Wafra, south of Kuwait City
on the Saudi border.


Kuwait has culled about 1.7 million birds, most of them egg-
laying chickens in four commercial poultry farms, since
confirming in February an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of the bird
flu virus that is dangerous to humans.


A total of 106 cases of the strain have so far been confirmed in
birds.


In November 2005, the Gulf state announced the first case of a
bird infected with the H5N1 strain -- a flamingo at a seaside
villa.


The H5N1 strain, the most aggressive form, has killed 170 people
worldwide, according to WHO, and seen millions of birds
destroyed.


H5N1 is an avian influenza subtype with pandemic potential, since
it might ultimately adapt into a strain that is contagious among
humans.

