

Amid smiles, handshakes and mutual wishes of success, the freed
sailors bade farewell to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad with
typical British politeness in a surprising end to their 13-day
ordeal.


The dramatic encounter between the sailors and the president at
Iran's presidential compound came just minutes after Ahmadinejad
had announced their imminent liberation during a news conference
in the same building.


Dressed in blue or grey suits, the sailors were shown on state
television lining up to shake the hand of the grinning president
and even exchange some words of polite chit-chat -- through an
equally beaming Iranian translator.


The sole female among the 15 sailors and marines who were
captured on March 23 -- Faye Turney -- was also shown wearing
trousers and a headscarf adorned with printed flowers.


Amid a scrum of Iranian reporters and officials, the sailors
could not be identified as their backs were to the camera. But
their stiffly polite comments to Ahmadinejad did not betray any
hint of bitterness over their captivity.


-- Ahmadinejad told the first sailor: "I hope that you will have
good luck."


First sailor: "Thank you very much."


-- Second sailor: "Nice to meet you. (Ahmadinejad nods). I want
to thank you and the Iranian nation."


Ahmadinejad: "Have success!"


Sailor: "How are you?"


Ahmadinejad: "How are you!"


-- Third sailor: "Thank you very much."


Ahmadinejad: "You came here on a compulsory trip."


Sailor: "I don't know if I'd put it like that but you could call
it that."


-- Ahmadinejad  (greeting fourth sailor): "Your release is
because of the birthday of the great prophet of Islam."


Fourth sailor: "I appreciate it and you have been kind to us."


The start of Ahmadinejad's news conference did not betray any
hint of the drama that was to come, starting with a long reading
from the Koran marking the birthday of the prophet Mohammed and
emphasising Islamic unity.


The president then embarked on one of his familiar tirades
against the world order and in particular the role of Britain and
the United States and the use of their veto on the UN Security
Council.


When he mentioned the sailor crisis, it was only to waspishly
attack London's handling of the affair and in particular its
decision to send the issue to the UN Security Council.


Amid great fanfare, he also pinned a medal on the chest of the
Revolutionary Guards naval commander who was responsible for the
arrests, as if make what was to follow later an even greater
surprise.


Reporters could have been forgiven for wondering what all the
fuss surrounding the eagerly anticipated conference was about.


Right at the end of his prepared statement, after mentioning
upcoming festivals in all the great monotheistic religions,
Ahmadinejad chose to make his dramatic announcement.


"Although Iran has the right to prosecute them by following the
model of the prophet the 15 people were pardoned and their
freedom given as a gift to the British people," Ahmadinejad said.


Completely changing the tenor of the news conference at a stroke
and throwing reporters' prepared questions into disarray,
Ahmadinejad then basked in the moment to enjoy the shock effect
of his announcement.


Iranian state media said the British sailors "shouted for joy"
when the news of their release was broken during the news
conference which they were watching live.


The president meanwhile rounded on British Prime Minister Tony
Blair for the fact that Turney was serving in the armed forces in
the first place.


"Among the British who were arrested, there was a woman who was
the mother of a child! Why do they give such missions to a woman
who is the mother of a child to patrol the sea?"

