

Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych sought to reassure
foreign investors Wednesday amid signs of nervousness after the
country plunged into political chaos.


"We will firmly guarantee respect for the rights of foreign
investors, those who are already in Ukraine and those who intend
to come," the pro-Russian premier told foreign ambassadors here.


Yanukovych said the dissolution of Ukraine's parliament on Monday
by President Viktor Yushchenko, his West-leaning rival, had no
bearing on the country's relations with its foreign partners.


"It will have no influence on our foreign policy," he said.


And he added that his government would be the "guarantor of calm
and stability" in the country, where demonstrators have taken to
the streets to protest the order to disband parliament.


Both the parliament and government have vowed to defy
Yushchenko's order to dissolve the legislature, which was issued
after a months-long power struggle with the prime minister.


On Wednesday, Bosch, the German group which is the world's
leading maker of car parts, announced a freeze on any decision
concerning the expansion of its activities in Ukraine.


"We have to wait to be more certain about the stability of the
political situation in Ukraine. For the moment, we are not very
sure of it," Bosch's managing director for Russia, Belarus and
Ukraine, Rene Schlegel, was quoted by Russian news agency
Interfax as saying.


The Ukrainian economy is in robust health, reporting 7.0-percent
growth in gross domestic product last year. Bosch reported a
17-percent increase in sales in the countru in 2006 to 65 million
euros (87 million dollars).


Chief analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow, Roland Nash, said
that the current instability in the country would deter foreign
investors.


"I think that anyone on the point of deciding to invest in
Ukraine would be wise to wait," he said.


Even if the Ukrainian economy has grown strongly, he warned that
"this uncertainty is currently taking on an air of a very
dangerous situation."


A senior official at a Ukrainian bank, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said that if the situation dragged on too long, the
crisis could frighten investors.


But "if it calms down after several months ... my feeling is that
it will not influence investments," he said.


The International Monetary Fund's Europe official, Albert Jaeger,
who has just completed a trip to Ukraine, said it was too early
to judge the possible economic consequences of the crisis.


The IMF forecasts the Ukrainian economy to grow 5.0-6.0 percent
in 2007, Jaeger said in an interview with the daily Kommersant.


While Ukrainian companies have become used to frequent elections,
foreign investors will be more cautious, Vassyl Yurchyshyn, chief
economist at the Ukrainian Centre for Economic and Political
Research, said.


He said he believed it would take at least 10 years for political
stability to return to Ukraine and the more faint-hearted
investors "should simply decide to not work with this country."


However, Ukraine's unpredictable political situation did not stop
it from attracting large amounts of foreign investment last year
in banking, property and trade, he added.


The flow of foreign direct investment last year reached 5.3
billion dollars, he said adding that weak legal protection for
property rights was a more formidable risk than political
instability.

