

Sri Lankan warplanes "bombed and completely destroyed" a key
Tamil Tiger naval base Wednesday, the defence ministry said,
drawing an immediate denial from the rebels.


Israeli-built Kfir jets pounded what the defence ministry said
was the "Sea Tiger headquarters" of the Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam (LTTE) at Puthukkudiyiruppu, some 15 kilometres (nine
miles) from the coast, in the northeast of the country.


The LTTE said there were no casualties from the bombing, which
they said took place near the "White Pigeon" charity, which helps
victims of landmines.


"The bombs fell about 60 metres (yards) away from the White
Pigeon building," LTTE spokeswoman Navaruban Selvy told AFP from
the rebel political headquarters of Kilinochchi, 330 kilometres
north of here.


"Fortunately there were no casualties, but the buildings were
damaged," she added.


In another attack in the same area, a military air raid killed
two civilians and injured four others, according to the pro-rebel
Tamilnet.com website. There was no immediate word from the
military about casualties.


Sri Lankan warplanes have been routinely bombing suspected rebel
positions in the island's northeast since April last year as part
of a new wave of violence.


"The base was completely destroyed, including its fuel storage
facilities, which burst into massive flames," the ministry
statement said. "The headquarter complex and many vehicles parked
were also destroyed due to the strike."


The Tiger spokeswoman said there were no rebel installations and
described it as a civilian area. "It was not a Sea Tiger base.
The sea is about 15 kilometres from where the bombs fell," she
added.


The Tiger rebels on Tuesday said that the air force had bombed
the same area that day and wounded four civilians who were
admitted to the Puthukkudiyiruppu hospital.


The air force suffered a humiliating attack last week when Tiger
aircraft bombed its main base next to the island's only
international airport and managed to escape unchallenged.


The rebel craft were in the air for more than two hours.


The latest military air raid came as the defence ministry
announced that troops had shot dead six Tamil Tiger rebels in
clashes in the embattled northern and eastern regions on Tuesday.


Four members of the LTTE were shot dead in the Jaffna peninsula,
the ministry said. Two more Tiger gunmen were shot dead in the
eastern district of Ampara, the scene of a bus bombing on Monday
that left 16 people dead, it added.


There were no reports of casualties among troops.


The Tamil rebels have waged a 35-year campaign for independence
that has claimed more than 60,000 lives.


More than 4,000 people have been killed in the latest upsurge of
fighting that began in December 2005 despite a truce arranged in
2002.

