

From governments to investors, news on Wednesday that Iran will
release 15 captive British servicemen brought an international
sigh of relief, but the biggest celebrations were with their
families.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed the news, insisting
there had been "no negotiation" to secure their freedom.


"Throughout we have taken a measured approach: firm but calm, not
negotiating but not confronting either," he said, in a statement
outside his Downing Street office, alongside Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett.


"I would like to thank our allies in Europe, our allies in the
United Nations Security Council for their support and also our
friends and allies in the region who played their part," he said.


British officials cautioned however that they were trying to find
out exactly when and how they would be released, as Iran said
that the group would be flying out of the country on Thursday.


"As Prime Minister Blair said, President (George W.) Bush also
welcomes the news," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said
meanwhile.


US officials denied the release was linked to US authorities
granting consular access to five Iranians held incognito since
being seized in Iraq three months ago.


"There is no link whatsoever," State Department spokesman Tom
Casey said.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, whose country
holds the rotating EU presidency, said he hoped it signalled a
new attitude of cooperation from the Islamic republic,
particularly with regard to Tehran's disputed nuclear programme.


"I hope that the British sailors will be free as soon as possible
and that they will be able to spend the Easter holidays at home,"
Steinmeier told journalists. "Congratulations to the British
government which apparently achieved this solution through
diplomatic contacts."


"This is a start and I hope that this start will open the door to
further cooperation," he said, adding that the international
community was ready to resume negotiations with Iran on the
nuclear issue at any time.


Russia also welcomed the release, describing it as a "goodwill
gesture" and claiming some credit.


"We view this as a goodwill gesture on the part of the Iranian
leadership," Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov was
quoted by Interfax news agency as saying.


"Certain actions, appeals to the Iranians by us, also had an
effect," he said. "We proceeded mainly from humanitarian
considerations and also from the fact that such incidents serve
to increase tensions, which is highly undesirable under the
circumstances."


France welcomed a "happy ending" to the affair.


"We now hope that this release will take place as soon as
possible," Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said.


Investors were also relieved, sending oil prices lower.


Concerns that the British sailors crisis could have led to Iran,
the world's fourth largest oil producer, to disrupt its crude
exports, had propelled oil prices to seven-month peaks above 69
dollars a barrel in London on Monday.


On Wall Street too, stocks posted modest gains as the release
helped to overshadow weaker-than-expected US economic data.


But the biggest relief was with the famlies, who could barely
contain their joy.


"I'm just so happy today," April Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21
-year-old Royal Navy sailor Nathan Summers, clutching a bottle of
champagne, told Sky News. "We've been absolutely devastated these
last 13 days, it's been the longest of my life."


"He's gone from a boy to a man in these last weeks. He looks a
million dollars. He's cool," added her husband Brian.


"Whoever has been in the right or wrong, the whole thing has been
a political mess, so let's just get them home. It's great," said
Ray Cooper, uncle of 22 -year-old Royal Marine Adam Sperry.

