

Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad pulled off a propaganda coup
Wednesday with the release of 15 British sailors, as he sought to
push his image as a decisive regional player, former diplomats
said.


While Britain will no doubt remain unhappy about the parading of
its nationals on Iranian television over the last two weeks, in
the short term his unexpected pre-Easter "gift" will likely earn
him mostly positive headlines.


Former Iranian diplomat Mehdi Varzi told AFP that Ahmedinejad had
milked the crisis well, showing the Iranian people that former
colonial power Britain was not militarily omnipotent, while also
boosting his credentials among Arab neighbours.


Varzi noted that the sailors were paraded on Iran's state-run
Arabic network Al- Alam, a sign Tehran was targeting an Arab
audience increasingly angry with US and British power in the
region.


"In a sense Iran can walk away from this (crisis) today and say
it won," said Varzi, who served as a diplomat in the Islamic
Republic's first two years and now runs an energy consultancy in
Britain.


Mansoor Farhang, a former Iranian ambassador to the United
Nations, said on BBC television that Iran had been indulging in
some "muscle flexing" to show it was a "power to be reckoned
with."


David Owen, a former British foreign secretary, said he now hoped
that Ahmadinejad would steadily improve Iran's tense ties with
Britain and the United States as well as play a constructive role
in stabilising neighboring Iraq.


"I think they want to turn over a new leaf," Owen told Sky News
television.


He recalled that Iran tried but failed to improve relations in
2003 with the United States, which has kept sanctions in place
since Iranian students seized hostages at the US embassy
following the Islamic revolution.


There could even be progress, he added, in the standoff between
the western powers and Iran over its nuclear programme, which
Tehran says is peaceful but Washington says conceal a quest for
nuclear weapons.


"He's a hardliner. We shouldn't delude ourselves, but it's a good
step," Owen said.


Bernard Jenkin, a Conservative member of parliament, said the
Iranian president had cleverly manipulated the situation to
present his surprise as a gesture of personal largesse.


"He played a blinder," Jenkin said.


Varzi said the motives behind Iran's capture of the 15 naval
personnel remained murky, as did the question of whether it had
sought or obtained a secret deal to win the return of Iranians
held in US-occupied Iraq.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair insisted there had been "no
negotiation" to secure the sailors' freedom and US State
Department spokesman Tom Casey said there was "no link
whatsoever" with the Iranians in Iraq.


Varzi and another former Iranian diplomat, Hormoz Naficy, said
Iran had wanted to send a message to the United States as well as
Britain.


"There are people I believe in the highest elements in the regime
who really do expect at some stage an American strike against
Iran," Varzi said.


The message was "we will not keel over" like Saddam Hussein in
Iraq, he said.


"They know they cannot defeat a western military attack against
the country. ... What they also know is they don't have to fight
the West on their own terms. This is what is called asymetrical
warfare," he added.


Iran feels encircled by the United States, with US forces in Iraq
and Afghanistan as well as aircraft carrier groups in the Gulf,
the former diplomats said.


"Iran wants to be recognised and seen as an actor in the area and
not ignored," Varzi said.

