

Pakistani tribesmen beating war drums Wednesday launched their
biggest assault yet against foreign Al-Qaeda militants in a
border region after weeks of fighting that have left 250 people
dead.


Islamabad says the offensive by about 1,000 conservative local
tribesmen will cut cross-border attacks in Afghanistan, and shows
the success of a peace deal in the lawless South Waziristan
region that was criticised by the West.


Forty-four Uzbek, Chechen and Arab Islamic rebels were killed on
Wednesday along with five tribesmen in heavy rocket and mortar
clashes, the mountainous region's top administrator Hussainzada
Khan told AFP.


"Intense fighting is still going on," he said.


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told reporters in Islamabad that
the clashes are "the result of the agreements the government made
with tribal people in which they pledged to expel foreigners and
now they are doing it."


"Around 200 foreign militants have been killed since the start of
the fighting and the overall figure including local tribesmen is
around 250," Sherpao said, updating an earlier toll of about 200
dead overall.


The clashes broke out on March 19 when an ex-Pakistani-Taliban
commander, Mullah Nazir, ordered foreign militants led by Uzbek
extremist Tahir Yuldashev, a one- time confidant of Osama bin
Laden, to disarm or leave the area.


Thousands of Arab and Central Asian militants were given shelter
by Pakistani tribesmen after fleeing Afghanistan when US-led
forces toppled the Taliban regime in late 2001, but the two sides
have now fallen out violently.


Officials say the foreign insurgents are linked to Bin Laden's
Al-Qaeda network and that they are responsible for coordinating
attacks across the porous border on NATO and US forces in
Afghanistan.


Residents and officials said around 1,000 tribesmen answered a
call from their leaders and set off from Wana, the capital of
South Waziristan, early Wednesday to mount a final push against
bunkers occupied by the foreign rebels.


"Soon after morning prayers there was a heavy sound of war drums
and tribesmen were seen leaving in different directions amid
shouts of 'Allahu Akhbar' (God is Greatest) and 'Victory,
victory, victory,'" Malik Sangeen Khan, a resident of Wana, told
AFP.


"Since this morning there have been massive sounds of rockets and
gunfire. It is louder even than the Pakistani military operations
here in 2004."


Residents and officials said it was the first time for three
years that the ethnic Pashtun tribes have played the war song on
the drums made from animal hide stretched over wooden frames.


Able-bodied males who refuse to answer the call are fined heavily
and their houses are burned down or demolished.


"Both sides have been using heavy weapons since this morning and
tribal fighters captured important Uzbek bunkers. In one bunker
alone 19 foreigners were killed," one security official said on
condition of anonymity.


Tribesmen also stationed children at local checkpoints to ensure
that people wearing all-covering burqas were women and not
foreign militants in disguise trying to flee the area, residents
said.


Men are not allowed to look under burqas in the conservative
region.


Pakistan signed peace pacts with pro-Taliban tribesmen in South
Waziristan in 2005 and North Waziristan in 2006, leading to
military pull-outs. It signed a similar deal in the northwestern
Bajaur tribal region last month.


NATO members and the United States say attacks on foreign forces
in neighbouring Afghanistan have risen as a result of the pacts.

