

Britain hailed Wednesday the unexpected announcement from Tehran
that its 15 sailors held in Iran were to be released, while
relieved relatives erupted in joy.


But it also said it was trying to find out exactly when and how
they would be freed, amid anticipation that it could be as soon
as later in the day.


"We welcome what the president has said about the release of our
15 personnel. We are now trying to establish exactly what this
means in terms of the method and timing of their release," a
Downing Street spokesman told AFP.


"It's been a long, long 13 days," Nick Summers, brother of
captive Nathan Summers, told Sky News after the unexpected
announcement by Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in Tehran.


The family of Royal Marine Adam Sperry said the announcement was
"the best present imaginable."


"The one thing I wanted was Adam's safe return to his family for
Easter," said his uncle Ray Cooper. "Whoever has been in the
right or wrong, the whole thing has been a political mess, so
let's just get them home. It's great."


The reactions came minutes after Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad Wednesday announced that the British sailors held for
nearly two weeks would be freed after his news conference and
could go straight to the airport.


"After the news conference they can go to the airport and go back
home," Ahmadinejad told a news conference in Tehran. "They will
be going back home today."


The eight sailors and seven marines were captured on March 23.
British officials said they had just completed boarding an Indian
merchant vessel, under a United Nations mandate, when they were
seized at gunpoint.


Britain insisted they were in Iraqi territorial waters, while
Tehran said they were in Iranian waters.


Britain pursued quiet diplomacy for the first few days, but after
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett hit a dead end in talks with
her Iraqi counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki on March 27, London's
patience snapped.


London issued a full-scale military briefing giving its version
of events the following day, Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to
ratchet up the pressure on Tehran and isolate it internationally
and Beckett issued a bullish statement to parliament.


All but one of the captives has been publicly named, either by
their families or the Iranian television videos released
throughout the crisis.


Attention focused on Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26, a married
mother and the only woman among the group.


She made a nervous appearance in the first Iranian video, which
came out shortly after Beckett's outburst.


Three handwritten letters were attributed to her, but the curious
English and odd content have led some to wonder how much
influence her captors had.


On Tuesday, Blair said that the coming 48 hours would be crucial
in efforts to ensure the sailors' release.


In Tehran the Iranian president's announcement took everyone by
surprise.


"While insisting on our rights, these 15 sailors have been
pardoned and we offer their freedom to the British people,"
Ahmadinejad said.


"I ask Mr. Blair not to judge the military personnel for the
truths that they said," said Ahmadinejad, referring to the
televised "confessions".

