

The United States reached its limit for visas for skilled
workers, mostly in high-tech industries, after the first day of
applications from employers, prompting protests that the program
is insufficient.


The US Citizenship and Immigration Services said that as of
Tuesday it had received "enough H-1B (visa) petitions to meet the
congressionally mandated cap" for the fiscal year starting
October 1.


The agency said it had received 150,000 applications for the
special visas and would begin a random selection process for the
65,000 allowed each year under US law.


There are another 20,000 visas accorded for persons who have at
least a master's degree from a university.


Otherwise, employers will have to wait until the following fiscal
year -- starting October 1, 2008.


High-tech companies have long claimed the visa limit is too low,
and complained that the meeting of the quota so quickly
highlights a need for urgent reforms.


"America must have access to the world's best talent if we are to
compete in the global economy," said Phil Bond, president of the
Information Technology Association of America.


"Upon its return, Congress should move quickly to raise the cap
and make it more responsive to market demand."


The Computer & Communications Industry Association said many
of the foreign nationals that companies hope to hire with H-1B
visas are already here doing research at US universities but that
the supply of visas has run out even before this year's
graduating class is eligible to apply.


"The clearly insufficient number of visas leads to our shutting
out the very skilled students we have trained," said CCIA
president Ed Black.


"We should not allow such a situation to continue. We call on
Congress to swiftly address this critical issue, so that our
industry can have continued access to needed foreign talent, and
not compel them to go overseas to work for foreign competitors."


Launched in 1990, the H-1B visa program allows foreign
scientists, engineers and technologists to be employed for up to
six years, at the end of which they must obtain a permanent
residency or return home. A large number come from Asia,
especially India.

