

Iran said on Tuesday it was "unaware" of a retired US FBI agent
who the United States says went missing last month during a
private visit to the Islamic republic.


"I am unaware of this issue and read the news on websites," the
student ISNA news agency quoted Intelligence Minister Gholam
Hossein Mohseni Ejeie as saying.


The United States said earlier this week it had asked Tehran for
information about the missing man, whose name and age have not
been disclosed.


"The issue might be followed through the foreign ministry and the
intelligence ministry plays no role," he said, responding to a
question whether Washington was pursuing the case via the the
Swiss embassy which looks after US interests in Iran.


US officials have said the man went missing while visiting Kish,
a small island of Iran's southern coast that has grown into a
major resort and free trade zone. Press reports said he was
researching a documentary.


Earlier on Tuesday an unnamed local official said "there is no
concrete evidence that a US citizen has entered Kish".


"This is worthless news. Unfortunately this news is published
with a political aim and has no professional value," the state
news agency IRNA reported.


"Instead of fabrication it would be better for the United States
to give evidence regarding the identity and flight information so
our local officials can investigate the matter," the official
added.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said on Tuesday that
Washington was still waiting for Iran's response to a request for
information about the retired agent, made through the Swiss
embassy in Tehran.


Washington has however stressed it sees no connection between the
man's disappearance and the affair of 15 British naval personnel
seized by Iran on March 23 allegedly for trespassing into Iranian
waters.


The United States cut diplomatic relations with Tehran in 1980
after its embassy in Tehran was seized by Islamist students after
the revolution and ties have remained frozen ever since.

