

Central African President Francois Bozize has called on rebels in
the conflict- torn country to disarm, state radio reported
Wednesday.


"I cannot help but lauch, once again, an appeal to those who
continue to use weapons to kill, traumatise and add to the
people's misfortune, to put down their weapons," Bozize
reportedly said Tuesday at the inauguration of a military base
financed by the European Union.


The base in Kaga Bandoro, 300 kilometres (188 miles) north of the
capital of Bangui, will house members of the country's military
as well as forces from other central African countries.


The multi-national force is assisting Bozize's government in its
attempt to repel rebel groups and reduce bandit attacks in the
north, which in the past two years has seen an upsurge in
violence by insurgents hostile to Bozize, who came to power in a
2003 coup.


The conflict has led to numerous deaths and to the displacement
of more than 280,000 people, according to the United Nations.
Some 70,000 have fled to neighboring Chad, Cameroon and Sudan.


The country's army has also been accused of violent acts against
civilians in the north.


The government signed a peace agreement with one of the main
rebel chiefs in February, but several groups refused to take
part, including the Union of Democratic Forces for Unity, which
launched an attack on March 3 in the northern town of Birao.


The rebels were pushed back by the military with the backing of
French forces.


Bozize said Tuesday that other barracks have or will soon be
built in four other northern areas.


Meanwhile on Wednesday, the United Nations' children's agency,
UNICEF, called for urgent action to tackle a "humanitarian
disaster" in the Central African Republic, where it said there
are between 300 and 600 child soldiers, with rebel groups
especially active in their recruitment.


UNICEF has appealed for 11.7 million dollars (8.7 million euros)
to help meet the country's humanitarian needs but to date only 22
percent of this total has been raised.

