

US golfer Brett Quigley joined his wife for the birth of their
first child in Florida on Wednesday and will return here in time
to tee off Thursday afternoon in his first Masters.


Quigley's chances of both participating in the tournament or
reaching his wife before she gave birth were in jeopardy Tuesday
as he raced away from Augusta National Golf Club after 11 holes
of a practice round.


Quigley arrived in time to be on hand when Lillian Sage Augusta
Quigley was born at 2:55 Wednesday morning, weighing 7 pounds and
two ounces and measuring 19 inches.


"I've already changed two diapers so I feel like a real veteran,"
Quigley said.


He will become a Masters veteran on Thursday afternoon when he
tees off in the next-to-last group alongside Fiji's Vijay Singh
and Japan's Hideto Tanihara. His late pairing was given purely by
chance.


"I thought about telling my first lie here and saying we did it
on purpose but it was just good fortune and we're delighted it
worked out that way," said Augusta National Golf Club chairman
Billy Payne.


Quigley raced off Augusta's famed "Amen Corner" from the 11th
green Tuesday after receiving a cell phone call from a friend
saying his wife Amy was going to give birth very soon. He caught
a plane home, arriving at 5:30 p.m.


"By the time we took off, Amy's contractions were three minutes
apart. I thought there was no way I would make it in time,"
Quigley said.


"Luckily I made it in time but then from 10 on we kept thinking
we were going to have a baby any minute."


At about 2:30 in the morning, doctors decided to perform a
Caesarian-section on Amy, whose original due date was April 16,
when they found the baby's head was slightly turned.


"I was with her and then we hear this baby start wailing. They
cleaned her up for me and she was crying and crying and crying,"
Quigley said. "The nurses handed her to me and I held her for the
first time and she stopped.


"And then I started crying."


Quigley had not slept by noon but hoped to grab a nap before his
evening plane back to Augusta while Amy likely will be in the
hospital until Saturday.


"It's going to be hard to leave but Amy wants me to go," Quigley
said. "That's the only reason I'm going. She and the baby are
healthy and she wants me to play.


"Amy has been great through the whole thing. She is amazing."


Quigley said the whirlwind journey might calm his nerves about
making his Masters debut enough to play better than he might have
otherwise.


"This may help me to mellow out a bit," he said. "It might take
the edge off things for me. Tiger is in the group in front of me
and playing with Vijay will be fantastic."

