

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday announced that
15 British sailors captured more than two weeks ago had been
pardoned and would be freed imminently.


"While insisting on our rights, these 15 sailors have been
pardoned and we offer their freedom to the British people,"
Ahmadinejad said in a dramatic announcement at a news conference
in Tehran.


He said they would be freed after the press conference and taken
straight to the airport.


His declaration came even after the hardline president lashed out
at Britain over its handling of the 13-day crisis and decorated a
Revolutionary Guards commander who had seized the Britons


Earlier, Iran had applauded a "change of tone" from Britain after
talks with a top advisor to Prime Minister Tony Blair, raising
hopes of a solution to the crisis that has further damaged ties
between Tehran and the West already frayed by the nuclear
standoff.


"London's action in changing its propaganda tone regarding the
issue of the arrest of the British sailors in our territorial
waters is appropriate," Iran's parliament speaker Gholam Ali
Hadad Adel had said.


"The effective measures taken by the British in the past few days
make the tone of their rhetoric more logical and instead of
controversy they are inclined towards negotiations," he added.
"This is a more appropriate action."


His comments came after Iran's top security official Ali Larijani
held talks with Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Sir Nigel
Sheinwald late on Tuesday.


Iran had insisted that they key to resolving the crisis was an
admission from Britain that the sailors and marines did intrude
into Iranian territorial waters when they were seized on March
23.


"The British should confess that they made a mistake and they
should no longer commit such moves," Hadad Adel had said.


Britain maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters but Iran says the sailors'
Global Positioning System (GPS) devices show they intruded on
Iranian waters.


The latest dramatic developments coincided with the release in
Baghdad of an Iranian diplomat kidnapped in Iraq in early
February. Iran had blamed US forces in the country for the
abduction.


Iranian state media also said five Iranian officials captured by
US forces in northern Iraq in January and accused of seeking to
stir trouble were expected to receive their first visit by an
Iranian diplomat.


Asked if the five Iranians should be freed to favour a possible
release of the Britons, US President George W. Bush insisted
there should be no "quid pro quos".


New still images were released on Tuesday of the detained sailors
and marines, showing them "relaxing" in tracksuits and playing
chess, a change from the previous string of video "confessions."


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.


In a separate affair, local officials denied US reports that a
missing former US FBI agency had disappeared while on a private
visit to Iran's southern resort island of Kish, state media
reported.

