

Global warming could be heating Mars four times faster than Earth
due to a mutually reinforcing interplay of wind-swept dust and
changes in reflected heat from the Sun, according a study
released Wednesday.


Scientists have long observed a correlation on Mars between its
fluctuating temperatures -- which range from -87 C to - 5 C (-125
F to 23 F) depending on the season and the location -- and the
darkening or lightening of swathes of the planet's surface.


The explanation is in the dirt.


Glistening Martian dust lying on the ground reflects the Sun's
light -- and its heat -- back into space, a phenomenon called
albedo.


But when this reddish dust is churned up by violent winds, the
storm-ravaged surface loses its reflective qualities and more of
the Sun's heat is absorbed into the atmosphere, causing
temperatures to rise.


The study, published on Thursday by the British journal Nature,
shows for the first time that these variations not only result
from the storms but help cause them too.


It also suggests that short-term climate change is currently
occurring on Mars and at a much faster rate than on Earth.


Its authors, led by Lori Fenton, a planetary scientist at NASA,
describe the phenomenon as a "positive feedback" system -- in
other words, a vicious circle, in which changes in albedo
strengthen the winds which in turn kicks up more dust, in turn
adding to the warming.


In the same way, if a snow-covered area on Earth warms and the
snow melts, the reflected light decreases and more solar
radiation is absorbed, causing local temperatures to increase. If
new snow falls, a cooling cycle starts.


For Earth, global warming is mainly associated with human
activities -- notably the burning of fossil fuels -- that release
carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere, trapping more of the
Sun's heat.


But changes in our planet's average temperature can also be
driven up or down by natural phenomena such as shifts in orbit or
axis rotation, and the release of naturally-occurring greenhouse
gases by volcanoes and vegetation.


On Mars, there have been an unusual number of massive, planet-
darkening storms over the last 30 years, and computer models
indicate that surface air temperatures on the Red Planet
increased by 0.65 C (1.17 F) during from the 1970s to the 1990s.


Residual ice on the Martian south pole, they note, has steadily
retreated over the last four years.


By comparison, the average temperature of Earth increased by 0.75
C (1.33 F) over the last century.


To measure the change in patterns of reflected light, Fenton and
her colleagues compared thermal spectrometer images of Mars taken
by NASA's Viking mission in the late 1970s with similar images
gathered more than 20 years later by the Global Surveyor.


They then analyzing the correlation between albedo variations,
the presence of atmospheric dust and change in temperature.


Exactly what triggers the planet's so-called "global dust storms"
remains a mystery.


But any future research must now consider albedo variations as
one of the factors that drive Martian climate change, they
conclude.


Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun, with a surface area of
about 230 million square kilometers (90 million square miles).
The Red Planet rotates on its axis every 24.62 hours, and its
year lasts 686.93 Earth days. Its atmosphere is composed mostly
of carbon dioxide.


The albedo of Earth, averaged across all its different surfaces,
is about 30 times greater than that of Mars, which is far darker.

