

Sevilla coach Juande Ramos believes that Fredi Kanoute will get
revenge over his old club Tottenham Hotspur when the two sides
meet in the UEFA Cup quarter-final first leg on Thursday.


Kanoute failed to settle during his two seasons at White Hart
Lane, and before that at West Ham, although the French-born
Malian international striker did score 14 goals in 42 Premiership
games during his stint with Spurs.


He moved to Sevilla at the start of last season and this year
tops the Spanish first division scoring charts with 19 goals to
his name.


"When I saw him playing in England I thought he could be a great
player. I thought he would adapt quickly to Spanish football and
the life that we have here," said Ramos at a press conference
here on Wednesday.


Ramos added that he is expecting Kanoute to once again play
through the pain barrier against his former club, blocking out
the mild groin strain which has persisted since the start of the
year.


Sevilla club medical officials said earlier on Wednesday that
they thought Kanoute could survive until the end of the season
without undergoing an operation.


"In Pamplona (the 0-0 draw at Osasuna on Sunday) he played 20
minutes and was in good condition after the game. A couple of
days rest means that he should be healthy for tomorrow's game,"
added Ramos.


Sevilla are seeking to become only the second team to win back-
to-back UEFA Cup competitions, after Real Madrid's successes in
1985 and 1986, but Ramos acknowledged that Tottenham pose the
sternest threat to their defence so far.


"I think both teams in this fixture are equal. Maybe the
advantage even lies with Tottenham because they are at home for
the second leg so we are going to put in a tremendous effort here
so that we have a chance of progressing."


Ramos revealed that he is a great fan of English football,
although the admission will come as no surprise to neutrals in
Spain who believe Sevilla are one of the most 'English-style'
teams in La Liga in terms of their physical approach to games.


"I follow what goes on in the Premiership and I love its passion.
I'd even like to coach in the Premiership one day although not
just yet as I'm happy at Sevilla and want to stay here a lot
longer."


Hundreds of thousands of people are expected to line the streets
watching the city's famous nightime religious holy week
processions on Thursday, but Ramos is hoping that Sevilla fans
will not abandon his side at the time of their greatest need.


"It's an uncomfortable date but against a tough rival (like
Spurs) we need our fans behind us. Our fans can sometimes make
opponents freeze and we don't want to lose that factor. At home
our fans can be an added danger to the opposition," said Ramos.


The statistics endorse Ramos's point.


Sevilla have won 11 of their 13 La Liga matches at home this
season and lost only once although they did also surprisingly
lose 2-1 to Dutch side AZ Alkmaar in the group stage of the UEFA
Cup.

