

A UN war crimes tribunal on Wednesday jailed a former Bosnian
Serb policeman for 15 years after he pleaded guilty to raping and
torturing Bosnian Muslim women during the 1992-1995 war.


Dragan Zelenovic, 46, had admitted to seven charges of crimes
against humanity, including rape and torture, in a plea deal that
saw prosecutors drop seven war crimes charges.


One of the cases involved the multiple rape of a 15-year-old
girl.


He was the first suspect to plead guilty to a rape charge before
the International Criminal Court for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY)
in The Hague.


In handing down the 15-year prison term, Dutch judge Alphons Orie
followed the maximum sentence recommended by the prosecution. It
was not yet clear whether an appeal would be lodged.


After Bosnian Serb forces took over the eastern Bosnian town of
Foca in April 1992, military police started arresting Bosnian
Muslims and Croats.


Women, children and the elderly were separated from the men and
held in various detention centres.


Zelenovic "personally committed nine rapes, eight of which were
both rapes and tortures," the judge said, adding that "four were
gang rapes with three co- perpetrators or more."


He also referred to the case of a girl, aged 15 at the time,
identified as witness number 87, who was repeatedly raped by
Zelenovic. At one point he had raped her while pointing a pistol
to her head, he said.


In another case, Zelenovic had participated in a rape in which a
group of 10 men had left a woman unconscious, the judge said.


"The victims were in a particularly vulnerable situation, unarmed
and defenceless, for a long time in detention... They lived in
constant fear of rape, some became suicidal, others
indifferent...," he said.


"The scars left were deep."


Zelenovic was transferred to the ICTY in June last year after
nearly 10 years on the run.


In February 2001, the UN court sentenced three other Bosnian Serb
soldiers to up to 28 years in prison for raping, torturing and
enslaving Bosnian Muslim women and girls in Foca.

