

Turkey said Wednesday it was awaiting Baghdad's consent for a
gathering in Istanbul of leading powers including the United
States to discuss the turmoil in Iraq.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he had discussed the
issue with Iraqi President Jalal Talabani at the Arab League
meeting in Riyadh last week.


"We are waiting for their response. They said they would give a
response some time in the first week of April," Erdogan told a
joint news conference with his visiting Kuwaiti counterpart
Sheikh Nasser Mohammed al-Ahmed al-Sabah.


He did not say when the gathering would be held.


The meeting was originally expected to take place in early April,
following a lower-level conference in Baghdad last month at which
the US ambassador in Iraq held direct talks with Iranian
officials, marking the highest level contact between the two foes
in more than four years.


It would bring together the foreign ministers of Iraq, its
neighbours and the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council as well as the Group of Eight industrialised nations,
Erdogan said.


It would see US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sit alongside
her counterparts from Iran and Syria, which Washington accuses of
fuelling the insurgency in Iraq.


Officials from Iraq's six neighbours have met regularly since
January 2003, when Turkey spearheaded the initiative as part of
efforts to force Baghdad to comply with UN resolutions and avert
a US invasion.


Besides Syria, Iran and Turkey, they include Jordan, Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia. Egypt and Bahrain have also taken part in the
meetings.


The five permanent Security Council members are Britain, China,
France, Russia and the United States. The G-8 includes all five
minus China as well as Canada, Germany, Italy and Japan.


The participants at the Baghdad talks on March 10 failed to agree
on a date and venue for a follow-up conference at a ministerial
level.


Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said at the time that
Baghdad would like the talks to take place in the country, but
some envoys wanted them moved to Cairo or Istanbul.


Turkish diplomats have said Iran is also insisting for the
meeting be held in Baghdad.

