

The US Wednesday welcomed Iran's release of 15 British naval
personnel, but denied it was linked to granting consular access
to five Iranians held incognito since being seized in Iraq three
months ago.


"As Prime Minister Blair said, President Bush also welcomes the
news" of Wednesday's release, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino
said.


The US administration has stayed in the background since the
group was seized on March 23 in Gulf waters leaving British Prime
Minister Tony Blair to deal with the situation, anxious not to
complicate things.


But Bush did denounce the capture of the group as "indefensible"
and said he and Blair had agreed "that there should be no quid
pro quos when it comes to the hostages."


This appeared to rule out any deal with Tehran to swap the
British sailors and marines for five Iranians captured by US
forces in northern Iraq in January.


The latest developments coincided with the release in Baghdad of
an Iranian diplomat kidnapped in Iraq in early February. Iran had
blamed US forces in the country for the abduction.


Iranian state media also said earlier Wednesday that five Iranian
officials accused by the US of seeking to stir trouble in Iraq
were expected to receive their first visit by an Iranian
diplomat.


Washington said however there was no link between the sudden
granting of consular access to five Iranians held in Iraq, and
the release of 15 British naval personnel.


"There is no link whatsoever. Neither we nor the British nor
anyone else, as far as I know, has made that link," State
Department spokesman Tom Casey said when asked if there was a
connection.


"It would be pure speculation on my part to try and ascribe
motive to any of this stuff. I simply don't know and I don't
think anyone does short of the Iranians," the spokesman added.


The five Iranians were arrested by US forces in Arbil in Iraqi
Kurdistan on January 11.


The United States accuses the men of being members of the elite
Al-Quds brigade of Iran's Revolutionary Guards. Iran insists they
are diplomats working for a "consulate".


White House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe added on
board Air Force One that: "I have no information to indicate
there is any linkage to these issues."


He also welcomed news of the Britons' release, saying "this is
very recent information, but we need to see how this develops."


Relieved families of 15 British navy personnel detained for
nearly two weeks in Iran voiced delight Wednesday that their
relatives were coming home.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Royal Navy sailor Nathan
Summers, clutching a bottle of champagne.


"Nathan, what can I say, we just want you home and we'll
celebrate. Thank the Lord everything has turned out well for
them."


All but one of the service personnel have been named either by
their families or on Iranian video footage that for their
relatives was their only sign that their loved ones were alive,
well and coping.

