

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert is not ready for "serious
negotiations" with the Arabs to find a peaceful solution in the
Middle East, Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr said
Wednesday.


"I think Prime Minister Olmert is not prepared to take part in
serious negotiations with the Arab side," Abu Amr told a press
conference here after meeting his Austrian counterpart, Ursula
Plassnik.


Olmert said this week he was ready to attend an Arab summit to
discuss a revived Saudi-drafted peace plan but has been accused
by the Arab League of seeking normalised ties with the
Palestinian government without making concessions.


"Whoever does not accept this initiative is not really interested
in peace in the Middle East," Abu Amr said of the peace
initiative, which offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws
from all land seized in 1967 and allows for the creation of a
Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian refugees.


The five-year-old peace initiative, revived last week by the Arab
League, is a "good basis for peace, for a comprehensive peace,"
he said.


"If Olmert only said he was ready to talk with the Arabs... to
end occupation... then I think nothing would stand in the way" of
a peaceful solution, Abu Amr said.


Abu Amr had already criticised Olmert's call for talks during a
visit to Paris Monday, describing it as an attempt to put "the
horse before the carriage."


Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik called on the
Palestinian government to fulfil the expectations of the
international community and renounce violence, recognise Israel
and honour past agreements.


"These expectations have not been fully met... but the EU is
prepared to work with a Palestinian government that will tackle
these expectations," Plassnik said.


Abu Amr, an independent in the two-week-old unity government
which includes members of Fatah as well as the hardline Islamist
movement Hamas, also called on the European Union to cooperate
with the new administration "without discrimination between the
different members of this government."


"All factions are represented in this government, this is a
strong government," he said.


The minister, on his first visit to Europe since the new
government was formed two weeks ago, said he wanted to "explain
what progress we've made in Palestine since the formation of a
national unity government."


He also promised that "the Palestinian government will clear up
misunderstandings between Palestinians and the international
community in coming weeks."

