

The United Nations on Wednesday criticised the alleged
intimidation of Democratic Republic of Congo opposition members
following clashes between government troops and opposition
militants.


The UN mission in the central African country, MONUC, said it was
"deeply worried by the intimidations and the threats against
several opposition members, including members of parliament,
senators, journalists and other people considered to be linked to
MLC (Bemba's Congolese Liberation Movement) or close to people
who are."


"MONUC has received information about 27 people, of whom 19 are
opposition members and eight are journalists, whose residences
continue to be visited by security forces, and sometimes
ransacked," mission spokesman Kemal Saiki said.


"Some of these people have also received threats over the phone.
Others have learned that members of their families have been
arrested in their place. All of them have been living in fear and
insecurity since these events."


Diplomatic sources say at least 200 people were killed in clashes
between government troops and fighters loyal to main opposition
leader Jean-Pierre Bemba in Kinshasa from March 22 to 25.


MONUC also warned against the establishment of "a climate of
persecution" of opposition members and people from the northern
Equateur province, where Bemba comes from.


Bemba, who lost the presidential election to Joseph Kabila last
October, remains at the South African embassy in Kinshasa, where
he took refuge when last month's fighting began. He is awaiting
evacuation to Portugal for medical treatment.


The ex-rebel leader, who served as a vice president for DR
Congo's transitional government following the country's bloody
five-year civil war, had refused to have his vice-presidential
bodyguard integrated into the regular army, arguing that his
personal security could not be guaranteed.


MONUC said it had created "an investigation team" after being
informed of "allegations of serious human rights violations"
including summary executions, sexual violence and illegal
detentions committed by both sides.


The UN mission said it was counting on the government to
cooperate with its probe by giving it "access to all places of
detention with no exceptions."

