

Hungarian Health Minister Lajos Molnar, an unpopular but
ambitious reformer of the country's wasteful healthcare system,
has resigned, the prime minister's office said Wednesday.


Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany accepted the
resignation, which takes effect on Friday, a statement said
without giving any reasons for Molnar's departure.


Reforming the healthcare system, burdened with debts and an
excess of low- quality hospitals, has become a key test of the
government's determination to reform the economy, which is
teetering under the weight of the highest deficit in the European
Union.


"The prime minister and the government are still committed to
continuing healthcare reforms," Gyurcsany's office said.


Gyurcsany has raised taxes, cut subsidies on household energy
prices and laid off thousands of civil servants in a bid to rein
in a deficit that is estimated at nearly 10 percent of gross
domestic product for 2006.


But amid all the austerity measures -- which have caused the
government's popularity to plummet -- none proved more unpopular
than the reform of the health system.


Molnar, a liberal member of the leftist government, introduced
co-payments of 300 forint (1.20 euros, 1.50 dollars) for doctor's
visits, cracked down on free riders who did not pay social
security, and threatened mass hospital closures.


This triggered protests in recent months, with doctors and locals
joining forces, often to form "human shields" around hospitals.


The lans to close hospitals were watered down, with only three of
them now slated for closure although the government is pressing
ahead with plans to create high-quality, regional medical
centres.


Critics said Molnar's reforms, like the government's plans in
other areas, were implemented too quickly and without careful
planning.


Fidesz has been demanding Gyurcsany's resignation since an audio
tape was leaked last September, in which the prime minister was
heard saying he misled voters with promises of tax cuts to win
re-election last April.

