

East Timor President Xanana Gusmao warned Wednesday of violence
during next Monday's election to choose his successor.


"There will be provocation from one group," Gusmao told AFP,
declining to identify it.


He was speaking at a rally for CNRT, a newly formed political
party which he says he intends to join with the aim of gaining
the prime minister's post, which holds much more power than the
presidency.


Gusmao is not running for re-election as president.


The CNRT, or National Congress of Reconstruction of Timor, has
the same initials in Portuguese as an umbrella group that sought
independence during a United Nations-supervised referendum in
which East Timorese voted to split from Indonesia in 1999.


Former prime minister Mari Alkatiri has alleged the new CNRT
party was deliberately given a misleading name to confuse and
deceive voters.


Alkatiri is secretary general of Fretilin, which led the
independence struggle and which is fielding a former senior
guerrilla fighter, Fransisco Guterres, as its presidential
candidate.


Another candidate, current Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta,
joined Gusmao at the CNRT rally before hundreds of people at a
stadium in the capital, Dili.


Both Ramos-Horta and Guterres are strong contenders to win the
presidential ballot.


Ramos-Horta told AFP that if there is any violence on election
day, "it will be limited and it will be easily controlled."


The comments came as United Nations police fired warning shots
after two officers were injured when they came across people
fighting with rocks near the Australian embassy, the police said.


Five other people received minor injuries in a separate incident
near Dili involving rival supporters, they said.


Hundreds of Fretilin backers paraded through the city in
vehicles, as did hundreds who support the opposition Democrat
Party, whose presidential candidate, Fernando De Araujo, also
stands a chance to win the vote.


Five other candidates are running for election in the first
presidential ballot since the impoverished former Portuguese
colony became independent in 2002 after more than two decades of
Indonesian occupation.


Last year at least 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced by
violence that led to the dispatch of Australian-led international
peacekeepers.

