

Spain's decision to renew ties with Cuba is unlikely to be
followed soon by the European Union and it could fuel divisions
over the best way to promote democracy on the island, diplomats
said Wednesday.


The decision came Tuesday during a visit to Cuba by Spanish
Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos, whose government has
spearheaded efforts to revive relations hurt by Havana's jailing
of 75 dissidents four years ago.


For many EU diplomats, it simply confirmed something that they
had known for a long time: Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero would prefer to go it alone on Cuba rather than struggle
to rally 27 European countries behind him.


This is because the union is very divided when it comes to a
dossier that "has the ability to raise the room temperature the
moment you touch it," one diplomat said, on condition of
anonymity.


Most states agree that with the health problems of veteran leader
Fidel Castro and the arrival of his brother Raul, Cuba "is in a
transitional phase, but certainly not yet post-Castro," another
diplomat said.


But when it comes to steps needed to encourage the regime to open
up or free political prisoners -- some 280 opposition figures are
in jail, dissidents say -- or whether steps are needed at all,
positions are diametrically opposed.


Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Portugal back Spain, and others --
France and Ireland among them -- believe that "a policy of
dialogue and engagement usually gets more results than a policy
of isolation," the first diplomat explained.


At the other end of the diplomatic scale, the Czech Republic,
Estonia, Poland and Sweden believe that no relations can begin
with Cuba until it makes greater progress toward democracy.


"The Czech Republic has a different long term opinion to that of
Spain when it comes to dealing with the Cuban regime," Czech
Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg said after the decision to
renew ties was announced.


"There is not a change in Czech policy towards Cuba. The question
of human rights constitutes one of the foreign policy priorities
for the Czech Republic," he said in a statement.


In May 2005, Schwarzenberg was one of several European lawmakers
expelled from Cuba as they arrived to attend a congress of Cuban
political dissidents.


The European Union imposed political and diplomatic sanctions on
Cuba in 2003 after the regime arrested and sentenced the 75
dissidents to terms of six to 28 years of prison. Sixteen have
since been released due to poor health.


In a sign of the EU's divisions, the sanctions were suspended in
2005 at Spain's urging but it takes a unanimity decision to lift
them altogether, as Cuba has been demanding.


So the suspension is simply renewed every six months and this
looks likely to happen again next time, in June, when EU foreign
ministers are expected to re- examine strategy toward the island.


Those countries most opposed to resuming relations with Cuba
could propose at that time "a programme of strong engagement with
open society, comparable to what the EU has done with Belarus,"
one of their diplomats said.


But "unless there are major events or deaths in Cuba by then",
the meeting is unlikely to produce anything new, an EU official
said.

