

Human Rights Watch warned on Wednesday that the Nigerian
government's "partisan meddling in the electoral process and its
unwillingness" to tackle political violence could undermine this
month's poll.


"It seems plain that on April 14 and 21, Nigerian voters will
again face the threat of violence, intimidation and fraud," Human
Rights Watch (HRW) said in its latest report


The HRW report said that the Nigerian government has so far
failed to put in place some of the basic foundations for free and
fair election.


"The use of violence for political ends has become routine in
Nigeria," the New York-based group said.


"Crucially, the Nigerian police have failed to make any real
effort to investigate or prosecute politicians responsible for
mobilising violence ahead of the elections", the report
continued.


"The Nigerian government should ensure that these elections mark
a sharp departure from the violence and corruption that has
marred the political system," Peter Takirambudde, HRW Africa
director said in the report.


HRW said that nearly all the candidates indicted and barred from
the elections "are either members of the opposition or ruling
party supporters who are seen as being close to vice president
Atiku Abubakar".


Abubakar, a presidential candidate who has fallen out with
President Olusegun Obasanjo and who has been indicted over
alleged corruption, is barred by the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) from the April 21 poll.


An HRW official in Nigeria, Chris Albin-Lackey, told journalists
at the release of the report that since last November more than
100 people have lost their lives in about 170 incidents of
election-related violence.


He criticised as "sorely disappointing" what he said was the
passive role of the international community, including the US and
Britain in the face of the "flaws" in the country's electoral
process.


"They (international community) are likely to accept the result
of the poll" even if the conduct of elections is not free and
fair, he said.


Albin-Lackey said the actions of the state-funded anti-graft
agency the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and
the electoral agency INEC constitute "gross interference in
electoral process".


He said the government "are intent on establishing a one-party
state."


The government is yet to react to the HRW report.


State governorship and State assembly polls are scheduled for
April 14 while presidential and National Assembly elections are
fixed for April 21.

