

Tiger Woods will use the same fiery spirit he shows on the golf
course, a passion instilled in him by his Thai mother Kultida,
when it comes to raising his first child.


The 31-year-old US golf superstar seeks his 13th major title and
fifth Masters green jacket this week at Augusta National Golf
Club while his Swedish wife Elin is expecting the couple's first
child in July.


Asked whether or not he would be a soft touch or a strict parent,
Woods replied, "Disciplinarian. Trust me. I take after my mom in
that regard."


At his first Masters since the death of his father Earl from
cancer last May and his final Masters before becoming a father,
Woods pondered the contribution his parents made to his legendary
calm under pressure.


"My mom is probably more competitive than my father outwardly.
She's certainly more abrasive about her emotions and she wears
them on her sleeves. Dad was not like that. Dad was more icy and
more cool," Woods said.


"So when I'm out there on the golf course and I get a little
fiery, I think that's my mom coming out. If I'm playing pretty
cool and level-headed, it's definitely dad."


Woods said his father, who developed mental toughness in his son
through distractions while he played, would not be his perfect
role model.


"As an ultimate model, no. But I am pretty lucky to have had him
in my life," Woods said. "It's amazing that here I am, 31 years
old, and (the advice from) my father is getting smarter every
year.


"Hopefully my child some time down the road a little bit will say
the same thing."


Hype has already started over the birth of the "Tiger Cub". USA
Today asked readers this week to submit suggestions for baby
names and ran lists of the most popular US, Swedish, Thai and
Florida boy and girl names.


Two-thirds of those who replied said they expected Woods would
name his child after his father Earl, perhaps even if it means
Earline.


Woods, a child prodigy who was on television at age two, said he
was hiding his true feelings last year at the Masters and was
especially devastated to lose knowing it was the last event his
father would see him play.


"Last year was a lot more difficult than I was letting on," he
said. "I knew that was the last tournament he was ever going to
watch me play. I wanted to win one for his last time and didn't
get it done and it hurt quite a bit."


Fatherhood figures to change Woods' focus as he attempts to
surpass the all-time major triumphs record of 18 set by Jack
Nicklaus, a six-time Masters winner. Other golf stars have seen
their lives change when they became parents.


"It certainly affected me. My children were very important to
me," said four- time Masters champion Arnold Palmer, who overcame
a fear of flying so he could handle golf and business commitments
and maximize time with his family.


Defending Masters champion Phil Mickelson was asked if he thought
becoming a father would reduce Woods' competitive drive and
replied, "No, but I hope it does." After laughter, he admitted,
"I don't see that happening."


Mickelson was ready to leave the 1999 US Open to be with wife Amy
when she gave birth to their first child. He placed second, the
first of four runner-up showings at the event, then joined his
wife for the birth of daughter Amanda.


Mickelson, who also has a daughter Sophia and son Evan, said the
big crunch of fatherhood and a golf career is in juggling
schedules.


"I don't think it changes much," Mickelson said.


"You just have to have a better balance of your time so that you
are able to still have time to make your relationship with your
wife strong and time to spend quality time with your child and be
a guiding factor in their life, as well as being able to prepare
for your game."


Woods will have plenty of things tugging at his time around the
time his wife is expecting, including the US Open, British Open
and the National, the new US PGA Tour event in Washington that
Woods' foundation is running.


But Mickelson noted that the birth of a first child is special.


"It was the most emotional experience my wife and I have ever
shared together," he said. "That's a life experience you don't
want to miss. You just can't get that back. That's a once-
in-a-lifetime experience."

