

Estonian Prime Minister Andrus Ansip won parliament's approval
for a record second term on Wednesday, pledging tax cuts, moves
towards adopting the euro and increased defence spending.


"We are striving for an Estonia that would belong among the
wealthiest nations in Europe, that would hold together and be
happy," Ansip told parliament in a speech.


Ansip's right-of-centre Reform Party came top in March 4
parliamentary polls. Earlier this week the pro-business party
signed a coalition deal with Pro Patria-Res Publica and the
Social Democrats, and the trio have a comfortable 60-vote
majority.


Ansip, 50, received the backing of 62 lawmakers in the Baltic
state's 101-member single-chamber legislature to form the new
government. None voted against and one abstained, while the
remaining members were either absent or did not take part.


With the vote Ansip becomes the first sitting premier to be re-
elected since Estonia broke free from the collapsing Soviet Union
in 1991. No government in Estonia has managed to serve a full
four-year term since then because of bust ups in a succession of
coalitions.


Ansip's cabinet list was approved by President Toomas Hendrik
Ilves later Wednesday, and the new government is due to assume
office Thursday.


Among the new ministers is Juhan Parts, of the Pro Patria-Res
Publica party, whom Ansip replaced as premier in April 2005 and
who has been given the economics portfolio.


In his speech, Ansip said his new government would reduce the
flat rate of income tax from the current 22 percent to 18 percent
by 2011 and would continue pressing for the adoption of the
single European currency.


"Joining the eurozone is a clear aim and our wish is to adopt the
euro as soon as possible," he said.


Estonia had to shelve plans to adopt the euro on January 1 this
year because inflation exceeded the rate set by the European
Union for would-be eurozone members.


Ansip has said that it is impossible for Estonia to fix a new
date. Analysts forecast that the Baltic state could not join the
eurozone before 2012.


Ansip also pledged that his new government would increase defence
spending up to 2.0 percent of gross domestic product by 2010 --
from the current 1.8 percent -- to comply with promises made when
Estonia joined the NATO military alliance in 2004.


"Estonia's defence is inseparable from the defence policies of
NATO and the EU," which the Baltic state also joined in 2004, he
said.


"It is vitally important for Estonia to preserve ... our
unfaltering ties with the Western world, with Western values."


The Reform Party has 31 seats in parliament, the conservative Pro
Patria-Res Publica 19, and the left-wing Social Democrats 10.
Ansip's previous government was a coalition comprised of the
Reform Party and two centre-left parties, the Centre Party and
the People's Union.

