

Afghanistan's Islamist Taliban movement said Wednesday it had
captured two French humanitarian workers who have been reported
missing with three Afghans for nearly two days.


The group, travelling in southern Afghanistan, had been out of
contact with their organisation, Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our
Children), since early Tuesday, the French foreign ministry and
Afghan government said earlier.


"We have seized two foreigners and three Afghans -- two of them
interpreters, one of them a driver -- on the road between Nimroz
and Farah," said Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi.


"They are in our custody now and our leadership will decide their
fate."


He said the foreigners were a French man and a French woman.


The Afghan interior ministry told AFP earlier the missing French
nationals and Afghan driver, cook and guard had been travelling
from the southwestern province of Nimroz northwards to Farah.


An Italian journalist was last month kidnapped by the Taliban in
Helmand province, which adjoins Nimroz, and released two weeks
later after the government handed back five Taliban prisoners.


Critics of the deal that freed Mastrogiacomo said his exchange
for Taliban would encourage copycat kidnappings by militants as
well as criminals.


The extremists are still holding an Afghan reporter, Ajmal
Naqshbandi, captured with Italian Daniele Mastrogiacomo on March
5. They beheaded a driver snatched at the same time.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah has threatened through the
media to kill the Afghan unless the government released two more
Taliban prisoners.


Ahmadi told AFP earlier Wednesday that the movement had handed to
negotiators a list of its men in prison whom it wanted released
in exchange Naqshbandi.


"The negotiations are ongoing. It has been very successful. Our
leaders have given a list of our friends being held in government
jails," he said.


Large parts of southern Afghanistan are out of the control of the
authorities and under the influence of the Taliban movement,
which uses recruitment videos that show the beheading of foreign
and Afghan "spies."


About a dozen Afghan and Italian journalists met in the Afghan
capital Kabul Wednesday to appeal to the Taliban to release
Naqshbandi.


"We journalists can never be considered prisoners of war. Our
mission, instead, is to report objectively the Afghan process,"
National Union of Journalists president Fazel Sancharaki said at
the meeting.


The deal that freed Mastrogiacomo was criticised by various
governments, notably the United States and Britain, and even the
Afghan Foreign Minister Rangin Dadfar Spanta.


Karzai's office said the move was an "exceptional measure" that
would not be repeated.


The French foreign ministry said in Paris earlier Wednesday it
had been informed by Terre d'Enfance that it had lost contact
with the two French nationals on Tuesday and they had not reached
their destination.


They had been setting up a women's group in the Nimroz capital of
Zaranj.


"Police have launched a search and investigation," Afghan
interior ministry spokesman Zemarai Bashary told AFP.

