

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has earned a reputation for
colourful language and bold gestures but never has he created
such a shock as with his sudden liberation of the 15 British
sailors.


Ahmadinejad -- seen outside Iran as a hardliner but who prefers
to present himself as a devout Muslim who extends the hand of
love to all peoples -- appeared to revel in the astonishment
caused by the wholly unexpected announcement.


"The media bomb of Ahmadinejad surprised the entire world," state
television said in its evening news bulletin.


Not that Ahmadinejad, 50, is unaccustomed to shocks. He created
the biggest upset in the Islamic republic's political history by
coming from nowhere to become president in the first place.


The 2005 election saw Ahmadinejad, then mayor of Tehran, written
off as an ultra-conservative no-hoper but then trounce better
known conservative rivals in the first round and former president
Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in the second.


Since taking power he has taken Iran into an intensifying
standoff with the West over Tehran nuclear programme, infuriating
its enemies and even critics at home with his use of colourful
and provocative language.


Most recently, he earned widespread rebukes in the reformist and
conservative press for a speech comparing Iran's nuclear
programme to a train "without brakes and reverse gear."


He has attempted to take his message -- a distinctive combination
of nationalism, religious ideals and an anti-Western world view
to the people -- in a succession of speeches in provincial towns
up and down the country.


In these tours he pursues a frenetic schedule of four speeches a
day in different towns, addressing crowds of thousands and
promising to improve their economic situation.


However such promises have been condemned by many economists, who
accuse the president of pursuing expansionary policies with high
spending that risk fuelling inflation.


His statements on foreign affairs have also been marked by
provocative comments that have sometimes caused outrage in the
West.


Most notoriously, he said at a conference on Zionism shortly
after being elected president that Israel should be "wiped off
the map" and then followed this up by saying that the Holocaust
was a "myth."


Last year, the president ordered the foreign ministry to hold a
conference on the Holocaust that saw some of the most
controversial "revisionist" historians of the slaughter invited
to Iran and feted as leading academics.


Ahmadinejad has also raised eyebrows with his penchant for direct
contact with world leaders, writing letters to US President
George W. Bush and German Chancellor Angela Merkel that were
scoffed at by Washington and Berlin.


He even went so far as to challenge Bush to a televised debate
when he visited New York for the United Nations General Assembly
last year, but the White House refused the proposal.


However Ahmadinejad has not realised fears that he would wind
back the cautious social reforms imposed by his reformist
predecessor Mohammad Khatami and fulfil a pre-election promise to
install revolutionary fervour.


Ahamdinejad presents himself as a man of the people -- normally
casually dressed in just a shirt and jacket although for
Wednesday's news conference he wore a smart light-coloured suit.


The son of a blacksmith, he was born into a poor village in
Semnan province outside Tehran but moved to the capital at an
early age and won a PhD in traffic management.


An Islamist student -- although speculation he was involved in
the 444 day siege of the US embassy is denied -- Ahmadinejad rose
through the revolutionary ranks to become governor of the
northern Ardebil province and then Tehran mayor.

