

Taiwan's new de facto envoy to the United States on Wednesday
pledged to push for a free trade agreement with Washington after
South Korea forged its own deal.


Joseph Wu, the outgoing chairman of Taiwan's top China policy-
making body, the Mainland Affairs Council, said he feared the
island could be marginalised if an increasing number of Asian
countries signed such agreements with the United States.


"Given the similar competitiveness between Taiwan and South
Korea, I'm afraid a lot of trade opportunities (due with Taiwan)
would go to South Korea," Wu told reporters during a farewell
ceremony.


"Taiwan is likely to be marginalised," Wu said, echoing worries
here.


Taiwan is desperate for a free trade pact with the United States,
its key investor and trading partner and top arms provider, to
avoid economic isolation.


But Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia turned down
Taiwan's proposal for a free trade agreement (FTA) in the near
future during a trip to Taipei last year, saying there was a lot
of work to do before such a pact could be struck.


Bhatia, the most senior US official to visit the island, called
on Taipei to better enforce intellectual property rights laws,
further open its agricultural sector to American products, and
continue the modernisation of the financial sector.


Many countries do not officially recognise Taiwan and have
diplomatic relations only with China, which considers Taiwan a
breakaway province despite burgeoning trade with the island
separated by a narrow strait.


Taipei has free trade agreements with Panama, Guatemala and
Nicaragua and last year completed negotiations for pacts with El
Salvador and Honduras.


While admitting that "both Taiwan and the United States need to
do some adjustments to sign an FTA," Wu insisted that Taiwan has
not been fairly treated.


Taking the US-South Korea agreement as an example, Wu said "I
could not figure out why there is a lack of a similar agreement
despite closer Taipei-Washington ties."


Resolutions have been adopted in the US Congress and at least 39
of 50 US state legislatures supporting an FTA with Taiwan, but
the US administration and business community are reluctant to
pursue it with vigour because it may cause problems with China.


Washington does not recognise Taiwan, which Beijing regards as
part of its territory awaiting to be reunified by force if
necessary.


Wu, due to assume his post on April 14, will be the first member
of the independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party to serve
as representative to the US. His predecessors have been from the
main opposition Kuomintang.

