

Britain hailed Wednesday Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's
surprise announcement that Tehran is to free 15 captured sailors,
while their relieved relatives erupted in joy.


But officials also said they were trying to find out exactly when
and how they would be released, as Iran said that the group would
be flying out of the country on Thursday.


"We welcome what the president has said about the release of our
15 personnel. We are now trying to establish exactly what this
means in terms of the method and timing of their release," a
Downing Street spokesman told AFP.


Asked whether any conditions had been attached to the release,
and about Ahmadinejad's claim that Britain had promised no repeat
of such incidents in a letter, he declined to comment.


Families of the released sailors and marines could not contain
their excitement at the news.


"It's the best Easter present for us all," Ray Cooper, uncle of
Adam Sperry, one of the detainees, said on BBC television.


"It's just all ended up brilliant."


April Rawsthorne, grandmother of fellow captive Nathan Summers,
told Sky News television from a hotel bar in Cornwall, south-west
England: "Nathan, what can I say? We just want you home and we'll
celebrate. Thank the Lord everything has turned out well for
them."


Her husband Brian added: "He's gone from a boy to a man in these
last weeks. He looks a million dollars."


The eight sailors and seven marines were captured on March 23.


Britain insisted they were in Iraqi territorial waters, while
Tehran said they were in Iranian waters.


Britain pursued quiet diplomacy for the first few days, but after
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett hit a dead end in talks with
her Iraqi counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki on March 27, London's
patience snapped.


London gave a military briefing on its version of events the
following day and Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to ratchet up
the pressure on Tehran.


Hints of a resolution started emerging only as late as Tuesday,
when Blair said that the coming 48 hours would be crucial in
efforts to ensure the sailors' release.


Later that day, Iran's top security official Ali Larijani held
talks with Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Sir Nigel
Sheinwald which yielded a statement from Downing Street saying
both sides favoured an "early resolution."


But Ahmadinejad's announcement of the group's release at a press
conference Wednesday took even the most seasoned observers by
surprise.


William Hague, foreign affairs spokesman for Britain's main
opposition Conservative Party, welcomed the news, saying: "I'm
sure their families and the whole country are greatly relieved
and we look forward to welcoming them home quickly and safely."


Former British foreign secretary Lord David Owen, who held office
from 1977-79, told Sky News the release could be a sign Iran
wanted to "turn over a new leaf."


He hoped that Ahmadinejad would now improve relations with
Britain and the United States and help stabilise Iraq.


"He's a hardliner. We shouldn't delude ourselves. But it's a good
step," he added.


But Mehdi Varzi, an Iranian ex-diplomat, cautioned that Iran
still felt under siege from the West.


"Iran wants to be recognised and seen as an actor in the area and
not ignored," he said. "The message is that the Iran leadership
has felt at the receiving end of the world in the last few
years."

