

Democrat newcomer Barack Obama raked in 25 million dollars for
his presidential bid in three months, almost matching Hillary
Clinton and dashing for now her hopes of an easy path to the
party's nomination.


"The Obama for America campaign today announced that it will
report raising at least 25 million dollars from more than 100,000
people in the first quarter of 2007, with at least 23.5 million
dollars eligible to be spent in the Democratic primary," his
campaign said in a statement Wednesday.


"This overwhelming response, in only a few short weeks, shows the
hunger for a different kind of politics in this country and a
belief at the grassroots level that Barack Obama can bring out
the best in America to solve our problems", said Obama for
America Finance Chair Penny Pritzker.


The Obama campaign raised 6.9 million dollars over the Internet
from more than 50,000 donors, the campaign added.


The remarkable results in the dash for cash, given Clinton's
influence in the party establishment, put the two senators in a
neck-and-neck race for now, with Obama aiming to be the first
black president, and Clinton the first woman elected to the
country's highest office.


Obama's numbers push the total figure raised by candidates well
past 100 million dollars, in what could be the United States'
first billion-dollar election.


Piling up fundraising dollars before a first-quarter 2007
fundraising deadline has been seen as a leading barometer of a
candidate's strength.


Clinton, seeking to maximize her front-runners' edge, smashed
records by raking in 26 million dollars and added 10 million from
her Senate account.


Among Republicans, former Massachusetts governor Romney sprung a
surprise, raising more than 20 million dollars and dealing a
severe blow to rival Senator John McCain, who raised 12.5 million
dollars.


Romney's success has thrust him squarely into the top tier of
Republican candidates, and raised questions about the prospects
for McCain, who looked for months to be the party's heir apparent
but tied his fate to support for Bush's unpopular policies in
Iraq.


Giuliani, running on his cool-headed leadership as New York mayor
during the September 11 attacks in 2001, was happy with his 15
million-dollar take despite a late start fund raising.

