

Thailand on Wednesday blocked the popular video-sharing website
YouTube after it carried a clip seen as insulting the country's
revered king, a government official said.


Vissanu Meeyoo, spokesman at Thailand's communications ministry,
said they had asked YouTube to remove a video clip considered
offensive to King Bhumibol Adulyadej, but no action had been
taken.


"We have been blocking the website since this morning, after we
found that it was very insulting to His Majesty the King,"
Vissanu told AFP.


"We have asked YouTube to remove the clip, but we have had no
cooperation. If they remove the clip, we will consider lifting
the ban," he added.


The move comes a week after Thailand jailed a Swiss citizen for
10 years for insulting the king by vandalising his portraits
during a drunken spree.


The 44-second YouTube clip shows images of the king, crudely
altered on a graphics program, which flash on the screen to the
tune of the Thai national anthem.


One image shows the monarch next to a photograph of feet, which
are considered the lowest part of the body in Buddhism. Such
juxtaposition would be hugely offensive in Thailand, a mainly
Buddhist country.


The profile of the YouTube user who posted the clip lists his
location as the United States. YouTube is owned by Internet giant
Google, and has a monthly audience of more than 70 million
viewers.


Thailand's king, almost universally adored by Thais, is the
world's longest- reigning monarch, and one of the few who is
still protected by tough laws that prohibit any insult to the
royal family.


Portraits of the monarch, who will be 80 this December, hang in
every public building and shrines to him dot the sidewalks in
major cities.


Oliver Jufer, 57, of Switzerland, pleaded guilty to five counts
of lese majeste -- the crime of offending the dignity of a
sovereign -- last Thursday for defacing several portraits of the
king in the northern city of Chiang Mai.


The nation's censors routinely block websites that contain
foreign news reports or online discussions about the monarchy.
Foreign books and movies seen as critical of the king are also
banned here.


Vissanu said the information ministry was considering taking
action against other websites that carried links to the video
clip.

