

Bookstores have become a key battleground in the last mile of the
French presidential race, with a record 110 titles hitting the
shelves, from nuts-and- bolts analysis of the issues to intimate
confessions from the candidates themselves.


Bad news for the Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, currently
second in the polls: a virulent attack on her campaign and
personality, written by a senior defector from her party,
currently tops national sales across all categories.


"Who knows Madame Royal?" by the Socialists' former economics
chief Eric Besson, who resigned in a row over the financing of
Royal's campaign promises, describes the candidate as a glory-
hunting populist.


The first 50,000 copies flew off the shelves within weeks of
publication last month and a second print-run has been ordered.


Royal hit back last week with the release of a book of interviews
with the French editor of Elle magazine, an A to Z of French
politics in which she talks about her family, feminism and
political life.


Sales figures for Royal's book, "Maintenant" (Now) were not yet
available, but its release followed a first aborted project: a
much-awaited book based on interactive debates on her website,
which never materialised.


Book sales have mirrored the fortunes of the main candidates: a
book by the centrist Francois Bayrou, "Project of Hope", shot
into the best-seller charts last month as he emerged as a
possible "Third Man" in the race. As his poll figures have
levelled off, so have sales of his book.


Right-wing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy stole a march on his
rivals with the release last summer of a political autobiography
called "Testimony", which has sold at least 160,000 copies
nationwide -- 300,000 according to his editor.


On Monday the candidate for the governing UMP party released a
new book called "Ensemble" (Together), presented as a "letter to
the French" and aimed at rallying undecided voters to his camp.


The book's publication was pulled forward to appear in time for
Easter weekend -- when his party hopes "the campaign will
cristallise around family dinner tables" -- and it will be put on
sale at markets around the country.


With a high proportion of French voters unsure who to back in the
April 22 first round -- 46 percent said recently they had yet to
make up their mind -- the candidates hope a good turn-of-phrase
could just make the difference.

