

A top US commander predicted Friday intensifying fighting and
more casualties as US and Iraqi forces move into sanctuaries used
by Al-Qaeda to mount major terror bombings in Baghdad.


"As we have surged, we find the enemy surging as well," said
Major General Rick Lynch, who commands an area in central Iraq
that wraps around southern Baghdad.


"We are taking the fight to the enemy to counter his
capabilities, but over time, especially as we continue to put our
forces in areas where they have never operated we can expect to
take continued casualties," he said.


Thirteen US soldiers under Lynch's command were killed and 39
wounded last month, mainly as a result of roadside bombs,
according to the general, who said the number of attacks in his
area has increased.


He said Al-Qaeda and associated extremist groups were the biggest
threat but Iranian-made arms and munitions, including armor-
piercing shaped explosives, were also turning up in his area.


As a buildup of US forces peaks this summer, Lynch said US troops
will press in on sanctuaries that extremist groups have succeeded
in establishing in the area, setting the stage for more intense
fighting.


"When these surge units get on the ground, we're going to move to
control those sanctuaries and that is going to come at cost," he
told reporters here via video linkup from Iraq.


"So everybody has to acknowledge the fact that this still is a
very difficult, very dangerous situation that we're working
through on a daily basis," he said.


He said the biggest concern is that Al-Qaeda will step up its
campaign of large scale car bombings and suicide attacks to try
to fuel Sunni-Shia sectarian violence.


On Sunday, a massive car bombing in the Shiite shrine city of
Karbala killed more than 70 people.


"He's not going to give up, he's not going to give those
sanctuary areas up without a fight. So there's a fight that's
fixing to happen in those sanctuary areas," Lynch said of Al-
Qaeda.


At the same time, he charged that Iran was providing Shiite
extremist groups with financing, training and explosively formed
penetrators, or EFPs.


"The EFPs are killing our soldiers and we can trace that back to
Iran," he said.


He said US and Iraqi forces found mortars, rockets and ammunition
with recent date stamps and Iranian markings in a raid April 22
in the town of Mahmudiya.

