

A UN conference on nuclear non-proliferation was saved from
collapse Friday when delegates agreed to consider adopting a text
to meet Iranian concerns that it might be targetted at the
meeting.


The chairman of the stalled conference on strengthening the Non-
Proliferation Treaty (NPT) had tried to assure Iran, which is
under UN sanctions over fears it seeks nuclear weapons, that it
was not the object of an agenda item calling for full compliance
with the pact.


But the Iranian ambassador held to objections that have
deadlocked the two-week gathering of the 189-nation NPT, the
world's fundamental agreement against the spread of atomic
weapons, since it opened on Monday.


A breakdown was avoided when non-aligned state South Africa
proposed the adoption of an explanatory text, soothing Iranian
concerns, saying that disarmament as well as compliance with NPT
rules against diverting peaceful nuclear uses to military ends
would be discussed.


Iran feels it is being singled out as it is currently defying UN
Security Council calls for it to suspend uranium enrichment, and
is in fact expanding its nuclear program despite sanctions from
the Council.


The proposal is to be considered when the meeting resumes Monday.


Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh said: "We are going to
reflect it (the proposal) to capital (Tehran) and then reflect
our position on Monday."


The chairman, Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano, had told the
conference that he would not change the draft agenda -- which
needs to be adopted for work on improving the NPT to begin -- and
which reaffirms the need for "full compliance" with the treaty.


In a gesture to Iran, Amano made a statement that "full
compliance" should be understood to mean compliance with "all"
NPT provisions but he declined to change the wording in the
agenda.


Soltanieh objected to the agenda when Amano later tried to have
it passed by consensus and said Amano had in fact admitted to the
importance of it being changed to read "full compliance with all
provisions."


The European Union and Canada objected to this, saying the agenda
had already been worked out after extensive pre-conference
consultations by Amano and that substantive discussions should
begin on fixing the NPT.


Soltanieh then said that the United States, the leader in
accusing Iran of secretly developing nuclear weapons, was behind
the emphasis on compliance.


But a Western diplomat said the US delegation was taking a low
profile at the meeting and watching developments without
interfering.


Soltanieh argues that emphasising compliance with all NPT
provisions would push states possessing nuclear weapons to keep
their promises on disarmament, rather than having the meeting
just criticize Iran over violations of the treaty's nuclear
safeguards.


The conference is the first of a series preparing for a 2010
review conference on amendments to the NPT, which many feel needs
to be reinforced in order to handle the nuclear crises in Iran
and North Korea.


Diplomats are concerned that the Vienna meeting could collapse
due to the same procedural wrangling that caused the last review
conference in New York in May 2005 to fail to make progress.


"Iran is trying to undermine this conference, this treaty,
because they understand that the treaty will be an occasion to
blame them," a European diplomat said.


Iran is isolated as most non-aligned states and Western powers
accept the agenda but a consensus is needed from the 130 states
attending the NPT conference. Syria and Venezuela backed Iran's
objections to the agenda.

