

Europe led demands for a deal to slash global greenhouse gas
emissions after the UN's top scientific panel on Friday said
early, deep cuts could avert long-term climate damage -- and at a
modest cost.


In a statement shortly after the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) published its report, EU Environment
Commissioner Stavros Dimas called for a breakthrough in efforts
to shape a successor to the Kyoto Protocol.


"Negotiations on a new global climate change agreement must be
launched at the next UN ministerial conference in December,"
Dimas said.


"It is now time for the rest of the international community to
follow our lead and commit to ambitious reduction targets."


The 27 EU countries have vowed to cut their emissions of heat-
trapping carbon gases by 20 percent by 2020, compared to 1990
levels. It has offered to deepen this to 30 percent if other
major polluters follow suit.


The IPCC report, released in Bangkok Friday, laid out a menu of
options for limiting emissions, adding that cleaner fuels, more
efficient technology and confirmed policy options were all
available for achieving this goal.


Under one of its scenarios, to keep warming to 2.0-2.4 C (3.6-4.3
F) over pre- industrial times, emissions would have to peak by
2015 and reduce to 50-85 percent of 2000 levels by 2050. Yet the
cost would shave only around 0.12 percentage points off annual
global economic growth.


The Kyoto Protocol, the only global agreement that sets specific
targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, expires at the end
of 2012.


Talks on renewing the deal are under way, with the next big round
scheduled to take place on the Indonesian resort island of Bali
in December.


But progress faces two big stumbling blocks -- the absence of the
United States, the world's No.1 polluter, from the present
treaty; and the reluctance of China, India, Brazil and other big
developing countries to be drawn into promising targeted
emissions cuts.


Under the present Kyoto format, only industrialised countries,
which are most to blame for global warming, make these pledges.


Germany, which is current president of the EU and Group of Eight
(G8), on Friday said the IPCC report showed "climate catastrophe
is not inevitable. We can prevent it."


"It's important that we set the right course at the climate
conference in Bali. Science has done its work, now politics must
do its work," said Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel.


The head of Kyoto's parent organisation said the Bangkok report
clearly showed climate change could be addressed at a reasonable
cost.


"We can tackle the issue, limit and reduce the CO2 emissions
without destroying the world economy," Yvo de Boer, the head of
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), told a
press conference in Berlin.


"The report gives a very encouraging signal that we have at our
disposal the technologies. With these options we have a chance of
preventing some of the most catastrophic scenarios," de Boer
said.


In contrast, the rhetoric in Washington was low-key and
businesslike.


The US government voiced support for the IPCC document as a
report that would help policymakers "make more informed
decisions" and said the United States had been an "active and
constructive participant" in Bangkok.


It gave no indicator as to whether Washington would shift its
opposition to emissions caps, which the EU champions.


Green groups, meanwhile, seized on the IPCC report as
confirmation that carbon pollution could be tackled affordably.


Stephan Singer, European head of climate and energy with the
conservation organisation WWF, said the report showed "for the
first time that stopping climate pollution in a very ambitious
way does not cost a fortune."


"There is no excuse for any government to argue that it is going
to cause their economy to collapse," he said.


"We now have very, very clear options on how to deal with climate
change," said Stephanie Tunmore, a Greenpeace climate and energy
campaigner.


"By introducing measures and investment that will stimulate
sustainable renewable energy and energy efficiency, governments
can help to achieve cuts in global emissions by 50 percent by
2050," said Friends of the Earth's Catherine Pearce.

