

European basketball champions CSKA Moscow will take on Greek
hosts Panathinaikos in Sunday's Euroleague final in Athens,
aiming for a second straight shot at the continent's top honours.


The Russians edged out Spain's Unicaja Malaga 62-50 on Friday in
the first of two semi-finals that tipped off the Athens Final
Four.


In the second semi-final, Panathinaikos held off Spain's Tau
Ceramica 67-53 in front of a boisterous home crowd of around
13,000 Greek fans.


The Greek side dominated for most of the game, keeping the
Basques at bay on the strength of shooting accuracy and quick
passing, which gave them points on the fast break.


Urged on by a few hundred fans and a brass band, Tau cut the
deficit to six points early in the fourth quarter but could get
no closer.


CSKA are looking for their sixth European championship, having
also won prior versions of the competition in 1961, 1963, 1969
and 1971.


Panathinaikos won the title in 1996, 2000 and 2002.


The final will be a duel between two of the continent's top
coaches, CSKA's three-time winner Ettore Messina of Italy and
Panathinaikos' Serbian coach Zeljko Obradovic, who is the
tournament record-holder with five wins, two of them with the
Greeks.


The Russians were made to sweat for most of their Friday semi-
final against underdogs Unicaja, who had never played in a
Euroleague Final Four before and lacked their injured top scorer
and rebounder, center Daniel Santiago.


The two teams went into the fourth quarter evenly matched at 44
points, but CSKA stole away with dogged defence in the closing
minutes, building an 11-point lead that they clung onto to the
end.


"We missed good shots, well-created shots by players by normally
make them," said Unicaja coach Sergio Scariolo.


"I think we won the game because we played excellent defence,"
said CSKA coach Ettore Messina, congratulating the Spanish side
for "the aggression, the toughness, the heart they put into the
game".


Taunting reporters who were expecting an upset against the
unfancied Spaniards, Messina added, "no upsets this year, you
will get one next year."


American guard Trajan Langdon led the Russians with 13 points and
Australian center David Andersen added 12 points and nine
rebounds.


Spanish guard Carlos Cabezas was the top Unicaja scorer with 13
points.


Europe's version of the NBA, the Euroleague brings together 24
clubs from the continent and broader region, including teams from
Spain, Italy, Greece, France, Turkey and Israel.

