

The London stock market, which this week enjoyed strong gains,
will focus on takeovers and a probable interest rate hike when
investors return to their desks on Tuesday after a holiday
weekend.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares finished at 6,603.70
points on Friday, up 185 points or 2.88 percent from a week
earlier. It was the FTSE's highest closing level since September
8, 2000.


British share prices have fizzed higher in recent days on a
cocktail of takeover news and speculation.


The big winner was Reuters, the British news and information
giant, whose share price went into orbit after the group on
Friday revealed a takeover approach from an unnamed suitor, with
Canadian group Thomson in the frame according to analysts.


The Reuters announcement came just three days after Rupert
Murdoch's News Corp. launched a shock bid for the British
company's US rival Dow Jones.


News of the approach for Reuters sent the British company's share
price surging more than 30 percent on Friday. At the close of
trade, Reuters' stock market capitalisation stood at 7.7 billion
pounds (11.3 billion euros, 15.3 billion dollars).


The share price of British building materials group Hanson also
soared this week after HeidelbergCement, Germany's leading cement
maker, said it was considering a takeover offer.


And EMI stock leapt higher after the troubled music publisher
confirmed that it had received a number of preliminary takeover
approaches.


Another focus is the ongoing battle for control of ABN Amro,
which has pitted British banks Barclays and the Royal Bank of
Scotland against each other in the multi-billion-dollar bidding
war.


Aside from the latest takeover talk, investors will zero in next
week on an interest rate call from the Bank of England (BoE).


"An interest rate hike next Thursday by the Bank of England is
inevitable," said Global Insight analyst Howard Archer, adding
that the only uncertainty was by how much the central bank would
hike rates from the current 5.25 percent.


Most analysts are forecasting that the BoE will raise borrowing
costs by a quarter-point.


The BoE had kept British interest rates at 5.25 percent in April.


However, official data subsequently revealed that annual British
inflation had surged to 3.1 percent in March.


The news forced BoE governor Mervyn King to write an
unprecedented letter to British finance minister Gordon Brown,
explaining why annual inflation had breached a government-set
ceiling of 3.0 percent.


The central bank is tasked by the British government with keeping
inflation within a 1.0-percent band either side of a 2.0-percent
target.

