

British media giant Reuters reported a takeover approach Friday,
sending its share price soaring just three days after tycoon
Rupert Murdoch launched a shock bid for another major financial
news group, Dow Jones.


The Globe and Mail, a Canadian newspaper, said Canada-based
Thomson Corporation was the group in talks to buy Reuters in a
rapidly consolidating media market.


The paper, with close historical links to Thomson, added that the
bid was not in reaction to the offer by Murdoch's News Corp. for
Reuters' US rival Dow Jones.


News of the approach for Reuters sent the British company's share
price surging more than 30 percent on Friday. At the close of
trade, Reuters' stock market capitalisation stood at 7.7 billion
pounds (11.3 billion euros, 15.3 billion dollars).


Later, the Financial Times reported that the battle "took a turn"
on Friday night when Reuters appeared willing to recommend" the
offer from Thomson.


But the  FT said success of the bid "success will hinge on
whether the two sides can convince directors of the Founders
Share Company, a body set up to safeguard Reuters' independence,
that its editorial integrity would not be compromised."


Media industry experts speculated that if not Thomson, then
Reuters' mystery suitor could be US Internet titan Google or the
private equity sector.


"The board of Reuters confirms it has received a preliminary
approach from a third party which may or may not lead to an offer
being made," the group said in a statement.


Takeover rumours have gripped the global media sector this week
following News Corp.'s surprise five-billion-dollar bid on
Tuesday for the Dow Jones Company, which owns The Wall Street
Journal.


Reuters, best known as a global news and picture agency and
headed by chief executive Tom Glocer, derives most of its revenue
from selling financial news and data.


The boom in the investment banking industry over the past few
years has helped it recover from a torrid couple of years after
the post-2001 downturn in the global economy.


Reuters shares surged as high as 649.75 pence on the news, before
pulling back to stand at 615.75 pence at the London close, a one-
day gain of 25.09 percent.


Reuters' key competitors for financial news are US rivals Dow
Jones and Bloomberg, and Canadian group Thomson Financial --
which bought financial news provider AFX from international news
agency AFP last year.


"The talk is mainly Thomson. But Google is also in the frame,"
said a dealer at a major US broker, who asked not to be named.


Thomson Financial's chief source of revenues is market data,
which is also a major part of Reuters' business.


Reuters was created in 1851 by German-born Paul Julius Reuter who
started out by using pigeons to fly stock prices between Aachen
in Germany and Brussels.


The group's constitution aims to protect the company from a
hostile takeover bid.


According to Reuters, a "single golden share" is held by The
Reuters Founder Share Co., which is operated by 15 trustees
tasked with ensuring the "independence, impartiality, integrity
and freedom from bias" of the group.


The single share carries 30 percent of voting rights, meaning
that the trustees can block any hostile takeover bid.


The constitution also prohibits any single shareholder from
holding more than 15.0 percent of the company's issued capital.


However, an agreed takeover bid is possible, according to the
group's website.


The biggest single shareholder in Reuters is financial services
group Schroders which owns a 7.9-percent stake.


This week has seen big share price gains across the entire
European media sector, with French media and technology group
Lagardere and British publisher Pearson gaining on the back of
the Dow Jones and Reuters news.


Reuters is reaping the rewards of a strategic programme called
Core Plus -- Glocer's plan to take the company into higher growth
products and emerging markets such as China and India.


In 2006, the company's pre-tax profit jumped by almost a third to
313 million pounds compared with the previous year, while
revenues grew 6.5 percent to 2.6 billion pounds.


Reuters employs around 16,900 staff in 94 countries across the
world.

