

Celebrity socialite Paris Hilton was given a 45-day prison
sentence by a Los Angeles court here Friday after being found
guilty of a parole violation.


The 26-year-old heiress to the Hilton hotel empire will begin her
sentence on June 5, the court ruled, following a packed three-
hour hearing at the Metropolitan Court House.


Hilton's parole violation conviction came after she was caught
driving on a suspended license following her no contest plea to
drink-driving.


Prosecutors had warned on Thursday they would seek a jail
sentence, but despite the prospect of a custodial sentence,
Hilton kept the court waiting on Friday, arriving for her hearing
at least 15 minutes late.


Soberly dressed in a dark suit with a white blouse, with her
blonde hair swept back in a pony tail, Hilton did not comment as
she arrived, running a gauntlet of around 60 paparazzi and
reporters.


Builders on a construction site opposite the court-house shouted
"Jail time!" to dozens of television crews and photographers who
ringed the building in downtown Los Angeles.


Satellite television trucks crowded side streets and local news
crews hovered overhead in helicopters, to complete a surreal
scene at the court, which normally deals with minor traffic
violations.


Prosecutors told the court Hilton had been stopped in her
190,000-dollar Bentley Continental GTC on January 15 by
California Highway Patrol and told that she was not allowed to be
driving.


On that occasion, Hilton signed a police statement acknowledging
that she was not supposed to drive, and she was let off with an
informal warning.


But just over a month later she was hauled over again in
Hollywood when spotted driving at night with her headlights off.


Hilton's spokesman said his client was unaware she was violating
her parole -- but prosecutors dismissed that line of argument,
citing the earlier brush with traffic police in January.


Hilton had lost her license for alcohol-related reckless driving
and was given 36 months probation.


The charges stemmed from her September 7 arrest after she was
found driving her Mercedes with an alcohol level equal to the
legal limit.


Court documents described her decision to repeatedly keep driving
as a "flagrant" violation of court orders and demanded that she
be given a custodial sentence.


They also alleged Hilton failed to enroll in an alcohol education
program within 21 days of the order directing her to do so.


A favorite target for tabloid gossip and the paparazzi, Hilton
appeared in the reality television series "The Simple Life," and
in 2003 an unauthorized sex video with her former boyfriend
appeared on the Internet.


She ventured into music last year with a debut album and has had
cameo roles in a handful of films, including the 2005 horror film
"House of Wax."

