

World oil prices headed lower Friday for the fifth straight
trading session, despite declining US oil reserves and a rash of
kidnappings in major crude producer Nigeria.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, fell 1.26 dollars to close at 61.93 dollars per
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
dropped 74 cents to finish at 65.31 dollars per barrel.


Oil prices have shed more than four dollars per barrel in New
York since last Friday, or nearly seven percent of their value.
They have lost three dollars in London, a decline of 4.5 percent.


Analysts said traders were focusing for an expected production
ramp-up.


"Crude managed another new low for the move on Thursday, but
seemed to stall right at that point, which may suggest that the
downward momentum of the last several days is running out," Mike
Fitzpatrick of Man Financial said.


"The Nigerian situation could be a very important swing factor
for prices in the coming weeks," he said.


Investors are monitoring the latest developments in Nigeria,
Africa's biggest oil exporter, where armed men have this week
abducted at least 20 foreigners in three separate incidents.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks on pipelines.


Meanwhile, dealers said US gasoline stockpiles remained in focus
ahead of the US holiday driving season, which starts later this
month.


US gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million
last week and are down 34.1 million barrels or 15 percent since
early February, according to data published this week by the US
Department of Energy (DoE).


Despite last week's smaller-than-expected drop, it was the 12th
weekly decline in a row for gasoline stocks.


Drivers in the United States were feeling the pinch, with
gasoline prices topping three dollars a gallon Friday, the
highest level in nearly a year, according to a leading automobile
association.


The Automobile Association of America said the average price at
the pump was 3.012 dollars Friday.


Gasoline prices have surged higher in recent weeks, rising as
much as 15 percent in April in the New York market, amid refinery
breakdowns and maintenance work that has hampered gasoline
production in the United States.


The DoE added that American refineries had ratcheted up their
gasoline production last week, with capacity utilisation
increasing by a half point from the prior week to 88.3 percent.


"There is some market expectation that US refinery operating
rates will increase and the tightness in the gasoline market will
be relieved,"  said Victor Shum, an analyst with energy
consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


He added that a US government announcement Wednesday that it
would halt buying crude for its strategic petroleum reserve
(SPR), possibly for several months, could put downward pressure
on prices.


Despite concerns over stockpiles, oil producers cartel OPEC on
Wednesday said it saw no need to increase output, even as the
International Energy Agency, the consumer watchdog, stressed the
need to pump more crude.

