

If Chelsea lose their Premiership title at Arsenal on Sunday Jose
Mourinho will be able to look to the opposing bench for an
unlikely shoulder to cry on.


Mourinho might be in need of some sympathy if Chelsea's dismal
week ends with Arsenal dealing a fatal blow to their slender
hopes of overhauling leaders Manchester United.


United can extend their advantage over Chelsea to eight points by
beating Manchester City on Saturday but, regardless of that
result, Mourinho's side need to win against Arsenal to keep the
title race alive.


There is no love lost between the two London clubs and, after
being on the receiving end of Mourinho's acerbic tongue several
times, it would be no surprise if Gunners manager Arsene Wenger
was relishing the chance to kick Chelsea while they are down.


But Wenger insists he can relate to Mourinho's misery after a
traumatic five days that saw Chelsea lose more ground to United
and then suffer a heartbreaking Champions League semi-final exit
against Liverpool.


After all, Wenger saw Arsenal's season disintergrate within two
weeks as they lost the League Cup final to Chelsea and then
crashed out of the FA Cup and Champions League.


"They are certainly disappointed because it's a terrible blow to
go out of the Champions League," Wenger said. "The feeling that
you are on a high and living in a world with a lot of
expectations suddenly goes and it's a very big blow.


"I do have sympathy for them. Players are players and you always
understand how painful it is to go out of the competitions - that
applies to players, coaches or whoever."


Wenger believes Mourinho will find it hard to lift his players
after the massive blow of effectively conceding two trophies in
such a short space of time.


"In the League Cup final we could have scored the second goal but
we didn't," he said. "The effect of that was terrible. From that
game, we lost Emmanuel Adebayor and Kolo Toure to suspension, we
went out of the FA Cup three days later and then we were under
tremendous pressure against PSV Eindhoven and in one minute it
was over.


"We played our whole season in that one game and it was terrible
for us. It is impossible to say how long it will take Chelsea to
recover.


"I think it took us three weeks to recover. We played our games
to win but there was something not there in our play. Many teams
just collapse when they go out of the Champions League."


Ashley Cole's first return to Arsenal since his acrimonious
departure in August will give this London derby an extra edge.


The England left-back can expect a torrid reception from Arsenal
fans angry at his departure to their bitter rivals. He was dubbed
"Cashley" because his excessive wage demands were at the root of
the move to Stamford Bridge, and Wenger admits he had no option
but to sell him.


"We made some mistakes which were psychological," Wenger said.
"At some stages, there was not enough desire on our part to
bridge the gap between him and us.


"He felt that we let him down but that was not our view. Letting
him go was the best way of dealing with that situation because if
you have a player who does not want to play for you then you
always give in."


While Chelsea are in danger of finishing the season on a low
note, Joe Cole is just glad to be back after knee and foot
injuries ruled him out for most of the campaign.


"I am really excited about the end of the season," he said. "But
for me the task is to get fully match fit and you only get that
from playing matches. There is simply no substitute.


"You just want to show desire every day, even when you're
injured. Many people didn't expect me to be playing against this
season but I wanted to prove them wrong, to come back and help
the lads.


"I hadn't played any football for five months when the manager
told me at half- time against Valencia in the Champions League
that I was going on. I can't tell you just how good that felt. It
was a bit like making your debut for a new club."

