

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe warned Zimbabwe's Catholic
bishops who have become increasingly critical of him that they
are treading a "dangerous path," according to reports published
on Friday.


Mugabe's comments, in the state-run Herald newspaper, come after
a pastoral letter was read out by bishops on Sunday calling for a
new people-driven constitution to avert bloodshed and mass
uprising.


"Once (the Bishops) turn political, we regard them as no longer
spiritual and our relations with them would be conducted as if we
are dealing with political entities and this is quite a dangerous
path they have chosen for themselves," Mugabe told the Herald.


The autocratic 83-year-old, himself a Catholic, is blamed for the
political and economic crisis that has reduced one of Africa's
success stories to a country in meltdown.


Zimbabwe has world-record inflation, joblessness hovering over 80
percent and chronic shortages of foreign currency, fuel and
cooking oil.


In their letter, the Catholic leaders said that the crisis in
Zimbabwe was "in essence, a crisis of governance and a crisis of
leadership apart from being a spiritual and moral crisis."


"If I had gone to church and the priest had read that so-called
pastoral letter, I would have stood up and said 'nonsense',"
Mugabe said, adding: "It is not something spiritual, it is not
religious, the bishops have decided to turn political".


Mugabe said he would talk to some of the bishops but attacked one
of his outspoken critics, Archbishop Pius Ncube of Bulawayo.


"He (Ncube) thinks he is close to God, that's why he says he is
praying for me to die. But unfortunately, God has not listened to
him for all this duration.


"I don't know how many times a day he is saying that prayer:
'Please God take that man, Robert Mugabe away from us'."


Mugabe addressed members of his ruling ZANU-PF party's central
committee meeting in Harare on Friday, saying, "They (Catholics)
should tell us what the new constitution will do that the present
constitution doesn't."


"They have gone wrong, sadly, very sadly, and this is an area we
warn them not to tread because it's a political area.


"They are wrong if they are going to ride on to the fact of the
so-called Archbishop of Matabeleland (bishop Ncube). I say 'so-
called' because a spiritual bishop, a man of religious virtue
will not kneel to pray for any other person to die," he said.

