

Russia and the United States have agreed to hold top-level
meetings of their defense and foreign ministers in a bid to
resolve an escalating dispute over US plans to put anti-missile
bases in eastern Europe, a senior US official said Friday.


"We have agreed to a Russian suggestion that the secretaries of
defense and state meet with their Russian counterparts and do so
in a so-called 2+2" format, Assistant Secretary of State Dan
Fried told reporters.


Fried said the first meeting was tentatively planned for around
September, though no dates had been set, and could be expanded to
include the two governments' national security advisers.


The Russians suggested the enhanced negotiations during a visit
to Moscow last month by Defense Secretary Robert Gates focussed
on addressing Russian concerns about US plans to station 10
missile interceptors in Poland and a tracking radar in the Czech
Republic.


Moscow has protested that the anti-missile shield posed a
strategic threat by undermining its own missile deterrence
capabilities.


Russian President Vladimir Putin, already angry over the
expansion of the US-led NATO alliance into former Soviet bloc
countries, escalated the dispute last week by announcing that
Russia was suspending compliance with a key Cold-War era defense
pact, the Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty.


Opposition Democrats in the US Congress have also questioned the
US plan, which would cost some 3.5 billion dollars and has yet to
be proven effective in the testing phase.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, during a meeting of NATO
and Russian foreign ministers in Oslo last week, dismissed the
Russian complaints as "ludicrous".


Washington says the anti-missile shield, which would not be
operational before 2012, is designed to shoot down ballistic
missiles, possibly tipped with nuclear weapons, that could in the
future be fired by Iran or other "rogue states."


She said the proposed European base would be far too limited in
size and capability to affect Russia's massive ballistic missile
arsenal.


Fried, who accompanied Gates to Moscow and Rice to Oslo, said the
Russian concerns were based on "a misunderstanding of the
limitations and capability" of the proposed east European sites
and on fears of how they could be expanded in future.


During the Moscow trip, Gates presented a wide-ranging proposal
for working together on missile defense, including technical
cooperation, systems integration and joint testing of components,
to convince the Russians the US project did not, and would not in
the future, represent a threat.


"There were all kinds of very specific elements and when the
Russians saw it, they were quite taken aback," he said. "They had
obviously not expected a proposal that was this far reaching and
this serious."


"They are perfectly capable of telling the difference between
empty words and real proposals, and they knew that this was
real," he said.


The two sides agreed to set up several working groups to explore
the missile defense and CFE matters, as well as other weapons
program issues, and their work will feed into the 2+2 meeting, he
said.


"The Russians came to us some time ago and said we really do need
to increase our stratetgic dialogue," he said.


"We agreed with them, and I think we're in the process of doing
that and were going to have quite a number of channels up and
running," he said.


The US plan also sparked concerns in Europe and remains unpopular
with the publics in both Poland and the Czech Republic.


The two governments have voiced support for the plan, although
formal negotiations with Washington on the details of deployment
have yet to begin.


NATO, at last week's ministerial meeting, voiced its support for
the project and for US efforts to draw Russia into the process.

