

Guinea's new prime minister held talks with the military on
Friday and pledged to try to find an end to the crisis after
soldiers protesting over unpaid wages shot dead two people and
wounded dozens.


"I have come, in the name of the head of state (President Lansana
Conte) to listen and learn what are your demands," Prime Minister
Lansana Kouyate said in footage of the meeting broadcast on
national television.


The experienced and respected international diplomat went into
talks after an extraordinary cabinet meeting was called Friday to
discuss the military crisis.


"There are no problems without solutions because solutions
wouldn't exist without problems. It is in the spirit of dialogue
and sincerity ... that I have come to speak with you about those
who have suffered and lost loved ones in these difficult
moments," said the prime minister at the meeting at a Conkary
military base.


A soldier and a civilian night watchman were killed while 73
people, most of them civilians, were wounded in two days of
violent protest over pay increases and arrears in the west
African country.


Thursday was the second night of trouble involving the military
who are demanding unpaid salaries totalling 300 million Guinean
francs (75,000 euros, about 100,000 dollars).


According to several witnesses, gunfire reverberated all night
from military camps in Macenta, some 800 kilometres (500 miles)
south of Conakry, Kankan, about 600 kilometres east of the
capital, and from southeastern Nzerekore and Faranah.


The army alleges that the authorities have been holding back
wages since 1996, the year when one mutiny claimed the lives of
300 soldiers.


Lieutenant Abdoul Adirou Diallo, in the meeting with Kouyate,
asked for his help in getting the back wages paid.


"We are poorly clothed and fed. Help us advance in rank and
treatment," he said, adding that the soldiers have no political
agenda.


Kouyate pledged he would speak with the president to seek "an
immediate solution to your demands."


Trouble started on Wednesday at the country's largest camp, Alpha
Yaya Diallo, situated near the airport and where ailing President
Conte's official residence is situated.


The camp houses elite commando and parachute units, and is also
the army headquarters.


On Wednesday night masked soldiers attacked and ransacked the
residence of Kerfalla Camara, the army commander.


Calm was reported to have returned Friday to the affected areas.


The rioting by an army that has shored up Conte's rule for years
is the first to hit the consensus government of Kouyate, who was
appointed in April after weeks of strikes against the regime.

