

Turkey's prime minister and the nation's army chief came face to
face Friday for the first time since the military threatened
action last week to protect the country's cherished secular
order.


Recep Tayyip Erdogan received General Yasar Buyukanit in his
office in Istanbul, Erdogan's spokesman, Mehmet Akif Beki, told
AFP, without elaborating.


The two leaders held an "evaluation of the general situation"
during the two- hour meeting, which was called by Erdogan, a
source from the prime minister's office told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


Last Friday the army, which has toppled four governments in as
many decades, issued a bombshell statement accusing Erdogan's
government of tolerating rising Islamist activity and threatening
action.


The government responded harshly, calling the army to order.


Erdogan and Buyukanit spoke over the telephone a day after the
army statement, which came hours after Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul narrowly missed being elected president in parliament.


It was widely seen as a signal that Gul, a former Islamist, is
unwelcome as head of state by the army.


The prospect of a president from the Islamist-rooted ruling party
has alarmed secularists, with more than a million people rallying
in Istanbul at the weekend.


This followed a similar demonstration in Ankara on April 14. A
third rally will take place in the western city of Manisa on
Saturday.


A senior minister earlier called for healing the rift with the
military, the greatest challenge to Erdogan since he took office
in March 2003.


"I hope we leave it here. This is to the benefit of all of us,"
Deputy Prime Minister Abdullatif Sener told CNN Turk television.


The crisis forced Erdogan to call early general elections.
Parliament on Thursday approved bringing the polls forward to
July 22 from November.


Meanwhile on Friday, Erdogan's Justice and Development Party
(AKP) moved to rush a major reform package through parliament
that would see the president elected by popular vote and not by
parliament.


The new strategy followed a Constitutional Court decision Tuesday
to annul the first-round parliamentary vote for a new president
amid widespread opposition to Gul, the sole candidate.


"The court ruling ... made it impossible to elect a president in
parliament. This blockage should be resolved," Sener said.


The key provision on choosing the president reflects the AKP's
confidence in getting its candidate elected through a popular
vote, without the interference of parliament.


An AKP-dominated constitutional commission began reviewing the
reform drafts immediately in a bid to put them to a vote in the
general assembly in the shortest possible time.


Together, the AKP and the opposition Motherland Party, which
backs the popular presidential vote, have the two-thirds
parliamentary majority needed to amend the constitution.


The AKP says it would like the first round of a popular
presidential vote to be held simultaneously with legislative
elections on July 22.


The draft reforms also includes modifying the presidency to run
for up to two possible five-year mandates instead of the current
single, seven-year term, and holding general elections every four
years instead of the current five.


Many legal experts, however, have warned the AKP that hasty
amendments could create other problems in the functioning of the
state system.


"One should not act with anger. It is dangerous to create an
ambiguous and odd system just as a response to the Constitutional
Court and the military," the Milliyet newspaper wrote.


Tuesday's court ruling was on the grounds that the assembly
lacked the required quorum after an opposition boycott had left
the AKP alone in the house.


Secularists suspect the AKP, the moderate offshoot of a now-
banned Islamist movement, is not truly committed to the existing
system and is eroding the separation of state and religion.


Parliament will hold a re-run of the first round on Sunday, but
Gul is unlikely to garner the required support, with the
opposition insisting on general elections first.

