

Britain's governing Labour Party was licking its wounds Saturday
after voters sent outgoing Prime Minister Tony Blair on his way
with a string of stinging poll losses.


Voters delivered their final verdict on Blair ahead of his
expected departure after 10 years in power -- and Labour were
ousted as the biggest party in the Scottish Parliament, left
looking for a coalition partner to stay in power in the Welsh
Assembly and pounded in English local councils.


Though Labour avoided the meltdown some pollsters predicted,
Blair's likely successor, finance minister Gordon Brown, is set
to take over the reins amid widespread voter discontent about the
war in Iraq and a series of recent scandals -- as evidenced in
Thursday's vote.


Newspapers said Saturday that Labour's mid-term setbacks finally
livened up British politics and set the stage for a new epic duel
between Brown and main opposition Conservative leader David
Cameron.


"The verdict on 10 years of New Labour is now in. The story is
one of under- achievement," said The Sun newspaper of Blair's
decade in power.


As Brown prepares to take over, "he must wonder how much worse
his timing could be," the Daily Express said.


Blair, who is expected to set out his departure plans next week,
was nonetheless defiantly upbeat Friday.


"Everyone said we were going to get hammered, it was going to be
a rout, and it's not turned out like that," he said at Labour's
London headquarters.


"You always take a hit in the mid-term but these results provide
a perfectly good springboard to go on and win the next general
election," he insisted.


But his party's first task over the three-day public holiday
weekend was to reflect on the defeats and see if it could cling
to power in Scotland and Wales, long considered unshakeable
Labour bastions.


The centre-left party was overtaken as the largest force in the
Edinburgh parliament by the Scottish National Party (SNP),
overturning 50 years of Labour domination.


The SNP made a net gain of 20 seats to edge out Labour 47 seats
to 46 and become the largest party in the 129-member devolved
parliament.


The centre-left SNP has pledged to hold a referendum on Scottish
independence.


SNP leader Alex Salmond said Labour no longer had a "divine
right" to rule Scotland and had "lost its moral authority" to
govern.


The SNP is expected to seek a coalition, most likely with the
fourth-placed centre-left Liberal Democrats (17 seats) and the
two Greens, though an anti- independence Labour-led coalition has
also been mooted.


Meanwhile, a storm raged over Scotland's new electronic vote
counting system, with up to 100,000 ballots registered as
spoiled. The Electoral Commission has begun an urgent
investigation into the chaos.


In English local elections, the Conservatives scored sweeping
gains, earning an estimated 40 percent of the vote, which the
centre-right party said would be enough to oust Labour in the
next general election, due by May 2010.


BBC estimates said Labour got 27 percent of the vote and the
Liberal Democrats 26 percent.


About 10,500 seats were contested in 312 councils. The
Conservatives gained 875 seats and control of 38 councils, with
nearly all the votes counted.


Cameron insisted his party had "made a real breakthrough across
the country."


Resurgent under the modernising Cameron, the Tories are trying to
secure an electoral bridgehead for their return to power at the
national level, which they lost in 1997 to Blair and Labour.


In Wales, Labour remained comfortably the largest party in the
60-seat devolved National Assembly but seemingly cannot continue
in government alone.


Labour lost three seats to hold 26 as opposition nationalists
Plaid Cymru gained three seats to hold 12.


Labour was to spend the weekend considering coalition options.


"One of the things which doesn't look possible is Labour
soldiering on alone," said First Minister Rhodri Morgan.


His Labour assembly members are set for "a free and open
discussion within the group on what's the best way forward" --
likely to mean teaming up with the Liberal Democrats.

