

A Taliban deadline for demands to be met to secure the release of
a French aid worker and three locals kidnapped by the extremist
group in Afghanistan is due to expire Saturday.


"The deadline is drawing closer every moment," Taliban spokesman
Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP Friday. "The French government and the
Afghan government not only have not accepted our demands, but
they even have not tried to contact us."


The extremist group is demanding the withdrawal of French troops
or the release of Taliban prisoners in exchange for Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) volunteer Eric Damfreville,
and three Afghans working with him.


A council of elders would decide on the fate of the four
kidnapped colleagues, who were captured a month ago, if the
demands were not met, Ahmadi said.


Asked if the abductees could be killed, Ahmadi said the group's
policy was "clear."


"The policy of the Taliban movement regarding the foreign
hostages is clear: if our demands are not met, we will act based
on our policy that we have implemented with foreigners so far."


The militants have executed several Turks and Indians, but they
have claimed responsibility for only one killing of a Western
hostage, a British engineer in 2005.


They have in the past beheaded a number of Afghan hostages, whom
they accused of spying.


The extremists secured the release of five of their men last
month in exchange for an Italian journalist they had kidnapped
two weeks earlier. The Italian's Afghan driver and translator
were beheaded.


Afghan officials would not speak to the media about the Terre
d'Enfance case, although President Hamid Karzai has said his
government was doing everything it could.


The Taliban have already released a woman who had been captured
with the four men.


Tearful and shaken, Celine Cordelier met the international media
hours afterwards to deliver a Taliban message that France's 1,000
troops must leave Afghanistan.


The group said at the same time that it had extended by a week
its ultimatum for the men because France was busy with the May 6
presidential election.


"Eric came, like me, to Afghanistan as a friend," Cordelier said
in an appeal to the extremists, who had held her for 24 days.


"Hashim, Rasoul and Azrat are Afghans. They are Muslims, they are
their brothers. They have children who are waiting for them.


"I have told them before leaving that my freedom is nothing
without theirs. Release them."

