

Officials in Washington on Friday braced for more revelations
from the alleged "DC Madam," the woman accused of running an
upscale prostitution agency for officials, military brass and
executives.


The latest twist in the saga, which has electrified the US
capital, was to come with a report by ABC News on Deborah Jeane
Palfrey, who denies charges that she ran a 300-dollar-an-hour
prostitution service for 13 years.


In excerpts from the interview, Palfrey reveals that she hired
some women who were in their 50s for the service, the exposure of
which has already led to the resignation of a senior Bush
administration official.


"There was never an age limit. I hired women well into their
50s," Palfrey told ABC News. "They were some of the most popular
women on staff."


Palfrey denies the charges and says her company was a legal
erotic "fantasy" service staffed by students and professional
women who moonlighted for her, typically for three evening shifts
per week.


She says in the interview, to be broadcast later Friday, that new
hires were required to sign a contract agreeing not to have
illegal sex with customers.


Potential recruits were also sent on a first appointment with a
client known to Palfrey, she said.


Prosecutors behind a federal racketeering and money laundering
case against her have branded such men "testers" and say their
purpose was to ensure the women were prepared to act as
prostitutes.


Dubbed the "DC Madam" by news reports, Palfrey denies doing
anything illegal through her business Pamela Martin &
Associates, but has said she has a record of the phone numbers of
more than 10,000 customers that could embarrass some of the US
capital's high-fliers.


Last week, the head of the US Agency for International
Development (USAID), Randall Tobias, resigned for personal
reasons, but ABC news said he stepped down after the network
contacted him about using the service.


"Tobias was a customer of my previous business, Pamela Martin
& Associates," Palfrey confirmed on Monday.


"Allow me to say how genuinely sorry I am for Mr. Tobias, his
family and his friends," Palfrey told reporters outside court.


Palfrey has promised that her telephone records -- all 46 pounds
(21 kilograms) of them -- would be revealed unless the charges
against her were dropped.


She has pleaded with journalists to seek details of her clients,
so she can call them as witnesses in her attempt to prove she was
not running a prostitution ring.

