

Slovenia's "swift and smooth" adoption of the euro in January can
be put down to its good preparation, the European Commission said
Friday, urging other euro hopefuls to follow its example.


Four months after the ex-Yugoslav republic swapped its tolars for
euros, the European Union's executive arm said citizens had
easily adapted to their new currency and that inflation had been
little affected by the changeover.


"Slovenia's adoption of the euro was a swift and smooth affair,"
said European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Joaquin
Almunia.


"This once more underlines the importance of early and careful
preparations and of timely information and communication on the
euro," he added.


On January 1, the tiny Alpine republic became the first to adopt
the euro of the 10 mostly former communist countries that joined
the European Union in May 2004, swelling the ranks of eurozone
nations to 13.


"For the other countries waiting to adopt the euro, the
experience shows that the 'Big Bang' approach -- i.e. irrevocable
locking of the exchange rate and simultaneous introduction of the
euro banknotes and coins -- works," the Commission said.


It added that "a two-week dual circulation period is sufficient
provided that the changeover is well and timely prepared."


Slovenian central bank deputy governor Andrej Rant said Slovenia
was "pleased and proud" with the favourable report by the
Commission.


"There were no bottle-necks in the functioning of cash-machines
or in the changeover," Rant told Slovenian national radio.


"Surveys indicate that 92 percent of citizens felt they had been
well informed of the changeover. This shows we were also
efficient on our communication campaign," he said.


The head of the Slovenian government's Institute of Macroeconomic
Analysis and Development (UMAR) Janez Sustersic also expressed
his satisfaction with the report, saying it confirmed that the
euro changeover contributed to inflation by only between 0.2 and
0.3 percentage points but only on a group of products.


"The perception (among citizens) of inflation being higher than
shown by statistics lasted only two months and now is calming
down," Sustersic said.


The Commission said that Slovenians benefited from having
previous exposure to euros because of the country's close trade
ties with neighbouring Austria and Italy.


As a result, three working days after the changeover, a survey
found that half of respondents were carrying only euros and that
by mid-January virtually all cash payments were in euros.


Meanwhile, fears that retailers would take advantage of consumer
confusion from the changeover to round up prices proved to be
unfounded, the Commission said, noting that overall prices
declined in January as they usually do due to sales.


The 2002 switch from national currencies to euros in the original
12 euro countries was plagued by complaints of price hikes,
although the Commission has long argued there was no statistical
evidence of this.


The Mediterranean islands of Cyprus and Malta, which also joined
the EU in May 2004, are seeking to adopt the euro next January
and the Commission is due to report on whether they meet the
necessary conditions later this month.

