

Socialist Segolene Royal, bidding to become France's first woman
president on Sunday, has pledged to temper the country's need for
painful economic reform with a stepped-up state commitment to
social welfare guarantees.


Her "presidential pact," which underpins her campaign against
right-wing challenger Nicolas Sarkozy, relies heavily on
vigorous, re-distributive government measures to stimulate growth
and employment.


Confronted by an estimated youth jobless rate of close to 20
percent, she would create 500,000 "springboard" jobs for young
workers. The initiative would allow certain employers to hire
youths who lack extensive training, with the costs being borne by
regional governments for the first year.


Workers laid off for economic reasons would be entitled to
continue to receive 90 percent of their salaries while undergoing
re-training.


Unemployed workers receiving the minimum level of government
assistance would be entitled to "solidarity" funds once they
found a new job, boosting their income by a third.


The country's minimum wage level would be raised progressively
over five years to a gross figure of 1,500 euros (2,100 dollars)
a month.


Boosting consumer purchasing power, partially achieved by
increasing retirement payments and housing allowances for low
income groups, is at the heart of Royal's economic platform.


Her programme would be the subject of an annual conference of all
of the country's leading economic players.


Stressing the importance of social dialogue, she has argued that
compromise "benefits both workers and management," with the state
responsible for ensuring "balanced" exchanges between the
parties.


The state should also stand as a guarantor of equality in access
to health care. Under a Royal presidency there would be no
exceptions to a citizen's right to subsidized care. The benefits
would be financed by the fruits of faster growth and greater
employment.


The government would also act to shore up small and medium-sized
businesses and to support research and innovation schemes and
energy policies.


To those who voice fears that such a programme could threaten the
health of France's public finances, Royal has vowed to streamline
and rationalize the official sector, eliminating subsidies that
are shown to be ineffective.


She foresees no tax hikes but has vowed to take a harder look at
certain advantages now available to high-income earners, notably
a 60 percent ceiling on direct taxation.

