

The head of the Louis Vuitton Cup race jury insisted on Friday
the decision to order a rematch between hosts Desafio Espanol and
Italy's Mascalzone after the latter infringed race rules was fair
and that disqualification would have been a step too far.


The jury ruled Thursday that Mascalzone should replay Wednesday's
successful encounter with the Spanish after committing a backstay
infringement after scheduled racing on Saturday.


Defending the decision Jury chairman Bryan Willis said: "In match
racing, and, in particular, the America's Cup we do have another
option (aside from expulsion) provided we have determined that
the infringement had no significant effect on the outcome of the
match," said Willis


Awarding the match to Desafio would have been overly harsh on the
Italians, he explained.


"We don't think that's fair because they didn't win the match.


"In match racing generally speaking if you want the points you
have to go out there and beat the other boat and they didn't do
that. But they've got the chance to do it now," said Willis.


He also said the protest had been lodged in the proper timeframe
but that any other alleged past misdemeanours which might emerge
could not be considered as the time period had elapsed.


"I can only say the competitors themselves wanted a rule that was
clear and was the same for all of them, rather than a rule that
allowed them to remove them and put them (backstays) up and cause
some danger going up the mast in bad weather and trying to attach
them.


"The idea was it's a rule that's the same for everybody - you
either have it on or have it off.


"Normally a red flag would be required ... but what we determined
was that if it's not reasonably possible to see (the
infringement) on the race course then it is permitted to do it
after the race by viewing videos."


Willis said the jury had decided to hand down a verdict combining
a sailing and financial penalty.


"We would not like them to have had no penalty for a serious
infringement, which is what it was."


The cash fine goes towards Cup management funds, Willis
explained.


Mascalzone, insisting it had mistakenly made a "minor
infringement," shrugged off the wrangle with wins over
compatriots +39 Challenge and stragglers United Internet Team
Germany to stay five points behind Desafio.


The Spanish are on course to land the final semi-final berth but
the Italians are only four behind fifth-placed Swedes Victory
Challenge with two matches in hand.

