

Alex Salmond has the balance of power in Scotland in his hands
Saturday after his nationalists became the biggest party in the
Scottish Parliament.


The portly 52-year-old hopes to become first minister having led
the centre-left Scottish National Party (SNP) to top the polls --
but he may have to postpone his dream of an independent Scotland
to do so.


That is likely to be the price demanded by potential coalition
partners -- and though the political momentum is with him,
Salmond will have to use all of his renowned cunning to strike a
deal that keeps a referendum on independence from the rest of the
United Kingdom on the table in some form.


Often seen by critics as smug, the man sometimes called "Smart
Alex" is apparently a turn-off for women voters, and seen as
untrustworthy but also viewed as a sharp and effective debater
and a smart tactician.


His quick wit and sharp one-liners have made him a regular on
television quiz shows but his lack of punctuality is notorious.


"If we're going to be different it's not just different in terms
of our policy of an independent and free Scotland -- it's also a
difference of attitude and style," he pledged Friday.


Alexander Elliot Anderson Salmond was born on December 31, 1954
in Linlithgow, 20 miles (30 kilometres) west of Edinburgh. He
studied economics and history at the University of St Andrews.


After work at the Scottish agriculture and fisheries department
as an economist, he worked for the Royal Bank of Scotland in
various roles, including as an oil economist, and wrote
extensively on economics, fishing and energy.


His involvement in the SNP dates from his student days in 1973 at
a time of renewed interest in devolving some government powers to
Edinburgh.


In 1979, Salmond was prominent among socialist republicans within
the SNP and was briefly expelled.


But he recovered to be elected representative for Banff and
Buchan, north-east Scotland, in the British parliament in 1987,
the same year he became SNP deputy leader. He has held the seat
ever since.


Salmond took the SNP into the 1990s as leader, transforming it
from a reactionary movement to a more mainstream political party
by the time Tony Blair's Labour swept to power in the 1997
general election.


Soon after, he was an active participant in the cross-party
campaign for devolution, despite still being fully committed to
an independent Scotland.


After the overwhelming vote in favour of a Scottish Parliament in
1997, Salmond was elected to Edinburgh as member for Banff and
Buchan in 1999, only to stand down as party leader in 2000.


The following year he left Edinburgh altogether to lead SNP
lawmakers in the London parliament, leaving day-to-day affairs
north of the border with England to his deputy Nicola Sturgeon.


In the capital he became one of the most vocal critics of the
Iraq war, later supporting attempts by Welsh nationalists to
impeach Blair and explicitly stating that the prime minister had
lied to parliament and the people.


In 2004, he was re-elected SNP leader and returned to the London
parliament in the 2005 general election, but made clear he wanted
to run for the Scottish Parliament in 2007.


Following Thursday's vote, he won the single member Gordon
constituency, where the SNP came third in 2003.


Salmond is married to Moira, who is 17 years his senior and whom
he met in his early 20s while a civil servant.

