

Novak Djokovic will be fighting the fatigue factor after battling
for more than two and a half hours on Friday to subdue Guillermo
Garcia-Lopez 6-4, 1-6, 7-5 for a semi-finals place at the Estoril
Open.


The Serb third seed will face a Spanish clay craftsman in number
two Tommy Robredo, who had his own troubles in overcoming
Argentine Agustin Calleri 7-5, 6-7 (5/7), 6-3.


Richard Gasquet and Paul-Henri Mathieu set up a French showdown
after both subdued stubborn opponents.


The young pair will meet for the second time this season
following a January quarter-final in Sydney with the score
standing at 2-0 in Gasquet's favour.


Gasquet overcame a slow start to advance past crafty American
veteran Vince Spadea 6-3, 6-4.


Mathieu, ranked 42nd and winner of a title last week in
Casablanca, had his own struggle before overcoming Argentine Juan
Monaco 6-4, 4-6, 6-1.


But Mathieu admitted he's well worn down after stretching his
current win streak to eight matches with his victory over Monaco.


"It won't be the best way to go into this match, especially
against Richard," he said. I've played a lot of matches. I have
to somehow be at 100 percent to try and beat him."


Djokovic needed five match points to finally stake his claim on
the semi-fials in his Estoril appearance.


The youngster says he will need all of his energies to push for
the final.


"It was good to win a tough one, but it's a minus for tomorrow,"
said the world number five. "I hope to recover as much as
possible.


"There was a lot of tension in  the match and my movement was not
so good, it led to unforced errors. Conditions are tough here and
I need all of my strength when I play Tommy,"


Robredo avenged a loss to Calleri from last week in Barcelona as
he won his 19th match of the season.


Gasquet improved to 21-8 on the season after reaching a Monte
Carlo quarter- final in his first clay outing of the pre-Roland
Garros campaign.


"I didn't know his game, so it was difficult for me at the
start," said the winner.


"He was in the Top 20 a few years ago and is a dangerous player.


"I began badly and was lucky to win this match in straight sets.
It will be tough to play a countryman in the semi-finals.


"We are good friends and know each other's games well. It will be
anyone's match."


Among the women the number three Lucie Safarova was the last seed
standing in the semi-finals.


Spain's Nuria Llagostera Vives reached the last four as French
top seed Marion Bartoli was forced to retire with a strained
abdominal muscle, losing 6-2, 3-1.


The winner will face German Greta Arn, who beat Sweden's Sofia
Arvidsson 6-2, 6-2.


In the bottom half, Czech Safarova advanced at the expense of
Spaniard Lourdes Dominguez Lino 7-5, 6-3 and will next play
Viktoria Azarenka of Belarus, who beat last weekend's Budapest
champion Gisela Dulko of Argentina 6-1, 6-2.


"It was a tough match for me, she's a good player," said
Safarova, 30th in the world and winner in Estoril in 2005. "She
played a huge topspin to my backhand that was hard to return.


"I had to wait for my chance to hit winners. I'm just happy to
win and reach the semi-finals."

