

Bank of America, the US financial titan, sued ABN Amro Friday,
saying the Dutch bank's breach of a deal to sell a Chicago-based
bank would cause "irreparable damage."


Bank of America filed suit in a federal court in New York seeking
an injunction barring ABN Amro from negotiating the sale or
selling LaSalle Bank, other than as provided for in an agreement
with Bank of America, the court document showed.


The lawsuit came a day after a court in the Netherlands halted
the sale of LaSalle by ABN Amro, which is the object of rival
takeover bids.


In the court document obtained by AFP, Bank of America said ABN
Amro was in "breach of representations and warranties" in its
April 22 agreement to sell the subsidiary that holds Chicago-
based LaSalle Bank Corporation to the US bank for 21 billion
dollars in cash.


The North Carolina-based Bank of America said it had been willing
to sweeten its initial 20-billion-dollar bid pay for an
acquisition of "great strategic importance."


The growing bank is underrepresented in the Chicago region, the
third-largest US banking market, and considers this acquisition
key to its future.


"The opportunity to acquire LaSalle represents a unique and
irreplaceable business opportunity and the loss of that
opportunity would cause irreparable damage to Bank of America,"
the document said.


Bank of America said as a result of the Dutch bank's breaches of
the deal, "ABN Amro now stands to obtain benefits in the billions
of dollars."


The latest twist in the bidding war for ABN Amro came a day after
a Dutch court ruled Thursday that ABN Amro cannot sell LaSalle
without shareholder approval, dealing a blow to ABN Amro's plans
to accept a friendly takeover bid by British bank Barclays.


The decision to freeze the sale bolsters a proposed rival bid for
ABN Amro by a three-bank consortium led by Royal Bank of Scotland
(RBS).


On April 23, ABN Amro announced it had agreed to merge with
Barclays in a transaction valued at 67 billion dollars.


Several days later, the RBS-led consortium, which includes
Spanish bank Banco Santander Central Hispano, offered a counter-
bid of 72 billion dollars for ABN Amro, conditioned upon LaSalle
remaining an asset of the Dutch bank.


Bank of America said its deal to buy LaSalle, the 17th largest
bank in the United States, included at ABN Amro's request a "go-
shop" provision.


That provision allows ABN to sell LaSalle to a higher bidder
within a limited time period and specificially states the Dutch
bank's legal authority to sell LaSalle to Bank of America without
the need for further corporate proceedings, including any
shareholder vote, the court document said.


As a result of the Dutch court decision Thursday requiring a
shareholder vote, "ABN Bank is now in breach of its
representations that no shareholder vote is required," it said.


"The Barclays transaction is conditioned upon the sale of LaSalle
for at least 21 billion dollars," Bank of America's court filing
said.


"Bank of America's acquisition of LaSalle, by contrast, is not
conditioned upon the Barclays transaction or any other
transaction," it said.

