

Asian finance ministers meet Saturday to discuss an overhaul of
their regional currency pact to make it easier to borrow
emergency funds to defend against speculative attacks.


With the Asian financial crisis still a painful memory a decade
after it threw the region into turmoil, ministers will seek to
deepen financial ties and spur already rapid economic growth.


Finance ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) as well as China, Japan and South Korea will discuss a
multi-nation scheme of currency swaps to improve the existing
bilateral system introduced in 2000.


They will also seek to foster Asian bond markets and may discuss
the massive tide of capital flows into the more open economies,
whose exporters are struggling with stronger currencies that
damage their competitiveness.


While a decade ago many countries in the region were running
current account deficits, many now have large surpluses and
swelling foreign exchange reserves because of export-driven
expansion.


"Now 10 years after the crisis there are indications that new
capital inflows are coming into Asia -- a lot of liquidity at the
global and regional level," said Indonesian Minister of Finance
Sri Mulyani Indrawati.


"The question is how, should we deal with it?" she said during a
seminar on the sidelines of the Asian Development Bank's annual
meeting in Kyoto.


In the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 10 ASEAN
nations plus Japan, China and South Korea agreed to set up a
bilateral currency swap scheme known as the Chiang Mai Initiative
in a bid to prevent a repeat of the turmoil.


Under the accord, an Asian country in financial trouble can
borrow foreign currency -- usually US dollars -- from another to
bolster its international reserves until the crisis passes.


Asia now holds the bulk of the world's foreign reserves at some
2.7 trillion dollars, led by China which alone has more than one
trillion dollars.


Economists warn that the reserves are far in excess of what is
needed to ensure financial stability, leaving the risk of asset
bubbles.


But China for one is reluctant to relax its currency regime too
quickly.


"We want to manage Chinese capital flows very carefully," said Yu
Yongding, director of the Chinese Academy of Social Science.


"We don't want speculators to attack China like they have been
doing in the rest of Asia," he told the same seminar.


The finance ministers of Japan, China and South Korea met Friday
and pledged to step up financial cooperation to prevent regional
currency turmoil and support closer economic integration.


Last year, the 10 ASEAN nations along with China, Japan and South
Korea agreed to study the creation of a single Asian currency
akin to the euro, although little progress is expected any time
soon.


Some experts argue that Asia does not have a clear focus for
integration.


"In spite of much talk about regional cooperation I'm afraid East
Asia does not yet have a clear and unanimous view on the need
(for) and the cost of regional integration," said Toyoo Gyohten,
president of Japan's Institute of International Monetary Affairs.


ASEAN groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

