

India will adhere to the framework of a nuclear energy agreement
it signed with the United States, the government said Friday.


The statement came as India's Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon
returned from talks in Washington on the pact, which offers long-
denied Western civilian nuclear energy technology to India.


"We remain committed to implementing the understanding
expeditiously in a way that it adheres as closely as possible to
the framework of the July 2005 joint statement and the March 2006
separation plan," Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee said.


He added that the agreement, signed July 2005 in New Delhi by US
President George W. Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, now
had wider acceptance.


The US has voiced its frustration over the slow-paced talks on
the details of the accord.


Officials from the two sides will meet later this month in New
Delhi and try and stamp the deal, the foreign ministry here said.


It is the centrepiece of energy-starved India's new ties with
Washington after decades of frosty Cold War relations.


The US sees India as a democratic ally and a bulwark against
instability in South Asia.


One of the sticking points in the accord is a clause saying the
US could withdraw civilian nuclear fuel supplies and equipment if
India breaches its unilateral moratorium on nuclear weapons
testing.


Secretary Menon on his return said he had tried to dispel fears
from critics that the agreement will hamper India's nuclear
weapons programme, nine years after it staged atomic bomb tests
that sparked a tit-for-tat response from Pakistan.


Under the agreement, India also wants the explicit right to
reprocess nuclear fuel, in contradiction of US law.


India agreed as part of the deal to separate its civilian and
military nuclear facilities and to allow the civilian sites to be
inspected.


But Delhi opposes another pre-condition providing for US
inspection of its nuclear facilities if the International Atomic
Energy Agency fails to inspect them.

