

Russia breezed into the world icehockey championship's play-offs
following a 3-0 win over Italy in their qualifying Group E match
here on Friday.


However, the hosts needed to storm Italy's net for almost 35
minutes before scoring the opening goal as the guests netminder
Jason Muzzatti was in complete command of his goal stopping and
deflecting all the pucks thrown at him.


But he was unable to prevent Ilya Kovalchuk's opening goal at
34:17 as Atlanta Thrashers' forward sent the puck home with a
sharp-angled close-range shot.


Los Angeles Kings striker Alexander Frolov added his goal 13:35
into the third from Kovalcuk's cross to secure Russia's win,
while Alexei Morozov finalised the scoring with four seconds
remaining before the final horn.


Earlier on Friday Canada, who took fourth place at the last
year's championship at Riga, also went through to the knockout
round beating Belarus 6-3 in the Group F showdown.


Phoenix Coyotes' striker Shane Doan collected a hat-trick to
record Canada's third win over the former Soviet republic at the
world championships in as many head-to-head meetings.


Yet it was Belarus who drew first blood to open the score at 8:43
when two Canadians were sinbinned. Alexei Ugarov lifted Belarus
1-0 up sweeping in a rebound following Dmitry Meleshko's mid-
range wrist shot.


Canada upped the tempo seeking for an equaliser but were playing
too dirty, collecting 12 penalty minutes before the break, while
Belarus defended stoutly and kept their net clean missing several
chances to increase their lead.


After the restart Canada added power and levelled through Doan,
who sent the puck into unguarded post from Rick Nash's cross-ice
pass at 22:38 when Canada were shorthanded.


In the time remaining before the second break Doan netted two
more goals to complete a classic hat-trick, while Jonathan Toews
and Mike Camalleri added one apiece to make it 5-1 for Canada.


Alexander Ryadinsky reduced the arrears in the third scoring at
49:58 but Matthew Lombardi restored Canada's four-goal lead with
3:45 remaining.


Dmitry Meleshko scored the last goal of the match at 58:53, when
Belarus had two-man advantage.


In the relegation group Latvia took the winning start into their
campaign to stay in the elite division blanking 5-0 former
compatriots Ukraine.


Meanwhile, Norway clinched a narrow 3-2 win over Austria due to
Morten Ask's sudden death goal 2:22 into extra time.

