

Tiger Woods seized a share of the halfway lead in the 6.4
million-dollar Wachovia Championship on Friday, alongside Vijay
Singh and Arron Oberholser.


Woods hit only five fairways, but managed not to make a bogey
until his final hole as he carded a 4-under-par 68 for 6-under
138.


Fiji's Singh, who like Woods played in benign morning conditions,
posted a 71 while Oberholser fired a 69 to complete the trio, who
led Ted Purdy (69) and Jason Bohn (72) by one shot.


Ken Duke (70) was a further shot back on 140.


Woods, who has never won here, signed for five birdies against
the one bogey.


"I'm very pleased with my score," said Woods, who was making his
first start since last month's Masters. "I missed a couple of
short ones but also got away with a couple of bad drives.


"I pretty much have maximized my rounds. I didn't hit it very
good today. I made a couple of good par saves to keep the middle
part of my round going," added Woods, who immediately headed to
the driving range.


First-round leader Padraig Harrington recovered from a poor start
to regain the outright lead with two holes to play, only to drop
four shots in a nightmare finish.


Harrington bogeyed the par-3 17th before taking a triple-bogey at
the par-4 18th, when he found the water left of the green with
his approach shot, and compounded his problems by three-putting.


He trudged off the green three strokes from the lead after a 75.


Singh, meanwhile, made a sluggish start, dropping two shots on
his outward half, but he finished strong, picking up three
strokes in his last three holes.


His highlight was an eagle at the par-5 seventh, where he he hit
a 3-iron to three feet.


"That's the way this game is," Singh said. "I wasn't playing bad.
I just wasn't putting it together and then all of a sudden,
something good happened."


Oberholser also finished strong with birdies at his final three
holes.


"I'm striking the ball very well but I'm going to have to putt
better," Oberholser said. "I'll be honest, I never feel totally
comfortable on this course. It's a lot like Augusta, where you
have to think from the green backwards, and play accordingly."


Oberholser will play his third round in relative peace and quiet
with Purdy, while Woods and Singh slug it out in the final
pairing.


Their relationship has been somewhat frosty since the 2000
Presidents Cup, when Singh's caddie wore a cap with the words
'Tiger Who?' stitched on the back before a singles match between
the two.

