

The outcome of the French presidential election will have no
impact on the nation's relationship with the United States, the
French ambassador said Friday.


"Don't expect any changes in the main elements or components of
the foreign policy," said Ambassador Jean-David Levitte.


Levitte dismissed perceptions that relations were chilly between
the two countries and said that while the "style" of policy may
change under a new president the overall goals would not.


"You will see a number of comments in American papers saying it's
time to turn over the bitter page of 2003 but it has already been
changed," the French envoy said.


Franco-American relations had cooled in 2003 when Paris took a
leading role in the United Nations in opposition to Washington's
plans to invade Iraq.


"Jacques Chirac and George Bush - despite their big differences
in views and fight over the Iraq war - had a very cordial
relationship," Levitte said.


Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal are
vying to succeed Chirac in Sunday's presidential election.


Speaking to the Chicago Council on Global Relations, Levitte
explained that foreign policy did not play a large role in the
presidential debates because there is a broad consensus in France
on the overall goals.


The priorities include further developing the European Union,
maintaining the NATO alliance and building better relations with
the countries along the southern rim of the Mediterranean.


Levitte also said it was time to stop the debate over the
legitimacy of the war in Iraq and focus on solutions.


"We don't think you can impose democracy through war -- democracy
has to come from within," he said.


"Lets help the Muslim countries to develop, as Indonesia did,
democratic institutions."


He warned that Iran was deeply involved in all the Middle East
conflicts because of its support of Hezbollah in Lebannon, Hamas
in Palestine and Shiite militias in Iraq.


The ambassador also expressed France's commitment to ending
Iran's suspected nuclear weapons drive.


"Each time we make progress on one (crisis) it has ripple
effect," he said.

