

Lebanon's ailing economy continues to suffer from a lack of
foreign investment because of last year's Israeli offensive and
the persistent internal political crisis, a Beirut conference
heard on Friday.


Prime Minister Fuad Siniora told the opening of the Arab Economic
Forum that the Lebanese economy was hit hard by the Israeli
military offensive last July and August.


"Lebanon continues to suffer from the devastating consequences of
the war and the persistent (internal) crisis," said Siniora,
whose Western-backed government was paralysed by the resignation
of six pro-Syrian opposition ministers in November.


"Planned reforms which have been prepared by the government need
ratification from parliament," Siniora said, but the legislature
remains in a political limbo because of the crisis.


The premier said the foreign assistance of nearly eight billion
dollars pledged at a January international aid conference to help
Lebanon recover from the Israeli war was proof of the "great
confidence" of investors in the country, however.


But the aid was pledged on the condition that Lebanon first
introduce reforms, including privatisations, which have so far
been rejected by the Hezbollah-led opposition.


Riad Salameh, governor of the Central Bank, estimated that
Lebanon would see a growth rate of two percent in 2007, after
suffering a negative five percent rate last year because of the
war.


"The Central Bank can maintain monetary stability," he said. "The
exchange market is calm -- there are no conversions of Lebanese
pounds into dollars."


Lebanon's central bank has 13 billion dollars in foreign
currencies and about 6.8 billion dollars in gold reserves.


Abdulrahman al-Attiyah, secretary general of the Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC), noted the "negative effects of the (political)
crisis on the investment climate."


"In order for Arab countries to take advantage of the monetary
surplus of oil- rich Gulf states, there should be an encouraging
investment atmosphere based on political, security and social
stability," he said.


Last summer's 34-day Israeli war on the Shiite militant Hezbollah
inflicted destruction in Lebanon estimated at several billion
dollars, and along with the internal political crisis, scared off
tourists and investors.


Lebanon now faces a public debt of more than 40 billion dollars,
or 180 percent of gross domestic product.

