

Turkey's prime minister and army chief came face to face on
Friday for the first time since the military threatened action
last week to protect the country's cherished secular order, an
official said.


Recep Tayyip Erdogan received General Yasar Buyukanit in his
office in Istanbul, Erdogan's spokesman, Mehmet Akif Beki, told
AFP, without elaborating.


There were no immediate statements after the two-hour meeting,
the Anatolia news agency reported.


Last Friday the army, which has toppled four governments in as
many decades, issued a bombshell statement accusing Erdogan's
government of tolerating rising Islamist activity and threatening
action.


The government responded equally harshly, calling the army to
order.


Erdogan and Buyukanit had spoken over the telephone a day after
the army statement, which came hours after Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul narrowly missed being elected president in
parliament.


It was widely seen as a signal that Gul, a former Islamist, is
unwelcome as head of state by the army, responsible for toppling
four governments since 1960.


The prospect of an AKP president has alarmed secularists, with
more than a million people rallying in Istanbul last weekend,
following a similar demonstration in Ankara on April 14. A third
demonstration will take place in the western city of Manisa on
Saturday.


A senior minister called earlier for healing the rift with the
military, the greatest challenge to Erdogan since he took office
in March 2003.


"I hope we leave it here. This is to the benefit of all of us,"
Deputy Prime Minister Abdullatif Sener told CNN Turk television.


The crisis forced Erdogan to bow to opposition calls for early
general elections. Parliament on Thursday approved bringing the
polls forward to July 22 from November.


Meanwhile on Friday, Erdogan's Justice and Development Party
(AKP) moved to rush a  major reform package through parliament
that would see the president elected by popular vote and not by
parliament.


The new strategy followed a Constitutional Court decision Tuesday
to annul the first-round parliamentary vote for a new president
amid widespread secular opposition to Gul, the sole candidate.


"The court ruling ... made it impossible to elect a president in
parliament. This blockage should be resolved," Sener said.


The key provision on choosing the president reflects the AKP's
confidence in getting its candidate elected through a popular
vote, without the interference of parliament.


An AKP-dominated constitutional commission began reviewing the
reform drafts immediately in a bid to put them to a vote in the
general assembly in the shortest possible time.


Together, the AKP and the opposition Motherland Party, which
backs the popular presidential vote, have the two-thirds
parliamentary majority needed to amend the constitution.


The AKP says its would like the first-round of a popular
presidential vote be held simultaneously with the legislative
elections on July 22.


The draft reforms also includes modifying the presidency to run
for a once- renewable, five-year mandate instead of the current
single, seven-year term, and holding general elections every four
years instead of the current five.


Many legal experts, however, have warned the AKP that hasty
amendments could create other problems in the functioning of the
state system.


"One should not act with anger. It is dangerous to create an
ambiguous and odd system just as a response to the Constitutional
Court and the military," the Milliyet newspaper wrote.


Tuesday's court ruling was on the grounds that the assembly
lacked the required quorum.


An opposition boycott had left the AKP alone in the house.


Secularists oppose the prospect of an AKP president, arguing that
the party, the moderate offshoot of a now-banned Islamist
movement, is not truly committed to the secular system and is
eroding the separation of state and religion.


The AKP was virtually certain to elect Gul in the later stages of
the vote, when a simple majority will suffice.


Parliament will hold a re-run of the first round on Sunday, but
Gul is unlikely to garner the required support, with the
opposition insisting on general elections first.

