

The UN-brokered economic compact signed this week with great
fanfare aims to create a liberal free market in Iraq, but US
officials admit that for now this approach will take a back seat
to more statist job creation schemes.


The deal was approved on Wednesday at a conference in the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh by the leaders of more than 50
countries, who agreed to fund reconstruction if Iraq meets
certain economic benchmarks.


The agreement urged Iraqis to set up what the US State
Department's pointman on Iraq, David Satterfield, described last
month as "the basis for a liberal, investment-friendly, investor-
friendly economic regime."


But, while the language echoes Washington's dreams for
transforming Iraq before the March 2003 invasion, officials on
the ground admit that, in the short term, reviving state-owned
industries to create jobs will take priority.


"At this stage in Iraq's situation, I would argue very strongly
that profitability is not the key aspect in assessing your state-
owned enterprises," a senior US official in Baghdad involved in
economic policy said this week.


"Employment in this situation is frankly more important in many
ways than profitability," he told reporters.


Observers estimate that around 48 percent of Iraq's workforce is
unemployed, creating an army of the dispossessed which is a
fertile recruiting ground for the many illegal militias and
insurgent gangs fighting in the war.


In March, Paul Brinkley, the US Department of Defence's
undersecretary for business announced a plan to reopen dozens of
Iraq's old state-owned businesses and initially re-employ 10,000
workers.


"There is a recognition that security and economic prosperity go
hand in hand, and that unemployment in Iraq is contributing to
the frustrations of people and creating sympathy for insurgents,"
Brinkley said, at the time.


"The factories served as the engine for the Iraqi economy and
must be restarted."


The new US position, contrasts heavily with the neo-conservative
influenced policy of early days of the occupation.


In the aftermath of the 2003 invasion, the subsidies and tariffs
protecting local industries were lifted, forcing the state-owned
industries to close and tossing nearly 100,000 people out of
work.


Coming hard on the heels of policies disbanding the army and
firing Baath party members from the their jobs, the result was a
huge number of disgruntled, unemployed men that went on to swell
the ranks of the insurgency.


"There was a lot of foolishness in 2003 and they failed to
recognize the realities and be sufficiently practical in dealing
with the situation," said the US official.


"The policy balance that is required in this period is rather
more sophisticated than what you saw in the enthusiasms of the
Coalition Provisional Authority in 2003," he added.


One of the biggest signs of a policy shift was the return of top
US diplomat Tim Carney to Baghdad in January to oversee the
reconstruction effort.


Carney spent two months in Iraq right after the invasion trying
to restore the industrial sector and then resigned in disgust
when it became clear they were just being left to close down or
be sold off.


There are still hopes that Iraq will be able to sell off
industries to private sector and foreign investors -- much to the
chagrin of many Iraqis who fear their national patrimony will
disappear in a fire sale.


US officials say that the ultimate goal still is a free market
system and that privatisation must happen -- but not now, not
when lots of unemployed angry young men are turning to violence.


Other efforts to boost employment include a 30-million-dollar
micro-loan programme by the Iraqi labour ministry for
entrepreneurs to start small businesses like electronics repair
shops.


The industry ministry has a 20-million-dollar programme to help
businesses hurt by violence.


The US military has a number of initiatives of its own, including
the year-old Iraq First programme favouring Iraqi contractors
instead of foreign ones.


"For the past 12 months we've made a concerted effort to increase
our contracting with Iraqi companies," Major General Darryl
Scott, head of military contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan, told
reporters recently.


"This has been a true shift in thinking about reconstruction and
contracting in Iraq and movement towards developing capacity of
Iraqi firms to provide for the needs of their own people," he
said.


Now, half of contracts are awarded to Iraqi firms compared to
only a fifth a year before, he said.


There is also a plan to create a secure area next to the massive
US base at Baghdad airport for Iraqi businesses to provide
maintenance and repair services -- something that could be
extended to other bases around the country.


The move comes after observers noted that, in contrast to other
countries hosting US forces, Iraqis derive almost no economic
benefit from the bases in their midst, which import nearly all
their food and labour from abroad.

