

US software giant Microsoft and web portal Yahoo were reported
Friday to be exploring merger or alliance to better compete
against Google, but both remained tight-lipped about the rumors.


Yahoo's stock price leaped about 18 percent and Microsoft's
slipped slightly after The Wall Street Journal and The New York
Post reported that the technology titans might unite to take on
Internet search powerhouse Google.


The rumors appeared at odds with the mood at Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo, where morale and optimism have buoyed in
recent months with the successful launch of its new Panama online
advertising platform.


Moreover, for Microsoft to acquire Yahoo or make a deal for it to
handle the Windows Live online search business would be an out-
of-character admission of failure by the world's largest software
company.


When contacted by AFP, representatives from Yahoo and Google said
they would not comment on speculation or rumors.


Analysts were skeptical of the notion of an acquisition, saying
Yahoo was regaining its footing in the market after a rough patch
and had little to gain by selling out to Microsoft.


"Count me among the skeptics; I don't think it's going to
happen," said analyst Matt Rosoff of Directions on Microsoft,
which tracks the Redmond, Washington- based firm.


"I don't understand what Yahoo would get out of the deal,
including that there are people there who don't want to work for
Microsoft."


Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang is reportedly among those averse to
working for Microsoft, which technology entrepreneurs in
California's famed Silicon Valley area notoriously regard as a
menacing institutional empire.


While acquiring Yahoo would boost Microsoft's ability to compete
in online services, integrating the firms' operations could
present "thorny cultural and technological challenges," according
to Datamonitor analyst Ri Pierce-Grove.


Microsoft and Yahoo could easily be discussing some kind of
partnership, perhaps in the area or Internet search or e-mail
where Yahoo has profited and Microsoft has suffered, according to
Rosoff.


"An outright acquisition would be very expensive," Rosoff said.
"The future growth is not there; there are different cultures,
and there is a ton of overlap implying one would have to shut
down what they have to offer."


At an informal gathering in San Francisco on Thursday, Yahoo
executives spoke enthusiastically with AFP about the company's
confidence in Panama and told of plans to roll out a host of new
products and services.


Citing unnamed people it said were familiar with the situation,
the Wall Street Journal said executives at Microsoft and Yahoo
appeared to be in early-stage discussions to take "a fresh look
at a merger of the two companies or some kind of match-up that
would pair their companies' respective strengths."


A year ago, the two had explored the idea of combining to form a
greater competitor to search-engine giant Google Inc., but the
talks "led nowhere," the paper recalled.


Rosoff pointed out that the rumored talks between the companies a
year ago had yet to be confirmed.


Management changes at both companies since then could help
facilitate a pairing, it said.


Combining the online search engines of Yahoo and Microsoft would
give the companies about a quarter of a market ruled by Google,
which is based in Mountain View, California.


"Microsoft and Yahoo are strongly motivated to find ways to
dethrone Google ... and the combined mass of the two companies'
client and consumer bases could generate a viable competitor to
Google on both the desktop and the mobile device," Pierce-Grove
said in a written analysis.

