

The three young Cuban soldiers fled their military base to chase
the American dream, but the deserters could now face a firing
squad after their plot turned into a bloody nightmare.


Their bold plan was to hijack an airplane to fly to the United
States, the country many disillusioned Cubans secretly dream of
reaching. But by the time they were all captured this week, a
sentry and an officer had been killed.


Their escapade had already started violently last Sunday, when
the deserters killed a guard and wounded another soldier at their
tank base in Managua, 25 kilometers (15 miles) east of Havana,
according to the interior ministry.


They fled with a pair of Kalashnikov assault rifles along with
700 bullets, the government said in the lone official statement
on the deserters' escape and capture.


Cuba's powerful police quickly launched a manhunt, alerting the
population by placing posters in Havana with pictures of Alain
Forbus, 19, Yoan Torres, 21, and Leandro Cerezo, 19, warning that
the men were "armed" and "dangerous."


Within days, thanks to the "most decisive support of the
population," one of the three was captured and revealed the plot
to flee to the United States, the statement said. According to a
diplomatic source, it was Forbus.


Torres and Cerezo, hiding in the suburbs of Havana, managed to
evade the police dragnet.


At around 2:00 am Thursday, the pair climbed aboard a bus in a
neighborhood near Havana's Jose Marti airport, according to
witnesses. A few passengers, including Lieutenant Colonel Victor
Ibo Acuna Velazquez, were in the bus despite the late hour.


Wielding the Kalashnikovs, the deserters forced the bus to speed
to the airport, where they stormed an empty Boeing 737, taking
with them several bus passengers as hostages, including Acuna,
witnesses said.


They began negotiating with authorities, demanding a pilot who
would fly them to Miami, a half-hour flight away.


According to the official statement, Acuna "heroically tried" to
stop the hijacking, a move that cost him his life. A witness said
the officer had grabbed a fire extinguisher but was gunned down
by two bullets.


The official statement gives no detail on the operation, except
to say that the authorities' "efficient and coordinated action"
had "saved the lives of the other hostages."


According to some witnesses, elite secret service agents
disguised as cabin crew boarded the plane and quickly detained
the would-be hijackers at 4:00 am. It was unknown Friday whether
the operation left any casualties.


Now in the custody of Cuban authorities, the two men, and their
previously captured companion, could face the death penalty.


Cuba said its arch-enemy, the US government, was to blame for the
incident, citing a US law that provides automatic legal residency
to Cubans who manage to set foot on US soil.


But the deserters would probably have had to face justice after
landing in the United States.


In March 2003, two planes were hijacked in separate incidents in
Cuba and forced to land in the United States, where the hijackers
were arrested, put on trial and sentenced to 20 years in prison.

