

The Welsh Assembly seems set for a coalition government after the
Labour Party lost overall control Friday, though it remained the
largest party despite a dismal performance in the principality.


Labour, which lost three seats to hold 26 in the devolved 60-seat
Cardiff assembly following Thursday's elections, now seems set to
form a coalition with fellow centre-left party the Liberal
Democrats, as they did from 2000 to 2003.


Plaid Cymru, the Welsh nationalists, will remain the official
opposition in the Senedd, gaining three seats to hold 15. The
Conservatives came third with 12 seats, followed by the Liberal
Democrats on six seats, with an independent taking the final
seat.


First Minister Rhodri Morgan said his Labour Party "haven't won
but haven't exactly lost."


He told ITV television: "We have confounded the doom-mongers and
we are very much the largest party," though no longer "dominant."


"One of the things which doesn't look possible is Labour
soldiering on alone," he conceded.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair was upbeat despite Labour's
performance.


"In Wales we are going to retain control and be the largest party
and be the government," he said.


After most results were declared, Labour was on about 32 percent
of the vote, Plaid Cymru 23 percent, the Conservatives 20
percent, and the Liberal Democrats 16 percent, the BBC said.


Labour's Welsh vote was its worst since World War I, it added,
saying Labour's vote was down 8.5 percent.


The National Assembly for Wales, or Cynulliad Cenedlaethol Cymru
in Welsh, first sat in 1999 and has limited powers over areas
like health and education. Labour has always been in power.


Some 40 single-member constituency seats were elected by the
first-past-the-post system, while 20 seats in five regions used
the additional member system.


The assembly also has its first ethnic minority member after
Pakistan-born Mohammed Asghar was elected for Plaid Cymru for the
South Wales East region.


Welsh Assembly election results (constituency seats, regional
list seats, gains/losses, total [60 seats]):


Labour             24  2  -3  26


Plaid Cymru         7  8  +3  15


Conservatives       5  7   0  12


Liberal Democrats   3  3   0   6


Others              1  0   0   1

