

A UN conference on non-proliferation was saved from collapse
Friday when delegates agreed to consider adopting a text to meet
Iranian concerns that it might be targetted at the meeting.


The chairman of the stalled conference on strengthening the Non-
Proliferation Treaty (NPT) had tried to assure Iran it was not
the object of an agenda item calling for full compliance with the
pact.


But the Iranian ambassador held to objections that have
deadlocked the two-week gathering since it opened on Monday.


A breakdown was avoided when non-aligned state South Africa
proposed the adoption of an explanatory text, soothing Iranian
concerns, saying that disarmament as well as compliance with NPT
rules against diverting peaceful nuclear uses to military ends
would be discussed.


The proposal is to be considered when the meeting resumes Monday.


The chairman, Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano, told the
conference that he would not change the draft agenda -- which
needs to be adopted for work on improving the NPT to begin -- and
which reaffirms the need for "full compliance" with the treaty.


However, Amano added that "full compliance" should be understood
to mean compliance with "all" NPT provisions -- even if he
declined to change the wording, as demanded by Iran.


Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh objected to the agenda
when Amano later tried to have it passed by consensus and said it
should be amended to say "full compliance with all provisions."


The European Union and Canada objected to this, saying the agenda
had already been worked out and that substantive discussions
should begin.


Soltanieh then said that the United States, which accuses Iran of
secretly developing nuclear weapons, was behind the emphasis on
compliance.


A Western diplomat said the US delegation was taking a low
profile at the meeting and watching developments without
interfering.


Tehran argues that emphasising compliance with all NPT provisions
would push states possessing nuclear weapons to keep their
promises on disarmament, rather than just criticize Iran over
violations of the treaty's nuclear safeguards.


Iran feels it is being singled out as it is currently defying UN
Security Council calls for it to suspend uranium enrichment, and
is in fact expanding its nuclear program despite sanctions from
the Council.


The conference is the first of a series preparing for a 2010
review conference on amendments to the treaty, which is the
world's fundamental document against the spread of nuclear
weapons.


Diplomats are concerned that the Vienna meeting could collapse
due to the same procedural wrangling that marred the last review
conference in New York in May 2005.


"Iran is trying to undermine this conference, this treaty,
because they understand that the treaty will be an occasion to
blame them," a second European diplomat said.


Iran is isolated as most non-aligned states and Western powers
accept the agenda but a consensus is needed from the 130 states
attending the conference on the 189-nation NPT. Syria and Cuba
backed Iran's objections to the agenda.

