

China's media largely ignored a landmark report on global warming
on Saturday as Beijing sweated through an unseasonal heatwave.


The China Daily, an English-language newspaper aimed largely at
foreigners, ran a front-page story on the report released in
Bangkok outlining measures needed to avert potential disaster
brought on by global warming.


However, China's most influential press, including the People's
Daily, the mouthpiece of the ruling Communist party, overlooked
it entirely.


Weather information indicates that China is already feeling the
effects of global warming.


Newspapers on Friday reported record temperatures in Beijing
which saw the mercury hit 31.9 degrees (89.4 degrees Fahrenheit)
on May 3, the highest in 40 years.


This followed the warmest winter on record in the Chinese
capital, when temperatures rose to 16 degrees Celsius in early
February, far above the normal average of around freezing.


In Bangkok on Friday, experts from 120 nations endorsed proposals
made by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
to fight global warming which they said were cheap and easy
enough for political leaders to act on right away.


But the only Saturday report of the summit in a mainstream
Chinese newspaper was in the Beijing Youth Daily which ran a five
paragraph factual account on page 10 attributed to China's
official news agency Xinhua.


On the Internet, the same Xinhua report was reproduced on the
leading Chinese portals like Sina.com and Sohu.com.


The Bangkok report called for simple measures like switching to
energy efficient light bulbs and adjusting the thermostat in the
office.


But it also included extremely controversial and complex
techniques such as nuclear power, and the storing of carbon
dioxide -- the major greenhouse gas -- underground instead of
letting it spew into the atmosphere.


Renewable energies, such as wind, solar and biofuel, were
highlighted as an important part of the mix, while the experts
said putting a price on using the fossil fuels that produce
greenhouse gases was important.


During the conference China, which fears a slowdown in its
surging economic growth, had led concerns about the price of
fighting global change.


Northeastern China and the Himalayan region of Tibet also
witnessed abnormally high temperatures during the winter months,
which were the warmest in both regions for decades.

