

Russia on Friday condemned the European Union for not
reprimanding Estonia on the treatment of its Russian-speaking
population and for "fostering the glorification of fascism."


In an angry statement, Russia's foreign ministry said the EU had
failed to act on its protests over recent actions by both Estonia
and its Baltic neighbour Latvia that it said sought to "re-
evaluate the results of World War II."


"Despite our repeated appeals to the EU... Brussels has ignored
the provocative lines taken by Tallinn and Riga... that insults
not just Russians but everyone who is against fascism and
extremism in Europe."


The statement said discrimination in both countries was fuelling
protests.


"As a result of these policies, amid the inaction of the European
Union, the Russian-speaking people of the Baltics have been left
without work or social prospects... creating an explosive
situation," the statement said.


Estonia and Latvia both have large Russian minorities, the legacy
of 50 years of Soviet occupation which ended in 1991.


Estonia was plunged into its worst diplomatic crisis since
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week when the
authorities removed a memorial to Soviet soldiers who fought in
World War II from central Tallinn.


Russia reacted furiously, claiming police brutality in the break-
up of ethnic- Russian protests against the decision, and saying
the crisis could affect Russia's relations with NATO and the
European Union.


Earlier Friday hundreds of teenage pro-Kremlin activists rallied
outside the European Union's Moscow headquarters to call for the
release of a fellow teenage activist arrested in Tallinn for
helping to organize protests.


Moscow city government also joined the protests against Estonia,
claiming police in Tallinn had "brutally beaten" one of its
officials in an unprovoked attack on Thursday, Interfax news
agency reported.


Anatoly Sorokin, deputy head of the international relations
department at Moscow city hall, who was on an official visit to
the city, was refused both medical help and access to the Russian
embassy, the report said.


A spokesman for the Estonian police force denied the accusations.


They said they had detained a "heavily drunk man" with a head
wound in the old town of Tallinn on Thursday.


"Police called an ambulance but the person became aggressive and
refused medical treatment," Estonian police spokesman Harrys
Puusepp told AFP.


"The medical emergency team established that the wound was not
serious and police took the man to a police station to sober up.


"He was so drunk he could not even utter his name. When the
police finally were able to establish his identity, the Russian
embassy was contacted and the consul met with the man at 5:00 am
(0200 GMT) Friday," Puusepp said.

