

The outcome of the French presidential election will have no
impact on the nation's relationship with the United States, the
French ambassador said Friday.


"Don't expect any changes in the main elements or components of
the foreign policy," said Ambassador Jean-David Levitte.


Levitte dismissed perceptions that relations were chilly between
the two countries and said that while the "style" of policy may
change under a new president the overall goals would not.


"You will see a number of comments in American papers saying it's
time to turn over the bitter page of 2003 but it has already been
changed," the French envoy said.


Franco-American relations had cooled in 2003 when Paris took a
leading role in the United Nations in opposition to Washington's
plans to invade Iraq.


"Jacques Chirac and George Bush - despite their big differences
in views and fight over the Iraq war - had a very cordial
relationship," Levitte said.


Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist Segolene Royal are
vying to succeed Chirac in Sunday's presidential election.


Speaking to the Chicago Council on Global Relations, Levitte
explained that foreign policy did not play a large role in the
presidential debates because there is a broad consensus in France
on the overall goals.


The priorities include further developing the European Union,
maintaining the NATO alliance and building better relations with
the countries along the southern rim of the Mediterranean.


Levitte also said it was time to stop the debate over the
legitimacy of the war in Iraq and focus on solutions.


"We don't think you can impose democracy through war -- democracy
has to come from within," he said.


"Lets help the Muslim countries to develop, as Indonesia did,
democratic institutions."


He warned that Iran was deeply involved in all the Middle East
conflicts because of its support of Hezbollah in Lebannon, Hamas
in Palestine and Shiite militias in Iraq.


The ambassador also expressed France's commitment to ending
Iran's suspected nuclear weapons drive.


"Each time we make progress on one (crisis) it has ripple
effect," he said.


The election also heralds a generational shift in French
politics, Levitte said, noting that regardless who wins, France
will have a for the first time a president who was not directly
influenced by the experience of World War II.


"That's very important in terms of impressions about the role of
France in Europe and in the world," he said.


A president who grew up under the European Union can be expected
to have a deep commitment to its institutions and values.


"For our next president it is the first priority," he said.


"The debate will be how to fix these institutions," he said,
noting that Sarkozy has argued for keeping Turkey out of the EU
while  Royal wishes to continue discussions.


Levitte outlined the challenges that the new French president
will face alongside his or her US counterpart: preventing a
global war of religion and overcoming the threat of Al-Qaeda;
finding a way to integrate the rising powers of China and Indian
into world affairs; and addressing global problems such as
climate change and cross-border health issues like bird flu and
SARS.


Levitte warned against possible isolationist moves by the US
Congress to restrict trade with China which could lead to a
"commercial war."

