

Unbeaten Floyd Mayweather weighed in at the heaviest mark of his
career here Friday on the eve of a showdown with Oscar de la
Hoya, who tipped the scales right on the super-welterweight
limit.


The US fighters engaged in one final staredown before Saturday's
bout to delight 7,000 fans, most cheering for de la Hoya, after
Mayweather weighed in at 150 pounds (68.03 kg) and de la Hoya
weighed in at 154 pounds (69.85 kg).


"Weight doesn't win fights. Popularity doesn't win fights. Skill
wins fights. That's what I have," Mayweather said. "I don't care
if he outweighs me by 25 pounds. I'm going to beat him when it's
all said and done."


Mayweather, 37-0 with 24 knockouts, is seen as boxing's best
pound-for-pound fighter while popular Mexican-American hero de la
Hoya, 38-4 with 30 knockouts, is set to pass Mike Tyson as
boxing's all-time pay-per-view revenue king.


"I feel really good. I feel strong and ready to go," de la Hoya
said.


Mayweather, 30, moves up to the heaviest weight class of his
career and will surpass his previous high for a fight, the 147
pounds he weighed 18 months ago in a sixth-round stoppage of
compatriot Sharmba Mitchell.


De la Hoya, 34, trimmed down his larger frame to defend his World
Boxing Council crown in only his second fight in 2 1/2 years. A
year ago, he stopped Nicaragua's Ricardo Mayorga in the sixth
round at 153 pounds.


De la Hoya's top weight was 160 pounds in a 2004 victory over
Felix Sturm.


Mayweather, the oddsmakers' favorite, has set the tone for pre-
fight hype aimed beyond boxing's traditional core fan base with
trash talking, playing the villain to boost interest in what
could be boxing's top-revenue fight ever.


"I've done enough talking," Mayweather said. "Now it's time to
fight."


Strategy will play a pivotal role in the fight, with de la Hoya
needing to take advantage of superior size to offset the youth
and speed advantages of Mayweather.


"It's a matter of controlling the pace, being smart out there,"
de la Hoya said. "He's a good tactical fighter. You just have to
be smart. It's all going to come down to speed and punching
power."


Veteran referee Kenny Bayliss, who officiated Mayweather's 1996
pro debut, was named to handle Saturday's main event with Chuck
Giampa, Jerry Roth and Tom Kazczmareck installed as judges.


Mayweather-de la Hoya is expected to rival boxing's all-time
moneyspinners with more than 100 million dollars in revenues.


"This is what everybody wants to see," Mayweather said. "I wanted
this fight because it is the biggest fight in boxing history."


De la Hoya and Mayweather have both hinted this might be the
final fight for each and the fight contract does not include a
rematch clause, although record revenues might lure them back
into the ring no matter the outcome Saturday.


"There's nothing else for me to prove," Mayweather said. "I've
beat everybody, made a ton of money. Now what? Keep fighting so
everybody can keep wishing I will lose. I'm not going to do
that."


Veteran trainer Emmanuel Steward, who once guided de la Hoya,
favors Mayweather because of his speed, youth and hunger to win a
grudge match.


"This is the fight Mayweather has wanted all his life. When you
have the fight you have been obsessed with it's hard to lose,"
Steward said.


"No one has ever physically handled him. Speed neutralizes a lot
of disadvantages. His ability to avoid punches with very little
movement is going to be important.


"Oscar has lost a lot of his speed. That goes with age. That will
be a problem. Oscar traditionally has not had success when he
fights people with fast hands. Oscar has to apply pressure. He
has to do it behind a left jab.


"Mayweather has a lot of smart moves. What he doesn't have is an
authoritative jab."


But Steward cautioned "Pretty Boy Floyd" against overconfidence.


"I would be concerned about overconfidence. Floyd and his camp
don't have any respect for Oscar and that's not right. They
should be confident," Steward said. "They may beat him. But I
think they're not respecting Oscar enough."

