

Guinea's new prime minister held talks with the military on
Friday after soldiers protesting over unpaid wages shot dead two
people and wounded dozens in riots, an aide said.


Government spokesman and Communications Minister Justin Morel
Junior told AFP that Prime Minister Lansana Kouyate went to
"Alpha Yaya camp negotiate with the military."


The experienced and respected international diplomat went into
talks after an extraordinary cabinet meeting was called Friday to
discuss the military crisis.


A soldier and a civilian night watchman were killed while 73
people, most of them civilians, were wounded in two days of
violent protest over pay increases and arrears in the west
African country.


"A corporal was killed yesterday (Thursday) by a sergeant at
Labe, where gunfire was heard on Wednesday and Thursday evening,"
a senior army official who asked not to be named told AFP.


Labe is in central Guinea, some 200 kilometers (120 miles) north
east of Conakry.


The soldiers riddled a security guard with bullets Thursday night
after he said he would denounce them after they left their
barracks in the town of Nzerekore in the east of the country, a
member of his family told AFP by telephone.


Thursday was the second night of trouble involving the military
who are demanding unpaid salaries totalling 300 million Guinean
francs (75,000 euros, about 100,000 dollars).


According to several witnesses, gunfire reverberated all night
from military camps in Macenta, some 800 kilometres (500 miles)
south of Conakry, Kankan, about 600 kilometres east of the
capital, and from southeastern Nzerekore and Faranah.


The army alleges that the authorities have been holding back
wages since 1996, the year when one mutiny claimed the lives of
300 soldiers.


Trouble started on Wednesday at the country's largest camp, Alpha
Yaya Diallo, situated near the airport and where ailing President
Lansana Conte's official residence is situated.


The camp houses elite commando and parachute units, and is also
the army headquarters.


On Wednesday night masked soldiers attacked and ransacked the
residence of Kerfalla Camara, the army commander.


Calm was reported to have returned Friday to the affected areas.


The rioting by an army that has shored up Conte's rule for years
is the first to hit the new government of consensus Prime
Minister Lansana Kouyate, who was appointed in April after weeks
of strikes against the regime.

