

Justine Henin extended her winning streak at the J and S Cup to
seven matches when she eased past unseeded Italian Mara
Santangelo 6-2, 6-1 here on Friday.


The top-seeded Belgian, who claimed the title in 2005, took just
65 minutes to reach the semi-finals, where she will face Serbian
Jelena Jankovic.


The number four seed benefited from the retirement of sixth
seeded Russian Anna Chakvetadze, who strained her right shoulder
late in the first set and conceded that match 7-6 (7/1), 3-1.


The second semi-final will be between unseeded Alona Bondarenko,
who also benefited from a retirement when fellow Ukrainian Julia
Vakulenko quit with a right wrist injury when trailing 6-2, 3-1,
and third seeded Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova, who edged past
unseeded American Venus Williams 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.


Henin faced just one break point as she strolled to victory over
Santangelo, who often returned well but had no answer to her
opponent's greater power and the stunning accuracy of her passing
shots.


One of those passes gave her the comfort of a 2-1 break, and a
double-fault from Santangelo then left her serving for the first
set. Henin extended her advantage in the second set, speeding to
a 4-0 lead and then sealing victory when Santangelo put a
backhand volley wide.


"My serve was much better today than it was yesterday," said
Henin.


"It was much more aggressive, and I felt like I was moving very
well also. I was able to pick up a lot of balls and had very good
defence. It's very positive and good to win this way and it gives
me confidence. It's only my second match on clay, so I'm very
happy about that."


Jankovic found herself under early pressure against Chakvetadze
as the Russian broke in the opening game. And although a double-
fault allowed her to level at 3-3, Jankovic found herself in
trouble again when Chakvetadze broke again to lead 6-5.


But Chakvetadze once again surrendered the advantage, lost her
serve, and then earned just one point in the tiebreak.


The Russian received treatment to her shoulder before commencing
the second set, but was clearly struggling as Jankovic broke her
to lead 1-0. A few minutes later, Chakvetadze surrendered the
match.


"I thought there was something wrong in the tiebreak," said
Jankovic. "We were both kind of the same and were holding the
level and all of a sudden she kind of gave up and her game
dropped completely.


Williams was almost unplayable in the early stages of her two
hour 21-minute battle with Kuznetsova, speeding to a 4-0 lead as
her powerful groundstokes prevented the Russian from establishing
a foothold.


But Kuznetsova eventually managed to compete on equal terms in
what was always an absorbing contest. Her forehand clicked and
earned her breaks for 3-1 and 5-1. And although Kuznetsova was
broken to love as she served for the set the first time, she made
no mistake with her second opportunity.


Williams then put herself into a winning position in the final
set, breaking to lead 4-2 but then surrendering the next four
games as Kuznetsova refused to concede.


"She was playing well and serving well, and I didn't serve so
many first serves so it was pretty hard," said Kuznetsova of her
tough start. "But I think I started to play well in the first set
already, and in the second I told myself it's a new set and I was
going to have chances and to keep fighting."


Williams was disappointed at the way the match had got away from
her.


"There were just so many errors," said Williams. "I gave away so
many free points. It's too much. I was just letting her stay in
the match. I wasn't happy at all."

