

Britain's newspapers on Saturday said the firm kicking given to
outgoing Prime Minister Tony Blair in mid-term elections had
finally livened up politics and set the stage for a new epic
duel.


Tabloids and quality publications alike looked forward to seeing
how finance minister Gordon Brown, Blair's presumed successor,
would revive the governing Labour Party from its poll drubbing,
and whether Conservative leader David Cameron could keep the
upper hand.


Labour lost control in the Scottish Parliament, was left looking
for a coalition partner to stay on in power in the Welsh
Assembly, and was given a battering by the Conservatives in
English local elections following Thursday's polls.


Considering the Blair era finished, newspapers were relishing the
prospect of a Brown versus Cameron dogfight, after a decade of
Blair running the government.


The Sun, Britain's biggest-selling daily, saw it as a "hammer
blow" for Brown, saying the loss of control in his own backyard
Scotland to nationalists was "an embarrassing disaster."


Citing Blair's claim that the results were a "springboard" to
Labour winning the next general election, "his springboard will
need industrial strength springs," the tabloid scoffed.


"The verdict on 10 years of New Labour is now in. The story is
one of under- achievement.


"Brown can turn it round -- just as Cameron can cement his
advantage. Within weeks they will square up. It will be exciting
to watch."


The front of The Times read: "Labour's election calamity."


Its editorial said it was "surreal" that Labour, dominant for a
decade, was rejoicing at only being reduced to 27 percent of the
vote in England while the Conservatives scored 40 percent.


"This is a very serious political warning indeed, not one that
can be deflated by obtuse and irrelevant statistical comparisons.
Labour is in trouble.


"These elections come at the end of an era. Mr Blair will soon be
history. Mr Brown is not sure how much of his legacy he can
afford to drop, while Mr Cameron is not certain how much more of
it he can seek to adopt.


"The one who strikes the right balance is the man who will be Mr
Blair's true successor," it said.


The Daily Mail said the real significance of the polls was that
they revealed the "phoney politics" of recent months, "in which
there has been a lame duck, discredited premier -- is now ending
and, slowly but surely, two-party politics is returning to
Britain.


"Now we prepare for what should be an epic struggle" between
Cameron and Brown.


The results "provide the most damning evidence yet that the once-
mighty Labour electoral machine has stalled," wrote the Financial
Times' political editor James Blitz.


"The next two or three years in politics remain highly volatile.


"Brown now has a mammoth task ahead of him."


The business daily's editorial said British politics was
competitive again, with all mainstream parties given plenty to
think about from the results.


"Amid the chaos, Scotland takes historic step," said The
Guardian's front page.


"Britain remains on a political fence, still able to fall either
way, back to Labour or towards its opponents. Only when the new
prime minister arrives will the country make up its mind which
way to go."


The Daily Express said the election was "a declaration that
Britain has had enough of Labour's stealth and spin."


"The prospect of a Conservative victory in a general election now
seems more likely than at any time in the past decade. As Gordon
Brown prepares to move into number 10, he must wonder how much
worse his timing could be."

