

The dollar slipped against other major currencies Friday on a
weaker-than- expected US jobs report but analysts said the data
was unlikely to spur a Federal Reserve interest rate cut next
week.


The euro rose to 1.3592 dollars at 2100 GMT, from 1.3549 dollars
in late trade Thursday.


The dollar stood at 120.11 yen, compared with 120.41 yen.


US government figures showed just 88,000 new jobs were created in
April, marking the weakest reading in almost two and a half
years. Most analysts had forecast April growth of at least
100,000 new positions.


The jobless rate ticked up to 4.5 percent from 4.4 percent.


The job snapshot came ahead of Wednesday's meeting of Federal
Reserve policymakers to deliberate interest rates, but several
economists said they expected the Fed to keep rates unchanged
next week.


The Fed's short term interest rate has been anchored at 5.25
percent since June.


While job creation was lackluster, the April record still
suggested the US economy was holding up.


Camilla Sutton, a currency analyst at Scotia Capital, said that
US economic weakness continued to increase the odds of a sharper-
than-expected Fed rate cut, creating an opportunity for dollar
selling.


"We think there is room for more aggressive Fed cuts than the
market is pricing as we move further into 2007," she said.


The currency market is waiting for the statement that will
accompany the interest rate decision by Fed policymakers next
week for clues to a possible move in June, notably in light of
recent weak US growth data, benign core inflation and Friday's
report revealing a sluggish labor market.


Elsewhere, the soft US data pushed the pound back above the
1.99-dollar level, with the currency set to remain in focus ahead
of a fully expected interest rate hike to 5.50 percent by the
Bank of England next week.


Markets will also be keeping a close eye on developments in
France, with the presidential election scheduled for Sunday and
in which a victory for favorite Nicolas Sarkozy is likely to
support the euro.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2108 Swiss francs,
compared with 1.2158 late Thursday.


The pound was traded at 1.9931 dollars, up from 1.9893.

