

The Welsh Assembly seemed set for a coalition administration
after the governing Labour Party on Friday registered a dismal
performance in the principality.


Labour remain the biggest party despite what the BBC said was
their worst vote since World War I in their Wales bastion, losing
three seats in the devolved Cardiff assembly.


They now hold 26 of the 60 seats following Thursday's elections
and seem set to form a coalition with fellow centre-left party
the Liberal Democrats, as they did from 2000 to 2003.


Plaid Cymru, the Welsh nationalists, will remain the official
opposition in the Senedd, gaining three seats to hold 15. The
Conservatives came third with 12 seats, followed by the Liberal
Democrats on six seats, with an independent retaining the
remaining seat.


First Minister Rhodri Morgan said his Labour Party "haven't won
but haven't exactly lost.


"We have confounded the doom-mongers and we are very much the
largest party," though no longer "dominant."


"One of the things which doesn't look possible is Labour
soldiering on alone," he conceded.


His Labour assembly members were to have "a free and open
discussion within the group on what's the best way forward."


Though unlikely, a Plaid-Conservative-Liberal coalition is a
possiblity. However, coalition talks cannot only drag on until
May 24 and the first minister must be sworn in by Queen Elizabeth
II on May 30.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair was upbeat despite Labour's
performance.


"In Wales we are going to retain control and be the largest party
and be the government," he said.


Labour was estimated to have won about 32 percent of the vote,
Plaid Cymru 23 percent, the Conservatives 20 percent, and the
Liberal Democrats 16 percent, the BBC said. Labour's vote was
down 8.5 percent.


Plaid Cymru secured a 4.5-percent swing from Labour in a
43.7-percent turnout of 978,132 voters.


The National Assembly for Wales, or Cynulliad Cenedlaethol Cymru
in Welsh, first sat in 1999 and has limited powers over areas
like health and education. Labour has always been in power.


Forty single-member constituency seats were elected by the first-
past-the-post system, while 20 seats in five regions used the
additional member system.


The assembly has its first ethnic minority member after Pakistan-
born Mohammed Asghar was elected for Plaid Cymru for the South
Wales East region.


Welsh Assembly election results (constituency seats, regional
list seats, gains/losses, total out of 60 seats):


Labour             24  2  -3  26


Plaid Cymru         7  8  +3  15


Conservatives       5  7   0  12


Liberal Democrats   3  3   0   6


Independent         1  0   0   1

