

The United States said Friday North Korea could shut down and
disable its key nuclear plant by the end of 2007 despite a hitch
in implementation of a pact to end its atomic weapons program.


North Korea has refused to take steps to shut down the Yongbyon
reactor by April 14 as pledged in a February agreement because it
has yet to receive 25 million dollars in funds frozen as a result
of US action in an Asian bank.


"I know there is a lot of concern and I share that concern about
the missed deadline," Christopher Hill, the US assistant
secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, told a
forum in Washington.


But he added, "I think we can put ourselves into the position
that by the latter part of this calendar year, we can get through
phase one and phase two and for us to work on phase three."


Under the February 15 pact, North Korea was given 60 days to shut
down the Yongbyon plant and allow international inspectors back
into the country in exchange for energy aid.


The second phase requires North Korea to disable the plant, from
which experts say it has produced enough plutonium to make up to
a dozen nuclear bombs, and also to open up its nuclear inventory,
including a controversial highly enriched uranium program.


Hill was hopeful that illicit North Korean funds frozen in a
Macau bank and scheduled to have been returned by March 15 under
the nuclear accord would be freed up soon. The process was said
to have been held up by "technical issues."


Once the funds were released and the North Koreans shut down the
Yongbyon facility, efforts could be made to fast track the
denuclearization process to catch up with lost time, Hill said.


The "disabling" process could be swift -- taking only "weeks not
months" -- and ways could be found to "frontload" some of the
energy aid to North Korea, he said.


"We can even recover some time lost in the first tranche," he
said. "We can believe we can get this second tranche done in this
calendar year."


The timetable for the North to disarm was adopted at six-party
talks involving the United States, China, Russia, the two Koreas
and Japan.


The United States, China, Russia and South Korea agreed to
provide 50,000 tonnes of fuel oil or the economic or humanitarian
equivalent once the initial steps were taken by North Korea.


The financially starved regime would receive an additional
950,000 tonnes of oil or the economic equivalent if it closed
down all of its nuclear facilities under the agreement.


The third phase of North Korea's denuclearization process
involves the actual dismantling and removal of the nuclear
facilities and Pyongyang's accounting for the up to 60 kilograms
of plutonium estimated to have been produced by the Yongbyon
plant.


Hill admitted there would be "another set of hard bargaining"
during the final phase.


But he chided pundits calling for the scrapping of the nuclear
accord with North Korea.


"So those people who say, how can you be so patient, why don't
you simply cut this off today. First of all, they really ought to
come forward with what we should do the next day -- why is
cutting it off better than giving more time in order to work."

