

The head of Scotland's pro-independence nationalists hailed
Friday as an "historic moment" as he eyed possible victory over
the ruling Labour party after parliamentary elections.


Alex Salmond said Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour party no
longer had a "divine right" to rule Scotland -- and said his
first act as first minister, if he wins, would be to order a
probe into chaos which clouded the polls.


"One of my first acts will be to announce an independent judicial
inquiry into the debacle of the 2007 Scottish parliamentary
elections," the Scottish National Party (SNP) head told a news
conference in Edinburgh.


He was speaking as his party and Labour had 40 seats apiece, with
108 of the 129 member of the Scottish parliament chosen.


Delays with postal voting and serious problems with new ballot
papers and electronic counting machines overshadowed Scotland's
most important vote in a generation.


Salmond said the situation had "offended every democrat in this
country and those watching around the world" and he would order a
"vigorous and robustly independent" inquiry into what went wrong.


Salmond said the results showed that Scotland had "changed for
good and for ever."


"It's not yet clear who has won this Scottish general election
but it's very clear indeed which party has lost this election.
The Labour party has no moral authority left to govern Scotland."


"This is a historic moment," he added.


The 52-year-old former oil economist said the SNP had won the
highest number of votes of any party in Thursday's election.


"If the SNP is given the chance to lead, we shall do so in the
national interest and not for political advantage," he added.


"We will lead with humility but also with passion. We will lead
with verve and imagination but also and always mindful that we
serve the people, all of the people, of this ancient and proud
nation of Scotland.


"There is an immense task ahead of the new government of Scotland
but it's one that should inspire not deter, it's one which should
accentuate the positive not the negative.


"It's one that should stress the 'can do' Scotland, not the
'can't do' Scotland."


The poll probe, in addition to one already announced by the
independent Electoral Commission, would have the widest possible
powers and a searching remit to determine why more than 100,000
Scots were disenfranchised.


"Scotland will demand no less," Salmond said. "If I am charged
with the responsibility of leadership I will deliver no less."


The technical problems clouded the vote for the parliament in
Edinburgh, which could see Labour in second place in Scotland for
the first time in 50 years.

