

Wall Street shares surged to fresh highs in the past week on a
seemingly unstoppable upward trajectory as investors cheered
swelling corporate profits and a flurry of mergers and
acquisitions.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index has set fresh record
highs almost daily in recent weeks despite darkening economic
clouds as the market braces for a May 9 meeting of the Federal
Reserve.


Most analysts expect the US central bank to keep its short-term
fed funds interest rate firmly pegged at 5.25 percent at the
meeting despite slowing economic growth.


The Dow index of 30 blue chips closed Friday at an all-time high
of 13,264.62, marking a weekly gain of 1.09 percent.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index meanwhile spiked
0.77 percent to end the week at 1,505.63 points, edging closer to
its all-time high of 1,527.46 struck in March 2000.


The tech-rich Nasdaq composite rose 0.58 percent for the week to
2,572.15.


Despite the solid gains, some analysts are warning that Wall
Street could be due for a pullback, especially as the first
quarter earnings season draws to a close and traders will be
refocusing on economic headlines.


"Unless you come with another catalyst to keep this party
rocking, you've got to look for the market to pull back," said
Marc Pado, a market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald.


Looming earnings reports from big retailers may not prove to be
too rosy, particularly following recent reports suggesting
consumers might be tightening their belts.


"We are growing wary of what might lay ahead in a couple of weeks
when the high profile retailers begin to report earnings," said
Frederic Dickson, a chief market strategist at DA Davidson &
Co.


"This could discourage the bulls and reawaken the bears," Dickson
said.


US economic growth slowed markedly in the first quarter to an
annualized 1.3 percent clip and a monthly job report Friday
showed hiring in April slowed to a weaker-than-expected 88,000
new positions amid an ongoing housing slump.


Analysts say a rate cut could help the housing market, but that
the Fed will not want to make any moves to ease rates before
being satisfied that inflation is under control.


Although the Fed is widely expected to keep rates unchanged in
the coming week, some analysts believe it could move to ease
rates later this year in a bid to stimulate the world's biggest
economy.


Aside from the Fed meeting, next week will also yield fresh
updates on inflation, retail sales, the US trade deficit with its
major trading partners, and snapshots on export and import
prices.


Retail sales are expected to moderate to a gain of 0.4 percent in
April following a 0.7 percent rise in the prior month while the
March trade deficit is expected to widen to around 60 billion
dollars.


Some analysts said that fresh mergers or takeovers could help
underpin stocks in the days ahead, however, following a flurry of
such deals in the past week.


Rupert Murdoch's News Corp empire unveiled a five-billion-dollar
takeover bid for Dow Jones & Co. in the past week,
Cablevision agreed a 22-billion-dollar takeover and Microsoft and
Yahoo were reported Friday to be exploring a possible merger or
alliance.


"All told, the reports next week should be fairly benign in terms
of the outlook for financial markets and slow to moderate growth
(expectations) of close to two percent in the second quarter,"
economists at Global Insight said in a briefing note.


Bond prices firmed amid the soft economic data.


The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond declined to 4.640 percent
from 4.698 percent a week earlier while the 30-year bond yield
dropped to 4.804 percent from 4.885 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

