

The Seattle Mariners pounced on the New York Yankees'
inconsistent pitching Friday, pounding out 20 hits in a 15-11
victory to open a four-game series.


Yuniesky Betancourt had a go-ahead two-run double in an eight-run
fifth inning as the Mariners won for the eighth time in 10 games.


Seattle overcame deficits of 5-0 and 8-6 as they triumphed for
just the fourth time in their last 15 visits to Yankee Stadium.


They did it with contributions from every member of their lineup.


Every Mariner had at least one hit but the most effective part of
the order was Kenji Johjima, Betancourt and Jose Lopez, who were
a combined 8-for-15 with nine RBI.


Johjima and Lopez homered off Yankees starter Kei Igawa. Johjima
connected in the second and Lopez homered in the fourth but each
played prominent roles in the fifth.


Johjima forged an 8-8 tie with a single to right and Betancourt
put Seattle ahead for good by lining a 3-1 pitch off center
fielder Johnny Damon's head.


The Mariners were hardly done as they sent 13 men to the plate
against Igawa, Colter Bean and Luis Vizcaino. The three pitchers
combined to throw 46 pitches and Bean took the loss by allowing
Betancourt's double.


Bean was so ineffective that Vizcaino replaced him after he fell
behind Lopez 2-0. Lopez finished the at-bat with a two-run single
to center and three batters later Raul Ibanez singled toright to
cap the inning.


The Yankees opened a seven-game homestand coming off a three-game
sweep in Texas that featured solid outings from Philip Hughes,
Mike Mussina and Andy Pettitte.


They were hopeful that Igawa would continue the trend, especially
when they scored five times in the bottom of the first off Cha
Seung-Baek.


Jorge Posada highlighted the inning with a two-run double and
Melky Cabrera capped it with an RBI single. After Igawa gave up
home runs to Johjima and Adrian Beltre, the Yankees took a 6-3
lead on Hideki Matsui's solo home run in the third.


The Mariners tied it in the fourth on Betancourt's RBI double and
Lopez's two- run home run. But the Yankees went ahead 8-6 on
Rodriguez's two-run double off Eric O'Flaherty.


The outburst overshadowed a sub-par outing by Baek, who is
filling in for the injured Felix Hernandez. Baek lasted 3 2/3
innings and was charged with seven runs and eight hits.


Despite giving up Rodriguez's hit, O'Flaherty pitched 2 1/3
innings for his first career victory. George Sherill gave up
Damon's three-run home run in the seventh and rookie Brendon
Morrow tossed a hitless eighth but gave up consecutive one-out
walks to Robinson Cano and Melky Cabrera in the ninth.


Closer J.J. Putz came on for the final two outs and loaded the
bases when he allowed a base hit to pinch hitter Jason Giambi.
But he retired Damon on a popout to first and got Jeter to ground
out on the first pitch for his sixth save in as many
opportunities.

