

Guitars played by The Grateful Dead's legendary front man and
gold records from the psychedelic-era band will be up for auction
to the group's famously cultish followers beginning Tuesday.


Rudson Shurtliff, an heir of a longtime Grateful Dead road
manager Lawrence "Ram Rod" Shurtliff, hauled the band mementos to
Bonhams & Butterfields in San Francisco for an auction
expected to attract bidders worldwide.


"It would be nice if the guitars could be used to make people
dance again. That's why they were built, not to be put in a case,
to be looked at and not touched," Shurtliff told AFP during a
preview of the items on Thursday.


"It would be nice if they could make people have a good time
again."


One of the guitars even has a broken string from the last time
that lead singer Jerry Garcia, whose death in 1995 caused the
band to dissolve, plugged it in and played.


"It's the string that Jerry broke and there are people that would
buy just that broken string in a heartbeat," said Jason Scheuner,
36, a friend of the family who is helping with the auction. "I'm
one of them. Scary enough."


Shurtliff, 35, said that while he is sad to see these things go,
it is what his father wanted before he passed away less than a
year ago.


It's a "unique opportunity for collectors of rock memorabilia as
well as Grateful Dead fans to get collectibles from one that is
so closely connected to the band," said Bonhams &
Butterfields representative Levi Morgan.


Morgan expects bidders from England, Germany, Japan, and France.
The May 8 auction will also be on the auction house's Internet
website at www.bonhams.com/us.


Shurtliff believes it is time to pass the mementos on to the
people who will enjoy them most: Grateful Dead lovers, often
known as Deadheads, who followed the 1960s-born San Francisco
band with near-religious passion.


Big ticket items include some of the band's "Wall of Sound" gold
records and Garcia-played guitars, including one dubbed "The
Eagle" and a circa 1975 electric guitar expected to fetch more
than 250,000 dollars.


Other items include two never-before-seen Garcia-drawn ink on
paper drawings, tie-dyed sound speaker boxes, photographs, a
concert rubber mat with dirt on it and an unopened box of Camel
non-filter cigarettes.


Shurtliff flits from item to item as they are unpacked in the
auction house.


There are travel-battered red flight cases with Grateful Dead
stickers and large black-and-white prints of the band from 1971,
when the band was just six years old.


One of the gold records has a water stain on the bottom because
it was rescued during a fire in the road manager's house in
Northern California while he was at a Grateful Dead concert.


The thing Shurtliff is most loath to part with is not from the
band, it belonged to his father. It is a 1971 Harley-Davidson
Sportster motorcycle that his dad drove to Dead shows, often with
Shurtliff riding on the back.


Wearing a black porkpie hat and leather jacket, Shurtliff climbs
on and reminisces about those rides.


"I'm selling it because my dad wouldn't want me to skin my knees
on it," Shurtliff said before laughing and threatening, only half
in jest, to fire it up and ride it around the warehouse.

