

Golf prodigy Michelle Wie will set aside her ambitions to take on
the world's top men golfers to focus on the LPGA, at least for
the near term, coach David Leadbetter said Friday.


"She hasn't got any PGA Tour events planned at the moment,"
Leadbetter said of the talented 17-year-old from Hawaii. "She's
going to commit herself to the LPGA and play a number of events,
and next year she'll probably take up membership."


Leadbetter, who was speaking during a visit to the PGA Tour's
Wachovia Championship, said he believed a focus on defeating
other women players would benefit Wie for now.


"She just needs to get her confidence going and just go play,"
Leadbetter said. "Now is the time to establish herself. My
feelings are that if she plays week in and week out on the LPGA,
she would win eight or nine times a year. She has the potential
to be that good, so why not, if you want to fulfill your
potential."


Wie was only 13 when she made her men's debut at the PGA Tour's
2004 Sony Open in Hawaii, her hometown event. She came within a
stroke of making the cut, but has progressively gotten worse in
subsequent appearances against the men.


Last September Wie finished near last in back-to-back tournaments
in Switzerland and Pennsylvania, and she also struggled at the
Sony Open in January.


"Playing the 84 Lumber (in Pennsylvania) was just crazy,"
Leadbetter said. "The course was 7,500 yards and wet. Talk about
horses for courses. If I was a horse, I would have withdrawn.


"The thing I've tried to explain to (Wie and her parents) is that
you have to work your way up the ladder. It's all well and good
to play a couple of (men's) events as a novelty, now let's look
at a long-term plan."


Wie, who has not played since January due to a wrist injury, is
scheduled to resume at the LPGA's Ginn Tribute in South Carolina
in four weeks.


Although she has struggled in her most recent outings, Leadbetter
said he believs Wie is a tremendous talent.


"She's the greatest talent I've ever seen at 16, boy or girl. If
she can keep going in that direction, and keep injury free, we'll
have an exciting time ahead."

