

Pro-independence nationalists were weighing up possible coalition
partners Saturday after winning control in the Scottish
Parliament, ending the Labour Party's 50-year domination in
Scotland.


In a historic result, The Scottish National Party (SNP) won the
narrowest of victories with 47 seats to Labour's 46, reshaping
the Scottish political landscape.


But British Prime Minister Tony Blair's governing Labour were
still well ahead of the third-placed Conservatives on 17,
followed by the Liberal Democrats on 16.


The Green Party won two seats and an independent secured one, but
Scotland's most important poll for a generation was dogged by
postal vote delays and serious problems with new ballot papers
and electronic counting machines.


Scotland's Labour First Minister Jack McConnell refused to
concede that his party would no longer form some part of the
administration in the 129-member Edinburgh parliament.


SNP leader Alex Salmond said the results showed Labour no longer
had a "divine right" to rule Scotland and had "lost its moral
authority" to govern, as observers saw the vote as a sign of the
end of Blair's electoral dominance.


"If the SNP is given the chance to lead, we shall do so in the
national interest and not for political advantage," said Salmond.


"We will lead with humility but also with passion. We will lead
with verve and imagination but also and always mindful that we
serve the people, all of the people, of this ancient and proud
nation of Scotland."


The SNP is expected to form a coalition, possibly with the
Liberal Democrats and the Greens, to secure a 65-seat majority.
Behind-closed-door negotiations will take place between parties
over the three-day public holiday weekend.


But the Lib Dems have said they will refuse to share power if the
SNP insists on its plans for a referendum on independence from
the United Kingdom by 2010.


The SNP win raises the prospect of finance minister Gordon Brown
being on a collision course with the nationalists within weeks of
him taking over from Blair as British prime minister, as seems
certain.


Brown has said he will not deal with a Scottish leader who wants
to break up the 300-year-old union with England and Wales,
threatening Scotland's economic stability and prosperity.


The technical problems that overshadowed the knife-edge count
prompted the independent Electoral Commission to announce an
immediate review into the chaos.


Analysts estimated that 100,000 papers may have been discounted
because they had not been filled in correctly.


Voters had two papers to complete: one for the Scottish
Parliament and the other for 32 municipal councils. Critics said
it was a mistake to count both at the same time as they use
different voting systems and confused people.


In some parliamentary constituencies, the number of spoilt papers
exceeded the winning candidate's majority.


It was a "masterclass in how not to run an election," The Times
newspaper said Saturday.


"The lesson is clear: myriad voting systems on the same piece of
paper are neither necessary nor good for democracy. If there is
one thing worse than voter apathy, it is voter bewilderment," its
editorial said.


Scotland's first minister has to be appointed by May 30.


Salmond described the situation as a "debacle" and said one of
his first tasks if he gets the post would be to order a "vigorous
and robustly independent" inquiry into what went wrong.


The election itself saw the SNP make key gains over Labour,
including in Dundee West and Central Fife -- both in Brown's
backyard.


"Jocks sock it to Gord," The Sun newspaper said.


The SNP notched up a historic majority share of the national vote
for the first time with a 5.8-percent swing from Labour. The
turnout was 51.8 percent at 2,016,978.


The nationalists also took Stirling, the area most synonymous
with Scottish independence after underdog victories against the
English by "Braveheart" William Wallace in 1297 and by Robert the
Bruce in 1314.

