

To her critics, she is a symbol of shallow materialism, naked
ambition and unbridled arrogance. But Paris Hilton has never felt
the need to apologise for living a jet-setting lifestyle.


The 26-year-old heiress to the Hilton hotel empire, who was
handed a 45-day prison sentence on Friday, acquired a taste for
luxury as a child, including a period when her family lived in a
suite at New York's Waldorf Astoria Hotel.


The eldest of four children, Hilton stands to inherit a 30 to 50
million dollar slice of her family's hotel fortune.


But she has become independently wealthy in the past decade
thanks to her looks, her name, and her knack of making headlines
at key moments in her life.


"A lot of my friends still don't have a job and they live at home
and have to ask their parents for everything," she said in a
recent interview.


"I haven't accepted money from my parents since I was 18. Since
then, I've worked on my own. It feels good that I don't ever have
to depend on a man or my family for anything."


A high-school drop-out, Hilton first began to be noticed while
working as a model for property tycoon Donald Trump's agency,
rapidly acquiring a reputation as a party girl along with her
sister, Nicky Hilton.


But it was the release of an Internet home sex video featuring
her and then boyfriend Rick Salomon which catapulted her into the
public consciousness.


Hilton professed herself to be mortified at the appearance of the
sex tape, but skeptics have noted that it appeared just before
the premiere of her reality television show "The Simple Life."


Reports said Hilton eventually received a 400,000-dollar cut of
the video's DVD and Internet profits. The heiress said in an
interview last year she never received any payment from the lurid
enterprise.


Hilton's burgeoning notoriety reaped rich dividends in any case.


"The Simple Life," in which she starred with friend Nicole
Richie, featured the two pampered celebutantes living with a
family in rural Arkansas, forced to muck in with menial chores
and adapt to a modest existence.


The series was to prove spectacularly successful, spawning
several follow-up seasons. A fifth series is to premier in the
United States later this month.


At the same time, Hilton has nurtured money-spinning parallel
businesses, endorsing jewelry, perfume and clothing lines whilst
pursuing acting and music careers, with varying degrees of
success.


She has her own channel on the Internet video site YouTube which
is reputed to be the 34th most subscribed channel on the service,
with over 10,000 subscriptions and 2 million views.


In fact, if Hilton is to be believed, she is well on the way to
superseding her family's hotel empire heritage.


"Even my grandpa said to me, 'You work harder than any of my CEO
friends or anyone I know'. He's like, 'People are calling me
Paris Hilton's grandpa, they don't call me Barron Hilton'," she
told an interviewer.


Hilton's party-loving lifestyle has led to her being romantically
linked to a number of famous faces, including actor Leonardo
DiCaprio and boxer Oscar DeLaHoya.


She was engaged to Greek shipping heir Paris Latsis but scrapped
wedding plans before declaring in July last year that she had
taken a one-year vow of chastity.


"I'm doing it just because I want to," she told interviewers. "I
feel I'm becoming stronger as a person.


"Every time I have a boyfriend, I'm just so romantic, and I'll
put all my energy into the guy, and I don't really pay attention
to myself.


"One-night stands are not for me. If they want you, then they
will wait."


Despite her self-imposed sex-ban, she continues to be linked with
a string of suitors, and has regularly been photographed
smooching while out on the town.

