

Former world heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis and veteran
trainer Emmanuel Steward see little hope for big-money boxing
spectacles after Saturday's Oscar de la Hoya-Floyd Mayweather
showdown.


Audience and revenue records are likely to fall when the US
fighters meet for de la Hoya's World Boxing Council super-
welterweight title, but the biggest fight in five years has no
mighty follow-up act.


"This fight is extremely important for boxing," Steward said. "It
will probably have more viewers than any fight in history. It
will break money records. If it turns out to be a good fight it
will be tremendous for boxing.


"Boxing is dead? I don't think so. If you make competitive
matches, people will support them."


But Steward does not feel the excitement in this boxing mecca as
he did a generation ago when Sugar Ray Leonard, Marvin Hagler and
Tommy Hearns battled.


"There was more electricity in the air for Hearns and Leonard and
Hagler," he said. "This has been (merely) a well-promoted fight."


"I don't even see another superfight on the horizon."


Retired British star Lewis won the last superfight in 2002,
beating Mike Tyson to keep the heavyweight title and setting a
pay-per-view record with 106.9 million dollars.


Lewis sees the lack of a superstar heavyweight as part of the
sport's woes, with the current Eastern European champions not
inspiring global interest to the level he, Tyson and Evander
Holyfield had.


"It's always important for another heavyweight to step up," Lewis
said. "All I needed to do is what comes naturally and it was
exciting."


Lewis, who was 41-2 with 31 knockouts, will not be ending his
retirement to help rescue the relevance of boxing, however.


"No, I haven't had a change of opinion on that," Lewis said. "The
legacy lives on."


Lewis was the last man to unify the heavyweight crown. Now most
divisions have three rival champions and fewer of the unification
bouts that fight fans cherish most.


"The sport is alive and well. It's just a matter of making the
right fights," de la Hoya said.


"I don't think there's pressure on my shoulders to save boxing.
It's not a dying sport. There are still big fights here, in
England, in Germany."


But with popular de la Hoya, 34, thinking more about promoting
fights than winning them, the superfight era is clearly down for
the count.


"I don't think we will have megafights for a while. Good fights
but not megafights," he said. "That's the big challenge to us as
promoters. Boxing will take a hit. But it will never be out."

