

A heavyweight in the governing Labour Party said Saturday he
would not stand in the way of Gordon Brown becoming the party's
next leader, and therefore Britain's prime minister.


Former home secretary Charles Clarke -- who has previously
savaged finance minister Brown -- told The Times newspaper that
he would not stand in the leadership election once Prime Minister
Tony Blair steps down.


It means that red-hot favourite Brown is all the more unlikely to
face a Blair loyalist challenger, giving him a virtually clear
run to grasp power within months.


Blair is expected to announce his departure plans next week.


In a withering attack last September, Clarke accused Brown of
being a cowardly "control freak" with profound "psychological"
issues, who "can't work with people."


But he told The Times: "I am not going to run in the leadership
election.


"I was ready to run. I was considering running. I think I would
have had the support to be nominated."


The former interior minister, also an ex-education secretary,
said his interest in standing was purely to trigger a debate
about the party's future direction.


"There's the issue of the possibility of a division, possibly
bitter division, around personalities and so on which would be
very, very damaging," he said about his decision not to run.


"There isn't an appetite for that kind of contest in the party at
the moment."


Clarke, part of a cabal opposed to chancellor of the exchequer
taking over, said he would be prepared to serve in a Brown
cabinet, if asked.


"We've always had a perfectly reasonable relationship. He knows I
will tell him what I think, I've always done it, he's never
resented it."


In February, Clarke and former health secretary Alan Milburn
launched a website, The 2020 Vision, to debate future policies
with both the party and the public.


Many commentators saw it as a move to provoke a heavyweight
leadership challenger to Brown -- though none has yet come
forward.


Bookmakers Paddy Power price Brown at 1-50 to become the next
Labour leader.


Labour suffered heavy mid-term losses in Thursday's polls.


The centre-left party was overtaken by nationalists as the
biggest party in the Scottish Parliament, left seeking a
coalition partner to keep on in power in the Welsh Assembly and
was battered in English local elections.

