

The United States said Friday it was not required to comply with
a WTO ruling to open its borders to the multibillion dollar
Internet gambling industry because of an "oversight" in a decade-
old trade agreement.


US officials said they were submitting documents to "clarify"
Washington's commitment to "recreational services," which was
interpreted in a WTO dispute settlement as including a commitment
to allow cross-border Internet gambling services.


The clarification "should dispose of this matter," said Deputy
United States Trade Representative John Veroneau.


The US announcement was the latest development in a four-year-old
dispute with the Caribbean nation Antigua and Barbuda, which sued
the US at the World Trade Organization alleging failure to comply
with global trading rules, and won.


But Veroneau said the dispute stems from a lack of clarity in the
1993-1994 negotiations that led to the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Services (GATS).


Veroneau said that the US commitment to free trade in
"recreational services" was not intended to included Internet
gambling, which did not exist at the time.


The commitment to opening up recreational services "doesn't
explicitly include gambling nor does it necessary exclude it,"
Veroneau said.


"It didn't occur to us that this could include gambling until
Antigua brought this case in 2003."


"Clearly that was an oversight in the drafting," he said.


"The process we are starting today would allow us to clarify our
schedule and make clear that we did not intend and do not intend
to have gambling included in our services agreement."


US officials said Article 21 of the GATS agreement allows a
member to file clarifications to their original schedule of
commitments, although this procedure has only been used once
before.


Under the procedure, an affected country may file a claim for
compensation that may be subject to arbitration at the WTO. A
finding against the US might allow a country to retaliate by
restricting some services, US officials said.


It was not immediately clear how the US action would affect the
current case before the WTO.


The WTO said the United States must modify its laws to comply
with the ruling.

