

The United States called steps Friday by Zimbabwe's ruling party
to give embattled President Robert Mugabe another term in office
"sad" and "outrageous."


The State Department also chided Zimbabwe's neighbors for not
taking a firmer stand against a recent violent crackdown by
Mugabe's government on his political opponents when they held a
regional summit meeting this week.


Mugabe, 83, was chosen on Friday by his ruling ZANU-PF party to
stand again as its candidate in presidential elections next year.


The main opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) called
the decision a "tragedy" for the country, which Mugabe has ruled
with increasing authoritarianism for 27 years.


"It's sad, it's outrageous and certainly we hope better for the
Zimbabwean people," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack
said when asked about Mugabe's bid for another term in office.


"The situation in Zimbabwe obviously can't continue as it is," he
said, referring to the deteriorating economy and humanitarian
situation under Mugabe's government.


McCormack also lamented the outcome Thursday of a summit of 14
southern African states which Washington had hoped would condemn
Mugabe's recent actions, but which instead adopted a declaration
expressing solidarity with Africa's oldest leader.


"It's safe to say that we would have wished for something a bit
stronger out of the SADC," he said, using the acronym for the
South African Development Community.


"We can take heart however that they actually did have this
summit meeting and actually did get together to actually discuss
the issue of Zimbabwe, if they didn't necessarily take the
actions that one might have hoped they would take," he said.


African officials said the summit was more critical of Mugabe
behind closed doors, but McCormack said the meeting "fell short"
of sending the clear signal to the Zimbabwean leader that
Washington had hoped.


McCormack suggested that Mugabe had become emboldened by the
relatively mild response from his peers.


"Clearly he's become very intransigent in the face of a lot of
international pressure," he said.


The US spokesman said it was more important than ever for
Zimbabwe's neighbors, and particularly South Africa, to take a
tougher stance.


"We've encouraged them to do everything that they possibly can,"
he said.


"The key to whatever solution is arrived at in Zimbabwe is going
to be the efforts of South Africa as well as others of Zimbabwe's
neighbors," he said.


The United States and other governments have already imposed
various sanctions on Mugabe's government and McCormack said
Washington was exploring other measures it can take to increase
pressure on the regime.

