

Faced with hostile voters and the towering hurdle of becoming the
first female US president, Hillary Clinton is leaving nothing to
chance as she artfully remakes herself on her drive for the White
House.


The leading Democratic candidate has already managed a
metamorphosis from First Lady and chief White House hostess to a
powerful senator representing New York.


But new, unfamiliar facets of Clinton, 59, keep surfacing as she
crosses the country seeking support for her campaign: the female
candidate hugging babies, the rights activists in the deep south,
the comforter of the mother of a soldier killed in combat; or the
technocrat discussing agricultural science with New England
farmers.


Clinton has come a long way from the woman behind husband and
president Bill Clinton, the woman humiliated on national
television when Bill admitted having a sexual dalliance with
White House intern Monica Lewinsky.


Since then, she has transformed herself into a calculating and
redoutable presence on the US political scene, the main 2008
candidate to be reckoned with.


"We have seen lots of Hillaries over the years, but as everyone
who runs for president, she has to reinvent herself to some
extent," Linda Fowler, a political scientist at Dartmouth College
in New Hampshire, told AFP.


Last month she set herself out as a patron of the US military and
their families when she proposed initiatives to improve treatment
for soldiers injured in Iraq and Afghanistan.


She also showed up in Alabama making a passionate plea to
continue the fight for civil rights for black Americans -- though
her speaking with a non-native southern accent at that venue did
not escape humorists and her many tough critics.


It is a deliberate positioning designed to maximise her
attractiveness to the widest range of voters, according to
political analysts.


"Her strategy is to appear as the inevitable candidate and use
it," said Dean Spiliotes of Saint Anselm College in New Hampshire
in the northeast.


Spiliotes noted her huge advantages: her experience, her support,
starting with spouse Bill, who remains widely popular; her team
of experienced advisers, and her ability to raise substantial
funds for her campaign.


The New York Times, which has followed her campaign closely for
months, catalogued jokingly Clinton's numerous facets: "the
nurturing warrior, the listener, the sister act, the listener,
the tough hostess."


More toughly, the Washington Post baptised her "Candidate
Cliche," citing calculated and "anodyne" platitudes and posturing
in her appearances.


Spiliotes pointed out that Clinton, perceived as relatively
conservative and a backer of the Iraq war, has come under huge
pressure from the left wing of the Democrats. She has also had to
reshape her position to appease the majority of the electorate
that now opposes the war.


While issuing sharp critiques of President George W. Bush's
handling of the war, her makeover hasn't gone far enough for
some: she still refuses to call her 2002 vote in Congress to
authorise the war an error.


"She can't afford to misspeak, Fowler said. But, she added, "It
is not necessarily a bad thing that someone who wants to be
president chooses her words carefully."


Caution has benefited Clinton. In a March poll Democratic voters
favored her over rising star Barack Obama 40 percent to 28
percent to be chosen the party's nominee for president in
primaries early next year.


It has also benefited her campaign chest, which pulled in some 10
million dollars just in the past week.


Clinton's reincarnation as a serious political player began when
she entered the Senate in January 2001, said Karlyn Bowman, a
polls expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.


Bowman noted how she worked extremely hard at the new job,
studying all the current issues, making friends in the Congress
regardless of party -- an essential step toward the White House.


Even so, Bowman pointed how how Clinton's personality continues
to divide Americans, with as many as 48 percent saying they still
have an unfavorable view of her.

