

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar insists his team of Asian young
guns will not be intimidated by playing in the World Cup Super
Eights.


Bangladesh have succeeded where mighty Pakistan and India both
failed by reaching the second round and were taking on world
champions Australia in the first of their six Super Eights games
here on Saturday.


"The team has got a lot of performers these days. At the moment
we are beating some top sides," said Bashar.


"We beat New Zealand in a warm-up game and we had a good win
against India (in the first round). We now strongly believe that
if we play together, we can beat anyone."


Bashar, 34, is leading one of the youngest teams at this World
Cup. For example, opening batsman Tamim Iqbal, who made 51
against India, only turned 18 earlier this month.


And their captain said Bangladesh's lack of experience has given
the side a fearlessness they might not otherwise have.


"Sometimes when you play a team like India, if you think too
much, plan too much, it is not going to happen. It's better to go
out there with a positive mind and play whatever you can. Don't
think too much, that's what we're planning to do.


"We had a team talk and I heard from all the boys they think they
are not finished yet. They want to do something in the Super
Eights as well," said Bashar.


Looking ahead, Bashar said there was less pressure now on
Bangladesh than in the first round where, after losing to fellow
qualifiers Sri Lanka following their win against India, they had
to beat minnows Bermuda to secure their place in the Super
Eights.


"Everyone has been saying the Super Eights will be tougher but I
believe the first round was tougher for us because every game we
played was like our last game. But in the Super Eights we will
have a chance to play six games."


Bangladesh are not the only team to have caused an upset at this
World Cup. Ireland's defeat of Pakistan sent the 1992 winners
crashing out of the tournament and Bashar said such results were
good for cricket as a whole.


"The performances of Ireland an Bangladesh show that cricket is
getting bigger and that teams who are not at the top of the
rankings can still do something in this competition."

