

Mexico's Lorena Ochoa shrugged off a double bogey to post a
second-round 71 here Friday and seize a share of the lead with
Paula Creamer in the Kraft Nabisco Championship.


Ochoa, the 2006 LPGA Player of the Year who could supplant Annika
Sorenstam as world No. 1 by capturing her first major title here
this week, started the day one shot off the lead.


Her round included five birdies along with two bogeys and the
double bogey at 15 and gave her a two-round total of 140.


"I'm really happy being 4-under right now," Ochoa said. "I
started on the back nine, and I was trying to get into the
rhythm, hitting my driver, one left, one right. I didn't really
know what to do.


"So I made one double bogey and two bogeys, so just being able to
finish under par on this course really makes me feel good. The
only thing that was important was being in a good position for
the weekend, good position for tomorrow. I'm in a good position."


Creamer fired a 67 to join Ochoa atop the leaderboard.


The 20-year-old American had five birdies in her bogey-free
round.


"I hit the ball really good, gave myself a lot of chances,"
Creamer said. "I missed, I think, two fairways, one was really in
the rough, one was the first cut. I think I hit almost every
green.


"So I gave myself a lot of chances and we'll take it. But two
more days left - that's a lot of golf."


The pair had a one-shot lead over first-round leader Shi Hyun Ahn
of South Korea (73) and Norway's Suzann Petersen (69).


South Korean Se Ri Pak fired a 70 for 142 and sole possession of
fifth place.


Pak, whose 23 career LPGA victories include five major
championships - the LPGA Championship in 1998, 2002 and 2006, the
US Open in 1998 and the Women's British Open in 2001, could
complete a career Grand Slam this week.


Swedish superstar Sorenstam, however, continued to struggle,
carding a 76 for a seven-over total of 151, making the cut with
just two strokes to spare.


"I'm very disappointed and can not explain why it has not worked
out this week," Sorenstam said. "I'm like sparkling water without
the fizz. I gave 100 percent, but what can you do? I just have to
hope that it is better over the weekend."


Defending champion Karrie Webb of Australia ballooned to a 77
that put her at 147.


"I just didn't leave myself good shots on the green today," Webb
said.


Ochoa, who lost to Webb in a playoff here last year, showed her
resilience as she rebounded from her double at 15, where her tee
shot landed in the right rough, and her attempt to get out
advanced the ball less than 15 yards - and left it in the rough.


Her third shot stuck in the lip of a bunker, and her ensuing chip
ran through the treen and into the rough.


Finally she chipped to four feet and made the putt, consoling
herself with the thought that she was still 1-under for the
tournament.


"And under par is always a good score in a major," she said.


At the par-3 17th she blasted her tee shot within two feet of the
hole and made it, and she added a birdie at 18.


She gave a shot back with a birdie at one, but made a good par
save at the second and sank par putts at the next two.


"Those were the key," Ochoa said. "That really changed, just
making them, giving me relief and I kept myself in good
position."

