

A leading New Zealand biotechnology researcher is to start trials
in Russia next month on transplanting pig cells into diabetics,
following claimed success with a test case begun in 1996.


The trials will be carried out while health officials consider
whether Professor Bob Elliott should be allowed to resume his
work in New Zealand, where authorities are concerned about the
possible spread of pig-borne disease.


Elliott is medical director of Australian-based Living Cell
Technologies (LCT), which said three regimens would be tested in
Russia in order to find the most appropriate, long-lasting and
effective transplant possible.


In a statement received Saturday, LCT said it had recently
published evidence showing the live pig "islet cells"
transplanted into a human diabetes patient more than a decade ago
are still producing insulin.


"This has never been achieved before," Elliott said.


"It is a profound step forward for safe, effective and long-term
diabetes control and shows the ability for pig cells to survive
inside a human for an extended period of time and without immune
suppression."


The patient, Michael Helyer, now aged 51, is certain the
treatment received in 1996 has helped him.


"It's not about having fewer injections, it's about getting more
control. You can't live a normal life if you're in fear of (blood
sugar) levels getting too high or low all the time," he said.


In the latest issue of the scientific journal
Xenotransplantation, LCT said Helyer's glycated haemoglobin
levels remained lower than the pre-transplant levels, pointing to
improved long-term control of blood glucose levels.


Elliott's 1996 trials in New Zealand were blocked by health
officials because of concerns that the transplant of pig cells
might introduce swine diseases into the human population.


LCT now wants to use breeding lines of pigs left behind in the
sub-antarctic Auckland Islands in 1852 and which have not been
exposed to modern viruses.


LCT chief executive Paul Tan said it is believed to be the most
disease-free pig population in the world.

