

Football legend Diego Maradona remained in hospital Friday for
alcoholic detoxification, two days after being admitted, with a
psychiatric nurse by his side, the hospital director said.


"Maradona remains under treatment with sedatives, ... and support
medications. There have been new routine tests, which have shown
acceptable results," Hector Pezzella, the medical chief at Guemes
Hospital, told reporters.


Pezzella said that while Maradona, 46, was "fully into a period
of recovery," he was drowsy given the sedatives he has been
receiving "to avoid withdrawal symptoms."


"He is stable and is progressing very well ... he did wake up and
he ate breakfast," Pezzella added, noting that eating on his own
was a sign of progress.


Maradona awakened twice early Friday and is aware he is in
hospital, the doctor said, noting "he was at no point
aggressive."


The ex footballer's personal physician Alfredo Cahe earlier had
said Maradona was admitted against his will and had to be
sedated.


Pezzella said Maradona was expected to be treated in hospital
until some time next week as in cases of alcoholic detoxification
a patient is released five to seven days after being admitted for
inpatient treatment.


Should Maradona decide to leave before then, Pezzella said,
doctors would allow him because "his life is not in danger."


The football icon has a psychiatric nurse as well as a clinical
nurse constantly on duty. And his daughters Dalma and Giannina,
and a few close friends were staying in a room alongside
Maradona's.


Cahe also has said Maradona has been depressed in recent weeks.


While both Pezzella and Cahe have denied Maradona's treatment was
related to use of any illegal drugs, they said it was likely he
had replaced a dependency on cocaine with alcohol.


In early March Argentina's central bank began collecting
information about Maradona's bank accounts, suggesting the
football great was under investigation for tax evasion.


Voted one of the best players of the 20th century and revered
like a god in Argentina, Maradona has a history of drug addiction
and was hospitalized in 2000 and 2004 for cocaine overdoses.


Born October 30, 1960 just outside Buenos Aires, Maradona shares
the FIFA title of the 20th century's best player with Brazil's
Pele after a stellar career with Boca Juniors, Barcelona and
Napoli.


He scored 50 goals in 115 games for Argentina during his 21 years
as a football star. He proved his genius in the 1986 World Cup
finals in Mexico, with a series of brilliant displays that led
Argentina to the title.


But like much of his career, even that star turn was dogged by
controversy.


His first goal was the notorious "Hand of God" effort, which saw
Maradona fist the ball over England goalkeeper Peter Shilton.


His second goal in that match, however, has been called one of
the most brilliant ever in the game.


Since Maradona's retirement at 37, scandals have continued to
surround him, including marital infidelity and drugs.


In 2005 he found a new and successful career in television,
hosting a widely watched show called "The Night of 10," referring
to his iconic Argentina jersey number.


In 2005 he underwent gastric bypass surgery in Colombia.


Newspaper photographs early this month appeared to show he had
regained many of the 50 kilograms (110 pounds) lost in his crash
weight-loss treatment. Another showed him in a Buenos Aires
nightclub with an injured nose after falling off a chair.

