

UN chief Ban Ki-moon vowed on Saturday to work toward a permanent
ceasefire between Lebanon and Israel, as he toured a border area
devastated by last summer's war.


"I am still working to change the cessation of hostilities to a
ceasefire agreement," Ban said at the headquarters of the UN
Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) in the border town of Naqura.


The UN force is monitoring an truce agreement reached under UN
Security Council Resolution 1701, which ended a 34-day war
between Israel and the Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah
last August 14.


UNIFIL, which was set up in 1978 after Israel's first large-scale
invasion of Lebanon, was beefed up after last year's war to
12,997 peacekeeping soldiers from 30 countries. It includes
11,302 ground troops and 1,695 naval personnel.


The UN force is patrolling southern Lebanon along with Lebanese
soldiers who deployed along the border for the first time in
several decades after the war.


"I hope the calm being witnessed on the ground will continue and
the close cooperation with the Lebanese army will continue," he
said, after revewing a blue-helmetted honor guard.


He promised to maintain "the United Nations commitment to support
the people of Lebanon."


Ban said the UN force continued to be vigilant and reiterated
that arms were being illegally smuggled into Lebanon.


"I am concerned about reports of smuggling. We do face some
challenges and potential threats. The UN has to be vigilant, but
the situation is rather calm," he said, without giving details.


Hezbollah and some other Islamist groupings in Lebanon are
suspected by Israel of continuing to receive arms via Syria in
breach of Resolution 1701.


Israel has ignored UN complaints over its continuing violations
of Lebanese airspace, saying overflights were necessary because
of the arms being smuggled into Lebanon.


After meeting with UNIFIL commanders in Naqura, Ban flew by
helicopter to tour other peacekeeping positions in the south as
well as areas along the volatile border between Lebanon and
Israel.


The UN chief was due to end his visit to Lebanon later on
Saturday.


During talks with Lebanese leaders in Beirut on Friday, Ban said
"violations of Lebanese sovereignty must stop."


He also called for dialogue to end Lebanon's internal political
crisis and the prompt creation of a court to try suspects in
former premier Rafiq Hariri's murder. The killing has been widely
blamed on powerful neighbour Syria, which has strongly denied any
involvement.


The secretary general urged leaders on both sides of the
political divide to pursue dialogue in order to reach national
reconciliation and end the country's most damaging crisis since
the end of the 1975-1990 civil war.


The Damascus-backed opposition consider Lebanon's Western-backed
government illegitimate after all five Shiite Muslim ministers
resigned last November.


The country has since been paralysed as the opposition insists on
an enlarged unity cabinet in which it would wield a veto -- a
demand rejected by the ruling majority.


The pro-government camp accuses the opposition of acting under
Syrian pressure to paralyse political institutions in Lebanon and
block the creation of the Hariri court.


Hariri's murder triggered domestic and international protests
which forced Syria to end 29 years of military domination of its
neighbour in April 2005.

