

At least 22 Islamists were arrested in overnight raids as
Bangladesh strengthened security nationwide on Saturday after
authorities hanged six top Muslim militants, police said.


The 22 Islamists, all alleged activists of the group Hizbut
Tahrir Bangladesh, were arrested as they watched anti-US footage
of the Iraq war at a house in the capital Dhaka, city police
chief Nayeem Ahmed said.


"We have arrested them on suspected extremist links. We found
videos showing the US war in Iraq, leaflets and other suspicious
extremist materials. They also broke the government's emergency
laws on political gatherings," he said.


Hizbut Tahrir, which aims to establish a global Islamic empire
through peaceful political means, is banned in many countries but
not in Muslim-majority Bangladesh.


Police said they also carried out raids across the country, one
day after six top Islamic militants, including the leader of the
outlawed Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), were executed in
four different jails.


The militants were sentenced to death last year for an attack
that killed two judges in November 2005. Authorities say the JMB
was also behind 400 coordinated blasts that shook the country in
August that year.


An additional 2,000 police were deployed in key spots in Dhaka to
prevent any revenge JMB attacks, Ahmed said, as part of a move to
step up security across the country.


"We've set up checkposts in front of key mosques, main roads and
important government buildings to prevent attack. We don't want
to leave anything to chance," he said.


"Some JMB militants have been arrested in recent days so we think
remnants of the group are still there," he said.


Security has also been increased in the southwestern port city of
Chittagong, Bangladesh's second biggest urban centre, and the
towns where the six militants were buried.


The six executed militants included JMB leader Shaikh Abdur
Rahman and his deputy, Siddiqul Islam Bangla Bhai.


The attacks by the JMB were part of a campaign apparently aimed
at forcing Bangladesh to replace its secular legal system, which
dates from the British colonial period, with traditional Islamic
or Sharia law.


At least 28 people were killed and hundreds injured in the
attacks, and some 1,000 JMB members were arrested in an ensuing
crackdown.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since January when
political violence between supporters of rival parties led to the
cancellation of parliamentary elections.


"Some militants are still out there and they can launch small-
scale attacks," Bangladesh's national police chief Nur Mohammad
said on Friday. "But we don't think the group is now capable of
launching any big-scale attack."


On Friday, police in the northwestern town of Bagmara said they
arrested two JMB militants as they were plotting an attack.


A total of 30 people were sentenced to death over the JMB bombing
campaign, while 10 have received life terms of 40 years. Twenty
others are serving 20-year sentences.

