

Almost half of beehives in Canada could be lost this year to
climate change and disease, estimated beekeepers Friday, already
stung by cheap honey imports and now facing ruin.


The late onset of winter followed by a cold snap in January
caused havoc with hives and led to "significant bee losses," said
Brent Halsall, president of the Ontario Beekeepers' Association.


The tally is ongoing, but several "alarming cases" including the
destruction of 90 percent of hives on some farms in eastern
Ontario province, point to likely widespread devastation, he
said.


Warm weather prompted bees to produce extra broods, Halsall
explained. "When it got really cold very quickly in January, bees
died as they tended to larvae and pupae, distracted and unable to
respond to the sudden temperature change."


In some cases, the bees died just inches from the honey they
needed to survive, he added.


Combined with pressure from cheap imported honey from China,
South America and Australia, thousands of Canadian beekeepers are
now on the verge of pulling out of an industry that thrived only
a decade ago, Halsall told AFP.


And a collapse of the Canadian industry would not only affect
honey lovers, but could also spell trouble for thousands of
Canadian farmers who rely on bees to pollinate their crops, he
said.


"Eventually, I anticipate a shortage of pollinators in Canada,"
he said, noting that "a quarter of our food depends on bee
pollination."


There are about 600,000 hives in this country. Canada used to be
the fifth- largest honey producer in the world, but has now
dropped out of the top 10 without reducing local production, due
to increased global competition.


Production of honey often costs between 1.10 Canadian dollars
(0.95 US) and 1.25 dollars (1.08 US) per pound, while some
imported honey sells for as little as 50 cents (0.43 US) a pound.


Some eastern Canada beekeepers have been able somewhat to compete
with a glut of imports by packaging and selling their Canadian-
branded honey directly to consumers and to retailers, Halsall
said.


But honey producers in western Canada must sell in bulk to
wholesalers, sometimes at a loss, because the area population is
too small and spread thinly across vast plains.


Meanwhile, in parts of neighboring United States a mysterious
disorder is also killing bees, with potential for billions of
dollars in crop losses that could raise fruit and vegetable
prices in the next two years.


The so-called "colony collapse disorder" has been reported in 24
US states, with bee losses of up to 90 per cent in some hives,
according to a Pennsylvania State University study.


With fewer bees, "you'll see lower pollination, lower yields,
lower crop production," said Paul Wenger, vice president of the
California Farm Bureau Federation, after testifying Thursday
before a House agriculture subcommittee in Washington, cited in
the Ottawa Citizen.


No cases have been reported here, but Halsall said Canadian
beekeepers are concerned the disorder could eventually cross the
border into Canada.


"I'd like to say it's 'colony collapse disorder' that killed our
bees but that hasn't been clearly defined. All that I really care
about is that we're losing hives and we have to find a solution
to stop it," Halsall said.

