

A string of bomb attacks killed 14 people in Iraq on Saturday as
Washington's new ambassador vowed that the United States would do
everything to curb the unrelenting bloodshed.


Ryan Crocker, a fluent Arabic speaker with extensive experience
in the Middle East, this week became the third US ambassador to
Iraq in as many years and presented his credentials to President
Jalal Talabani on Saturday.


Capping a week in which hundreds of Iraqis were slaughtered in
attacks, the bloodshed continued with another 14 people killed in
three car bombs and a roadside bombing targeting Shiite areas,
security officials said.


The deadliest car bombing killed five and wounded 15 wounded when
it exploded outside the Al-Sadr hospital in Baghdad's Shiite
enclave of Sadr City, named after the ayatollah father of radical
anti-US cleric Moqtada Sadr.


The district -- a stronghold of Moqtada Sadr's feared Mahdi Army
militia -- is a favourite target for Sunni extremists, who use
their trademark tactic of car bombings to maximum effect in their
sectarian conflict with Shiites.


A second car bomb killed four people, including two policemen,
and wounded another 20, including many police, near a service
station in the central Shiite city of Hilla, a police source
said.


The officers were guarding the fuel station when the bomb
exploded, ripping through human flesh and destroying 10 cars
waiting for petrol.


In the mixed town of Tuz Khurmatu, near Iraq's contentious
northern oil hub of Kirkuk, another two civilians were killed and
11 wounded when a car bomb exploded in a central square, local
police chief Abbas Mohammed Amin said.


Insurgents have stepped up attacks in and around Kirkuk, the
ethnically mixed city claimed by both the Arabs and Kurds whose
fate is scheduled, under the Iraqi constitution, to be settled by
referendum this year.


In the largely Shiite town of Suweira, south of Baghdad, three
civilians were killed and seven wounded in a roadside bomb
explosion as shoppers were busy making weekend purchases, police
said.


As the daily violence tore through the country, Crocker
reiterated US President George W. Bush's support to Iraq despite
mounting pressure back home for American troops to withdraw from
the country.


"I think what is important to listen to is the position of the
administration led by President Bush," Crocker told a group of
Iraqi reporters at his first news conference since taking over
from Zalmay Khalilzad.


"He (Bush) has been very clear and very determined that we are
going to do everything in full support of the Iraqi government
and people."


Bush is under increased pressure from the Democrat-controlled
Congress to bring home the more than 142,000 war-weary US troops
after his Republican party lost November congressional elections.


Congress has this week tied future war funding to a specific
timeline for forces to withdraw from the country, a decision Bush
has condemned and threatened to veto.


The bulk of US troops are currently deployed in Baghdad, where
sectarian violence has seen the city increasingly separate into
homogenous Shiite and Sunni areas, to curb daily bloodshed that
is showing no signs of let up.


But Crocker, one of Washington's most experienced career
diplomats who has worked in Iraq in the past, talked about
"encouraging signals".


"I have just been in Iraq a few days but what I am hearing is
that while there are enormous difficulties that you and we face
in confronting those who are bringing violence to the streets of
Baghdad, there's also been some encouraging signals of progress,"
he said.


On Monday, the outgoing Khalilzad said violence in Baghdad had
fallen by 25 percent since US and Iraqi troops launched their
latest security crackdown on February 14.


But contrary to their claims, Iraq saw one of its worst bouts of
bloodshed this week with more than 400 people killed in spate of
bomb and shooting attacks, according to security and hospital
officials.

