

FINA Saturday confirmed it has lodged an appeal with the Court of
Arbitration for Sport on a doping test conducted on Ian Thorpe
last year which revealed "abnormal levels" of two banned
substances.


French sports newspaper L'Equipe reported on its website Friday
that Thorpe, who retired from swimming last November, provided a
sample that showed abnormally high readings for testosterone and
luteinizing hormone.


According to the report, the Australian Sport Anti-Doping
Authority (ASADA) was aware of the results but chose not to
proceed because of a lack of evidence.


FINA, world swimming's governing body, issued a statement during
the world swimming championships saying it had lodged an appeal
with CAS seeking clarification of the issues surrounding the
case.


"The FINA Doping Control Review Board (DCRB), consisting of
experts on doping issues and directors of several WADA approved
laboratories, considered the findings of this sample as an
adverse analytical result," FINA said.


"Based on their professional expertise and recommendation, and
according to FINA rules, an appeal has been lodged to CAS with
the aim of clarifying the issues surrounding this case.


"On the tests conducted by a National Anti-Doping Agency or
National Federation, the procedure is that FINA receives the
result of the laboratory analysis, which states only the number
of the respective sample and not the name of the athlete.


"As the matter now rests with CAS. FINA cannot make any further
comment on this issue."


Swimming Australia is expected to speak on the issue later
Saturday following a press conference convened by FINA.


FINA president Mustapha Larfaoui had previously scheduled a news
conference to discuss the world championships and it was not
clear whether he would comment about Thorpe.


Thorpe dominated world swimming for eight years, smashing records
and accumulating an astonishing tally of Olympic and world titles
before he announced his surprise retirement on November 21 last
year.


"Thorpedo" became one of world sport's most identifiable stars,
making him far more than just a phenomenally-talented Australian
swimmer.


He is Australia's most decorated Olympian with five gold medals
at the 2000 Sydney and 2004 Athens Games.


Thorpe is also the only person to win six gold medals in one
world championships at the 2001 event in Fukuoka, Japan, among
his overall 11 world championship golds -- the most won by any
swimmer.


He picked up 10 Commonwealth Games gold medals, six of them in
Manchester in 2002.


Since 1998 he dominated the 400m freestyle, winning the event at
every Olympic, World, Commonwealth and Pan Pacific championships
until taking a post-2004 break. He has also broken 13 individual
long-course world records.


Before the Sydney Olympics German captain Chris-Carol Bremer made
the startling allegation that Thorpe's "hands and feet are
unusually big" due to the use of human growth hormone.


The claim was ridiculed as Thorpe was among the most drug-tested
competitors in world swimming.

