

Swimming Australia is convening a meeting Saturday to discuss a
French newspaper report that swimming great Ian Thorpe  revealed
"abnormal levels" of two banned substances in a doping test last
year.


L'Equipe reported on its website that Thorpe, who retired from
swimming last November, provided a sample that showed abnormally
high readings for testosterone and luteinizing hormone.


According to the report, the Australian Sport Anti-Doping
Authority (ASADA) was aware of the results but chose not to
proceed because of a lack of evidence.


FINA has reportedly appealed to the Court of Arbitration for
Sport for the case to be re-opened.


Swimming Australia spokesman Ian Hanson said Australian swimming
officials would meet later Saturday to discuss the report.


"We are looking to get together to discuss these claims, to
discuss all the facts," Hanson told reporters.


"We were only informed a short time ago."


FINA officials here for the world championships said they would
not immediately comment.


FINA president Mustapha Larfaoui had previously scheduled a news
conference to discuss the world championships for later Saturday
but it was not clear whether he would comment about Thorpe.


Thorpe dominated world swimming for eight years, smashing records
and accumulating an astonishing tally of Olympic and world titles
before he announced his surprise retirement on November 21 last
year.


"Thorpedo" became one of world sport's most identifiable stars,
making him far more than just a phenomenally-talented Australian
swimmer.


He is Australia's most decorated Olympian with five gold medals
at the 2000 Sydney and 2004 Athens Games.


Thorpe is also the only person to win six gold medals in one
world championships at the 2001 event in Fukuoka, Japan, among
his overall 11 world championship golds -- the most won by any
swimmer.


He picked up 10 Commonwealth Games gold medals, six of them in
Manchester in 2002.


Since 1998 he dominated the 400m freestyle, winning the event at
every Olympic, World, Commonwealth and Pan Pacific championships
until taking a post-2004 break. He has also broken 13 individual
long-course world records.


Before the Sydney Olympics German captain Chris-Carol Bremer made
the startling allegation that Thorpe's "hands and feet are
unusually big" due to the use of human growth hormone.


The claim was ridiculed as Thorpe was among the most drug-tested
competitors in world swimming.

