

Demonstrations by opposing political forces were expected in
Ukraine's capital on Saturday despite a court ruling banning
protests on Kiev's main square.


Supporters of the two main pro-Western parties were expected to
meet in several alternative venues to demand that pro-Western
President Viktor Yushchenko follow through on a threat to
dissolve parliament and hold early elections.


On Saturday Yushchenko repeated his earlier warning to pro-
Russian forces that he would dissolve parliament if they failed
to respect earlier agreements and abide by the constitution.


If the pro-Russian parliamentary majority "does not return to
working in accordance with the constitution I will sign a decree
dissolving parliament," Yushchenko told members of his party on
Saturday.


While large demonstrations in favour of dissolving parliament
were expected, the coalition of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych was also bringing supporters from outlying provinces
to oppose such a move, Ukrainian media said.


Amid fears of disturbances a district court satisfied a request
by the mayor of Kiev for a one-day ban on rallies in the city's
central Independence Square, Interfax news agency reported.


Several thousand police were on standby in case of trouble.


Yushchenko has accused the pro-Russian coalition that dominates
parliament of trying to "usurp power" by getting pro-Western
lawmakers to switch sides.


In his comments on Saturday he demanded a ban deputies crossing
to the opposing side in parliament and that the government
support his pro-Western policies.


Yushchenko and Yanukovych have been at loggerheads since the
prime minister won parliamentary elections in March last year.


Yushchenko originally defeated Yanukovych when mass protests
known as the "orange revolution" forced a re-run of a flawed 2004
presidential election at which Yanukovych was originally declared
the winner.


The Ukrainian leader favours full integration of the ex-Soviet
republic with the West, including the NATO military alliance,
while Yanukovych, backed by Russian speakers from the east and
south, is opposed to NATO membership and favours links to Moscow.

