

Charismatic Iraqi singer Shada Hassoon shot to stardom in her
war-torn homeland on Saturday as a symbol of unity after winning
the Arab version of "American Idol" in a glitzy Beirut final.


Born to an Iraqi father and Moroccan mother, Shada has spent most
of her life abroad living a charmed existence far removed from
her compatriots who have endured three wars, sanctions, an
American invasion and insurgency.


Despite US promises that ousting dictatorship would bring peace
and democracy, Iraq is teetering on a civil war between Shiite
and Sunnis, engulfed in mass unemployment, food shortages and
plummeting living conditions.


But for one night, the dream of Shada kept fear and disunity at
bay, as millions of Iraqis from across the sectarian and ethnic
divide crowded round television sets to watch her croon into a
microphone and vote for victory.


The telecast smashed an Iraqi telecommunications record as seven
million phone customers sent SMS messages for her to win,
compared to an average of no more than 150,000 texts a day, said
an official at company Iraqna.


"She excelled where politics failed and is admired by all. She
won seven million Iraqi votes by telephone voting. None of the
Iraqi politicians scooped that number of votes at the ballot
box," said Baghdad teacher Alaa Saber.


"Seven million were unanimous about her winning. That number has
never been unanimous about anything else," he added, out enjoying
a warm Spring morning.


People in autonomous northern Kurdistan, the only area safe
enough for people to watch the show live on a giant outside
screen, jumped up and down in joy, screaming and waving their
hands in the air after victory was announced.


Kurds celebrated into the small hours, holding up magazine and
newspaper pictures of the 26-year-old brunette beauty, honking
car horns and making the "V" for victory sign as they drove home
after partying.


Shada, who stopped hearts when she sang a cover version of an old
Fairuz song eulogising the delights of pre-war Baghdad earlier in
the Star Academy 4 competition, wrapped herself in the Iraqi flag
and thanked her fans.


"I really want to thank them so much. Iraq. All Iraqi people for
their voting to me, for their love to me, because I can feel it,"
she told CNN in raptures from the television studio where the
contest was held.


It was a dream come true for a girl who lists jet skiing among
her hobbies and lusts after international sex symbol Antonio
Banderas.


"I can feel them, like, really happy and smiling, especially in
that situation they're living. That's why it's my dream to make
them happy," she said.


Private Iraqi television station, Al-Sharkiya, which is run by an
exiled businessmen out of Dubai, marketed her as the Daughter of
Mesopotamia, running an all-night phone-in special interspersed
with coverage of the telecast.


"I am happy because Iraqis are living in fear. This is an
opportunity for them to be happy and this unites Iraqis," said
Adel Hussein, head of security at a luxury Baghdad hotel.


Even in the deeply religious Shiite holy city of Najaf where
every Iraqi woman on the street is draped head-to-toe in black
abayas, a world away from the elegant cut of Shada's strappy blue
evening dress, people were delighted.


"We welcome this woman because she has held the name of Iraq
aloft. We needed a voice to unify us," said Islamist politician
Sabah Ahmed.


"Being an Islamist, I have some reservations about singing. But
seven million votes for this woman from walks of society! With
this percentage she outclassed politicians in Iraq. Therefore the
victory unites Iraqis," he added.


"This is a happy Iraqi occasion. We have missed happiness for
long," said Ahmed Abdul-Abbas Al-Fatlawi, also in Najaf.


As much as Shada may have touched people's hearts, however, there
were none of the outbursts of celebratory gunfire in downtown
Baghdad that have accompanied Iraqi football prowess in the Asian
and Olympic Games.

