

New Zealand coach John Bracewell believes his attack are starting
to reap the rewards of their work with bowling guru Dayle Hadlee
as they bid to reduce their extras count at the World Cup.


During the course of their seven-wicket win against the West
Indies on Thursday, the Black Caps sent down just three wides and
not one no-ball.


This was a marked improvement on the 24 no-balls delivered in
their three previous games.


With the set-up of one-day cricket favouring batsmen thanks to
over limits on bowlers, fielding restrictions and frequently
shortened boundaries, former New Zealand off-spinner Bracewell
knows his attack can't afford to donate runs.


Dayle Hadlee, the brother of New Zealand great Sir Richard and a
former Test cricketer himself, has been working with the Black
Caps attack primarily to cut down on their illegal deliveries.


"I was really pleased with the way we held our discipline - it
was a team effort that went through to our bowlers in particular,
try to string those dot balls together and put them under some
sort of pressure," Bracewell told reporters here Friday as he
reflected on the victory over the World Cup hosts.


The new-ball duo of Michael Mason and Shane Bond put West Indies
openers Chris Gayle and Shivnarine Chanderpaul under pressure
right from the start.


Brian Lara's side never broke free and were bowled out for 177
before an unbeaten 80 from medium-pace all-rounder Scott Styris
saw New Zealand home.


"Led by Mike and Shane it set a good standard for us. Parts of
the team capitalised on the fact we started so well," Bracewell
explained.


"Our bowling performance had more discipline than most of them.
It's something the guys addressed well in those six days we had
leading into the game."


Only James Franklin, whose three overs cost 29 runs, was
expensive. The left-arm seamer quick can be vulnerable if the
ball is not swinging but Bracewell insisted Franklin, fortunate
not to be hit on the head by a fierce Gayle straight drive, would
bounce back.


"He was attacked, Chris Gayle decided the way to get a target on
that wicket was to bully it," said the coach.


"I don't think James bowled particulary badly. That was their
strategy.


"That's the beauty of this team - we can bounce out of those
situations, shift to a B plan quite seamlessly with Scotty Styris
(who dismissed star batsman Lara) and things like that and adapt
to the wicket.


"James will get the conditions that suit him at some point and
he'll come through and someone else might get tonked.


"A lot of his spells that have been valuable to us have been in
the middle. He's working really hard on his change up, his around
thw wicket stuff and his death (bowling) is getting better.


"I haven't got a concern about any of our bowlers, they're all
competitive and strategically we'll select on that basis."


New Zealand's next match is against Bangladesh in here on Monday.

