

Wall Street enters a new quarter Monday after a roller-coaster
performance in the first three months of 2007, with investors
cautious amid mixed economic signals and an ambigious posture
from the Federal Reserve.


Over the past week, the market lost some ground and closed out a
volatile first quarter of trading little changed.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 blue chips shed 1.01
percent in the week to close Friday at 12,354.35.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 1.06
percent to 1,420.86 and the tech-dominated Nasdaq composite
dropped 1.4 percent to 2,421.64.


For the first quarter, the Dow is off 0.87 percent while the
S&P has gained a scant 0.18 percent and the Nasdaq is up 0.26
percent.


Still, the market had a rocky opening to 2007 with strong gains
in January erased by a big selloff the following month, and a
modest recovery in March.


Dick Green at Briefing.com urged investors to avoid getting
caught up in the swings of the market.


"We are moderately bullish and cautious and have remained so
through the volatility of recent months," he said.


"The fundamentals right now are mixed to moderately bullish:
nothing exciting, but nothing scary either. The interest rate
outlook is stable and the economic outlook calls for modest
growth. Earnings growth is slowing, but still positive."


Over the past week, the market showed a negative reaction to
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, who appeared to dash hopes
for an early cut in interest rates despite the market's
interpretation of a shift in bias in the March 21 policy
statement.


Bernanke reiterated that he sees a "moderate" growth track for
2007 and that inflation is his predominant concern. But he also
said the outlook is subject to a number of "uncertainties" and is
not sure how the slump in housing will play out.


"Chairman Bernanke signaled that his outlook remains steady, but
the soggy data flow has increased our concern over the near-term
growth picture," said John Shin, analyst at Lehman Brothers.


Fred Dickson, market strategist at DA Davidson, said the economy
is strong enough to keep the stock market on track at least for
modest gains.


"We expect our economy to ride on the coattails of a robust
global economic expansion that should offset the fallout from the
big recession in the housing market," Dickson said.


"We continue to get evidence of steady growth in consumer income
and consumer spending although business investment spending has
slowed significantly over the last two quarters. Continuing
merger and acquisition activity should provide a halo effect over
the US stock market as corporate acquirers continue to deploy
their monstrous war chest of funds estimated to be in excess of
one trillion dollars."


Art Hogan, analyst at Jefferies and Co. said the market has been
able to handle negative news out of Iran and a spike in oil
prices.


Over the coming week, he said, "we'll keep an eye on the energy
prices. It could be seen as positive for the market if they are
going down."


Additionally, he said a key report will come in the monthly
nonfarm payrolls report on Friday, seen as one of the best
indicators of economic momentum.


"I think the market wil go higher if we focus on the
fundamentals, which are good," he added.


Bond prices fell as inflation concerns came back to forefront.


The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.648 percent from
4.613 percent a week earlier and the 30-year bond yield climbed
to 4.848 percent against 4.799 percent. Bond yields and prices
move in opposite directions.

