

The 180 people of Uttenhoffen in eastern France voted massively
for Jean-Marie Le Pen in the 2002 presidential election, but now
say they will think twice before voting for the far-right leader
again.


There are however all the ingredients for a new shock when the
picturesque hamlet joins the rest of the country in voting on
April 22.


Last time, 44 percent of voters backed the 78-year-old National
Front (FN) leader, three times the national average.


Many say they wanted to protest over petty crime and economic
hardship, and that they were shocked when he made it into the
second round run-off against Jacques Chirac.


Only one young man, Frederic, an 18-year-old factory apprentice,
says openly he will vote for Le Pen this time.


"I'm against vandalism and disorder. I want more discipline in
France: the country's going off the rails," he says, arguing that
Le Pen is "the one promising most for workers."


Some, like Madeleine Schweitzer, 65, reject Le Pen entirely.
"Here in Alsace, we already experienced the rule of the far-right
during the war," she said, in reference to World War II, when the
region was annexed by the Nazis.


Others rule him out on practical grounds.


"Le Pen has some good ideas, but I don't trust him to put them in
practice -- he has no experience of power," said one 40-year-old
technician who would not give his name.


"Nothing has changed in the last five years -- but we won't vote
Le Pen. He hasn't aged well," agreed another entrepreneur from
the village, who backed the FN chief in 2002.


In Uttenhoffen, voting intentions are split between right-wing
candidate Nicolas Sarkozy and the centrist Francois Bayrou. None
say they plan to vote for the Socialist Segolene Royal, seen as
soft on crime and immigration, and keen to tax the working man.


Others -- fired up against the mainstream candidates -- plan
another kind of ballot protest.


"I am going to vote blank -- Segolene and Sarkozy just talk a
load of bla-bla for idiots," says Thierry Roessler, 45, a butcher
who complains he is growing poorer by the year, however hard he
works.


But while few in Uttenhoffen admit to voting for the far-right,
all can point out someone who does -- in one case an entire
family of 16 -- and there is widesread approval of Le Pen's
promise to halt immigration, cut welfare for foreigners and crack
down on petty crime.


"People think immigrants get given priority for jobs and housing,
that they get too much help," said the village technician.


Here as elsewhere, the stigma attached to the FN vote makes it
difficult to accurately predict Le Pen's election scores. No one
foresaw his shock breakthrough in the 2002 national election.


Le Pen currently polls fourth in the race, on around 12 percent
of voting intentions, behind Sarkozy, Royal and Bayrou. He says
he is confident of making it to round two again.


For observers the question is why, in a part of Alsace with
unemployment and immigration both below the national average,
does Le Pen clock up such high scores?


In the neighbouring village of Mertzwiller, 40 percent voted Le
Pen in 2002, while one in four backed him in the nearby town of
Hagenau -- compared to a national average of 16.8 percent.


One answer is that "Alsaciens" pride themselves on being hard-
working and resent what they see as a culture of welfare-
dependency. Many also find it hard to identify with the multi-
ethnic face of modern France, and are tempted by Le Pen's promise
to turn back the clock.


Uttenhoffen's deputy mayor Rene Urban says local problems also
play a role: he shares village resentment against two gypsy camps
in Mertzwiller, set up decades ago but still a source of tension.


"The young ones, they ziz-zag like crazy in their cars, and they
have no respect for the law," Urban says, adding that the local
supermarket had been forced to put security guards at the door.


Low wages and meagre pensions -- especially for retired farmers
-- have also created frustration.


"Before, there used to be the poor, those in the middle and the
rich. Now there are only the rich and the poor," rails Roessler,
the butcher.


He used to work across the border in Germany but says he and his
German colleagues are being squeezed out by Polish and Russian
butchers who will work for half their salary. Now he drives 400
kilometres (250 miles) to Switzerland and back each week to earn
a living and pay off his debts.


"In despair" at his situation, he says he is thinking of selling
his home and emigrating to Canada.


"We're fed up: people are sick of having no money, sick of
promises that are never kept -- on the left or the right," agreed
Joseph Roth, a 50-year-old hospital guard, although he insisted
Le Pen was "no good".

