

At 85, Abdelrahman al-Mabhuh still believes he will one day leave
his miserable refugee camp in the Gaza Strip and return to lands
that were once his in neighbouring Israel.


"The Israelis will be defeated and chased off our country. I saw
it in a dream, it will happen in 11 years," he is sure.


The Jabaliya refugee camp is today the biggest Palestinian
refugee camp in the Middle East, where over 106,000 people live
in density and squalor.


Mabhuh is one of about 760,000 Palestinians who fled or were
driven away from their homes in the months before and following
the creation of the Jewish state in May 1948.


Almost 4.5 million Palestinian refugees and their descendants
live today in dozens of refugee camps across the Middle East in
precarious conditions, and their plight is seen as the biggest
stumbling block to peace.


Israel vehemently rejects any suggestions of a return for the
refugees, arguing the influx would effectively erase the Jewish
character of the state, while Palestinians view the right of
return as sacred in solving the decades-old conflict.


When Arab states unanimously adopted this week a plan offering
full normalisation of ties with Israel in exchange for the return
of all occupied Arab lands, creation of a Palestinian state and
the return of refugees, the Jewish state balked at the latter
element of the Arab peace plan.


But the recent flurry of peace diplomacy hardly left an
impression on Mabhuh, who grew up in the today-vanished village
of Batani just a few kilometres (miles) away from the Gaza Strip.


The right of return is not subject to any negotiations, he says.


"We will never give up. They chased us away from our paradise and
we have since fought for our return," he says as he adjusts the
keffieh chequered scarf on his head.


Like many Palestinian refugee families, Mabhuh has kept the key
to his Batani home, a symbol of his desire to return and of the
Palestinian national cause.


The grandparents of 40-year-old Suheila al-Taluli lived before
the 1948 war in the village of Dimra, not far from Batani, and
again of which no trace has remained.


"My grandmother told me before she died many stories about her
village. She would often break down in tears from the memories
and pain," she says.


"She raised her children on love of the cause. One of them died
as a martyr and others are today in Israeli prisons," she says.


Sitting in front of her ramshackle home, Taluli's neighbour,
Latifa al-Hilu, is too old to remember her age, but she keeps a
vivid image of her home in the village of Beit Jirja where today
stands an Israeli community.


"It was a beautiful two-storey house. My father fell sick when he
heard that it was destroyed after we left," she says.


"We lived there comfortably with the income from our fields.
Today we live on humanitarian aid, but we will return one day,"
she promises.


"Nothing in this world will make me give up my right of return.
Jabaliya is not my home. Home is the village where my parents and
grandparents were born and sooner or later we will return," says
Suheila, whose family also came from Dimra.


According to the United Nations, Palestinian refugees and their
descendants numbered 4.45 million by the end of 2006, with 1.85
million living in Jordan, 442,363 in Syria and 408,438 in
Lebanon, in a total of 95 camps.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Friday that the return of
any Palestinian refugee was "out of the question".


"I'll never accept a solution that is based on their return to
Israel, any number," the premier said in an interview to the
Jerusalem Post English-language daily.

