

While Britain battles to rally international pressure in its
standoff with Iran over 15 detained sailors, for the moment
Tehran seems to be winning the propaganda war, experts admit.


Although criticized by London as crude and unacceptable
manipulation, the release of letters and video has certainly
dominated media coverage of the standoff over the last few days.


"They have got everyone's attention. They are clearly getting
things out, using the girl because they know in the West that's a
soft spot," said Paul Beaver, a leading defence expert.


"I don't like it but I think they're doing very well."


The "girl" in question is 26-year-old Faye Turney, the sole woman
among the eight sailors and seven marines seized at gunpoint on
March 23 in the northern Gulf.


She has become the human face of the standoff, in particular
since she was shown in television footage Wednesday -- complete
with dark Islamic veil -- admitting that the 15 had "obviously"
strayed into Iranian waters.


Three letters have since been released purporting to have been
written by her, reflecting for many the successive hardening of
the Iranian position.


In the first, released Wednesday, she asked her family not to
worry because she was "strong." In the second she questioned why
British forces remain in Iraq.


In the third, released Friday addressed in odd-sounding English
"To British People" (sic), she lamented that she and her
colleagues had been "sacrificed" to US and British policy -- and
compared their good treatment in Iran to the inmates of Iraq's
notorious Abu Ghraib prison.


Britain insists Turney is being coerced.


"I really don't know why the Iranian regime keep doing this. All
it does is enhance people's sense of disgust," said Prime
Minister Tony Blair on Friday. "Captured personnel being paraded
and manipulated in this way doesn't fool anyone."


Turney's body language in Wednesday's video certainly suggests
she is under pressure: she answers the interviewer blankly and
smokes intensely, in stark contrast to the "chatty" and
"outgoing" woman described by those who know her.


Her hand-written letters have also been analyzed closely.
Graphology expert Jan Harrison said her second letter gave
greater cause for concern than the first. "It shows many signs of
stress," he told the Daily Mirror newspaper.


"A lot of letters in the words are more squashed and not as open
... Because the writing has deteriorated, however slightly, I
would say her emotions are definitely all over the place."


Beaver agreed that the second letter is written in "very strange
English" which may well have been translated from Farsi, while
the third included completely ungrammatical phrases.


The fact that she called for British troops to be withdrawn from
Iraq suggested it was written under duress, he added.


"She knows that as a serving member of the armed forces she has
no public opinion on that. That's the standard way everyone looks
at it in the military," he said, forecasting that further footage
or letters can be expected.


Former Royal Air Force navigator John Nichol, who was held
hostage by Iraq during the 1991 Gulf War, said Turney was
"clearly coerced" into writing the letter.


"No serviceman or woman is going to pick up a pen when captive
and write to their dearly beloved MP. It's a nonsense," he
scoffed, referring to the second letter to Turney's local
lawmaker.


"She was under duress when she wrote those things. They need to
keep the situation as calm as possible because there's no
military solution to this."


On Friday the Arabic-language Al-Alam broadcast more footage
showing another of the detainees, Nathan Thomas Sommers, in which
he twice apologizes for entering Iranian waters.


Beaver said that, while the statements are clearly coerced, the
ultimate impact is to put pressure on London. "What they are
doing is managing the propaganda war really well," he said.


"And they are winning quite nicely, I would say, at the moment,"
he said.

