

The father of "Australian Taliban" David Hicks said Saturday his
son had not received a fair trial after a US military tribunal
handed him a nine-month sentence for training with Al-Qaeda.


Terry Hicks also insisted his son had been abused while in US
military custody -- which included five years at the Guantanamo
Bay US naval base on Cuba -- even though David Hicks retracted
the claim as part of a plea bargain.


Hicks said his son, a 31-year-old Muslim convert, had been
"through hell" and should never have been made to endure the
conditions at the Guantanamo Bay detention centre.


"The Americans made David sign a paper to say he was never
abused... when we knew he has been -- David told us," Hicks
senior told the Australian Associated Press.


David Hicks pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training camps
and volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime during
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


After a panel of US military officers recommended a maximum
sentence of seven years, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann revealed that a
prior secret plea bargain agreement meant that he could not serve
more than nine months.


Terry Hicks said his son had to accept the plea deal because he
would have been "crucified and nailed to the wall" by the US
military commission set up to try him had he attempted to fight
the charges against him.


"Military commissions aren't the way to go -- they're set up to
find people guilty and I think it's been proven particularly when
the sitting judge can sack two of David's lawyers," he said.


"What I saw of that commission was that nothing had changed from
the first time around -- it's still the same," he added,
referring to the original version of the military commission,
which was ruled illegal by US courts.


Under the deal, Hicks will be transferred to Australia within two
months and then serve out the sentence in his home country. He is
also prohibited from speaking to the media for a year as part of
his sentence.


Terry Hicks linked that condition to a general election in
Australia at the end of the year, in which Prime Minister John
Howard will seek another term for his conservative government --
which has faced criticism over the Hicks case for failing to look
after one of its citizens.


"It's very strange that will fall during the election," he said.


"John Howard will probably be putting his head up saying 'see,
he's a terrorist.'"


Terry Hicks said the nine-month sentence was a bittersweet
outcome for his son.


"It's a lot better than 12 years or seven or two or whatever they
were touting throughout the night," he said.


"(But) it's a real shame David had to go through this way to get
released when he should have had the the Australian government
standing up for Australia's citizens' rights."


He said Hicks would be looking forward to returning to Australia.


"All David would be thinking about at the moment is coming home,"
he said.


Hicks was the first defendant convicted by the controversial
Guantanamo military tribunals and the first conviction in a US
war crimes trial since World War II.

