

The crisis over Iran's seizure of 15 British naval personnel
escalated Saturday after Iran aired television footage of another
British sailor "confessing" to trespassing in its waters.


The government of British Prime Minister Tony Blair received
strong support from both the United States and the European Union
as the crisis entered its second week and showed no sign of
ending.


At the White House, spokeswoman Dana Perino said Friday that
Washington had "very serious concerns" over Iran's broadcasting
footage of the personnel and their alleged confessions.


Perino reiterated the US call for Iran to "immediately and
unconditionally" release the 15, but said there was no indication
the standoff would be resolved militarily, adding everyone
"believes that it can be solved diplomatically."


Washington has been conducting naval exercises in the Gulf
involving aircraft carriers and is spearheading a drive to stop
Iran from pursuing its nuclear programme.


Iran insists the programme is peaceful despite US fears it hides
efforts to build nuclear weapons.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to mounting world pressure to
release the naval personnel who are now being held in a secret
location.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate but Iran says they were in its
territorial waters.


The United States also rejected any suggestion that the 15
personnel detained by Iran for the past week could be swapped for
five Iranian officials held by US forces in Iraq since January.


The standoff has become "a dangerous test of wills in the Gulf,"
according to an editorial in the Financial Times.


"Escalation, by either side, with the narrow waters of the Gulf
already boiling with warships, carries huge risks," it warned.
"Iran still needs to be confronted with a reasonable menu of
rewards and penalties for its behaviour by a united international
community."


EU foreign ministers at a meeting in Germany deplored the seizure
of the Britons as a breach of international law and threatened to
take measures if they were not released soon.


Although Iran warned European nations not to inferfere, the EU
foreign ministers expressed their "unconditional support" for
London.


The EU move came after Britain, which on Thursday secured a less
strident UN Security Council condemnation of the Iranian action,
vowed it would work to further isolate Tehran over the crisis.


Blair voiced his "disgust" at the latest broadcast of the captive
Britons and Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she saw no
sign that Iran was seeking to solve the crisis.


"We've got to pursue this with the necessary firmness and
determination but also patience," Blair said.


"I would like to apologise for entering your waters without any
permission," a Royal Navy serviceman, identified as Nathan Thomas
Summers, said in an interview broadcast on Iran's Arabic-language
Al-Alam television.


The interview was interspersed with images of the sailor sitting
with two of his comrades, including the only woman among the
captives, Faye Turney, smiling, and with bowls of fruit and
flowers in front of them.


Echoing fears in Britain that the personnel are being coerced
into "confessing," Roy Summers told The Sun newspaper that his
son was reading from an Iranian script, though he expressed
relief to see him "alive and well."


Britain's Foreign Office denounced the parading of its personnel
on Iranian television as "outrageous."


Firing off new volleys in the propaganda war, Iran also released
a third letter attributed to Turney, saying she had been
"sacrificed" to the policies of Britain and the United States.


Turney's latest letter, released by Iranian authorities in
London, calls for British troops to withdraw from Iraq.


In the first footage of the group aired on Wednesday, Turney was
also shown saying they had trespassed into Iranian waters, but
again the circumstances of the communication were not disclosed.


Britain has already frozen most ties with Iran, a move Tehran
blamed for its decision not to free Turney as promised earlier
this week.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was quoted as telling
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan that Britain must
apologise.


However, Britain said it was giving "serious consideration" to a
diplomatic note from Iran which protests at the sailors' "illegal
act" but does not call for an apology.


Both Britain and Iran have produced maps and global positioning
system (GPS) coordinates to back their cases over where the
sailors were when they were seized at gunpoint on March 23.


The crisis has sent oil prices surging towards seven month highs,
topping 69 dollars in London trade on Friday.

