

Heavy weapons fire broke out before dawn Saturday in the Somali
capital Mogadishu, as the Ethiopian army pressed its land and air
offensive against insurgents for a third consecutive day.


After a brief lull since nightfall, detonations could be heard
again at 2:30 am (2330 GMT Friday), leaving residents trapped
inside their homes amid the worst fighting the city has seen in
15 years.


"We don't know where to go. We are trapped in our houses and dead
bodies are lying in the street," a resident in the southern Ali
Kamin area, Ibrahim Duale told AFP.


"There is no chance of taking the wounded and dead people because
of the heavy artillery and anti-aircraft weapons. It is still
continuing and we cannot tell exactly the number of dead. I have
seen at least seven bodies and they all lived in the
neighbourhood," he said.


Buildings have sustained heavy damage in the onslaught. "The
whole area is demolished, totally demolished," another despairing
resident, Ali Hasan, said.


"You can see smoke coming out of everywhere and people are
confused. They don't have anywhere to run."


Fighting intensified Friday as rebels shot down an Ethiopian
helicopter gunship, killing the crew.


The Ethiopian government late Friday said its army had killed
more than 200 insurgents in Mogadishu since launching an
offensive in the city as part of its support for the struggling
Somali government.


The death toll was the highest since the start of the year, when
Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional government drive
out the leaders of the Islamist movement controlling Mogadishu.


The International Committee of the Red Cross has described the
fighting as the worst in more than 15 years.


Expressing concern over the high number of civilian casualties,
the Geneva-based ICRC said in a statement: "The population of
Mogadishu is caught up in the worst fighting in more than 15
years."


According to an AFP count early Saturday based on witnesses and
hospital sources, at least 62 people have died since Thursday.


"We have never seen such fighting, it's the worst ever seen in
Mogadishu," another resident, Habibo Hasan, said by telephone.


Residents reported that Ethiopian troops had reinforced their
positions over night near the stadium where insurgents were
trying to break through.


"I saw tanks take position near the old post office and they were
firing," Hasan said. "I am the only one in the family to have
stayed at home. I wanted to leave but I think it's too late.


"I heard that neighbours had been killed but I cannot go out to
look, I'm just using the phone."


The downing of the helicopter and the dragging of dead soldiers
through the streets this past week carried dark echoes of a
failed UN-backed US peace operation in Somalia in the early
1990s.


The fighting of recent days was triggered by an Ethiopian-
spearheaded offensive against Islamist insurgents who have been
carrying out guerrilla-style attacks.


The Ethiopian offensive Thursday shattered a shaky six-day
ceasefire with the powerful Hawiye clan, which has largely
controlled the Somali capital since the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre.


The bloody power struggle that followed exploded into inter-clan
warfare that has defied more than 14 attempts to restore a
functional government in Somalia.

