

Prime Minister John Howard on Saturday lashed out at critics he
said had tried to turn David Hicks into a "hero" after a US
military tribunal jailed the Australian on terrorism charges.


Howard's conservative government has been accused of abandoning
Hicks as he languished in Guantanamo Bay for five years without
being charged, but Howard said the Adelaide-born Muslim convert
had admitted to helping Al-Qaeda.


"Whatever may be the rhetorical responses of some and
particularly the government's critics, the facts speak for
themselves," Howard told reporters in Sydney after Hicks was
sentenced to nine months by the US military commission.


"He pleaded guilty to knowingly assisting a terrorist
organisation -- namely, al-Qaeda.


"He's not a hero in my eyes and he ought not to be a hero in the
eyes of any people in the Australian community.


"The bottom line will always be that he pleaded guilty to
knowingly assisting a terrorist organisation. He's acknowledged
the prosecution could have proved that beyond a reasonable
doubt."


Howard dismissed a suggestion from Greens senator Bob Brown that
Canberra had influenced the US military commission to impose a
nine-month sentence to ensure Hicks was sidelined until after an
election late this year.


"We didn't impose the sentence -- the sentence was imposed by the
military commission and the plea bargain was worked out between
the military prosecution and Mr. Hicks' lawyers," Howard said.


"And the suggestion from Senator Brown, that it has something to
do with the Australian elections, is absurd."


After a panel of US military officers recommended a maximum
sentence of seven years, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann revealed that a
prior secret plea bargain agreement meant that he could not serve
more than nine months.


Under the deal, Hicks will be transferred to Australia within two
months and then serve out the sentence in his home country. He is
also prohibited from speaking to the media for a year as part of
his sentence.


Brown has described the nine-month sentence as a political farce,
claiming it was "more about saving Mr Howard's political hide
than about justice for Hicks".


"It is clearly a political fix arranged between Mr Howard and the
Bush administration to shut up Hicks until after the election in
November," Brown said.

