

Australia's gold medal bid at the world track cycling
championships took another dip early Friday as Olympic champion
Ryan Bayley was ousted from the men's sprint competition.


Bayley, who is also the reigning Olympic keirin champion, was
eliminated in repechages for the quarter-finals following defeat
in his last 12 duel with reigning world champion Theo Bos of the
Netherlands.


Aussie compatriot Mark French also failed to make the last eight
for the blue riband event, losing his repechages round in which
Italian Roberto Chiappa also held off Spaniard Jose Antonio
Escuredo.


It leaves Anna Meares, the world record holder and Olympic
champion in the women's 500 metre time trial, with the task of
handing Australia their first gold medal of the championships in
the final of the event later Saturday.


Britain have so far won four gold and seven medals in total,
while their Aussie rivals have won a comparatively meagre total
of two bronze from eight events held so far.


Later Saturday Meares will also battle for the sprint bronze
against Cuban Lisandra Guerra after she was beaten 2-1 in her
three round semi-final by Chinese Shuang Guo.


The remaining finals on the penultimate day of competition are
the men's points race and the women's scratch.


Remarkably, Australia's world champion men's pursuit team
finished sixth and out of the running for the medals during
qualifying on Friday, when Britain beat Ukraine to take the gold.


It was their first time the Australians had failed to medal in
that event sincec 2001.


And head coach Martin Barras admitted that, 17 months ahead of
the Beijing Olympics, his riders' performances could be better.


"It's been a difficult championships so far. The best way to
describe it is we're trying to save the furniture from the house
on fire," he told AFP.


"Some of the performances have been sub-par, and we didn't see
that coming. We have a bunch of young guys here and by and large
they've acquitted themselves well.


"But there's some senior riders who haven't done as well as we
expected."


For the second year in a row, Bayley failed to make the latter
stages of the men's sprint and keirin competitions.


Australia however have a habit of rising to the big occasion. In
the Athens, velodrome they won a record five gold, two silver and
two bronze.


And while Barras believes his team's performances here should not
spell danger for Beijing, he admitted he would rather be
emulating Britain's stunning performances here.


"At the 2004 worlds (in Melbourne) just before the Olympics we
didn't do great. It wasn't an average worlds for us but we had to
build on our performances for the Olympics.


"But ultimately it didn't affect us once we got to Athens."


He added: "But given the choice, I would prefer to have the big
performances and the big momentum that Britain have been having
here."

