

Al-Qaeda volunteer David Hicks will leave Guantanamo soon to
serve a nine-month prison term in his native Australia after
pleading guilty to a terrorism charge and recanting allegations
he was abused by US authorities.


Hicks will head out of the Guantanamo detention camp within two
months and serve out his sentence in his home country as part of
a plea deal revealed late Friday at a US military tribunal.


In return, Hicks renounced his earlier statements that he
suffered abuse at the hands of US authorities before or after his
arrival at the controversial camp at the US naval base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


He also agreed not to speak to the media about his Al-Qaeda
experience for a year and to cooperate with US and Australian
intelligence agencies.


"Today is the first day in over five years of David Hicks's life
that there's actually some certainty," his defense lawyer,
Colonel Michael Mori, said afterward.


"It's certain that David Hicks should be back in Australia no
later than the 29th of May of this year," he told reporters,
adding: "we hope that it happens much quicker than that."


The outcome was a stunning reversal of fortune for the former
horse trainer and kangaroo skinner, who spent more than five
years at the Guantanamo and whose case became a cause celebre in
Australia.


The United States had come under heavy pressure over the case
from Australia's conservative government, which had been slammed
at home for allegedly failing to protect the interests of one of
its citizens.


Hicks's father, Terry Hicks, said Saturday it was a bittersweet
result, and insisted his son had been abused while in US hands
despite his statement Friday.


"The Americans made David sign a paper to say he was never
abused... when we knew he has been -- David told us," Hicks
senior told the Australian Associated Press.


Human rights groups questioned the plea deal's requirement that
Hicks refrain from speaking to the media for a year.


"If the United States had nothing to be ashamed of, it would not
hide behind a gag rule that would be clearly illegal in our own
courts," said Ben Wizner of the American Civil Liberties Union.


Tribunal lawyers said the plea deal, kept secret until Friday,
was worked out between Hicks's defense lawyers and the judicial
chief of the new tribunal system, Susan Crawford, a retired judge
appointed by the US defense secretary.


A panel of military officers recommended a seven-year sentence,
but the secret plea deal barred Hicks from serving more than nine
months.


Human rights monitors called the nine-month prison term a
suspiciously convenient timetable for Australia's government to
ensure Hicks will be behind bars and out of the spotlight before
an election expected later this year.


"It might just be a coincidence but if it is, it's an amazing
one," said Lex Lasry, independent observer for the law counsel of
Australia, who watched the proceedings.


The Hicks case marks the first conviction by the new military
tribunals and the first conviction in a US war crimes trial since
World War II.


The tribunals, or commissions, operate outside of regular US
courts and even Defense Secretary Robert Gates says the tribunal
trials may lack credibility abroad.


The chief prosecutor, Colonel Morris Davis, said the outcome
showed the tribunal system operated in a fair way and was not
skewed in favor of prosecutors.


"I think David Hicks is very fortunate, he's getting a second
chance," said Davis.


Asked if the case would set a precedent for terror suspects, he
said: "I hope not."


Hicks, who remained subdued throughout the hearing, earlier
pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training camps and
volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime during the
US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


During the sentencing hearing rival military lawyers had
portrayed Hicks as either a harmless "wanna be" soldier who never
attacked US targets or as a dangerous "enemy" loyal to Al-Qaeda.

