

Australia's largest city will be plunged into darkness for an
hour Saturday night as Sydney undergoes a self-imposed blackout
to raise awareness of global warming.


In an event that organisers say is a world first, residents and
businesses across the city of four million will flick off the
lights for "Earth Hour" at 7.30 pm (0930 GMT).


Tourists will have to view the famous sails of the Sydney Opera
House by moonlight, while the Harbour Bridge's steel span and the
clown's face of the waterside Luna Park fairground will also be
blacked out.


The neon on a huge blinking Coca-Cola advertising hoarding in
Sydney's Kings Cross nightclub district will flicker off for the
first time since it was installed in 1974.


Restaurants have agreed to serve diners by candlelight and pupils
will attend schools for special Earth Hour parties.


The Newtown Hotel, which bills itself as Australia's oldest gay
pub, has even organised a special drag show for the event, where
the audience will be handed mini-torches to light up performers'
sequins.


Many of Australia's biggest companies have signed up, with local
McDonald's restaurants turning off the "golden arches" for the
occasion.


The World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which has spent 10 months
organising the event with city authorities and a major newspaper
group, said there had been a massive groundswell of support
across the city.


WWF Australia spokesman Andy Ridley said the blackout would show
Sydney in a new perspective.


"Nobody knows what it will look like. No one's seen it," he said.


"If all the lights go down, it will look like 70 or 80 years ago.
But that's a guess, we don't know.


"I really hope it looks amazing so that everyone can just go
'wow, look what we can do!'."


He said the event was aimed at raising awareness about climate
change and showing that an action as simple as turning out a
light could make a difference.


"It's only by joining together that you can make a difference,"
he said.


"The world has moved into a time where we see climate change as a
serious risk but we want people to realise that it's not all doom
and gloom, individuals can take action to help address the
problem.


"One of the things about Earth Hour is really to get the issue
out of the scientific and specialist areas and into the
mainstream."


Ridley said WWF hoped to capitalise on the popularity of the
event in the longer term with a campaign to reduce Sydney's
greenhouse gas emissions by five percent over the next year.


WWF believes a successful switch-off could then be copied by
major cities around the world in a drive to reduce the greenhouse
gas emissions blamed for climate change.


Scientists link dangerous global temperature increases to the
greenhouse effect, in which gases emitted by burning fossil fuels
to produce energy trap heat in the atmosphere.


Organisers say there are a number of simple steps people can take
to reduce electricity use, including unplugging appliances such
as televisions, microwave ovens and stereos that are normally
left on standby.


Other suggestions include switching to fluorescent light bulbs --
a move the Australian government committed to earlier this year
-- and using "green" power sources such as solar.

