

Emerging track giants Britain set out their Olympic stall by
doubling their gold medal haul on the second day of the world
track cycling championships on Friday.


History was made, and a few splinters were picked up along the
way, as Bradley Wiggins added to his individual pursuit gold by
leading the men's team to victory for only the second time in
history.


Scotland's kilometre world champion Chris Hoy, who won silver in
the men's team sprint on Friday, was crowned the king of the
kierin after a tough day of racing on the Siberian pine boards,
pieces of which some of the riders in the men's scratch race took
home with them - unforunately, inside their skin.


A late crash in the 15km race took down seven riders, but by then
Kam-Po Wong, who had escaped from the 22-strong field with eight
laps to go, was already on his way to winning an historic first
track gold for Hong Kong.


Ahead of Beijing's hosting of the Olympics, Wong was delighted
that his government has planned construction of a velodrome, in
2012, on the back of their good results in last year's Asian
Games.


"Hopefully with this gold medal, they'll build it a bit faster
now," he said.


It is also in Beijing that Britain will be marked, especially in
the men's team pursuit which they blitzed with conspicuous ease
ahead of Ukraine, having last won it in 2005.


British quartet Edward Clancy, Geraint Thomas, Paul Manning and
Wiggins had already set a relatively rare sub-four minute time in
qualifying and in the final set a new British record of 3min
57.468sec to edge closer to Australia's world mark of 3:56.610,
set during the Athens Olympics.


Defending champions Australia, who have dominated the team
pursuit in the past decade and are also the reigning Olympic
champions, finished sixth and out of the medals for the first
time since 2001.


Instead of records, Wiggins - who has returned to track after a
four-year absence - seemed more impressed by the talent oozing
out of every discipline in the British set-up.


"We're winning right across the board, and it's great to see.
It's been a long time coming but I've seen it coming the past 10
years," he told AFP.


Britain's growing reputation was also personified by Rebecca
Romero.


A former world rowing champion who has also won Olympic silver,
relative track novice Romero was outclassed by American defending
champion Sarah Hammer in the final of the women's individual
pursuit.


However Romero, who took a well deserved silver, said she will be
one to watch over the coming year.


The 27-year-old had smashed the British national record with a
time of 3:31.89 in qualifying, improving her personal best by
five seconds.


She paid for those efforts in the later final, dropping out of
contention just after the halfway mark of the 3000 metre race.


"I didn't expect to make the world championships never mind the
final of the women's pursuit," said Romero, who has only been
racing on the track for 10 months.


"Nearly a year ago I was wobbling all over the track doing
rubbish times. But hopefully I've rattled her (Hammer) cage. I've
got a few things to work on in the next year, but I'm delighted
with my times."


Britain's night ended on a high when Hoy, ahead of defending his
kilometre title on Sunday, grabbed his first individual gold in
the keirin, beating defending champion Theo Bos and fellow Scot
Ross Edgar.


He admitted their results have taken the team's expectations to
new heights.


"It's incredible. A silver medal (for Britain) hardly gets
noticed now. It's gold or nothing. It's infectious, but it's not
like we're getting lucky. We're getting deserved golds and solid
silvers."

