

Hundreds of people took part in separate demonstrations in Moscow
on Saturday, the latest in a series of protests ahead of
parliamentary and presidential elections.


About 700 Communist supporters waving traditional red Soviet
hammer-and-sickle flags gathered by a statue of the writer Karl
Marx to denounce President Vladimir Putin's government.


"There are about 40 million pensioners in our country. They
receive miserly pensions despite having worked to create a great
power. There's no socio- economic direction," Communist member of
parliament Vladimir Kashin told the mainly elderly audience.


Those in the crowd complained that they were seeing none of the
fruits of Russia's growing oil wealth.


"I've stopped believing this government. There are 50
billionaires in the country and yet we have three million
homeless children," said one pensioner, Alexander, who declined
to give his surname.


Another demonstrator, Alexander Nefedov, 56, complained that the
government was "acting on orders from abroad" and that a
"genocide of the Russian people" was under way.


Meanwhile about 200 people attended a separate march organized by
mainly liberal opposition groups including the centre-right
United Civil Front of Gary Kasparov, a chess champion-turned-
politician.


The demonstration, in Pushkin square, was aimed against
unregulated building on public spaces and was intended to pave
the way for larger anti-Kremlin rallies later this month.


There have been regular anti-government demonstrations in Moscow
and other cities as Russia approaches parliamentary elections in
December and a presidential poll next March at which Putin is to
stand down.


The Communists have proved a resilient force, having organized
large demonstrations in 2005 that forced a climb-down by the
government over plans to reduce social benefits.


Police detained one member of a radical youth group, the National
Bolsheviks, at the smaller demonstration, the RIA-Novosti news
agency reported, citing a police source.

