

Human Rights Watch on Saturday accused the governments of Kenya,
Ethiopia, Somalia and the United States of secretly detaining
hundreds of people fleeing the deadly conflict in Somalia.


"Each of these governments has played a shameful role in
mistreating people fleeing a war zone," said Georgette Gagnon,
HRW's deputy Africa director.


"Kenya has secretly expelled people, the Ethiopians have caused
dozens to disappear,' and US security agents have routinely
interrogated people held incommunicado," he added.


In a statement, the rights panel detailed "arbitrary detention,
expulsion and apparent enforced disappearance of dozens of
individuals who fled the fighting" between Ethiopia-backed Somali
troops and the powerful Islamist movement from December through
January 2007.


HRW said since late December, Kenyan security forces arrested at
least 150 individuals from some 18 different nationalities at the
Liboi and Kiunga border crossing points with Somalia.


"The Kenyan authorities then transferred these individuals to
Nairobi where they were detained incommunicado and without charge
for weeks in violation of Kenyan law," it said.


The rights body said the US and other national intelligence
services interrogated several foreign nationals while they were
being detained in Nairobi, where they were also denied access to
legal counsel and their consular representatives.


"At least 85 people were then secretly deported from Kenya to
Somalia in what appears to be a joint rendition operation of
those individuals of interest to the Somali, Ethiopian, or US
governments," the statement said.


"Many of the people expelled from Kenya were later transferred
from Somalia to Ethiopia, but their exact locations in Ethiopia
are unknown," it added.


"Dozens of people have effectively disappeared into Ethiopian
detention facilities," said Gagnon. "It's imperative that the
Ethiopians acknowledge the people they are holding and permit
independent international access to them."


The statement came on the third day of an Ethiopian army land and
air offensive against insurgents in the Somali capital Mogadishu,
which is experiencing its worst fighting in 15 years.

