

The crisis over Iran's seizure of 15 British naval personnel
deepened Saturday after Iran aired television footage of another
British sailor "confessing" to trespassing in its waters.


The government of British Prime Minister Tony Blair received
strong support from both the United States and the European Union
as the crisis entered its second week and showed no sign of
ending.


But the United States rejected the notion that the group could be
exchanged for five Iranian officials who have been held by their
forces in Iraq since January.


"There have been some anonymous Iranian sources that have sought
to draw the United States into this by suggesting a swap of
personnel," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"We would reject out of hand any suggestion by the Iranian
sources that there's any linkage between these issues or linkage
of this issue with any other issue."


Nevertheless, Washington has "very serious concerns" over Iran's
broadcast of footage of the personnel and their alleged
confessions, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino added.


Perino reiterated the US call for Iran to "immediately and
unconditionally" release the 15, but said there was no indication
the standoff would be resolved militarily, adding everyone
"believes that it can be solved diplomatically."


Washington has been conducting naval exercises in the Gulf
involving aircraft carriers and is spearheading a drive to stop
Iran from pursuing its nuclear programme.


Iran insists the programme is peaceful despite US fears it hides
efforts to build nuclear weapons.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to mounting pressure to release
the naval personnel, who are being held in a secret location.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate but Iran says they were in its
territorial waters.


The standoff has become "a dangerous test of wills in the Gulf,"
according to an editorial in the Financial Times.


"Escalation, by either side, with the narrow waters of the Gulf
already boiling with warships, carries huge risks," it warned.
"Iran still needs to be confronted with a reasonable menu of
rewards and penalties for its behaviour by a united international
community."


EU foreign ministers at a meeting in Germany Friday deplored the
seizure of the Britons as a breach of international law and
threatened to take "appropriate measures" if they were not
released soon.


The EU foreign ministers expressed their "unconditional support"
for London, although Iran labelled the EU's intervention
"unjustified, irrational, undocumented and irresponsible".


Foreign policy chief Javier Solana now has a mandate to talk to
Iranian leaders and seek a resolution to the situation.


The EU move came after Britain on Thursday secured a UN Security
Council condemnation of the Iranian action, but which was less
strident than it had hoped for.


Blair voiced his "disgust" at the latest broadcast of the captive
Britons and Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she saw no
sign that Iran was seeking to solve the crisis.


"I would like to apologise for entering your waters without any
permission," a Royal Navy serviceman, identified as Nathan Thomas
Summers, said in the interview broadcast on Iran's Arabic-
language Al-Alam television.


The interview was interspersed with images of the sailor sitting
with two of his comrades, including the only woman among the
captives, Faye Turney, smiling, and with bowls of fruit and
flowers in front of them.


Echoing fears in Britain that the personnel are being coerced
into "confessing," Roy Summers told The Sun newspaper that his
son was reading from an Iranian script, though he expressed
relief to see him "alive and well."


Firing off new volleys in the propaganda war, Iran also released
a third letter attributed to Turney, saying she had been
"sacrificed" to the policies of Britain and the United States.


Britain has already frozen most ties with Iran, a move Tehran
blamed for its decision not to free Turney as promised earlier
this week.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was quoted as telling
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan that Britain must
apologise.


However, Britain said it was giving "serious consideration" to a
diplomatic note from Iran which protests at the sailors' "illegal
act" but does not call for an apology.


Both Britain and Iran have produced maps and global positioning
system (GPS) coordinates to back their cases over where the
sailors were when they were seized at gunpoint on March 23.

