

Rival military lawyers portrayed Australian David Hicks as either
a harmless "wanna be" soldier or as a dangerous "enemy" loyal to
Al-Qaeda before a US military panel began deliberating on his
sentence Friday for war crimes.


Hours after Hicks was formally convicted of supporting terrorism,
his lawyer Major Michael Mori told a panel of military officers
that Hicks deserved lenient punishment as he posed no threat and
was sorry for his actions.


"David owes apologies to many people," Mori said, reading a
statement on behalf of Hicks.


"First and foremost, David wants to apologize to his family. He
wants to apologize to Australia and he wants to apologize to the
United States," said Mori as his client sat with a solemn
expression.


Earlier, Hicks -- dressed in an ill-fitting suit -- confirmed he
had trained with Al-Qaeda as part of a plea deal before the "war
on terror" tribunal in Guantanamo. He also admitted to
volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime during the
2001 US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


As part of the plea bargain agreement, Hicks faces a maximum of
seven years instead of a life term under the rules of the special
tribunals.


An eight-member panel of officers is to due to recommend a
sentence to the military judge presiding over the special
tribunals, set up to try terror suspects as part of the "war on
terror."


The panel began deliberations on Friday evening.


Mori said Hicks was a naive young man looking for battlefield
experience after having been rejected for military service in his
native Australia due to his only having an eighth grade
education.


Mori called his client a mere "wanna be" soldier whose heart was
not in Al-Qaeda but who sought out training where he could
"because he didn't have an education to be a real soldier."


Recounting how Hicks fled from advancing Northern Alliance forces
for three days, Mori said: "The 'wanna be' finally got a real
taste of it, and he ran away."


Mori suggested a sentence of one year and eight months given that
Hicks has spent more than five years at the Guantanamo detention
camp, had cooperated with US interrogations, admitted guilt and
behaved well as an inmate.


Calling Hicks "the enemy," lead prosecutor Lieutenant Colonel
Kevin Chenail told the tribunal the Australian had knowingly
sought out an organization bent on attacking the United States
and acquired dangerous skills.


"Gentlemen, the global war on terrorism is real," Chenail said.


"The enemy is sitting at the defense table ... While he was
training with Al- Qaeda he was not wearing a suit and tie, nor
was he wearing a uniform."


Chenail demanded a maximum seven-year sentence for a man who
"fully embraced Al- Qaeda" and who he said would have spent more
time on the front line if he had not been captured.


The Hicks case marks the first conviction by the controversial
military tribunals and the first conviction in a US war crimes
trial since World War II.


Under his plea deal, Hicks will leave Guantanamo within two
months for Australia to serve out whatever sentence he receives,
in line with an agreement between Washington and Canberra.


While the prosecution accepted limits on his maximum sentence,
Hicks agreed to several conditions including withdrawing
allegations he had been abused by US authorities, before or after
his transfer to the Guantanamo prison in 2002.


Australia's conservative government, a staunch ally of President
George W. Bush's administration, had lobbied Washington to
expedite the Hicks case and defuse an embarrassing political
issue in an election year.


Australian media, citing government sources, have reported he may
have to serve one to three years in Australia.

