

Defending champion Stuart Appleby had a lot of company at the top
of the leaderboard on Friday as half a dozen players shared the
halfway lead in the 5.5 million-dollar PGA Houston Open.


Appleby fired an even-par 72 that included three birdies and
three bogeys on Friday to remain tied for the lead.


The Australian had opened the tournament with a 66, his first
round under 70 in 21 rounds.


"Happy to be here," Appleby said of his position. "I need to sort
of get going like I did last year to move in that direction.


"We're going to have some weather tomorrow, maybe one, two inches
of rain, which will slow the day up. It will be a real battle who
is most comfortable with the start-stop game."


Appleby tied for 13th at the season-opening Mercedes Championship
but has finished no better than 33rd and missed a pair of cuts in
six events since. He also won here in 1999.


"The wind was a real factor," Appleby said. "I didn't create many
opportunties, and when I did, I wasn't putting good enough. So
you know, I need to certainly lift my game overall, but you know,
maybe be more confident on the putting green to try and move in
one direction."


With a two-day total of six-under 138, Appleby was tied with five
other players, including second-year pro Bubba Watson.


Watson carded a 67 on Friday, posting a bogey on his second hole
but nabbing six birdies.


Watson is seeking his first career PGA title.


He finished tied for fourth at the Buick Invitational in January
and has two top-10 finishes in eight starts this season. His best
career finish came as a rookie last season, when he placed third
at the Chrysler Classic.


"I'm trying to learn the game," Watson said. "I'm trying to learn
what makes me good.


"So far, I'm getting close. The nerves are still going to come in
like on this weekend. I feel like my game is starting to come
around and my mental game is starting to get better."


Also tied for the lead were Bob Estes (71), Jason Gore (68), D.J.
Brigman (68) and Jeff Maggert (71). Estes finished second here
last year.


"I didn't expect to be leading, being only 6-under-par after two
rounds," Estes said. "It did play tough this morning. It was just
hard to get the ball anywhere near the hole. You can certainly
make putts if you do, but I had too many putts more from the
center of the green, putting back to the corners."


Hunter Mahan (71), Tommy Armour (71) and Tom Byrum (68) were one
shot back.


Most of the top players have chosen to practice their way into
form leading up to The Masters next week.


Tiger Woods, defending Masters champion Phil Mickelson, South
African Ernie Els and three-time Houston Open champion Vijay
Singh of Fiji all are taking this week off.


The highest ranked player in the field is No. 5 Adam Scott, an
Australian who was at 4-under after a second-round 71.

