

Greenpeace said Saturday a ship of its anti-whaling activists
will be able to dock in Japan, ending a four-day standoff.


The Dutch-flagged "Esperanza," on a campaign to build sympathy in
Japan for whales, has been drifting in waters outside Tokyo since
Wednesday after its agent handling arrival paperwork backed out
under pressure.


Greenpeace said it expected finally to be able to dock Sunday at
Yokohama, south of Tokyo, after the environmentalist group took
care of the formalities itself.


"We essentially acted as our own agent. If you can't work through
the system, you have to work outside of it," Greenpeace
spokeswoman Sara Holden said by telephone from aboard the
Esperanza.


The 23 crew members of 10 nationalities plan to stay about a week
campaigning in Japan, which infuriates Western countries by
killing about 1,000 whales a year, mostly in the Antarctic Ocean.


Greenpeace has invited ambassadors of countries that are part of
the International Whaling Commission to visit the ship.


But she said Greenpeace has still failed to schedule a meeting
with Japan's sailors union, which pressured the ship's agent to
back out of handling the Esperanza's scheduled arrival in Tokyo.


"What we want to achieve is to really start a debate," Holden
said. "It's very important that both sides of this issue be
fairly represented and at the moment they're not."


Japan's mainstream media gives little coverage to protests in
Australia and New Zealand against the annual whaling hunt.


Japan argues that whale meat is part of its culture and has
labelled the environmentalists as "terrorists." Earlier this
year, activists of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, a more
militant splinter group of Greenpeace, threw acid on the whalers'
mother ship, the Nisshin Maru.


A fire later broke out on the Nisshin Maru, leaving one crewman
dead. While both sides said the fire was unconnected to the
protests, the incident forced Japan to cut short the hunt,
killing little more than half the intended catch.


Japan uses a loophole in a global ban on whaling that allows
killing the animals for research.

