

Leading swimming coaches said Saturday they are concerned
Australian great Ian Thorpe's celebrated career may be smeared by
doping allegations.


French sports newspaper L'Equipe claimed on its website Friday
that Thorpe, who retired from swimming in November, provided a
sample last May that showed abnormally high readings for
testosterone and luteinizing hormone.


Neither FINA nor Swimming Australia would Saturday confirm the
athlete's identity as being Thorpe, however world swimming's
governing body did not deny the report that named the retired 24
-year-old superstar.


FINA did confirm it has lodged an appeal with the Court of
Arbitration for Sport on a doping test, saying it was seeking
clarification of the adverse analysis.


The news has rocked the swimming world with Thorpe recognised as
a prominent campaigner against the use of performance-enhancing
drugs in the sport.


"He is a young man of unbelievably strong principles and
integrity and I've known him for a long time so I will support
Ian 1000 percent," Swimming Australia chief executive Glenn
Tasker said.


"At this very minute there isn't a positive test, it's an adverse
finding.


"Hopefully reasonably-thinking people will accept that for what
it is and there won't be hanging anyone until the judge has made
his decision."


Dutch head coach Jacco Verhaeren, the mentor for Thorpe's
greatest Olympic rival Pieter van den Hoogenband, said he was
dismayed that the Australian's career was being tainted by
allegations that could prove baseless.


"This is damaging somebody's career without any reason and I
think that's the worst about it," Verhaeren said at the world
championships here.


"The media should be very careful with this kind of information
... if it's from his own body there is no problem so there is
also no use to write about it.


"I think there are people to investigate these kinds of things
and I think we should first listen to these people before
damaging somebody who is an exceptional sportsman and to me a
very honest guy and to me he is not under suspicion."


Canadian head coach Pierre Lafontaine said he was disgusted the
allegations had been raised during the world championships.


"I find it astonishing that it's done at this time," said
Lafontaine.


"I just think it's ridiculous ... why is it done in the middle of
this meet when we are in the middle of a celebration of swimming
all around the world.


"I can only tell you that (Thorpe) has been a great ambassador
for sports all around the world and I would be very surprised (if
it were true)."

