

Zimbabwe's political and economic crises are set to deepen
further following a decision to have octogenarian leader Robert
Mugabe, already in power for 27 years, seek a new term in
elections next year, analysts said Saturday.


The ruling Zimbabwe African National Union Patriotic-Front (ZANU-
PF)'s top decision makers decided in Harare on Friday that
despite growing domestic opposition to Africa's oldest leader, he
would stand again for elections next year.


Commentators say the decision spells disaster for the southern
country whose economy is already on its knees and could see a
rise in political unrest.


"It's a very serious decision which signals a sure direction
towards the continuation of economic collapse and will deepen the
political crisis," said constitutional reform activist Lovemore
Madhuku.


Eldred Masunungure, a university of Zimbabwe political scientist,
said everything depended on the policy decision the leadership
adopts, "but if it is business as usual, clearly it will be
disastrous... it means the country will slide irrevocably down
the drain."


There will be "a total collapse which will see popular unrest in
the country", said Madhuku.


"The fear is that there will be so much unrest that the country
will break down ... to the levels we have seen in some west
African countries where they have had civil wars," he added.


"Disaster is in the making. It will accelerate the economic
meltdown," said the secretary general of the Zimbawe Congres of
Trade Unions (CTU), Wellington Chibebe.


Opposition within Zimbabwe has soared in recent months with
inflation now the highest in the world at 1,730 percent and
forecast by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to climb up to
4,000 percent by year end. Four out of five people are out of
work and live in abject poverty.


The economic woes have driven millions out of the country with
the CTU estimating that half of the the country's 13 million
people are in the diaspora, with at least three million in nearby
South Africa.


Commentators fear political unrest will worsen, although there
are indications that even if re-elected, the 83-year old might
not complete his term.


According to the state-run Herald, ZANU-PF is also proposing
contitutional reforms that would enable parliament to elect a
successor if an incumbent president fails to complete his term
due to death, or steps down.


If he wins a new term next year, Mugabe, who has ruled the former
British colony since independence in 1980, would remain head of
state until the age of 89.


"The political landscape will be very nasty in terms of violence
and elimination," said Chibebe.


"At the moment they are beating up people, but their extent of
desperation will soon see them start shooting people," said
Madhuku, who earlier this month was badly assaulted by police,
along with the opposition MDC leader and dozens of others.


Mugabe, who has been widely blamed by the West for the arrests
and assaults of his opponents and critics, said the group asked
for the beating because they provoked the police.


While there have been rumblings of discontent within ZANU-PF
towards Mugabe, no- one put their head above the parapet to
challenge his nomination during the lengthy debates at the
party's headquarters in the capital.


The cash-strapped government is also expected to take care of an
expanded house of assembly after next year's elections, following
ZANU-PF's central committee approval of plans to increase the
number of lawmakers from 150 to 210.

