

Rebels shot down an Ethiopian helicopter gunship over Mogadishu
on Friday as the worst fighting in the Somali capital for more
than 15 years left dozens of civilians dead.


Clashes between insurgent fighters and joint Ethiopian and Somali
government forces erupted across the city before the Mi-24
gunship was hit by a missile and came down on waste land in
Mogadishu airport, killing both Ethiopian crew members.


The Ethiopian government late Friday said its army had killed
more than 200 insurgents in Mogadishu since launching an
offensive in the city as part of its support for the struggling
Somali government.


"More than 200 armed people have been killed, several wounded,
and 13 have surrendered," according to a statement from
Ethiopia's information ministry, cited by the official ENA news
agency.


"Under requisition from the transitional government of Somalia,
Ethiopian forces took an offensive on selected insurgency targets
in Mogadishu, and as a result peace has been reaffirmed in the
Somali capital," it said.


The death toll was the highest since the start of the year, when
Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional government drive
out the leaders of the Islamist movement controlling Mogadishu.


The fighting in the past two days was triggered by an Ethiopian-
spearheaded offensive against Islamist insurgents who have been
carrying out guerrilla-style attacks.


"The idea is to clear Mogadishu of gunmen," an Ethiopian diplomat
in Somalia told AFP.


The United Nations criticised the Ethiopian offensive.


"We don't believe that forceful disarmament in Mogadishu can be a
proper way," UN representative for Somalia Francois Fall told AFP
in Nairobi. "We are calling on all the parties to stop fighting."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon remains concerned about the escalating
fighting in the Somali capital and intends to take up the issue
with regional leaders, a spokesman said Friday.


The Geneva-based International Committee of the Red Cross voiced
concern over the high number of civilian casualities.


"The population of Mogadishu is caught up in the worst fighting
in more than 15 years. The ICRC deplores the high number of
civilian casualties," it said in a statement.


"It urgently calls on all parties to respect the rules of
international humanitarian law and take all feasible precautions
to spare civilians and their property," the statement said.


The ICRC put the number of wounded in the past two days at 229,
mostly civilians.


The downing of the helicopter and the dragging of dead soldiers
through the streets this past week carried dark echoes of a
failed UN-backed US peace operation in Somalia in the early
1990s.


The shooting down of US helicopters in 1993 precipitated the US
withdrawal from Somalia, and was made famous in the film "Black
Hawk Down".


The helicopter shot down on Friday crashed just 500 metres (550
yards) away from a base of African Union peacekeeping troops.


"There was nothing we could do. We saw it hit the ground. We saw
a fire and we moved in to see," spokesman for the Ugandan
peacekeepers Captain Paddy Ankunda told AFP by telephone.


"Our troops managed to secure the wreckage as well as taking away
the bodies. Only two bodies were recovered."


Uganda has some 1,500 peacekeeping troops in Mogadishu.


"The war is continuing," said Ankunda, while stressing that his
troops had not been involved in any fighting.


The Ethiopian offensive Thursday shattered a shaky six-day
ceasefire with the powerful Hawiye clan, which has largely
controlled the Somali capital since 1991.


The United Nations said on Thursday that 57,000 people had fled
the coastal city since February, 12,000 in the last week alone.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into inter-clan warfare that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

