

All of Brazil's 49 airports were set to reopen early Saturday
following a deal reached by the government and striking air
traffic controllers to end a walkout that has wreaked havoc on
the nation's air transportation system, a labor representative
said.


The agreement to end the strike was reached late Friday, during
an emergency meeting between members of the Brazilian cabinet and
unions representing the controllers, according Normando
Cavalcante, an attorney representing the controllers.


Under the accord, the government agreed to suspend planned
transfers of striking workers from the airport of Brasilia, the
capital, to other parts of the country, and begin talks about
increasing worker salaries and "demilitarizing" the industry.


The Brazilian military exercises significant control over traffic
in the country's airspace, and most air traffic controllers
technically work for it.


The negotiations took place while Brazilian President Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva was out of the country, visiting the United States,
where he is scheduled to meet Saturday with President George W.
Bush.


But according to the report, Lula had called top defense and
airline industry officials and urged them to step back from a
confrontation with the strikers.


The conflict reached a boiling point earlier Friday when the
state airports management agency Infraero cancelled all takeoffs
across the country of 190 million, and said that the only
operations allowed were the landings of planes already in flight.


Controllers threatened to go on a hunger strike and stop work to
press their demands.


When some started following through, authorities demanded the
controllers get back to work or face penalties.


Eighteen controllers were ordered arrested for having walked off
the job and holed up at their workplaces, Globo television
reported.


Airport waiting areas were jammed with thousands of people, many
desperate and confused by the situation.


The frustration was the most evident in the biggest cities: at
Congonhas and Guarulhos airports in Sao Paulo, and the Rio de
Janeiro airports as well.


Among the most affected, most heavily trafficked are the airports
controlled by the Cindacta-1 control center in Brasilia.


It is in charge of flights in the states of Sao Paulo, Minas
Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Goias, Brasilia, southern
Tocantins and Mato Grosso.


In Lula's absence, Vice President Jose Alencar urgently returned
to the capital from the southeastern state of Belo Horizonte,
which he was visiting, saying that "the situation went beyond the
acceptable limits."


Defense Minister Waldir Pires had told reporters that while he
recognized the right of air traffic controllers to fight for
better working conditions, it was also important to think about
other Brazilians affected by the labor conflict.


"We cannot make anybody hostage of the current situation," Pires
said without specifying what measure the military could take. "We
have to address the interests of the Brazilian nation as a
whole."


Brazil's air transport system has been in crisis for six months,
since controllers started working to rule to demand more be hired
and to demand that the entire flight management system be
upgraded after the worst air tragedy in Brazilian history last
September, when a Gol airlines Boeing 737 collided with a private
jet and plunged to the ground, killing 154 people.

