

Bulgarians and Romanians are starting to feel the benefits of EU
membership three months after joining the bloc, but deplore their
low standard of living, which is a far cry from that of average
Europeans.


In the northern town of Ruse, the largest Bulgarian city on the
Danube, as well as in the small Romanian town of Giurgiu directly
across the river, the flag of the European Union flies on all
public buildings, banks and even a theatre.


On the bridge linking the two cities -- the only bridge, built 55
years ago, along the over-300-kilometre (185-mile) stretch of the
Danube separating Bulgaria and Romania -- crossing the border is
now done "European-style," quickly and efficiently.


Gone are the once familiar queues of vehicles, together with the
burdensome customs procedures, and a single checkpoint now
swiftly checks identity cards.


Bulgarian drivers are no longer required to pay a hefty 50-euro
(66-dollar) Romanian environmental tax -- a quarter of their
average monthly salary -- for the privilege of crossing the
border. The place has been tidied up and the prostitutes are
gone.


"We used to spend at least four hours queueing at this border
checkpoint, now it takes us only fifteen minutes to get through,"
truck drivers said happily.


"Romania and Bulgaria's entry into the EU is also a great relief
for us," said Nejdet Mustafa, a Turkish truck driver.


"Now that Bulgarian and Romanian trucks pass without custom
checks, our documents are processed much faster," he said.


A Romanian policeman added: "Many more Romanians than Bulgarians
cross over as prices are lower in Bulgaria."


Indeed, at a restaurant in downtown Ruse, one in every five
customers is Romanian.


"I came for a beer," said Marius Maurescu, a tradesman from
Bucarest, 60 kilometres (35 miles) away. A former engineer, until
recently he sold waterproof cotton fabrics imported from
countries outside the EU, in Romania.


"Now I plan to buy them in the EU as prices have become more
competitive with the elimination of customs taxes," he said.


A couple of Bucharest civil servants and their 10-year-old
daughter were also enjoying a weekday lunch in Ruse.


"We are making the most of restaurants and shops here --
something that was difficult before because of the queues and the
border formalities," they said.


"But we also see that in Bulgaria, as in Romania, decades of
communist rule have created a gap between the standard of living
here and that of other Europeans," the wife, Mariana Dragu, told
AFP.


A Ruse saleswoman with a European flag in her shop window fondly
remembered "the mad day" of January 2, when a special shuttle bus
made runs between Ruse and Giurgiu, taking hundreds of people
from one side of the Danube to the other free of charge.


"We were happy to rediscover each other," she said with a smile.


At a restaurant just outside Ruse, owner Galia Lazarova told AFP
however: "In ten years' time, we will be glad to be in the EU,
but at this stage we only see the bureaucracy getting worse."


"I have applied for money from the European funds to invest in an
amusement park but the administration keeps inventing new and
increasingly complicated procedures under the pretext of EU
accession," she complained.


"I wonder if the officials are not simply looking for a bribe,"
she added.


In Bulgaria's capital Sofia, a tradesman, Marin Mihailov, was
also sceptical about the government's efforts to curb corruption,
a phenomenon which he said was so widespread that "to root it out
we would need a French, English or German supervisor in every
ministry or municipal government office."

