

EU foreign ministers began talks Saturday on how to handle the
new Palestinian unity government and encourage the Middle East
peace process, buoyed by a revived Arab League initiative.


Ministers voiced optimism as they entered the second day of an
informal meeting in Bremen, northern Germany, their first get-
together since Arab leaders revived a five-year-old Middle East
peace plan in Riyadh this week.


The blueprint offers Israel full normalisation of relations if it
withdraws from all land occupied in the 1967 war and allows the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


"I take some confidence from the fact that the meeting of the
Arab League not only took place and showed some result but was
also received with a cautious response on the part of the Israeli
government," German Foreign Minister Frank- Walter Steinmeier,
presiding over the Bremen meeting, told reporters.


Luxembourg Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn said the Arab
initiative and the formation of the Palestinian unity government
were positive moves which lent the possibility of encouraging
Israel "to take seriously the hand extended by the Arabs".


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said in interviews published
Friday that the Jewish state could clinch global peace with its
enemies within five years, after the Arab leaders revived their
peace plan.


On the final day of their two-day meeting in Bremen, the
ministers were to be briefed by EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana on his talks with Arab leaders at the Arab League summit
in Saudi Arabia earlier this week.


"We will listen to Solana and I think a positive sign will come
out of today's meeting," Asselborn said.


The EU ministers will also discuss how to deal with the new
Palestinian government.


Solana, who hailed a "new Arab consensus" as he attended the Arab
League summit, set the tone for relations with the Palestinian
unity government by talking in Riyadh to the non-Hamas president
Mahmud Abbas and foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr but not the Hamas
prime minister Ismail Haniya.


Like the United States, the EU considers the militant Muslim
Hamas group a terrorist organisation and has boycotted the Hamas-
led Palestinian administration which preceded the unity
government.


The EU ministers will also be discussing how to continue sending
aid to the Palestinians without dealing directly with Hamas.


"We need movement, the standstill is no use any more," said
Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik, although a temporary
funding mechanism, bypassing the Palestinian government remains
in place.


As the ministers began their deliberations, German Chancellor
Angela Merkel began a three-day trip to Jordan before going to
Israel, Lebanon and the Palestinian territories.


She said the Arab League agreement had "created a lot of
movement" in the region.


However EU diplomats warn that the refugee issue remains one
serious stumbling block to peace.


Almost 4.5 million Palestinian refugees and their descendants
live today in dozens of refugee camps across the Middle East in
precarious conditions.


Israel vehemently rejects any suggestions of a return for the
refugees, arguing the influx would effectively erase the Jewish
character of the state.


On Friday the EU foreign ministers took a strong line against
Iran over its seizure of 15 British navy personnel, saying it was
a breach of international law and threatening to take action if
they are not freed soon.


The ministers offered their "unconditional support" for the
British government, represented here by Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett, over the crisis and called for the "immediate
and unconditional release" of the 14 men and one woman.


Later Saturday they were to return to the Iran issue in a debate
over its nuclear ambitions.

