

Chinese designer Lu Kun held a fan inscribed with the words
"Blessed China" as he acknowledged the applause from the crowd
after unveiling his autumn-winter 2007 collection in Singapore.


But the 25-year-old Lu's efforts to conquer the global fashion
world have not yet been as blessed as he would like.


Lu, one of a pool of designers in a country better known for
fashion knock-offs and massive textile exports, says he faces
negative stereotypes held by international buyers and a lack of
fashion sophistication in his homeland.


"I have been published in Vogue and many media, but at the end of
the day, we don't have orders," the boyish-looking Lu complained.
"That makes it difficult for any fashion brand or design brand to
survive."


Singapore's Fashion Festival, which ends Sunday, was the latest
to bring international exposure to Lu, who studied design and
tailoring at a vocational college in his native Shanghai.


Italian fashion journalists have compared his work -- also shown
in London and Berlin, he says -- to the collections of industry
powerhouses Dolce and Gabbana and Lanvin, according to an article
in Vogue China.


But the flattering publicity has not translated into sales for
Lu, who designs both ready-to-wear and made-to-measure haute
couture creations.


"Our government gives very cheap rent for designers for the
design studios, but that's not enough. You can provide the space
but no customers," he said, adding many buyers were afraid to
take the risk of purchasing his clothes.


Lu's business manager, Ramon Gil, said connections often still
count for more than talent in China's emerging fashion industry.


"People with little talent have a lot of connections," Gil said,
but their work is "not at an international standard."


In Singapore, one model walked down the runway in a sharp-looking
black military-style jacket and black tights, exuding modern
feminine confidence.


The ready-to-wear outfit did not fit the stereotypical mould of
embroidered buttons and high-necked cheongsams that some foreign
buyers still seem to expect from China.


"People sometimes criticise me -- why don't I do more Chinese
style because I am Chinese?" said Lu, clad in a T-shirt, jacket
and jeans.


"We are trying to convince people that Lu Kun can design Chinese
style, Western style. It is up to him as designer to decide on
the aesthetic."


Fellow designer Frankie Xie has had more success on the
international stage. Last September, he became the first from
China to take part in Paris fashion week when his Jefen label
opened the catwalk shows in the French capital.


He returned to Paris in February with an English country
gentleman theme for Jefen, and said he had received a lot of
demand from European buyers, amid surprise that a Chinese
designer was showing in Paris at all.


"Everyone now knows that China has the production but they don't
know that it has the design," Xie said in Paris, where fellow
Chinese designer Ma Ke exhibited his own collection.


Xie, 46, now has about 20 shops in his homeland.


China has no shortage of promising young designers, said London-
based couture footwear designer Jimmy Choo.


Choo is also a visiting professor at the London College of
Fashion, one of the schools where Chinese designers with
international aspirations are now enrolling.


While Chinese designers previously just copied the patterns of
established Western brands, he said: "Now people don't copy, they
will look for top universities and send the students there."


Counterfeiting remains rampant in China but designers say the
country is moving away from its reputation as a mass manufacturer
of garments.


"They talk about Chinese creativity instead of Chinese
counterfeits," said New York-based Hong Kong designer Vivienne
Tam.


But she said there was still room to improve.


"I think they need to compete in creativity, not just the
workmanship," said Tam, who brought her latest fall-winter
collection to the Singapore festival.


Lu seems to have the creative talent but faces a major problem at
home, his manager says: the Chinese have not yet developed enough
fashion knowledge to appreciate home-grown haute couture.


"It's a time when people don't understand design... They don't
understand colours," said Gil.


"So they start buying only international brands" which they
believe must be better, he said.


A lack of fashion business expertise is also common among Chinese
buyers, he added.


"If you are looking at China as a whole, it's going to take some
time to get an average level of fashion knowledge that is
comparable to other countries," he said.


Tam said China was becoming more style-conscious, but cautioned:
"The taste still needs nurturing."


While Shanghai's fashion sensibilities will soon match those of
Paris or Milan, the rest of China will need more time, according
to Lu.


"We have to be patient," he said.

