

US President George W. Bush, bracing for new battles with
Congress over Iraq, moved Saturday to shore up his Republican
base as he called for resistance against a Democratic tax plan, a
traditional unifying issue for conservatives.


In his weekly radio address, the president reiterated his
condemnation of both House and Senate versions of Iraq war
funding bills that contain deadlines for troop withdrawals from
the country.


The Senate version that authorizes 122 billion dollars for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan suggests that all US combat troops
be pulled out from Iraq by March 31, 2008. It passed the upper
chamber Thursday.


The 124-billion-dollar version, approved by the House of
Representatives a week earlier, mandates that the withdrawal be
completed by August 31, 2008.


Echoing his earlier statements, Bush said Democratic-controlled
Congress had passed deadlines "for surrender and withdrawal in
Iraq" that he believed "would have disastrous consequences for
our safety here at home."


But he directed the main thrust of his attack at barely noticed
budget resolutions passed recently by both chambers, insisting
that they "would raise your taxes and raise government spending
in Washington."


The Democratic plan, argued the president, would result in a tax
increase totaling nearly 400 billion dollars over the next five
years.


"To put this in perspective, this would be the largest tax
increase in our nation's history, even larger than the tax
increase the Democrats passed the last time they controlled
Congress," said Bush.


The push for unity over a secondary issue comes amid indications
of serious erosion in the coalition of Republicans and some pro-
war Democrats, like Senator Joseph Lieberman, that has allowed
the White House to finance its Iraq campaign.


Most analysts here have noted that the withdrawal deadline would
not have passed in the Senate 51-47 had it not been for a sudden
about-face by two senators - Republican Chuck Hagel and Democrat
Ben Nelson of conservative Nebraska.


Just on March 15, both of them voted to kill a non-binding
resolution urging the president to begin an Iraq pullout within a
year. Two weeks later, the two had made a political U-turn.


The metamorphosis is being attributed to new opinion polls that
clearly indicate that, as far as Iraq was concerned, the majority
of Americans were now on the side of Congress.


A CBS News survey 59 percent of Americans supported a timetable
for withdrawing most US troops from Iraq by September 2008. A USA
Today/Gallup poll found 60 percent favored this idea.


More importantly, the CBS survey showed 36 percent of Republicans
now also supported the pullout deadline, a finding that was
certain to set off alarm bells at the White House.


"People are concerned and worried about the party's prospects" in
2008,  Steve Duprey, a former chairman of the Republican Party
organization in the state of New Hampshire, confessed to
Politico.com.


Bush has vowed to veto any war funding bill that contains
language establishing a withdrawal deadline, and so far he
appears to have the votes to sustain such a veto.


But analysts said there was no certainty how the battle will play
out, if the erosion of the president's political base continued
at the current pace.


Meanwhile, Democrats kept pounding at the president on the Iraq
war, calling the situation in the country a "mess."


Delivering a weekly radio response on behalf of the party,
retired Marine Reserve Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Horne said "the
commander-in-chief has failed to properly lead the troops"
fighting overseas.


"If the president vetoes this bill because he doesn't want to
formally demonstrate progress in Iraq, never in the history of
war would there be a more blatant example of a commander-in-chief
undermining the troops," Horne said.

