

Sparks are bound to fly when West Indies skipper Brian Lara bats
against ace Sri Lankan off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan in a
World Cup Super Eights match here on Sunday.


The pair were involved in an engrossing duel in a three-Test
series in Sri Lanka in 2001, with Lara proving why is considered
one of the best batsmen against spin in modern cricket.


If there was any West Indian batsman who succeeded in dominating
the Sri Lankan spinner, it was Lara who plundered 688 runs in
three matches with three centuries on slow turning pitches.


But it was never easy upstaging champion spinner Murali, who kept
probing the batsmen with his subtle variations to play a big role
in his team's 3-0 series victory with 24 wickets.


Muralitharan has already described Lara as "more classy" than
others and the "most dangerous left-hand batsman I have ever
bowled to in my career".


Lara has already earned lavish praises from retired Australian
leg-spin wizard Shane Warne.


"(Sachin) Tendulkar and Lara are the two best batsmen of my era,"
Warne said.


"I think these two guys have been the toughest at the
international level. Lara because of his placement. I can't
believe it. It's just amazing. He can dominate a game, no matter
who's bowling."


Lara, quick to spot error in line and length, uses his feet
remarkably well against spinners and never gives them a chance to
find any rhythm.


Pakistani leg-spinner Danish Kaneria was at the receiving end in
a home Test series last year as he was never allowed to settle by
Lara.


"I don't think getting hit by the world's number-one batsman is a
failure on my part. I am actually happy that a player as great as
Lara hit me around. I learn from that, but he has hit everyone
from around the world," said Kaneria.


"He is a fantastic timer of the ball. He sees the ball from my
hand and reads it so well which is the sign of a great player. I
wanted to trap him but he was thinking ahead of me."


Lara is in form in his last World Cup, having already scored 195
runs in four innings with one half-century. He is also the only
West Indian with more than 10,000 runs in one-day internationals.


Muralitharan also didn't take time to find his rhythm in the
ongoing tournament, beginning with two wickets against Bermuda.
He was at his best in big matches against India and South Africa.


The Indian batsmen, considered the best against spin, looked
uncomfortable against the Sri Lankan who took three wickets for
41 runs off 10 tight overs.


He also bagged three wickets against South Africa and was
instrumental in keeping the batsmen silent in the middle overs.


Muralitharan has the ability to turn the ball on any surface and
is likely to pose a threat to the West Indies on a pitch which is
expected to favour slow bowlers.


The Sri Lankan is the second-highest wicket-taker in the shorter
version of the game with 441, behind only retired Pakistani left-
arm fast bowler Wasim Akram (502).

