

Michael Vaughan breathed a huge sigh of relief as England got
their World Cup Super Eights campaign off to a winning start on
Friday with a 48-run victory over Ireland.


The win also gave England their first two points which moved them
provisionally into fourth place in the table.


But the England captain admitted there was plenty still to do
ahead of a more testing clash against 1996 world champions Sri
Lanka in Antigua next Wednesday.


"There is a concern over the top order," said Vaughan who was out
for six while fellow opener Ed Joyce, a former Ireland
international, was dismissed for one.


Ian Bell, at three, made 31 before the middle order of Kevin
Pietersen (48), Paul Collingwood (90) and Andrew Flintoff (43)
came to the rescue as England posted a challenging total of 266-7
in their 50 overs.


"We will need to work hard now in the nets to get ready for Sri
Lanka. But the most important thing was to get two points as we
didn't carry through any points from the first round," said
Vaughan.


"Also credit to the Irish bowlers who bowled very well."


Ireland skipper Trent Johnston said the key to the match was the
last 10 overs of the England innings when they conceded nine runs
an over.


"We fought really hard but Paul Collingwood batted well in the
last 10 overs and we went for about nine an over. It was just a
matter of inches, we didn't get the balls right.


"Then Monty Panesar and Michael Vaughan came on and put the
pressure on. But we kept fighting and it's a tribute to the team
that Michael brought Andrew Flintoff back at the end to clean up
the tail."


Ireland face South Africa, the world number one, in their next
match here on Tuesday but Johnston is confident of picking up
another win in their remaining five matches to add to their shock
victory against Pakistan in the first round.


"Our death bowling at this level is not up to scratch," added the
captain.


"We are not used to playing at this level but we are enjoying the
experience. Hopefully we can sneak another win."

