

The dollar turned lower Friday as a move by Washington to slap
trade sanctions on China sparked fears of a rise in protectionism
that dented the greenback's recovery.


The euro rose to 1.3356 dollars at 2100 GMT from 1.3331 dollars
in New York late on Thursday, and briefly hit a two-year high of
1.3400 dollars


The US currency stood at 117.81 yen, down from 118.02 yen late on
Thursday.


News of US plans to impose sanctions on some Chinese imports hurt
the greenback amid speculation that China would take retaliatory
action.


Stephen Malyon at Scotiabank said the announcement by the US
Commerce Department "sabotages what would have been a steady week
for the dollar."


"The currency market regarded the measure as a negative for an
economy (the United States) that has enjoyed the benefits of
cheaply-produced foreign goods," Malyon added.


CMC Markets analyst Ashraf Laidi said the move was reminiscent of
Washington's action in 2002 to impose tariffs on steel imports.


"The US dollar peaked in February 2002, the same month of the US
administration's decision to slap tariffs on foreign steel," he
said.


"The decision, albeit reversed by the WTO more than a year later,
helped trigger a 58 percent depreciation in the dollar against
the euro, 13 percent decline against the yen, and a 32 percent
drop in trade-weighted terms."


He said Friday's announcement "will likely trigger possible
retaliatory acts from China such as further diversification of
its forex reserves, which will likely hit the US currency."


The dollar, which had been slowly gaining ground after some
strong US economic data, also was hurt by rumors that US citizens
had been ordered to leave Bahrain.


Jamie Coleman at Thomson IFR Markets said rumors were running
wild.


"One making the rounds is that US citizens have been warned to
leave Bahrain in preparation for a strike against Iran," Coleman
said.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2152 Swiss francs
after 1.2170 Thursday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9679 dollars from 1.9620.

