

Giant-killer Guillermo Canas defeated seventh-seeded Ivan
Ljubicic in straight sets here Friday to reach the final of the
6.9 million-dollar Sony Ericsson Open.


Canas, who defeated world No. 1 Roger Federer in the fourth round
- his second win over the mighty Swiss in as many tournaments -
downed Croatia's Ljubicic 7-5, 6-2.


In the final, he'll face Novak Djokovic, the 10th seed from
Serbia who steamrolled 12th-seeded Briton Andy Murray 6-1, 6-0.


It marked the second time in the last two weeks that Djokovic
coasted past the Scottish teen in the semi-finals of an ATP
Masters Series event.


The Serb also cruised to a straight-sets victory in the last
meeting between the 19-year-olds at the Indian Wells semis.


"I'm very proud of myself," said Djokovic, who fell to world No.
2 Rafael Nadal in the Indian Wells final.


"I've managed to play two Master Series tournament finals in a
row. That's a real big achievement for me."


This one could not have been much easier as Djokovic needed just
62 minutes to dismiss Murray, who was lethargic throughout.


"I don't want to make any excuses today," Murray said. "He played
better than me, I wasn't very good. It was the worst match that
I've probably played since I've been on the tour."


Djokovic had reached the semi-finals with a hard-fought upset of
second seed Nadal in Wednesday's quarter-finals.


He picked up where he left off two days later, converting 71
percent of his first serves while breaking Murray five times.


The match swung Djokovic's way early. With the first set knotted
at 1-1, the Serbian faced a triple break point but rallied to
hold serve, broke Murray in the next game and never looked back.


"In that third game, I managed to come back from 0-40," Djokovic
said. "I made the break in the next service game off Andy. Even
though he had advantage, I played better. Since then, the match
was basically over."


Ljubicic's bid to stay on course for a first Masters Series title
was doomed by his inability to take advantage of any of his seven
break point opportunities.


"I think that shows everything," he said. "The first set I lost,
I think, five points on my serve and the whole set I lost a
serve.


"In these windy conditions, it's difficult to play against him,"
Ljubicic added of Canas' formidable defensive skills.


In Canas, the 19-year-old rising star Djokovic will meet an
opponent on a roll.


Once ranked eighth in the world, Canas was suspended for doping
in 2005 in a decision he is still fighting.


Canas has come back strong, winning his seventh career title at
Costa Do Sauipe, Brail, this year. His victory over Ljubicic sent
the highest seed left in the draw packing.


But the 29-year-old's biggest splash this week was his three-set
victory over Federer.


On March 11, Canas had upset Federer in straight sets at Indian
Wells, ending his 41-match winning streak.


"I'm feeling great to be in the final," Canas said. "I try to
beat the sixth seed in a row."


He said he watched Djokovic's match, and expected a difficult
challenge in Sunday's best-of-five final.


"I think it's going to be a tough match for me, but really I feel
very confident in my game.  I know if I play well, I have a
chance to beat him."

