

German Chancellor Angela Merkel started a Middle East tour on
Saturday bidding to give a European nudge to a fresh Arab-led
initiative to find peace between Israel and the Palestinians.


Merkel was beginning her three-day trip in Jordan before going to
Israel, Lebanon and the Palestinian territories.


Her visit comes in the wake of an agreement by Arab leaders this
week to relaunch a five-year-old peace plan that has been
rejected by Israel as it stands.


Merkel said before leaving Berlin that the Arab League agreement
had "created a lot of movement" in the region, but warned against
over-optimism, saying a "very difficult path" lay ahead.


With Germany currently holding the six-month presidency of the
European Union, Merkel wants to show that Europe can be a good
listener.


Her trip follows recent visits to the region by US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.


The Arab proposal, offering Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 war, allows the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


Israel refused to accept the initiative, although Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert said in interviews published Friday that the new
spirit of Arab consensus meant the Jewish state could reach a
peace settlement with its enemies within five years.


"A bloc of states is emerging that understands that they may have
been wrong to think that Israel is the world's greatest problem,"
Olmert said in an interview with the liberal Haaretz. "That is a
revolutionary change in outlook."


Merkel will discuss the outcome of the Arab League meeting with
Jordan's King Abdullah II on Saturday before flying to Israel for
an informal dinner with Olmert. She will also meet Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas.


One of the German leader's main aims on her trip is to get "a
picture of the situation" following the naming in mid-March of
the new Palestinian unity government of Hamas militants and
Western-backed Fatah, officials said.


Despite the air of optimism, Merkel will carry an uncompromising
and unchanging message to Abbas on behalf of Europe: unless the
new Palestinian government implements the conditions laid down by
the Quartet on the Middle East, the international community will
not work with it.


The unity government has refused to meet demands set by the
Quartet -- the EU, the United States, Russia and the United
Nations -- to renounce violence, recognise Israel and abide by
past peace accords.


Germany has made reviving the work of the Quartet one of the
priorities of its EU presidency and oversaw a meeting in Berlin
in February which produced little apart from a promise to meet
again soon.


European sources said this week that initial plans were being
made for the next Quartet meeting to take place soon, possibly at
the Egyptian resort of Sharm el- Sheikh in the second half of
April.


While Merkel took Europe's message to the Middle East, EU foreign
ministers began talks Saturday on how to handle the new
Palestinian unity government and encourage the peace process.


They were to be briefed by EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana,
who attended the Arab League meeting in Riyadh.


As the Quartet resumes its multi-lateral efforts to find peace,
Washington has switched tactics, with Rice spearheading a new
approach of "parallel" talks between the Israelis and
Palestinians.


In Lebanon, Merkel is scheduled to meet beleaguered Western-
backed Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and Nabih Berri, the
parliament speaker and an influential pro-Syrian leader.


The chancellor is also expected to visit one of the German ships
taking part in the UNIFIL peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon
which was reinforced after last year's devastating war between
Israel and the Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah.

