

A small town of some 1,700 souls in deepest Burgundy has the
uncanny distinction of voting in exactly the same way as the
country as a whole in every French presidential election since
1981.


Today -- with three weeks to go until the 2007 vote -- the people
of Donzy are again sizing up their options. And like the rest of
France, they are finding it hard to choose.


"I have never seen such a high number of undecided voters," says
socialist mayor Bernard Devin.


"Here people do not have a very good impression of Paris
politicians. Left and right come and go, but nothing changes. We
feel no one cares about the rural world. There's not much faith
in politics. Maybe that is why it's difficult to decide," he
says.


If Donzy votes like the rest of the country, it can only be pure
coincidence. Here, in cattle and cereal country 20 miles (30
kilometres) east of the river Loire, immigration and law-and-
order matter much less than the influx of Parisian weekenders or
the need to recruit a new family doctor. A microcosm, it is not.


Still, here as elsewhere there is a sense that the coming
election matters more than most. Whoever wins -- rightwinger
Nicolas Sarkozy, socialist Segolene Royal or centrist Francois
Bayrou -- all are from a new generation of leaders, and all have
made the same diagnosis that France is a country deep in crisis.


"What's different about this election is that people have woken
up to the fact of our national decline, says Thierry Flandin, a
cereal farmer and local councillor who plans to vote for Sarkozy.


"Sarko speaks of the need for a clean break, and it is very
seductive. Everyone can see that the country has run out of
money. Look at the pensions system, look at the the 35 hour week.
These things are unsustainable. There is a real feeling that we
are at a turning-point," he says.


Sarkozy, who resigned last week as interior minister, has been
criticised in some quarters for his tough line on immigration and
law-and-order -- but that is not an issue in Donzy, where last
week's riots at a railway station in Paris were viewed with
horror. Here support for the police is universal.


Of greater concern to country voters is Sarkozy's perceived
liberalism on economic issues, and the feeling that -- as leader
of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) and after being
in government for five years -- he is part of the Paris 'system'.


"Sarko has been steeped in it for years. He is not going to
change anything. What interests him is not governing -- but
power. He's like a little dog. He barks loud, but he's got no
bite," says self-employed builder Jean Beunza, who says "the
whole system needs to go up in smoke".


Like many in Donzy, Beunza is tempted by Bayrou -- leader of the
small Union for French Democracy (UDF) -- who makes much of his
own origins as a farmer's son from the Pyrenees. "He's got good
roots. He's more like one of us," he says.


"Bayrou's idea of left and right working together is mine as
well," agrees Frederic Coudray, who runs a family business
raising geese for foie gras.


"And I have always voted for people begining with 'B'. There was
Raymond Barre and Edouard Balladur (two centre-right prime
ministers). Now it's Bayrou or Buffet, Besancenot and Bove," he
says, citing three candidates of the far-left. "There's no
contest".


In 2002 support in Donzy for far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen
was around the national figure of 16.8 percent, but this time --
despite the large number of road-side posters bearing his burly
image -- few expect him to do as well.


"Last time there was a real buzz," says Flandin, "but I don't
sense it today."


As for Royal -- the first woman to have a real chance of becoming
French president -- even Donzy's socialists are less than
enthusiastic.


"I am going to vote left," says mayor Devin, without committing
himself. "But to be honest I am disappointed. She has a
matriarchal manner which is flat and monotonous. And on top of
that the socialists have no real programme. They keep adding bits
on and taking bits off. It lacks structure."


"I might have voted socialist but she just doesn't appeal to me
as a person," says Donzy's pharmacist Herve Salavert.


"For me the choice is Sarko, Bayrou or a blank vote," he says. "I
am a little afraid of Sarko's liberalism, and the problem with
Bayrou is that we have no idea who he would govern with. So I am
having a hard time making up my mind."


Just like the rest of France.

