

Qatar will hold municipal elections on Sunday in the run-up to
the gas-rich Gulf state's first-ever partial legislative polls
later this year, but voters are showing little interest in the
exercise.


The municipal elections on Sunday have failed to stir up
enthusiasm among Qatari voters as the gas-rich Gulf state awaits
its first partial legislative polls, expected to take place later
this year.


Electoral centres housed in large tents have been almost empty,
amid calm debates and uninspiring speeches, ahead of elections
for the capital's municipal council -- the sole local government
in the tiny country.


"Certainly, attendance is very weak in some districts, but
excellent in others. Most importantly, these debates are a good
exercise and a progressive practice for democracy," said the vice
president of the emirate's electoral commission, Sheikh Khaled
bin Jabr al-Thani.


Others were less optimistic.


"Enthusiasm is nil among a large number of citizens," said Yussef
Mohammad Darwish, editor of Al-Raya newspaper. "Disappointment is
a common factor among the candidates and voters because of the
absence of confidence in the council's role."


His Al-Raya paper organised two dozen evenings in a gigantic tent
where candidates were invited to present their platforms and
field questions from potential voters. Most often, people did not
turn up.


Darwish said the highest turnout was around 50 people, who showed
up to listen to three female candidates out of a total of 118
hopefuls.


More than 28,000 eligible voters have registered to vote in the
wealthy state, which has an indigenous population of 174,000 out
of a total of 750,000 inhabitants.


In the 2003 municipal polls, 38 percent of 24,125 registered
voters took part. Some 22,000 voters registered for the first-
ever ballot held in 1999.


"The enthusiasm died down not just among voters but among
candidates themselves," said the Qatar Tribune daily, adding that
loss of trust in Central Municipal Council (CMC) members seemed
to be the main reason for the apathy.


Sunday has been declared an official holiday for all government
workers to free them up to vote.


Many of the election manifestos feature promises to tackle
everyday issues, such as a lack of ATM machines and poorly
maintained roads.


The Peninsula newspaper said a large number of limited-income
families were struggling with debt after borrowing heavily in a
rush to buy Qatari stocks, which have plunged more than 70
percent in value over the past year.


Election candidate Hassan Al-Jefairi told the paper many Qataris
doubt the CMC has the political clout to deal with such problems.


"Our constituents know it very well that even if we win, it will
not be in our powers as CMC members to address these issues, so
they feel disorientated and may not like to exercise their
franchise," he said.


Less than a third of the CMC's recommendations have been
addressed by the authorities concerned, said Fahd bin Abderrahman
al-Thani, a professor of geopolitics and a lawyer.


"This caused embarrassment to the representatives of 29
constituencies in front of voters," he added.


But in a country anticipating its first partial legislative
ballot this year, many Qataris do not hide their hope of having a
more representative assembly.


Asked about the date of the legislative polls, Sheikh Khaled said
that some "laws which complement the constitution are not ready
yet," but stressed that they will take place "in the near
future".


In June 2005, Qatar, a close US ally, adopted a constitution for
the first time since independence from Britain in 1971,
establishing democratic reforms in a country long ruled by an
absolute monarchy.


The constitution clears the way for the separation of the
executive, legislative and judiciary branches.


It provides for legislative power to be vested in a Shura
(consultative) Council made up of 45 members, two-thirds of whom
would be elected and the rest appointed by the emir, Sheikh Hamad
bin Khalifa al-Thani.


Current Shura members are all appointed by the ruler.


The Al-Thani family has been dominant in Qatar -- a peninsula
bordering Saudi Arabia that is abundant in natural gas and oil --
since the mid-1800s, and until now has retained absolute control
over all aspects of government.

