

Nathan Summers, a British sailor held captive in Iran, was
reading from a script when he "apologised" for entering Iranian
waters, his father said in an interview published Saturday.


"That wasn't my son talking," Roy Summers, 50, told The Sun mass-
circulation newspaper.


"Nathan's a man of very few words. He was obviously given a
script. Nathan will have gone along with what they asked, just to
keep the situation calm," the elder Summers said.


Iranian state television aired footage on Friday of Summers
"confessing" he and his 14 colleagues had illegally entered
Iranian waters on March 23, then "apologising" for doing so.


"It is wrong to parade the captives on television. But I cannot
tell you what a relief it is to see my boy alive and well," the
elder Summers added.


Nathan's brother Nick, who is also in the British Navy, had
earlier urged him to "just hang in there" and also said it a
relief to see him.


Nick meanwhile told Sky News television that his brother appeared
to be acting as he would normally and was not distressed.


When asked about the televised statement, he said Nathan would be
"under a lot of stress" because of the situation.


His girlfriend was also finding it difficult but was reassured
after seeing the footage on the news, Nick said.


Speaking on Iranian state television, Summers identified himself
by name and gave the date he was arrested in "Iranian waters."


The claim is rejected by the British government which said the
group were seized in Iraqi waters in the northern Gulf.


"We trespassed without permission," Summers said. "Since we have
been arrested in Iran our treatment has been very friendly, they
took care of us very well."


"I'm grateful that no harm has come to us, I would like to
apologise for entering your waters without any permission," the
sailor said.


Footage of the interview was interspersed with images of the
sailor sitting with two of his captured colleagues, including the
only woman sailor, smiling, and with bowls of fruit and flowers
in front of them.


On Wednesday, the Iranian Arabic-language station had shown
footage of the woman, Faye Turney, also saying that they had
trespassed into Iranian waters.


Britain denounced the latest footage as "outrageous."

