

Romania and Bulgaria have made progress on EU-required judiciary
reforms and the fight against crime and corruption, but the two
newcomers still have some way to go before they fulfill all the
conditions.


The Balkan neighbours are due to report to Brussels this weekend
about how they are getting on with implementing reforms requested
by the European Commission, which put the two countries under the
strictest ever monitoring mechanism when they joined the bloc on
January 1.


The report is to detail measures taken in Bulgaria and Romania to
reform their judiciaries, curb crime and corruption as well as
ensure the smooth distribution of EU farming subsidies and
improve food safety.


Based on their reports and the conclusions of two EU expert
missions to Bucharest and Sofia next month, the Commission will
then decide in June whether to apply further safeguard measures
against one or both of the countries.


In Romania, "progress was made in the four areas that were a
major concern for the Commission" in its last monitoring report
in September, the secretary of state at the justice ministry, Ion
Codescu, told AFP.


The ministry added there had been a "consolidation of
transparency and efficiency in judicial procedures" with
"progress in harmonising the legislature and the training of
judges and prosecutors."


The fight against serious corruption, which often drew the
harshest criticism from the Commission, has seen some progress.
About 200 criminals have already been convicted since September.


Meanwhile, Bulgaria's Interior Minister Rumen Petkov said
Thursday: "the principle of zero tolerance of corruption at all
levels continues to be a priority for the Bulgarian government."


"Significant results have been achieved, especially in curbing
crime... Bulgaria has no reason to feel ashamed," Petkov said,
adding that in the past six months the country's courts had
handed down 297 sentences for corruption and 141 for organised
crime.


Parliament adopted amendments to the country's primary law in
February aimed at improving the functioning of its judiciary,
often criticised as slow and inefficient.


But a high-ranking European diplomat in Sofia recently told AFP
under condition of anonymity that the authorities "never did
anything" to put well-known top criminals behind bars.


"It is a shame for Bulgarians and for all Europeans who suffer
the consequences of such impunity," he added.


Codescu said the main challenge for Romania's judiciary was its
poor record in major corruption cases.


"Prosecutors in the National Anti-corruption Directorate (DNA)
work hard but there are delays in the courts and this is a matter
that will no doubt be brought up by Brussels," he added.


Bucharest is also lagging behind in setting up a National Agency
for Integrity (ANI) to check the origin of the money, property
and other assets of lawmakers, magistrates and high-ranking
politicians, and has faced tough opposition from several parties.


Bulgaria's Petkov said Thursday he hoped the European Commission
would make "a realistic evaluation" of his country's efforts to
implement reforms.


But unnamed government sources told the daily Dnevnik in Sofia
that the low number of sentences and the still stumbling
implementation of newly-adopted legislation were likely to be
pinpointed as two major shortcomings in the Commission's June
report.

