

Prime Minister John Howard on Saturday welcomed a nine-month
sentence imposed on David Hicks, saying the "Australian Taliban"
had admitted helping terrorists and should not be seen as a hero.


But Hicks' father insisted the sentence proved nothing, saying
his son had entered a plea bargain because he was desperate to
end more than five years in custody at the Guantanamo Bay US
naval base in Cuba.


Canberra said moves were already underway to move Hicks to a jail
in Australia, where his fate and the government's handling of his
long-running case has aroused strong reaction from supporters and
critics.


The return of Hicks is expected to take centre stage in the lead
up to a general election at the end of the year when Howard's
conservative government will seek re-election.


Howard lashed out at activists in Australia who have mounted a
high-profile campaign on Hicks' behalf, saying they had tried to
portray the self-confessed associate of terrorists as a hero.


He said they should accept the Adelaide-born Muslim convert had
admitted to helping Al-Qaeda and pleaded guilty because he knew
there was a case against him that went beyond reasonable doubt.


"Whatever may be the rhetorical responses of some and
particularly the government's critics, the facts speak for
themselves," Howard told reporters.


"He pleaded guilty to knowingly assisting a terrorist
organisation -- namely Al Qaeda.


"He's not a hero in my eyes and he ought not to be a hero in the
eyes of any people in the Australian community."


David Hicks pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training camps
and volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime during
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


After a panel of US military officers recommended a maximum
sentence of seven years, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann revealed that a
prior secret plea bargain agreement meant that he could not serve
more than nine months.


Terry Hicks admitted the nine-month term was lighter than some
had expected but said it only underlined the flimsiness of the
case against his son.


"Here's a man that they've been touting almost as Osama Bin
Laden's right-hand man and he gets nine months," he said.


Hicks said his son had to accept the plea deal because he would
have been "crucified and nailed to the wall" by the US military
commission set up to try him had he attempted to fight the
charges.


"Military commissions aren't the way to go -- they're set up to
find people guilty," he said.


Hicks also insisted his son had been abused while in US military
custody, even though David Hicks retracted the claim as part of
the plea bargain.


He questioned why Hicks was prohibited from speaking to the media
for a year as part of his sentence, linking it to the end of year
election.


"It's very strange that will fall during the election," he said.


"John Howard will probably be putting his head up saying 'see,
he's a terrorist."


Greens Senator Bob Brown accused Canberra of pushing for a
sentence that would ensure Hicks was behind bars during the
election, preventing him from becoming a political nuisance
during campaigning for the poll.


"(It's) more about saving Mr Howard's political hide than about
justice for Hicks," he said.


"It is clearly a political fix arranged between Mr Howard and the
Bush administration to shut up Hicks until after the election in
November."


Howard dismissed the suggestion as "absurd".


"We didn't impose the sentence, the sentence was imposed by the
military commission and the plea bargain was worked out between
the military prosecution and Mr Hicks' lawyers," he said.

