

Britain has responded by diplomatic note to Iran over its capture
of 15 British naval personnel in the Gulf last week, Foreign
Secretary Margaret Beckett said Saturday.


"We had a diplomatic note and we have made our response," she
told reporters in Bremen, Germany, without giving details.


An earlier diplomatic note from Iran to British authorities
released Friday condemned the "illegal act" by British naval
staff in the Gulf but did not call for an apology.


"I think everyone regrets that this position has arisen. What we
want is a way out of it, we want it peacefully and we want it as
soon as possible," said Beckett on the sidelines of a meeting
with her EU counterparts in the northern German port town.


"We would like to be told where our personnel are, we would like
to be given access to them, but we want it resolved," Beckett
added.


She said however she feared that the current holiday period in
Iran might delay the diplomatic proceedings.


Beckett said she had received strong support from Britain's EU
partners over the escalating crisis during two days of talks in
Bremen.


The EU foreign ministers released a statement on Friday calling
for the "immediate and unconditional release" of the 14 men and
one woman and said their detention in the Gulf more than one week
ago had breached international law.


"It was a very strong statement, but what I was more pleased with
even than the statement was the mood in the council (of
ministers), because it was extremely supportive, extremely
helpful... and that I really appreciated," Beckett said.


Iran has so far refused to bow to mounting international pressure
to release the naval personnel, who are being held in a secret
location and are occasionally shown on television allegedly
confessing to entering Iranian waters. Britain insists they were
in Iraqi waters when they were seized.


Iran on Saturday again warned Britain against politicising the
issue, saying that could complicate efforts to resolve the
crisis.

