

After plenty of rest and a well deserved massage, Scotland's
Chris Hoy will get back on his bike for the final day of the
world track championships Sunday with two aims on his mind.


Hoy, who stunned the specialists to win Britain's first ever
world kierin crown on Friday, wants to defend his world kilometre
title in a bid to boost his attempt later this year on the world
record.


Arnaud Tournant of France set the first sub-minute time for the
world record when he clocked 58.875secs at La Paz, Bolivia in
October 2001.


With the kilometre now out of the Olympic programme as of Beijing
in 2008, Hoy is hoping to say farewell to the 1000-metre event by
beating that mark.


Another Frenchman, Francois Pervis, is however currently on form
and the 30 -year-old from Edinburgh believes he could prove a
spanner in the works.


"I'll be taking it easy tomorrow (Saturday), an easy ride, a bit
of massage and plenty of rest ahead of Sunday," said Hoy after
dominating the keirin tournament on Friday.


"I'm looking forward to it but it's going to be a battle. Pervis
is really strong just now. He's been focusing on the kilo and
nothing else, so he's going to be really hard to beat.


"So I'm taking nothing for granted."


Hoy already holds the sea level world (1.00.711) record at that
distance.


But it is on the other side of the world, at the ageing Velodromo
Alto Irpavi track, situated 3417 metres above sea level, that he
will aim to beat Tournant's record.


Announcing his bid earlier this year, Hoy admitted he had been
prompted by the kilo's shock rejection from the Olympic
programme.


"It was hard to describe the disappointment or the disbelief when
I found out the kilo wasn't to be part of the next Olympics in
Beijing. But I have had to put that behind me and concentrate on
other things, namely the Team Sprint," said Hoy.


"I have achieved everything else there is to achieve over the
kilometre. Only the world best time is missing from the list.
Setting the time in the rarefied atmosphere means his
(Tournant's) time is nearly two second better than anything I
have achieved at sea level.


"So if I am going to break it, Bolivia is the only place to go,"
added Hoy, whose bid is scheduled for May 12.


Sunday's final day here will also feature the Madison 50 km
final, the men's sprint final, the women's keirin and the 25km
points race.


Theo Bos is the reigning world champion in the sprint, however
the Dutchman could be feeling the pinch after losing his keirin
crown to Hoy.


Another pair of Britons, Craig MacLean, who finished second
behind Bos last year, and Ross Edgar, will be among the
challengers in the men's blue riband event.

