

Nepal's Maoists are facing a make-or-break test in their shift
from jungle and mountain warfare to negotiating their way through
the corridors of power, analysts said Saturday.


The former rebels were given five portfolios in cabinet late
Friday, bringing them into government for the first time as part
of an historic peace agreement signed late last year that
formally ended their bloody civil war.


Analysts warned that the Maoists, whose decade-long insurgency
claimed thousands of lives, needed to end all mafia-like tactics
among their members if the impoverished nation's peace process
was to move forward.


"Nepal is at a crucial crossroads. Any betrayal of their earlier
commitments will be disastrous for the Maoists in particular and
the country in general," said Yubaraj Ghimire, editor of the
Nepali-language weekly Samaya.


Although Maoists have registered their weapons and fighters with
the United Nations as part of the peace deal, they face ongoing
allegations of extortion, beatings and kidnappings -- raising
questions about whether the jungle fighters have really changed
their spots.


The new cabinet to include the Maoists was decided late Friday at
a meeting between Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala and Maoist
chief Prachanda. Other leaders of the seven-party alliance also
attended.


"Now the Maoists have to completely give up their past activities
of continuing violence as they are part of government," said
Rabindra Khanal, who teaches politics at Nepal's Tribhuvan
University.


"If incidents of violence and intimidation continue to be
reported, the people will not trust them," he said.


Just a week ago, business leaders in Kathmandu staged a three-day
strike after a hotelier was abducted and beaten for failing to
hand over cash to Maoists.


Maoist leader Prachanda, whose nom de guerre means "the fierce
one", admitted "mistakes have occurred" and promised to take
action against any renegade former fighters.


Another political science teacher at Nepal's Tribhuvan
University, Krishna Khanal, agreed that the Maoists must display
a genuine will to change.


"The intimidation and extortion... has to be completely halted,
otherwise their involvement in the government will be
meaningless," he said.


Their image problems are compounded as the former rebels are
still on the US list of "terrorist" groups. And Washington's
ambassador to Kathmandu, James Moriarty, has argued it is too
early to allow them into government.


With portfolios such as local development, planning and works,
forestry, and women and children, the Maoists will be forced to
show results in dealing with international donors and tackling
Nepal's wealth of serious economic and social problems, analysts
said.


"This is a very big opportunity for them to prove themselves, (to
show) their decade-long people's war was fought to change the
existing problems of the state," Khanal said.


And in the coming months, the Maoists' stated commitment to the
democratic process will be further put to the test.


The new interim government will be tasked with steering the
country into key elections for a body that will rewrite Nepal's
constitution and address the future of the 238-year-old monarchy.


The Maoists are pushing for a republic, although other parties
want the monarchy and the currrent king, Gyanendra, still viewed
by supporters as a Hindu deity, to retain a ceremonial role.


"The political parties in the interim government should now
create a free and fair environment for constituent assembly
elections and accept the people's verdict to be expressed in the
polls," Krishna Khanal said.

