

England captain Michael Vaughan has conceded he will have to work
hard to regain his form ahead of the remaining World Cup Super
Eights matches.


Vaughan has been opening the innings in the Caribbean, but is
still without a half-century in four matches -- three in the
group and one in the second round.


"My form at the moment is pretty patchy," said the England
skipper, who contributed just six in his team's 48-run victory
over Ireland here on Friday.


"I have to work hard in the next few days and make sure I go into
the next game against Sri Lanka full of confidence."


Ireland may have lost the match but they earned respect with
their good performance, with Vaughan saying they deserved a lot
of credit.


"It was a sort of banana-skin game. We needed two points and
Ireland were playing without fear. They have improved
tremendously in the last few years and they deserve a lot of
credit," said Vaughan.


Ireland put England under pressure in the initial overs when they
reduced their opponents to 23-2 before losing their way in the
last 10 overs, which yielded 94 runs.


"We are happy to get two points, but obviously we need to
improve," said Vaughan, who side scored 266-7 before restricting
Ireland to 218.


"We played some good cricket to get to 260 and then bowled well
in the middle period. For the five-six overs we lost track, but
pulled it back. We always felt we could score 250 or 260."


The England captain was all praise for all-rounder Paul
Collingwood, who was named man of the match for his impressive 90
off just 82 balls.


"They came out and bowled well on a wicket that helped them early
on, but was also good for batting," said Vaughan.


"Collingwood has continued his great form. Andrew Flintoff came
in with runs and the tail wagged to get us to a decent total."


Vaughan hoped the top-order batsmen would also score big in the
remaining games against Sri Lanka, defending champions Australia,
the West Indies, Bangladesh and South Africa.


"We'd love the top order to fire, but it hasn't happened today.
We'll have to work very hard over the next few days to make sure
that it contributes in the next game against Sri Lanka," he said.


Collingwood said he was not surprised by Ireland's early
successes on a pitch which had a little bit of moisture.


"They were very impressive. I wasn't surprised when they came out
and bowled and put us under pressure," he said.


"It takes a little bit of time to get in on these wickets. You
have to get yourself in and then later in the innings you can
make up on the run-rate a little bit."


England were indebted to Collingwood for posting a challenging
total as the all- rounder put on 81 for the fifth wicket with
Flintoff.


"We had to put partnerships together through the middle of the
innings. And then in the back end of the innings, we got a hold
of the bowlers a little bit. It was nice to get runs and
hopefully that will continue."

