

South Korea's foreign minister on Saturday urged Japanese leaders
against making "inaccurate" remarks about their shared history,
saying such remarks were hindering bilateral ties.


Song Min-Soon made the comments after talks with his Japanese
counterpart Taro Aso which had been expected to focus on North
Korea's nuclear programmes and a row over wartime sexual slavery.


"I expressed regret that Japanese leaders have been making
inaccurate remarks about history and that it is important that
their remarks must be based on historical facts," Song told
journalists.


"The issue of history perception is making it difficult for us to
move forward," Song said on South Korea's southern holiday island
of Jeju.


The comments follow anger in the region over Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe's recent remarks that there was no evidence
Tokyo coerced Asian women to serve in brothels for its troops in
World War II.


Seoul has expressed "deep regrets" over Abe's remarks made
earlier this month which ignited a furore in Asian nations that
were invaded by Japan.


Historians say more than 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and
China, were forced to work as sex slaves for Japanese troops
during World War II.


Abe has since tried to cool the row, saying he "sincerely" stood
by the previous Tokyo government's 1993 apology for wartime sex
slavery.


Aso said Saturday high-level talks between the two neighbors,
which follow Song's visit to Tokyo last December, have become
more important than ever.


"I hope we will be able to exchange our honest views about
history and Japan, South Korea issues," he said.


Aso is also expected during talks to reaffirm his cooperation
with Song to follow up on North Korea's commitment to dismantling
its nuclear programmes, Japanese officials said, according to
Japan's Kyodo news agency.


North Korea agreed in principle last month to disable its nuclear
programmes under a deal which also foresees normalisation of
relations with Japan and the United States.


But progress on implementing the February 13 accord has been
stalled over North Korea's frozen bank accounts.


A meeting this month on normalising Japan-North Korea relations
broke down when Tokyo insisted on getting answers about the fate
of kidnapped citizens.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies. It returned five victims and their
families and says the rest are dead.


Japan says the other abductees are alive and that more Japanese
were snatched than Pyongyang has admitted.


It says until there are "positive developments" on abductions, it
will not help fund aid promised under the February agreement
reached during six-nation talks aimed at North Korea's nuclear
disarmament.


Seoul in the past has criticised Tokyo's insistence on raising
abductions during six-party talks which involve Russia, the
United States and China, Japan and the two Koreas.


A dispute over a chain of islets called Dokdo in Korea and
Takeshima in Japan is also expected to be raised. The two sides
want to agree rules for marine surveys around the islands to
avoid future clashes, a diplomat said in the lead up to
Saturday's talks.

