

South Korea and Japan started talks on Saturday focusing on North
Korea's nuclear weapons programmes and a row over wartime sex
slavery, South Korean officials said.


Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon and his Japanese counterpart Taro
Aso met on the South Korean holiday island of Jeju in a follow-up
to Song's visit to Tokyo last December.


Aso is expected to reaffirm his cooperation with Song to follow
up on North Korea's commitment to dismantling its nuclear
programmes, Japanese officials said, according to Japan's Kyodo
news agency.


North Korea agreed in principle last month to disable its nuclear
programmes under a deal which also foresees normalisation of
relations with Japan and the United States.


But progress on implementing the February 13 accord has been
stalled over North Korea's frozen bank accounts.


A meeting this month on normalising Japan-North Korea relations
broke down when Tokyo insisted on getting answers about the fate
of kidnapped citizens.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies. It returned five victims and their
families and says the rest are dead.


Japan says the other abductees are alive and that more Japanese
were snatched than Pyongyang has admitted.


It says until there are "positive developments" on abductions, it
will not help fund aid promised under the February agreement
reached during six-nation talks aimed at North Korea's nuclear
disarmament.


Seoul in the past has criticised Tokyo's insistence on raising
abductions during six-party talks which involve Russia, the
United States and China, japan and the two Koreas.


Saturday's talks also follow a recent uproar in South Korea over
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's remarks that there was no
evidence to prove the Japanese government forced Asian women into
sexual slavery in World War Two.


Seoul has expressed "deep regrets" over Abe's remarks made
earlier this month.


"Minister Song is expected to raise the issue during his meeting
with Aso," a South Korean foreign ministry official was quoted as
saying on condition of anonymity by Yonhap news agency.


A dispute over a chain of islets called Dokdo in Korea and
Takeshima in Japan is also expected to be raised. The two sides
want to agree rules for marine surveys around the islands to
avoid future clashes, a diplomat said in the lead up to the
talks.

