

Aides to US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi worked Saturday to prepare
her groundbreaking visit to Syria that has sparked protests from
the White House, officials said.


Syria's embassy in Washington hailed the proposed trip as
"momentous" and expressed hopes it may change sorely strained
relations with the United States, even as the White House
denounced the visit as "a really bad idea" undermining US policy.


The State Department tried and failed to convince Pelosi, who
will be the highest-ranking US official to visit Syria in years,
to cancel the visit, which is expected to take place next week.


It then asked her to carry a "strong message" to Damascus,
officials said.


"They should end their support for Palestinian rejectionist
groups, take a constructive stance vis-a-vis Lebanon, and
obviously do what they can to help support Iraq," said spokesman
Sean McCormack.


Pelosi -- currently in Israel with a delegation that includes
Democrat Keith Ellison, the first Muslim elected to the US
Congress -- will travel to Syria, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia, said
Ellison spokesman Rick Jauert.


The White House denounced the visit by Pelosi -- a determined
opponent of US President George W. Bush's Iraq war policies --
and warned she may hand Syrian President Bashar al-Assad a
symbolic diplomatic victory.


"Assad probably really wants people to come and have a photo
opportunity and have tea with him and have discussions about
where they're coming from, but we do think that it's a really bad
idea," said spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Pelosi's office did not return telephone calls seeking comment,
but she is due to meet with Syrian leaders on April 3, according
to an informed source.


Last year, a blue-ribbon panel said that improving the situation
in Iraq required holding direct high-level talks with Iran and
Syria -- a step Bush firmly rebuffed.


"This is a country that is a state sponsor of terror, one that is
trying to disrupt the Siniora government in Lebanon, and one that
is allowing foreign fighters to flow into Iraq from its borders,"
Perino told reporters.


A spokesman for Syria's embassy here, Ahmed Salkini, told AFP
that "this is definitely a momentous visit," but that "it all
depends at the end on how it is going to affect the Bush
administration's decision-making."


Salkini noted that three lawmakers from Bush's Republican party
were currently in Syria and added "anyone that wants to come and
engage with Syria is more than welcome."


McCormack argued against such trips, saying the Syrians "point to
these visits as proof that there's no problem with their behavior
and that they are not in fact isolated."


Pelosi's trip comes two weeks after Ellen Sauerbrey, the US
assistant secretary of state for refugees and migration, returned
from the highest-level US diplomatic visit to Syria in two years.


Washington withdrew its ambassador in Damascus after Syrian
authorities were implicated in the February 2005 assassination of
former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri in Beirut.


"It's not like visiting the 'axis of evil,'" one US official
quipped, referring to Bush's description of Iran, North Korea,
and Saddam Hussein's Iraq. "But it is like touring the 'axis of
the really bad.'"


Several top Democratic lawmakers were travelling with Pelosi and
Ellison, including House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Tom
Lantos and House Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry
Waxman.


They were expected to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert as well as Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, said
Jauert, who told AFP "they will also travel to Syria, Lebanon,
and Saudi Arabia."


He declined to provide a more detailed itinerary because of
security concerns.


Separately, Pelosi's office said in a statement that the speaker,
who is just behind Vice President Dick Cheney in the line of
succession to the US presidency, would address Israel's Knesset
on April 1.


US Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage visited Syria in
early January 2005. The last US president to visit Syria was Bill
Clinton, in late October 1994.

