

A team of British detectives are expected to arrive in Jamaica
next week to assist in the investigation into the murder of
Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer, police said Friday.


Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark Shields confirmed to AFP
that officers from Scotland Yard's Special Crime Directorate had
been sought to "review" the progress of the Woolmer probe.


Woolmer's body was found nearly two weeks ago at the Pegasus
Hotel in Kingston but so far police investigating the mysterious
killing have failed to announce any significant breakthroughs.


Shields was quoted in the online edition of Britain's Daily
Telegraph on Friday as saying that up to six Scotland Yard
officers would study all "major lines of inquiry" and conduct "a
forensic review".


"They will be looking to see if there is anything else we can
do," Shields was quoted as saying.


"You know when you're involved in any piece of work and you are
right up against it, sometimes you can miss the most blindingly
obvious."


Shields told AFP the arrival of the detectives was subject to
official agreement and would not confirm the number of officers
involved.


Woolmer's murder, which came one day after Pakistan was
humiliatingly knocked out of the World Cup by Ireland, has rocked
cricket and raised the spectre of endemic corruption in the
sport.


Speculation has raged that Woolmer's death is linked to shady
illegal betting syndicates, although police have so far said
there is no evidence that bookmakers were responsible.


Shields said earlier this week police were "nowhere near" being
able to identify possible suspects, and warned the murder may
take months to solve.


He said the immediate priority was to try and track down everyone
visiting or staying at the Pegasus Hotel in the 72 hours before
the murder, thought to be around 1,000 people. DNA and
fingerprint samples would be sought in order to eliminate as many
people as possible.


The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) meanwhile on Thursday urged
Jamaican authorities to speed up the murder investigation "so
that the mystery surrounding the unexplained death of Woolmer is
resolved as soon as possible".


Unidentified PCB officials earlier this week claimed that
Woolmer's death was due to natural causes, saying the post mortem
was mishandled.


Shields has said he will continue to treat the case as murder
until he is presented with evidence to the contrary.


"It's very clear from the pathologists report that we are dealing
with a murder investigation," he said. "The view is, very
categorically, that this is a murder investigation. But of course
we are keeping an open mind."

