

The United States announced in an unprecedented decision Friday
to impose penalty tariffs on China to offset government
subsidies, as Washington grapples with its massive trade deficit
with the world's most populous nation.


Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told a news conference that a
"preliminary decision" had been made "to apply the US anti-
subsidy law to imports from China."


This is the first time countervailing duties will be imposed on
imports from so called non-market economies such as China.


"China's economy has developed to the point that we can add
another trade remedy tool, such as the countervailing duty law,"
Gutierrez said. "The China of today is not the China of years
ago."


Beijing expressed strong dissatisfaction with the US decision,
saying it "goes against the consensus reached by the leaders of
both countries to resolve differences through dialogue," state
media reported.


"China strongly requires the US side to reconsider the decision
and make prompt changes," Chinese commerce ministry spokesman
Wang Xinpei said, as quoted by the official Xinhua news agency.


The US move dampened sentiment on Wall Street as shares see-sawed
to a mixed finish Friday with a stronger-than-expected economic
data offset by worries that the trade sanctions slapped on China
might spark growing protectionism.


Friday's decision was based on a case brought by US firm NewPage
Corp., which contended that Chinese high-gloss paper imports were
fuelled by subsidies such as tax breaks, debt forgiveness, and
low-cost loans that posed unfair competition to US-made paper.


The Commerce Department determined that Chinese producers and
exporters of coated free sheet paper received "countervailable
subsidies" of up to 20.35 percent.


Subsidies are financial assistance from foreign governments that
benefit production, manufacture, or export of goods.


By acting on NewPage's petition filed last October, the United
States was "leveling the playing field for American
manufacturers, workers and farmers," Gutierrez said.


President George W. Bush has been under increasing pressure from
the Democratic- controlled Congress to take bold steps to address
the soaring US trade deficit with China, that ballooned to more
than 200 billion dollars last year.


Some lawmakers, who charge that China's government subsidies are
fueling its export machine, have called for legislation to
reaffirm the US action, which they said should cover all non-
market economies.


"I still want Congress to get it on the books, in law, that
Commerce has the authority to impose countervailing duties on all
non-market economies, not just China," said Democratic Senator
Max Baucus, who heads the powerful Senate finance committee.


"We have to strengthen and enforce our trade laws for the sake of
US workers," he said.


The US National Association of Manufacturers said the Commerce
Department's move was "an important step" to balance trade with
China.


"We can compete against Chinese wages but competing against the
deep pockets of the Chinese government is entirely different. US
companies should not have to battle with that," said the
association's president John Engler.


In February, the United States hauled China to the World Trade
Organization over its "illegal" industrial subsidies in steel,
paper, information technology and other sectors.


It was the third time that the United States took China to the
Geneva-based arbiter of global trade since Beijing joined the WTO
in 2001.


Officials said the US government next could sue China at the WTO
over rampant piracy of US goods, while exerting continued
pressure for reform to its tightly managed exchange rate.


Gutierrez stressed that the decision Friday against China did not
signal any retreat from economic engagement with the rising Asian
power.


"Rather it speaks to the growing strength of our commercial
relationship and the fact that as economic partners, we must be
above all fair," he said. "We will continue to apply this
principle to all our trading partners."


Countervailing duty petitions have been filed against coated free
sheet paper from Indonesia and South Korea as well and may result
in duties against those countries, the department said.

