

Nepal's parliament was set Saturday to ratify a landmark
agreement which will see former Maoist rebels join a new interim
government, cementing a peace deal ending a decade of bloody
civil war.


Under the agreement reached Friday, the main political parties
agreed to give the former rebels five portfolios in a cabinet
tasked with steering the Himalayan nation into new elections this
year.


The Maoists welcomed the agreement which will see them in
government for the first time.


"This is a major achievement for our party which we reached
because of the 10 -year-long 'people's war'," Baburam Bhattarai,
their second in command, told AFP.


"This is our first step in achieving the goal of establishing a
new Nepal," said Bhattarai, whose party wants the country to
ditch embattled King Gyanendra and become a republic.


The accord on sharing cabinet posts ends several months of
wrangling between the country's seven main parties and the
Maoists, who agreed to end their bloody decade-long insurgency
when they signed a peace accord last year.


At least 13,000 people died in the civil war.


Under the next step laid out in the peace plan, the interim
government will organise elections for a constituent assembly in
June to decide the future of the landlocked country.


The assembly will rewrite the constitution and decide on the fate
of King Gyanendra -- and whether the impoverished country should
keep its 238-year-old monarchy or become a republic, which is
what the Maoists are lobbying for.


"Our final goal is to bring an end to the feudal system through
the constituent assembly election," Bhattarai said.


King Gyanendra, seen by supporters as a Hindu deity, was forced
to relinquish direct rule last year after months of mass protests
organised by an alliance of the political parties and the
Maoists.


He has since been stripped of most of his powers, and the deal on
the new cabinet places him under even more pressure.


The cabinet will be formally approved by Nepal's recently
overhauled parliament -- which also now includes Maoist members
-- on Saturday, senior Congress Party official Ram Chandra Poudel
told reporters.


Veteran Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala, the leader of the
Nepali Congress Party and respected architect of the peace
process, retains his position as leader of the government.


Koirala's party will also hold the key defence, home and finance
ministries, while the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist
Leninist) -- Nepal's second largest party -- will hold the
foreign ministry.


The Maoists, who are still classed by the United States as a
"terrorist" organisation, will head the ministries of
information, local development, planning and works, forestry, and
women and children.


Although the Maoists have registered their weapons and fighters
with the United Nations in line with the peace accord, the
process has been jolted by ethnic violence in the south of the
country and accusations of continued Maoist mafia- like practices
such as kidnappings, beatings and extortion.

