

The body of Zviad Gamsakhurdia, Georgia's first post-Soviet
president, will be buried Sunday in his native land, now united
in mourning despite his controversial record.


More than a decade after it disappeared, Gamsakhurdia's body was
returned to the Georgian capital Tbilisi on Wednesday from
Chechnya, where it was discovered earlier this month.


Gamsakhurdia, a noted author and scholar, will be buried in a
state funeral at the pantheon of celebrated Georgian writers on
Mtatsminda mountain on the edge of Tbilisi.


Mourners were already gathering Friday outside Kolkhuri Tower,
his family's ancestral home in Tbilisi.


"I've been here all day and yesterday as well. That's as it
should be. Zviad was our first president and through him Georgia
won its independence," said Tbilisi resident Rusudan Chokheli,
39.


Gamsakhurdia's coffin lay in the tower courtyard, surrounded by
an honour guard of Georgian soldiers and mourners in traditional
Georgian dress. Police installed steel fences outside the tower
to control the crowd and reported that busloads of Gamsakhurdia
supporters were arriving from western Georgia, his traditional
power base.


"Georgia is united in grief," said Irakli Mindeli, the leader of
the opposition Socialist Party. "Gamsakhurdia's friends, his
enemies, representatives of all political parties -- everyone is
paying their respects. It is a very Georgian thing to do, to
stand together in times of mourning."


A prominent Soviet-era dissident, Gamsakhurdia led Georgia to
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 and was elected
president with more than 80 percent of the vote. But his brief
rule was marked by chaos and bloodshed after opponents launched
an armed uprising in protest over his autocratic decisions.


He fled Georgia amid street fighting in Tbilisi in 1992, but
returned a year later to lead an armed struggle against the new
government of former Soviet foreign minister Eduard Shevardnadze.
Gamsakhurdia died in western Georgia on New Year's Eve 1993 from
a bullet wound to the head, but his supporters and opponents
still argue over whether the wound was self-inflicted.


His body was taken to the southern Russian region of Chechnya,
where his widow was living. Russia's war against separatist
rebels in Chechnya broke out shortly after his burial and the
location of the gravesite was lost. It was discovered earlier
this month and the body exhumed.


Authorities in Russia performed an autopsy on Gamsakhurdia's body
following the exhumation, but the mystery of how he died remains
unresolved. The results of the autopsy have not been made public
and the family refused a request that a separate autopsy be
performed by Georgian authorities.


Eka Kherkheulidze, the head of the government commission on
Gamsakhurdia's reburial, said it was unfortunate the family had
refused to allow another examination of the body.


"Most likely, the (Russian) autopsy also failed to answer the
main question -- was it a suicide or not," she said. "But this is
an important issue. Georgia should know how Zviad Gamsakhurdia
died."


Gamsakhurdia's supporters strongly opposed Shevardnadze's
government and were allegedly behind a 1998 attack on the former
president's motorcade that killed two people. But many threw
their support behind current President Mikheil Saakashvili during
the 2003 "Rose Revolution" that overthrew Shevardnadze and set
the country of five million on a pro-Western course.


Presidential spokesman Vano Noneishvili said he did not know if
Saakashvili would be participating in Sunday's ceremonies.

