

Pakistani officials have said an "onslaught" by local tribesmen
against foreign Al-Qaeda militants in which 56 people died could
curb cross-border attacks by the rebels in Afghanistan.


The clashes in the lawless South Waziristan region come as
President Pervez Musharraf, a key US ally, faces international
pressure to get tough on extremists who have regrouped in
Pakistan's tribal-run regions since 2001.


Uzbeks, Chechens and some Arab militants have traded rocket and
mortar fire for two days with pro-government tribal forces led by
a former Taliban commander after a tense ceasefire broke down
Thursday, officials said.


The Pakistani government "is not intervening," a top security
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"We hope this onslaught against foreign militants will help
reduce cross-border activity. The foreigners were involved in
this cross-border activity," the official said.


"This is a decisive battle for us."


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told AFP late Friday that 56
people were killed on Thursday and Friday, 45 of them foreigners,
after fighting "intensified after peace talks failed."


"Tribes are insisting on their demand that these people either
surrender or quit the area," Sherpao said.


The Al-Qaeda militants numbering around 500 were effectively
under siege as all roads to the areas where they are dug in are
controlled by tribal commander Mullah Nazir, who is said to have
around 1,500 men, residents said.


Last week the government said clashes in South Waziristan left
160 people dead, again mostly Chechens and Uzbeks. Local sources
put the toll lower but the figures could not be independently
verified.


Officials said the tribesmen's efforts to drive out the rebels
vindicated Islamabad's policy of signing peace deals in the
tribal belt instead of sending in government troops as it has in
the past, with little success.


Pakistan inked pacts with pro-Taliban tribal militants in South
Waziristan in 2005 and neighbouring North Waziristan last year,
under which it withdrew many soldiers while the tribes agreed to
curb attacks in Afghanistan.


"The tribesmen are pro-Pakistan. They want to keep their laws and
customs but they do not want to harm Pakistan. But the foreigners
are pro-jihad (holy war)," an intelligence official said.


The Arabs, Uzbeks and other militants fled Afghanistan after the
fall of the hardline Taliban regime more than five years ago and
took shelter with the devoutly Islamic tribesmen who sympathised
with their cause.


Their leader in South Waziristan is Tahir Yuldashev, an Uzbek
Islamist who has been sentenced to death in his homeland and who
was once a close confidant of Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden.


But relations have soured partly due to the foreigners' increased
involvement in attacks on NATO and US troops in Afghanistan and
on Afghan security forces and civilians.


Officials said Algerian and Moroccan militants were believed to
be among those fighting the tribal militia. The government has
said it will help to repatriate any militants who surrender to
the tribesmen.


But there are already fears of "blowback" with officials saying
that a suicide attack which killed a soldier in eastern Pakistan
on Thursday was linked to the foreign militants.


Meanwhile troops were enforcing a curfew Saturday for a fourth
day in Tank, a town near South Waziristan where five people died
in clashes between security forces and Taliban militants who were
trying to recruit local schoolboys.


Analysts say the tide of recent Islamist violence shows the
increasing "Talibanisation" of Pakistan.

