

US and South Korean negotiators Saturday extended the deadline in
their free trade talks by 48 hours in a last-ditch attempt to
secure a deal after 10 months of tough bargaining.


The new deadline will expire at 1:00 am Monday (1600 GMT Sunday,
noon Sunday Washington time), they told a press briefing after a
marathon 22-hour negotiating session.


"We have decided to have another 48 hours of talks by extending
the original 1:00 am Saturday deadline," said top South Korean
negotiator Kim Jong-Hoon. "So talks will continue until 1:00 am,
Monday April 2."


The US Trade Representative's office said the new deadline would
still allow any agreement to be reviewed by Congress while
President George W. Bush still has his Trade Promotion Authority
to "fast-track" deals.


"Negotiations continue between the US and the Republic of Korea
on a number of outstanding issues," the office said in a
statement released in Seoul.


"The negotiations must conclude by 12:00 pm (Washington time) on
Sunday April 1 so that the administration can decide whether to
notify Congress of its intent to sign by Sunday, April 1, the
deadline for Congressional notification under Trade Promotion
Authority."


Earlier, the White House warned that negotiators were not making
headway.


"The talks aren't going well, and unless the negotiations show
some signs  of significant progress in the next few hours this
agreement will most likely not come together," White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


The free trade agreement, if approved, would be the biggest for
the United States since the North American Free Trade Agreement
was concluded in 1993.


Trade between the world's largest and 11th largest economies
totalled 74 billion dollars in 2006 and studies show this could
rise by about 20 percent if a free trade deal is agreed.


Bush and President Roh Moo-Hyun, in a telephone conversation
Thursday, had thrown their weight behind an agreement -- urging
negotiators to conclude it on time with "maximum flexibility."


But differences on agriculture and the auto trade have dogged
negotiations in recent days, although it was not clear which
sectors were still in dispute.


"So far, South Korea and the US have made sincere efforts to
strike a free trade deal," Kim said. "The decision to extend
talks was based on a consensus that further talks are necessary
to resolve remaining outstanding issues."


Under Bush's "fast track" authority, Congress cannot amend a deal
but merely approve or reject it. Officials fear any deal could
drag on for years without such powers.


US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other senior Democrats made
clear their dissatisfaction in a letter Wednesday to US Trade
Representative Susan Schwab.


Singling out the auto market, they described the proposed deal as
a "one-way street" in Seoul's favour.


Seoul sold some 800,000 vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in
the United States last year, while US firms exported only some
4,000 vehicles the other way.


The letter said the proposed deal "is completely inadequate in
the face of Korea's longstanding iron curtain to American
manufactured products."


Agriculture had also been a key obstacle. South Korea insisted
rice be excluded from any deal and resisted pressure for quick
tariff cuts on other sensitive food items.


Washington wanted Seoul to open its markets to US beef, both by
cutting tariffs and scrapping other barriers.


South Korea rose from post-war poverty to prosperity by
protecting key industries, but now faces growing competition from
China.


Roh and his ministers believe the country's industries and
service sector will be reinvigorated by the competition which a
free trade deal would bring.


The South Korean president faces pressure from heavily subsidised
farmers and other workers who fear for their jobs, as well as
activists. Tens of thousands have taken to the streets in
occasionally violent protests since the negotiations began.


Police said about 10,000 riot police were deployed around the
capital Friday in a massive show of force.


At the presidential Blue House about 500 people displaying a huge
banner reading "No FTA" scuffled with police.

