

Bangladesh sought a new start Tuesday as its two main political
leaders -- blamed for the nation's descent into chaos and
corruption -- face exile abroad, analysts said.


Dubbed the "battling begums," outgoing prime minister Khaleda Zia
and Sheikh Hasina Wajed come from rival political dynasties that
have dominated the political landscape since Bangladesh won
independence in 1971.


But now Zia is expected to follow Sheikh Hasina into exile.
Sources close to the ex-premier accused the new military-backed
government of using her younger son Arafat Rahman to "blackmail"
her into leaving.


"This is the end of the begums," said Ataur Rahman, a political
science professor at Dhaka University, referring to the honorific
title by which the women are known.


"They have to leave the country because their politics have
failed and the government has acted on the aspiration of the
people," he said.


"They are being forced out of the country because had they stayed
at home they would have continued to influence political forces
within the country and that would have been a big impediment to
the new government's aspirations to clean up politics and
facilitate the emergence of a new political order in Bangladesh,"
he added.


Media reports Tuesday said Zia was under "tremendous pressure"
from the interim government and had agreed to leave, initially
for Saudi Arabia, on condition that her sons be allowed to join
her.


Her influential elder son, Tareque, is currently in custody on
extortion charges but his trial was suspended for six months. Her
other son, Arafat, was arrested over the weekend but released
late Monday.


Last week, murder and extortion charges were filed against Sheikh
Hasina while she was on holiday in the US, throwing huge
obstacles in the way of her return.


Although she vowed to defend herself in person, a return trip
scheduled for Saturday was cancelled.


The fate of the two women leaders is crucial to the political
stability of the impoverished country where many believe that
democracy can only be rebuilt without them.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina, both former premiers who are said to
loathe each other, have maintained a stranglehold on power since
democracy was reintroduced in 1991.


Since then, their mutual antipathy has repeatedly played out on
the streets of Bangladesh in bloody showdowns between their
parties -- Sheikh Hasina's Awami League and Khaleda Zia's
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP).


The result was a dysfunctional democracy and a bitterly polarised
nation, with business leaders also counting the costs of repeated
strikes and blockades.


Many blame their confrontational approach for January's political
crisis that ended in the cancellation of elections scheduled for
later that month and the imposition of emergency rule under a
military-backed government.


"The reason the begums were determined to stay in the country was
that they do not want to recognise their failures," said Asif
Nazrul, a professor of Law at Dhaka University.


"The two leaders are being forced out in order to effectuate
reforms. It may not be the end of their legacies in Bangladesh.
But if they come back after some years, they may not be able to
reassert their authority the way they used to do in the past," he
added.


Zia is the widow of assassinated president Ziaur Rahman, while
Sheikh Hasina is the daughter of Bangladesh's independence leader
and first president Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who was also murdered.


"I think their (Zia and Sheikh Hasina's) exit from Bangladesh's
political scene will usher in a new era of transparent and
dynasty-free politics in the country," added Ataur Rahman.


The new government has pledged to clean up Bangladesh politics
before holding rescheduled polls before the end of 2008. At least
50 prominent figures have been arrested on corruption charges.


Meanwhile, the interim government continues to enjoy broad
support from voters, who, tired of bickering and corrupt
politicians, appear to be willing to give their new leaders time
to carry out reforms.

