

For the first time in its history, the UN Security Council on
Tuesday debates climate change, a sign that the burning issue is
increasingly being seen as a major threat to world security.


The theme of the open debate, held at the initiative of Britain
-- the council chair this month -- is "Energy, security and
climate."


"We're looking to raise awareness of something which is gradually
rising up on the agenda," a British official, speaking on
condition of anonymity, said last week.


He said the British view was that "on economic grounds the cost
of inaction outweighs the cost of action."


"But in looking at what the costs of inaction are, we feel that
there is a security component and we'd like to raise awareness of
that and whatever happens on Tuesday we feel that we've already
succeeded," the diplomat added.


Organizing the debate, which is to be chaired by British Foreign
Secretary Margaret Beckett was no easy feat, the British official
said, noting that several key council members such as the United
States, Russia and China felt that the council was not the
appropriate forum to discuss global warming.


The primary responsibility of the powerful body, as defined by
the UN charter, is preserving international peace and security.
Many UN members argue that tackling issues not directly to linked
to peace, such as human rights, is not its business.


But a report released Monday by a blue-ribbon panel of retired US
admirals and generals warned that global climate change presented
a serious national security threat that could affect Americans at
home, impact US military operations and heighten global tensions.


The study, titled "National Security and the Threat of Climate
Change," looks at ways projected climate change is a "threat
multiplier" in already fragile regions of the world, exacerbating
conditions that lead to failed states, "the breeding grounds for
extremism and terrorism."


"Climate change is a national security issue," retired General
Gordon  Sullivan, a former US army chief of staff, said when
releasing the report at a press conference in Washington.


"We found that climate instability will lead to instability in
geopolitics and impact American military operations around the
world," he added.


"Climate change is an issue which is assuming growing importance
and therefore we are beginning to ponder its different aspects,
the different types of ramification of the phenomenon," said a
Western diplomat to explain the British initiative.

