

South Korea's anti-trust watchdog on Tuesday rejected growing
calls to ease regulations on big business groups, saying the
policy helps strengthen the economy.


The groups, known as chaebol, say Seoul's longstanding anti-trust
policies discriminate against them in favour of foreign
competitors at a time when the economy is slowing down, and force
domestic companies into excessive competition with each other.


They also say South Korea should nurture its "national champions"
to compete with leading global companies.


Kim Byung-Bae, vice chairman of the government's Fair Trade
Commission (FTC), dismissed the complaints.


"It goes against the principle of the market deciding on the
winner and it also runs against a myriad of actual examples," he
said.


He said Japanese automakers have grown to become global players
through fierce competition in their domestic market while the
South Korean market is monopolized by the Hyundai-Kia Automotive
Group.


Selling some 850,000 units last year, the group accounted for
more than 73 percent of the country's auto market.


Kim said the group's monopolistic position has resulted in
reduced consumer benefits while an increasing number of buyers
turn to foreign brands.


Government regulations ban chaebol and their subsidaries from
investing more than a quarter of their net asset value in other
firms and from cross-investing in each other.


"The expansion through investment beyond the limit and cross-
investment would hamper the growth of small and mid-sized firms
and independent firms," Kim said.


Reckless expansion by the family-oriented conglomerates was
partly to blame for South Korea's troubles during the 1997-1998
Asian financial crisis.


The founding families maintain a grip over their business empires
despite their relatively small direct holdings through
complicated chains of investment involving subsidiaries and
associates.


"Chaebol are something unique in South Korea and we cannot talk
about them being discriminated against in favour of foreigners,"
the FTC vice chairman told a meeting organised by the Korean
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.


"Policies aimed at encouraging fair trade help enhance the
competiveness of the economy and bolster momentum for economic
growth," he said.

