

Parents and students at the scene of the worst school shooting in
US history on Monday criticized the university for waiting too
long to alert people a killer may be on the loose.


"I think they did the best they could sending out emails but
maybe if it had been sooner lives could have been saved," said
Savannah McReynolds, 18, a biology student at Virginia Tech
University, where 32 people were killed and 15 injured in two
separate shootings before the gunman took his own life.


Two of the victims were killed in a dormitory and 30 others were
killed more than two hours later while attending classes.


Police said they were alerted to the first shooting at 7:15 a.m.
and students were told of the incident by email at 9:26 a.m.


The message said that a shooting had taken place but did not
specify whether students should remain on campus or leave. The
second shooting took place at about 9:40 a.m. and at 9:55 a.m.
the police began notifying students and faculty of that incident.


Lorraine Watkins, whose daughter Lauren is a student at the
university, expressed anger that it was only after the second
shooting rampage that the institution was shut down and students
and faculty warned that a gunman was on the loose.


"If someone has come into a campus and murdered two students in a
dorm, there should be a mass filing informing students and staff
of what is going on immediately," said Watkins, who appeared on
the brink of tears.


She and her husband Jeff, who drove four and a half hours to see
their daughter, said had a warning been issued earlier, lives
could have been saved.


John Reaves, 22, a civil and environmental science student, said
he first heard about the shootings at 10:20 a.m. from a friend
who called him as he was heading to class at the building where
the second shootings took place.


"There was a long lapse between the first incident and the second
where 31 people, including the gunman, died and I can't really
understand," he said.


Erin Mabry, 25, a graduate student, said school officials were
"very neglectful" in their response.


"There was a two-hour gap between the two incidents," she said.
"There is no excuse for a two-hour time gap with no information."


School officials and police repeatedly questioned about their
response to the shootings said that they believed the first
incident, in which a man and woman were killed, was isolated and
linked to a domestic dispute.


"We did everything we could based on what we knew at that time,"
Charles Steger, the president of the university, told reporters.


Wendell Flinchum, the chief of police at Virginia Tech, said that
authorities believed the gunman had left the campus after the
first incident and it was not clear whether the same person was
responsible for both shootings.


"We acted on the best info we had at the time," he said. "I am
sure after all this is over we'll all sit down and talk about
this incident and determine future response."

