

American military casualties in Iraq for the month so far climbed
to 50 on Tuesday, US command said, reporting another soldier
killed by a type of bomb linked by the military to Iranian-backed
groups.


An attack by an "explosively-formed projectile" or EFP was
carried out on Monday in southern Baghdad on the same day as
radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's anti-American faction
pulled out of the Iraqi government.


Previously, US commanders have accused Tehran of supplying
armour-piercing EFPs to Shiite militants, and Sadr himself is
said to be in hiding in Iran in order to avoid a crackdown on his
Mahdi Army militia.


"An explosively formed projectile targeting an MND-B patrol
killed one soldier and wounded two others in a southern section
of Baghdad," an overnight statement from the US military said.


"The unit was conducting a combat security patrol at the time of
the attack. An Iraqi interpreter was also wounded in the attack,"
it added.


Last week, US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell
repeated a long- standing claim that effective EFP attacks are
linked to Iran's alleged training of, and supply to, illegal
Iraqi militias.


On Monday, the military had announced the deaths of seven
personnel, bringing April's average daily toll to three and total
losses since the March 2003 invasion to 3,304, according to an
AFP tally of Pentagon reports.


Around 150,000 American troops are deployed in Iraq in support of
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government, which is battling an
Al Qaeda-led Sunni insurgency in a country blighted by a Sunni-
Shiite civil war.


For two months a joint US and Iraqi force has been carrying out a
huge security operation in the capital in a bid to hunt down
sectarian death squads and give Maliki the time and space to
reconcile the warring factions.


Nevertheless, Baghdad has still been the scene of a series of
bomb attacks by suspected Sunni insurgents on Shiite civilian
communities.


Meanwhile, the Iraqi political scene has been rocked by the
defection of Sadr's six ministers from Maliki's beleaguered
coalition government.


The prime minister welcomed the group's withdrawal as an
opportunity to replace sectarian appointees committed to Sadr's
hardline Shiite faction with "efficient ministers" capable of
reviving public services.


But the decision also puts a powerful, popular movement -- and
Sadr's feared Mahdi Army militia -- in the opposition camp, where
it can be expected to step up its demands for a withdrawal of US
forces.


Sadr, who has not been seen in public since October, on Monday
ordered his six ministers in Maliki's cabinet to resign following
the premier's failure to offer a timetable for the departure of
the American forces.


Sadr's bloc is the largest single political group in Maliki's
fragmenting coalition, but the prime minister will be able to
cling to power if he keeps the support of smaller Shiite and
Kurdish groups.


Maliki on Monday refused to outline a timeline for a US
withdrawal, saying such a decision would depend "on the readiness
of our armed forces to take charge of security in all provinces."


On Monday, US President George W. Bush also rejected the idea of
naming an end date, despite pressure from Democrat lawmakers
pushing for withdrawal as a condition for authorising new
spending.


"As we saw with last week's brutal attack on the Iraqi
parliament, our troops face depraved and determined enemies,
enemies that could just as easily come here to kill us," Bush
said on Monday.


"And therefore we must give our men and women in uniform the best
equipment, the best training and the unqualified support of our
nation."


The US military said a chemical attack was averted on Monday at a
police station north of Baghdad when a driver of a dump truck
loaded with explosives and nitric acid was arrested after his
vehicle overturned accidently.


Insurgents have exploded several dirty bombs in the past few
months.

