

Ukraine's highest court on Tuesday stepped into a constitutional
crisis pitting the president against his prime minister in a
power struggle over new elections.


The constitutional court was deliberating on President Viktor
Yushchenko's decision two weeks ago to dissolve parliament, which
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych claims is illegal.


Supporters of Ukraine's fiercely competing political parties
demonstrated and waved flags outside the courthouse as 18 purple-
robed judges opened deliberations in the presence of the media.


Western-leaning Yushchenko says parliament should be disbanded
and new elections held because Yanukovych's Russian-backed allies
who dominate the legislature are undermining his rule.


Yanukovych has refused to comply, sparking a major political
stand-off and turning intense pressure on the constitutional
court to intervene.


It was not clear when the court would deliver a ruling, but a
decision was expected by early May.


The hearings were also being closely watched by outside powers,
anxious about the political direction of this country of 47
million people located between the European Union and NATO to the
west and Russia to the east.


Days of mass demonstrations by supporters of the opposing camps
in Kiev followed Yushchenko's order to dissolve parliament,
echoing protests in 2004 known as the Orange Revolution.


Those protests swept Yushchenko to power, overturning an earlier
presidential election that had been found by Western election
observers to be rigged in Yanukovych's favour.


Since the Orange Revolution the president's popularity ratings
have plummeted and Yanukovych has made a come-back as prime
minister, following parliamentary elections last year.


On Monday Yanukovych threatened impeachment proceedings against
Yushchenko if the court rules that the dissolution of parliament
was illegal.


Yushchenko accuses the pro-Russian majority in parliament of
repeatedly obstructing his rule. Former premier and key
Yushchenko ally Yuliya Tymoshenko says huge bribes have also been
offered to the president's supporters in an attempt to weaken
further his parliamentary position.


Last week, five of the court's 18 judges complained that they had
come under "gross pressure" from the prime minister's
parliamentary majority and demanded protection by bodyguards.


Analysts and the media have said that the only real way out of
the crisis will not be by a court ruling but rather by the two
sides coming to a political compromise.


Yushchenko has suggested postponing the elections necessitated by
parliament's dissolution.


On Tuesday both of the main protagonists in the crisis were
planning foreign trips.


Yanukovych was to meet members of the Parliamentary Assembly of
the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, while Yushchenko was to meet
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso in Brussels
before flying on to Britain.


The constitutional court consists of six judges chosen by the
president, six chosen by parliament and six by the legal
community.


Those who complained of gross pressure last week included three
Yushchenko appointees, one judge appointed by parliament and one
from the legal community.

