

The dollar eased against the yen in Asian trade Tuesday as market
players took a brief break in selling the Japanese currency
following its recent sharp decline, dealers said.


They said the euro hovered close to two-year highs against the
dollar as the market looked ahead to upcoming US economic
indicators.


The dollar fell to 119.59 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 119.72
yen in New York late Tuesday.


The euro slipped to 1.3532 dollars from 1.3535 and to 161.82 yen
after 162.04.


"Selling pressure on the yen eased temporarily," said Masaki
Fukui, senior market economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank's forex
division.


"But the rise in the yen does not mean a change in trend. The yen
is largely expected to slide further. The 120 yen level is
already in sight among most players," he said.


Dealers said the yen's rise was a technical correction after
Monday's losses which came after a weekend statement from the
Group of Seven finance chiefs avoided any explicit reference to
the weak Japanese currency.


They said that there were also signs of a revival in the so-
called yen carry trade that has been keeping the currency weak as
traders borrow at low Japanese interest rates to invest in
higher-yielding currencies.


The euro hit two-year highs against the dollar and an all-time
best against the yen Monday, underpinned by upbeat growth
prospects for the eurozone and a likely interest rate rise in the
13-nation bloc in June, dealers said.


Some market participants remained sidelined, however, waiting for
the release of key US economic indicators such as the March
consumer price index and housing starts due out later Tuesday,
dealers said.


Data released on Monday by the US Commerce Department showed US
retail sales hitting a three-month high in March, rising by 0.7
percent, better than the 0.4 percent gain economists had been
expecting.


However, momentum for the dollar was limited by the Empire survey
on manufacturing activity in the New York region which showed
only a small rise after a sharp drop the previous month, dealers
said.

