

Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu, who forty years ago tried to found an
independent Biafra with disastrous consequences, now wants to try
his hand at running all of Nigeria.


Ojukwu, who started one of the world's bloodiest conflicts of the
20th century, is engaged in his last battle: ending what he calls
"the very subtle dictatorship" of President Olusegun Obasanjo.


The former warlord, now aged 73, is running for president under
the banner of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) party.


Ojukwu, whose eyes still sparkle even if his sight has faded,
tried to secede in May 1967 when he was regional military
governor. The young colonel accused the federal government,
dominated by Muslim northerners, of marginalizing Nigeria's
mainly Christian Igbos in the south.


The Igbos were particularly bitter at that time following the
assassination in July 1966 of the country's only ever Igbo
president, General Thomas Aguiyi- Ironsi.


In January 1970, after more than one million Biafrans had died,
mostly from starvation, Ojukwu surrendered and the Republic of
Biafra was no more.


"We didn't fulfill our dreams, but ours is not a lost
generation", said Ojukwu, who is still an impressive figure, with
his black goatee.


"The fact that you don't succeed in something you undertake
doesn't mean that you were wrong", he said, his voice still
filled with emotion and indignation when he talks of "genocide"
in which thousands of Igbos died.


Asked why he is running for president when he stands no chance of
winning, he told AFP he is doing it "in the interests of the
people".


"There's still life and energy in there", he said mischieviously
patting his paunch. "I'm Igbo, Biafran and Nigerian", he said to
explain why a former seccessionist is now seeking to lead the
whole federation.


Sunk into a roccoco couch in his living room in this town that
was the capital of Biafra from 1967 to 1970, he explained that
the whole of Igboland will vote massively for him: "It's not a
wish, but a certitude".


The plates on his Mercedes 600 still read "Igbo 1".


This Oxford-educated millionaire's son speaks fluent Igbo, Yoruba
and Hausa, the three main languages of Nigeria, as well as
French.


He perfected this last language during his exile in Ivory Coast
after the war.


On his return from exile in 1982 he went back into politics,
joining the then ruling National Party of Nigeria (NPN). He ran
for a post of senator but was not successful. He also ran against
Obasanjo in the 2003 elections.


This time, Ojukwu said, he wants to "remedy lots of things in
this country", where "chief rhymes with thief". He talked of
wanting to "turn Nigeria into a better democracy and a true
federation". He says he wants to "abolish fear".


And yet he denies any intention of blaming Obasanjo, his
adversary from 40 years back, whom he refered ironically as "my
very good friend".


"I'm not tired. I'm still alive", said Igbo No 1, over the sound
of children shouting and a barking dog.


Outside, the old Mercedes, complete with dusty little curtains
and cracked dashboard, still stands guard over his dreams.

