

Prime Minister John Howard, responding to a deadly rampage at a
US university, said Tuesday that strict controls after one of the
world's worst massacres by a lone gunman had helped Australia
avoid a US-style "gun culture."


Howard ordered tougher controls after Martin Bryant killed 35
people in a shooting spree through Port Arthur in Tasmania in
1996.


"We had a terrible incident at Port Arthur," he said. "But it is
the case that 11 years ago we took action to limit the
availability of guns and we showed a national resolve that the
gun culture that is such a negative in the United States would
never become a negative in our country."


Monday's rampage at Virginia Tech University in the United States
left 33 people dead, including the gunman.


After the Port Arthur massacre on April 28, 1996, tougher new gun
laws saw some 700,000 weapons, including semi-automatics,
destroyed after being handed over to officials in a multi-million
dollar buy-back programme.


While the latest US shooting has revived debate there about what
role easy access to guns plays in crime, Howard indicated on the
10th anniversary of the Port Arthur massacre last year that he
had no doubts.


"Gun-related deaths, murders and otherwise, have fallen sharply
since 1996," he said then. "I think that's got something to do
with the gun laws."


A study by the University of Sydney, published last December,
found that in addition to a decade free of mass shootings after
the new laws were introduced, the risk of dying by gunshot in
Australia had halved.


"From 1996 to 2003, the total number of gun deaths each year fell
from 521 to 289, suggesting that the removal of more than 700,000
guns was associated with a faster declining rate of gun suicide
and gun homicide," said Philip Alpers of the university's school
of public health.


"This was a milestone public health and safety issue, driven by
an overwhelming swing in public opinion, and promptly delivered
by governments."


The study, published in the international research journal Injury
Prevention, found that by 2002-03, Australia's rate of 0.27
firearm-related homicides per 100,000 population had dropped to
one-fifteenth that of the United States.


"The Australian example provides evidence that removing large
numbers of firearms from a community can be associated with a
sudden and on-going decline in mass shootings, and accelerating
declines in total firearm-related deaths, firearm homicides and
firearm suicides," the study concluded.


Tasmanian Premier Paul Lennon said Tuesday that he had written to
Virginia Governor Tim Kaine offering help based on lessons
learned after the island's own horrific massacre.


"Following a similar incident at Port Arthur in our state we
experienced how such an unexpected and tragic event can leave
individuals and communities feeling deeply shocked and helpless,"
he wrote.


"I offer our support and assistance, should there be any way in
which Tasmania can help Virginians as they begin the long healing
process that follows such a tragedy."


The Port Arthur gunman, Bryant, now 39, is serving 35 life
sentences in a Tasmanian prison without possibility of parole.

