

Philippine Marines killed one gunman and captured two others on
Tuesday as they continued their hunt for a renegade Muslim
separatist leader, a military official said.


The clash in Panamao town in the southern island of Jolo came
despite a call from the influential Organisation of the Islamic
Conference (OIC) for an end to hostilities there.


Marines fought with an unknown number of followers of Habier
Malik, of the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF), killing one
MNLF fighter and capturing two others, said Major General Ruben
Rafael.


Many firearms were recovered, he said without giving details.


President Gloria Arroyo's spokesman, Ignacio Bunye, said the
government was aware of the OIC's call to end the violence.


"The rule of law itself has come under threat and must be upheld
by aggressive law enforcement operations with an eye on the
safety and well-being of civilians who may be caught in the
crossfire. We cannot have a peace agreement hostaged to the whim
of the lawless," Bunye added.


The situation in the area remained tense as the armed forces
continued hunting for Malik after his shelling of a Marine camp
on April 6, killing two Marines and a civilian, Rafael said.


Philippine troops seized Malik's training camp in Panamao at the
weekend, and killed another gunman on Monday.


It was not clear why Malik's forces attacked the camp, although
there was speculation he wanted to pressure the government into
releasing MNLF founder Nur Misuari from jail.


Manila signed a peace treaty with the MNLF in 1996, ending a
decades-old separatist campaign in return for limited Muslim
self-rule. The government is now in talks with a second faction,
the Moro Islamic Liberation Front.


The 57-nation OIC, which brokered the peace talks with the MNLF,
still recognises the group as the sole representative of the
Philippines' Muslim minority.


The secretary general of the OIC has called for an end to the
fighting in Jolo but Rafael stressed that "the order of the chief
of staff is to pursue Malik and neutralise or arrest him. He has
murdered innocent civilians and he has to face the law."

