

South Korea called Tuesday for humane treatment for North Korean
refugees, as three teenaged northerners faced possible
repatriation from Laos after fleeing their communist homeland.


"The government has been doing its best to help North Korean
refugees go wherever they want to go," a foreign ministry
spokesman told AFP.


"It always supports their treatment in a humanitarian way."


He refused to comment specifically on the three -- aged 12, 14
and 17 -- who are in Laos facing deportation and what rights
activists say might be execution back home.


Japan's non-governmental group Life Funds for North Korean
Refugees said Friday the trio, caught crossing to Thailand by
Laotian officials after a long journey through China, could be
executed if returned home.


The group, which interviewed the North Koreans, reported that
Laotian officials had demanded they pay 1,000 dollars in bribes
for their release or face deportation. The Laotian embassy in
Tokyo denied the charges.


The teenagers are Choi Hyok, his sister Choi Hyang and their
travelling companion Choi Hyang-Mi. The brother and sister
reportedly fled to China after losing their parents in the late
1990s, when hundeds of thousands of North Koreans died in a
famine.


They are refusing to be repatriated and are said to want to go to
the United States.


"We have come this far in search of freedom. We are unfortunate
children who may die just because we wanted freedom," wrote Choi
Hyang in an appeal for help released by the Japanese group.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans escape to neighboring China,
and often move on to Mongolia or Southeast Asia to try to secure
safe passage to South Korea.


China returns any refugees it catches as economic migrants, a
policy which has been strongly criticised by rights groups.


South Korean diplomats overseas have also come in for criticism
for what the rights groups say is a tacit policy of discouraging
refugees for fear of offending North Korea.


The number of northerners who have made it to South Korea since
the end of the 1950-53 war topped the 10,000 mark in February.

