

Jury selection began in Miami Monday in the trial of US citizen
Jose Padilla, who is charged with conspiracy to commit terror but
not in the alleged radioactive bomb plot for which he was
arrested five years ago.


Several of the prospective jurors were asked whether they had
heard of the "dirty bomb" allegation that had been cited for
holding Padilla in military detention but does not figure in his
indictment.


Federal Judge Marcia Cooke also made it clear Padilla is not
accused of direct involvement in the September 11, 2001 terror
attacks that killed almost 3,000 people in the United States.


"The events in this case have nothing to do with 9/11," she told
one of the potential jurors, asking him he if he would be able to
set aside any notion the attacks had anything to do with the
trial.


Prosecutors said they did not intend to link defendants with the
attacks, but stressed there would be testimony connecting them
with the Al-Qaeda terror network which is blamed for smashing
planes into New York's World Trade towers and the Pentagon.


Padilla, 36, who spent three and a half years in military
detention without charges, is accused of plotting to murder,
kidnap and maim people in Afghanistan and elsewhere outside the
United States.


Padilla and co-defendants Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael
Jayyousi, are also charged with aiding a US-based Al-Qaeda terror
cell that supplied recruits and funding to Islamic extremists
abroad.


But the federal charges make no mention of the claim he planned
to detonate a radioactive bomb in the United States. The
allegation was made by then-attorney general John Ashcroft after
Padilla was arrested in 2002, and was cited as a reason for
keeping him in a navy brig as an "enemy combatant."


Several of the 17 potential jurors interviewed on Monday said
they were unsure whether they could be unbiased.


"It would be difficult for me to keep an open mind when the
subject is terrorism," one of the potential panelists told the
court. Another linked Padilla with the alleged "dirty bomb" plot.


Several others said they had never heard of the case.


Nine men and women -- equivalent to half the panel of 12 jurors
and six alternates -- were ordered to show up at the courtroom on
May 1, and were requested not to read media reports about the
case until then.


Padilla's lawyers had tried to get the case dismissed over
allegations their client was tortured at a military prison from
2002 to 2005, but Cooke rejected the motion earlier this month,
saying there was no indication he had been mistreated by civilian
authorities.


A former Chicago gang member of Puerto Rican descent who
converted to Islam, Padilla was detained in May 2002 at Chicago's
O'Hare airport after returning from Pakistan, and was taken to a
naval base in South Carolina.


The subject of a fierce tug-of-war between the administration of
President George W. Bush and civil liberties groups, custody of
Padilla was transferred to the civilian courts in 2005 after his
lawyers prepared to challenge his military detention before the
Supreme Court.


The government has not explained why his indictment makes no
mention of the alleged dirty bomb plot.


The indictment alleges he traveled abroad to train as a "jihad"
fighter and filled out an application to receive "violent jihad
training" while in Afghanistan in July 2000.


Padilla, also known as Abdullah al-Mujahir, has pleaded not
guilty to the charges. If convicted he could face life in prison.


Padilla was born in Brooklyn, New York, and grew up in Chicago.
He later moved to South Florida.

