

Wallabies hooker Brendan Cannon retired from professional rugby
Tuesday after being told he risked permanent damage to his spinal
cord if he continued playing.


The 34-year-old has suffered two neck injuries playing for the
Western Force in the past year, the most recent when a scrum
collapse against the Crusaders on April 7 left him with weakness
and numbness in his left arm.


Cannon is the second high-profile international hooker to quit on
medical advice in a few days, after England's Steve Thompson
announced his retirement from all rugby at the weekend.


Cannon said doctors had told him he could not continue.


"It would have been very silly of me to tempt fate again,
particularly with a much greater risk of permanent injury," he
said in a statement.


"And, to be honest, I didn't want to jeopardise my future as a
good husband and father, so the decision was really driven by my
commitment to my family."


Cannon started his rugby career in Queensland in 1994 before
moving to New South Wales in 2000, and became the first player to
sign for Perth's fledgling Western Force in 2005.


He debuted for the Wallabies against the British Lions in 2001 in
Melbourne and played 42 international Tests, the last against
Italy in November.


Cannon last week criticised new scrum engagement laws, saying
they had made packing down more dangerous.


"In some ways it has probably brought an element of danger to it
because the front row have to be balanced there for a longer
period of time, and you have anywhere between 900-1,000 kilograms
(1,985-2,200lb) behind you," he told New Zealand television.


"You may not get many guys that want to speak out publicly about
it, but I think there is a general frustration there."


Thompson, who won the World Cup with England in 2003, is retiring
aged 28 due to a disc problem in his neck.


He took a heavy blow during his last club game for Northampton on
January 21, and told the Mail on Sunday newspaper that doctors
had warned him another impact could paralyse or even kill him.

