

Oil prices were mixed in Asian trade Tuesday in a market focussed
on US inventory levels, dealers said.


At 2:40 pm (0640 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for May delivery, was at 63.61 dollars a barrel,
unchanged from late US trades Monday.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery gained 33 cents to 67.58
dollars.


"They are looking at the overall inventory levels including the
gasoline (petrol) stocks," said Steve Rowles, an analyst with CFC
Seymour in Hong Kong.


"If the market sees some unexpected change, it will have an
impact," he said ahead of a weekly US stocks report to be issued
Wednesday.


US crude oil inventories rose 700,000 barrels to 333.4 million in
the week to April 6, well below market forecasts of a gain of 1.7
million barrels.


Gasoline reserves fell 5.5 million barrels to 199.7 million, the
heaviest weekly decline since August 2003 and larger than market
expectations for a drop of just 1.4 million barrels.


Dealers are closely watching gasoline stocks ahead of the peak-
demand summer driving season when many Americans take to the
highways for their holidays.


American refineries are presently unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited capacity,
which in part explains a persistent gap between North American
and European oil prices.


Noting the drop in oil inventories, the Organisation of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) on Monday said it was
maintaining its forecast for growth of world oil demand in 2007
at 1.5 percent.


The market is also watching developments in Africa's largest
producer, Nigeria, where at least 21 people died last weekend
during state polls ahead of presidential and general elections
next Saturday.


Nigeria has seen its oil production slashed since last year owing
to disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign oil
workers.


"The Nigerian presidential election will take place this coming
weekend and had been pinpointed for many months now as one of the
main geopolitical risks of 2007," Petromatrix analyst Olivier
Jakob said.

