

The United States and European Union have called on Nigeria to
curb violence and take action to prevent vote-rigging in
Saturday's presidential election, while a Supreme Court ruling
has added to controversy over the poll.


A curfew has been imposed in at least three states after the vote
for governors and local assemblies last Saturday sparked violence
that left at least 21 dead. Political turmoil has been increased
by the Supreme Court reinstating Vice President Atiku Abubakar to
this weekend's ballot.


US and EU officials strongly criticised the handling of last
weekend's vote.


"In Nigeria, the United States takes seriously reports of voting
irregularities and election-related violence during this past
weekend's state and local elections," said US presidential
spokeswoman Dana Perino.


"We would urge that officials address any problems in order to
ensure that Saturday's presidential election, that those polls,
are free and fair and conducted in an atmosphere free of
violence," she said.


The election will see the first civilian-to-civilian transfer of
power in Nigeria since independence in 1960.


EU observers who monitored the state governorship elections also
expressed "serious concerns" about the vote.


Polling stations stayed opened late because officials had arrived
late and there were problems delivering ballot papers and other
polling materials, the EU mission said in a statement.


Observers criticised under-age voting, failure to guarantee the
secrecy of the ballot and a shortage of electoral officials.


There were "incidents of hijacking of ballot boxes by groups of
thugs" as well as irregularities that led to significant
discrepancies between results at polling stations and ballot
collation at the local government level, they said.


The statement urged the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC) to ensure significant improvements before the presidential
and legislative elections.


"Preparations should have been of a higher standard and must be
substantially improved in the coming days to deliver a credible
and secure process at the federal elections," the EU statement
said.


The Nigerian Supreme Court on Monday reversed an electoral
commission ruling that had disqualified top opposition politician
Abubakar from the presidential poll.


Abubakar should now be allowed to stand in Saturday's poll as
nobody can appeal the decision of the nation's highest judicial
instance, lawyers said.


Although INEC lawyer Joe Gadzama said the Supreme Court ruling
meant that "anybody can contest," the agency had not said by late
Monday whether it has the capability and logistics to accommodate
Abubakar for Saturday.


The agency could ask for a postponement of the election.


"We are calling on the INEC to put his name on the ballot
sheets," Max van den Berg, the head of the EU election observer
mission, told AFP Monday.


Van den Berg said he had been assured by the agency's chief
Maurice Iwu that Abubakar could be added to ballot papers.


"If it doesn't happen it will be intentional," van den Berg said.


The Supreme Court decision is a setback for outgoing President
Olusegun Obasanjo.


After falling out with Abubakar, his deputy since 1999, Obasanjo
had sworn that Abubakar would not succeed him.


Obasanjo has also been trying to ensure an easy ride for his
chosen candidate, the ruling party's Umaru Yar'Adua, in the April
21 poll.


Obasanjo last August openly accused his deputy of corruption and
had him investigated. A government-backed panel of inquiry
indicted Abubakar of allegedly siphoning off money from a
petroleum fund he managed.


INEC then barred him from standing in the poll.


Since then Abubakar, 60, has been battling to get that decision
overturned.


He has won in most of the dozen or so court cases in which he has
been a plaintiff or defendant.


Late last year, the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
expelled him and he defected to Action Congress (AC), one of the
PDP's two main challengers.

