

Five days ahead of presidential elections, a non-existent Arab
actor has brought back to the fore long-standing arguments over
the right policies for integrating France's estimated five
million Muslims.


In an unprecedented move, the country's most prestigious theatre
company, the Comedie-Francaise, has been forced to cancel
performances of one of its spring highlights -- because it has no
Arab member able to take on a key role.


In a bitter exchange of communiques, the brother of late
playwright Bernard- Marie Koltes -- author of "Le Retour au
Desert" (Return to the Desert) -- and the theatre's
administrators have accused each other of racism and failing to
respect the spirit of the play.


But at the heart of the controversy lies a deeper question of
minority representation in French institutions -- or the lack of
it.


"Beyond the theatrical arguments, the row is about something
else: the fact that the Comedie-Francaise contains not a single
actor of Arab origin, while for example the big British companies
have for years recruited actors from the former colonies," said
Le Monde's theatre critic Fabienne Darge.


"But surely that is the least that could be asked of our main
dramatic showcase -- that it reflect the composition of our
country."


"Le Retour du Desert" -- about the arguments in a French family
at the time of the Algeria war -- marked the first ever
performance by the Comedie-Francaise of a play by Koltes, who
died of complications from AIDS in 1989 at the age of 41.


However what should have been a triumphant entry into the
company's prized repertoire was soured by complaints from Koltes'
brother and copyright-holder Francois, who said that the
playwright had wanted the part of the family servant Aziz to be
played by an Arab.


The fact that he was not "removes an essential element from the
meaning of the play, especially when one considers the importance
Koltes gave to body and language -- and to the responses that
Aziz makes," said Francois Koltes.


The Comedie-Francaise's administrator Muriel Mayette responded by
offering to chair a public debate on the issue of racial-typing
in the theatre, and in an interview with Le Monde newspaper said
that it would be a backward step if Arabs could only be played by
Arabs.


"By that reasoning, a Chinese actor cannot play Moliere," she
said.


But to this Francois Koltes reacted angrily, accusing the theatre
of implying that his brother was a racist. He then exercised his
right to cancel the play after 30 performances, which meant the
run was abruptly halted.


Coming just ahead of the elections, the case has reawakened the
debate over positive discrimination -- or affirmative action --
which surfaced in dramatic fashion during the 2005 riots in
France's high-immigration suburbs.


Most French politicians reject as "anti-republican" the notion of
favouring one sector of society over another, but critics say the
end-result is a severe and destabilising under-representation of
blacks and Arabs in the media, arts and advertising, let alone
government.


Right-wing presidential favourite Nicolas Sarkozy has promised to
introduce "French-style positive discrimination" but he remains a
lone voice -- and it is not clear in practice what his idea would
mean.


Comedie-Francaise's secretary-general Pierre Notte conceded that
there are currently no Arab-origin actors among the 325 year-old
troupe's 56 members -- despite the community's importance -- but
he rejected suggestions that the company has something to
apologise for.


"We have had Arab actors in the past -- eight altogether -- and
we will have more in the future. And right now there are all
sorts of actors of different origins -- Malian, Belgian, Polish,
Armenian. There is no criteria for recruitment other than talent.


"The debate over how best to reflect society is essential, but I
say that we do reflect society. To complain that at a particular
moment we do not have an Arab actor is not serious -- and its is
incredibly reactionary to suggest we should hire one specially.
That way Shylock is only ever played by a Jew."

