

South American presidents gathered Monday on the eve of a summit
on pipelines, refineries and a gas cartel, promising not to lock
horns over biofuels.


The two-day summit on Margarita island is expected to focus on
big-ticket regional projects promoted by Venezuela, the only
Latin American member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC).


In a prelude to the summit, host President Hugo Chavez lay the
cornerstone of a PDVSA-Petrobras complex with Brazilian President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.


"Nothing better than this event to open this summit," Chavez said
of the plants, one of which will produce polyethylene and the
other, polypropylene.


It will be owned 50-50 by binational, private-public
partnerships, which, Chavez said, shows "private investment will
not be excluded."


Pequiven, a subsidiary of Petroleos of Venezuela SA, PDVSA, and
Braskem, a subsidiary of Brazil's Odebrecht will invest in the
five-billion-dollar project 300 kilometers (185 miles) outside
Caracas.


Besides Chavez and Lula, slated to attend the meeting on
Venezuela's Caribbean island Margaritas are Presidents Evo
Morales of Bolivia, Alvaro Uribe of Colombia, Michelle Bachelet
of Chile, Rafael Correa of Ecuador, Nicanor Duarte of Paraguay,
Alan Garcia of Peru and Tabare Vazquez of Uruguay.


The presidents will tackle other projects, such as a gas pipeline
between Venezuela and the Pacific Coasts of Colombia and Panama,
expected to provide 10 million dollars to improve the quality of
life in villages along the pipeline route.


The South American leaders will also discuss ethanol, a biofuel
produced mainly by Brazil from sugarcane and the United States
from corn.


Aides said Lula would reiterate his commitment to the expansion
of ethanol, which he highlighted in talks last month with US
President George W. Bush.


Both Chavez and his Cuban ally Fidel Castro have warned that
increased ethanol production would fuel global hunger by using up
arable land needed for food production.


But the Venezuelan president insisted he would not pick a fight
with Brazil's moderate leftist leader.


"We will never fight with Lula. We will never fight with Brazil.
Our enemy is the US empire," Chavez said.


Leaders at the summit also planned to discuss another ambitious
pipeline project that would extend 5,000-miles (8,000-kilometers)
and deliver natural gas from Venezuela to Argentina, Brazil,
Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay.


Brazil and Venezuela agreed in January to move ahead with the
first stage of the project, which would take the pipeline to the
Brazilian city of Recife.


Chavez is also certain to highlight his country's Petro-America
project, which sells crude at preferential prices to impoverished
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.


Buoyed by high oil prices, Venezuela is also building refineries
in Cuba, Brazil, Jamaica, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay and
Uruguay.


Venezuela, together with Iran, is promoting the creation of an
OPEC-like cartel for natural gas-exporting countries. Both
countries' energy ministers discussed the idea during a two-day
gathering in Doha earlier this month.

