

An outpouring of horror filled US newspapers on Tuesday after 33
people were killed in shootings at a Virginia university, raising
questions about gun regulations seen by some as too lax.


The New York Times called Monday's carnage "another horrifying
reminder that some of the gravest dangers Americans face come
from killers at home armed with guns that are frighteningly easy
to obtain."


"It seems a safe bet that in one way or another, this will turn
out to be another instance in which an unstable or criminally
minded individual had no trouble arming himself and harming
defenseless people," the paper's editorial said.


The gunman shot dead at least 30 people in a campus building
before turning the gun on himself. The carnage came two hours
after two others were killed in a shooting in a dormitory on the
campus. It remained unclear early Tuesday whether the same gunman
had been involved in both shootings.


"Bloodbath," read the headline in the tabloid daily New York
Post.


The Washington Post said it was "the deadliest mass shooting of
civilians in American history."


"Young lives brimming with promise and possibility were cut short
by that now familiar campus scourge: an aggrieved gunman, or
gunmen, on a rampage," the Post wrote, referring to earlier
incidents such as the Columbine High School shootings in Colorado
in 1999.


"Under what circumstances, and where, did the gunman obtain his
weapons?" the paper added. "And why are gunmen so apt to carry
out their lethal rampages at American schools?"


"The parents, relatives and friends of the victims at Virginia
Tech will not mourn alone. Their tragedy is America's too."


The killings sparked anger and sadness as police hunted for clues
into what motivated the killer. Police had not yet publicly
identified him.


In the state of Virginia, the Roanoke Times in the nearby town of
Roanoke cited another deadly incident at the Virginia Tech
campus, which left a security guard and a policeman dead after an
escaped prisoner tried to hide there in August 2006.


"People's nerves are still on edge from the recent bomb threats
that shut down a campus building," the newspaper added in an
editorial on its website, referring to events reported earlier
this month. "And now this tragedy tears open deep, new wounds."


"Sympathy was not enough at the time of Columbine, and eight
years later it is not enough," the New York Times said,
emphasizing that Virginia imposes few restrictions on the buying
of handguns and has weak gun licensing requirements.


"What is needed, urgently, is stronger controls over the lethal
weapons that cause such wasteful carnage and such unbearable
loss."

