

The pound climbed above 2.0 dollars for the first time for 14
years on Tuesday after data showed British annual inflation
surged to a decade-high above 3.0 percent in March, dealers said.


The pound jumped as high as 2.0003 dollars, last seen in
September 1992, after news that British 12-month inflation had
hit 3.1 percent last month, the highest level since 1997 and in
breach of a government-set ceiling of 3.0 percent.


Analysts said the prospect of higher British interest rates, in
order to bring inflation under control, had propelled the pound
past the psychological 2.0-dollar barrier.


"This is a thoroughly nasty set of data that essentially
guarantees that the Bank of England will raise interest rates by
a further 25 basis points to 5.50 percent in May," Global Insight
analyst Howard Archer said.


Bank of England governor Mervyn King must now write a letter to
British finance minister Gordon Brown, explaining why he has
failed to keep 12-month inflation within target. The central bank
was due to publish the letter at 0930 GMT.


The BoE has increased rates three times since last August, most
recently with a surprise hike in January, as it fights above-
target annual inflation which had surged to a decade-high of 3.0
percent last December.


Earlier this month, the central bank froze its key interest rate
at 5.25 percent for the third month in a row earlier this month
as it opted for a wait-and-see stance on the economy.


"The inflation numbers we have seen so far - for housing,
producer and consumer prices - are all pushing higher so this has
got to be enough reason for the bank to tighten rates in May,"
Deutsche Bank analyst George Buckley said on Tuesday.


British borrowing costs remain at the same level as US interest
rates, while in the eurozone they stand at 3.75 percent. Japan's
key rate is 0.50 percent.


The Bank of England was granted independence to set British
interest rates in 1997, after Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour
government swept to power almost 10 years ago.

