

Cambodia's opposition leader Tuesday accused the government of
deliberately delaying efforts to try former Khmer Rouge leaders
as his party commemorated the fall of Phnom Penh to the communist
guerrillas 32 years ago.


Hundreds of party supporters and monks gathered at the Cheoung Ek
killing fields outside the capital, where thousands were
bludgeoned to death by Khmer Rouge cadres, to mark Cambodia's
grimmest anniversary.


Sam Rainsy demanded a global effort to try those responsible for
one of the worst genocides of the 20th century, following a
series of delays to a UN-backed tribunal.


"The tribunal has been created, but it does not work," he said.


"The world as a whole must push for the trial of criminals who
massacred millions of people."


Up to two million people died of overwork and starvation or were
executed under the 1975-79 rule of the Khmer Rouge, which
abolished religion, property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.


Cambodia's long bid to find justice has again been delayed by a
row over legal fees for foreign defence lawyers participating in
the trials.


International judges on the tribunal have set the end of this
month as the latest deadline for resolving the issue.


But the dispute has already forced jurists to repeatedly postpone
the approval of tribunal regulations necessary for the long-
stalled trials to move forward, pushing a possible start date
back to 2008.


Sam Rainsy said some former Khmer Rouge cadres who currently hold
government posts were guilty of atrocities committed under the
regime.


"Now they are in power, so they do not want this tribunal to go
forward," he said.


"If it's not this, it's that -- if they don't have any excuse
(for delays), they come up with one, whether it's political
obstacles, administrative, procedural or financial obstacles, so
there is no end... to delays," he told reporters, without naming
any specific government officials.


The government has denied any role in the many delays plaguing
the tribunal.


But rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift
trials amid concerns that ageing Khmer Rouge leaders will die
before being brought to justice.


"They want those Khmer Rouge leaders to die one by one, so the
court must be suspended indefinitely," Sam Rainsy said.


Villager Sum Ket, who lost 23 relatives under the regime, said
the trials needed to take place as soon as possible "in order to
make an example for the younger generation."

