

It's the kind of crime that defies comprehension: an angry man
with a gun walks into a school and picks his victims at random.


He is no serial killer, carefully stalking his prey. He is no
vengeful husband, destroying the family he built and lost.


He kills, seemingly, without rhyme or reason and then turns the
gun on himself.


Few details have emerged about the man who killed at least 30
people at Virginia Tech University in the bloodiest school
shooting in US history Monday.


Students described him as "Asian-looking," wearing a brown
hiking-type shirt with a black vest over it, and standing around
six feet tall.


They said he repeatedly fired on cowering students and staff in
an attempt to kill as many people as possible. Police recovered
two weapons and said doors to the building had been chained from
the inside.


The most common profile for a mass murderer is the lone gunman:
someone who is "isolated, reclusive and antisocial," said Alan
Langlieb, director of workplace psychiatry at Johns Hopkins
University.


When asked to explain how anyone could commit such a horrific
crime, Langlieb said simply "there's no answer."


"It's not exactly clear what snaps," he said, explaining that
human behavior is too complex to lend itself to straightforward
answers.


"Some of it is premeditated, but a person could wake up that day
and decide I'm going to create social havoc."


There are very few people who have enough disregard for human
life to perpetrate such horrific acts of random violence and most
of those will never carry out such an act, Langlieb said.


But for someone who is pathologically unstable, socially
isolated, angry at the world and out to make a statement,
something as simple as a news story could be enough to set them
off.


And it is nearly impossible to figure out ahead of time when that
will happen and who will be the one to snap.


"On the wrong day with the right weapon and the right confluence
of events you can have a catastrophe," Langlieb said.


The US Secret Service has said "there is no accurate or useful
'profile' of students who engaged in targeted school violence."


It reached those conclusions after studying 37 incidents of
targeted school violence involving 41 attackers in the United
States between 1974 and June 2000.


Very few of the attackers were failing in school and some were
even on the honor roll. Nearly two thirds had never been in
trouble at school and most showed no marked change in academic
performance, interest in school, friendship patterns or school
disciplinary problems prior to the attack.


The largest group of shooters were considered to be "mainstream"
students (41 percent) but about a third were characterized as
"loners" and about a quarter were part of a "fringe" group.


Most attackers had no history of violence or criminal behavior,
but about three quarters of the attackers felt "persecuted,
bullied, threatened, attacked or injured by others prior to the
attack."


They were also likely to have had trouble "coping with
significant losses or personal failures" and 98 percent had
"experienced or perceived some major loss prior to the attack."


The study found that these attacks are rarely "sudden, impulsive
acts:" more than half of the shooters had been planning the
attack for at least a month and more than two thirds of the
attackers had told more than one person about the plan before
they carried it out.


A study by the FBI found students engage in school violence often
displayed a preoccupation with violence, depression, narcissism,
alienation, lack of empathy, anger management problems,
intolerance and a lack of trust in others.


Blaming society or violence on television is not the answer,
Langlieb said, noting that people react very differently to the
same situation and that antisocial personalities develop at an
early age and seem to have been present throughout history and
across cultures.


"Society can do more in a preventative way to get help and
support for people who are in need but that's very different from
saying living in a stressful environment makes people engage in
road rage," he said.


"People have been angry through all time and we're now seeing it
manifest in different ways. It's not so much what goes on in the
environment as much as how people cope with stress."

