

The United States and Britain generated the conflict in Iraq and
now must help millions of Iraqis who have fled their homes, a
leading human rights group said Tuesday at the start of a UN
conference on the displacement crisis.


The US-based group Human Rights Watch (HRW) also said in a
statement that Jordan and Syria -- which together host nearly two
million Iraqi refugees -- were bearing the brunt of the crisis
but were not responsible for creating it.


"The United States and the United Kingdom bear a particular
responsibility to help people displaced in and out of Iraq," said
Bill Frelick, refugee director at HRW.


"They undertook a war that has directly caused thousands of
deaths, widespread fear and suffering, and forced displacement."


"This precipitated a sectarian conflict that has caused
additional violence, persecution and displacement on a massive
scale," Frelick added.


HRW warned that Iraq's neighbours were "closing off escape
routes" for fleeing Iraqis by setting up more restrictions.


The two-day meeting of government and aid officials from 60
countries is examining ways of bolstering the international
response to mass displacement and an exodus from Iraq caused by
sectarian violence.


More than four million Iraqis are displaced, including 1.9
million within their own country, according to the latest data
released by the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR).


The UNHCR, which called the meeting, says aid needs are
"skyrocketing" as up to 50,000 Iraqis flee the violence every
month.


Many of the Iraqi refugees abroad had fled Saddam Hussein's
regime before it was toppled in 2003.


But the UNHCR estimated earlier this year that nearly 800,000
Iraqis had fled their homes since sectarian violence intensified
in February 2006.


HRW acknowledged that Jordan and Syria were carrying a heavy
burden, but also pointed to a seven billion dollar high-tech
barrier it says Saudi Arabia is building on its border with Iraq.


Another aid group, the Norwegian Refugee Council, warned that
there was a limit to the number of refugees Syria and Jordan
could cope with.


About 95 percent of fleeing Iraqis remain in the Middle East, but
the number of Iraqis fleeing to industralised countries has
surged by 77 percent (22,200) in the space of a year, according
to UNHCR data.

