

The Kremlin on Tuesday dismissed two opposition protests over the
weekend as "marginal" and said they had been exaggerated in the
foreign media.


"Let's not forget they are marginal. They are extremely
marginal," Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir
Putin, said on state-run English- language television Russia
Today.


Peskov accused foreign media of "certain exaggeration" in
reporting the anti- Putin protests in Moscow and Saint Petersburg
in which riot police beat peaceful demonstrators and briefly
detained hundreds.


"I think some (police) overreaction really took place," Peskov
said, "but the main goal was to ensure law and order in the
streets."


About 2,000 people attended both rallies to protest what they
describe as Putin's destruction of democracy in Russia.


Huge numbers of riot police -- about 9,000 in Moscow -- were
deployed to control the relatively small demonstrations.


An EU external relations spokeswoman said she was "very
concerned" by the violence.


The White House said it was "deeply disturbed by the heavy-handed
manner in which this weekend's demonstrations in Moscow and Saint
Petersburg were broken up by the authorities, and by an emerging
pattern of use of excessive force by the authorities in reaction
to similar events."


Separately, Peskov reiterated the official line that Putin has no
plans to stand for a third term and that he will step down in
2008, as required by the constitution.


"Definitely Mr Putin will leave his office in nearly one year and
there will be a new president," Peskov said. "It will be
democratic elections. There won't be any successor."


However, Putin has the right to endorse a candidate, Peskov said.


"He will have a right to say in accordance with his personal view
that this or that man will be the best."


Putin overwhelmingly dominates the political scene in Russia and
analysts believe that whomever he backs will easily win the
presidency in the March 2008 election.


Opponents have claimed that Putin is planning to stage-manage the
vote to ensure that his chosen successor wins, or even to change
the constitution so that he can run a third time himself.

