

UN legal adviser Nicolas Michel is due in Beirut on Tuesday for
talks aimed at persuading Lebanon's opposition to accept the
launch of an international tribunal to try suspects in former
premier Rafiq Hariri's murder.


The Western-backed government has called for the UN Security
Council to impose the setting up of the tribunal, endorsed in the
world body's Resolution 1595, if the pro-Syrian opposition
continues to block its establishment.


"We are going there to succeed and for this we need the
cooperation of all Lebanese parties," Michel said in New York
last week.


The UN official is due to hold talks with the government of Prime
Minister Fuad Siniora and the opposition to encourage the two
parties to renew dialogue and accept ratification of a Lebanon-UN
agreement to set up the court.


But Hezbollah has cautioned the United Nations to remain
impartial in Lebanon's long-running political deadlock which is
centred on the launch of the trial into the February 2005 murder
which was widely blamed on Damascus.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council should not meddle
in the crisis and take sides, it said.


Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said in a televised speech
earlier this month that the way to resolve Lebanon's domestic and
constitutional problems was "not to resort to foreign parties but
to the people."


He slammed a call by 70 anti-Syrian MPs for the Security Council
to step in and use its power to set up the international court.


MP Saad Hariri, son of the murdered ex-premier, has suggested the
United Nations could act under Chapter Seven which would mean the
Security Council imposing its decision on Lebanon.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but it must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament which is headed by a leading pro-Syrian
figure, Nabih Berri.


Criticising the tribunal in its current proposed form, the leader
of the Shiite militant group Hezbollah said the court was
"conceived in such a way that it would return pre-established
verdicts".


Michel said that while "the functioning of the tribunal will come
at a later stage ... at least now there is a need for certainty
as to the establishment of the legal basis for the tribunal."


Asked whether his mission was a last-ditch attempt to secure an
agreement in Beirut before the Security Council takes over the
issue, Michel said: "Everybody understands that there is an
element of time here."


The official is to brief the Security Council, which will then
have to rule on the issue, on his return to New York.


The political crisis in Lebanon was sparked by the resignation
last November of six pro-Syrian ministers, including all five
representing Lebanon's Shiite community, from the Siniora
government.


Alongside the efforts of the United Nations, Russia's Deputy
Foreign Minister Alexandre Soltanov was also due to hold talks in
Beirut on Tuesday aimed at resolving the crisis.

