

Crude prices were mixed in Asian trade Tuesday in a market
focussed on US inventory levels, dealers said.


At 11:36 am (0336 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for May delivery, was at 63.61 dollars a
barrel, unchanged from late US trades Monday.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery gained 33 cents to 67.58
dollars.


"They are looking at the overall inventory levels including the
gasoline stocks," said Steve Rowles, an analyst with CFC Seymour
in Hong Kong.


"If the market sees some unexpected change, it will have an
impact (on crude prices)," he said ahead of a weekly United
States Department of Energy (DoE) report to be issued Wednesday.


The DoE said last week that crude oil inventories rose by 700,000
barrels to 333.4 million in the week to April 6, well below
market forecasts of a gain of 1.7 million barrels.


Gasoline reserves fell by 5.5 million barrels to 199.7 million,
the heaviest weekly decline since August 2003 and larger than
market expectations for a drop of just 1.4 million barrels.


Traders are closely watching gasoline stocks ahead of the peak-
demand summer driving season when many Americans take to the
highways beginning at the end of May.


American refineries are presently unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States, according to industry experts.


This has led to a persistent gap between North American and
European oil prices.


Noting the drop in oil inventories, the Organisation of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) on Monday said it was
maintaining its forecast for growth of world oil demand in 2007
at 1.5 percent.


Traders are also monitoring Africa's largest crude producer,
Nigeria, where at least 21 people died last weekend during state
polls ahead of presidential and general elections next Saturday.


Nigeria has seen its oil production slashed since last year owing
to disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign workers.


"The Nigerian presidential election will take place this coming
weekend and had been pinpointed for many months now as one of the
main geopolitical risks of 2007," Petromatrix analyst Olivier
Jakob said.

