

Multi-millionaires Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal may be upset
over the reforms on the ATP circuit, but their problems are
nothing compared to those encountered by tennis players in Iraq.


Even putting together a team for next month's Davis Cup Group IV
Asia/Oceania tie in Burma is an achievement as three of their
group were murdered last August.


"It (the shootings of Naser Ali Hatim, Wisam Adel and Hussein
Ahmed Rashid) was not sectarian violence - one was Shia, the
other two were Sunni," said Iraqi number one Akram Mustafa
Abdulkarim.


"They were wearing tennis shorts and sports gear after training.


"They were killed because they were athletes. Many athletes are
killed without reason. Ten minutes before (they were shot), I was
talking with them on the phone. They were good friends. It's a
catastrophe for Iraqi sport."


Theirs is not the only sport to have suffered its share of
tragedy in a country that is believed to have seen 30,000
killings, according to the United Nations figures, in 2006 alone.


In May 2006, 15 members of the national taekwondo team were
kidnapped and have never been seen again.


Numerous players and coaches from football teams - their national
side created a sensation by reaching the Asian Games final - have
been killed leading the Baghdad clubs to take the drastic step of
playing their games in Kurdistan.


"It's hard to focus on tennis in these conditions," said the 25
-year-old Akram.


"A few weeks ago, I was playing a 'selection match' for the Davis
Cup.


"It was in Al-Shaab stadium. There was crossfire right next to
the court. Instinctively, I kept on ducking. It's dangerous to
play tennis. You don't feel free to play."


Akram said that the continuing violence had seen standards slip
in Iraqi tennis.


"We play fewer matches and tournaments," said Akram, who revealed
that even the equipment provided for them is either stolen or of
poor quality.


"We don't meet as many players as we used too. We don't have
money to travel abroad anymore to play against other players.


"Before, Iraqi tennis had a good reputation in the Arab world but
now our level has gone down. I feel I don't play as well as I
used to. Our level would go back up if they gave us the means to
do it."


Akram receives a bursary of 200,000 dinars (150 dollars) a month
and will receive a bonus of 10 dollars per day when he goes away
on Davis Cup duty.


"Most of people who used to play tennis before were wealthy, and
had high living standards. Most of those have now fled Iraq,"
said Akram who counts Federer as his role model.


"I love looking at Federer," he said. "He is much stronger than
Andre Agassi or Pete Sampras used to be. He never loses. It would
be a dream to play against him."

