

The governor of Virginia rushed home Tuesday from a trade mission
to Asia after a shooting rampage left 33 people dead at a
university in what he called a "bitter day" for his state.


Governor Timothy Kaine had landed Monday in Tokyo for a two-week
tour to negotiate business deals in Japan, Hong Kong and India.


"We just arrived yesterday but we had to turn around and go home
and be with the people there. It's a very serious matter," he
told reporters as he boarded a flight home.


Kaine said he had gone to bed early, tired from his 14-hour
flight to Japan, but was awakened two hours later with news of
the shooting.


From Tokyo, Kaine declared a state of emergency to coordinate the
response to the massacre at Virginia Tech University, the worst
school shooting in US history, and ordered flags to fly at half-
staff.


He said he stayed awake all night speaking by telephone with
officials in the United States, including President George W.
Bush.


"My wife and I feel very deeply that it's important that we be
back with the students and their families and the university
community to express our direct and sincere regret and to help
them with the healing process," Kaine said in an interview in
Tokyo with ABC News.


"It's a very bitter day for Virginia," he said. "It's sad to have
to not carry forward on what I know was to be a very wonderful
set of days here in Japan, but I know that people understand."


Kaine had been due to hold several days of closed-door talks with
corporate executives in Japan and Hong Kong before joining a
100-strong trade mission on a weeklong tour of India starting
April 22.


There, he had been scheduled to meet with business leaders in New
Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, in part to encourage Indian hi-tech
entrepreneurs to invest in Virginia, which has a major IT
industry in the Washington suburbs.


Kaine said he had also planned to discuss cooperation between
Virginia Tech and Indian universities.


"This is a wonderful campus, a campus with a real international
presence," he said.


Japan, which has strict controls on guns and few shootings,
condemned the killings in Virginia.


"More than 30 people died in this very tragic incident. I would
like to express condolences from the bottom of my heart," chief
government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki said.


All 21 Japanese studying at Virginia Tech are confirmed to be
safe, said Shiozaki, himself a graduate of a US university.


One survivor, 23-year-old student Mariko Uno, told Japanese media
she hid with 20 classmates for two and a half hours inside a
locked room near the site of the shooting.


"I was really surprised to learn such a rampage hit the campus
located in a safe country town," she told Kyodo News.

