

The German presidency of the European Union has expressed
"concern" over a Russian crackdown on opposition demonstrations
over the weekend and urged Moscow to respect democratic freedoms.


"The treatment meted out to demonstrators by the Russian security
forces raises questions about the proportionality of these
actions," the presidency said in a statement released late
Monday.


"The arrest of accredited journalists and the attacks on them on
the fringes of the demonstrations also give cause for concern."


Russian police clubbed and detained opposition protestors in
Saint Petersburg Sunday after a peaceful demonstration against
President Vladimir Putin, the second in two days resulting in
mass arrests.


The EU presidency said it had followed the events with "concern,"
adding that as a member of the United Nations, the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe,
the Russian Federation was obliged to respect freedom of speech
and of assembly.


"Observance of these principles is of particular importance in
view of the forthcoming elections in Russia," it said, noting
that human rights were addressed regularly at consultations
between the EU and Russia.


About 120 people were detained in Saint Petersburg, city police
told ITAR-TASS news agency, following the protest by The Other
Russia, an opposition coalition that accuses Putin of dismantling
democracy.


The clashes in Saint Petersburg followed a violent crackdown on a
similar rally by The Other Russia on Saturday in Moscow. At least
200 people were arrested there, including one of the coalition's
leaders, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov, who was
released hours later.


An EU-Russia summit is due to be held in Samara, Russia next
month.


And an EU-Russia troika meeting -- involving Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov -- is also scheduled on the sidelines of
an EU foreign ministers' meeting in Luxembourg next Monday.


Russia will hold legislative elections in December ahead of a
presidential vote next March.

