

Some played dead; others leapt out of windows or cowered in
locked rooms, frozen in fear by the pop of bullets echoing
through their school corridors.


The students of Virginia Tech University will long remember the
chaos and horror that visited the southern campus Monday when a
gunman unleashed the bloodiest school shooting spree in US
history.


Freshman Erin Sheehan survived the assault that claimed a total
of 33 lives but only by playing dead on the floor as the gunman
burst into her German class and methodically mowed her classmates
down.


"He seemed very thorough about it, getting almost everyone down.
I was trying to act dead," the shaven-headed Sheehan told CNN.
"He left for about 30 seconds, came back in, did almost exactly
the same thing."


Three more times the attacker, described by Sheehan as a young
Asian man, returned as the students fought desperately to keep
the door shut on him. Frustrated, he poured his ammunition into
the wood.


When it was over, only four of the two dozen people in the
classroom at Virginia Tech's Norris Hall were able to walk away.
"Everyone was else was unconscious, either dead or wounded
seriously," Sheehan said.


School authorities said some students jumped out of third or even
fourth-story windows as the gunman rampaged through the classroom
building, where the front doors were barricaded with chains.


Alec Calhoun, 20, told AFP he did not hesitate to hurl himself to
safety after hearing gunshots next door.


"I knocked over desks and pulled sceen windows and jumped from
the second floor," Calhoun said. "I could see people in front of
me land and hurt their ankles and legs.


"I aimed for a bush thinking it would help break my fall and I
landed on my back," he said. "The two people directly behind me
jumping out were shot; they're both in the hospital."


Tiffany Ottey recalled the chilling sense of dread she felt as
she huddled with classmates in a locked room while the gunman,
who later killed himself, stalked the hallways below firing 50
rounds by her count.


"I guess everybody was like freaking out, hysterical," Ottey told
CNN. "Who knows if the shooter was going to come up to the next
floor?"


Confusion and panic welled at the venerable southern university
as a man and a woman were found shot dead in a dormitory and,
while police investigated, all hell broke loose in Norris Hall
two hours later.


"This is an emergency. This is an emergency. Take shelter indoors
immediately. Stay away from windows and remain inside,"
loudspeakers blared as the 2,600-acre (1,040 hectare) campus was
shut down.


But school officials faced questions why they did not issue a
broad alert after the first shooting, which they said was
initially taken as a domestic incident.


The developing chaos was captured in dramatic cell phone video
footage that picked up the clatter of bullets fired in the
attack, far deadlier than the notorious 1999 shooting rampage at
Columbine High School in Colorado.


Television showed heavily armed police rushing across the grounds
under a light snowfall and a fleet of ambulances pulling up while
students ducked for cover, furiously exchanging e-mails and text
messages.


As the magnitude of the carnage became evident, the campus
community, relatives and friends started to pull together.
Student Matt Waldron got a phone call from a friend in another
fire zone -- Iraq.


"He's a soldier over there, just making sure that everybody is
okay," Waldron told CNN. "I'm sure today everybody got a lot of
calls from their family and friends, concerning the situation.
It's a tragedy."


But fingers were already being pointed at the gun culture
prevalent in the state of Virginia and in particular at Virginia
Tech University, which counts  26,000 students and is home to a
proud tradition of military cadets.


The school was not immune to violence, including the reported
death of a security guard and policeman after an escaped prisoner
tried to hide on campus last August. Two bomb hoaxes were
recorded this month, the last on Friday.


After Monday's shootings, school authorities set up counseling
centers for students to treat the emotional shock of what
university president Charles Steger called a disaster of
"monumental proportion."


A mass for the dead was celebrated at a local church and a
memorial service was scheduled for Tuesday, to be followed by a
candelight vigil in the evening on the Virginia Tech drill field.


But for students like Tiffany Ottey, it will take quite a while
for all the psychological scars from the ordeal of Norris Hall to
heal.


"I really don't want to go back to campus anytime soon," she
said. "Especially to that building."

