

In 1937, when Max Beckmann was 53 years old and already well-
known, the Nazis who banned his work were forced to remove 590 of
his works from the walls of German museums.


That same year the Nazis had mounted their now-infamous Munich
exhibition of Degenerate Art, a collection of modernist artworks
chaotically hung and accompanied by texts deriding the works. It
had a prime spot for Beckmann, hanging 22 of his paintings.


On the eve of its opening, the painter now widely regarded as one
of the most important artists of the 20th century, fled to
Amsterdam with his wife.


He hoped to travel on to France or the United States but ended up
staying in Amsterdam for 10 years that proved to be some of his
most productive.


Now, Amerstdam's Van Gogh Museum is hosting the first exhibition
focused on Beckmann's Amsterdam years, running through to August
19. Over 100 paintings and drawings show the artists' ambiguous
feelings -- relieved to have escaped Nazi Germany, but frustrated
at being trapped in the Netherlands.


The works on display come from public and private collections and
were brought together with the help of Munich's Pinakothek der
Moderne where the show will run next from September 13 through
January 16, 2008.


The show is unusual for the Van Gogh Museum, which usually
focuses on 19th- century painters and does not have any works by
Beckmann.


However Beckmann "was considerably influenced" by Dutch painter
Vincent van Gogh and "wanted multiplicity after the simplicity of
Van Gogh or Gauguin," according to curator Beatrice von Bormann.


In Amsterdam, Beckmann did not live in poverty as many of the
some 20,000 other German refugees in the Netherlands. Thanks to
his acquaintances in Germany he continued to sell paintings but
his pain over the exile shows through in his work.


"Black plays an increasingly important role, he even had two
palettes: one for black and one for other colours," Von Bormann
said.


Beckmann painted cliches of Dutch life, young girls with
traditional hair styles or farmers in wooden shoes and extremely
serious looking self-portraits. He also continued with his
favorite scenes of night life: circuses, cabarets and bars,
usually sprinkled with eloquent details: in a gypsy caravan a man
climbs a ladder to escape through the roof and cages can be seen
everywhere.


The painter also devotes, from memory, a series to landscapes
that are now inaccessible to him -- the Italian Riviera, the
French Mediterranean coast and even the beach at Ostende in
Belgium.


In 1947 Beckmann finally obtained a visa for the United States
originally turned down in 1940, and once again emigrated. In 1950
he died of a heart attack on a New York side-walk.


Parallel to the Van Gogh Museum show, the Biblical Museum in
Amsterdam has an exhibit called "The Apocalypse of Max Beckmann,"
a series of 27 lithographs from 1942 -- published in limited
edition in Nazi Germany -- based on the last book of the Bible.


The Van Gogh Museum and the Biblical Museum both provide
information on their exhibitions, tickets and opening hours on
their websites. (www.vangoghmuseum.com/beckmann,
www.bijbelmuseum.nl)

