

South Korea called Tuesday for humane treatment for North Korean
refugees as three teenage northerners faced possible repatriation
from Laos after fleeing their hardline communist homeland.


"The government has been doing its best to help North Korean
refugees go wherever they want to go," a foreign ministry
spokesman here told AFP.


"It always supports them to be treated in a humanitarian way."


He refused to comment specifically on the three in Laos aged 12,
14 and 17, whom rights groups say face imprisonment or even death
if sent home.


South Korean group Helping Hands called on Seoul and Washington
to act more boldly to help the children.


"They are upset, frightened and distraught. International
humanitarian law must mean something," said founder Tim Peters.


Japanese non-governmental organisation Life Funds for North
Korean Refugees has said the trio -- caught crossing to Thailand
by Laotian officials after a long journey through China -- could
be executed if sent home.


The group, which interviewed the North Koreans, reported that
Laotian officials had demanded they pay 1,000 dollars in bribes
for their release or face deportation. The Laotian embassy in
Tokyo denied the charges.


The teenagers are Choi Hyok, his sister Choi Hyang and their
travelling companion Choi Hyang-Mi. The brother and sister
reportedly fled to China after losing their parents in the late
1990s, when hundreds of thousands of North Koreans died in a
famine.


They are said to want to go to the United States.


"We have come this far in search of freedom. We are unfortunate
children who may die just because we wanted freedom," wrote Choi
Hyang in an appeal for help released by the Japanese group.


Peters said the alleged demand for bribes was not official
policy, but the action of corrupt individuals. He said the amount
demanded for the three had kept increasing, and even if paid
there was no guarantee they would not be re- arrested as illegal
immigrants.


He told AFP that individuals had the chance to line their pockets
because regional governments failed to honour their obligations
on protecting refugees.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans escape to neighbouring China
and often move on to Mongolia or Southeast Asia to try to secure
safe passage to South Korea.


China returns any refugees it catches as economic migrants, a
policy which has been strongly criticised by rights groups.


South Korean diplomats overseas have also come in for criticism
for what the rights groups say is a tacit policy of discouraging
refugees for fear of offending North Korea.


The number of northerners who had made it to South Korea since
the end of the 1950-53 war topped the 10,000 mark in February.

