

In the Rungis wholesale market in southern Paris -- Europe's
biggest entrepot for fresh produce -- presidential election talk
is dominated by the "work crisis" and the tough measures needed
to reverse France's declining economic fortunes.


"A country is like a business. Sometimes there are steps that
have to be taken that no one likes -- but you have to do them
because otherwise you go under," said Roland Druais, a 56-year-
old fruit and vegetable merchant, stacking boxes of avocados
early Monday morning.


"It's like a few years back when my little company got in trouble
here and we had to lay some people off. It wasn't easy -- but
you've got to do what you've got to do."


Built in 1969 to replace Paris's historic Les Halles market,
Rungis is a sprawling complex of warehouses and lorry parks next
to the A6 motorway. Dawn sees hundreds of workers unloading
cheese, meat and shell-fish brought from points across France for
shops and restaurants in the capital.


This is "La France qui bosse" -- the France that goes to work --
beloved of Nicolas Sarkozy, right-wing favourite in Sunday's
election. Not surprisingly "Sarko's" ideas on rehabilitating the
work ethic go down well here -- though much less positive is the
response to the man himself.


"I'll probably vote for Sarko -- but with no great enthusiasm,"
said cheese- porter Thierry Dumesnil, 40.


"We've become a society of do-nothings. Everyone's on welfare.
It's all very well being 'France -- land of asylum', but ordinary
people end up paying the tab for the immigrants. I can't vote
left. In France, we've tried that. If the Socialists get in
again, it really will be the end of the road."


Florian Sicard, selling wheels of "comte" cheese from eastern
France, said he is hesitating between Sarkozy, 52, and centrist
candidate Francois Bayrou, 55.


"It's not that I find Sarkozy scary -- which some people do --
but I do think he can be a bit extreme. The problem with Bayrou
is that nothing will change with him. He's too soft.


"What's good about Sarko is that when he talks he's clear and
straight down the line. But I don't like the way he supports
Sunday opening for the big supermarkets. That's bad news for us.
For me, it's liberalism taken too far," he said.


Even supporters of the Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, 53,
said that Sarkozy's campaign themes of ending welfare dependency
and encouraging people to work harder are factors in their
choice. Royal has herself spoken of the need for welfare
recipients to give some service to society in return.


"All the ideas are getting mixed up. Sarkozy's got some left-wing
ideas and Segolene's got some right-wing ones. So in the end it
comes down to personality, and I find Segolene more reassuring --
less scary," said Karfalla Sylla, 47, a fruit and vegetable
porter born in Ivory Coast.


"But the welfare problem is really important. Here we keep
getting people looking for a job, but when they're told the pay
they say it's not worth their while. As soon as they start work,
they'd lose all these advantages like free television licences
and free public transport," he said.


"The big problems facing France are the lack of freedom to do
your own thing, the lack of reward for people who take risks, and
an administration that never changes, that blocks everything,"
said Albert Ohayan, who runs the Raphael fruit and vegetable
wholesale business.


"I would vote for Sarkozy, but I can't -- because when he was
interior minister he was the one who put up all the speed cameras
and set the police against ordinary motorists. It's his coercive
side. Giving police all that power is not right.


"What with the rioting in the 'banlieues', he's managed to get
everyone united against the police -- good guys and bad guys
alike," he said.

