

More than 600 business executives and experts will gather in
Singapore this week for a UN-backed meeting to discuss how the
corporate world can help tackle the growing threat of climate
change.


The Global Business Summit for the Environment, to take place
Thursday and Friday, will be the first major international
conference focusing on business and the environment in Asia,
according to the UN Environment Programme (UNEP).


UNEP organised the event with the United Nations Global Compact,
an initiative that brings companies together with UN and other
agencies to support environmental and social principles.


Delegates plan to examine how the private sector, governments and
non-government organisations (NGOs) can cooperate to ensure
development that balances economic, social and environmental
factors, the organisers said.


"The systematic damage and destruction of the world's forests,
freshwaters, fisheries and other economically important
ecosystems are failures of policy and failures of markets to
capture the true value of these nature-based assets," UNEP
executive director Achim Steiner said.


"Some companies now realise that future profits, if not future
viability as businesses... will be based on ensuring the
sustainability of these finite natural resources."


Steiner described climate change as "perhaps the most far-
reaching 'market failure' of them all" and an obvious threat, but
challenged companies to also see it as "a real opportunity to do
business differently."


Companies around the world have been blamed for practices that
have helped to pollute the environment and contributed to climate
changes which experts warn could threaten the survival of animal
and plant species.


A key UN report released this month warned that billions would
face a higher risk of water scarcity and millions more would
likely go hungry as damage to the Earth's weather systems from
greenhouse gases changed rainfall patterns, powered up storms and
boosted the risk of drought, flooding and water stress.


"Environmental responsibility is no longer a choice," said Georg
Kell, executive director of the UN Global Compact.


"Climate change is a global problem that affects everyone.
Corporations, governments, international agencies and NGOs must
work together to address this issue."


Among the organisations to be represented at the Singapore
meeting are the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), World Resources
Institute and the Carbon Disclosure Fund.


Speakers include Kirsi Sormunen, Nokia's vice president of
environmental affairs, Diana Bell, a senior vice president at
Hewlett-Packard, Greenpeace International director Steve Sawyer
and actress and environmental activist Daryl Hannah.


A special session on Friday will be devoted to discussing
solutions to the forest-fire haze that blankets parts of
Southeast Asia each year.


Organisers said delegates will also tackle an emerging trend to
invest in biofuels, solar and wind power, and other environment-
friendly energy sources.


Managing urbanisation, promoting eco-friendly tourism, a global
water crisis, and the use of "green" materials, technology and
furnishings in the building and construction industry also will
be on the agenda.


More than 1.2 billion people, or about one-fifth of the world's
population, lack access to drinking water, the organisers said,
warning that without any action this could rise to 2.3 billion
people by 2023.


A US environmental group has certified the meeting as a "carbon-
free event".


Carbon emissions from the delegates' use of energy, including
from their air travel, will be offset by funding renewable energy
development and reforestation projects in Sri Lanka and Nepal,
organisers said.

