

The United States and South Korea expressed their strong hope
Tuesday that North Korea will start to shut down its nuclear
weapons programme soon despite missing a weekend deadline.


The comments came as South Korea's intelligence service said US
satellites have spotted unusual activity around North Korea's
Yongbyon nuclear reactor, with local news reports saying
Pyongyang may be preparing to turn it off.


Speaking by telephone, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and
Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon also reaffirmed that a banking
dispute that has blocked progress for months can be settled, the
foreign ministry here said.


"Both ministers expressed strong expectations for North Korea to
take the nuclear disarmament measures under the February 13
agreement at an early date ..." a foreign ministry statement
said.


They agreed "to watch the situation for a few more days," an
official said.


The North insists it will begin shutting down and sealing
Yongbyon -- which produces the raw material for plutonium to make
bombs -- and readmit UN atomic inspectors once it has retrieved
25 million dollars in funds frozen in a Macau bank.


The United States, which orchestrated the freezing of the
accounts in 2005 on suspicion of money-laundering and
counterfeiting, says the funds were freed for collection at Banco
Delta Asia (BDA) last week.


But there has been no word on when and how the cash transfer will
be made, and Saturday's deadline for the reactor shutdown was
missed.


Rice and Song said that "the door for settling the BDA problem
remains open to North Korea."


That claim was disputed by fellow nuclear negotiator Russia,
whose Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov charged Monday
that Washington was "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems."


In Seoul, the Dong-A Ilbo newspaper said the US satellite images
"captured unusual movements of people and vehicles around the
cooling tower and parking lot in the Yongbyon nuclear facility."


It said Washington and Seoul believed the activities are likely
to be part of operations to close down the reactor.


South Korea's National Intelligence Service said that it was
aware of the activity but did not say what it may mean. "There
were some unusual movements there and we are now following and
analysing them," a spokesman told AFP.


The six-party talks have dragged on since 2003, but assumed added
urgency after the North tested a nuclear weapon for the first
time last October.


In February Pyongyang agreed to disable its programmes in
exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid as
well as security and diplomatic benefits.


Under the first phase, it was supposed to have sealed Yongbyon by
April 14. In tandem, the United States undertook to try to settle
the row over the Macau accounts.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack rejected Russia's
criticism on the funds as inaccurate and said the United States
and fellow negotiators -- South Korea, China, Japan and Russia --
were ready to give the North some days to act.


Banco Delta Asia said it would challenge a US Treasury decision
which from this week will bar it from doing business with US
banks.


In a statement, BDA said the decision was "politically motivated
since it was based on disputes between the US and North Korea,"
and it had petitioned the Treasury to have the decision
overturned.


South Korea is to send a delegation to economic talks with its
neighbour this week, according to officials quoted by Yonhap news
agency.


The main topic at the talks in Pyongyang will be the North's
request for 400,000 tons of rice to alleviate chronic food
shortages. News reports have said Seoul may link its resumption
of regular annual rice aid to progress in denuclearisation.

