

Witch doctors have "soiled the image of Islam" by prescribing
harmful treatments in the guise of faith healing, according to
Muslim clerics and doctors who gathered in Abu Dhabi to affirm
the healing powers of the Koran.


Islam "is not opposed to reason, science and modern technological
developments," Ali Salem al-Kaabi, the head of Abu Dhabi's Family
Development Foundation said at a conference last week, which drew
doctors and religious clerics from across the Muslim world.


The conference "aims to expose erroneous ideas, correct
misunderstandings and raise awareness about the (dangers) of
sorcery and charlatanism," Kaabi said, warning that "charlatans
seek to defraud the naive and superstitious."


The conference followed several reports in the Belgian media
about faith healing practices of some European Muslim communities
which turned into tragedy, including the story of a Moroccan girl
who died after drinking several litres (quarts) of water mixed
with black cumin oil, which an exorcist had said would purge evil
spirits.


The herbal remedy predates Islam and has been administered in the
Middle East since the time of the Egyptian pharaohs. The Prophet
Mohammed is said to have declared that "black cumin heals every
disease except for death."


Faith healing, particularly in the area of mental health, is
widespread in the Muslim world, even among people in wealthy Gulf
states who can afford world- class medical treatment.


In a bid to prevent future incidents, the conference proposed
establishing institutes across the Muslim world that would train
and certify doctors in both modern medicine and faith healing.


Delegates agreed that the Koran has healing powers, with some
going so far as to claim that the holy book can cure AIDS and
some forms of cancer.


Sheikh Jallul Hajimi, an official in the Algerian ministry of
religious affairs, told AFP he had cured "Europeans suffering
from mental and sexual illnesses that psychologists and
neurologists had failed to treat."


"More than 400 people have converted to Islam after receiving
Koranic medical treatments," added his colleague, Sheikh Abu
Muslim Balhamr.


Many Muslims believe the Koran can cure illness. The most common
treatment consists of drinking water with pieces of paper bearing
Koranic verses dissolved in it.


In what he described as a blending of the longstanding practice
with modern technology, Sharif Shukran, an Algerian biomedical
engineer attending the conference, proposed transforming the
sound of Koranic verses into electromagnetic waves and passing
them through the water instead.


The conference, the first of its kind, comes as part of a larger
movement across the Muslim world aimed at harmonising Islam and
modern medicine.


In December 2006, a top Malaysian university published a report
claiming that the postures used during Muslim prayers benefit the
heart and spine, while increasing the capacity for memory and
attention.


Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said the study affirmed the
power of prayer in a person's life, the New Straits Times
reported in December.


"The study investigates the physiological interactions and
effects of the salat (prayer) postures on the human body,"
Abdullah said.


"Since the majority of our population are Muslims, it is both of
interest and importance that we not only understand the spiritual
benefits of salat, but also ... its biological and medical
effects."


Abdullah, who champions a moderate form of Islam called Islam
Hadhari, has been encouraging Muslims worldwide to give equal
importance to education, science, technology and development
alongside the spiritual aspects of the religion.

