

Hollywood is banking that good things really do come in threes as
it prepares to unleash an unprecedented series of blockbuster
sequels on the summer box-office.


In a rare alignment of the tinseltown stars, three of the most
profitable franchises in history release their long-awaited third
instalments next month: "Pirates of the Caribbean", "Spiderman"
and "Shrek."


The trio of blockbuster follow-ups are part of a broader trend of
summer sequels as Hollywood studios opt for tried and tested
formulas on the basis that "if ain't broke, don't fix it."


"Somebody counted it and said there were 14 sequels this summer,"
Lew Harris, the editor of the respected movies.com website. "This
is absolutely the summer of the sequels."


As well as "Pirates", "Spiderman" and "Shrek", a number of other
successful films of recent years were readying sequels, with a
fifth instalment of the money-spinning Harry Potter based on J.K
Rowling's books heading the field.


George Clooney and Brad Pitt will return for crime-caper "Ocean's
13", while Matt Damon is reprising his role as assassin Jason
Bourne for a third time in "The Bourne Ultimatum."


Other sequels include Bruce Willis action movie "Die Hard 4 (Live
Free and Die Hard), "Fantastic Four", "Evan Almighty" and "Hostel
2".


"The funny thing is that this summer, they (the sequels) are
going to do well," Harris said. "They're all kind of different.
In fact, all of these sequels are going to rule the summer."


Leading the first wave of the sequel-blitz is "Spiderman 3",
which opens in the US on May 4. The two previous films in the
series about the Marvel comic-book hero have already raked in 1.6
billion dollars worldwide since 2002.


Two weeks later, the jolly green ogre that is Dreamworks' "Shrek"
will return, three years after the phenomenal success of "Shrek
2", the third highest- grossing film in US box-office history
behind "Titanic" and "Pirates of the Caribbean 2".


The third film in the "Pirates" series, starring Johnny Depp as
captain Jack Sparrow", opens in the US on May 25. The two
previous films in Disney's "Pirates" series have grossed over 1.6
billion dollars, and Harris is tipping the third to be the grand-
daddy of this year's sequel season.


"My money would be on Pirates," Harris said. "There's something
about Johnny Depp as well. You just mention Depp and people go
crazy. It's a lot of fun."


The trend of sequels reflected the cautious nature of studios as
well as the enduring appeal of characters like Depp's Jack
Sparrow and Spiderman, Harris said. "Studios are more and more
afraid of trying something new," he said.


"The tried and true. In fact, the more familiar things are, the
more people seem to like them. We seem to go more and more that
way in books and music."


Yet the recent success of films like "300" -- a stylized
historical epic about ancient Greece -- proved that rewards
remained on offer for studios willing to take creative risks,
Harris said.


"The studios don't want to take a chance," Harris said. "The
films that they want to rely on are the movies that they think
there's very little chance that they're going to lose money.


"But then you get something like "300" and look what happens. The
different things do quite well."


Gitesh Pandya, an analyst with Boxofficeguru.com, said that while
"Spiderman", "Pirates" and "Shrek" would slug it out as the
biggest box-office films of the year, they would impact each
other's earnings.


"May is going to be the biggest month in box-office history," he
said. "You have three 800-pound gorillas stepping out at the same
time.


"I don't think they're going to cannibalize each other that much.
They're so important and so popular that people are going to take
the time and see each of them."

