

From fish and chips to Mr Bean, Andre Bikey has embraced the
local culture with enthusiasm since joining Premiership newcomers
Reading on loan from Lokomotiv Moscow.


But what the Cameroon defender likes most about life in England
is not feeling the need to carry a gun for his own protection
from racist thugs, as he did while living in the Russian capital.


Bikey has played a key role in helping turn Reading into surprise
candidates for a UEFA Cup place in their first season in
England's top-flight.


Now, the former Espanyol centre back is hoping his performances
will persuade manager Steve Coppell to take up the option of a
permanent 1.5-million-pound deal that would allow him to turn his
back on Moscow for good.


"I still have three years left on my contract with Lokomotiv but
I don't want to go back there," Bikey told AFP. "I'm happy at
Reading and want to stay long- term.


"There's a different mentality living in Russia and it's very
hard to live there being black. I have a gun for protection. You
can get hurt out there. I nearly got badly injured once when
three men followed me but I ran away and got into a taxi.


"Friends of mine have been attacked in the street. It can be a
very frightening place to live."


In contrast, Bikey and his Portuguese wife have settled quickly
in Reading, a fast-growing town an hour to the west of London,
and he feels equally at home on the pitch.


"The Premiership is much more physical than anywhere I have
played before," he said. "You can go in hard on opponents without
giving away a free kick every time you make a tackle.


"The games are much more exciting and every week you are playing
in front of packed stadiums.


"In the past I have not stayed anywhere very long. I played in
Spain for Espanyol for one year and then moved to Portugal for
six months.


"I have played in Russia for the last couple of years but this is
the best football I have played.


"I love the English people and I love their humour. In Russia
people take themselves too seriously but over here you are
encouraged to laugh.


"I have always enjoyed watching English comedy programmes on TV -
Mr Bean is the best. He is a crazy man. I bought the DVD as soon
as I came to Reading and watch it every day after training.


"I love the food too. I had never had fish and chips before I
came but now I eat them all the time.


"Reading feels like home. At the moment I am only on loan but I
would love to stay for good."


Still only 22, Bikey has set his sights on emulating the
achievements of the likes of Didier Drogba, but he very nearly
missed out on the chance to make an impression on Coppell when he
was sent off for head butting an opponent during Reading's pre-
season tour of Sweden, when he was still on trial.


Bikey recalled: "What I did in Sweden was stupid and had it not
happened I would have signed full-time. Thankfully the manager
gave me another chance and hopefully I am rewarding him with my
performances.


"Reading are a great club and at the start of the season we just
wanted to stay in the Premiership. Now we are safe for next
season the objective is to get more.


"It would be fantastic for the club in the first season in the
Premiership to make Europe and that is what we are striving for."


The tough-tackler is also hoping he will soon be flexing his
muscles in the Cameroon national side after being forced to miss
their latest African Nations Cup qualifying games because his
work visa had expired.


"That was unfortunate but there will be other opportunities to
play for my country," he said. "I spoke to the manager and he was
very understanding.


"It has always been my ambition to play for Cameroon and moving
to England has helped raise my profile in the national team.


"We have a lot of players to chose from so you have to be playing
regularly in one of the major leagues to get noticed. That is
extra motivation for me to do well with Reading."

