

Bangladesh's former prime minister Khaleda Zia will go into exile
under pressure from the emergency-ruled country's military-backed
government, national newspapers quoted officials saying Tuesday.


The reports said authorities, who have been waging a major
crackdown on graft in a bid to clean up the country's political
system, had agreed to release Zia's son in exchange for her
departure.


Her son Arafat Rahman Coco was arrested on Sunday as part of an
anti-corruption crackdown, and the reports said he was freed
overnight Monday as part of a deal that would reshape politics in
the South Asian country.


The Star newspaper said Zia, who heads the Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP), "will be leaving the country for Saudi Arabia in a
couple of days."


Zia, who was prime minister until her five-year term ended in
October, has been under virtual house arrest since last week.


"Initially, she will be leaving with a one-month visa to perform
umrah (a pilgrimage) and her permanent residence there will be
finalised upon reaching the kingdom of Saudi Arabia," the report
said, quoting a top government source.


Quoting another highly placed source, the Star said the Saudi
government has agreed to host Khaleda and her family if she left
Bangladesh willingly.


"The message was conveyed to Saudi Arabia through its embassy in
Dhaka that she agreed to leave the country," it quoted the source
as saying.


The report was carried by all major national dailies.


Large numbers of journalists had gathered at Dhaka's main airport
Monday night in anticipation of Zia's departure.


Bangladesh's military-backed interim government took power in
January after President Iajuddin Ahmed declared a state of
emergency and cancelled planned elections following months of
political violence.


At the heart of the political turmoil was Zia's BNP and the
opposition Awami League led by her arch rival Sheikh Hasina
Wajed, whose rival factions paralysed the country with a string
of strikes, blockades and street protests.


Hasina, who is currently on holiday in the United States, has
already been charged with extortion and the murder of four
political activists last October and police have warned she faces
arrest if she returns home.


The reports of Zia's departure come just two weeks after
Bangladesh's powerful army chief called for a clean sweep of the
country's political landscape, saying previous democratic
governments had bred corruption and crime.

