

Nigeria goes into a historic presidential vote on Saturday days
after local elections left more than 20 dead and the Supreme
Court dramatically brought a controversial vice president back
into contention.


The vote for a successor to ex-general Olusegun Obasanjo should
produce the first civilian-to-civilian handover since the African
giant, the world's sixth biggest oil exporter, became independent
in 1960.


But health doubts about Obasanjo's preferred successor, Umaru
Yar'Adua, and the dispute over corruption allegations against
Vice President Atiku Abubakar have all clouded the outcome.


Whoever wins the support of the country's 61 million voters faces
the daunting task of consolidating the democratic gains and
economic reforms pursued by Obasanjo.


Nigeria's largest state, Kano, along with Ondo and Bauchi states
were put under curfews after the votes for governors and local
assemblies last Saturday which sparked violence that killed at
least 21 people.


Amid protests over the vote and before final results were
released, the Nigerian Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the
electoral commission could not disqualify Vice President Atiku
Abubakar from the presidential poll because of corruption
allegations.


Abubakar, who is known as "Atiku", is the candidate of Action
Congress, one of the two main challengers to Obasanjo's Peoples
Democractic Party.


The barring of Atiku is widely seen as Obasanjo's work. The
outgoing president has vowed never to let his deputy to succeed
him.


Atiku, who defected from the ruling PDP to run as candidate for
the opposition Action Congress (AC) is filing lawsuit after
lawsuit in an attempt to be allowed at the last minute to stand.


It is turning into another tumultuous election while ordinary
Nigerians, whose purchasing pwoer is lower today than at
independence, are hoping Saturday's election will end the
corruption that permeates Nigerian society.


In 46 years of self-rule Nigeria has had almost 30 years of
military rule, and the generals vied with one another to see who
could loot the most. Between them they made off with 384 billion
dollars, according to one recent report.


Obasanjo was Africa's first military ruler to voluntarily
surrender power to a civilian administration in 1979. After two
terms as a democratically-elected leader, Obasanjo has steered
his country towards elections, even if democracy remains fragile.


Last year his supporters tried to alter the constitution to allow
him a third term.


The United States and Europe fears mainly for the stability of
the major oil source. Shell, Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Total all
operate here.


Diplomats said that a troubled election could have serious
repercussions for the international economy.


"Nigeria, the United states and the international community all
have a vested interest in ensuring that the country ... becomes a
peaceful, stable democracy", Richard Haas, president of the US
Council on Foreign Relations think tank, said this month.


While Obasanjo may hand over power next month, he is manoeuvring
to retain some political clout.


Obasanjo is backing the ultra-discreet governor of the strictly
Muslim northern state of Katsina, Umaru Yar'Adua.


Opponents of the ruling party accuse the outgoing president of
steering Nigeria towards "a selection, not an election".


To appease the Christian south of the country, Yar'Adua chose as
running mate Goodluck Jonathan, from the oil-producing Bayelsa
state in the south.


Another northerner, Muhammadu Buhari, also from Katsina, is seen
as the only candidate who stands a chance against Yar'Adua.


Buhari, running for the All Nigerian People's Party (ANPP), came
to power in a 1983 coup before being overthrown himself two years
later.

