

Ukraine's highest court on Tuesday stepped into a constitutional
crisis pitting the president against his prime minister in a
power struggle over new elections.


The constitutional court was deliberating on President Viktor
Yushchenko's decision two weeks ago to dissolve parliament, which
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych says is illegal.


The hearing started in the presence of the media, but was due to
continue in closed session.


Western-leaning Yushchenko says parliament should be disbanded
and new elections held because Yanukovych's Russian-backed allies
who dominate the legislature are undermining his rule.


Yanukovych has refused to comply, sparking a major political
stand-off.


The court hearings were also being closely watched by outside
powers, anxious about the political direction of this country of
47 million people located between the European Union and NATO to
the west and Russia to the east.


Mass demonstrations by supporters of the opposing camps in Kiev
followed Yushchenko's order to dissolve parliament, echoing
protests in 2004 known as the Orange Revolution.


Those protests swept Yushchenko to power, overturning an earlier
presidential election that had been found by Western election
observers to be rigged in Yanukovych's favour.


Since the Orange Revolution the president's popularity ratings
have plummeted and Yanukovych has made a come-back as prime
minister, following parliamentary elections last year.


On Monday Yanukovych threatened impeachment proceedings against
Yushchenko if the court rules against the dissolution of
parliament.


Last week, five of the court's 18 judges complained that they had
come under "gross pressure" from the prime minister's
parliamentary majority and demanded protection by bodyguards.


On Monday the SBU security service, regarded as close to the
president, said that it was looking into suspected corruption on
the part of a close relative of one of the judges, but the
prosecutor general's office rejected the suspicions as invalid.


Analysts and the media have said that the only real way out of
the crisis will not be by a court ruling but rather by the two
sides coming to a political compromise.


Yushchenko has suggested postponing the elections necessitated by
parliament's dissolution.


On Tuesday both of the main protagonists in the crisis were
planning foreign trips.


Yanukovych was to meet members of the Parliamentary Assembly of
the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, while Yushchenko was to meet
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso in Brussels
before flying on to Britain.


The constitutional court consists of six judges chosen by the
president, six chosen by parliament and six by the legal
community.


Those who complained of gross pressure last week included three
Yushchenko appointees, one judge appointed by parliament and one
from the legal community.

