

China's government will likely report strong momentum when it
releases key first-quarter economic data Thursday, underlining
the uphill struggle it faces as it tries to apply the brakes,
analysts said.


According to some forecasts, the world's fourth-largest economy
expanded by more than 11 percent in the first three months of
2007 from a year earlier, suggesting cooling measures adopted
last year had a marginal impact, they said.


"The recent rebounds confirm our view that these policies have
had only a temporary effect as a result of their piecemeal
nature," said Sun Mingchun, a Hong Kong-based economist with
Lehman Brothers.


"The government had promised a comprehensive list of policies and
reforms to rebalance the economy, but has so far implemented only
a few, with tweaks here and there."


China's economy gained 10.7 percent in 2006, the fourth straight
year of double- digit economic growth.


Early Thursday, the National Bureau of Statistics will release
economic growth data for the first quarter of the year, including
vital statistics such as investments in fixed assets and retail
sales.


The briefing is a televised event that will be closely monitored
by the markets for clues about the future direction of
policymaking in Beijing.


It is already clear that the economy has picked up steam since
the beginning of the year.


Lehman Brothers recently raised its forecast for first-quarter
economic growth to 10.5 percent from 10.1 percent. Other
forecasts for economic growth in the first three months are as
high as 11.2 percent.


This is in spite of a series of monetary measures that China has
adopted including three interest rate hikes since early 2006,
with the most recent one coming in March.


The government in Beijing has also taken steps to shrink its
trade surplus by reducing tax incentives for exporters and making
it more attractive for companies to import certain products.


Despite the measures to rein in the trade surplus, a bone of
contention that refuses to go away in China's relations with
major foreign economies, little seems to have been achieved so
far.


The surplus in the first three months of 2007 was 46.6 billion
dollars, about double the figure in the same period of 2006,
according to data released last week, with China partly
benefiting from weakness among its neighbors.


"If you look at the other Asian countries, their exports are
actually not that good," said Wang Qian, a Hong Kong-based
economist with JP Chase Bank.


"And at the exact same time, China's exports are really strong.
That has surprised us somewhat," she said.


Looking ahead, the main concern is the continued strong influx of
capital, some of it "hot money" hoping for quick gains if, for
instance, the Chinese currency -- the yuan -- suddenly rises
steeply in value.


"The one major worry is linked with the inflow of foreign
capital," said Fu Chunjiang, a Shanghai-based analyst with
Sinolink Securities.


"Once you lose control of the money supply, it can result in huge
pressure on the economy," he said.


For clues about future policy moves, economists said the most
important figure would be inflation.


The consumer price index, the main gauge of inflation, rose 2.7
percent in February compared with a year ago, just below the
three-percent upper limit set by the central government, the
National Bureau of Statistics reported earlier.


"The central bank is likely to tighten monetary policy further,
given its concerns on commercial loan expansion and higher
inflation," said Goldman Sachs in a research note.


"Furthermore, if loan expansion reaccelerates in the second
quarter, we believe the central bank will likely intensify its
use of administrative measures to curb lending."

