

Call it the great bloodsucker blunder.


In the slimiest -- and perhaps costliest -- case of mistaken
identity in modern biology, hundreds of scientific papers and
years of research could be thrown into doubt, for they may have
been based on experiments carried out on the wrong leech.


Three species of bloodthirsty invertebrate have been passing
themselves off as the right leech, a discovery that adds
powerfully to the shock and confusion.


The evidence of this innocent error, published in a British
scientific review, Proceedings of the Royal Society B, could
provoke a cascade of consequences in hospitals and pharmaceutical
companies around the world, the authors say.


For decades scientists have used what they thought was the Hirudo
medicinalis, or "medicinal leech," to develop dozens of new
compounds and drugs. Some help thin blood and others are
harnessed in the search to fight viral infections, from HIV to
hepatitis C.


The leech can, of course, lay claim to a far more venerable place
in medicine, as a blood-letter.


It fell out of fashion in this role at the end of the 19th
century, but has recently wormed its way back in -- this time as
the means to ease blood pressure in body parts that have been
reattached or traumatized by restorative plastic surgery.


The leeches and the compounds they yield work wonders, but
there's still a problem, according to Mark Siddall, a zoologist
at the American Museum of Natural History who has crawled over
the evidence.


"What has been sold and used as Hirudo medicinalis is usually
another species, Hirudo verbana," explained Siddall, who led an
international team of researchers in examining dozens of
specimens procured from leech farms in Europe and the United
States.


"Indeed, we have never received a true medicinalis from a
commercial supplier," he said in an interview, adding that a few
leeches from a third species, H. orientalis, from Turkey or
Azerbaijan, may also have crept into the mix.


To the naked eye, even a highly trained one, H. medicinalis and
H. verbana seem identical in size and coloration.


Fully grown adults of both species weigh in at about 80 grammes
(three ounces) and measure up to 15 centimetres (six inches) when
fully extended.


"The ones we ship to hospitals are a lot smaller," explained Carl
Peters, assistant manager of Britain-based Biopharm Leeches, one
of the world's two or three largest suppliers of medicinal
bloodsuckers.


That's probably a good thing, because leeches -- equipped with
three mouths and three hundred razor-sharp teeth -- can easily
siphon off in a single sitting six times their body weight in
blood, enough to keep them chubby and happy for half a year.


Leeches deliver built-in anaesthesia, so the incision is
painless.


And because of anti-coagulants in their saliva, bleeding
continues for six to 10 hours, draining off enough blood to fill
half a wine glass.


"In micro-surgery you can suture the two ends of an artery
together because they have thick walls," explained Siddall. "But
veins are thin-walled and very difficult to reattach, which
creates blood congestion and the risk of tissue dying. That's
where leeches work best."


No one has accused leech farms of fobbing off fakes on to the
world market, and Peters is not terribly concerned about the
brouhaha over authenticity, though he does acknowledge that there
could be a problem with the United States.


The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the medical
use of leeches in 2004, specifying though that H. medicinalis is
the only authorized species.


If the US government cracks down, different species from Biopharm
and other suppliers could suddenly become contraband.


That still leaves healthy markets in Europe and Asia, Peters
said. "Koreans more readily accept the use of leeches, whereas in
Britain they are still seen as a last resort."


The real worry stemming from the mislabelling of leeches lies in
a large body of scientific research. "The implications of our
findings are far-reaching," said Siddall.


Development biologists and neurobiologists "are grappling" with
the fact that certain results in their experiments are possibly
due to the fact that they were working -- without knowing it --
with two, or possibly even three, species rather than one.


There are at least 115 bioactive ingredients that have been
isolated from what was sold as H. medicinalis, mainly
anticoagulants, antistasins and protease inhibitors used to block
the reproduction of viruses.


Finding out which of these wonder compounds is attributable to
which species may well be a nightmare.


But there is a silver lining, insisted Siddall. "With three
species rather than one, there may three times as many
interesting compounds to be discovered and harnessed."

