

Malaysia said Tuesday that a proposed 15 billion dollar oil
pipeline across its north was aimed at reducing transport costs
and security risks for tankers plying the piracy-prone Malacca
Strait.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak described the ambitious
project, which would provide an alternate route for the transport
of Middle East oil to the region, as "purely a commercial
initiative".


The pipeline "can lower transport costs and avoid some risk,"
Najib, also defence minister, told reporters at a conference
jointly hosted by Malaysia and the US Pacific Command.


Asked to elaborate on the risks, he said they related "to heavy
traffic in the Strait of Malacca and possible threat of any kind
of attacks to the ships."


The project was revealed last month by the chief minister of
northwestern Kedah state, and involves the construction of two
oil refineries and a 312-kilometre (194-mile) pipeline from Kedah
to northeastern Kelantan state -- providing a transhipment option
from the Indian Ocean to the South China Sea.


Najib said the proposed project had not yet been finalised, with
officials studying three proposals for a project designed to
process and pump oil from the Middle East.


"It is still at the discussion stage," he said.


According to the state Bernama news agency, tankers will offload
crude oil from the Middle East in the coastal town of Yan, Kedah
for refining.


The oil will then be transported through the pipeline across the
north of Malaysia to Bachok on Kelantan's coast facing the South
China Sea, for distribution to countries in the Asian region,
including China.


The pipeline would bypass the 960-kilometre Malacca Strait, which
runs along Malaysia's western coast, and is notoriously
vulnerable to pirate attacks, prompting concerns shipping could
also be a tempting target for terrorists.


Half of the world's oil shipments currently pass through the
strategic Malacca Strait, the busiest seaway in the world.


Kedah chief minister Mahdzir Khalid said last month the project
is a joint venture between the National Iranian Oil Company and
Malaysian firm SKS Development.


He also said two other Malaysian companies would be involved in
the project, expected to cost 50 billion ringgit (14.56 billion
dollars), with site clearing work starting as early as July.

