

North Koreans who have braved hardships and risked jail or
torture to flee their homeland still face a daunting array of
challenges when they finally arrive in South Korea.


For women, says Choi Young-Hee who came south in 2002, the
biggest problem in adapting to their new life is marriage.


Working from her own bitter experience, she set up the North and
South Marriage Information Company to help women find suitable
spouses and protect them from suitors only interested in their
resettlement allowances.


The initiative is timely. Of the 10,000 or so defectors who came
South since the 1950-53 Korean War, thousands have arrived in the
past few years. Many face problems adapting to a bewildering new
country and end up in poverty, with some complaining of
discrimination and social prejudice.


Woman defectors see marriage difficulties as the most vexing
problem while men say their foremost concern is to find stable
jobs.


"Most North Korean women defectors are alone and look for South
Korean husbands. They think marriage is a sure and fast way to
settle in the South," said Choi, noting that more than 80 percent
of the defectors who had arrived in the past decade were women.


And half of these women, whether married before or not, looked
for spouses, she said.


Choi, 39, fled Pyongyang in early 2001 after her husband died but
was soon caught in Mongolia and sent back to North Korea via
China.


On her return, she says, she was jammed into a 36 square metre
(387 square foot) cell with dozens of people.


"It was terrible," she told AFP. "Harsh treatment and only one
meal a day. I don't want to disclose what I have seen."


Soon after being released from detention, she escaped again with
a daughter in February 2002 and two months later walked into the
South Korean embassy in the Mongolian capital of Ulan Bator.


The story of her escape is not as simple as it sounds, said Choi
without elaborating. "Like other defectors, I risked my life to
come here," she said, her eyes shining with tears.


Choi wears a stylish black suit but her hands are rough,
reflecting her tough life since she came South. She gave up hopes
of marriage in favour of getting herself established, selling
food from a street cart.


In November 2005 she opened her matchmaking company.


Since then she has arranged 93 matches through her company and
though she says business is patchy, she expects things to pick up
this year after a law took effect in early March allowing
defectors to divorce spouses left behind in the North.


Divorce was near-impossible in the past because South Korea's
constitution defines the North as part of its territory even
though communication between the two sides is almost non-
existent.


Now defectors will be allowed to seek a divorce if they can prove
that their spouse is not residing in the South.


"The floodgates are open. The new law will spark a marriage boom
among defectors," Choi said.


She says she has about 600 women defectors on her books, who pay
no fees. Men pay 1.8 million won (1,915 dollars) and must provide
identification papers and proof of education and employment.


"I was the victim of fraud. So I maintain tight guidelines in
sorting out males," she said. "Women are looking for healthy and
faithful partners with stable jobs."


North Korean women are generally loyal wives and good mothers,
she said.


For male defectors, employment is the biggest headache.


"For men, the biggest problem is jobs. Many companies here are
reluctant to hire defectors because of prejudice, treating us
like foreigners," said Lee Chul-Min of the Association of North
Korean Defectors.


Everyone who comes South attends a state-run rehabilitation
facility called Hanawon where they learn work-related skills and
pick up lifestyle tips such as how to use the subway.


But defectors say the 10-week job training and education
programme is not enough.


"Defectors are exhausted, mentally and physically, when they land
in South Korea. It will take many years for them to overcome the
shock," Lee said.


Overall only 30 percent of defectors have fulltime jobs. Others
struggle to assimilate or are left helpless after spending the
money they receive from the government on arrival, Lee said.


The lump sum paid to a new arrival was cut to six million won
(6,458 dollars) in February.


However the government increased cash incentives for refugees who
have found jobs. It said it would pay a total of 15 million won
over a three-year period once the workers have been registered on
a payroll for one year.


An additional 13 million won is available to each household for
housing.


"In addition to bigger cash incentives, we want the government to
provide a longer period of job training," Lee said.


Most defectors, for example, cannot use the Internet even though
they now live in one of the world's most wired societies.


"The lack of information and the stress stemming from separation
from their family in the North restrict their social and economic
activities and sometimes exposures them to fraud," Lee said.

