

Most observers at this month's Masters agreed that Tiger Woods
was not quite his usual self.


True that, despite not playing at his very best, he came within a
couple of shots of winning his 13th major and still outplayed top
rivals like Phil Mickelson, Vijay Singh and Ernie Els.


But there was something in his demeanour and body language that
ran counter to the image of the super-confident golfing supremo
that the world has come to expect in the last decade.


Woods was shaky off the tee, indecisive at times with his
approaches and not quite his usual deadly self on the greens.


He insisted that his focus was as sharp as ever, but with the
date for the birth of his first child moving ever closer (early
July), he will undoubtedly have other considerations on his mind.


Asked how he expected life would change for himself and wife
Elin, Woods replied: "Sleepless nights. Obviously our whole
priority is to raise our child. That will be our number one
priority."


Zach Johnson's upset win at Augusta National further alters the
wider picture for Woods.


It means he can no longer achieve a second "Tiger Slam" of
holding all four of golf's major trophies at the same time, (he
already did so in 2000/2001), and the holy grail of a first ever
calendar-year Grand Slam has gone out of the window for another
year.


He still has his main career target - the all-time best 18 majors
of Jack Nicklaus - clearly in front of him, but at just 31, he
can expect to have many more years to come being in contention in
the top tournaments.


Woods has kept his immediate schedule understandably open-ended
and for the moment he is not due to tee up again until the
Players Championship at Ponte Vedra Beach on May 10.


It would then be on to the US Open which from June 14 takes place
at Oakmont outside of Pittsburgh, a course that Woods has never
played on .


The birth of his child is due to take place between the US Open
and the British Open which starts at Carnoustie, Scotland on July
19 and there have been doubts cast on whether he will defend the
title he won last year at Hoylake.


For the moment though, Woods says he is aiming on competing at
both those tournaments plus the final of the four majors, the
USPGA which will be held at Southern Hills outside of Tulsa from
August 9.


"I've played three of the four," he said prior to the Masters
when asked about this year's major venues.


"I still haven't played Oakmont, so that will be fresh for me. I
played Carnoustie in '99 (Open) and I also played, I think, two
Scottish Opens there as well.


"And I played the US Open in Tulsa and also played the Tour
Championship there in '96.


"So three of the four, I love all three venues. Just curious to
see how Oakmont is playing."


In Woods' favour the chasing pack has seldom been so far behind
him.


Mickelson struggled all the way at Augusta and has yet to get
back his full confidence following the last hole collapse that
cost him the US Open title at Winged Foot last year.


Els insists he has totally recovered from the knee reconstruction
surgery he underwent 22 months ago, but his missed cut in the
Masters was his first in a major in over seven years.


Singh has turned 44, Sergio Garcia is treading water and Jim
Furyk is already over-achieving in reaching the world No.2
ranking.


That opens the door for another outsider to take the US Open
title at Oakmont and boosts European hopes of breaking a dire run
of 30 majors without a win.


Ironically the last European to win in a major was Scotland's
Paul Lawrie at the same Carnoustie in July 1999.

