

Brad Hogg is bowling at the peak of his powers, according to
Australia captain Ricky Ponting, who is elated with the left-arm
wrist spinner's form at the World Cup.


Hogg's happy knack of taking important wickets continued against
Sri Lanka on Monday when, after a third wicket stand of 140
between skipper Mahela Jayawardene (72) and Chamara Silva (64),
the former postman removed both men.


The 36-year-old Western Australian also held his nerve after
being attacked early on to finish with an economical two for 35
from his 10 overs.


Hogg, who rose to prominence at the 2003 World Cup after Shane
Warne's shock withdrawal for a doping offence, now stands fifth
in this tournament's bowling averages with 15 wickets at an
average of just over 17 apiece.


This compares well with a haul of 13 at 24 during the whole of
the last edition in southern Africa.


"Right through the middle period I always felt he was going to be
our best wicket-taking option which is why I kept him going,"
Ponting explained after a seven-wicket victory which saw
Australia, the only team with a 100 percent record at this event,
stretch its overall World Cup unbeaten run to 26 games.


"He's bowled beautifully through the tournament, bowling as well
now as he ever has and he's beating a lot of batsmen with his
variations.


"He's taking a lot of wickets with his 'wrong-un' and he's
bowling it very well. More importantly, he's probably thinking
through his bowling a lot better now than he ever has.


"He's using his variations very well and at the right times which
he probably didn't always do."


Hogg provided the spark for a middle-order collapse which saw Sri
Lanka, like Australia already qualified for the semi-finals, lose
four wickets for 16 runs.


"We took those four wickets in next to no time and really slowed
down their run- rate and scoring," Ponting added.


Left-arm quick Nathan Bracken, rested from the nine-wicket
thrashing of minnows Ireland to give Stuart Clark a game, enjoyed
success at both ends of the innings on Monday on his way to an
impressive return of four for 19.


Australians occupy four of the top seven spots in the World Cup
bowling standings.


Fast bowler Glenn McGrath, in his final competition before
retirement, heads the list with 20 wickets at 14.15.


The World Cup's all-time leading wicket-taker is now just three
short of the tournament record of 23 set by Sri Lanka left-arm
seamer Chaminda Vaas, controversially omitted Wednesday, four
years ago.


In second place is express quick Shaun Tait, with 16 wickets at
22.12 while Bracken lies seventh having taken 14 wickets at a
miserly 13 apiece.


Australia, through to the last four before the Sri Lanka match,
end their Super Eights programme against fellow semi-finalists
New Zealand here Friday.

