

Bangladesh's last prime minister Khaleda Zia is poised to go into
exile under pressure from the military-backed government,
officials told media Tuesday, in return for her son's release
from custody.


Reports in all the main papers said authorities, who have been
waging a major crackdown on graft in a bid to clean up the
political system, had agreed to free Zia's son Arafat Rahman Coco
in exchange for her departure.


He was arrested on Sunday as part of the crackdown and the
reports said he was freed overnight in a deal which -- if
confirmed -- would reshape politics in the South Asian country,
which is under emergency rule.


Zia, who was prime minister until her five-year term ended in
October, has been under virtual house arrest since last week.


The Star newspaper said Zia, who heads the Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP), "will be leaving the country for Saudi Arabia in a
couple of days."


"Initially, she will be leaving with a one-month visa to perform
umrah (a pilgrimage) and her permanent residence there will be
finalised upon reaching the kingdom of Saudi Arabia," it said,
quoting a top government source.


Quoting another highly placed source, the Star said the Saudi
government had agreed to host Zia, 61, and her family if she left
Bangladesh willingly.


"The message was conveyed to Saudi Arabia through its embassy in
Dhaka that she agreed to leave the country," it quoted the source
as saying.


Large numbers of journalists gathered at Dhaka's main airport
Monday night in anticipation of Zia's departure.


Bangladesh's military-backed interim government took power in
January after President Iajuddin Ahmed declared a state of
emergency and cancelled planned elections following months of
political violence.


At the heart of the political turmoil was Zia's BNP and the
opposition Awami League led by her arch rival Sheikh Hasina
Wajed, also a former premier.


The two women's respective family dynasties have dominated the
country's politics since independence from Pakistan in 1971, but
they are said to hate each other and earned the nickname "the
battling begums" -- 'begum' being an honorific Muslim title.


Their rival factions have frequently paralysed the country with
strikes, blockades and violent street protests, with each side
apparently viewing political power as a key to making huge
amounts of money.


Hasina, 60, is currently on holiday in the United States and has
already been charged in absentia with extortion and the murder of
four political activists last October.


Authorities have warned she faces arrest if she dares to return
home.


Hasina has dismissed the charges as "fake and false" and has
vowed to fight them, although so far there has been no sign of
her preparing to take the risk of flying home.


Reports of Zia's departure come just two weeks after Bangladesh's
powerful army chief called for a clean sweep of the political
landscape, saying previous democratic governments had bred
corruption and crime.


Emergency rule has been popular among Bangladeshis, who appear to
be in no hurry to return to destructive political infighting.
Nearly half the country's 144 million population lives on less
than a dollar a day.

