

Iran on Tuesday denied it was holding a former FBI agent reported
by the United States to have disappeared on the southern island
of Kish, saying it had no information on his whereabouts.


Washington has said that Robert Levinson, who according to
unconfirmed US reports was making a documentary, disappeared
after travelling to the Gulf resort island in March.


"They (the United States) claim that someone entered Kish.
Iranian and US officials are investigating and following up this
issue," government spokesman Gholam Hossein Elham told reporters.


"Both sides are trying to obtain additional information. There
was no arrest," he said.


Iran has never confirmed that the missing US citizen even entered
its territory although US officials have repeatedly said he had
visited the Islamic republic.


"To the best of our knowledge we have been able to determine that
he went (to Iran) ... and we have not seen any evidence that he
left," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said on Monday.


He said the United States has pressed Iran a third time for
information about Levinson's disappearance. Tehran has said it is
awaiting more information to come from Washington about the case.


The United States and Iran, arch foes for a quarter century, have
no diplomatic relations and any contacts are carried out through
the Swiss embassy in Tehran, which represents US interests.


McCormack revealed that Levinson had met with US consular
officials in Dubai before traveling to nearby Kish. The US
consulate in Dubai is a key post for monitoring developments in
Iran.


The spokesman declined to elaborate on why Levinson went to the
consulate or what he discussed with officials there.


Levinson's disappearance came to light during a crisis sparked by
Iran's seizure of 15 British navy personnel in the Gulf. US
officials have denied any connection between the two incidents
and the Britons have since been released.


Kish island is known in Iran as a relatively liberal resort and
duty-free zone which is also increasingly popular for
watersports. Uniquely for Iran, foreign nationals can stay on the
island for up to two weeks without a visa.

