

Olusegun Obasanjo, 70, is Nigeria's man of contradictions:
military dictator and democratic leader, anti-corruption
campaigner and ultra-rich businessman, elder statesman and would-
be life president.


After two four-year terms in office he will step down in May,
with Nigeria as Africa's biggest oil producer whose 140 million
inhabitants for the most part get by on less than one dollar a
day.


He is, in the words of Nobel prize winner Wole Soyinka, "a man of
fluctuating destinies" who has been "military head of state,
prisoner of another military dictator and occupant of Death Row,
and then civilian president".


Obasanjo fought Biafran secessionists in the Nigerian civil war.
He did not participate in the 1975 coup led by Murtala Mohammed
but supported it and was Mohammed's deputy in the new government.


A year later he became military head of state almost by accident
after the coup that killed Mohammed.


In 1979, Obasanjo handed power over to a civilian administration,
a first in Africa.


Married several times and the father of numerous children,
Obasanjo has had a rags to riches life.


He comes from a poor farming family in the southwestern state of
Ogun. He wanted to become a mechanic but joined the army at the
age of 21. As a young officer during the Biafran war in 1967,
Obasanjo drove a Volkswagen beetle. Today he rides in a convoy
made up of 46 or 47 vehicles, sirens blaring, security detail
hanging on for dear life.


At the head of a party with many rich godfathers, Obasanjo has
nevertheless spearheaded an anti-corruption crusade in recent
years, cleaning up Lagos airport and Nigeria's sea ports.


The origin of his fortune is unknown. But in March 2006 he
boasted of being one of the founding members of Transparency
International.


The anti-graft agencies he has created are often accused of
tracking Obasanjo's opponents with more zeal than his cronies.


After three years in prison from 1995 to 1998, Obasanjo became a
born-again Christian and a democrat.


He was elected, in  a poll marred by fraud in 1999, and re-
elected in similar circumstances four years later.


In 2006 he was tempted by a third term in office. Parliament
threw the project out, but the very attempt to stay in office was
a black mark on Obasanjo's reputation.


He has mediated in a number of crises on the continent,
describing himself as the "big brother come to advise younger
brothers".


Even on good days he is not a charismatic speaker. On bad days he
mutters his way through his speech in a monotone.


Soyinka describes him as a "bullish personality, calculating and
devious yet capable of disarming spontaneity, ... occasionally
self-deprecating yet intolerant of criticism."


Theoretically at the head of a federation, Obasanjo in fact held
all the vital functions himself: president, commander in chief of
the armed forces and, last but not least in the world's sixth
petroleum exporter, oil minister.


Victorious in the Biafran war, Obasanjo has attempted to unify
Nigeria, an ethnic mosaic dominated by three major groups: the
Hausa in the North, the Igbo in the East and the Yoruba, to whom
Obasanjo belongs, in the southwest.


But he failed to prevent thousands of deaths in religious clashes
in 2000 and 2001. Nor could he prevent 12 northern states from
adopting Sharia Islamic law.


Officially, Obasanjo, who normally wears the traditional
embroidered robe and cap, will retire to his poultry farm at the
end of May.


But his appointment as the ruling party's sole "life patron" and
the tenacity he is showing in getting his protege Umaru Yar'Adua
elected president indicate he intends to keep some degree of
influence over politics in Nigeria.

