

As Casablancans headed back to work in Morocco's economic capital
on Monday many questioned why two brothers at the weekend blew
themselves up near the US consulate here but avoided killing any
bystanders in the attack.


"I'm worried without really being (worried). I'm a little afraid
because the suicide bombers don't have clear targets, but at the
same time I feel reassured because they didn't want to kill
anyone. They wanted to spare the civilian population," 28-year-
old teacher Inane Haidar told AFP after dropping her two children
off at the Italian school near the US consulate.


At 9:05 am (GMT) on Saturday, bomber Mohamed Maha, 32, set off
explosives 40 metres (150 feet) from the heavily guarded entrance
to the US consular building in the upscale Casablanca
neighbourhood of Gauthier.


After the explosion, his younger brother Omar ran off along the
Boulevard Moulay Youssef towards the American Language Centre, a
private school, where he blew himself up, just 150 metres from
the first attack.


The two brothers were described by shocked residents in the
working-class Casablancan suburb where they lived as mild-
mannered and quiet. They did not wear beards and police had not
suspected them of being Islamic extremists.


"They don't have the profile of bearded Islamists and one cannot
say they were from Al Qaeda, since that organisation does not
respect human life," Haidar said.


Loubna Benani, the 25-year-old owner of a real estate agency in
the neighbourhood, said the motive for the attack was confusing.


"They didn't want to kill either civilians or police, because
Saturday morning it is rather deserted (here). They could have
found other much more crowded areas or have come another day.
What they wanted is a mystery."


A police official meanwhile said Saturday's incident was "a
desperate act in response to the successful crackdown in recent
weeks by the police and security services to dismantle terrorist
cells".


The police crackdown was intensified last week when five suicide
bombers killed themselves in the port city in as many days.


Those attacks, together with the recent coordinated suicide bomb
attacks in the Algerian capital Algiers, have fueled fears of
increased militant strikes across North Africa.


Mohamed Darif, a professor at the Mohammedia University, insisted
Saturday's fraternal bombers had clearly targeted US interests.


"These suicide bombers did not blow themselves up in a place full
of civilians but in a not very busy area near the United States
general consulate," he told AFP.


The owner of the Beverly cafe, next door to the consulate,
meanwhile said he thought the bombers "wanted to create a feeling
of danger but without wanting to kill people."


In support of his case he said he had heard that one of the men
had told a security guard at the American Language Centre that "I
could kill you but I won't," before moving away and setting off
his explosives.


The 44-year-old cafe owner, who did not want to give his name,
pointed out that there is always a long line of applicants for
United States visas outside the consulate during the week. "Just
imagine the massacre they could have committed," he said.


That the recent Moroccan attacks happened in Casablanca, the
scene of extreme contrasts between rich and poor and between
flamboyant modernism and religious conservatism, is not
surprising, according to one man.


"I just hope that these acts will incite the state to ask itself
what the reasons could be that pushed these people towards death.
It is desperation and poverty," a foundry technician who
identified himself only as Mohamed said.


"I have already been in the huge slum of Sidi Moumen (where most
of the suicide bombers in recent weeks came from). Its
inhabitants are dead people and so it is easy to turn them into
human bombs," he said.

