

Militia members responsible for a wave of killings in East Timor
in 1999 may be granted amnesties in return for confessions,
officials from a commission examining the violence said Tuesday.


Indonesian-East Timor Truth and Friendship Commission members
said the amnesties were an attempt to encourage the perpetrators
to come forward, confess their roles in the unrest and reveal
where victims had been buried.


Violence erupted in East Timor in 1999 around a UN-administered
referendum for independence, which the tiny nation chose
following 24 years of occupation by neighbouring Indonesia.


Militia gangs, which the United Nations says were recruited and
directed by Indonesia's military, killed about 1,400 people and
destroyed much of the infrastructure in the former Portuguese
colony.


Commission member Olandina Cairo said many East Timorese were
open to the amnesty idea after the plan was discussed recently at
public forums.


"The people of East Timor are open to forgiveness, so (the
commission) hopes the rights violators will confess to the
killings and clarify where the bodies were buried," said Cairo in
Kupang, West Timor.


Cairo said most of those involved had been part of the pro-
Indonesian militias, and were now living on the Indonesian side
of Timor island.


A commissioner from Indonesia, Anton Sujaka, said the commission
"may recommend amnesty to rights violators and rehabilitation to
victims."


Sujaka told journalists here the commission -- which aims to
establish the truth about the violence -- was currently verifying
testimony given at its hearings.


The 10-member commission, which Indonesia and East Timor formed
in 2005, plans to collect testimony from 70 people by June after
hearings started in February. Indonesia's president at the time,
BJ Habibie, has given evidence.


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor was widely condemned as a
sham for failing to jail any Indonesians.


The impoverished state held its first presidential vote since
independence on April 9. A run-off vote with two leading
candidates will be held next month.

