

North Korea may be preparing to shut down a reactor which
provides plutonium for nuclear weapons several days after it
missed a deadline to do so under an international disarmament
deal, news reports said Tuesday.


US spy satellites on Monday spotted unusual movement of people
and vehicles around the cooling tower and parking lot at
Yongbyon, South Korea's Dong-A Ilbo newspaper said.


The US and South Korea believe it is likely the activities are
part of operations to close down the reactor, it said.


South Korea's National Intelligence Service confirmed to AFP that
"unusual movements" had been spotted but could not say what they
might mean.


The reports raised hope the reclusive communist state may be
preparing to take the first step in a six-nation February pact,
after an April 14 deadline lapsed due to a continuing dispute
over millions of dollars in frozen bank accounts.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and South Korean Foreign
Minister Song Min-Soon, in a phone conversation early Tuesday,
"expressed strong expectations for North Korea to take the
nuclear disarmament measures under the February 13 agreement at
an early date," a foreign ministry statement said.


The ministers agreed "to watch the situation for a few more
days," a ministry official said.


The North insists it will begin shutting down and sealing
Yongbyon -- which produces the raw material for plutonium -- and
readmit UN atomic inspectors once it has retrieved 25 million
dollars in funds frozen in a Macau bank.


The United States, which orchestrated the freeze on suspicion of
money- laundering and counterfeiting, says the funds were freed
for collection at Banco Delta Asia (BDA) last week.


But there has been no word on when and how the transfer will be
made, although Rice and Song said that "the door for settling the
BDA problem remains open to North Korea."


That claim was disputed by fellow nuclear negotiator Russia,
whose Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov charged Monday
that Washington was "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems."


The six-party talks group the two Koreas, host China, the US,
Russia and Japan. They have dragged on since 2003 but assumed
added urgency after the North tested a nuclear weapon last
October.


In February Pyongyang agreed to disable its nuclear programmes in
exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid as
well as security and diplomatic benefits.


Under the first phase, it was supposed to have sealed Yongbyon by
April 14. In tandem, the United States undertook to try to settle
the bank row.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack rejected Russia's
criticism as inaccurate and said the US and fellow negotiators
were ready to give the North some days to act.


Banco Delta Asia said it would challenge a US Treasury decision
which from this week will bar it from doing business with US
banks.


In a statement it said the decision was "politically motivated
since it was based on disputes between the US and North Korea,"
and it had petitioned the Treasury to have the decision
overturned.


South Korea confirmed it would send a delegation to economic
talks with its neighbour in Pyongyang this week, according to an
official quoted by Yonhap news agency.


A major topic will be the North's request for 400,000 tons of
rice to alleviate chronic food shortages. News reports have said
Seoul may link its resumption of regular annual rice aid to
progress in denuclearisation.


Kim Jung-Tae, of the unification ministry, told a briefing from
which foreign news organisations were barred that the South would
urge speedy implementation of the February 13 agreement.


But there was no mention of whether rice aid would be tied to
progress.

