

Australia's Aboriginal war veterans, complaining of a racist lack
of respect, will next week stage a landmark separate march on the
day the nation honours its soldiers.


Thousands of Aborigines served in the two world wars but were not
recognised as citizens when they returned to Australia and
received none of the benefits given to white veterans, march
organisers said Tuesday.


The protest march will be held on Anzac Day, April 25, the
country's most revered national holiday, and has drawn criticism
from the main veterans group, the Returned and Services League
(RSL).


But organiser Ray Minniecon, an Aboriginal Anglican pastor, said
indigenous veterans of the two world wars had previously been
relegated "to march at the back of the line."


"Two men went off to war under the Australian flag from this
country, two came back under the Australian flag," he told AFP.


"One got all the benefits of a returned soldier, like land, war
pensions. The other one, who didn't get anything, was of our
people."


"They came back under the White Australia policy, so they weren't
citizens until 1967 -- they weren't even recognised even though
they had fought for the country.


"We just want to make sure that their contribution to the war is
acknowledged, first and foremost," he said.


Indigenous citizens of the United States and New Zealand's Maoris
had all belatedly received recognition for their wartime service,
"but our group haven't."


Minniecon said about 500 Aborigines fought in World War I and up
to 5,000 in World War II.


The inaugural "Coloured Diggers" march -- all Australian soldiers
are proudly known as "Diggers" -- will be held in Sydney's
Redfern suburb, the Aboriginal heartland of Australia's biggest
city.


Anzac Day marks the start of the gruelling World War I battle of
Gallipoli in which thousands of Australian and New Zealand Army
Corps (Anzac) soldiers died, but has been broadened to honour all
wartime service.


Minniecon said the march would be timed so that any veterans who
wanted to be part of the mainstream march in the city centre
could participate in the Redfern parade later.


One Aboriginal Vietnam veteran who said he would march in both,
David Williams, told the Sydney Morning Herald Tuesday what life
was like for black soldiers.


"When you're serving things are pretty equal," said the sailor
who served on HMAS Vampire. "It's when you get back that it gets
hard on the black digger."


Williams described how his uncle, who returned from the Korean
War with a gunshot wound, was later taken by his family to a
veterans' hospital where they were turned away.


"They didn't want to know us. The fact that he fought for his
country, nearly died for his country, didn't mean anything to
them."


The national president of the RSL said the veterans' organisation
would prefer that indigenous soldiers take part in the main Anzac
Day parades and services.


"It's unfortunate they don't feel they will get the attention
they need at those services," he said.


Aborigines are now a minority in Australia after more than two
centuries of European settlement, numbering about 470,000 people
out of a total of 20 million.


Many live in squalid outback camps, where unemployment, alcohol
dependency and lawlessness are rife.

