

Local outsider Viva Pataca romped home ahead of an international
field to win the million-dollar Queen Elizabeth II Cup in Hong
Kong Sunday.


Irish jockey Mick Kinane, riding the five-year-old gelding, made
a clean sweep of the day, coaxing Able One to victory in the
meet's other top-flight race, the Champion's Mile, and booking
the four-year-old a place in America's prestigious Breeders' Cup.


Viva Pataca ran most of the two-kilometre turf race ahead of the
two favourites, local horse Vengeance of Rain -- the winner of
last year's QEII -- and Japanese mount Admire Moon, which
finished in second and third place respectively.


Both favourites were running their first races after huge
successes in Dubai's lucrative international races earlier this
month.


Kinane, 47, said afterwards he had felt comfortable throughout
the race.


"I was four lengths ahead of Vengeance of Rain, which is a huge
run," the Irishman said.


"I felt the race was just waking up and he (Viva Pataca) just
slipped out -- I thought he'd gone a little too early to be
honest," Kinane added.


Viva Pataca is trained by Australian racing star John Moore, the
son of the great George Moore who set British racing alight in
the 1960s.


His brother, Gary Moore, was a former Arc de Triomphe winner and
is now a leading figure in French racing.


The horse's owner is Macau casino mogul Stanley Ho.


Moore said he thought Viva Pataca had benefited from not racing
in Dubai, a decision that raised eyebrows at the time.


"This horse races on his nerves a bit," he said after the race.
"I think not going to Dubai helped him keep his nerve. If he had
gone to Dubai, maybe he would not have done as well as he did."


Kinane was a last-minute addition to the Champion's Mile and said
that leading from the front had been no surprise to him.


"We felt there wouldn't be much pace in the race ... we went at
an even tempo," he said, adding, "he quickened well about two
furlongs out ... I thought then that if the rest of them are just
watching me, they might just not be able to get me."


The Queen Elizabeth Cup was first raced in 1975 to commemorate a
visit by the British monarch to the then British colony.


The race went international in the 1980s and is considered among
Hong Kong's premier racing events.

