

Julinho was the unlikely hero as Mozambique edged Zimbabwe 5-4 on
penalties Sunday to qualify for the Castle Cup semi-finals.


A goalless Group A final led to the shootout with each country
converting four of their five mandatory kicks and taking the
clash of neighbours into sudden death.


Defender David Kutyauripo blazed the sixth Zimbabwe kick over and
calm  Julinho beat another substitute, Tafadzwa Dube, with a low
shot to the right  of the goalkeeper.


Wild celebrations greeted success for the Mambas (Snakes) at
Machava Stadium on the outskirts of the Mozambican capital and
the result maintained the unbeaten record of recently appointed
Dutch coach Mart Nooij.


No Mozambican was more relieved by qualification than another
substitute, To, who squandered three chances to settle the
outcome during regulation time before 10,000 animated spectators.


Just six minutes after coming on he burst between two defenders
and beat onrushing goalkeeper Wellington Arubi to the ball well
outside the penalty  area only to see his shot trickle wide.


A defensive blunder offered leading domestic scorer To a chance
to atone just two minutes later and his close-range shot flew
across Arubi only to finish off target.


Chance number three arrived after 73 minutes when a cross eluded
everyone except To at the far post, but his first touch let him
down and a tame shot  was pushed clear by Arubi.


The best chance Zimbabwe had fell just before the arrival of To
as Obadiah Tarumbwa had a point-blank shot acrobatically blocked
by goalkeeper Marcelino after a cross and dummy set the striker
free.


Bino, scorer of both goals when Mozambique beat Seychelles 2-0 in
the semi- finals Saturday, squandered the clearest chance of a
lacklustre opening half by blazing over when scoring seemed
simpler.


Paulin Voavy scored a hat-trick as Madagascar equalled the record
winning margin for a Castle Cup match by overwhelming Seychelles
5-0 in the third place playoff that preceded the final.


The goals of Voavy, only the third player to score a hat-trick in
the 11-year southern Africa championship, were complimented by
strikes from  Claudio Ramiadamanana and Faneva Andriantsima.


Angola, defending champions Zambia and Zimbabwe have won the
annual competition three times each and South Africa once.

