

Afghan President Hamid Karzai admitted at a conference of donors
Sunday that his government lacked the capacity to effectively
deliver the help required to rebuild the country after years of
war.


Widespread corruption, an understrength police force and
burgeoning poppy cultivation were also hampering the country,
Karzai told a conference of nearly 200 people representing more
than 60 countries and organisation.


"We still suffer, as a major difficulty for Afghanistan, from
lack of capacity... a legitimate government (is) unable to
deliver the way other governments are able to deliver," he said.


Karzai asked the donors on which his destitute country depends to
help boost capacity, with one solution the hiring of expertise
from regional countries, including Pakistan, Sri Lanka and India.


Consultants from these countries would likely be cheaper than
those from the West, some of whom earn around 1,000 dollars a
day.


"We need to focus a lot more on the police," the president added,
saying a dramatic increase in the Taliban-led insurgency since
2005 was due to lack of a proper police force especially in the
countryside.


"The reason we suffered last year and the reason we suffered the
year before that is because we were late in focusing attention on
training the police."


The police force is particularly weak in remote areas where
Taliban insurgents have been able to overrun them with little
difficulty before being removed by the security forces.


The Taliban, whose ultra-conservative regime was toppled in a US-
led invasion in late 2001, have made a bloody comeback,
multiplying their attacks on Afghan and foreign targets.


More than 1,000 people have been killed so far this year, after
more than 4,000 lost their lives last year. Most of the dead have
been rebel militants killed by the Afghan and international
security forces.


Karzai said his administration was determined to deal with
corruption, within the government and the non-governmental
organisations that have received some of millions of dollars that
poured into Afghanistan after 2001.


"The attorney general we have today is one that is in a head-on-
clash with the bad guys," he said, referring to chief prosecutor
Abdul Jabar Sabet who has declared a "jihad" or a holy war
against corruption.


Years of conflict in Afghanistan have ruined the education
system, with much of the educated class fleeing the violence,
leaving the country with a civil service that is largely unable
to function properly.


This has in part resulted in a lack of delivery to a population
increasingly frustrated by seeing little change to their lives
despite billions of dollars in international aid.

