

A top State Department official called Sunday for more military
and foreign policy cooperation with India, predicting New Delhi
will become a main US strategic partner in the coming generation.


Nicholas Burns, US undersecretary of state for political affairs,
hailed current US ties with India as "the strongest relationship
the two countries have enjoyed since India's independence in
1947."


The push for stronger ties comes as the United States tries to
forge strategic alliances to counter China's perceived military
and economic ascendancy in Asia.


In his remarks, which appeared in an article in Sunday's
Washington Post newspaper, Burns credited the warm relations to
the work of the two most recent US presidents, Bill Clinton and
George W. Bush.


He praised Bush's "ambitious" efforts in particular, he said,
which have yielded "impressive agreements regarding civilian
nuclear power, trade, science and agriculture with India's
reformist prime minister, Manmohan Singh."


"The pace of progress between Washington and Delhi has been so
rapid, and the potential benefits to American interests so
substantial, that I believe within a generation Americans may
view India as one of our two or three most important strategic
partners," Burns wrote.


But he said the two countries can and should go even further in
their bilateral cooperation, and highlighted two promising areas:
counterterrorism and the military.


"First, India seeks US assistance in helping to counter the wave
of terrorist bombings of the past two years," said Burns.


"The United States is ready. We are both victims of terrorism and
need to work harder to establish the kind of trust required for
effective joint work."


Secondly, said Burns, "We need to build on an already impressive
series of joint military exercises by improving the
interoperability of our armed forces to respond to global
contingencies.


"We also aim to complete a series of defense sales that meet
India's needs and complement our overall defense relationship."


He continued: "Every day I see signs of the strategic benefits
our efforts can bring our two countries. With hard work and
vision, we can realize the potential of a key 21st century
partnership."


His comments came as India and the United States prepare to try
to iron out differences this week over the crucial civilian
nuclear deal amid impatience by Washington over the slow pace of
talks.


Indian Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon will be in Washington
on Monday and Tuesday to hold negotiations with Burns to propel
the dialogue forward.


Talks have stalled mainly over concerns in India that the
agreement will seek to curtail the country's nuclear weapons
program.


Burns noted in the daily that Washington considers the nuclear
deal, which the US Congress approved overwhelmingly in December,
the centerpiece of the warmer relations with New Delhi.


"When fully implemented in 2008, this initiative will permit
American and international companies to begin peaceful civilian
nuclear cooperation with India for the first time in more than a
generation.


"This would bring India out of its self-imposed isolation and
into the international nonproliferation mainstream," Burns wrote.

