

New England coach Peter Moores plans to hold talks with Andrew
Flintoff in a bid to rekindle the missing sparkle in the
Lanchashire star's game.


Flintoff has been judged a spent force by some critics because of
his dip in form and off-field behaviour.


And Moores will have a heart-to-heart chat with the Lancashire
player and believes he can get him performing at a high level
again.


He told Radio Five Live's Sportsweek programme on Sunday: "I will
be speaking to Andrew in the next week to find out where he is
coming from and what helps him play the way he likes.


"You try to get the individual comfortable playing for their
country where they can produce their best.


"Every time I have met Andrew, he is a positive man and he loves
the game. He loves playing for his country.


"We have seen him play some unbelievable innings and bowl some
unbelievable spells for England.


"We have a player who has played some fantastic aggressive
vibrant cricket.


"The key is to get that out of him again and get him enjoying the
game again."


Moores will also be monitoring Marcus Trescothick's progress.


"The fact he is playing again for Somerset is a massive
positive," said Moores.


"He is another one I need to talk to. The key for Marcus is that
he is really comfortable and performing at the right level to get
back into the England team.


"We all know the player he can be, both in one-day and Test match
cricket."


Former Academy director Moores is relishing the challenge that
lies ahead after replacing Duncan Fletcher who stood down after
England's dismal winter and World Cup campaign.


He said: "It is a fantastic job as you have a chance to influence
how your national team are going to go.


"I hope I can use my background in going through the county
system to my advantage.


"There are a few reasons why things haven't quite worked out (for
England). They have always had some injuries.


"There is work to be done but everyone I have spoken to is up for
the challenge of the next few months."

