

Degenerative brain diseases, including Alzheimers, could one day
be treated with drugs that can reverse distressing loss of
memory, according to a study released Sunday.


The very term "memory loss" could be a misnomer in such cases,
suggests the study, published in British journal Nature: that
cherished recollection of a first kiss, seemingly destroyed by
disease, may have simply been rendered inaccessible by obstructed
neural pathways.


In laboratory experiments, mice suffering the type of brain
damage which in humans typically leads to dementia -- robbing
victims of the ability to remember past events or even to
recognize loved ones -- were able to recover memories acquired
during earlier conditioning, according to the study carried out
by researchers at the Massechusetts Institute of Technology.


Following a period of rehabilitation through mental stimulation,
the genetically modified mice successfully performed tasks they
had "forgotten" in the wake of damage inflicted on the specific
neural networks in the brain.


The same regenerative results were also later obtained through a
drug treatment.


While there is no guarantee that the same techniques will work in
humans, the study does raise "the possibility of recovering long-
term memories in patients" ravaged by certain neurological
disorders, according to report lead author Li- Huei Tsai, who
conducted the study with four colleagues.


Neurodegenerative diseases attacks those parts of the brain and
spinal cord that control bodily movement and process information
stored in the form of memories.


When brain cells deteriorate or are destroyed, they are not
replaced. Earlier studies have shown, however, that healthy
neurons stimulated through mental activity or directly by
chemicals can grow stronger and reconfigure themselves.


Tsai's breakthrough in a series of ingenious experiments was to
demonstrate that this same process of remodeling can be
reparative, unlocking memories rendered inaccessible by diseases
causing "significant brain atrophy and neuronal loss."


The researchers began their experiment by selecting genetically
modified mice in which a protein linked to neurodegenerative
disease, called p25, could be switched "on" or "off" chemically.


Before this brain-damaging protein was activated, the mice
demonstrated in two tests that they had learned how to avoid an
electric shock, and how to navigate a maze quickly for a food
reward.


After the animals were subjected to six-weeks of neurological
degeneration, they could no longer perform these tasks. But an
intensive, four-week regimen of "environmental enrichment" --
scientific jargon for lots of toys and play -- led to a sharp
increase in learning ability and memory. Indeed, the mice passed
the tests almost as well as control mice.


The researchers were careful to focus on long-term memories,
thought to be stored in the cortical network, and not recently
learned behavior, which is initially encoded in another part of
the brain, the hippocampus.


Tsai and his colleagues had a hunch as to what was going on at a
molecular level when the memories were retrieved and devised a
further experiment to test it by chemically inhibiting an enzyme
-- histone deacetylase (HDAC) -- known to interfere with gene
transcription.


The results showed the same beneficial effect as the
"environmental enhancement," suggesting that it could be the
basis for a pharmaceutical treatment for memory loss.


"Using small molecules that target HDACs in patients with
dementia could facilitate access to long-terms memories," the
study concludes.

