

India's Gaurav Ghei secured a two-stroke victory in a thrilling
final round at the Pine Valley Beijing Open on Sunday.


Starting the day tied for the lead with three others, Ghei fired
a blemish-free three-under-par 69 with three birdies for a
winning total of 14-under-par 274.


The 38-year-old chalked up his third win in Asia and walked away
with the top prize of 79,250 dollars at the Pine Valley Golf
Resort and Country Club.


"I had a game plan of playing to my strength and that's what I
did today. I told myself to go out and play one hole at a time,"
said Ghei.


"I hit the ball well and made it easy. I didn't make bogey, so it
was just a solid round of golf. I'm extremely happy."


The Indian sank birdies on the fifth, eighth and 13th holes in
the final stretch on Sunday to prove last year's triumph at the
Mercuries Taiwan Masters was no fluke.


"Last year was a great win as it ended an 11-year drought. But I
wanted to win another tournament to prove to myself that my win
last year was no fluke and to do it here in such a short span of
time is very satisfying indeed," he said.


"I put in a lot of hard work and it feels great to win it again,"
said Ghei who had previously won the 1995 Gadgil Western Masters.


Australia's Adam Blyth was pleased with his overall performance
as he took lone second position after two birdies against a lone
bogey for a 71 and finished two strokes behind the winner.


"I played four solid rounds and although I didn't win, I'm quite
pleased with how I did this week," said Blyth.


After five birdies against one bogey and a double bogey,
Thailand's Thaworn Wiratchant shot a 70 and enjoyed his best
finish this season in joint third place alongside compatriot
Chapchai Nirat who carded a 68 for a 277 total.


Chapchai battled flu this week and with an eagle at the par five
eighth hole in the final round, the young Thai was pleased to
finish among the frontrunners.


"I had stomach flu since Tuesday and it has been affecting my
game but I hung in there. I have been playing well and I'm very
proud of that. I am quite surprised that I was consistent and I'm
happy overall," said Chapchai.


Local hero Zhang Lian-wei shot his second straight 69 and
finished in tied 10th place together with compatriot Liang Wen-
chong who carded a 73 for a 281 total. Order of Merit leader
Anton Haig endured a slow finish with a 78 in tied 58th spot.


American star John Daly stumbled to a 75 on the final round as he
claimed tied 29th position.

