

The presidential candidate of Turkey's Islamist-rooted government
on Sunday ruled out withdrawing from the election depite the
army's threat of action to protect the secular regime.


As the country faced an unprecedented political crisis, scores of
thousands of people gathered here for a mass rally to support the
country's secular order and reject the military threat of
intervention.


Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist from the ruling
Justice and Development Party (AKP), narrowly missed being
elected head of state Friday when the opposition boycotted the
parliamentary vote.


The army, which has carried out three coups in the past,
responded with a statement that it was determined to take action
to protect Turkey's secular system.


The government hit back on Saturday, calling the army to order
and rejecting any undemocratic moves to resolve the crisis.


"It is out of the question for me to withdraw my candidacy in any
way," Gul said.


The prospect of Gul becoming head of state has alarmed
secularists who fear the strict separation of state and religion
will be eroded and Islam will creep into all fields of life if he
is elected.


"Turkey is secular and will remain secular," chanted protesters
who filled Istanbul's sprawling Caglayan square, carrying red-
and-white Turkish flags and pictures of the republic's founder,
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.


"Neither Sharia, nor coup d'etat, democratic Turkey," they
chanted.


Television networks estimated their numbers in the hundreds of
thousands.


The Istanbul rally, supported by some 600 non-governmental
organizations, follows a similar demonstration in Ankara on April
14 that attracted up to 1.5 million people, according to some
estimates.


The main opposition Republican People's Party has asked the
Constitutional Court to cancel Friday's presidential vote in
parliament, arguing that the assembly did not have the necessary
quorum.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections set for November
4 could be brought forward. If not, Gul could be elected
president in a third round of voting on May 9, when an an
absolute majority of 276 votes would suffice, compared to the
two-thirds majority of 367 required for the first two rounds.


"We all need to await the decision of the Constitutional Court,"
Gul said. "The court will undoubtedly make the best evaluation
and reach the right decision."


Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan served in now-defunct
Islamist parties before setting up the AKP in 2001.


They say they have disawoved their Islamist roots and are now
committed to secular principles.


But secularists suspect the AKP of harbouring a secret Islamic
agenda, citing its unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery,
restrict alcohol sales and lift a ban on Islamic headscarves in
government offices.


They fear the government will have a free hand to implement
Islamist policies if the party controls the presidency.


The Turkish press on Sunday was unanimous in calling on the
government and the army to resolve their differences
democratically and said early elections were the only way to
prevent the country from plunging into chaos.


"Turkey either giving up on secularism or suspending democracy
are two doomsday scenarios impossible to choose between," the
popular daily Vatan said.


The liberal Milliyet daily said the army's warning had "cast a
shadow on the credibility and respectability of civilian
institutions".


"The latest developments show that the current term of parliament
has reached the end of its natural life. Elections should be held
at once," it added.

