

The Czech Republic, the reigning world silver medallists, made it
two wins out of two in Group B of the world championships with a
confident 6-1 thumping of Austria here Sunday.


The Czechs were in complete command from the start and went into
a 2-0 lead in the opening period as forwards Petr Sykora and
Jaroslav Hlinka scored one apiece.


In the second Czechs eased up on the pressure but scored their
third through defender Petr Caslava, who swept in a rebound from
close range on powerplay, while Raimund Divis clawed one back for
Austria.


Blueliner Michal Barinka made it 4-1 for Czech Republic 4:07 into
the third period slapping in from the left face-off circle, while
Hlinka scored his second goal at 48:24.


Jan Marek, who was part of the Magnitogorsk squad who won the
Russian league earlier this year, wrapped up the goalfest at
55:07 with his powerplay strike.


Later on Sunday the United States handed Belarus a one-hour
masterclass, beating the former Soviet republic 5-1.


Los Angeles Kings' defender Jack Johnsson, St Louis Blues forward
Lee Stempniak and Chad Larose of Carolina Hurricanes were all on
target for the US team in the first period to give their side a
commanding 3-0 lead.


Chris Clark of Washington Capitals scored 4:30 into the second,
while Stempniak netted his second of the match with five minutes
remaining before the second intermission.


Oleg Antonenko reduced the arrears in the third period.


In the Group D match Finland, who won world bronze at Riga last
year, easily outclassed Denmark 6-2.


Minnesota Wild rear guard Petteri Nummelin netted the opening
goal 7:36 into the match, when Finns were on a two-man powerplay.


But Denmark levelled five minutes later through Jesper Damgaard,
who scored from Kim Staal's pass whem Denmark also had a two-man
advantage.


However, Mikko Koivu, who is also playing with Minnesota, lifted
Finland 2-1 up with a shorthanded goal at 14:09 on a breakaway,
while Nummelin scored his second powerplay goal of the match with
1:12 remaining in the first period.


In the remaining time Florida Panthers striker Ville Peltonen,
Aki-Petteri Berg and Jukka Hentunen added one apiece to secure
Finland's well-deserved victory, while Denmark's Christoffer
Kjaergaard finalised the scoring with 5:17 remaining.


The hosts Russia were trailing 1-0 against former compatriots
Ukraine after blueliner Serhii Klymentiev scored his powerplay
goal four minutes into the match.


But Kazan forwards Alexei Morozov and Sergei Zinoviev replied
with their powerplay goals to lift Russia 2-1 up before the first
break.


Kazan defenders Ilya Nikulin and Vitaly Proshkin also scored in
the second period, while Morozov netted his second to give the
hosts a 5-1 lead.


In the third Alexander Radulov scored on powerplay, while Morozov
recorded the first hat-trick of the championship. Alexander
Frolov made it 8-1 with 3:32 remaining to keep Russia on top of
the Group D table.

