

Turkish newspapers on Sunday unanimously urged the Islamist-
rooted government and the army to cool down and end their tense
standoff over secularism to protect democracy and stability.


"Do not ruin this country," read a banner headline in the popular
daily Aksam.


"No one can assume the responsibility of taking this country back
for decades just for the sake of settling a score," the paper
said in a front-page editorial, adding that "a grave danger
awaits Turkey" if the two cannot reach a democratic
understanding.


The dispute that brought Turkey to the brink of crisis erupted
after Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, the government's candidate
for the presidency, narrowly missed being elected in a first
round of voting in parliament on Friday.


The prospect of the former Islamist becoming head of state
alarmed secularists, who mistrust the governing Justice and
Development Party (AKP) and fear this will strengthen their hand
to increasingly introduce Islam into all fields of life and erode
the strict separation of state and religion.


In a stiff statement issued hours after Friday's vote, the army,
which has carried out three coups in the past, said it was
determined to defend the secular order against what it saw as
government failure to curb growing Islamist influence.


The government lashed back on Saturday, calling the armed forces
to order.


"No to a coup," said the front page of the mass-circulation daily
Sabah, echoing a feeling shared by many newspapers.


"Secularism is, of course, one of the pillars of (Turkish)
society, but so is democracy," one commentator wrote. "Today,
democracy has been shot in the leg in the name of protecting
secularism."


The popular daily Vatan said: "Turkey either giving up on
secularism or suspending democracy are two doomsday scenarios
impossible to choose between."


Many urged the government to call early elections at once.


"The army statement has indubitably cast a shadow on the
credibility and respectability of civilian institutions," the
liberal Milliyet said in a front- page editorial.


"Unfortunately, such shadows cloud the democratic process,
prevent our fragile democracy from becoming stronger and
adversely affect how Turkey is perceived abroad."


It said: "The latest developments show that the current term of
parliament has reached the end of its natural life. Elections
should be held at once."


Vatan said early elections were the only way to prevent the
country from plunging into chaos.


"Otherwise, Turkey will become very tense, (social) divisions
will sharpen and the faultlines created by hate and fear will
become deeper," it said.

