

The body of Bob Woolmer, the murdered coach of Pakistan's cricket
team, arrived in South Africa on Sunday morning, six weeks after
his body was discovered in a Jamaican hotel room.


A casket bearing Woolmer's embalmed body arrived at the Cape Town
International Airport shortly before 10:00 am (0800 GMT) on a
South African Airways Flight from London.


An AFP photographer saw a wooden box wrapped in plastic sheeting
being offloaded from the Boeing 747 on the apron and taken with a
police escort to the cargo section of the airport. From there it
was collected by a van from the Doves funeral group.


Doves Western Cape general manager Theo Rix confirmed the box
contained Woolmer's remains.


The body would be kept at a mortuary while his family makes
funeral arrangements.


"We are meeting the family tomorrow morning to make the final
arrangements," Rix told AFP.


Woolmer's widow, Gill, who lives in Cape Town's Pinelands
neighbourhood, has previously said her English-born husband's
cremation ceremony would be a private family affair.


A public memorial service for the former South African coach was
held in the city earlier this month.


Woolmer, 58, was found dead in his Kingston hotel room on March
18, the day after Pakistan crashed out of the cricket World Cup
in an upset loss to Ireland.


His body was held in legal limbo for weeks after an autopsy
indicated the former England Test player had been strangled, but
investigators have yet to make any arrests.


The Kingston coroner in charge of the case ruled that Woolmer's
body could not be released until after an inquest that had been
scheduled to begin on April 23 was completed.


But the inquest was cancelled following concerns of a lack of
police resources as a Cricket World Cup semi-final game was to be
played the following day, police said.


Woolmer's body was then ordered to be released to his family.


His death led to a fevered round of speculation as to the motive
for the murder. The most common theory is that his killing was
linked to match-fixing and illegal betting in cricket.


Some 30 police investigators are working full-time on the Woolmer
case and more than 100 witness statements have been taken.

