

A raid on a suspected suicide bombing cell in eastern Afghanistan
Sunday left four militants and two civilians dead, the coalition
said, as protesting locals claimed only civilians were killed.


A woman and a teenager were killed in a firefight that erupted
when troops raided a compound in the eastern province of
Nangarhar after "credible information" it was planning suicide
car bombings, the US-led coalition said.


"During the operation, coalition forces received small arms fire
from several militants as they attempted to enter the compound.
Coalition forces returned fire, killing four militants," the
coalition said in a statement.


"An adult woman and a teenager were also killed in the crossfire
between militants and coalition forces," it said.


The incident was in the Bati Kot area along the main highway to
the Pakistan border, where US Marines were accused of opening
fire on civilians after a March 4 ambush that killed about a
dozen people.


After Sunday's raid hundreds of people demonstrated on the
highway, blocking it for several hours, saying the dead were all
civilians and the government must call the coalition to account
for its actions.


The demonstrators were carrying the bodies of some of the dead,
witnesses from the area told AFP.


The coalition, which helped topple the Taliban government in 2001
and is now focused on counter-terrorism, said it was saddened by
the loss of civilian lives.


"It is extremely unfortunate that militants put others' lives in
danger by hiding among their families," spokesman Army Major
Chris Belcher said.


The Marine Corps special operations unit that was involved in the
March 4 ambush was ordered out of Afghanistan following the
incident.


Twelve Afghans were killed, including a four-year-old girl and a
one-year-old boy, according to a draft report by the Afghanistan
Independent Human Rights Commission obtained by the Washington
Post.


The commission accused the Marines of using "excessive force,"
the newspaper reported.


The growing Taliban insurgency is ratcheting up civilian
casualties with more than 100 killed this year, according to an
AFP count, most of them in Taliban attacks such as suicide
bombings.

