

Barcelona coach Frank Rijkaard admitted on Sunday that he might
have to curb some of Lionel Messi's inspired and mesmerising runs
in order to save him from further injuries.


Three Levante players were booked for fouls on the Argentine
teenage talent during the second half of Barcelona's 1-0 win over
the struggling side from Valencia.


One of the trio of trippers, Alexis Suarez, was by common consent
among Spanish pundits lucky to not be sent off after brutally
hacking down Messi in injury time.


"He (Messi) is a player that's a pleasure to watch but we may
have to think about altering some of the things he does to avoid
the fouls he's suffering when he makes some of his individual
plays," admitted Rijkaard.


Amazingly, Messi does not turning 20 until June 24.


The Argentine international has already suffered two injuries
this season including breaking a bone in his foot in November
which kept him out of action for three months.


"The only way to stop him is to foul him but I am not going to
stoop to suggesting something so unsporting to my players," said
Getafe coach Bernd Schuster in the wake of Barcelona's 5-2 win in
the Spanish Cup two weeks ago.


On that occasion, Messi scored one goal which was reminiscent of
Diego maradona's famous strike against England in the 1986 World
Cup, going more than half the length of the field and around four
defenders before scoring.


However, despite Schuster's admiration and ethics, there is the
widespread suspicion that some other Spanish first division
coaches might not have the same standards as the German who
himself suffered from some suspect tactics during his own
brilliant playing career.


Apart from Messi performing some of his now-commonplace miracles,
Rijkaard was left with some mixed feelings after Sunday's narrow
win which keeps them at the top of the Spanish first division by
one point.


Barcelona are also on course for their third successive La Liga
title.


"I'm not satisfied with the way we played but I'm at least happy
with the result," reflected Rijkaard.


Barcelona have scored only twice in their last four league games.


"But the important thing is that we've created the opportunities
to score although the finishing hasn't always been the way I
would have liked," said the Dutch coach.


"We had plenty of possession of the ball and also plenty of
opportunities despite the scoreline only saying 1-0 but failing
to make the most of your opportunities is also part of football.


"At least in the second half we worked hard as a team," added
Rijkaard, looking for a silver lining in the clouds that continue
to hang over Barcelona after some of their recent lack-lustre
performances.

