

Home team Desafio Espanol go into the second phase of the Louis
Vuitton Cup which starts here Sunday ecstatic at having landed
the biggest scalp of all - that of BMW Oracle.


The cherished win of the multi-million dollar backed American
challenger on Saturday lifted the Spaniards up into fourth behind
Oracle, Luna Rossa and Emirates Team New Zealand.


The Prada-backed Luna Rossa boat was another of the big winners
on the final day of the first round robin stage on Saturday,
beating fellow Italians Mascalzone Latino and then Desafio
Espanol to go two points behind Oracle.


Desafio Espanol has put herself in a prime position to go through
to the Louis Vuitton semi-finals with helmsman Karol Jablonski
reflecting on the significance of that Oracle win.


"We feel that we have achieved something that we have been
dreaming of. It is what we have worked hard for, for more than
two years," he said.


"Knowing that we have become competitive in the race against the
top teams is to see the fruits of the team work; not just the
team on the water won this race, it is all the guys - the shore
team, the sail makers, everybody.


"Suddenly against BMW we had them close, we handled the pressure,
and did good manoeuvres - that is the biggest game. We know we
are in an excellent position now but we still have a long way to
go."


Oracle soon bounced backl from that surprise reverse with a final
round robin stage one race victory over arch rivals Team New
Zealand who have a date with Mascalzone Latino on Sunday.


Oracle will be strongly fancied to see off debutants United
Internet Team Germany with Luna Rossa likewise wearing the
favourite's tag against China team.


And a tight battle is in prospect between Victory Challenge and
the high achieving South African first timers Team Shosholoza who
are placed seventh above the struggling French boat Areva
Challenge.


At the end of this second round robin stage which features longer
races the fleet will be reduced to four who will go on to the
semi-finals with the final scheduled to start on June 1.


The Louis Vuitton winner earns the right to take on Swiss
defender Alinghi in the best of nine match series for the 32nd
America's Cup starting on June 23.

