

Malians on Sunday began voting in presidential elections expected
to hand the incumbent a second five-year term and boost the west
African country's democratic credentials.


Some 19,000 polling stations in this vast west African country
lying on the edge of the Sahara desert opened around 8:00 am
(0800 GMT) and are to close 10 hours later.


Amadou Toumani Toure, a former coup leader who won democratic
acclaim after handing power to civilian rule following the
military takeover in the early 1990s, is seeking a new term as an
independent candidate.


After retiring from the army, he stood for elections and won the
2002 vote. This time around he enjoys the backing of two large
coalitions and a myriad of smaller parties.


The former general ousted dictator Moussa Traore in 1991, and
installed a multi- party system before handing over power to
civilians, in a rare transition of power in the region.


He faces seven other aspirants, the most credible being key
opposition figure Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, a former prime minister
and head of the national assembly.


Keita, who came third in the first round of the 2002 polls, is
part of a coalition that is fielding three other candidates in
Sunday's vote.


The four men have signed an electoral pact for the second round,
but many observers believe this is risky given the high chance
Toure will win on Sunday.


Initial turnout of voters appeared higher than in previous rounds
of elections in several parts of the capital.


"This year we have lots of people in the morning, much more than
is usual," Kassim Taboure, a returning officer at one polling
station in Bamako told AFP.


Observers had however expressed fears that Sunday's election in
the former French colony could be marked by voter apathy after
fewer than two-thirds of the approximately  6.8 million potential
voters bothered to collect their polling identification cards.


In the last elections in 2002 and 1997, voter turnout fell under
25 percent.


More than 1,000 international observers are expected to witness
Sunday's vote.


Final results are expected on Wednesday or Thursday.

