

Italian Danilo Di Luca of the Liquigas team atoned for some
recent near misses by winning the prestigious Liege-Bastogne-
Liege one-day classic held over 262km here Sunday.


Di Luca came over the finish line alone in just over 6hr 23min,
with last year's winner Alejandro Valverde of Caisse d'Epargne
finishing second ahead of Luxemburg's Frank Schleck.


World champion and former two-time winner Paolo Bettini of Quick
Step finished fourth ahead of another former champion, Italian
compatriot Davide Rebellin of Gerolsteiner.


It is the first time Di Luca, 31, has won the oldest classic in
existence, which was first held in 1892. Having previously won
the Amstel Gold Race and Fleche Wallonne, it means he has now won
all three 'Ardennes classics'.


Yet it was 27-year-old Schleck who provided the spur for the
Italian, who showed his form by finishing third at Amstel and
Fleche in the past fortnight.


Schleck made the decisive move in the finale of the race, however
the CSC all- rounder's attack, with four kilometres to go, on the
descent leading to the final climb at Ans was soon followed by Di
Luca.


The pair soon opened up a 10-sec gap on a star-packed group of
around 10 riders, who ultimately waited too long before deciding
to counter attack.


Dutch ace Thomas Dekker made a late bid to catch the pair, then
Spanish ace Valverde pulled away from the group on the steady
climb towards the finish line. Both failed to close the gap
significantly.


As Di Luca rounded the final bend leading to the finish, Valverde
managed to pull ahead of a tiring Schleck, but after 262km of
racing over 12 steep climbs the Spaniard simply had nothing left
to offer.


Di Luca came over the finish line swinging his arms in triumph,
thus becoming the sixth Italian in the past decade to win Liege.


Despite the summer-like temperatures, a four-man group including
Remy Di Gregorio, and Unai Etxebarria broke free of the peloton
within the first eight kilometres and went on to build a lead of
18 minutes.


Up and coming Frenchman Di Gregorio, perhaps spurred on by the
media labelling him their next Richard Virenque, and Etxebarria
were on their own when they were finally caught with 28 km to the
finish.


As the big favourites began watching for any sneaky moves, Amstel
Gold Race winner Stefan Schumacher went off on a solo attack.


It was only in the final six kilometres that the German lost all
hope of success, his daring bid coming to an end early on the
climb through the mainly Italian neighbourhood of Saint Nicolas.


His collapse signalled the beginning of hostilities from the 40
riders in the leading group, with Damiano Cunego and Bettini
launching futile attacks before Schleck, then Di Luca, pulled off
the front.

