

A French woman freed by the Taliban after 24 days in captivity
flew out of Afghanistan overnight after a tearful appeal for the
release of her four male colleagues, the French embassy said
Sunday.


The aid worker was freed in the southern province of Kandahar on
Saturday with a message from her captors demanding the withdrawal
of France's troops in the NATO-led International Security
Assistance Force.


"She went back to France during the night," the embassy in Kabul
told AFP, adding the matter had been treated with "due
discretion."


It would not release details of where the woman, Celine Cordelier
and aged between 20 and 30, had flown to or who had transported
her.


Cordelier was captured April 3 in the southwestern province of
Nimroz with another French volunteer, Eric Damfreville, and three
Afghans -- all employees of non-government organisation Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children).


Hours after her release, still distraught, she faced the world
media at the embassy in Kabul to deliver the message from the
Taliban, which styles itself the Islamic Emirate.


"Approach this message for the entire world, especially Europe:
how the innocent people have been killed," she read in a barely
audible voice, her head covered in a large, black shawl.


"Celine, now we want from the French to leave our country, it is
our right," said the letter, which was written in muddled
English.


It added, "there is propaganda in West countries that mujahedin
of Islamic Emirate have no respect for women rights, but you have
seen practically our mujahedin how modesty behaviour they had."


The Taliban reiterated separately, in a statement on its website
Saturday, that it wanted France's 1,000 troops in Afghanistan to
leave, or a response from the government about an "exchange of
prisoners."


It said it would give authorities a week to respond to the
demands as it understood the country was busy with the May 6
presidential elections.


The aid workers were captured about a fortnight after an Italian
journalist was freed by militants in exchange for five Taliban
prisoners, a deal that was widely criticised and which the
government vowed would never be repeated.


The rebels beheaded the Italian's Afghan driver and Afghan
interpreter.


After thanking the Taliban for releasing her and treating her
with respect, Cordelier made an emotional plea for the freedom of
her colleagues.


"Eric came, like me, to Afghanistan as a friend. Hashim, Rasoul
and Azrat are Afghans. They are Muslims, they are their brothers.
They have children who are waiting for them," she said.


"I have told them before leaving that my freedom is nothing
without theirs. Release them."


Terre d'Enfance said Saturday it was relieved Cordelier had been
freed but called on the kidnappers to spare the lives of the men,
and on the French and Afghan authorities to do all it could for
their release.


The group operatees only one project in Afghanistan -- a small
children's programme in the Nimroz provincial capital Zaranj, on
the border with Iran.


French President Jacques Chirac said: "Everyone must now redouble
efforts to obtain (the release) of the other hostages with the
greatest discretion."


The extremist Taliban, in government between 1996 and 2001, has
beheaded several Afghan hostages as part of an insurgency that is
steadily growing and made large swathes of the country no-go
areas for foreigners.


It has killed some Indian and Turkish captives and claimed
responsibility for the killing of a British hostage in 2005.

