

The Turkish army, which on Friday threatened action to protect
the country's secularist system, regularly tops opinion polls as
the country's most respected institution.


After toppling four governments in as many decades, most recently
ten years ago, the military also remains a potent political force
that many outside Turkey -- particularly in the European Union --
fail to grasp.


It is also NATO's second biggest army after the United States,
with half a million soldiers battle-hardened from two decades of
fighting a Kurdish insurgency in southeast Turkey.


It staged two old-fashioned coups d'etat in 1960 and 1980, but
such is its influence that in 1971 and 1997 it managed to topple
the government by "coups by communique."


In 1997, a list of "recommendations" came in the form of an
ultimatum that was so strong that it toppled Turkey's first
Islamist government, led by Necmettin Erbakan.


Its latest intervention, Friday's "midnight memorandum", reminded
the government of Recep Tayyip Erdogan that the army had not only
moral, but also legal responsibilities to defend the "secular,
democratic and social character" of the Turkish Republic.


But the government hit back and sharply called the military to
order.


"It is inconceivable in a democratic state based on the rule of
law for the general staff ... to speak out against the
government," said Justice Minister Cemil Cicek, the government
spokesman.


The army top brass has seen its influence wane over recent years
under reforms readying the country for possible membership of the
European Union.


But until 2003, the Turkish army was unique in the West in
maintaining a major political role.


Its top generals not only sat on but also ran the National
Security Council that shaped the country's foreign and domestic
policy.


That role was set out in Turkey's current 1982 constitution,
dictated by the military junta that seized power in 1980 and
overwhelmingly approved by plebiscite in 1983.


The constitution was amended in July 2003 as part of reforms to
bring Turkey in line with EU norms and the all-powerful NSC of
old became a civilian-dominated think tank.


Necmettin Erbakan, the prime minister who was toppled in 1997 and
whose party was banned for anti-secular activities in 1998, was
the political mentor of Erdogan who says he has renounced his
Islamist past.


Political Islam is anathema to Turkish officers, whose education
in military schools, colleges and academies is dominated by
Kemalist ideology, based on the principles set forth by Mustafa
Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the modern, secular republic.


They are taught to protect the republic and trained not only in
the art of war, but also in dancing and etiquette, as befalls the
elite of the young republic Turkey was after its founding in 1923
on the ashes of the Ottoman Empire and a costly war of
independence.


Although its tradition of meddling in politics is beginning to
rankle in contemporary Turkey, for a large majority of ordinary
Turks, the army is synonymous with respectability and serving in
it -- as every Turkish male must after the age of 18 -- is a
"sacred duty."


Opinion surveys unerringly have the military as champions of
probity, compared to a political class perceived as stained with
nepotism, corruption and cronyism.


The reality may be less squeaky clean but the army does its best
to maintain its image and last year a court martial jailed a
former commander-in-chief of the Navy for corruption.

