

A United Nations fact-finding mission to Kosovo found "multiple
omissions" in the implementation of UN administration of the
southern Serbian province, Russia's foreign ministry said Sunday.


"The mission discovered many omissions," the ministry said in a
statement, a day after UN officials announced that the mission
had completed its work ahead of a UN security Council debate over
the future status for the province.


The mission "confirmed that, despite relative progress in the
socio-economic sphere, the implementation of key clauses in
resolution 1244 and international standards in Kosovo cannot be
said to be satisfactory," the statement said.


UN Security Council resolution 1244, which was passed in 1999,
defines the legal status of Kosovo as a UN protectorate -- a
status that is now the subject of heated debate among
international powers.


The Russian foreign ministry said that a plan for the future
status of Kosovo compiled by UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari
contradicted international law by threatening the sovereignty of
Serbia.


The plan "cannot be the platform for a final decision in the UN
Security Council since at its basis there is a limit on
sovereignty that contradicts international law, including the UN
Charter," the ministry said.


Implementation of the plan "would not only create a clear
precedent in international practice, but would also be fraught
with unpredictable negative consequences for regional and
international stability."


The Ahtisaari plan, drafted after he led a year of mostly
fruitless talks between Belgrade and Pristina, would grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence, including its own
constitution, flag and anthem.


Kosovo has been under United Nations administration since 1999,
after NATO bombing helped to drive out Serbian forces who were
waging a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanians.


Ahtisaari's blueprint, which must be approved by the Security
Council, has been backed by the United States, the European
Union, and leaders of ethnic Albanians who comprise around 90
percent of Kosovo's two million people.


However Serbia, which sees the province as its historic heartland
and has won support from veto-wielding Council member Russia, has
rejected his proposal as a violation of its territorial
integrity.

