

Spain's Rafael Nadal overpowered Guillermo Canas 6-3, 6-4 on
Sunday to win the Barcelona Open for a record-equalling third
time and extend his clay-court winning streak to 72 matches.


The two-time Roland Garros champion kept the Real club trophy
safely in home hands for the fifth year in a row, and became only
the second man after Swede Mats Wilander (1982-1984) to win three
straight editions of the tournament.


The 20-year-old, who remained a perfect 15-0 in clay court finals
after collecting his 20th career title, has now defended his
first two clay-court trophies from last season with the Rome
Masters starting in a week his next objective.


Canas, the 12th-seeded battle-hardened veteran back on form after
serving out a doping ban, rallied briefly in the last two games
of the one-hour, 40-minute march for Nadal, saving three match
points before going down.


It was a third defeat against Nadal for the 29-year-old
Argentinian who came to the court with a 21-4 record this season,
a title in Brazil and a final a month ago in Miami.


But his pedigree counted for little as Nadal continued his streak
with one break per set enough to see him through.


"It's great to win again at home," said Nadal. "This streak is
not a normal thing, and I know it will end some day. But I'm only
thinking about playing each match well.


"I'm very happy after winning here three times at my club," said
Nadal. "Willy (Canas) is one of the best players in the world on
clay, and he's having a fantastic start to the season."


Canas joked: "Congratulations to Rafa for this season.. and the
previous one, and the one before that."


Victory marked his third 2007 trophy after Masters sweeps at
Indian Wells and Monte Carlo where he beat Roger Federer for the
fifth consecutive time on clay.


Canas got the Swiss player's number in March, defeating him at
Indian Wells as Miami.


Nadal moved ahead of Djokovic on 27 match wins, the most this
season on the ATP.


The Spaniard last lost on clay in April, 2005, against Russian
Igor Andreev in the Valencia quarter-finals. Nadal stands 16-1 in
Barcelona, his only loss coming to countryman Alex Corretja in
the 2003 second round.

