

Former Croatian prime minister Ivica Racan, known for ending the
country's international isolation and setting it on the path to
EU membership, died Sunday at the age of 63, his party said.


Racan, who served as prime minister between 2000 and late 2003,
died at 3:05 am (0105 GMT) after a long battle with cancer, the
Social Democratic Party (SDP) said in a statement.


President Stipe Mesic described him as a "man who enabled
democratic change in Croatia and a premier who directed Croatia
onto the European path."


He said that "with his personality and political engagement
(Racan) strongly marked ... Croatia's recent history".


Prime Minister Ivo Sanader stressed that Racan had "made some key
moves" to bring Croatia closer to the European Union.


"In our political rivalry we always knew how to overcome
differences when it was about national interests ... since we
knew that Croatia's future is in the EU," he said.


"On this sad occasion I want to praise him for that."


Racan's party said: "The SDP and Croatia has lost a man who
marked our lives and the history of this country in an
irreversible way."


Racan had been hospitalised in Zagreb since late March after
cancer spread to his brain. A month earlier he had undergone
surgery to remove a tumorous kidney.


He resigned as party leader earlier this month.


His government is credited with improving Croatia's image in the
aftermath of its 1991-1995 war of independence from the former
Yugoslavia, and ending its isolation after years of autocratic
rule by nationalist president Franjo Tudjman, who died in 1999.


Racan made Zagreb's first steps toward membership of the EU,
which the current conservative government continued with the
opening of negotiations in 2005.


Meanwhile, Muslim and Croat members of Bosnia's tripartite
presidency -- Haris Silajdzic and Zeljko Komsic -- expressed
their condolences.


"As a man who enabled democratic changes in Croatia he has also
marked and contributed in an irreversible way to political events
during the past 20 years on the territory of the former
Yugoslavia," Komsic said in a statement.


Racan, a former communist leader, is seen as a true democrat who
allowed a peaceful transition from communism in the 1990s and
withdrew into opposition.


The Social Democrats have yet to elect his successor ahead of
general polls later this year.


Racan will be buried at a private funeral.

