

A South Korean business tycoon was Sunday questioned by police
over allegations that he had led an alleged gangster-style
revenge attack for an assault on his son.


Hanwha Group chairman Kim Seung-Youn, who turned himself in to
Seoul district police, apologised over the scandalous case but
refused to clarify  publicly his involvement in violence at a
Seoul bar.


"I feel so sorry for causing a stir over a personal affair. It
will be disclosed by police investigations (whether I have
directly used violence)," Kim told media as he walked into the
police compound.


But Kim, 55, denied knowledge of what local media called a second
revenge attack at a remote mountain south of Seoul, following the
one at the Seoul bar in the early hours of March 8.


South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported that the Hanwha team
stormed the bar that evening in a revenge attack on people
involved in the brawl.


Yonhap reported that after failing to find the person who
directly assaulted Kim's son, the mob hunted down more people at
another bar, locked them up briefly at a construction site on a
remote mountain south of Seoul, and assaulted them also before
releasing them.


Police said they had secured testimonies from victims that Kim
senior was directly involved in both revenge attacks. But Hanwha
denied the claims.


Kim, who surrendered to police after rejecting a summons twice on
Saturday, became the first South Korean conglomerate chief ever
to be investigated on violence-related charges.


The presidential office called for a thorough investigation
Saturday.


Kim's son, a 22-year-old Yale University student whose name has
not been disclosed, reportedly received 10 stitches to a cut on
his face after falling down stairs during the bar fight.


Kim had apologised in a statement Friday as the case snowballed,
making headlines and drawing criticism from media and
politicians. Hanwha is one of South Korea's top 10 conglomerates.


Kim's son, on an exchange student programme at a Seoul
university, has been in China since last week.


Far from being a gangster, Kim was a soft-hearted father, Hanwha
said in a statement defending him, Yonhap reported.


"He loves his children so much that even when he was extremely
busy at the time of the country's financial crisis in the late
1990s, he cried in his car because he missed them so much," the
statement said.


"He has done a lot of things for not only the company but also
for the country."

