

International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm Speed
apologised Sunday for the "very sad way" the World Cup Final
finished amidst farcical scenes.


Players and spectators here at the Kensington Oval, not to
mention millions of television viewere were left baffled by the
climax to Saturday's match which saw Australia celebrate victory
twice and forced Sri Lanka to bat in pitch-black darkness on a
ground without floodlights.


A team of officials including on-field umpire Steve Bucknor,
standing in a record fifth World Cup final, managed to overlook a
standard playing condition.


This states that once 20 overs have been bowled in both innings
enough cricket has been played to have a result declared under
the Duckworth/Lewis system for rain-affected games.


Instead the teams, following instructions from Bucknor and
Pakistan's Aleem Dar, the other on-field umpire, came back on to
bowl three more overs in gathering gloom in a match Australia
then won by 53 runs under the D/L system.


Speed, flanked by ICC general manager David Richardson who
oversees the sport's elite officials, told a Kensington Oval news
conference here Sunday: "David and I are here today on behalf of
ICC to say to the wider stakeholders of the game that we too are
very sorry this incident occurred at the end of what, on any
view, had been an outstanding day of cricket.


"It was an unecessary error, a fundamental error, it was made
under difficult circumstances at the end of the match.


"It was unfortunate, a very sad way to finish the World Cup. I
hope we can recall the great day's cricket we had before this
very unfortunate ending."


One consolation was that, with Australia well ahead, the
incorrect ruling didn't affect the outcome.


Former South Africa wicket-keeper Richardson couldn't explain how
a group including match referee Jeff Crowe and experienced third
umpire Rudi Koertzen could make such a basic mistake.


"We've tried to come up with an explanation and we can't. We've
spoken to them (the officials) and they are at a loss to try to
explain.


"I can only say it's similar to the situation where you are
sitting at home and the answer to a quiz question on TV looks
very simple and you just lose your train of thought when you are
in that heated, pressure situation.


"If you do get sidetracked by the pressure situation it only
takes one guy to sow a seed of doubt in the other people's
minds."


Crowe, a former New Zealand batsman, suggested Saturday that
South Africa's Koertzen had initiated the sequence of events that
led to the final's bizarre conclusion and Richardson said: "I
think that's quite correct."


He added: "What worries me, as the guy ultimately responsible for
how match officials perform is that we get ourselves into a
pressure situation and we are not able to cope with it.


"That's what it's about, whether you are playing or officiating.


"Everybody knows, you all know, certainly as players once we got
to 20 overs (in the second innings), we all used to rub our hands
and say 'tomorrow's off'. I'm sure you think the same way and the
umpires do as well, funnily enough. It just went a bit cloudy."


Speed insisted no member of the five-man playing control team
faced instant dismissal but Richardson said: "Malcolm has said we
are not going to over-react but we are certainly going to take it
very seriously and look at how it could have happened."

