

American teenager Sam Querrey claimed his maiden ATP match
victory on European clay on Sunday, stunning Peru's Luis Horna
7-6 (7/5), 6-4 at the Estoril Open.


Querrey, 19 years old and ranked 66th, got his spring campaign
back on track after losing in the first round last week in
Barcelona to Potito Starace.


Russian Igor Kunitsyn meanwhile dispatched another young
pretender as he reached the second round over Pedro Sousa of
Portugal 6-1, 6-1.


Estoril is taking a page from Monte Carlo and the French Open,
beginning play a day earlier in order to offer one more weekend
session of tennis to the public.


Querrey, who impressed during a clay court Challenger-level event
in Bermuda earlier this month before venturing to the major
league match-ups, will next face either Frenchman Gael Monfils or
Argentine Juan Monaco.


Horna, 26, was unable to make an impression against the youngest
American in the Top 100, seven of whose nine losses this season
have come against top ten players.


He was most notably a victim of Roger Federer in Miami and
Estoril top seed Nikolay Davydenko in Indian Wells.


Davydenko is hoping to recover from a right wrist injury in time
for his start in Portugal.


An over-enthusiastic deep-tissue muscle massage after a match
forced the world number four to withdraw in Spain from his
quarter-final.


Davydenko, last year's losing finalist to David Nalbandian, opens
his first round against French qualifier Olivier Patience.


Third seed Novak Djokovic debuts at Estoril on Monday against
Igor Andreev, the last man to win a clay match against Rafael
Nadal - 72 matches ago - in April, 2005.


"I didn't have a great start to the clay season," said Djokovic.


"But after a tough American hardcourt season I need two or three
weeks to recover and get used to the clay.


"I'm not worried about my form but I'm looking to improve my
game."


Women are also playing a minor WTA event here, with third seeded
Czech Lucia Safarova starting against Aravane Rezai of France.

