

Sam Allardyce on Sunday resigned as manager of English
Premiership club Bolton Wanderers amid rumours he could be
appointed Manchester City boss in the summer.


"After nearly eight privileged years with Bolton Wanderers
Football Club, I would like to announce that, after careful
consideration and dialogue with my close family and senior
officials within the football club, I will be resigning as
manager of the club with immediate effect," Allardyce said in a
statement.


"It was mutually decided that I step down now rather than at the
end of the season, to give my successor the ideal opportunity to
experience the preparation and build-up of matchday in readiness
of next season.


"The decision to leave the football club, which has been my
spiritual home for over 18 years, as both player and manager, is
one of the hardest decisions I have had to make in my life.


"However, after guiding the team into a position where the club
is on the verge of qualification for European football for the
second time in three years, which has been the accumulation of
almost seven years of strategic building and hard work across all
areas of the football club, I feel it is the right moment to step
down from my duties and welcome a new exciting era for the club
under different leadership."


There was little indication that Allardyce - who failed to attend
the 2-2 draw with Chelsea on Saturday claiming he was ill - was
intent on walking away from the club he joined as an apprentice.


And Bolton chairman Phil Gartside said he had "reluctantly
accepted the resignation" with the club on the verge of
qualification for the UEFA Cup despite a traumatic campaign.


A BBC Panorama investigation linked Allardyce to a bungs scandal,
though he refuted the accusations made in the programme and
threatened the programme- makers with legal action.


Panorama's 'Undercover: Football's Dirty Secrets' claimed that
Allardyce and his son Craig, formerly a football agent, were
given illegal payments to facilitate player transfers.


"I would like to thank Sam for his enormous contribution to
Bolton Wanderers, both as a player, but more importantly as a
manager," Gartside said.


"Since joining the club as manager in October 1999, he has helped
lead a fantastic transformation of this famous Lancashire club
and has helped design and build an infrastructure that will
enable the club to continue the progress that we have undoubtedly
made in his period of office."

