

Bangladesh's High Court on Sunday refused to accept a petition
asking police not to arrest or harass former prime minister
Sheikh Hasina when she returns home next week, her lawyer said.


The court ruled that the petitioner did not have the right
documents showing the legal move was on Sheikh Hasina's behalf,
her lawyer Mahbube Alam said.


The petition sought to forestall Sheikh Hasina's arrest until she
appears before a court, Alam added.


The court asked her to obtain the necessary documents to move the
petition, he said.


Sheikh Hasina, the leader of Bangladesh's main opposition party,
the Awami League, plans to fly home next week from the United
Kingdom after the military- backed government appeared to back
away from efforts to keep her in exile.


The administration barred Sheikh Hasina, the country's premier
from 1996 to 2001, from returning from holiday earlier this month
while she was in the United States.


The authorities had also been trying to force out Sheikh Hasina's
main rival, Khaleda Zia, the country's last prime minister and
leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party.


Both Sheikh Hasina and Zia are accused of corruption, political
violence and misrule that led to a major crisis in January, which
saw elections cancelled and a state of emergency imposed.


The interim government appeared to drop its exile plans for the
two women earlier this week.


But it maintained murder and extortion charges against Sheikh
Hasina and brought up the possibility of corruption charges
against Zia.


On Wednesday it ordered banks to supply details of the two
leaders' bank accounts.


It had earlier been reported that Zia had agreed to go into exile
in Saudi Arabia in return for leniency for her two sons, who face
corruption allegations.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina have held power alternately since 1991, but
the new government has pledged to clean up Bangladesh's
notoriously corrupt politics in order to put democracy back on
track.


It has said it will hold fresh elections by the end of 2008.

