

The Estonian government will rehouse a Soviet-era war memorial by
a key World War II anniversary next month, officials said Sunday
following deadly riots over the statue's removal.


"I expect the Bronze Soldier to stand at the miltary cemetery by
May 8, the day of victory of the anti-Hitler coalition in World
War II," Estonian Defence Minister Jaak Aaviksoo told a press
conference.


The 2.5-metre (eight-foot) high statue was removed early Friday
from the site in central Tallinn where it had stood for decades,
after rioters raged through the capital the night before.


One person, a Russian citizen, was killed in the clashes, which
erupted anew Friday night and which authorities here have
denounced as vandalism having nothing to do with the war
monument.


More than 150 people were injured in the two nights of violence
and nearly 1,000 have been temporarily detained, many of them
under-age.


Forty-six people have been placed under arrest pending the start
of formal investigations, police said Sunday.


Estonians see the bronze statue as a symbol of 50 years of Soviet
occupation following World War II, while Russians see it as a
sacred memorial to the millions of Red Army soldiers who died
fighting the Nazis.


The military cemetery, located in a quiet Tallinn neighbourhood,
"is the most dignified and suitable place to pay homage to the
memory of those soldiers who may be buried" under the current
disputed monument site in central Tallinn, Aaviksoo said.


Estonians mark the anniversary of victory over the Nazis in World
War II on May 8, while the country's ethnic Russian community,
which makes up a quarter of the population of 1.34 million,
celebrates the end of the war the following day.


Russia has declined an Estonian invitation to send a
representative to take part in a group of international observers
overseeing the excavation work and the subsequent exhumation of
the bodies thought to be buried at the site, Aaviksoo said.


"The Russian Federation gave a negative answer to our request,
without explaining it," he said, adding that Estonia would issue
a new invitation to Russia to join the reopening ceremony for the
monument on May 8.


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet meanwhile characterised as
"highly regrettable" Moscow's accusations of excessive force by
Estonian police against the rioters and of "blasphemy" regarding
the monument's removal.


Paet insisted that although the majority of the rioters had been
Russian- speaking youths, the riots were rooted in vandalism
rather than political outrage.


"Police detained a considerable number of Estonians as well who
had joined the Russians in grabbing for free from looted shops
Hugo Boss jeans, designer underwear and first of all, alcohol,"
he said.


"I don't see a logical connection between marking the memory of
those who fell in World War II and vandalising shops," he added.


Tallinn was calm overnight Saturday, with police preventing
crowds from forming, conducting body searches at random of people
who ventured out into the streets.


In the town of Narva, near the northeastern border with Russia,
around 50 young people were preventively detained for "aggressive
behaviour", while a man carrying a hand grenade in his pocket was
arrested in nearby Kohtla-Jarve, police told BNS.

