

Spanish telecom giant Telefonica has gained a footprint in Italy
by agreeing to purchase a 10-percent stake in Telecom Italia,
signaling strong economic cooperation between the countries.


The deal follows moves by Italian energy group Enel to purchase
Spanish power company Endesa and comes as the countries' center-
left prime ministers enjoy solid relations.


In February, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
and Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi held talks that
highlighted their similar economic views.


Telfonica is the second-leading telecom group in Europe by sales,
behind Deutsche Telekom and ahead of France Telecom and Vodafone.
It is now set to become an industrial partner with Italy's
leading telecom.


Telefonica generated 52.9 billion euros (72 billion dollars) in
sales last year, a 42 percent increase over 2005. Net profits
were up 40 percent for a record 6.2 billion euros (8.4 billion
dollars).


The two groups do not compete head-to-head in their domestic
markets, which they both dominate as the former state-owned
monopolies.


Telefonica has a strong presence in the British and German mobile
markets through its 2005 purchase of O2, while Telecom Italia is
more focused on Internet services and land lines.


They are also both heavily invested in Latin America. Telefonica
boasts 114 million customers in the region, and the Italian group
is the mobile phone leader in Brazil through its subsidiary Tim-
Brazil.


With its 10 percent indirect share, Telefonica will have two of
19 board seats. Representatives from the Spanish company will not
vote on matters related to countries where both firms are
present, Telfonica said in a statement.


"The two companies will be managed separately and independently,"
Telefonica said. It added that synergies will lead to cost
savings between them.


The Telefonica-Telecom Italia deal could further reinforce
economic cooperation between Italy and Spain.


In recent months, Enel has purchased a nearly 25-percent stake in
Endesa and has succeeded, to the satisfaction of the Spanish
government, in sinking German group E.ON's bid for the company.


Enel, which is 30-percent-owned by the Italian government, and
Spanish partner Acciona are offering 41.3 euros per share for
Endesa, valuing the company at 43.7 billion euros (58.7 billion
dollars).


Enel and Acciona control about 46 percent of Endesa already.

