

Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody is confident that his team will be a
major force in international cricket despite losing the World Cup
final against Australia here.


"We have made a significant progress as a group in the last
couple of years and if we continue to maintain the
professionalism there's no reason why Sri Lanka can't compete on
a regular basis with teams like Australia," he said.


Australia became the first team on Saturday to win the Cup for a
third successive time when they beat Sri Lanka by 53 runs on
Duckworth-Lewis method in the rain-hit final at the Kensington
Oval.


"Sri Lanka can walk away from this World Cup feeling very proud
of what they have achieved. It was very hard to get to this
point," said Moody.


"A lot of hard work had gone into it. I think they had an
exceptional World Cup and to find themselves in the final against
the best team in the world is a great achievement."


Moody said Sri Lanka's cricket had a bright future although quite
a few players were near the end of their one-day careers.


"Sri Lanka has got depth and talent which needs the right
opportunity and perseverance. They play the game with a lot of
passion and pride. They play the game hard," he said.


Moody said one of the main reasons for Sri Lanka's successes was
their excellent strength in depth.


"We found ourselves in strong positions many times because the
players we had in the reserves are capable of playing in the
first eleven. The main reason we reached the final was that we
had a good bench-strength," he said.


Sri Lanka advanced to the final for only the second time, having
won the Cup in 1996 against Australia at Lahore.


Moody was disappointed that his side did not get a chance to
figure in a 100-over final after playing consistent cricket for
nearly two months in the Caribbean.


Sri Lanka had won eight of their 10 matches before the rain-hit
final which eventually saw them chasing 269 off 36 overs. They
managed 215-8 before losing the game in darkness.


"It is disappointing that after nearly two months of playing in
the World Cup you get to the final and can't play a complete
100-over game," he said.


"I think we were only half-a-yard away from winning the World
Cup. We were very close, so I think this team is capable of
winning the next World Cup. There's no reason why Sri Lanka won't
continue its upward curve."


Moody said it would have been very interesting had his side
played the full final or even a 38-overs-a-side as was decided
after the morning rain.


"I think we were on the track when chasing. Even Australia were
aware what Sri Lanka were capable of doing. It would have been
interesting if we had a full 38 overs or, even better, 100," he
said.


"Australia are an exceptional, professional and efficient outfit
and they showed that in the World Cup final. We felt we ran a
close race with them yesterday. We were on target.


"We lost a couple of crucial wickets when we felt we had to be
close to the Duckworth-Lewis method because of the conditions. It
was disappointing given the confusion about the conditions and
completion of the game."


He said he had not yet decided on his future.


"I am not making any decision on my future. I have a chance to
reflect, sit back and have a look where I want to be
professionally and personally in the next stage of my career,"
said Moody, whose contract expires in May and who is widely
tipped to take over as coach of Western Australia.

