

South African cricket captain Graeme Smith said on Sunday he
would not use politics as an excuse for South Africa's
performance in the Cricket World Cup in the West Indies.


A Johannesburg Sunday newspaper quoted Jonty Rhodes, the former
South African international and the team's fielding coach at the
World Cup, as saying Smith had been hamstrung by the selection
policies of Cricket South Africa administrators.


Since emerging from the apartheid era, Cricket South Africa has
sought to redress the racial imbalances of the past by including
a number of black players in provincial and national teams.


They took seven black players to the West Indies, which prompted
a number of commentators to imply South Africa did not take their
best 15-man squad to the World Cup.


South Africa were well beaten by Australia in the second semi-
final of the tournament in St Lucia on Wednesday.


"We were pathetic against Australia," Rhodes told Rapport, "but
South Africa is the only land that can't say they had their best
15 players here.


"In a tournament like this, where every player in every game has
to be at his best, is that a recipe for a problem. Can (CSA)
honestly say they gave Graeme the 15 men he needed to win the
World Cup?"


Speaking at a press conference in Johannesburg after arriving
back in South Africa on Sunday, Smith said he had not read the
report, but strongly denied that the selection policy had
hampered the team in any way.


"I would never have said that. That's not an excuse. One of the
tough things is to control (at the World Cup) is the outside
influences on the team, when there are things said and some lies
are flying around. I won't be making any excuses about politics,"
said Smith.


South African coach Mickey Arthur, who is expected to be offered
a new two-year contract, believed his team had the right tactics
in the tournament.


After the semi-final loss they were heavily criticised for their
overly aggressive batting early on against Australia, which saw
them lose five wickets for 27 runs, and only manage a total of
149. Australia won by seven wickets with 111 balls remaining.


"I can honestly say that there was nothing we would have
changed," said Arthur.


"I think our preparation was right. Our game plan is the way to
go. This is the way one-day cricket has gone, and, to an extent,
I think we pioneered it. I believe our tactics and training were
right."


South Africa were ranked as the top one-day international team in
the world coming into the World Cup, but lost four of their 10
matches at the tournament. Arthur believed his team had
nevertheless been successful over the last 12 months.


"We have had a good year," said Arthur. "We won 19 one-day games
and lost seven. We were in the semi-final of the Champions Trophy
and the World Cup. We won two Test series, four ODI series in a
row and became the number one ODI team in the world. Looking back
as a team and as a unit, we've had an unbelievable summer."

