

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice Sunday did not rule out a
meeting with her Iranian counterpart on the sidelines of a
multinational conference on Iraq security next week.


"I will not rule out that we may encounter each other," she said.


She made clear, however, that Iraq would be the only issue on the
agenda of any discussion between the two rivals.


"This is not a meeting about the United States and Iran, this is
a meeting about Iraq and about what Iraq's neighbors and
interested parties can do to help stabilize the situation in
Iraq," she told ABC news.


Rice suggested that in any encounter, she would repeat US calls
on Iran to stop aiding insurgents in Iraq.


She said it was "quite obvious" what Tehran would need to do help
stem the bloodletting in Iraq.


"Stop the flow of arms to foreign fighters. Stop the flow of
foreign fighters across the borders. Stop using advanced IED
(improvised explosive device) technology to kill American
soldiers. Stop stirring up trouble among militias that then go
and kill innocent Iraqis.


"It's quite clear what needs to be done," she said.


The United States, which has not had diplomatic relations with
Tehran since the 1979 Iranian revolution, has recently shown more
flexibility. Originally, President George W. Bush refused all
contact with Tehran, but later agreed to join multilateral talks
aimed at ending its controversial nuclear program. Those talks
have not ended the program, but Bush now is suggesting bilateral
talks on Iraq may be possible.


Bush last week said Rice might meet with the Iranian foreign
minister when ministers from the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council, the Group of Eight and Iraq's neighbors meet at
the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3 and 4.


But he asserted that there would be no one-to-one talks outside
such a forum.


Asked in an interview with PBS television whether Rice might have
"bilateral conversations" in Egypt with Iranian Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki, Bush replied: "They could."


"I'm more than happy to send our representatives to a regional
conference, all aiming at helping the Iraq government gain
credibility in the international community," he said.


"What I'm not willing to do is sit down bilaterally with the
Iranians."


Iran -- which the United States accuses of sponsoring violent
factions fighting in its neighbor -- has demanded the release of
five Iranian officials held in Iraq by US forces on suspicion of
weapons smuggling.


On Sunday, Rice denied speculation that the United States had
promised to release the five to lure a reluctant Iran to the
meeting.


"There was no guarantee. We've talked to the Iraqi government and
informed them that the detainees will be dealt with in the normal
course," she told CNN.


"There's a normal process for dealing with detainees and we'll
deal with these detainees in that normal process," she said.


US-Iranian relations for months have been strained by Tehran's
nuclear program, which Washington charges masks an atomic weapons
program, despite the Islamic republic's insistence that it is
only for civilian nuclear power.


Rice said that any meeting in Egypt would not tackle the issue of
nuclear power.


"The proper channel for Iran's nuclear program is through Javier
Solana, the EU (European Union) high representative, who is
representing all of the six countries that have made Iran a very
generous offer concerning the development of nuclear power," she
told CNN.

