

Iran announced on Sunday that it will attend a key conference on
Iraq's security in Egypt alongside arch-enemy the United States
this week, ending weeks of uncertainty over its involvement.


Iran's participation raises the possibility of a rare encounter
on its sidelines between its Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki
and US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


Rice said she would "not rule out" such a meeting but Iranian
officials have so far declined to be drawn on the possibility.


Officials in Tehran and Baghdad said Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki spoke to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on the
telephone to ask Tehran to take part in the conference and
Ahmadinejad agreed.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran confirmed that it would attend the
two conferences in Sharm el-Sheikh to assist Iraq at the level of
foreign ministers," Maliki's office said in a statement.


"Ahmadinejad, taking into account Iran's support of the popularly
elected government of Iraq, said that Iran will take part at the
level of foreign minister," an official from Ahmadinejad's office
told AFP.


The decision for Mottaki to represent Iran at the conference in
the Egyptian Red Sea resort came after a flurry of diplomatic
activity aimed at persuading Tehran to take part.


A meeting between him and Rice would be the first such bilateral
contact since then foreign minister Kamal Kharazi and US
secretary of state Colin Powell found themselves placed next to
each other by their Egyptian hosts at dinner at a similar Iraq
conference in November 2004.


Rice said: "I will not rule out that we may encounter each other.


"This is not a meeting about the United States and Iran, this is
a meeting about Iraq and about what Iraq's neighbours and
interested parties can do to help stabilize the situation in
Iraq," she told ABC news.


Tehran had shown a reluctance to sign up for the May 3-4
conference in Sharm el- Sheikh, citing unhappiness with the
decision to include world powers such as the United States
alongside Iraq's neighbours.


Iraqi officials have been seeking to persuade Tehran to take
part, and Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari held talks last
week in Tehran with Mottaki.


Tehran's attendance also appeared to be complicated by the
continued detention by Washington in Iraq of five Iranian
officials it arrested in January on accusations of seeking to
stir trouble there.


Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani arrived in
Baghdad on Sunday afternoon for a three-day visit to discuss the
conference and other issues on a previously unannounced mission,
state television said,


"The visit of Mr Larijani is in the framework of bilateral
relations. He will probably talk about security questions and the
international conference," foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad
Ali Hosseini told reporters.


A visit by Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh to Tehran
later on Sunday was cancelled after Larijani decided to go to
Iraq himself, state media reported.


Zebari's visit failed to win a clear pledge from Iran to attend
the conference, but there had been mounting calls from
influential voices inside Iran for Tehran to participate.


Any meeting between Rice and Mottaki would mark a rare high-level
contact between the two foes who have had no diplomatic relations
since Washington cut ties in 1980 over the seizure of the US
embassy in Tehran by radical students.


Washington accuses Tehran of fomenting violence in Iraq by arming
and training extremist factions, a charge denied by Iran, and the
long-time foes are also at loggerheads over the Iranian nuclear
programme.


Rice said Sunday that it was "quite obvious" what Tehran would
need to do help violence-racked Iraq.


"Stop the flow of arms to foreign fighters. Stop the flow of
foreign fighters across the borders. Stop using advanced IED
(improvised explosive device) technology to kill American
soldiers. Stop stirring up trouble among militias that then go
and kill innocent Iraqis."

