

Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani met Iraqi
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki in Baghdad on Sunday at the start
of a previously unannounced three- day visit.


It came as the neighbours announced that Iran would send its
foreign minister to conferences of world and regional powers this
week to find ways to help Iraq build peace and overcome its
current security crisis.


According to a statement from Maliki's office, the Iraqi leader
"thanked Iran for agreeing to participate in the two Sharm
conferences," referring to planned meetings in the Egyptian
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh.


The Iraqi statement said that Larijani had promised that Iran
would invest in Iraq's electricity grid and provide fuel
supplies.


"He also said Iran has been at the forefront in aiding the
government and the Iraqi people after the fall of the dictatorial
system and those countries that want security and stability in
the region must support the elected Iraqi government," according
to Maliki's office.


Iran maintains close ties with many figures in Maliki's Shiite-
led government, despite the suspicions of his embattled
coalition's other main ally, the United States.


US commanders allege that Iranian agents fund, train and equip
many of the extremist factions involved in Iraq's insurgency and
sectarian war, including those which target Iraqi and US forces.


Five Iranian officials have been in US custody in Iraq since
December, when they were seized in a raid in the northern city of
Arbil.


Washington says the men are operatives from the Iranian
Revolutionary Guards' covert Qods Force. Iran insists they are
diplomats.


Maliki has tried to steer a difficult middle path between his
mismatched supporters, refusing to criticise his larger neighbour
while calling on all the countries in the region to help cut off
support for Iraqi extremists.


A planned visit by Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh to
Tehran later on Sunday was cancelled after Larijani decided to go
to Iraq himself, Iranian state media reported.

