

Sevilla increased the pressure on reigning champions Barcelona
with a 3-1 win over fellow UEFA Cup semi-finallists Espanyol on
Sunday.


The victory means that Sevilla temporarily take over at the top
of the Spanish first division and have a two point lead although
Barcelona have a game in hand and face struggling Levante later
on Sunday.


Two goals in as many minutes from Antonio Puerta and Ernesto
Chevanton early in the second half seemed to put Sevilla well in
control in what could be a rehearsal for the UEFA Cup final in
Glasgow on May 16.


However, Sevilla made the mistake of letting their concentration
slip.


Ferran Corominas replied for Espanyol on the hour, making the
most of some slack marking before luring Sevilla goalkeeper
Andres Palop off his line and pushing the ball past him.


Jose Luis Marti then restored Sevilla's two goal advantage on 71
minutes with a left foot thunderbolt from the edge of the area to
ensure three points.


The game which saw both sides rest several players ahead of their
UEFA Cup semi- finals on Thursday.


Sevilla's Fredi Kanoute, the Spanish first division's joint
leading scorer, spent the whole game on the bench in a bid to
give his chronic groin problem some rest.


At the other end of the table, relegation now looms even larger
for bottom club Gimnastic Tarragona after they went down 3-0 at
home to Villarreal.


Diego Forlan opened the scoring after 18 minutes following a pass
from Alessio Tacchinardi and the Uruguayan was on target again 11
minutes before the whistle.


Matias Fernandez finished off the demolition job for Villarreal
with a left foot shot in injury time.


Real Sociedad remain in penultimate position after losing 1-0 at
Getafe, with defender Alexis Ruano headed home a Mario Cotelo
corner after 70 minutes to get the only goal of the game.


Sociedad, who were last in the Spanish second division 40 years
ago, had their chances though, including a shot by Aitor Lopez
Rekarte which hit the post late in the first half.


Celta Vigo continue to struggle, despite the arrival of new coach
Hristo Stoichkov three weeks ago, and look like the most likely
candidates to be relegated along with Gimnastic and Real
Sociedad.


The Bulgaria and Barcelona legend could do little to motivate his
men and Celta crashed 3-0 in front of their own fans to Real
Mallorca.


Juan Arango put Mallorca ahead after just 10 minutes, the
Venezulan striker finding the net with a looping left foot effort
from the edge of the area.


Midway through the first half Fernando Varela added to Celta's
woes with a superb long-range strike from 20 metres and former
Barcelona striker Maxi Lopez added Mallorca's third 10 minutes
from time.


Real Zaragoza salvaged a point with a 2-2 draw at Osasuna with
Sergio Garcia getting their second equaliser one minute into
injury time, heading home a free kick from Alberto Zapater.


Third-placed Real Madrid are still very much involved in the
tightest three-way title race since 2002 but have a potentially
tricky trip to struggling Athletic Bilbao later on Sunday.


The Basques are still only two points clear of the bottom three
but are fighting hard in recent weeks to preserve their historic
status of never having been relegated from the Spanish first
division.


David Beckham is expected to take the place of Gonzalo Higuain in
the Real lineup while.


Real's Brazilian right back Cicinho will start his first game for
more than seven months after snapping knee ligaments in his knee
in September.

