

Diplomatic players expressed "grave concern" over the situation
in the Sudanese region of Darfur on Sunday as activists held
protests around the world against the Khartoum government.


A two-day conference in the Libyan capital attended by the five
veto-wielding members of the UN Security Council as well as
regional governments "expressed grave concern over continued
violence and insecurity in Darfur".


It "urged all parties to immediately cease hostilities and act
upon their commitment to uphold a ceasefire without delay".


The meeting, which was also attended by the Khartoum government,
did not spell out whom it held responsible for the violence in
Darfur, where the launch of an ethnic minority uprising four
years ago drew a scorched earth response from the government.


The meeting called for an "immediate cessation of all attacks
against humanitarian workers" as well as African Union
peacekeepers.


At least seven members of the embattled 7,000-strong AU force
have been killed in the past two months.


The conference "reconfirmed its support" for a November agreement
thrashed out in Ethiopia for a three-phase plan to convert the AU
mission into a 20,000 strong hybrid AU-UN force.


The Sudanese government has so far endorsed only the first two
phases of the plan.


The conference expressed backing for efforts by former rebels
from southern Sudan who are now part of a national unity
government in Khartoum to persuade Darfur rebel groups that
rejected a 2006 peace deal with the authorities to sign up.


It "noted ongoing efforts aimed at cohesion and consolidated
positions among the non-signatories, including the Sudan People's
Liberation Movement plan to hold a conference of non-signatories,
and called for urgent progress on those efforts."


It "urged all parties to demonstrate serious commitment in the
political process and accelerate preparations for negotiations."


The conference welcomed what it described as "positive
developments" in relations between Sudan and Chad, following
repeated border clashes between the armed forces of the two
governments, both of which joined the weekend's conference.


Khartoum accuses N'Djamena of backing Darfur rebel groups while
Chad in turn accuses Sudan of backing rebels active in the east
of the country.


The conference came as activists held demonstrations in capitals
around the world to demand action to prevent further bloodshed in
Darfur where more than 200,000 people have died in the conflict,
according to UN figures.


The Global Day for Darfur, organised by a coalition including
Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, saw activists turn
over more than 10,000 hourglasses filled with fake blood in
reference to the continuing loss of life.

