

English football's ruling body the Football Association (FA) on
Sunday announced it was holding an investigation into the pitch
invasion by Leeds United fans at Elland Road on Saturday.


Several hundred supporters spilled on to the pitch and forced a
30-minute delay after a late Ipswich equaliser all but sealed
fallen giants Leeds' relegation from the Championship which will
see them playing outside the top two tiers for the first time in
their proud history.


But any fears the Yorkshire club might have had of a points
reduction for the start of next season was described as highly
unlikely by FA chiefs.


FA spokesman Mark Hooper said: "In the first instance it's a
criminal offence to encroach on the pitch and we will be liaising
with the police on that matter.


"We will be making various enquiries. We will wait to see the
reports from our crowd observers and the referee's match report
and will also be seeking observations from the club as to what
happened.


"We will work with the relevant authorities and see if the police
are taking any action.


"It's too early to say what action the FA would find appropriate,
but it would be very unusual for that to be a points deduction.


"It's more likely any individual found guilty of an offence will
be banned and we'd make sure the club is taking the right steps
to ensure it doesn't happen again."


Referee Michael Jones and the players ran for the tunnel after a
section of Leeds fans ran on to the pitch before the final
whistle.


Jones brought the players back out to complete the last 60
seconds of play after stewards had managed to clear the pitch.


But the referee's decision was criticised by Ipswich manager Jim
Magilton, who claimed he had feared for his players' safety.


Magilton said: "It was a shambolic but brave decision to come
back out.


"I was involved in something similar at West Ham when the referee
called the game off. He should have called this one off.


"It was a poor decision. The players were worried about going
back out.


"If any of them had got injured or hurt, I would have been
knocking on the referee's door."


With Hull clinching victory at Cardiff, Ipswich striker Alan
Lee's 88th-minute equaliser at Elland Road leaves Leeds needing
to overturn a goal difference of nine with Hull on the final day
at Derby to survive, just six years after they appeared in the
Champions League semi-finals.

