

Former Russian President Boris Yeltsin felt certain that his
handpicked successor Vladimir Putin would "not turn back the
clock back" on democracy, ex- US President Bill Clinton wrote in
a newspaper article published Sunday.


Clinton, who was part of an official US delegation attending
Yeltsin's funeral last week, wrote in the New York Times that the
Russian leader felt confident that "President Putin would not
turn the clock back, and we would find a way to work together."


But the former US leader said he told Yeltsin that he did not
entirely share that assessment.


"I told him I was impressed by what I had seen of President
Putin, but wasn't sure he was as comfortable with or committed to
democracy as Mr Yeltsin," said Clinton, who said a top goal of
the late Russian president, who died Monday from heart failure,
aged 76, was to safeguard Russia's fledgling democracy.


Clinton wrote in the daily that Yeltsin "clearly thought he had
done the right thing in stepping down early and in selecting as
his successor Vladimir Putin, who had the intelligence, energy
and stamina the country needed to get Russia's economy on track
and handle its complicated politics."


He added that Yeltsin "had two objectives above all others. The
first was to make sure that the Russian people never again had to
live under communism, or autocratic ultranationalism. The second
was to form a solid, lasting partnership between a democratic
Russia and the West."


Putin has been criticized for ruling Russia with an iron-fist and
backtracking on his predecessor's democratic reforms and
presiding over worsening relations with the West.


Last week he stunned Western capitals by suspending Russia's
participation in the Soviet-era Conventional Forces in Europe
(CFE) treaty on troop deployments.


Clinton and Yeltsin maintained good relations following the
Russian leader's surprise resignation on New Year's Eve, 1999.


The former US president, whose wife Hillary is considered a
front-runner in the effort to succeed him in the White House,
eulogized Yeltsin as a pivotal figure who changed his country
"mostly for the better."


He praised Yeltsin's efforts "in developing a pluralistic
democracy with a free press and a vigorous civil society, and ...
his critical cooperation on security issues."


"Mr Yeltsin and I had our differences, and his position was often
made more difficult by economic problems and political pressures.
But at the end of the day, he almost always did the right thing,"
Bill Clinton wrote.

