

Spain's Princess Letizia, wife to heir to the throne Prince
Felipe de Bourbon, on Sunday gave birth to the couple's second
child, a baby girl, the royal palace announced.


Princess Letizia, 34, and Prince Felipe, 39, married in 2004.
Their first child Leonor, also a daughter, was born in October
2005.


Their new baby, whose name and weight were not immediately given,
was born in the same luxury private Madrid clinic as Leonor. She
was a few days early, having been expected in early May.


Princess Letizia was admitted to the facility around midday
Sunday and delivered her child within hours.


Prince Felipe's sister, Cristina, told state TVE television that
the new father, who was present at the birth, had cried
afterwards. "It all went rather well," she said of the delivery.


In an indication of the intense media interest surrounding the
birth, the royal palace announced the news by mobile telephone
text message almost immediately to journalists, saying: "Her
Royal Highness the princess of Asturias has given birth to a
girl."


Prince Felipe was expected to make a declaration to the media in
front of the clinic later Sunday during which he would reveal the
baby's name.


For Princess Letizia, the happy development contrasted starkly
with the grief she was dealt just two months ago, when her
sister, Erika Ortiz, died in an apparent suicide following a
relationship break-up.


The new arrival becomes third in line to the throne currently
occupied by King Juan Carlos, 69, after Prince Felipe and Leonor.


If the prince and princess were to give birth to a boy in the
future, however, he would be propelled to second-in-line after
Prince Felipe under the current Spanish constitution, pushing
past his older sisters.


The Socialist government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero has sought to change the constitution to allow royal
offspring to rise to the throne in order of their births and
irrespective of their gender, but that has been stymied by the
conservative opposition.


King Juan Carlos's wife, Queen Sofia, was informed of the
addition to the royal family in Moscow, where she was attending
the funeral of her friend, the legendary cellist Mstislav
Rostropovich. She was due back in Madrid late Sunday.

