

Britain may have suffered "severe damage" to its reputation for
fighting corruption when it dropped a probe into a multi-billion
pound arms deal with Saudi Arabia, lawmakers warned Sunday.


The House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee was reacting to
the government's decision to stop the probe in December on
"national interest" grounds after it said Saudi Arabia had
threatened to sever security links if it continued.


The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) had been investigating allegations
that defence manufacturer BAE Systems had set up a secret slush
fund for members of the Saudi royal family to secure continued
business, dating back to the 1980s Al-Yamamah arms deal.


Another BAE deal, worth 10 billion pounds (15.2 billion euros,
19.6 billion dollars) for 72 Eurofighter jets, was reportedly
under threat because of the SFO probe.


"We conclude that the government's decision to halt the inquiry
into the Al- Yamamah arms deal may have caused severe damage to
the reputation of the United Kingdom in the fight against
corruption," the committee said.


"We recommend that in its response to this report, the government
set out what steps it has taken since that decision to maintain
momentum on international anti-corruption measures," it
continued.


"There may also be an argument that it has weakened the United
Kingdom's ability to take firm action against Saudi Arabia in a
range of fields, including human rights."


The Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) said in January that its anti-bribery experts
had "serious concerns" about the British decision.


Britain is a signatory to article five of the OECD anti-bribery
convention, which states that bribery probes should not be
influenced by considerations of national economic interest or
potential effects on bilateral relations.


BAE Systems confirmed to Britain's attorney general that it had
provided "support services" to Saudi officials in a communication
18 months ago, an account made public under freedom of
information laws earlier this month.


Though the account did not specify what the "support services"
were, BAE denied allegations of bribery, claiming that the
services were part of "contractual arrangements".

