

Fallen English football giants Leeds' almost certain relegation
to League One is nothing to do with the tainted former regime,
claimed the club's former chairman Peter Ridsdale on Sunday.


Ridsdale - now in charge of Cardiff, who have plummeted down the
Championship since he assumed control - denied that his gross
overspending while there had contributed to the 1975 European Cup
finalists and three time domestic champions dramatic decline even
though most fans blame him.


"It is 12 months since they were in the play-off final yet people
say decisions made years ago caused this situation, which is not
the case," said Ridsdale, who oversaw spending of 100million
pounds while he was at the helm.


Ridsdale, who had to cope with plenty of traumatic events while
at Leeds including the murder of two fans in Istanbul prior to a
UEFA Cup match where he emerged with great credit for the
dignified manner in which he dealt with the aftermath, said it
was time for the Leeds board to focus on the future.


"Until people there concentrate on the future I don't think they
have got a chance of coming back," commented Ridsdale, who must
have had mixed feelings on Saturday as Leeds were almost
certainly relegated when they drew with Ipswich and Cardiff lost
to Hull, the only other side capable of going down but who have a
vastly superior goal difference.


"They have got to regroup now. They are a very big club off the
field but what matters in football is what happens on the field -
and too many people are feeling sorry for themselves.


"I have no insight into their financial affairs now."


Ridsdale, who sacked manager David O'Leary when they failed to
qualify for the 2002 Champions League months after they had
reached the previous edition's semi- finals, insisted that he had
left the club stacked with quality players, though, in effect
because of their financial mess they all had to be sold
eventually.


"What I do know is that when I left Leeds four years ago they had
Paul Robinson, Harry Kewell, Mark Viduka and Alan Smith, among
others," said Ridsdale.


"That team should never have been relegated, never mind finding
themselves in the plight they are now."


Leeds, who only a year ago were 90 minutes away from a surprise
return to the Premiership before losing to Watford in the play-
off final, will be relegated to League One unless they score a
hatful of goals to beat Derby on May 6 and Hull City lose.


They have never before played outside the top two tiers.


It led former Leeds legend Mick Jones to sum it up thus.


"Don Revie (Leeds greatest ever manager) would be turning in his
grave.


"Nothing is sacrosanct but in a way this has been inevitable
given the turmoil over the past few years."

