

Elena Dementieva faces a tough challenge at the J and S Cup in
Warsaw which starts here Monday when she returns to the WTA tour
after a lengthy injury break.


The seventh seeded Russian has not played since early February
after suffering a rib injury while playing in Antwerp.


In Warsaw, if she can defeat American Meilen Tu, she is likely to
run into unseeded Venus Williams, with a possible quarter-final
clash with fellow Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova to follow if she
overcomes that formidable hurdle.


Even before her injury, Dementieva had struggled this season,
slumping to a second round defeat in Sydney against China's Na
Li, falling in the fourth round of the Australian Open to
teenager Nicole Vaidisova and then to Martina Hingis in the Tokyo
semi-finals.


She then retired against Russian Elena Likhovtseva during her
opening match in Antwerp.


In contrast, Williams has been on a roll in 2007, winning 16 of
19 matches. That is three more victories than the American earned
during the entire 2006 season.


Having missed the Australian circuit, Williams rebounded by
claiming the Memphis title with an emphatic 6-1, 6-1 win over
Shahar Peer, stretching Maria Sharapova to 7-5 in the third in
Miami, and then reaching the quarter-finals in Amelia Island and
the semi-finals in Charleston when she turned her attention to
clay.


Two wins in the Fed Cup then played a significant part in the
United States' victory over Belgium.


Williams must first tackle Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands.


Dementieva does at least avoid a top half of the draw that
includes Belgian top seed and 2005 champion Justine Henin, fourth
seeded Serb Jelena Jankovic, fifth seed Nadia Petrova of Russia
and in-form Russian Anna Chakvetadze.


With 21 wins this season, Chakvetadze began the year by winning
her third career title in Hobart, reaching the quarter-finals of
the Australian Open before falling to Sharapova in two tight
sets, and advancing to the semi-finals in Antwerp with a victory
over Petrova.


Defending champion Kim Clijsters is seeded two as she embarks
upon a short clay court season that will not include Roland
Garros. Instead of playing in Paris in her final few months
before retiring, the Belgian will spend her time preparing for
the grass court season and her marriage in July to Brian Lynch.


She appears to have a comfortable draw, with an opening round bye
followed by a meeting with a qualifier or Russian veteran Elena
Likhovtseva.


A match with eighth seeded Slovenian Katarina Srebotnik is her
likely quarter- final, with her first major challenge expected to
emerge in the semi-finals against 2006 runner-up Kuznetsova,
Dementieva or Williams.


Henin, after a first round bye, will play Estonia's Kaia Kanepi
or Anna-Lena Groenefeld of Germany, with Petrova as her likely
quarter-final opponent. Jankovic might await her in the semis.

