

Kidnappers on Sunday released seven Chinese workers they abducted
during an attack on an oil plant in eastern Ethiopia last week in
which 77 people died.


"We have released the Chinese at 2:00 pm (1100 GMT) today to the
ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross)," said
Abderahmane Mahdi, the London- based spokesman for the Ogaden
National Liberation Front (ONLF).


"They are safe and well they are now on their way to Jijiga," the
provincial capital of Somali State in southeastern Ethiopia and
home to the Ogaden rebels, Mahdi said.


One Somali and one Ethiopian captured in Tuesday's dawn raid were
also freed, he said.


The ICRC in Addis Ababa confirmed that the workers had been
handed over. The organisation said in a statement that they were
taken to eastern Degehabur, where they were to spend the night
before heading to Addis Ababa on Monday.


A temporary ceasefire was arranged between the ONLF and the
Ethiopian army -- with the ICRC acting as mediator -- to
facilitate the handover, Mahdi said.


The Ethiopian information ministry again accused arch-foe
Eritrea, with whom they have a long-running border dispute, of
being behind the raid.


"The release of the kidnapped came through the joint efforts made
by Ethiopian Somali elders and the ICRC. Released hours ago, the
released hostages have now arrived at the town of Degehabur," it
said in a statement.


"ONLF perpetrated the horrendous act of terrorism in a plot
orchestrated by the government in Asmara."


The attack, which left 68 Ethiopian workers and nine Chinese
dead, was the first on an oil site since the ONLF issued a threat
to foreign companies operating in the region a year ago.


Meanwhile on Sunday, the bodies of the nine Chinese victims of
the attack were flown back to their hometown in central China's
Henan Province, China's official Xinhua agency reported.


On Friday, a senior government official said the Ethiopian army
had surrounded three sites suspected to be ONLF operating
grounds, but the group warned that any heavy-handed attempt to
free the oil workers would endanger their lives.


"There was no military operation. No Ethiopian movement so far,"
Mahdi said.


Earlier in the week, the ONLF said that they wanted to hand over
the Chinese hostages as soon as possible without any demands and
that the attack on the plant was not targeting China.


But it called on Peking to stop cooperating with Addis Ababa on
oil exploration until it gains legitimate self-government in
Ogaden.


The ONLF wants independence for ethnic Somalis in Ethiopia's
eastern Ogaden region, which is part of the Somali region.


Sinopec, the parent company of Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration
Bureau, operator of the Ogaden oil venture, said Thursday it had
no plans to pull out of the resource-rich region despite the
attack.


Predominantly barren, the Ogaden has long been extremely poor,
but in recent years the discovery of gas and oil has brought both
hopes of wealth, and new causes of conflict.

