

Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah has turned down a request to meet
with Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, Baghdad's foreign
minister said Sunday, denying, however, that the refusal was an
outright snub.


On Sunday, The Washington Post reported Abdullah had refused to
receive Maliki before a regional summit on Iraq security set for
next week because the Sunni leader was skeptical of Maliki's
Shiite government.


Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, however, said the
newspaper report was "not true," although he acknowledged a
requested visit had been denied.


"This time the Saudi king, his schedule was not suitable for this
timing," Zebari told CNN.


"So they did not decline it, but they said the king has an
internal tour which he does every now and again. So we couldn't
agree on the timing," he said, speaking in Baghdad.


The apparent snub comes as Saudi Arabia, long a US ally in the
Middle East, has been increasing critical of the US-backed Iraqi
government.


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice put a good face on the
criticism, saying the upcoming regional conference would offer
Maliki the chance to make the case for his government.


"There's no doubt that the Saudi government has concerns about
the process of reconciliation in Iraq," she told CNN.


"They have concerns about Sunni inclusion. They have concerns
about the Iraqi government's willingness to use their security
forces in an even-handed fashion."


She said Maliki could show neighboring countries at the
conference, in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, "what also
needs to be demonstrated to the Iraqi people, that this
government is behaving in an even-handed fashion."


Also Sunday, Martin Indyk, a former assistant secretary of state
for Near East affairs, declared the warm US-Saudi relationship
over, sidelined in part by the Iraqi policy of US President
George W. Bush's administration.


In an essay published in The Washington Post, Indyk said Abdullah
is working to "wean (Arab Shiite governments) off their
dependence on Tehran."


"That dictates engagement, however distasteful, with Hamas in
Gaza and Assad in Damascus," he wrote. "It also requires
distancing Saudi Arabia from Bush's ill- fated Iraq adventure,
which in Abdullah's view is only strengthening a pro- Iranian
Shiite government at Sunni Arab expense."


In March, Abdullah sharply criticized the US troop presence in
Iraq, calling it an "illegitimate foreign occupation."


But Sunday, Rice downplayed the criticism, saying US troop
presence in Iraq was in line with international law.


"We have a good relationship with the Saudis, I think we have the
same strategic goals for Iraq," Rice told CNN. "Our forces are
there, and we've been assured that his majesty understands this,
because of UN Security Council resolutions."

