

A weekend suicide attack that killed 28 people in Pakistan
highlights the need for cooperation in tackling "terrorists," the
Afghan president said Sunday ahead of a summit with this
Pakistani counterpart.


The attack on Saturday in the North West Frontier Province
bordering Afghanistan was apparently aimed at Interior Minister
Aftab Sherpao, who was slightly wounded.


In a statement released before he flew to Turkey, President Hamid
Karzai expressed sorrow over the incident.


"Afghans have been suffering for years from such terrorist
attacks that have killed elders, teachers, engineers, government
employees and civilians.


"Therefore they understand the pain that the people of Pakistan
suffer," he said.


"This attack highlights the need for cooperation between
Afghanistan and Pakistan in the war against terrorists and
elements who want to destabilise the region."


Karzai later flew out to Turkey where he and Pakistan President
Pervez Musharraf were scheduled to attend a dinner late Sunday
hosted by Turkish President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, followed by a
formal round of bilateral talks on Monday.


The summit is intended to ease tensions between the leaders after
months of recriminations about the growing extremist violence on
both sides of their shared border.


"I'm going there with a lot of hope, with tremendous desire to
have peace in this region," the Afghan president told a meeting
of donors in Kabul Sunday.


"Afghanistan is going to Turkey with a very clean heart, with a
great desire. I hope it will be responded to and reciprocated,"
Karzai said.


"The fight against terror is becoming even more important, and
the cooperation between all of us in this regard becomes more
important."


Karzai has been joined by some Western figures in accusing
Pakistan of not doing enough to round up Taliban and Al-Qaeda
leaders living there and to crack down on extremist groups
training and funding militants.


Kabul has been particularly critical of Islamabad's failure to
stop militants from crossing from Pakistan into Afghanistan to
carry out attacks.


Musharraf has repeatedly stressed that Pakistan, once the main
backer of the Taliban regime, has deployed 90,000 troops in the
tribal areas and set up more than 1,000 military checkposts along
the 2,500-kilometre (1,600-mile) frontier.


The Pakistan military has also begun work on a 35-kilometre fence
on the border after dropping plans to mine the frontier.


The fence has angered Afghanistan, which says it would do nothing
to stop militants and would instead divide families living on
both sides.

