

Protests are taking place around the world Sunday as campaigners
demand that world leaders act to prevent further bloodshed in
Darfur on the fourth anniversary of the conflict's start.


The Global Day for Darfur, organised by a coalition including
Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, will see activists
globally turn over more than 10,000 hourglasses filled with fake
blood.


These are designed to convey the message that delaying
intervention will cost lives in the troubled western region of
Sudan.


The focus of the day was in London, where hundreds of
demonstrators marched on Prime Minister Tony Blair's Downing
Street office to hand in a letter to a government minister.


Activists have also erected a two-metre high hourglass of blood.


Statements of support for the campaign were issued by eight
politicians from the ruling Labour Party who are contenders for
the post of leader and deputy leader when Blair steps down later
this year.


In Rome, hundreds of people took part in a march on the
Colosseum.


There was also a 200-strong protest in Berlin, where marchers
carried alarm clocks and a banner saying: "It is five minutes to
midnight, we're sounding the alarm!"


To coincide with the day, actors and musicians including Elton
John, George Clooney, Bob Geldof, Mick Jagger and Hugh Grant
released a statement calling on the international community to
take "decisive action" over the atrocities.


Amnesty International attacked the "vicious crimes against
humanity" which it said the Sudanese government has allowed to
take place in Darfur.


"Enough is enough. It is time for the rest of the international
community to take effective action," Amnesty's United Kingdom
director Kate Allen said in a statement.


The conflict in Darfur has caused 200,000 deaths and led to two
million people being displaced, according to the United Nations.


Sudan contests the figures, saying that only 9,000 have died.


The United States and Britain have in recent weeks indicated that
their patience with Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir is running
out.


But US President George W Bush agreed earlier this month to
postpone sanctions to give United Nations Secretary General Ban
Ki-moon more time to try and pursue a diplomatic solution.


Although Beshir recently agreed to let 3,000 UN troops to boost
the weak African Union force in Darfur in a first phase
deployment, he has objected to some key elements of the larger
operation.


These include allowing the UN to share command of the forces with
AU counterparts.

