

Italian Danilo Di Luca was under no illusions about the
significance of his achievement after winning the Liege-Bastogne-
Liege one-day classic for the first time here Sunday.


"It's the hardest race in the world. It destroys you," said the
Italian, who finished a few seconds ahead of Spanish ace
Alejandro Valverde after nearly six and a half hours in the
saddle.


Valverde, last year's winner, had made a brave attempt to catch
Di Luca and Luxemburger Frank Schleck as the pair raced up the
final of 12 climbs to the finish line of the 262km one-day
classic, the oldest in existence.


The Spaniard passed Schleck in the final 600 metres, but once on
the home straight he could only watch in despair as Di Luca came
over the finish triumphantly - albeit with a mixture of joy and
pain on his face.


"I felt it was my day, that I had to stay totally focused," added
the Italian after adding the third and final 'Ardennes classic'
to his list having won the Amstel Gold and Fleche Wallonne races
in the past.


"I tried to save my strength as much as possible, but in the end
my legs were totally destroyed."


The last time Di Luca enjoyed similar success during the spring
classics was in 2005, when he won the less prestigious Amstel
Gold Race then went on to finish fourth overall in the Giro
d'Italia, which this year begins on May 12.


"This is a huge victory for me ahead of the Giro," he said.


"To win here, you need to have the legs. And today I showed I'm
in great form. I hope to carry that over to the Giro where I want
to be one of the protagonists as I was in 2005."


It was Schleck who provided the spur for the Italian, by making a
decisive move in the closing six kilometres on a descent leading
to the final climb to Ans.


Di Luca followed the Luxemburger, and they worked together to
hold off a star- packed group of 10 riders.


But when it came to the closing kilometre, the 27-year-old CSC
rider - who later said he had decided to race despite being
diagnosed with a broken rib late on Saturday - had nothing left.


"I think I attacked at the right time and me and Di Luca worked
well together," said Schleck.


"He was just too strong for me on the climb to Ans, but I'm
really happy with my third place.


"It's one of the biggest races in the world. I don't know if I'll
ever win it, but I will be dreaming about it from now on."


World champion and former two-time winner Paolo Bettini of Quick
Step finished fourth ahead of another former champion, Italian
compatriot Davide Rebellin of Gerolsteiner.

