

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice rejected as "flat wrong"
on Sunday assertions by former CIA director George Tenet that
George W. Bush came into office already plotting to invade Iraq
and overthrow Saddam Hussein.


"In the entire period after the president became president, he
was trying to put together and international coalition that could
deal with Iraq," Rice said in an interview on CNN.


She said Bush tried a range of options to counter the perceived
threat posed by Saddam, from "smart sanctions" to tougher no fly
zones and challenging the Iraqi leader before the UN Security
Council.


"This was a period of more than a year and a half of trying to
find other ways to deal with the threat of Saddam Hussein," she
said.


"The idea that the president had made up his mind when he came to
office that he was going to go to war against Iraq is just flat
wrong," she said.


Tenet, who led the Central Intelligence Agency in the runup to
and after the March 2003 invasion of Iraq, said in his book being
released Monday that there was no real debate in the Bush White
House about the threat posed by Saddam's regime.


"There was never a serious debate that I know of within the
administration about the imminence about the Iraqi threat," he
wrote in his memoir "At the Center of the Storm."


"Nor was there ever a significant discussion about enhanced
containment or the costs and benefits of such an approach versus
full out planning for overt and coverte regime change," he said.


Rice strongly contested Tenet's account, saying Bush "met with
George almost every day about the Iraqi threat".


But she sidestepped a query about whether Bush ever questioned
the "imminence" of that threat.


"The question with imminence is not whether someone will strike
tomorrow, but whether you're in a stronger position today to deal
with the threat, or whether you're going to be in a stronger
position tomorrow," she said.


Rice also denied laying the blame on Tenet for the bungled use of
intelligence that mistakenly claimed Saddam was actively
developing weapons of mass destruction -- initially the main Bush
justification for going to war.


In his book, Tenet accused Rice and others of citing his use of
the basketball term "slam dunk" -- an uncontested shot executed
with dramatic flair -- during a pre-war White House discussion of
the WMD intelligence to justify the decision to go to war.


"I'm sorry that George feels that people are using the 'slam
dunk' comment in that way," she said.


"We all thought the intelligence case was strong," she said.


"To the degree that there was an intelligence problem, it was not
not just an intelligence problem with George Tenet ... it was an
intelligence problem worldwide," she said.

