

Iran announced on Sunday that it will attend a key conference on
Iraq's security in Egypt alongside arch-enemy the United States
this week, ending weeks of uncertainty over its involvement.


Officials in Tehran and Baghdad said Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki spoke to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on the
telephone to ask Tehran to take part in the conference and
Ahmadinejad agreed.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran confirmed that it would attend the
two conferences in Sharm el-Sheikh to assist Iraq at the level of
foreign ministers," Maliki's office said in a statement.


"Ahmadinejad, taking into account Iran's support of the
popularly-elected government of Iraq, said that Iran will take
part at the level of foreign minister," an official from
Ahmadinejad's office told AFP..


The decision for Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki to represent
Iran at the conference in the Egyptian Red Sea resort came after
a flurry of diplomatic activity aimed at persuading Tehran to
take part.


Mottaki's participation raises the possibility he could hold rare
bilateral contacts with US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
although Tehran has refused to discuss this issue until its
participation was confirmed.


US President George W. Bush has said that Rice, who is also set
to attend the conference, "could" hold talks with Mottaki at the
Red Sea resort should Iran decide to participate.


Tehran had shown a reluctance to sign up for the May 3-4
conference in Sharm el- Sheikh, citing unhappiness with the
decision to include world powers such as the United States
alongside Iraq's neighbours.


Iraqi officials have been seeking to persuade Tehran to take
part, and Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari held talks last
week in Tehran with Mottaki.


Tehran's attendance also appeared to be complicated by the
continued detention by Washington in Iraq of five Iranian
officials it arrested in January on accusations of seeking to
stir trouble there.


Iran's top national security official Ali Larijani arrived in
Baghdad on Sunday afternoon for a three-day visit to discuss the
conference and other issues on a previously unannounced mission,
state television said,


"The visit of Mr Larijani is in the framework of bilateral
relations. He will probably talk about security questions and the
international conference," foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad
Ali Hosseini told reporters.


A visit by Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh to Tehran
later on Sunday was cancelled after Larijani decided to go to
Iraq himself, state media reported.


Zebari's visit failed to win a clear pledge from Iran to attend
the conference, but there had been mounting calls from
influential voices inside Iran for Tehran to participate.


Former foreign minister Kamal Kharazi, who is now a member of the
strategic foreign policy council that advises the Islamic
republic's supreme leader, said on Friday that Iran should attend
the conference for the sake of Iraq.


Any meeting between Rice and Mottaki would mark a rare high-level
contact between the two foes who have had no diplomatic relations
since Washington cut ties in 1980 over the seizure of the US
embassy in Tehran by radical students.


Washington accuses Tehran of fomenting violence in Iraq by arming
and training extremist factions, a charge denied by Iran, and the
long-time foes are also at loggerheads over the Iranian nuclear
programme.


The last such bilateral contact was when then foreign minister
Kharazi and US secretary of state Colin Powell found themselves
placed next to each other by their Egyptian hosts at dinner at a
similar Iraq conference in November 2004.


US officials said at the time the two engaged in "polite"
conversation but discussed nothing of substance.

