

Werder Bremen coach Thomas Schaaf rued his side's missed golden
opportunity to go top of the Bundesliga on Sunday as they crashed
to a shock 3-2 defeat at relegation-threatened Arminia Bielefeld.


With three games left to go and league-leaders Schalke 04 losing
2-1 to VfL Bochum on Friday night, third-placed Bremen passed up
the chance to leap-frog their rivals and re-take the top spot
they last held in January.


Although Schalke boss Mirko Slomka had gloomily predicted after
Friday's defeat that his side would lose their place at the top
of the Bundesliga on Sunday, Bremen proved him wrong.


The guests twice came from behind, but the exertions of their 3-0
UEFA Cup first-leg semi-final defeat at Espanyol on Thursday
night had clearly taken its toll.


"Thursday night's game had clearly taken it's toll, but that's
not an excuse," said Schaaf.


"We lost the ball too easily and we didn't do enough to win it
back.


"It would have been nice if we had taken our chance to go top,
but it means the title race will probably go down to the wire."


Bielefeld went 1-0 up when defender Heiko Westermann scored after
30 minutes until German striker Miroslav Klose - who has been
linked with a move away to rivals Bayern Munich or even Juventus
in Italy - equalised in the 58th minute.


Danish midfielder Jonas Kamper fired his side into the lead just
a minute later, only to see Bremen's Hugo Almeida draw Bremen
level on 74 minutes.


But Bielefeld striker Christian Eigler struck with just over ten
minutes left to seal their second consecutive win which take them
up three places to 13th.


Their coach Ernst Middendorp, who only returned to Bielefeld last
month to try and steer them away from relegation, was delighted
with another three points.


"It is incredible," he said.


"We have seen the light at the end of the tunnel to our safety.
This was a small step. We need even more points, but I am quite
sure we can get them."


But with Bremen and Schalke both losing, VfB Stuttgart have come
back into the title race after their 1-0 win over bottom-side
Borussia Monchengladbach - who are now sure to be relegated - on
Saturday pushed them into second place.


Midfielder Roberto Hilbert's 53rd minute goal was enough to give
Stuttgart the three points.


Their win means Bayern Munich are now virtually sure to miss out
on a Champions League place next season after they lost 2-1 at
home to Hamburg.


The defeat leaves Bayern in fourth, seven points behind third-
placed Bremen with three games left.


Mid-table Energie Cottbus had Karim Haggui to thank for their 2-1
win over Bayer Leverkusen after his 84th minute winner on Sunday.


Cottbus' Romanian striker Sergiu Radu grabbed an early goal after
eight minutes, before Bayer striker Stefan Kiessling equalised
with a header just before half- time.


Hertha Berlin trounced hosts Alemannia Aachen 4-0 to go seventh
in the league while VfL Wolfsburg drew 1-1 at Nuremberg.


Midtable Hanover enjoyed a comfortable 2-1 win at second-from-
bottom Mainz 05.


And Thomas Doll's Borussia Dortmund moved away from the
relegation dog-fight as Swiss international Alexander Frei struck
either side of half-time to seal a 2-0 win over Eintracht which
leaves them 12th, five points from the drop zone.

