

Arsene Wenger has revealed he wants to appoint an Englishman as
Arsenal's director of football.


Wenger is hunting a replacement for former Gunners vice-chairman
David Dein, who left the club earlier this month after falling
out with his fellow directors over a potential takeover from
American tycoon Stan Kroenke.


Dein played a key role in helping Wenger with transfers and the
club's board have told the French coach he can choose the man he
wants to work with.


Wenger had been linked with Tottenham's sporting director Damien
Comolli, who was previously an Arsenal scout, and Henri
Biancheri, who worked with Wenger at Monaco.


But the Arsenal manager believes it is vital to employ someone
who has been brought up in English football.


"I will be appointing a Director of Football to deal with a lot
of the work that David did at the club," he told Arsenal's
programme for the match against Fulham.


"At the moment I don't have anyone in mind for the position,
there is no hurry to bring somebody in, but I have to say I am
thinking about employing someone from this country, so that they
know the rules and regulations of the Premiership and English
football.


"They are my first thoughts, but I am still open minded to it and
nothing has been decided yet.


"Whoever takes the job though will have to be a good
communicator, know English football well, and be experienced in
negotiating.


"In the job he will be doing every decision will be vital and a
bad decision could cost the club millions, so we have to get the
appointment right."


Meanwhile, Arsenal director Danny Fiszman warned Kroenke that he
will never get his hands on the London club.


Kroenke owns 12.19 percent of shares in Arsenal and is believed
to be considering joining forces with Dein to mount a hostile
takeover.


But Fiszman cast doubt over Kroenke's ability to get the
necessary shares and told Sky Sports: "The board has 45 and half
percent of the shares and we also obviously have friends which
takes us over 50 percent, so they can mount a hostile bid, but
they are never going to get control of the club.


"The future of the club is in the hands of the board.


"In the end all of the money that will be invested has to have a
return. I will listen to anything that will improve the club but
it will be very difficult to explain to me and the rest of the
board how you can make a substantial investment of 500 or 600
million pounds and expect a return from that.


"An eight or ten percent return would be 50 million which has got
to come out of the club. I don't know how they are going to
improve the finances of the club by that sort of amount."


Fiszman insisted Wenger will be strongly backed by the board in
the transfer market and added: "We don't think the ownership is
in question The board will continue to back Arsene. If he wants
another two or three players, then the board will support him."

