

Werder Bremen blew a golden opportunity to go top of the
Bundesliga on Sunday as they crashed to a shock 3-2 defeat at
relegation-threatened Arminia Bielefeld.


With three games left to go and, league-leaders Schalke 04 losing
2-1 to VfL Bochum on Friday night, third-placed Bremen passed up
the chance to leap-frog their rivals and re-take the top spot
they last held in January.


Although Bremen equalised twice, Bielefeld were worthy winners in
an electric game with both sides creating plenty of chances.


Bielefeld went 1-0 up when defender Heiko Westermann scored after
30 minutes until German striker Miroslav Klose - who has been
linked with a move away to rivals Bayern Munich or even Juventus
in Italy - equalised in the 58th minute.


Danish midfielder Jonas Kamper fired his side into the lead just
a minute later, only to see Bremen's Hugo Almeida draw Bremen
level on 74 minutes.


But Bielefeld striker Christian Eigler struck with just over ten
minutes left to seal the win and take his side up three places to
13th.


But with Bremen and Schalke both losing, Stuttgart have come back
into the title race after their 1-0 win over bottom-side Borussia
Monchengladbach - who are now sure to be relegated - on Saturday
pushed them into second place.


Midfielder Roberto Hilbert's 53rd minute goal was enough to give
Stuttgart the three points.


Stuttgart's win means Bayern Munich are now virtually sure to
miss out on a Champions League place next season after they lost
2-1 at home to Hamburg.


The defeat leaves Bayern in fourth, seven points behind third-
placed Bremen with three games left.


Mid-table Energie Cottbus had Karim Haggui to thank for their 2-1
win over Bayer Leverkusen after his 84th minute winner on Sunday.


Cottbus' Romanian striker Sergiu Radu grabbed an early goal after
eight minutes, before Bayer striker Stefan Kiessling equalised
with a header just before half- time.


Hertha Berlin trounced hosts Alemannia Aachen 4-0 to go seventh
in the league while VfL Wolfsburg drew 1-1 at Nuremberg.


Midtable Hanover enjoyed a comfortable 2-1 win at second-from-
bottom Mainz 05.


And Thomas Doll's Borussia Dortmund moved away from the
relegation dog-fight as Swiss international Alexander Frei struck
either side of half-time to seal a 2-0 win over Eintracht which
leaves them 12th, five points from the drop zone.

