

Honours were even in the Rome derby on Sunday with Lazio and Roma
playing out a drab goalless draw at the Olympic stadium.


Roma, who are virtually assured of second place in Serie A,
enjoyed the lion's share of the possession but failed to turn
their domination into goals against their arch rivals.


Lazio were grateful to their veteran keeper Angelo Peruzzi for
two outstanding saves to deny Brazilian winger Mancini and Roma
substitute Mirko Vucinic in the closing stages.


A point left Roma on 69 points, 11 clear of fourth-placed Lazio
who still have work to do in their final four games to secure a
place in the third qualifying round of next season's Champions
League.


Parma and Reggina boosted their hopes of surviving the drop with
important wins. A late penalty scored by Andrea Gasbarroni sealed
a 2-1 home victory for Parma against fellow strugglers Cagliari,
while veteran forward Nicola Amoruso netted twice in Reggina's
3-2 win at bottom club Ascoli.


Messina, however, remain deep in the mire after being held to a
0-0 draw at home to Atalanta.


Palermo won 2-1 at Livorno to give new coach Renzo Gobbo a
winning start and keep the Sicilian side in the hunt for a top-
four finish, and Sampdoria improved their hopes of securing a
UEFA Cup place by beating Siena 2-0.


Catania edged Udinese 1-0 while in Sunday's late match, champions
Inter Milan, who clinched the title last weekend, host Empoli at
the San Siro.


On Saturday AC Milan won 1-0 at Torino where Dutch midfielder
Clarence Seedorf scored the only goal of the game in the 26th
minute.


With one eye on the return leg of their Champions League semi-
final against Manchester United at the San Siro on Wednesday, AC
Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti rested a number of his big name
stars.


Brazilian star Kaka, who scored twice in the 3-2 first leg defeat
to the English Premiership leaders last Tuesday, stayed on the
bench for the entire match.


Milan's win on Saturday left them in third place on 59 points,
seven clear of fifth-placed Palermo.


Milan were docked eight points this season for their involvement
in last summer's match-fixing scandal.


The top two in Serie A go directly into the Champions League
group stages, while the teams finishing third and fourth will
join the competition in the third and final qualifying round.


In Saturday's other match, Fiorentina, stung by a 15-point
deduction for their match-rigging crimes, beat Chievo 1-0.
Fiorentina's victory moved them up to sixth on 50 points.

