

Arsenal striker Emmanuel Adebayor plunged Fulham deeper into
relegation trouble as his late goal set up a 3-1 win over Lawrie
Sanchez's struggling side on Sunday.


Fulham had looked set to snatch a crucial point when Simon Davies
cancelled out Julio Baptista's early goal at the Emirates
Stadium. But Adebayor's sublime strike left Fulham heartbroken
and Gilberto Silva rubbed salt into their wounds with a penalty
in the final moments.


The west London club sit uncomfortably just a point above the
relegation zone after their 10th match without a win.


The decision to sack Chris Coleman earlier this month and hire
Northern Ireland coach Sanchez has failed to bring the upturn in
fortunes Fulham's board had hoped for.


Fulham now face a nervous finale to the season as they try to
scrape the points they need for survival in their last two
matches against Liverpool and Middlesbrough.


Bolton and Everton's failure to win on Saturday had guaranteed
Arsenal the top four finish that brings entry into next season's
Champions League. With no pressure weighing down on them, Arsene
Wenger's side started brightly.


They were ahead after just four minutes and it was a surprise it
took that long.


Kolo Toure's long ball picked out Adebayor and the Togo striker
exchanged passes with Alexander Hleb before crossing to Baptista,
who rose above Liam Rosenior and buried his header into the
bottom corner.


Baptista should have doubled the lead in the 15th minute after a
typically flowing move carved open the Fulham defence.


Gael Clichy and Cesc Fabregas combined to give the on-loan Real
Madrid midfielder a clear sight of goal but he screwed his shot
well wide.


Baptista has only scored three league goals for Arsenal and it
was easy to see why. If the Brazilian's shooting had been more
accurate he could have had a hat- trick within 20 minutes as he
squandered another chance created by Fabregas.


But Arsenal's habit of dominating teams without killing them off
has been a recurring problem this season and, once again, they
showed they are yet to discover a killer instinct.


Fulham were completely overwhelmed, but the Gunners were unable
to find a way to beat Antti Niemi for a second time.


Hleb teed up Fabregas just inside the area, but the Spaniard's
low shot was palmed away by Niemi. Then Adebayor's powerful
header from Clichy's cross was arrowing towards the top corner
until Niemi plunged to his right to push it clear.


Adebayor then showed great dexterity to trick Zat Knight but,
with just Niemi to beat, he blazed high and wide.


Fulham's Danish midfielder Claus Jensen, making his first
Premiership appearance since December, finally brought his
moribund side to life with a low drive that skimmed wide.


They pushed forward with increasing belief without really
threatening to score until Lehmann gifted them an equaliser in
the 78th minute.


The Germany goalkeeper made a complete hash of his punch as he
raced off his line to challenge with Heidar Helguson for a deep
cross. The ball fell to Davies on the edge of the area and he
looped a perfectly-placed shot over Toure and into the net.


Clint Dempsey and Michael Brown both wasted chances to put Fulham
ahead before Adebayor capped a thrilling finale.


Fabregas's 84th minute pass released Adebayor and he surged past
Philippe Christanval before curling a superb strike into the far
corner.


Gilberto wrapped up the points with three minutes to play when he
stroked home a penalty after Moritz Volz had clumsily brought
down Hleb.

