

China's central bank on Sunday ordered major commercial banks to
set aside more money in reserves in an effort to slow its economy
after higher-than-expected first-quarter growth figures.


The required reserve ratio will rise by 50 basis points to 11
percent with effect from May 15, the People's Bank of China
announced in a brief statement on its website, but government-
employed economists said more might be needed.


"Raising the reserve ratio is a rather easy and flexible measure
for the central bank," said Wang Xiaoguang, an economist at the
National Development and Reform Commission, according to Xinhua
news agency.


"But it might need to raise interest rates if the nation's strong
economic momentum and inflationary pressures continue in the
second quarter."


Speculation had been rife that the government would announce more
tightening measures after it unveiled 11.1 percent economic
growth in the first three months of the year.


The world's fourth-largest economy is fuelled by a potent mix of
exports and investments, and monetary measures such as this are
meant to reduce liquidity, which drives the massive spending on
new investment projects.


It is the fourth time the central bank has hiked the required
reserve ratio since the start of this year, and the seventh time
since June 2006.


It is estimated that each time China hikes the reserve ratio by
50 basis points, it freezes at least 150 billion yuan (19 billion
dollars) in the banking system.


Interest rates are a much more forceful monetary weapon, and the
government tends to use it much less frequently.


Last month, however, authorities raised the benchmark one-year
lending rate by 0.27 percentage points.


The central bank is fighting a rising tide of liquidity stemming
from export earnings, as well as outstanding sterilisation paper
that is reaching maturity.


Sterilisation is a technical term for central bank operations
aimed at curbing liquidity rising as a result of an influx of
foreign funds in a tightly controlled exchange rate regime such
as China's.


The announcement of the hike in the reserve ratio also followed
March inflation figures showing a 3.3-percent spike in consumer
prices from a year earlier.


The rise, the highest in more than two years, was "well beyond"
the comfortable target of three percent set by the Chinese
government for the year, Xinhua said.


Li Xiaochao, spokesman of the National Bureau of Statistics,
warned earlier this month that if this trend continued, there was
a risk of shifting "from fast growth to overheating."


"What the central bank will do is largely determined by the
inflation level," said Sun Mingchun, a Hong Kong-based economist
with Lehman Brothers.


"We expect the inflation for the full year to be 2.8 percent,
still below the three percent target set by the central bank."


While consumer inflation was 3.3 percent in March, if rising food
prices are deducted, it would only have been 1.1 percent, which
is "definitely a manageable level," he argued.

