

Rebels in Sri Lanka bombed petroleum depots owned by Shell and
Indian Oil in air strikes Sunday near the troubled island's
capital, officials said.


Planes flown by Tamil Tiger guerrillas dropped four bombs on two
depots located along the Colombo suburbs of Kolonnawa and
Muthurajawela, the defence ministry said.


Both facilities suffered damage, but there was no loss of life,
officials said.


The first strike was on a petroleum facility jointly owned by
Indian Oil Corporation and the Sri Lankan government. The other
attack was on the storage facility of the Anglo-Dutch multi-
national Shell.


Indian Oil Corporation, which controls a third of Sri Lanka's
retail fuel market, said the attack was a "bad sign, irrespective
of which country owned the facility."


"Fortunately, nothing much happened and we will be operating
without any disturbance," said K. Ramakrishnan, its managing
director for Sri Lanka.


Shell said it did not believe the rebel attack was aimed at its
terminals or the oil major's presence in the island. Shell shares
premises with a government oil storage plant.


"This is a new development. Shell always comes in for the long
haul. The company is evaluating this situation because we do not
believe the attack was aimed at us," said Rimoe Saldin, Shell's
finance director.


Both the Fortune 500 companies' bombed units are situated beside
government-run oil refinery and storage complexes. The entire
area is heavily guarded.


The Tamil Tigers said they hit the two facilities to stop fuel
supplies to military aircraft that bomb rebel-held territory on a
regular basis.


The guerrillas launched a suicide bombing on the Kolonnawa oil
facility in October 1995.


Sri Lankan forces have been on high alert since the rebels
carried out their first air strike in March.


Violence has flared on the tropical island since December 2005,
killing more than 4,000 people, despite a 2002 truce that is now
viewed as moribund.


The guerrillas' 35 year campaign for an independent state for the
island's ethnic Tamil minority has claimed over 60,000 lives.

