

Japan scored 13 tries to overwhelm Hong Kong 73-3 and win the
three-nations rugby tournament on Sunday.


The home side took the lead from the start when Toshiaki Hirose
touched down after just one-and-a-half minutes before adding four
more tries to end the first half 27-3.


Hong Kong scrum half Robert Naylor, who failed to cash in on a
penalty chance from close to the centre line in the 19th minute,
managed to go between the posts at his second attempt during the
first-half injury time.


Hirose again needed only one minute to score his second try in
the second half and in the end 10 different players were on
target with left flanker Yasunori Watanabe and left winger Tomoki
Kitagawa also scoring twice.


However, full back Go Aruga and his replacement Eiji Ando managed
to convert only four times.


"I was really pleased," said Japan coach and All Blacks legend
John Kirwan. "I felt the team in the first half was probably a
little nervous, because it was the first game for a lot of
players."


"After last week, there's been quite a lot of internal pressure
for the players. But I'm very pleased with the way the team
improved in the second half. Last week, we lost shape in the
second half, so it got better. That was very pleasant."


Last week, Kirwan was satisfied with only the first-half
performance, although Japan whitewashed South Korea 82-0.


The Japanese, who will take part in the World Cup later this
year, will challenge Classic All Blacks on May 9 and 12, and
Kirwan said he would use the same tactics against them.


"I want to see the same kind of game play, and the more pressure.
When we have the ball I want our side to have courage to keep
implementing our Japanese style of game," said Kirwan.


Hong Kong coach Ivan Torpey and captain Tom Cameron appeared
satisfied with their performance with eight new caps despite the
defeat.


"Japan was really strong in the second half and line up. But I'm
very, very pleased and proud of our young players. They played
with us for the first time. Japan helped us to focus on a few
problems that we have to solve," Cameron said.


Torpey added that he hoped to avenge their 23-5 defeat to South
Korea in the last match at home on May 28.

