

More than one million people took part in a mass rally here
Sunday in support of secularism and democracy amid a tense stand-
off between the Islamist-rooted government and the army over
presidential elections.


The crowd, carrying red-and-white Turkish flags and portraits of
founding father Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, filled Istanbul's
sprawling Caglayan square in a demonstration organized by some
600 non-governmental organizations.


"Turkey is secular and will remain secular," "Neither Sharia, nor
coup d'etat, democratic Turkey," they chanted.


Police at the scene told AFP that the number of demonstrators was
well over one million. Organizers said the rally drew people from
all over Turkey and abroad.


The Istanbul demonstration followed a similar one in Ankara on
April 14 that attracted up to 1.5 million people, according to
some estimates.


Tensions rose after Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a former
Islamist from the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP),
narrowly missed becoming the country's next president in a first
round of voting in parliament on Friday.


The AKP dominates the 550-seat parliament, but does not have the
required two- thirds majority to get Gul elected in the first two
rounds of voting.


The opposition boycotted the vote because of Gul's Islamist past
and because they were not consulted on his candiacy for the non-
partisan post.


The army, which has carried out three coups in the past, issued a
statement saying it was determined to protect Turkey's secular
system and was ready to take action if the need arose, making it
clear, according to many analysts, that Gul's candidacy was not
welcome.


The government responded by calling the army to order and Gul on
Sunday ruled out withdrawing his presidential bid.


"It is out of the question for me to withdraw my candidacy in any
way," he told reporters in Ankara.


The prospect of Gul becoming head of state has alarmed
secularists who fear the strict separation of state and religion
will be eroded and Islam will creep into all fields of life if he
is elected.


The main opposition Republican People's Party has asked the
Constitutional Court to cancel Friday's presidential vote in
parliament, arguing that the assembly did not have the necessary
quorum to open the voting session.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections set for November
4 could be brought forward.


If does not, Gul could be elected president in a third round of
voting on May 9, when an absolute majority of 276 votes would
suffice, compared to the two-thirds majority of 367 required for
the first two rounds.


"We all need to await the decision of the Constitutional Court,"
Gul said. "The court will undoubtedly make the best evaluation
and reach the right decision."


Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan served in now-defunct
Islamist parties before setting up the AKP in 2001.


They say they have disawoved their Islamist roots and are now
committed to secular principles.


But secularists suspect the AKP of harbouring a secret Islamic
agenda, citing its unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery,
restrict alcohol sales and lift a ban on Islamic headscarves in
government offices.


They fear the government will have a free hand to implement
Islamist policies if the party controls the presidency.


The Turkish press on Sunday was unanimous in calling on the
government and the army to resolve their differences
democratically and said early elections were the only way to
prevent the country from plunging into chaos.


"Turkey either giving up on secularism or suspending democracy
are two doomsday scenarios impossible to choose between," the
popular daily Vatan said.


The liberal daily Milliyet said the army's warning had "cast a
shadow on the credibility and respectability of civilian
institutions."


"The latest developments show that the current term of parliament
has reached the end of its natural life. Elections should be held
at once," it added.

