

Croatia's former premier Ivica Racan, who has died of cancer on
Sunday, was a moderate and tolerant politician who brought the
country closer to the European Union ending its international
isolation.


Former Marxist, who had been at the helm of the Social Democratic
Party (SDP) since it was formed ahead of the break-up of the
former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, will be also remembered as a true
democrat who allowed a peaceful transition from communism.


His coalition government, in power between 2000 and 2003, is
credited with ending Croatia's international isolation after
years of autocratic rule by the late nationalist president Franjo
Tudjman, who died in 1999.


Zagreb then took the first steps towards fully fledged membership
in the EU, which the current conservative government continued
with opening of negotiations in 2005.


Racan is also highly respected as one of the rare politicians in
the Balkans whose long political career was not marred by any
corruption scandal.


He was born in February 1944 in the German town of Ebersbach, in
a labour camp where the family had been deported. His father had
been killed, but a German family saved his pregnant mother's
life.


Racan joined the Communist Party at the age of 16. After studying
law at Zagreb University he embarked on a political career in
1974 when he was elected to the presidency of the Croatian
Communist Party Central Committee.


From 1986 to 1989 he was a member of the presidency of the
Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia.


He was among the first, along with party members from Slovenia,
to move towards political pluralism.


Seen as a figure of reason and tolerance, Racan headed the
Croatian delegation at the January 1990 Yugoslav Communist Party
Congress in Belgrade where it, along with the Slovenes, refused
to bow to the then Serbian party leader, Slobodan Milosevic. The
Croatian delegation walked out, heralding the break-up of
Yugoslavia.


After Croatia's first post-communist elections in April and May
1990, Racan accepted a peaceful transfer of power to the Croatian
Democratic Union, headed by Tudjman, and withdrew into
opposition.


During its 10 years in opposition under Racan's guidance, the
Communist Party shed first its name, eventually becoming the
Social Democrats, and then its ideology.


"I am proud of values -- morality, work, integrity and tolerance
which we built into political life of (Croatia). I did as much as
I knew and could," read Racan's letter of resignation as party
head earlier this month.

