

Ireland is to hold a general election on May 24, officials said
Sunday, in which Prime Minister Bertie Ahern will be bidding for
a record third term in office.


Ahern asked President Mary McAleese to dissolve the country's
Dail (lower house of parliament) in a surprise early morning
visit to her official residence on the outskirts of Dublin.


In a statement, he said his centrist Fianna Fail party, which has
been in a coalition government with the liberal Progressive
Democrats since 1997, would build on the policies which have fed
Ireland's "Celtic Tiger" boom.


Ahern has overseen the country's transformation from economic
strugglers to a prosperous nation which attracts immigrants from
all around the world.


"This election is about Ireland's future, protecting the progress
we have made over the last 10 years," he said.


"Our ambitions for our nation are bold. If the people return us
to government, we will seek to end poverty in Ireland in our next
term, while continuing to reduce substantially the net national
debt," Ahern added.


"Defending Ireland's prosperity has never been more important
than it is today, at a time when rising interest rates, energy
costs and increased global competition threaten our economy."


Internationally, Ahern is best known for his work alongside
British Prime Minister Tony Blair to resolve the conflict in
Northern Ireland and he pledged to keep working "for a lasting
peace and for unity".


Devolved government is to be restored to the British province on
May 8 following an historic agreement between Ian Paisley's
Protestant Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and the Catholic Sinn
Fein, led by Gerry Adams.


But despite his high profile on the world stage, opinion polls
suggest that Ahern is facing a struggle to secure a third term
amid voter concern about the health service and crime.


Surveys point to a neck-and-neck race between the Fianna Fail-
Progressive Democrats partnership and an alternative alliance of
the centre-right Fine Gael and centre-left Labour and possibly
Green opposition parties.


This could mean that a new coalition alliance emerges after the
poll.


An election had to be held by early June, and McAleese agreed to
dissolve the Dail and summon the new parliament on June 14
shortly before she left for a five-day visit to the United States
Sunday.


Announcement of the poll follows weeks of speculation, with all
political parties already pledging generous tax cuts, public
spending increases, or both.


Ahern's coalition has been the longest-lasting government since
World War II. His two governments have been the first to complete
full, consecutive terms in Irish history.


He will be 56 in September and has said he will remain active in
politics until he is 60.


Ahern has been nicknamed the Teflon Taoiseach -- the Gaelic name
for prime minister which translates as chieftain -- because
scandals do not seem to rub off on him and he has maintained a
reputation as a man of the people.


The prime minister's glamorous personal life also provides a
talking point for voters -- one of his two daughters, Georgina,
is married to Nicky Byrne, a member of boyband Westlife.


His other daughter, Cecelia, is a millionaire novelist, while he
is separated from wife Miriam.


Ireland has around three million voters.

