

As the southern city of Karbala on Sunday mourned the victims of
a massive car bomb that killed more than 70 people, Iraq's
politicians lashed out across sectarian lines to apportion blame.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's Dawa Party laid responsibility
with Sunni religious extremists and Saddam Hussein loyalists for
Saturday's blast on a crowded street outside a major Shiite
shrine.


The "Takfiris (Sunni extremists) and the orphans of the
tyrannical regime with their perverse ideas and dark fatwas
(religious rulings) continue to assail the foundations of the
just nation that honourable people are trying to build in Iraq,"
it said.


Meanwhile the Association of Muslim Scholars, a Sunni grouping,
condemned the "terrorist crime" but insisted that the "occupation
and the present government bear full responsibility."


The attack bore the telltale signs of the country's Sunni
insurgency, which has carried out a series of spectacular attacks
in recent weeks, including another in Karbala, where a car bomb
killed 42 people two weeks ago.


The attack delivered yet another blow to a security plan unveiled
in February, which US officials say has reduced sectarian
killings but has failed to halt a series of massive car bomb
attacks.


With the clampdown in force in Baghdad, violence has spread to
other areas as insurgents seek more accessible targets.


In Karbala itself, many residents blamed local authorities for
failing to protect them, further eroding the popularity of the
Shiite dominated Maliki government.


"How did this vehicle enter the fortified city and get past the
checkpoints?" said Ali Mohammed al-Wazny, a local cafe owner. "It
means that the security forces are infiltrated and must be
purified or replaced."


Dawa, on the other hand, said the attack was deliberately
intended to undermine the security plan, which "has revealed the
weakness of the terrorists and those who aid them in order to
spread sectarianism."


"The plan has also revealed that the force of an iron fist coming
down on the hands of these killers is essential for protecting
all Iraqis," the statement added.


But as they appealed for national unity Sunni and Shiite parties
continued to blame the bloodshed on their political opponents,
reflecting the deep divisions rending Iraqi society as a whole.


The Association of Muslim Scholars warned Iraqis of the
"sectarian danger" confronting them, while the Dawa Party called
on them "to be alert to the plans to foment sectarian divisions."

