

Disappointed Sri Lankan cricket fans drew solace Sunday from
their team's performance despite seeing them lose to Australia in
the World Cup final.


The team responded well when rain forced the match to be cut
short to 38 overs, which upset their momentum and favoured
Australia, the fans said.


"We are a side playing very orthodox cricket with a natural
flair. The overs restriction was something that was not in our
game plan," said Hashan Tillekeratne, a member of the Sri Lankan
team that won the World Cup in 1996.


Popular commentator Roshan Abeysinghe said the shortened innings
suited Australia's attacking batsmen.


"We do not have the players to play the power game required in
that type of scenario -- the 38 over slog was tailor made for
them," the Sri Lankan said.


Australia completed a 53-run victory on the Duckworth-Lewis
method in virtual darkness at the Kensington Oval in Barbados on
Saturday, winning the World Cup for a record third successive
time.


Adam Gilchrist's blitzkrieg was a key factor in the match, said
coach and cricket writer Ranjan Paranavithana.


"He was unstoppable and was playing the same sort of destructive
innings played by Clive Lloyd and Viv Richards in previous cup
finals," he said.


Sri Lanka's bowlers contained Matthew Hayden and Ricky Ponting
relatively well, but Gilchrist's superlative performance took
them by surprise, Paranavithana said.


The island nation's fans believe the Sri Lankans faced a team
simply too good for them on the day.


"I feel sorry for them. They did try their best and it is not a
disgrace," said Sonali Perera, a bank employee.


She and her colleagues would greet the team on its return despite
the loss, Perera said.


Elderly fan Stanley Weerasinghe said everyone knew the
Australians were powerful and blamed bad luck.


"Sri Lankans just did not have the luck. They will be a powerful
team at the next World Cup with only Jayasuriya, Muralitharan and
Atapattu likely to retire by then," he said.


Sri Lanka's captain Mahela Jayawardena was unlucky with the toss
and if it had not rained and Sri Lanka had batted first, then it
would surely have been a different result, argued university
student Dinum Pathirage.


Sri Lanka's president congratulated the national team's World Cup
effort and pledged to help the side prepare for the future.


"I congratulate the captain and members of the Sri Lanka cricket
team on the success in finishing as runners-up in the ICC World
Cup 2007 tournament," Rajapakse said in a statement at the end of
the two-month competition.


Sri Lanka's Buddhists, Hindus, Christian and Muslims alike had
organised religious services to bless the national team and pray
for their success.


Cricket, hugely popular in Sri Lanka, is one of the few things
cutting across ethnic and religious differences on the troubled
island.


Fans dressed in the Sri Lankan team's colours and waving the
national flag braved rain to gather in their hundreds at
playgrounds, clubs, hotels and bars showing live coverage of the
match on giant screens.


But the party mood was punctured by Sri Lanka's Tamil Tiger
rebels, who carried out air attacks on the capital, Colombo,
during the match, forcing some people watching the game to flee
for safety.


The rebels' campaign for a separate homeland in Sri Lanka has
claimed more than 60,000 lives over the past 35 years.

