

Egyptians vote Monday on controversial constitutional changes
which have drawn unusual US criticism and prompted calls by the
opposition to boycott the referendum.


The regime says the amendments fulfil President Hosni Mubarak's
promise for democratic change and are crucial to the country and
the region's security.


Critics lambast them as a major setback for basic freedoms and
merely a bid by the regime to put a lid on the Islamist
opposition's growing popularity whilst ensuring a smooth
transition from Mubarak to his son Gamal.


Turnout was expected to be low due to a boycott by a united
opposition front and an abbreviated campaign by the government,
which pushed the amendments through the ruling party-dominated
parliament only a week ago.


"These changes are crucial for the future of the country,"
Mubarak said Saturday at a rally in southern Egypt.


"The constitutional amendments... should prevent trading in
religion and illegitimate political activity and safeguard the
nation against the threat of terrorism," he said.


During the speech, Mubarak dismissed US criticism of the proposed
amendments after US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice voiced
her reservations.


En route to Egypt for a meeting with Mubarak and Arab foreign
ministers, Rice told reporters that Egypt had generated "certain
expectations" for improving democracy "and the hope was that it
would be a process that gave voice to all Egyptians".


"I think there's some danger that hope is not going to be met,"
she said in reference to the amendments.


Most of the 34 articles being amended remove references to
socialism.


But the changes also allow the authorities to arrest terrorism
suspects without warrant and refer them to military courts and
reduce judicial oversight of elections.


One amendment bans political activity based on religion.


"My simple answer is this prohibition is already in our
legislation for years and years and years," Gamal Mubarak told
AFP in an interview on Sunday.


"All that the president did is elevate that very important
principle to the constitution."


Voting is to kick off at 8:00 am (0600 GMT) in close to 10,000
polling stations nationwide.


The Muslim Brotherhood, which sees itself as the main target of
the amended constitution has called for a boycott, arguing that
the regime will tamper with the results anyway.


Secular opposition groups have joined the boycott call and staged
several demonstrations across the country over the weekend.


Several arrests were made in central Cairo on Sunday as police
sought to prevent a few dozen demonstrators from gathering.


The Muslim Brotherhood even suggested a boycott of the referendum
was a religious obligation but the country's top religious
authority hit back by arguing that participating in the vote was
a "duty to God."


The imam of Al-Azhar, Sheikh Mohammed Sayed Tantawi, said
"everyone should go to the polling stations and vote," his
spokesman Sheikh Abdallah Megawer told AFP. "This boycott is
negative," he said. "Boycotting leads nowhere."


The latest referendum to take place in Egypt was in May 2005 when
Mubarak proposed a constitutional amendment that paved the way
for the country's first pluralist presidential election.


Turnout was put officially at 53 percent but experts and
observers said it barely exceeded three percent.


Turnout was also expected to be low in Monday's referendum, which
takes place only a week after the changes proposed by the
president were rushed through parliament.


"If you're talking in percentage terms, it's going to be
somewhere in the twenties," Gamal Mubarak predicted.

