

Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Fein leaders are likely to
meet later on Monday ahead of a midnight deadline on restoring
power sharing in Northern Ireland, DUP and British government
sources told AFP.


"Our approach is to get to the point where the parties engage
directly. My sense is that is the case, and that it will happen,"
said the government source.


"Things look reasonably okay. The logistics have to be
finalised," said the DUP source of holding a first-ever meeting
between DUP and Sinn Fein leaders ahead of the midnight (2300
GMT) deadline to restore the devolved assembly at Stormont or
have the province ruled from London indefinitely.


The Protestant DUP, which favours remaining part of Britain, on
Saturday agreed to form an executive with its long-standing
Catholic rivals Sinn Fein, who want union with the Republic of
Ireland, but wants six weeks to overcome outstanding hurdles.


Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain earlier said the 2300 GMT
Monday deadline still meant "devolution or dissolution" of the
British-run province's assembly and he would not listen to any
alternatives unless all parties agreed.


The DUP source said that a number of issues will be discussed at
the meeting, including the programme for government and finances.
The DUP will also want to test Sinn Fein's commitment to the
Police Service of Northern Ireland, the source said.


If the two parties reach agreement before the deadline, DUP
leader Iain Paisley is likely to become the province's First
Minister, with Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness his
likely deputy.


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern has also said that he will not
heed the DUP's calls for a delay, unless Sinn Fein were to agree.


The Northern Ireland Assembly was created by the 1998 Good Friday
or Belfast peace agreement that largely brought an end to three
decades of sectarian violence in the British-run province.


It has been suspended since October 2002 when allegations
surfaced of a republican spy-ring operating at the assembly
buildings, and Northern Ireland has been governed directly from
London ever since.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Ahern, however, revived
prospects for power-sharing in the troubled province with the so-
called St. Andrews Agreement in November, named for the Scottish
city where the negotiations took place.


The DUP has refused to share power until Sinn Fein -- the former
political wing of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) -- accepts the
rule of British law and supports the police force and the IRA
renounces violence.

