

Australian David Hicks is weighing a possible plea deal as he
faces the prospect of a trial on terrorism charges, the first
"war on terror" detainee at Guantanamo to be charged under a new
law reviving US military tribunals to try "enemy combatants".


On the eve of a pretrial hearing on Monday, prosecutors and
defense lawyers said they were discussing a proposed plea bargain
agreement that would avert the need for a trial and possibly
allow Hicks to be transferred to the custody of Australian
authorities.


"It was discussed. I won't say any more than that," said Colonel
Morris Davis, head of the prosecutor's office.


Hicks, 31, has spent more than five years at the US-run prison at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and his time in detention has "begun to
take a toll," said David McLeod, an Australian lawyer serving on
his defense team.


"He's been in the western world's most notorious prison for five
years," McLeod told reporters.


"He's had a pretty rough trod over three to five years. And if it
was yourself I suspect you would be thinking about how to get out
of this place," said McLeod, confirming a plea deal had been
discussed.


He said a number of options had been explained to Hicks, but
would not elaborate.


Hicks is due to appear before the tribunal on Monday, when
military authorities will read out the charge sheet that alleges
he gave "material support to terrorism," alleging he received
training from Al-Qaeda and fought with Taliban forces during the
US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


"Today he had dark, sunken eyes and he looked very tired," said
McLeod, who met with Hicks for three and a half hours on Sunday.


Hicks, who has a short military-style haircut in photos from his
younger days, has grown long hair down to his chest so that he
can he pull it over his eyes at night to block out light and
allow him to sleep, he said.


The former ranch hand and high school drop-out has also grown a
three-inch beard, which he wanted to shave off but had yet to be
allowed to use a razor, McLeod said.


While Hicks was approaching his hearing with "some degree of
trepidation," McLeod said he he was looking forward to seeing his
father, Terry Hicks, for a scheduled visit before the hearing.


Terry Hicks, has not seen his son since August 2004 and said
before his arrival that his son's mental state was a "huge
concern".


US military authorities have dropped charges of attempted murder,
conspiracy and aiding the enemy against Hicks. The new charge is
based on a US law only recently adopted, prompting criticism from
human rights groups who say the retroactive aspect violates basic
civil liberties.


Hicks appeared before a previous military tribunal system created
by an order from President George W. Bush, but the US Supreme
Court ruled it unconstitutional.


The US Congress last year, then under a Republican majority,
passed a law authorizing a reconstituted tribunal regime with
some adjustments but still operating outside of regular US courts
or military courts-martial.


The commission law allows for hearsay, evidence obtained through
"coercion" and bars detainees from appealing their detention in
US courts.


Hicks' case has turned into a hot political topic in Australia,
with Prime Minister John Howard's government accused of failing
to intervene forcefully on behalf of one of its citizens.


Australian officials have been lobbying President George W.
Bush's government over the issue, and McLeod said the attention
to Hicks' case has increased in the past two years.


"Let me just say in 2007 we are in a far different position than
we were in 2005," McLeod said.


"The Australian public and indeed a lot of people around the
world have brought a lot of pressure to bear on the Australian
government to do something about an Australian citizen caught up
in a discredited process overseas designed for non- Americans."


Davis, the chief prosecutor for the tribunals, denied there had
been political pressure to expedite the Hicks case. But he said
the defense team had prevailed in the court of public opinion in
Australia.


"We haven't done a good job of telling our story," Davis said,
adding: "I'm optimistic when the public sees the truth maybe the
opinions will change."

