

A moribund Darfur peace deal was in danger of collapse on Sunday
after a deadly incident between former rebels and police, as the
war in the western Sudan region threatened to spread to Khartoum.


The only Darfur rebel group to have signed peace with the
government said it was ready to resume fighting after a shootout
between some of its members and police left 11 dead in Khartoum's
twin city of Omdurman on Saturday.


"The attack by the police and security forces on the residence of
our men was a violation of the ceasefire enshrined in the Abuja
peace agreement which we have signed with the government," Tayeb
Khamis, a spokesman for the Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM), told
AFP.


"We are prepared to resume the war and from Khartoum, if the
government wants to fight," said Khamis, whose group is the only
one of three Darfur rebel groups to have signed the Abuja accord
with Khartoum in May 2006.


According to Khamis, the incident broke out when former SLM
rebels refused to hand over two of the group's members who were
wanted by the police regarding a "traffic problem" earlier in the
week.


The ensuing shootout left 11 people dead -- two policemen, eight
SLM supporters and a woman, he said.


The clash was the first in Khartoum between the SLM and the
government as well as the worst violence to hit the city since
riots sparked by the death of southern rebel leader John Garang
in August 2005 killed over 45 people.


A witness speaking on condition of anonymity said the area around
the house where the incident broke out was turned into "a real
battleground" for several hours.


"The streets were deserted except for the police and their
armoured vehicles, who were patrolling and shooting with light
weapons on the SLM men, who returned fire from inside the
residence," the witness said.


The SLM and witnesses said no further incidents were reported on
Sunday.


Senior SLM official Seif al-Din Haroun blamed the government for
allowing the incident to deteriorate into a fully-fledged
gunbattle.


"Why didn't the government move in, instead of leaving the
clashes to continue for eight hours?" he asked, adding his
movement demanded "an immediate and urgent investigation".


Khartoum state police chief Mohammed Naguib al-Tayeb said
residents of the neighbourhood where the clashes erupted had
repeatedly complained about the threat posed by the presence of
armed SLM members.


He also said some local residents complained that some SLM
members "engaged in obscene and drug-taking practices."


Quoted by the state media, Interior Minister Zubeir Beshir Taha
described the incidents as "regrettable" but insisted that they
would not affect the peace process.


He had discussed the incidents with SLM leader Minni Minnawi and
emphasised that peace was "the most important issue and should
therefore be maintained."


Minnawi's SLM was one of two rebel groups that launched a revolt
against the central government in western Sudan's Darfur region
in 2003, but three years later signed a peace accord with the
government.


The SLM opened an office in Khartoum in the wake of the May 2006
agreement, under which Minnawi was appointed special presidential
assistant.


Splinter groups flourished after the peace accord and violence
spiraled.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and two million displaced since the conflict erupted.
Some sources say the death toll is much higher.

