

The father of Australian terror suspect David Hicks said he was
concerned about his son's mental state at the US-run prison in
Guantanamo Bay, and dismissed the military tribunal proceedings
as unfair.


Terry Hicks, in an interview with Australian Broadcasting
Corporation outside the Australian embassy in Washington,
questioned the legitimacy of the tribunal trying his son.


"There's a misconception people have that this is a court
proceeding," said Hicks, before departing for the US naval base
in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where his son was to appear before a
military tribunal on Monday.


"It's conducted quite differently. Evidence is treated
differently. It's just got so much going against it," he said.


Asked if he was pleased his son was having his day in court after
repeated delays, he replied: "He's having a day but it's not a
court."


David Hicks, 31, who has been held for more than five years in
Guantanamo, is the first "war on terror" detainee to be charged
under a controversial law adopted by the US Congress last year
establishing special military tribunals.


He is scheduled to appear at a pretrial hearing on Monday in
which he will enter a plea to a charge of giving "material
support to terrorism."


Charges of attempted murder and aiding the enemy have been
dropped and lawyers have confirmed the case may be resolved in a
plea bargain agreement.


Terry Hicks has been promised a meeting with his son, the first
since August 2006, and he said he was bracing himself for an
emotional visit.


He said his son's mental state was "a huge concern," and based on
the accounts of defense lawyers he believed Hicks had
"deteriorated" and that his "physical appearance as well has
changed."


"He's not going to be the same person," he said.


The Hicks case has become a political issue in Australia, where
the conservative government has been accused of failing to do
enough to win his release.


Australian Prime Minister John Howard, who has previously said
Hicks has been in custody for too long without trial and pushed
US President George W. Bush to bring him to trial quickly,
dismissed complaints about the US process.


"I believe that many of the things said about that process are
wrong," he told Sky News.


"I'm pleased that the arraignment is coming and I look forward to
a very speedy trial," Howard added. "I think everybody wants him
to have a trial."


Terry Hicks said he hoped his visit "may help to buoy" his son
and confirmed that he would be allowed to embrace and touch his
son unlike previous visits.


He also said he intended to ask his son about allegations he had
been sedated before he was informed of the latest charges against
him. The US military has rejected the allegations.


While he was pleased for the chance to see his son again, he said
he felt sympathy for other detainees who have not had a chance to
see their families.


"There's so many people there who have no contact with anybody,"
he said.

