

Iran is to restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog
in retaliation for the Security Council sanctions over its
disputed atomic programme, a government spokesman announced on
Sunday.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, meanwhile, vowed that no Security
Council resolution could ever halt the Islamic republic's "march"
toward the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.


"Iran has decided to partially limit its cooperation with this
agency until the Iranian nuclear file is transferred from the
Security Council" back to the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), said spokesman Gholamhossein Elham.


The spokesman, quoted on the state news agency IRNA, explained
that Iran had accepted four years ago an arrangement under which
it informed the IAEA of any decision to construct a new nuclear
installation.


But it would no longer inform the Vienna-based nuclear watchdog
of new installations until six months before they are brought
into service, Elham said.


In Vienna, there was no immediate IAEA reaction to the
announcement but one diplomat said "it was pretty clear this was
coming down the pike".


UN inspectors visited the Iranian nuclear facility in Natanz on
Tuesday, diplomats said, but it was not clear if they resolved a
dispute over monitoring a strategic underground bunker.


Iran is building an industrial-scale plant in the bunker at
Natanz to make enriched uranium, which can be used for nuclear
reactor fuel or atomic bomb material.


Diplomats in Vienna speculated that cutting off access to Natanz
might be part of Iran's response to the reinforced sanctions.


At the United Nations, Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki
said his country would also respond soon to an offer by six major
powers -- Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United
States -- to resume talks to end the nuclear standoff.


"If there are new requests or proposals made we will have
appropriate reactions and answers to those too.


"We hope that they (the six) are not going to repeat what has
been repeated in the past," he noted, referring to the UN demand
that Iran suspend sensitive uranium enrichment in order for talks
to begin.


The Security Council's five permanent members plus Germany have
tasked EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana with seeking new
talks with Iran on ways to stop Tehran from enriching uranium.


Mottaki repeated his view that the sanctions unanimously approved
by the Security Council were "illegal and unjustified" and
stressed that "all questions about Iran's nuclear programme have
been answered."


He reiterated that the "appropriate place for dealing with the
(Iranian nuclear) issue is the International Atomic Energy
Agency," not the Security Council.


Back home, Ahmadinejad was unbowed by the sanctions, vowing that
Tehran would "not halt for a second the peaceful and legal
nuclear march of the Iranian people."


"They can publish hundreds of such documents, but let them be
sure that nothing will change in Iran and our march will continue
without any interruption," said the hardline president.


He warned that "the Iranian people will not forget the hostility
of countries" which opposed Tehran's nuclear programme.


The UN resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


The new sanctions, slapped on Tehran after measures already
adopted in December, were imposed after Iran ignored repeated
ultimatums from the Security Council to suspend uranium
enrichment.


Tehran insists its nuclear program is designed for civilian
energy purposes, but Western nations fear it is a cover for
building an atomic bomb.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Sunday appealed for fresh dialogue,
urging Tehran "to urgently take the necessary steps to restore
the international community's trust that its nuclear program is
peaceful in nature," his office said.

