

One week after the murder of Pakistani cricket coach Bob Woolmer,
Jamaican police on Sunday analyzed security videos hoping they
feature who strangled the former England international.


"It is critically important because it may provide an image of
the killer or killers," Jamaica's deputy police commissioner Mark
Shields told journalists in Kingston on Sunday.


He said investigators were carefully looking at images taken by
closed circuit cameras in the Pegasus hotel and were focusing on
the 12th floor, where Woolmer was found unconscious in his room
on March 18. He was declared dead a few hours later.


His death came just one day after a stunning loss to minnows
Ireland knocked Pakistan out of the World Cup, stirring
speculation that match-fixing criminals may have been involved.


Shields said that while the video footage does not give a view of
the room doors, it does show both ends of the corridor "and will
give us an indication who was on that floor."


Investigators believe Woolmer probably knew his killer, or
killers, as there was no sign of forced entry in his room.


But authorities declared members of the Pakistani team in the
clear, at least for the time being, and allowed them to leave the
island on Saturday, when they flew to London for a stopover on
their way home.


"There is nothing to suggest any of them is a suspect at this
stage," Shields said.


Investigators did question for a second time captain Inzamam-ul-
Haq, caretaker coach Mushtaq Ahmed and manager Talat Ali just
before the players left Jamaica. Police earlier questioned all
members of the team and took DNA samples and fingerprints.


"They clarified a number of points," Shields said after
Saturday's interviews.


He dismissed claims the players had been involved in a row with
Woolmer after their defeat to Ireland on the eve of the killing.


"As far as I'm aware at the moment, the players and officials
were very subdued and there was no heated exchange," he said.


A Pakistani diplomat who traveled from Washington to liaise with
police in Kingston expressed anger over swirling rumors about the
team.


"Please don't speculate. The team is traumatized," Zahid Hafeez
Chaudhri, the first secretary at the Pakistani embassy in
Washington told journalists, adding: "There is no suspect or
suspects."


Dalawar Chaudhry, who organized the London stopover, said the
team were all "very, very down."


"I have had a word with all the boys and they have lost someone
very near and dear to them. A father figure has been lost ...
They haven't been sleeping well. It's been a very emotional
time," Chaudhry said.


Nagging rumors of match-fixing in connection with Woolmer's death
have cast a further shadow over the sport and the World Cup,
which officials insisted had to go on despite the killing.


"Of course it's one of our lines of inquiry," Shields said of the
speculation the criminal gangs may have been involved in the
murder, either because Woolmer was about to expose the extent of
the match-fixing practice in a forthcoming book or because of
bets lost by Ireland's win.


Shields took up the issue with Jeff Rees, the chief investigator
of the International Cricket Council's anti-corruption unit, who
is currently in Kingston.


"One aspect is, what were the odds on Ireland if Ireland won? I
understand that they were extremely good if you bet on Ireland,"
Shields told the London observer.


Woolmer's body will remain on the island until the conclusion of
a coroner's inquest, which authorities said will be held as soon
as possible.


A former England international, Woolmer had coached the Pakistan
team since 2004.


Before that, he was coach of South Africa when their former
captain Hansie Cronje was bought off by bookmakers in 1996, but
was never alleged to have been involved himself.

