

The police chief in charge of the investigation into the murder
of Pakistan cricket team coach Bob Woolmer said in an interview
published Monday that he let the team leave Jamaica to avoid
sparking a "significant diplomatic incident."


Speaking to The Times, the country's deputy police commissioner
Mark Shields added that he was working with two Pakistani
diplomats to ensure their return to Jamaica if they were needed
for further questioning.


Woolmer was found unconscious in his hotel room on March 18, and
was declared dead a few hours later. His death came just a day
after a stunning loss to cricketing minnows Ireland, knocking
Pakistan out of the World Cup.


Holding the Pakistan team in Jamaica "would have caused a
significant diplomatic incident and had an extremely adverse
effect on the World Cup," Shields said.


There would have been an uproar "if I had started holding people
against their will," he added.


Authorities declared members of the Pakistan team in the clear,
at least for the time being, and allowed them to leave the island
on Saturday, when they flew to London for a stopover on their way
home.


The police chief had told reporters in Kingston on Sunday that
investigators were carefully looking at images taken by closed
circuit cameras in the Pegasus hotel, and were focusing on the
12th floor, where Woolmer was staying.


Shields told The Times that detectives were also looking at
records of every door keycard in the hotel to monitor residents'
movements: "It's a huge task. But when we do that, we get the
time of death."


Pakistan team spokesman Pervez Mir meanwhile told the Daily
Mirror details of what three of the team's members -- captain
Inzamam-ul-Haq, caretaker coach Mushtaq Ahmed and manager Talat
Ali -- had been asked when they were questioned by police for a
second time.


Inzamam was apparently asked why he changed his room in the hotel
from the 12th floor to the fifth, a move he made before Woolmer's
murder, to which he responded that he wanted to be closer to the
team's players.


He was also asked what time he went to bed, but Mir said he did
not know what Inzamam's answer was.


Police asked Ali why he changed floors from the 12th after
Woolmer's death, to which he responded that he was scared. He was
also asked how many times a day he prayed, a question he declined
to answer.


Ahmed was meanwhile asked about cuts to his face, which he said
he sustained during the team's practice on the morning of the
Ireland match.

