

In a vast prison complex created by Soviet leader Joseph Stalin,
a group of Nigerian inmates in improvised tribal dress beat drums
and performed a dance for visiting journalists.


"Everything's okay... I miss my home," one of them, Omar Khamad,
told the journalists visiting Russia's prison for foreigners
after a performance that featured an axe-waving evil spirit in
ghoulish mask and grass skirt.


"I listen to the BBC and Voice of America on the radio. I study
Spanish in the library," said Khamad, who is serving 10 years for
drug dealing, as he reluctantly fielded questions from a
television crew.


Journalists were being given a rare glimpse inside the prison,
which holds about 150 people from countries not part of the
former Soviet Union -- mainly Vietnam, Afghanistan, China and
Nigeria but also Western countries including France and the
United States.


Located in marshy forestland in Mordovia province, 650 kilometres
(400 miles) east of Moscow, it was included in a seven-prison
media tour intended by the penal service to overcome the image
problem they inherited after decades of Soviet-era repression in
which millions of people perished.


The reason the foreigners are here is partly because the absence
of extradition agreements with some countries has prevented them
being deported, but also because some have chosen to stay,
fearing a worse fate at home, such as execution, longer sentences
or poor conditions, officials say.


In the last decade, Russian jails have gone through "not simply a
series of forward steps, but a transformation," said the head of
prisons for Mordovia, Viktor Malkov.


He pointed to rising budgets, better food and lower tuberculosis
rates, and dismissed as "highly subjective" claims by Russian and
Western human rights groups that Russian jails remain inhumane
and unhealthy.


This upbeat message was drummed into journalists as they toured
some of the 17 jails that remain of the Soviet-era Temlag
complex, which once held numerous political prisoners, many of
them women.


In one after another of the barbed wire compounds -- each
glistening with wet paint -- journalists were treated to home-
made pastries and slices of pig fat.


They were entertained with a pantomime version of the English
folktale Robin Hood, a belly dancer and, in a prison holding 250
girls below adult age in Ryazan province, a "Miss Charming"
competition.


In this contest, inmates paraded in evening gowns they had made,
recited poetry, sang and showed off art work.


The message was further reinforced at a jail for those with drug
and alcohol problems, where Maxim Zhdanov, a former heroin addict
infected with the HIV virus and doing time for robbery and drug-
dealing, voiced optimism about his future.


"There's probably no one left alive among those of my circle who
remained outside prison. This place has saved me," said the
shaven-headed 27-year-old in all-black uniform.


The prisoners' productivity was also on display, some beavering
away in wood processing workshops, others producing agricultural
machinery, many more sewing work clothes, notably for the giant
state gas company Gazprom.


But there were blemishes on the good news story.


One HIV-positive prisoner said he had recently been in a jail
where overcrowding was so bad that a lack of beds forced him to
take turns with others to sleep.


The presence at a women's prison of jailed Yukos oil company
executive Svetlana Bakhmina was a reminder of claims by critics
in Russia and the West that the Kremlin had used the court system
as a political tool to destroy that company.


Bakhmina was not willing to speak to journalists, officials said.


As for the foreigners' jail, even prison officials admit it is
something of an exception.


It is regularly visited by foreign diplomats and notably lacks
the hoardings in other jails that carry Soviet-style slogans such
as "Remember: They're waiting for you back home!"


Even here though there have been problems for the Roman Catholic
Church to gain access to Catholic inmates, possibly reflecting
lingering suspicion of Catholicism in Russia.


"There's still not an understanding that it's important for men
and women who are locked up in prison to see a priest," said
Father Michael Ryan, a Catholic priest who was allowed in to hold
a service, coinciding with the journalists' visit.


He added however: "The system has gone through incredible change.
It's poor and it's a hard place, but the treatment here is
humane."


Despite the positive changes, Russia's prison system still has
room for improvement.


Officials hope to start trials soon of electronic bracelets for
less serious offenders, which should bring down the size of
Russia's total prison population from its current level of around
877,000.


That is lower than in the 1990s but means that Russia still has
the world's second highest incarceration rate per capita after
the United States, according to the International Centre for
Prison Studies at King's College London.


At the girls' prison in Ryazan, Anne Hofinga, a German prison
reform expert, said there were "big questions" about the
sentencing of some girls who had resorted to violence to defend
themselves against sexual attack.


"I'm sure there are girls here who wouldn't be in prison in
Germany... It's very difficult to change the system," said
Hofinga.

