

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's son, Gamal, on Sunday defended
a set of controversial constitutional amendments due go to a
referendum but predicted a low turnout.


"We are very convinced that this package is a very important step
forward," Mubarak junior -- who heads the ruling National
Democratic Party's politburo -- told AFP.


Turnout was expected to be low in Monday's referendum, which will
take place just one week after the changes proposed by the
president were rushed through parliament.


"If you're talking in percentage terms, it's going to be
somewhere in the twenties," Gamal Mubarak said.


The authorities tout the changes to 34 articles of the
constitution as a boost to democracy and security, while the
opposition argues they will roll back basic civil rights and were
designed to prevent further political gains by Egypt's Islamists.


The Islamist and secular opposition has united in a call to
boycott the referendum and several demonstrations were held under
tight security across the country on Sunday in protest at the
amendments.


One amendment bans all political activity based on religion, in a
move directly targeting the popular Muslim Brotherhood.


"My simple answer is this prohibition is already in our
legislation for years and years and years," Gamal Mubarak said.


"All that the president did is elevate that very important
principle to the constitution."


The Islamist group is officially outlawed but secured 20 percent
of parliamentary seats by running as independents in the 2005
legislative elections, forming the largest opposition group in
and out of parliament.


"I'm not surprised there is disagreement, there is scepticism,"
Gamal Mubarak said. "There are genuine concerns out there...
because constitutional issues are not that simple for the average
voter to understand."


"It is relatively easy for the opposing forces to go out on a
negative smearing campaign. It is more challenging for us to go
out there and get people's support."

