

US Vice President Dick Cheney has vowed that the administration
would not allow an early withdrawal of US forces from Iraq,
despite efforts by Congress to impose a deadline on US combat
operations there.


Late Saturday, Cheney defied a historic vote in the House of
Representatives, which called for a pullout of US combat troops
from Iraq by August 31, 2008 -- regardless of whether Iraqi
security forces are ready to take over from them.


"A sudden withdrawal of our coalition would dissipate much of the
effort that has gone into fighting the global war on terror, and
result in chaos and mounting danger," the vice president
declared. "And for the sake of our own security, we will not
stand by and let it happen."


President George W. Bush has vowed to veto the measure. But the
deadline, which was approved in the House on Friday, is attached
to the 124 billion in emergency funding he is seeking for the
war, raising questions about whether a veto could shut down
military operations.


Lacking line-item veto power, Bush can reject bills only in their
entirety.


In light of this circumstance, the president acknowledged earlier
Saturday that if the bill that finances the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan is not passed by April 15, the military "will face
significant disruptions."


On Sunday, Republican Senator Chuck Hagel vowed to team up with a
Democratic colleague to introduce binding legislation that
imposes conditions on Iraq's stability and ratchet up pressure on
the White House.


"Senator Jim Webb and I are going to introduce some legislation
that will in fact have the force of law in the future involvement
of our military and our country, and what conditions that future
will be," said Hagel.


"It will be binding legislation, and it will be focused on
deployment, redeployment, training, equipment."


Cheney, for his part, used his appearance before the Republican
Jewish Coalition in Manalaplan, Florida, to reassure allies that
the current political struggle will not result in a precipitous
US withdrawal from Iraq.


He did not explain what steps the administration could take if
the supplemental bill dies in partisan bickering. But he
expressed confidence in the final outcome, stating "We will
complete the mission, and we will prevail."


Quoting extensively from Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, the
vice president reiterated his conviction that an US early
withdrawal from Iraq would be "a complete validation of the Al-
Qaeda strategy."


And he painted a dire picture of the Muslim world descending into
chaos and tyranny, if radical Islamists were allowed to prevail.


"Having tasted victory in Iraq, jihadists would look for new
missions," he predicted. "Many would head for Afghanistan and
fight alongside the Taliban. Others would set out for capitals
across the Middle East, spreading more sorrow and discord as they
eliminate dissenters and work to undermine moderate governments."


The speech marked a ratcheting up of the tense standoff between
the White House and Democratic-controlled Congress, which is
under heavy pressure from constituents to find a way to wrap up
the war, now in its fifth year, that most Americans now believe
was a mistake.


But the Democrats made clear they have no intention of backing
down. In a radio address Saturday, Representative Paul Hodes said
the era of blank checks issued by Congress to the president was
over and urged Bush to respond "by listening to the American
people."


Meanwhile, a leading US foreign policy expert, former national
security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski, argued that the
administration was promoting "a culture of fear" for political
and financial gain.


He noted that in 2003, Congress identified 160 sites as potential
terrorism targets that should be fortified at the government's
expense. By 2005, the list had grown to 77,769.


Now, he said, the database lists some 300,000 possible targets,
which include not only the Sears Tower in Chicago, but also the
Illinois Apple and Pork Festival.

