

Yemen is the heir to ancient civilisations including the Biblical
land of Sheba, and hardly a month goes by without the authorities
foiling yet another attempt to smuggle antiquities out of the
country.


The scourge is attributed to factors ranging from the lack of
safeguards to officials involved in the illicit trade, and has
reached such proportions that President Ali Abdullah Saleh
slammed its prevalence in a January speech.


"There are brokers and smugglers who don't appreciate the value
of a manuscript or the importance of antiquities. All they care
about is making money," he said.


"Antiquities have been smuggled out of the country, particularly
to neighbouring countries and European states... They can now be
found in museums in Britain and Germany and in some Arab
museums," Saleh said, urging a security forces crackdown.


Yemen's official Saba news agency said attempts to smuggle 1,026
ancient artifacts via Sanaa airport and two border crossings were
thwarted in 2006.


Culture Minister Khaled al-Ruweishan, grilled by parliament
recently over his ministry's purported failure to safeguard
antiquities, hit back by accusing some foreign embassies and
cultural councils of involvement in smuggling.


He also pointed the finger of blame at organised foreign and
local rings that included some officials.


Ruweishan said his ministry has spent more than 100 million rials
(around 550,000 dollars, 420,000 euros) on buying thousands of
antiquities and manuscripts from locals in order to prevent them
from being smuggled abroad.


He claimed that because of efforts to preserve antiquities, "90
percent" of suspected smugglers arrested are now trading in
fakes.


Ruweishan told AFP that payments by the culture ministry over the
past three years to buy antiquities -- half of the ministry's
budget -- were "called 'rewards' because these antiquities are in
fact the property of the state."


Such compensation is justified because those with antiquities
"chose to give them to the state instead of trying to sell them
to foreign or local parties, and this is exemplary behaviour," he
said.


According to Hisham Ali al-Thawr, who heads the antiquities
protection department at the General Antiquities Authority,
unearthing and smuggling antiquities is most prevalent in tribal
regions such as Al-Jawf, Marib and Shabwa because ancient sites
there are unprotected and residents are unaware of the importance
of artefacts.


The remains of the pre-Islamic Maeen civilisation in Al-Jawf had
been totally destroyed for the sake of making money, Thawr told
AFP.


Yemen, located in the southwest of the Arabian Peninsula, was
also home to the historic Sheba civilisation cited in the Bible,
and a number of Yemeni cities are classified by UNESCO as world
heritage sites.


Thawr said many smuggled antiquities have been recovered through
official channels from countries including Britain, Jordan, Oman
and Saudi Arabia.


The most recent treasure to be repatriated -- a marble statue of
the god of fertility from the Sheba era -- was brought home by
President Saleh from a trip to the United States in November
2005.


Thawr said a special unit set up by the antiquities authority in
late 2003 to combat smuggling monitors every exit point and works
closely with the security forces to prevent the illegal export of
antiquities.


"At Sanaa airport, for instance, three to four pieces are seized
on their way out of the country every week," he said.


Thawr said the special unit has also helped send many suspected
smugglers to court. Those convicted can be jailed for up to five
years and fined the equivalent to the value of their booty.


Officials say the illicit trade peaks at times of internal
unrest, as was the case during the 1994 civil war sparked by a
southern secession bid.


The current on-off fighting since 2004 between government forces
and rebels from the minority Zaidi Shiite community, holed up in
northwestern Saada province near the border with Saudi Arabia, is
also believed to be a boon for smugglers.


The director of Sanaa's national museum, Abdul Aziz al-Jandari,
said that while smuggling antiquities is by no means an
exclusively Yemeni phenomenon, it is more common in the
impoverished country.


He said the reasons include "ignorance" about the importance of
Yemeni heritage, the inability of some people to "resist the lure
of money" and a lack of adequate resources to protect the
country's ancient treasures.

