

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern on Sunday appealed to Northern
Ireland's political parties to agree a power-sharing deal before
a make-or-break deadline on reviving self-rule expires on Monday.


Ahern warned that Dublin would not heed the call from the main
Protestant party in the province for a delay unless they agreed
with their long-standing Catholic foes Sinn Fein and all other
parties on the way forward.


"A lot of people think that there has been enough time and I
agree with that view," Ahern told reporters at a briefing on the
sidelines of the EU's 50th anniversary celebrations in the German
capital.


"If there is no agreement, we crash. Those are the rules we
signed off on and the parties are aware of that," he said,
staying close to the line taken on Sunday by Britain's Northern
Ireland secretary Peter Hain.


"I will move nothing until everybody agrees. If they don't, it
collapses tomorrow," he added.


Ahern said he had discussed the political impasse in Northern
Ireland with British Prime Minister Tony Blair in Berlin at the
weekend and they were trying to find a way out of it.


"I have met with the prime minister and we are working on this
together," he said.


Britain and Ireland have said the Northern Ireland Assembly will
be axed and the province run from London indefinitely unless
political parties can agree on a power-sharing executive by
midnight on Monday.


Protestant hardliner Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionists, who
favour union with Britain, have agreed to strike a deal with Sinn
Fein, but only if London gives them six weeks to overcome
remaining hurdles.


However, London seems unwilling to waver as the clock ticks down,
leaving the British-ruled province's future hanging in the
balance.


Ahern called the standoff "an evolving" situation and called on
the parties to meet to try and find consensus.


"I have spent a lot of time on the phone yesterday and today and
I will do the same tomorrow," he said.


"It will help a lot if they can get in the same room."

