

Prime Minister Tony Blair on Sunday called Iran's seizure of 15
British naval personnel "unjustified and wrong" as international
pressure grew on Iran over the new diplomatic crisis.


British authorities said they did not know where the personnel,
who were seized on Friday, were being held but Iran said the 14
men and one woman were all well.


"The quicker it is resolved, the easier it is for all. But it is
quite unjustified and wrong," Blair told reporters on the
sidelines of EU 50th anniversary celebrations in Berlin.


"They were in Iraqi water, it is not true that they went into
Iranian territorial waters," he said in his first public comments
since the detentions on Friday.


The eight British Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines, all
based on the British warship HMS Cornwall, were seized in the
Gulf waterway that divides Iraq and Iran.


Britain says the group was conducting "routine" anti-smuggling
operations, but Iran said Saturday the group had admitted to
illegally entering Iranian waters.


British press reports have speculated that the naval personnel
could be used as bargaining chips in the mounting war of words
between Tehran and the West or traded for Iranians captured in
Iraq earlier this year.


The Iranian action has added to tensions caused by fresh United
Nations sanctions ordered Saturday over Iran's nuclear programme.


Blair said he hoped the solution would come in "an as easy and
diplomatic way as possible," adding: "I hope the Iranian
government understands how fundamental an issue this is for us."


French President Jacques Chirac said Britain had the "complete
solidarity" of all EU leaders over the missing sailors.


"It seems clear that the soldiers were not in the Iranian zone at
the time (of their capture)," Chirac told reporters in Berlin.


The German presidency of the EU issued a statement on Saturday
calling for the immediate release of the Britons.


Britain's ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, met senior
officials at the Iranian foreign ministry on Sunday.


He asked to be told the whereabouts of the group, sought
reassurances about their health and urged their release but got
no immediate response, a foreign ministry spokesman in London
told AFP.


Lord David Triesman, a junior Foreign Office minister, said in an
interview with Sky News television: "We don't know where they
are. We wish we did. We are asking whether they are being moved
around inside Iran."


Iran's foreign ministry did not say where the Britons are being
held.


But it released a statement saying: "The British sailors are in
good health and the procedure for studying their case continues,"
despite the current Iranian New Year holidays.


The Sunday Times newspaper quoted an Iraqi military officer in
the southern port city of Basra as saying the sailors were not in
Iraqi waters when they were detained.


"We were informed by Iraqi fishermen that there were British
gunboats in an area that is out of Iraqi control", said Brigadier
General Hakim Jassim, who the paper said was "in nominal charge
of territorial waters".


"We don't know why they were there," he said.


But Triesman again denied that the group had deliberately entered
Iranian territory, telling Sky News: "There's no reason for them
to do so."


He also said London was "confident" satellite tracking records
would prove them right.


Iran's ambassador to London has twice been summoned to the
Foreign Office. On Friday he met a senior civil servant and
Triesman on Saturday.


Triesman said Britain wanted the Iranians to reassure the group's
families that they were in good health and unharmed.


The group's seizure comes three years after eight British Royal
Navy personnel training their Iraqi counterparts on the nearby
Shatt al-Arab waterway were detained for three days by Iran.


They were blindfolded, paraded on Iranian television and
apologised for their actions -- although Britain denied illegal
encroachment -- before being released.

