

An Indian and a Lebanese man kidnapped in Nigeria's oil rich
south last week have been released, a diplomatic source said on
Sunday.


Gunmen had seized the construction workers, who have not been
named, from a building site at Agbarho in Delta State on Friday,
police said earlier.


"The circumstances are still not clear but I can confirm that
they have been freed," the diplomat told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


No group has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping, the
latest in a series of such attacks against foreigners mainly
working in the oil industry.


The men worked for BTP Cetraco, a construction company working on
a road in the oil-rich region.


There was no news on the fate of a Dutch man kidnapped Friday
from Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, in the southern Rivers
State, despite the deployment of military search parties to look
for him.


The most high-profile of the separatist groups operating in the
region, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
(MEND), which has abducted dozens of people in the past, said it
was not involved this time.


Along with the Dutch security worker, two Chinese nationals
abducted on March 17 in the southeastern state of Anambra also
remain missing.


Meanwhile in Port Harcourt, two Nigerians have been arrested over
the kidnapping of a Briton and an American on January 23.


The two men, Ekene Ibebuka and Nnamdi Eme, were paraded before
the press on Sunday and confessed, saying they had demanded a
ransom.


The Briton was released on February 7 because he was seriously
ill, and the American 11 days later.


Police official Alhadji Kola Adesina said that Prince Clark
Igodo, a member of the ruling People's Democratic Party and a
candidate for state governor in elections on April 21, was behind
the kidnappings.


Since the start of this year, about 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in Nigeria, as many as were abducted during the whole
of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, were
abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom money
and armed groups with a political agenda. Groups such as MEND say
they were seeking a fairer distribution of Nigeria's oil
revenues.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
officials.

