

The United States and South Korea Monday started a final make-or-
break round of free trade talks, facing a week-end deadline for
any deal after nearly 10 months of tough negotiations.


A smiling Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Jong greeted Deputy US Trade
Representative Karan Bhatia as negotiators met at a luxury Seoul
hotel ringed by hundreds of riot police.


Two-way trade was worth 74 billion dollars last year and an
agreement could boost this figure by about 20 percent, according
to some studies.


South Korea, facing a growing export challenge from China, is
also pushing for a pact to make its economy more competitive.


For the US, a deal would be its biggest since the 1993 North
American Free Trade Agreement.


But Korean farmers, other workers and activists say a free trade
agreement (FTA) opening the way for cheaper imports would
threaten their jobs and depress wages. Some 7,500 activists
staged a protest Sunday outside the US embassy.


Thousands of riot police were deployed Monday on approaches to
the Grand Hyatt hotel. About 300 of them with shields formed a
human barricade as about 50 activists gathered at the gate,
chanting "No to FTA!"


"Our markets are already open wide to foreign investors," union
leader Chung Yong-Kun told reporters. "The deal, if agreed, will
accelerate the dominance of foreign investors in our country."


Farmer Chang Dong-Hwa said an FTA would ruin agriculture. "We
will step up our fight to protect our livelihood."


Protesters from a coalition of farmers and anti-globalisation
activists said they would held three days of candlelit rallies in
downtown Seoul from Monday.


The head of the small leftist Democratic Labor Party has been on
a protest hunger strike for nearly three weeks, according to
party officials.


Agriculture is one of the key issues at talks which must end on
Friday, Washington time. The US must submit the deal to Congress
by April 2 for a mandatory 90-day review before President George
W. Bush's "fast track" trade promotion authority expires on July
1.


After the last round earlier this month, US chief negotiator
Wendy Cutler said the two sides were "closing in" on agreements
on sensitive areas such as agriculture, automobiles and
pharmaceuticals.


South Korea insists it will maintain trade barriers on rice and
other sensitive items, while Washington says there should be no
exceptions in any accord.


Recent bans on shipments of US beef, while not technically part
of the accord, could also derail it. US officials say their
legislators will not approve any overall pact without a beef
deal.


South Korea last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over mad
cow fears and agreed to accept boneless beef but it rejected
three shipments totalling 22 tons after discovering tiny bone
fragments, in what the US side called a pretext to protect Korean
farmers.


Before 2003, South Korea was the US's third largest beef market,
with annual purchases reaching 850 million dollars.


Washington also wants the early elimination of South Korean
levies and other restrictions on US autos. Seoul sold more than
800,000 vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in the US last year,
while US firms exported only some 4,000 vehicles the other way.


South Korea in turn is seeking a revision of US anti-dumping laws
which it says have been used unfairly to curb its exports while
the US wants protection for its pharmaceutical patents and more
access for the products.

