

Voters could return federalists to power in Quebec in balloting
Monday or elect separatists vowing to split the French-speaking
province from the rest of Canada, which is watching in suspense.


The latest polls put governing Liberals neck-and-neck with Parti
Quebecois, which would like to rekindle its 1980 and 1995
referendums on seceding from Canada -- albeit with different
results.


Analysts at the start of the campaign believed Liberal Premier
Jean Charest would win a second term and stave off a plebiscite
on Quebec independence for five years, as long as an average term
lasts.


But the separatist Parti Quebecois, which vowed to hold a
referendum if it won the election, has made great strides in the
final stretch.


And an unexpected surge in support for rightist Action
Democratique du Quebec, which favors more autonomy for Quebec but
not independence, has made the contest is too close to call,
forcing observers in the Canadian capital Ottawa to the edge of
their seats.


Montreal's La Presse proclaimed "suspense" in a headline, while
the Toronto- based Globe and Mail said the ballot is the most
anticipated in 30 years.


The assembly was dissolved in February having 72 Liberals, 45
Parti Quebecois and five held by Action Democratique du Quebec.


However, polls show that Action could wind up with anywhere from
15 to 30 seats.


A CROP survey published Saturday put the Liberals ahead with 34
percent support versus 28 percent for the Parti Quebecois and 26
percent for the Action Democratique.


A Leger Marketing poll showed Liberals with 35 percent, Quebecois
29 percent and Action 26 percent.


And Strategic Counsel gave Parti Quebecois (PQ) 31 percent,
Liberals 30 percent and Action Democratique du Quebec (ADQ) 28
percent.


"We can say for sure that the ADQ will not win. A minority
Liberal government is likely, but a PQ victory is still
possible," said pollster Claude Gauthier, vice president of CROP.


He pointed to "growing displeasure" with the Liberals over broken
promises to lower taxes and to improve health care as key factors
in Charest's collapse.


The rightist Action, meanwhile whittled down support from both
parties by seducing Quebecers who dream of nationhood but are
wary of letting go of Canada, offering a compromise to staunch
federalists and hardline separatists.


"You have an electorate that is fatigued about the sovereignty
debate, disappointed by the performance of the Liberals and not
impressed by (Parti Quebecois leader Andre) Boisclair," said
Allan Greg, chairman of Strategic Counsel.


Since 1976, the Liberals and the Parti Quebecois have won
alternate majority governments.


Previous Parti Quebecois governments held and lost two
referendums on breaking away from Canada in 1980 and 1995.
Federalists led by Charest narrowly won the second ballot.


Liberals and Quebecois could win an equal number of seats in
Quebec's National Assembly, with the Action as king maker,
analysts say.


A minority government would need to form a coalition with another
party in the 125-seat Assembly.


Even if the Parti Quebecois wins, it could not hold a referendum,
some pundits said, because neither of the other parties support
splitting from Canada.


A total 5.6 million Quebecers are eligible to vote.


The three polls surveyed about 1,000 Quebec voters and have
margins of error of plus or minus three points.

