

Outgoing US ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, said on Sunday
his successor had to confront significant challenges but insisted
the war-torn nation was heading in the right direction.


The Afghan-born envoy, sworn in as ambassador in Iraq on June 21,
2005, leaves behind a country battling bitter sectarian warfare
and a raging insurgency, four years after the US-led invasion to
topple Saddam Hussein.


Despite daily killings of dozens of people across Iraq and
particularly in Baghdad, an optimistic Khalilzad told Western
reporters in a farewell interview that the situation in Iraq was
better than a few months ago.


"I am satisifed that it's (Iraq) fundamentally heading in the
right direction but there are significant challenges and I am
optimistic with the changes that I see in recent months," he
said.


"The security of Baghdad is improving. The military surge is not
over yet but as a whole there is a sense that things are
improving on security front," said Khalilzad, who is the White
House's nominee as ambassador to the UN.


With thousands more US troops being brought in, American and
Iraqi soldiers last month launched Operation Fardh al-Qanoon
(Imposing Law) to try to quell the insurgency and Shiite-Sunni
sectarian violence in and around the capital.


"The level of sectarian violence is significantly lower than it
was a few months ago, although there are some death squads and
terrorists are active," he acknowledged


Repeating Washington's claims, the outgoing envoy said progress
had also been made on economic issues such as agreement by the
Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis on a draft hydrocarbon law seeking to
distribute oil revenue evenly across Iraq and open the sector to
foreign investors.


"That is very important because we are talking of trillions of
dollars that could be cause of unity or disunity of the country
and that is positive," he said of the draft law approved by the
cabinet last month.


Boasting that the foundation for future progress were in place,
he said that it would be up to his successor -- veteran US Middle
East diplomat Ryan Crocker -- to follow up and deliver.


Khalilzad also offered advice to Crocker -- that he should be on
hand to help always and be willing to drink copious quantities of
coffee and tea ubiquitous at official Iraqi meetings.


The 56-year-old Sunni Muslim played a key role in negotiations
over a new Iraqi constitution and the formation of the governing
coalition.


In his 21-month mission, Khalilzad has been seen as a pro-Sunni
man by the majority Shiites for his work on encouraging the
disenchanted former elite to join the mainstream political
process.


He justified his outreach to Sunnis, who boycotted the first
national election in post-Saddam Hussein Iraq, as vital in
efforts to isolate militants and find consensus in the country,
saying progress had been made.


The "priority was to get Sunni Arabs who had boycotted previous
elections to participate in the political process as a way... to
isolate the terrorists, Al- Qaeda and that there was a need for a
national compact."


"I believe that progress has been made with regard to that," he
said, nonetheless calling for greater cooperation between Iraqis
and their neighbours, lashing out at Iran for adopting what he
called a "schizophrenic" policy on Iraq.


Despite Iranian support for the overthrow of Saddam, he said he
was convinced Shiite Iran was playing a role in helping the
militias in Iraq.


"On one hand it has welcomed the change and expressed support to
the government in Iraq, but on the other hand there has been
clear evidence to my satisfaction and I look at these things very
carefully... of support for militias, for extremist groups in
terms of weapons, training and money."

