

What to get the French president who has everything and is
attending his last EU summit? German Chancellor Angela Merkel
decided the answer was an antique beer stein.


At festivities for the 50th anniversary of the European Union
Sunday, the diminutive German chancellor presented the towering
French president with a rare 18th century mug during a luncheon
for the 27 EU leaders.


"We gave him a beer mug to add to his collection," a beaming
Merkel told reporters after hosting a summit on the 50th
anniversary of the EU's founding Treaty of Rome.


"It's a piece of history," she said, noting that it dated from a
time when "Napoleon was fighting in Egypt."


"He has left his mark on Europe in a very positive sense," she
said. "There was a very generous round of applause for him" from
the other EU leaders.


The 74-year-old head of state, who has been active in French
politics for more than 40 years, ruled out seeking a third term
as president this month ahead of elections in April and May.


Chirac congratulated Merkel for hosting the European birthday
party in Berlin, which included cultural events over the weekend
throughout the capital and the signing of a declaration on the
bloc's principles and goals.


"The chancellor only said nice things about me, which I will not
repeat here," Chirac told reporters.


He also thanked her for her presidency of the EU, which runs to
June 30, saying the union could not move forward without Franco-
German cooperation.


"No progress in Europe is possible if there is not agreement
between France and Germany," Chirac said, calling the city of
Berlin a "symbol of Franco-German reconciliation".


"If there is Franco-German agreement, things move forward, more
or less quickly, but if you do not, you have gridlock."


Chirac said he was not emotional about his farewell EU summit.


"You ask me if it tugged on my heart strings. My heart is not
sensitive, in any case not from this point of view," he said,
with his wife Bernadette at his side.


"Things are as they are. I had decided that this would be my last
(EU) council and I was very happy to see my colleagues one last
time, officially as a member of the council," he went on.


"They warmly welcomed me and shook my hand in a friendly way as I
left," the French head of state said. "I had a nice time here."


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern also paid tribute to Chirac,
describing him as a "very good friend."

