

The US Senate was to take up binding legislation Monday to
withdraw US troops from Iraq within one year -- setting up a
showdown with President George W. Bush, who has vowed a veto.


The Senate was to debate Monday emergency funding of 121.6
billion dollars for the US military in Iraq and Afghanistan in a
bill that would also set a strict March 2008 time line for the
pullout of most US combat forces.


The House of Representatives on Friday, in a historic vote,
approved a similar bill, although its version calls for an
earlier pullout, by August 31, 2008.


The bill that squeaked through the House on Friday approved 124
billion dollars in emergency funding for the war, slightly more
than the Senate version.


Bush has promised to veto the measure, and Vice President Dick
Cheney vowed late Saturday that the administration would not
allow an early withdrawal of US forces from Iraq.


"A sudden withdrawal of our coalition would dissipate much of the
effort that has gone into fighting the global war on terror and
result in chaos and mounting danger," a defiant Cheney declared.


"For the sake of our own security, we will not stand by and let
it happen."


Bush can reject bills only in their entirety, and may not veto
the pullout deadline without rejecting the funding as well.


That places Bush in a box politically; while Americans want to
end the war, they are also emphatic that the troops have all the
funding and equipment they need.


Bush warned Saturday that if Congress does not approve a cash
infusion for Iraq and Afghanistan by April 15, the forces in both
countries "will face significant disruptions."


While most Republicans support the president, dissatisfaction
with events on the ground in Iraq is felt deeply by both parties.


On Sunday, Republican Senator Chuck Hagel vowed to join a
Democratic colleague to introduce binding legislation that
imposes conditions on Iraq's stability and ratchets up pressure
on the White House.


"Senator Jim Webb and I are going to introduce some legislation
that will in fact have the force of law in the future involvement
of our military and our country, and (under) what conditions that
future will be," said Hagel.


"It will be binding legislation, and it will be focused on
deployment, redeployment, training, equipment."


Cheney, appearing before the Republican Jewish Coalition in
Manalapan, Florida, said the current political standoff would not
result in a precipitous US withdrawal from Iraq, and restated his
view that an early US withdrawal would be "a complete validation
of the Al-Qaeda strategy."


Monday's debate marks the latest chapter in an increasingly tense
standoff between the White House and Democratic-controlled
Congress, which is under heavy pressure from constituents to find
a way to wrap up the war, now in its fifth year, which most
Americans now believe was a mistake.


But, like the president, Democrats made clear they have no
intention of backing down.


In a radio address Saturday, Representative Paul Hodes said the
era of blank checks issued by Congress to the president was over
and urged Bush to respond "by listening to the American people."

