

Fresh tensions with Iran and problems in Nigeria pushed oil
prices to their highest level of the year, well above 62 dollars,
in Asian trade Monday, dealers said.


At 11:15 am (0315 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 22 cents at 62.50
dollars a barrel from 62.28 dollars in US trade on Friday.


The price for Brent North Sea crude was not immediately
available.


Oil prices have now risen about 25 percent since January when
they traded below 51 dollars.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, said Sunday it
will restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in
retaliation for fresh Security Council sanctions over its
disputed atomic programme.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment programme.


The decision followed word on Friday that Iran had seized 15
British personnel in the Gulf, a move which roiled market.


"We haven't had geopolitical tension for a while," said Steve
Rowles, an analyst with CFC Seymour in Hong Kong. "Any country
that imports oil is monitoring this whole development in Iran
very closely."


The latest UN sanctions followed measures adopted in December and
came after Iran ignored repeated ultimatums from the Security
Council to suspend uranium enrichment.


Tehran insists its nuclear programme is designed for civilian
energy purposes but Western nations fear it is building an atomic
bomb.


There was also tension in Nigeria, where an Indian and a Lebanese
man kidnapped in Nigeria's oil rich south last week have been
released, a diplomatic source said on Sunday.


But a Dutch man kidnapped Friday from Port Harcourt, Nigeria's
oil capital, remained missing along with two Chinese nationals
abducted on March 17 in the southeastern state of Anambra.


With hostages in Nigeria and the British held by Iran, the
geopolitical risk premium "is sort of coming back into the
market," Rowles said.


Prime Minister Tony Blair on Sunday called Iran's seizure of the
sailors and Royal Marines "unjustified and wrong" but Iranian
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said the detained group stand
accused of "illegal entry" into Iran's territorial waters.


Industry experts fear Iran might disrupt its crucial oil exports
if the international community punishes the Islamic republic with
economic sanctions.

