

Bangladesh made history when they qualified for the World Cup
second round with a seven-wicket victory over debutants Bermuda
in a rain-hit match here on Sunday.


It was their best-ever performance in the tournament since making
their Cup debut in England in 1999. They failed to go beyond the
first round in England and then again in the next edition in 2003
in South Africa.


Bangladesh's second win in the four-team Group B also knocked
former champions India out of the tournament. Sri Lanka have
already advanced to the Super Eights with an all-win record.


India had already finished their group campaign with one win and
two defeats and their slim hopes rested on an unlikely Bermudian
win. The Cup debutants lost of their three matches.


Bangladesh had to face many anxious moments chasing a rain-
revised target of 96 in the 21-overs-a-side game before entering
the next round.


They survived a three-wicket burst from new-ball bowler Saleem
Mukuddem before man-of-the-match Mohammad Ashraful (29 not out)
and teenager Saqibul Hasan (26 not out) completed the job in
semi-darkness at the Queen's Park Oval.


"We were a little bit nervous chasing the target as it was a very
important match for us. Then, Ashraful and Saiqbul batted very
well," said Bangladesh skipper Habibul Bashar.


"I am delighted as the boys showed a positive approach. I hope we
continue to perform in the next round. We have been playing good
cricket in the tournament. The win has given us confidence to do
well in the Super Eights."


Mukuddem grabbed three wickets in his lively opening spell to
send Bangladesh reeling at 37-3 in the pressure game, but he
lacked support from the other end.


Saqibul sparked celebrations in the Bangladeshi camp when he
lofted left-arm spinner Dwayne Leverock over mid-on for the
winning four. He put on 59 for the unfinished fourth-wicket stand
with Ashraful.


Left-arm spinner Abdur Razzak earlier bagged three wickets to
raise Bangladesh's hopes of posting a crucial win. He finished
with 3-20 to help his team restrict Bermuda to a modest total.


Fast bowler Mashrafe Mortaza and left-arm spinner Saqibul each
took two wickets to provide valuable support.


Dean Minors top-scored for Bermuda with 23. Opener Oliver Pitcher
made 22 and Lionel Cann smashed 16 off just six balls with one
six and two fours. Pitcher was later stretchered off the field
while attempting to take a catch.


Bashar won a good toss in overcast conditions and had no
hesitation in putting Bermuda in to bat. The move clicked as
Mortaza grabbed two early wickets to put the opposition in a
spot.


Mortaza struck in his opening over when he had Stephen
Outerbridge caught by Mohammad Rafique at fine-leg before
accounting for Delyone Borden, who was held by Bashar at mid-off.


Bermuda suffered a big setback when they lost David Hemp
(nought), the only professional in their ranks. Hemp, who cracked
a half-century against India, was caught at Aftab Ahmed at point
off left-arm seamer Syed Rasel.


The Cup debutants were reduced to 35-4 in the 11th over when
Razzak trapped skipper Irvine Romaine leg-before for 11.

