

West Indies captain Brian Lara insists his team will not crumble
when they face rampant defending champions Australia in the
opening match of the World Cup Super Eights here on Tuesday.


West Indies, bidding to become the first host nation to win the
world title, could not have chosen a more menacing opponent.


Australia cruised to victory in all of their three Group A first
round matches, hitting over 300 runs in each and saving their
best for last by scoring 377 against world number one and bitter
rivals South Africa.


Lara intends to fight fire with fire when the two sides meet at
the new Sir Viv Richards Stadium.


"I know it is a different class of opponents in the game on
Tuesday, but we've played well against Australia in the recent
past and we expect to do well if we play to our strengths," said
Lara.


His side beat Australia in the Champions Trophy group games in
India in 2006, when seamer Jerome Taylor grabbed four wickets and
Runako Morton top-scored with 90.


However, Australia had the last laugh in the final with an eight-
wicket win.


Lara fell to the classic Aussie one-two in that game - caught
Gilchrist, bowled McGrath - but believes the West Indies, buoyed
by three wins in the World Cup so far and lifted by home support,
are a better side now.


"We are very consistent. We're building to the point where we
want to get onto the bigger games, the Australians, the South
Africans, the biggest teams in the tournament. So far we've
performed really well. I'm proud of the guys," he said.


Antigua has been good to Lara.


At the old Antigua Recreation Ground, he created history in 2004
when he smashed the highest ever Test score of 400.


That was achieved on a batsman's paradise of a pitch; whether the
strip at the new Viv Richards ground is equally as generous
remains to be seen.


West Indies may need all the help they can get.


Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes his team's impressive
83-run victory over South Africa on Saturday could be the key to
securing a third successive World Cup title.


Matthew Hayden hit the fastest century in World Cup history with
a 66-ball ton in that game in St Kitts, while Michael Clarke (92)
and Ponting (91) guided Australia to 377-6, their highest total
in the competition's history.


In reply, South Africa raced to a 160-run opening stand between
AB de Villiers (92) and captain Graeme Smith (74) before being
bowled out for 294 with two overs to spare.


"The West Indies are a very dangerous team, they are on home
soil, they should know these conditions very well and they have
great crowd support from all over the Caribbean," said Ponting.


"But it starts now. Every step you take in this tournament
becomes more and more exciting."

