

Mexico's Lorena Ochoa squandered a big lead but bounced back to
claim her first victory of 2007 at the 1.5 million-dollar Safeway
International on Sunday.


The 2006 LPGA Player of the Year, Ochoa overcame a six-stroke
swing to claim the title.


After winning six tournaments last season, Ochoa claimed her 10th
career title with a final round 68, beating Norwegian Suzann
Pettersen by two strokes.


Ochoa had a four-day total of 18-under 270.


Ohoa, 25, led by four strokes entering the final round but fell
two behind Pettersen when the Norwegian struck early with four
birdies in a row from the second.


"You know what, I had no idea what position I was in," Pettersen
said.  "That was one of my goals today. I said to the people
around me, 'I'm not going to watch the leaderboard today.' So,
the first time I actually saw the leaderboard was on the 18th
green."


Ochoa, however, knew just what was happening when Peterssen made
her run.


"I was watching the leaderboard," Ochoa said. "Suzann at the
start was amazing. She's a great player, and I want to say it's a
great run and congratulations for her.


"She put a lot of pressure on me. I was feeling good.  I was
feeling fine with my game."


Ochoa bounced back with four birdies in five holes from the 14th
on to rally for the victory and head into the first major of the
season, next week's Kraft Nabisco Championship in California, on
a high note.


"That was a good time to start thinking about (Kraft)," Ochoa
said. "I can only tell you the major is everything for us - to
win one of those big tournaments, and I think I'm prepared to do
it.


"Hopefully, 2007 is the year."


Ochoa threw away this title with a terrible finish two years ago,
but she managed not to do the same thing again.


"It is hard to tell you right now, but 2005, it was a really
tough day for me," Ochoa said. "It really hurt me, especially
being here in Arizona, a pleasant place for me. I didn't like the
feeling. It was just a hard one, and I thought 'I'm going to be
back.'


"When she got ahead I knew I had to stay patient and hope the
putts would fall."


One ahead playing the par-five 18th, Ochoa sealed the victory
with a birdie.


Pettersen, seeking a first US LPGA title and a second
professional victory alongside the 2001 French Open, had a 66.


American Laura Diaz (67) and South Korean Jeong Jang (72) shared
third at 10-under.


Two-time winner Annika Sorenstam (71) tied for eighth at 7-under.

