

Prime Minister Romano Prodi faces on Tuesday a key Senate vote on
keeping Italy's 2,000 troops in Afghanistan, a month after he
resigned following the rejection of his foreign policy.


Even though the financing of the deployment appears assured of a
majority, Prodi could face renewed calls to step down if the
measure is carried only with the support of opposition lawmakers.


Debate has been fuelled by the controversy over the deal for the
release last week of an Italian journalist who had been kidnapped
in Afghanistan.


Five Taliban prisoners held in Afghan government jails were
swapped for La Repubblica correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo,
who had been held for two weeks and witnessed the beheading of
his Afghan driver before being freed March 19.


NATO allies the United States, Britain and the Netherlands
criticised the deal. Right-wing Italian politicians, as well as
the government's defence minister, also criticised the swap.


Prodi, who was reinstated and survived confidence votes in both
houses of parliament following his resignation last month, has
only a two-vote majority in the Senate.


Far-left parties in Prodi's coalition opposed to the Afghanistan
deployment and the enlargement of a US military base in northern
Italy brought about the defeat of a vote on the government's
foreign policy, sparking calls from the centre- right opposition
for the prime minister to step down.


Tuesday's vote involves financing for all of Italy's military
missions abroad, including Afghanistan, Lebanon and Bosnia.


The opposition Christian Democrats have pledged to support the
military deployments, ensuring the measure will be approved, but
not the survival of Prodi's government.


If far-left coalition senators rebel again and the vote goes in
Prodi's favour only because of support from the opposition right-
wing politicians are likely to renew their calls for the
government to resign.


"Prodi would have a moral and institutional obligation to
resign," said Pier Ferdinando Casini, head of the Christian
Democrat UDC party.


The debate may also highlight deep divisions on the government's
foreign policy within Prodi's coalition, which the recent
kidnapping deal has exacerbated.


Italy must "now fix precise limits to avoid being submitted to
unacceptable blackmail that risks compromising (Italy's)
international credibility," said infrastructure minister Antonio
Di Pietro.

