

American naval personnel would have defended themselves against
Iranian forces, who seized 15 British sailors and marines last
week, were they faced with a similar situation, a US commander
said in an interview published Monday.


Speaking to The Independent daily, Lieutenant-Commander Erik
Horner, second-in- command on the USS Underwood in the Gulf, said
the British personnel had "every right in my mind every
justification to defend themselves."


The 14 men and one woman seized on Friday by Iran were all based
on the British warship HMS Cornwall, part of a British-controlled
task force to the south of Iraq, of which the Underwood is also a
part.


Asked by the newspaper whether the men under his command would
have fired shots at the Iranians, Horner said: "Agreed. Yes."


"I don't want to second-guess the British after the fact but our
rules of engagement allow a little more latitude. Our boarding
team's training is a little bit more towards self-preservation.


"The unique US Navy rules of engagement say we not only have a
right to self- defence but also an obligation to self-defence.
They had every right in my mind every justification to defend
themselves rather than allow themselves to be taken.


"Our reaction was, 'Why didn't your guys defend themselves?'"


But a senior British defence source told The Sun on Saturday:
"They (the sailors) did the right thing. They were heavily
outnumbered and outgunned. There was no point in putting up a
fight. No shots were exchanged and from what we understand so
far, none of our people have been harmed."


British authorities said Sunday they did not know where the
personnel were being held but that Iranian officials told them
the group were all in good health.


The eight British Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines were
seized in the Gulf waterway that divides Iraq and Iran.


Britain says the group was conducting "routine" anti-smuggling
operations in Iraqi waters, but Iran said Saturday the group had
admitted to illegally entering Iranian waters.

