

Parts of international cricket matches are fixed and the practice
happens on a regular basis, former Pakistan Cricket Board
chairman Shaharyar Khan.


Spot-fixing is where the outcome of minor aspects of a game is
fixed, for example the number of wides or the score on an
individual ball.


Khan told the BBC: "I think spot-fixing is very much prevalent
and really something you cannot prevent.


"This is opposed to match-fixing which requires the whole team."


Khan, who resigned following Pakistan's forfeiture of the Oval
Test against England last August in a row over ball-tampering,
said he would be very surprised if the current Pakistan team was
involved in the throwing of an entire match.


He was speaking amid suggestions Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer was
murdered because he was about to reveal allegations of match-
fixing.


Woolmer was strangled to death, the day after Pakistan were
knocked out of the World Cup after a shock defeat to Ireland.


Khan, who was also a personal friend of Woolmer's, also told the
BBC: "Bob never shared with me any doubts about match-fixing.


"But this makes me feel that if something happened on that score
it must have been after he left Pakistan for the Caribbean and
during the two matches we lost to West Indies and Ireland.


"But I know this team and I do not think they would engage in
match-fixing. They were the most morally upright team that I came
across."


Meanwhile, the police chief heading the investigation into the
murder of Woolmer told a British Sunday newspaper that the odds
on Ireland beating Pakistan would be probed.


Mark Shields, Jamaica's deputy commissioner of police, raised
suspicions over generous odds of eight to one being touted for an
Irish win in the hours before the Pakistan match, The Observer
reported.


Rumours have swirled that the strangling murder of the 58-year-
old former England Test player may be linked to match-fixing
gangs suspecting he was soon to blow the whistle on corrupt
practices.


Shields told The Observer: "One aspect is what were the odds on
Ireland if Ireland won. I understand that they were extremely
good if you bet on Ireland. The match-fixing thing is being
looked at."

