

Australian retailer Coles on Monday said it was considering all
options for a 20 billion dollar (16.1 billion US) sale of the
group, including splitting up its supermarket and discount store
interests.


The announcement came as Coles Group Ltd, the country's second-
largest retailer, reported a 3.5 percent growth in interim
profits.


The group said net profit for the six months to January met
expectations, rising to 501.3 million dollars from 484.5 million
dollars a year earlier.


It said there had been healthy interest from potential buyers and
it was considering a full sale as well as the break-up of the
group to shed its Target discount stores and business supplies
chain Officeworks.


Executives would also consider selling a major stake in its
supermarket, liquor store and Kmart bargain store interests.


"In short, we intend to leave no stone unturned in looking at all
options that could be in the interests of our shareholders,"
chairman Rick Allert said.


Allert said the company had developed a list of protocols for the
sale which could take six months.


Among them is an agreement to allow bidding syndicates to have as
many as six members, an increase from the previously stipulated
four parties. The decision is seen as a concession to a six-party
consortium led by private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
(KKR).


An 18 billion dollar share buy-out offered last year by a KKR-led
consortium was rejected by the company.


Last month, Coles announced it was interested in a sale when it
forecast earnings of about 787 million dollars for the financial
year ending July and said profit for the following year would
fall by about 10 percent.


Chief executive John Fletcher said the latest results showed the
group was on track to meet its forecasts but that the
contribution from the supermarket business would be lower than
expected.


"The headline result is in line with our expectations as we
transition the business through its transformation programme and
commence implementation of the new growth strategy," he said.

