

Unheralded Portugal have completed the 20-strong line-up for
rugby's World Cup and are hoping that their dream of taking on
the mighty All Blacks does not turn into a nightmare.


'Los Lobos' edged out favourites Uruguay in the final play-off
tie in Montevideo to take their place in Pool C alongside the
Kiwis, Scotland, Italy and Portugal.


"We are all amateurs, it's just crazy to think that we will be
taking on the top teams in the world. It's a dream come true,"
said lock Goncalo Uva who plays his club rugby for Nimes in
France.


"We have been working hard for the last four years," he told
L'Equipe newspaper "and now we must get ourselves properly ready
for the World Cup."


The Portuguese, who will be the only first timers at the
competition being hosted by France from September 7 until October
20, will be hoping to avoid the fate of Japan who were on the
wrong end of a record 145-17 hammering against the All Blacks at
Bloemfontein in June 1995.


Assistant coach Daniel Hourcade has no doubt his side can avoid
that fate.


"That's not the end of it from us, you can believe me," he said
after the upset win over Uruguay.


"We are going to work tremendously hard to produce a great World
Cup - to do ourselves justice against the All Blacks, the Scots
and the Italians and try to beat the Romanians."


Unlike at the cricket World Cup in the Caribbean, upsets in
rugby's global equivalent from the likes of minnows Portugal,
Namibia and Georgia are unthinkable.


The 20 qualifiers show little change from four years ago in
Australia when England defeated the hosts in the final.


The top seeds are the English in Pool A, the Australians in Pool
B, favourites New Zealand in Pool C and hosts France in Pool D.
The only other previous World Cup winner, South Africa, are in
England's group.


By continental breakdown, Europe is represented by nine teams
(England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, France, Italy, Romania,
Georgia and Portugal) with five from Oceania (New Zealand,
Australia, Samoa, Tonga and Fiji), three from the Americas
(Canada, United States and Argentina), two from Africa (South
Africa and Namibia) and one from Asia (Japan).


The 20 teams are split into four groups of five with the top two
after the September 7-30 group phase qualifying for the quarter-
finals which will be held on October 6 and 7, the semi-finals on
October 13 and 14 and the final at the Stade de France in Paris
on October 20.


In all, 12 venues will be used - 10 in France at Paris (2),
Bordeaux, Lens, Lyon, Marseille, Montpellier, Nantes, St Etienne
and Toulouse as well as at Cardiff and Edinburgh.


World Cup pools


Pool A: England, South Africa, Samoa, United States, Tonga


Pool B: Australia, Wales, Fiji, Canada, Japan


Pool C: New Zealand, Scotland Italy, Romania, Portugal


Pool D: France, Ireland, Argentina, Georgia, Namibia

