

Iran will respond in the "near future" to the latest UN sanctions
and to an offer of fresh talks with major powers to resolve the
crisis over its suspect nuclear program, its foreign minister
said here Sunday.


"In the near future we will announce our position regarding the
resolution which was adopted yesterday," Manouchehr Mottaki told
a press conference here.


Asked whether Tehran was prepared to accept an offer by six major
powers -- Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United
States -- to resume talks to end the nuclear standoff, he
replied: "If there are new requests or proposals made we will
have appropriate reactions and answers to those too."


"We hope that they (the six) are not going to repeat what has
been repeated in the past," he noted, referring to the UN demand
that Iran suspend sensitive uranium enrichment in order for talks
to begin.


The Security Council's five permanent members plus Germany have
tasked EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana with seeking new
talks with Tehran on ways to stop Tehran from enriching uranium.


"Without any preconditions, Iran is always ready to join
multilateral negotiations to raise all the matters and a find a
comprehensive solution," he said.


But he made clear that "there has to be a political will in order
to reach a breakthrough, a solution."


Mottaki repeated his view that the sanctions unanimously approved
by the UN Security Council Saturday were "illegal and
unjustified" and stressed that "all questions about Iran's
nuclear program have been answered."


"The resolution passed yesterday will be examined carefully by
Iran and the response will come in the coming days," he said.


Mottaki again stressed that the "appropriate place for dealing
with the (Iranian nuclear) issue is the International Atomic
Energy Agency," not the Security Council.


In an address to the Security Council Saturday, he described the
new sanctions, which build on a first package of punitive
measures adopted in December, as "unlawful" and "unjustifiable".


"This is the fourth time in the last 12 months that in an
unwarranted move orchestrated by a few of its permanent members,
the Security Council is being abused to take an unlawful,
unnecessary and unjustifiable action against the peaceful nuclear
program of the Islamic Republic of Iran," he said.


The resolution, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes
bargaining, blocks all Iranian arms exports and freezes the
overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions
linked to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


It also restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran, and sets a
fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with UN demands or face
"further appropriate measures."


The new sanctions were imposed after Iran ignored repeated
ultimatums from the Security Council to suspend uranium
enrichment, the process that produces fuel for nuclear power
stations but in highly extended form can also make the fissile
core for an atomic bomb.


Tehran insists its nuclear program is designed for civilian
energy purposes, but Western nations fear it is a cover for
building an atomic bomb.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon also appealed for fresh dialogue, urging
Tehran "to urgently take the necessary steps to restore the
international community's trust that its nuclear program is
peaceful in nature," a statement from his office said.


Mottaki said he would leave New York later Sunday to head for
Saudi Arabia.

