

Strong aftershocks rattled residents on Japan's main island
Monday as they cleared debris and sought to return to normal a
day after a powerful earthquake killed one person and injured
nearly 200 others.


Troops, firefighters and police searched for possible missing
people and worked to restore key services such as the water
supply, which remained cut off.


More than 2,600 people spent a restless night in emergency
shelters after hundreds of buildings were damaged in Wajima, the
northern tip of the Noto peninsula on the west coast of Japan's
main island of Honshu.


Just after dawn, a 5.3-magnitude quake jolted the area, one of
the strongest of nearly 200 aftershocks since the initial
6.9-magnitude tremor early Sunday, according to the
metereological agency.


"I couldn't sleep well last night as I woke up with fear every
time an aftershock occurred," said Chiezo Seto, a 56-year-old
rice cracker maker, looking at the fallen walls of his house.


"My wife and I just finished cleaning up the shattered glass
inside my house and now I'm working on fixing my factory," Seto
said. "I'm afraid it will take some time to get back to normal."


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to assist the victims of the
latest earthquake in Japan, one of the world's most tremor-prone
countries.


"I will do my utmost to support the victims of the quake and to
reconstruct the damaged region," Abe told a parliamentary
committee.


Japan sets strict standards for buildings to be earthquake-
resistant, helping keep casualties low despite the widespread
damage from the latest tremor.


On the Noto peninsula, some 300 kilometres (186 miles) northwest
of Tokyo, residents tried to shovel away rubble scattered on
roads, while others just stood motionless with their families
looking at their collapsed houses.


One woman, 52-year-old Kiyomi Miyakoshi, died after being hit by
a stone lantern in a garden. At least 193 people were injured in
the earthquake, some of them seriously, according to the Fire and
Disaster Management Agency.


Some 130 people were still stranded at a highway rest area as the
quake caused landslides that blocked roads, the agency said.


Ambulances sped through the darkness with sirens wailing
overnight, avoiding cracks on roads, some of which were covered
with mud and trees.


More than 300 buildings were damaged, of which 68 were completely
destroyed in the city of Wajima, many of them wooden houses with
heavy tiled roofs, officials said.


Japan is one of the most quake-prone nations in the world, with
its cities constantly living in fear of "The Big One."


It lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and endures about
20 percent of the world's most powerful earthquakes, which
frequently jolt Tokyo and other major cities.


A 7.3-magnitude earthquake in the western city of Kobe in January
1995 killed 6,437 people, while 67 people were killed and
hundreds injured in 2004 in a 6.8-magnitude quake in the Niigata
region, northwest of Tokyo.

