

A lightning campaign wrapped up in Egypt on Sunday ahead of a
referendum on constitutional amendments, with the regime
defending the changes and the opposition rallying support for a
boycott.


Turnout was expected to be low in Monday's referendum, which will
take place only a week after the changes proposed by President
Hosni Mubarak were rushed through parliament.


The regime touts the changes as a boost to democracy and
security, while the opposition argues they will roll back basic
civil rights and were only designed to prevent further political
gains by Egypt's popular Islamists.


Washington has voiced unusual criticism of its regional ally over
the amendments, but Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit defended
the changes on Sunday at a joint press conference with US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


"Egypt is a focal country. When Egypt is shaken, the entire
region will be shaken," he warned.


"I have made my concerns known as well as my hopes for continued
reform here in Egypt," said Rice, who was in the southern city of
Aswan as part of a regional tour and met Mubarak for more than an
hour.


Opposition movements, rights groups and many observers have
argued the amendments are anything but the "great leap forward"
for democracy promised by the 78-year-old Mubarak, who has ruled
Egypt since 1981.


They say the new anti-terrorism clauses in the constitution will
allow suspects to be arrested without warrants and referred to
military courts, as well as reduce judicial oversight of
elections.


One amendment also bans all political activity based on religion,
in a move directly targeting the popular Muslim Brothers. The
Islamist group is officially outlawed but controls a fifth of
parliament.


The Islamist and secular opposition has united in a call to
boycott the referendum and several demonstrations were held under
tight security across the country on Sunday in protest at the
amendments.


Scuffles broke out and several arrests were made when hundreds of
police tried to prevent a few dozen demonstrators from gathering
in central Cairo. Photographers had their cameras confiscated by
security forces.


About 300 people also demonstrated outside the lawyers' syndicate
in the north Sinai town of El-Arish, carrying banners and
shouting slogans against the proposed amendments.


Dozens gathered outside the main courthouse in the Suez Canal
city of Ismailiya carrying banners that branded the amendments "a
violation of personal rights."


On Saturday, some 400 people took part in a demonstration in the
city of Suez organised by the liberal opposition Wafd party.


"We have decided to boycott the referendum and call on all
citizens to boycott it," the Muslim Brotherhood deputy supreme
guide, Mohammed Habib, told AFP.


His Islamist group even suggested that a boycott of the
referendum was a religious obligation but the country's top
religious authority hit back on Sunday by arguing that
participating in the vote was a "duty to God".


The imam of Al-Azhar, Sheikh Mohammed Sayed Tantawi, said
"everyone should go to the polling stations and vote," his
spokesman Sheikh Abdullah Megawer told AFP.


"It is the duty of the people to go and make their voices heard.
It is a duty to God and to the nation," he said.


The last referendum to take place in Egypt was in May 2005 when
Mubarak proposed a constitutional amendment that paved the way
for the country's first pluralist presidential election.


Turnout was put officially at 53 percent but experts and
observers said it barely exceeded three percent.

