

Head coach Zhang Yadong has hit back at rumours that China is
secretly training 50 swimmers to unleash on the Beijing Olympics,
and insisted doping was no longer a problem.


He appealed for the international community to give his swimmers
a fair go as he attempted to halt persistent speculation that
China was not being transparent.


"I have read about a secret training camp where children are
treated inhumanely (to prepare for the Beijing Olympics)," Zhang
told Monday's The Australian newspaper.


"That's a joke, it's not true, you can't take that seriously.
There is no chance for the Chinese team to hide anyone. That's
impossible."


He said that 90 percent of the 45 swimmers competing at the World
Swimming Championships here would make up their team in Beijing
next year, and said drugs had been removed from the sport in
China.


"There are no doping problems now. China takes this problem
seriously. If you have a doping problem you will be prohibited
permanently in China," he said.


Speculation about a secret training camp resurfaced last week
when Australian coach Ken Wood said he suspected China was
grooming a group of swimmers no-one knew about so they could
blitz the medals at the Olympics.


But he stopped short of suggesting the Chinese were evading drug
testers by not sending them to the world championships.


"When they identified those 100 swimmers 18 months ago, 50 of
them have disappeared, you don't know what they are going to do,"
he said.


"I think Beijing's going to be the one and I just think they're
keeping them away and training them in the different area and
competing among themselves, for whatever reason."


US head coach Mark Schubert, meanwhile, made clear last week that
sport would not tolerate a repeat of the 1994 world
championships, when Chinese swimmers performed beyond
expectations amid widespread suspicions of doping.


Later that same year seven swimmers tested positive for steroids
at the 1994 Asian Games in Hiroshima, which left the squad so
decimated that China won only one swimming gold at the Atlanta
Olympics two years later.


The decline was only temporary and by 1998 China's women were
rising back to the top -- until four more positive tests and the
discovery of Human Growth Hormone in a swimmer's luggage at that
year's world championships in Perth.


The newspaper said Zhang became angry with persistent questions
about China's doping record, and particularly former head coach
Zhou Ming, who oversaw the worst period of China's doping
history.


Zhou was banned for eight years after the 1998 scandal but has
since reappeared as a coach in China.


Zhang said China developed a drugs problem in the 1980s because
it "learned from America and European countries, especially
Germany. We learned both ways, the positive and the negative
ways."


But he said it was in the past and China was now a clean country.


"The reports always say China has a huge doping control problem;
we ask that you give China a fair judgment," he said.


"From 2000, there's no problem in the national team. We have some
problems before 2000 but now we have sunlight and the old times
are gone."

