

Leaders of the main Catholic and Protestant political parties in
Northern Ireland are likely to meet Monday to try to reach an
agreement on power sharing ahead of a midnight deadline,
Democratic Unionist Party and British government sources said.


The Protestant DUP, which favours remaining part of Britain, on
Saturday agreed to form an executive with its long-standing
Catholic rivals Sinn Fein, who want union with the Republic of
Ireland, but wants six weeks to overcome outstanding hurdles.


Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain said earlier the 2300 GMT
Monday deadline still meant "devolution or dissolution" of the
British-run province's assembly and he would not listen to any
alternatives unless all parties agreed.


"Let's wait and see. In the absence of the parties themselves
coming to us and saying, we have an alternative way forward, we
are going to do it our way: Stormont will close down if
devolution doesn't happen," Hain told AFP.


A DUP source said a first-ever meeting of DUP and Sinn Fein
leaders was likely before the deadline.


"Things look reasonably okay. The logistics have to be
finalised," the party source told AFP.


A government source was also hopeful a meeting will take place.


"Our approach is to get to the point where the parties engage
directly. My sense is that is the case, and that it will happen,"
said the source.


Hain signed Sunday an order restoring devolved powers to the
Northern Ireland Assembly, in which the DUP and Sinn Fein
dominate after elections earlier this month, to allow the parties
to try to form an executive.


Hain said DUP leader Ian Paisley twice attempted to persuade him
and British Prime Minister Tony Blair to introduce emergency
legislation on Monday to implement the six-week delay.


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, in Berlin for the 50th
anniversary celebrations of the European Union, also said on
Sunday that he will not heed the DUP's calls for a delay unless
Sinn Fein were to agree.


"A lot of people think that there has been enough time and I
agree with that view," he said on the sidelines of the meeting,
confirming that he had discussed the matter with his British
counterpart Tony Blair.


"I will move nothing until everybody agrees. If they don't, it
collapses tomorrow (Monday)."


The DUP source said that a number of issues will be discussed at
the meeting, including the programme for government and finances.
The DUP will also want to test Sinn Fein's commitment to the
Police Service of Northern Ireland, the source said.


The DUP has refused to share power until Sinn Fein -- the former
political wing of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) -- accepts the
rule of British law and supports the police force and the IRA
renounces violence.


If the two parties reach agreement before the deadline, Paisley
is likely to become the province's first minister, with Sinn Fein
chief negotiator Martin McGuinness his likely deputy.


The Northern Ireland Assembly was created by the 1998 Good Friday
or Belfast peace agreement that largely brought an end to three
decades of sectarian violence in the British-run province.


It has been suspended since October 2002 when allegations
surfaced of a republican spy-ring operating at the assembly
buildings, and Northern Ireland has been governed directly from
London ever since.


Blair and Ahern revived prospects for power-sharing in the
troubled province with the so-called St. Andrews Agreement in
November last year, named for the Scottish city where the
negotiations took place.

