

Fifteen British naval personnel held in Iran stand accused of
"illegal entry" into the country's territorial waters, Iranian
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said here Sunday.


"The charge against them is illegal entry into Iranian
territorial waters and the isuue is being considered legally," he
told a press conference shortly after British Prime Minister Tony
Blair called the seizure of the 15 "unjustified and wrong"


"Iranian authorities intercepted these sailors and marines in
Iranian waters and detained them in Iranian waters. This has
happened in the past as well," Mottaki said. "In terms of legal
issue, it's under investigation."


He said his British counterpart Margaret Beckett had requested a
telephone call with him, adding "this will probably happen some
time this afternoon."


"They were in Iraqi water, it is not true that they went into
Iranian territorial waters," Blair told reporters on the
sidelines of EU 50th anniversary celebrations in Berlin.


"The quicker it is resolved, the easier it is for all. But it is
quite unjustified and wrong."


British authorities said they did not know where the personnel,
who were seized on Friday, were being held, but Iran said the 14
men and one woman were all well.


The eight British Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines, all
based on the British warship HMS Cornwall, were seized in the
Gulf waterway that divides Iraq and Iran.


Britain says the group was conducting "routine" anti-smuggling
operations, but Iran said Saturday the group had admitted to
illegally entering Iranian waters.


British press reports have speculated that the naval personnel
could be used as bargaining chips in the mounting war of words
between Tehran and the West or traded for Iranians captured in
Iraq earlier this year.


Saturday, Mottaki addressed the UN Security Council after it
unanimously slapped new sanctions on Iran over its refusal to
suspend uranium enrichment, which major powers suspect could hide
a bid to develop nuclear weapons.


The Iranian minister Sunday again described the sanctions as
"illegal and unjustified" and stressed that "all questions about
Iran's nuclear program have been answered."


Tehran insists its nuclear program is peaceful and says it has
the right to conduct uranium enrichment as a signatory to the
nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

