

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice takes her new shuttle
diplomacy for Mideast peace to Jordan Monday, hoping to build
Arab support for a fall-back approach to rescuing Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations.


Rice is scheduled to meet with Jordan's King Abdullah II and
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas on the third leg of a tour
that has already included talks with key Arab moderates in Egypt
and an initial round of consultations with Israeli and
Palestinian leaders.


US officials said Rice would then give a press conference in
Jerusalem Monday night to present what she has described as a
cautious new "parallel" diplomatic approach for advancing
deadlocked Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts.


The top US diplomat met Sunday with Abbas and Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert as part of the latest US initiative.


The goal is to develop a replacement strategy for three-way
diplomacy Rice launched last month by bringing Olmert and Abbas
together.


The effort quickly crumbled after Abbas' secular Fatah party
joined a power- sharing "unity" government led by the Islamic
movement Hamas.


The United States and its international partners have boycotted
the government over Hamas' refusal to renounce violence and
recognise Israel's right to exist and Olmert has ruled out any
contacts with its ministers and said it would only maintain
limited dealings with Abbas -- undercutting Rice's trilateral
peacemaking plan.


"We are in a situation in which I think a bilateral approach, in
which I talk in parallel to the parties to find a common
approach, is the best way" forward, Rice said Sunday of her new
plans following a first round of talks with Abbas.


US officials said Rice planned to formally unveil the new
strategy during a press conference Monday night in Jerusalem
following the talks with Abdullah and Abbas in Jordan and a new
meeting with Olmert in Jerusalem.


The difficulties she faces were clear Sunday as Olmert and Abbas
traded angry accusations that each had violated past promises.


To overcome the mistrust generated by the unity government deal,
Rice has also sought the support of Sunni Arab allies like Jordan
for a new regional push to entice Israel back into negotiations.


Over the weekend in Aswan, Egypt, Rice discussed her plans with
officials from Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
emirates, saying her goal was to help revive a dormant Arab plan
for peace with Israel at an Arab League summit this week in Saudi
Arabia.


The plan, initially presented by Saudi Arabia in 2002, called for
a blanket Arab recognition of Israel if it returned to its 1967
borders, allowed the creation of a Palestinian state and accepted
the return of Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the take-it-or-leave-it initiative when it was
first made by Saudi Arabia in 2002 at an Arab summit in Beirut.


But Israeli leaders have recently spoken more positively of the
ideas as a starting point for negotiations, as long as they are
revised to specify that Palestinian refugees can return to
Palestinian-controlled areas, not to the Jewish state.


Arab leaders have balked at revising their blueprint but Rice
indicated that even an endorsement of the existing proposals
could help overcome the mistrust created by the Palestinian unity
government deal.


"I would hope that every (Arab) state will search very deep to
see what it can do at this crucial time to finally end this
conflict," she said.

