

Reigning French Open champions Justine Henin and Rafael Nadal
advanced to the fourth round of the WTA and ATP Masters Series
hardcourt event here on Sunday in very different fashion.


Spanish second seed Nadal won by walkover after his opponent
Olivier Rochus withdrew with left foot pain while Belgian top
seed Henin outlasted France's Virginie Razzano 6-2, 2-6, 7-6
(7/5).


Swiss fifth seed Martina Hingis and Serbian seventh seed Jelena
Jankovic were eliminated in third-round upsets at the 6.9
million-dollar tournament.


Nadal, whose first title since Roland Garros came last week at
Indian Wells, will next face the winner of a later match between
Russian Mikhail Youzhny and Argentina's Juan Martin del Potro
thanks to Rochus' departure.


Rochus suffered his injury in a second-round victory over Spain's
Guillermo Garcia-Lopez and was unable to recover in time for a
third-round meeting with the Spanish star.


"At 3-0, love-30, I went back and landed on my foot and I really
felt a sharp pain on my foot. I thought it would be better but I
cannot put my feet on the ground, especially (because) it's on my
heel," Rochus said.


"My heel is so painful there is no way I can go on the court.
There is no way. Otherwise I would have really tried. But it's
just the way it is."


Henin advanced to face the winner of a later match between
Slovakia's Daniela Hantuchova and Russia's Vera Zvonareva, but
not before 71st-ranked Razzano gave her a battle.


Hingis and Jankovic were unable to answer challenges in the third
set, with Poland's Agnieszka Radwanska ousting Hingis 4-6, 6-3,
6-2 and Italy's Maria Santangelo downing Jankovic 2-6, 7-6 (7/3),
6-4.


Nadal was the first man to reach the fourth round but two other
high seeds, number four Nikolay Davydenko of Russia and number
six Tommy Robredo of Spain, advanced with straight-set triumphs.


Robredo defeated American Kevin Kim 6-2, 6-4 while Davydenko beat
Germany's Simon Greul 6-4, 6-0.


On the women's side, Belgian fourth seed Kim Clijsters booked a
fourth-round date with China's Li Na by defeating Australian
Samantha Stosur 6-4, 6-2.


Li advanced with a 6-0, 6-1 romp over Slovenia's Katarina
Srebotnik.


Russians Nadia Safina and Dinara Safina booked a fourth-round
matchup as well.


Sixth seed Petrova beat compatriot Ekaterina Byvhkova 6-1, 6-1
while Safina, the younger sister of ATP star Marat Safin, ousted
Japan's Ai Sugiyama 6-4, 3-6, 6-1.

