

Serbian and Kosovo Albanian leaders remain deeply opposed over
the special UN envoy's plan for the future of Kosovo, expected to
be internationally supervised independence.


Belgrade rejects any indpendence for its southern province, while
Kosovo Albanians want to break all links with Serbia.


Here are short profiles of some of the key political
personalities involved:


VOJISLAV KOSTUNICA


The outgoing Serbian prime minister who has been at the helm of
the government since 2004 has conditioned his participation in
the new cabinet on the firm rejection of Kosovo independence.


The 62-year-old lawyer and constitutional expert instead offers
the province broad autonomy within the existing borders of
Serbia.


Supported by the Serbian Orthodox Church and most political
parties, Kostunica insists a solution to Kosovo's status should
be found in accordance with international law, providing respect
for the rights for Serbs and other non- Albanian minorities.


BORIS TADIC


The Serbian president, who took office in July 2004 has warned
that independence of Kosovo could further destabilise the tense
Balkan region.


Tadic has backed the prime minister's stance that there should be
no "imposed" solution, and has called for the highest level of
protection for Serbs and other minorities in the province.


He has urged Serbia to "forget nationalist policies" which led to
its international isolation during the 1990s regime of former
president Slobodan Milosevic.


TOMISLAV NIKOLIC


As the leader of the ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical Party,
Nikolic has strongly opposed Kosovo's independence.


A hardliner who enjoys strong support among Serbs who feel that
the country is a victim of Western aggression, Nikolic insists
that any decision on Kosovo's future should be approved by a
Serbian referendum.


He is in favour of breaking diplomatic ties with any country that
recognises Kosovo's independence.


FATMIR SEJDIU


Kosovo's ethnic Albanian president was elected to office last
year following the death of Ibrahim Rugova, who is considered the
father of the province's likely independence.


The 55-year-old law professor has been a close ally of Rugova's
since entering politics and consistently supported his policy of
non-violent resistance to the Milosevic regime.


Although a moderate, Sejdiu shares the uncompromising position of
all ethnic Albanian political leaders when says that he can "talk
and negotiate with Serbia about everything but the independence
of Kosovo."


HASHIM THACI


Thaci, a 38-year-old historian, first came into the spotlight as
one of the leaders of the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA), the
ethnic Albanian guerrillas who fought for independence from
Serbia during the province's 1998-1999 war.


Hailing from the central Drenica region, a hotbed of ethnic
Albanian separatism, he became a student activist during the
years of passive resistance to Belgrade's rule in the 1990s.


Thaci walked away from Rugova's pacifist approach and went
underground to join the KLA, but was elected a member of the
Interim Adminstrative Council at the end of the conflict.


AGIM CEKU


A former rebel commander who became Kosovo's prime minister
almost a year ago. Ceku served in the Yugoslav National Army,
then in the Croatian Army against Serb forces during that
republic's war, before joining the KLA in 1999.


At the end of the Kosovo war, Ceku supervised the KLA's
demilitarisation and oversaw its transformation into the UN-
supervised Kosovo Protection Corps, becoming its commander.


In 2002, Serbia's judiciary indicted him for war crimes against
ethnic Serbs when he served in the Croatian army, as well as
alleged atrocities in Kosovo.


Kosovo Albanians have regularly chosen him as their most liked
and trustworthy politician in opinion polls.

