

Despite calls for a full apology, Prime Minister Tony Blair
instead expressed "deep sorrow and regret" for Britain's role in
the slave trade on Sunday, the 200th anniversary of its
abolition.


In a video message recorded for Ghanaian celebrations to mark the
bicentenary, Blair said that legislation passed on March 25, 1807
banning the practice began the process of ending "one of the most
shameful enterprises in history."


In the message, which was also aired on British television, he
said: "It is an opportunity for the United Kingdom to express our
deep sorrow and regret for our nation's role in the slave trade
and for the unbearable suffering, individually and collectively,
it caused."


Blair, in Berlin for the European Union's 50th anniversary
celebrations, added that there was "a great deal still to do" in
combatting modern forms of slavery, such as child soldiers and
human trafficking.


"This day in 1807 represented a historic turning point in the
relationship between Africa and the UK," Blair said.


"In marking this bicentenary with equal reverence and
celebration, we must commit ourselves to tackling the injustices
in our modern world with the same energy and dedication."


He has faced repeated calls to make a full apology in the run-up
to the bicentenary, which was marked on Saturday in London with a
commemorative march.


The Church of England's first black archbishop, Ugandan-born John
Sentamu, who is the Church of England's second most senior
cleric, joined calls urging Blair to "go a bit further" and issue
a full apology.


The Church itself had slaves on plantations in the Caribbean and
made a formal apology last year.


Sentamu and the Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams led more
than 1,000 people through the streets of London on Saturday to
mark the bicentenary.


Earlier this month, Blair told a joint news conference with the
visiting Ghanaian President John Kufuor: "I have said we're sorry
(for the slave trade) and I say it again now.


"I think for us the most important thing, though, is obviously to
remember what happened in the past and to condemn it and to say
why it was so entirely unacceptable."


In November, Blair expressed "deep sorrow" over slavery but
stopped short of a full apology, while Northern Ireland and Welsh
Secretary Peter Hain has gone a step further by offering a full
apology for the roles the provinces played.


Baroness Valerie Amos, Britain's first black cabinet minister,
attended the ceremonies in Ghana on Sunday and described slavery
as "one of the most shameful and uncomfortable chapters in
British history".


Nearly three million black people are thought to have been
shipped across the North Atlantic Ocean in British slave boats
between 1700 and the start of the 19th century.


Trade in black slaves was banned throughout the British empire by
the 1807 law, imposing a fine of 100 pounds per slave found on
any British boat.


Slavery was completely outlawed in British colonies in 1833.

