

If you think BMW is only a classy car and five days at 5,800
dollars (4,400 euros) is a pitch for an exotic getaway, think
again  -- if you're a diplomat, CIA operative or a high-profile
executive, it could be your ticket to success.


The formula is offered by professional etiquette coach Pamela
Eyring who gives a persuasive argument that how you shake hands,
raise a toast or choose a gift for your host can make or break
your reputation as a player in today's global field.


For the past 18 years, her Protocol School of Washington has
groomed more than 1,900 pupils with straightforward practical
training beefed up by mnemonic aids like "BMW" -- for bread, meal
and wine, a device to recall during the tensest million-dollar
dinner deal that bread stays on the left, the meal in the middle
and wine on the right.


"We teach formalities such as appropriate eye contact and hand
shaking," Eyring told AFP as she hosted about 15 students at a
seminar in an upscale hotel near Washington.


"In the US, eye contact for 60 percent of the time is acceptable.
If you don't give an American 40 to 60 percent eye contact, they
don't trust you or they think you are not listening to them.


"However, going back to Asian culture, 40 percent eye contact is
too strong."


Today, Eyring said, "we are more global than we have been in the
US...You can't just apply one rule to one country.


"We really embrace other cultures and teach other cultures so
that we can build better relations with different people from
different countries."


Though most students come from the business world, the self-
styled ambassadress of manners has also trained officials from
the US Federal Bureau of Investigation and Central Intelligence
Agency.


The academy had its first Chinese student earlier this year,
Eyring said, and is bracing for more as the 2008 Olympics in
Beijing approach.


"I believe China is a hot number. So many people are curious
about China with the Olympic games coming."


On the 'menu' during a recent course was dining etiquette -- and
the students were struggling.


"In continental style the wrists are on the table," said Eyring,
former chief of protocol at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in
the midwestern state of Ohio. "In America we put them on our
lap."


The latter spelled the downfall of an American spy in World War
II, who blew his cover and was arrested by the Nazis, Eyring
said. His fault? He left his hands on his knees at a dinner
party.


And don't forget the subtleties of the fork. In "continental" or
European-style dining, the fork is always held in the left hand
in Europe whereas Americans switch the fork to the right hand
once they have finished cutting their meat.


The appropriate "rest position" for silverware is also important,
and the toast -- primordial.


Dessert is the moment to lift one's glass to honor someone  --
and if you're the recipient of the tribute, you must under no
circumstance take a sip yourself.


The intricacies of gift-giving are also critical, said Eyring who
noted several faux-pas to avoid.


A knife, for example, even a finely worked model in sterling
silver, is a no-no as it symbolizes severed relationship. A
handkerchief means tears and grieving, while a clock can be fatal
-- signifying time running out, or even death.


Taboos also hold for conversation, according to one of the
school's instructors Nicole Krakora, director of special events
and protocol at the Smithsonian Institution, who hammered into
the students three subjects to avoid -- crime, poverty and
religion.


"Be friendly but not familiar," she said. "Be careful with jokes
and humor."


She also encouraged pupils to familiarize themselves with foreign
media rather than just the 24-hour US news channel, CNN.


"Watch BBC, don't watch only American news, be open-minded," she
said.

