

Park Tae-hwan's stunning upset victory in the 400m freestyle
world title race has inspired Asian swimmers who are tipping him
to grab more gold before the championships are over.


South Korea has never had a world champion before with China and
Japan the traditional Asian powerhouses, but the 17-year-old has
emerged from a training regime in Australia under coach Wayne
Lawes stronger and more confident.


He was the talk of the pool Monday with Chinese rival Zhang Lin
saying he had no doubt the Seoul schoolboy would beat defending
champion Grant Hackett and win the 400m gold.


"We saw his race and knew he would win," said Zhang.


"We are both Asian athletes but I can see that he has changed a
lot ever since starting his training in Australia. He has
physically become a lot stronger than before.


"The distance between him and other Asian athletes are getting
increasingly bigger, but that is also what motivates me to swim
better."


Hackett, Park's idol, said he believes the youngster is one for
the future given his age.


"He's a force to be reckoned with. Park is swimming very well and
is prepared very well for this meet," Hackett said.


Japan's Daisuke Hosokawa said was impressed with the development
Park had made since bursting on the scene at the Asian Games in
Doha in December where he won the 200m-400m-1500m treble and was
named athlete of the Games.


"I was certainly impressed. I have empathy because we are Asian,"
he said.


New Zealand's Michael Jack said he was proving an inspiration.


"It has got to be Park Tae-hwan," he said when asked who he saw
as the next standout swimmer.


"Two years ago I was racing him in the 200m freestyle. His swim
on Sunday was just amazing, coming up from third position at the
last turn to win so comfortably."


Park, who suffered from asthma as a child and only started
swimming after doctors said it could improve his condition, got
his campaign for the 200m freestyle title underway Monday.


He faces a huge task to overhaul Olympic champion Pieter Van Den
Hoogenband  and Amercian superstar Michael Phelps, but showed he
has what it takes by qualifying third behind his more illustrious
rivals in 1:47.58,


Van den Hoogenband touched in 1:47.36 and Phelps in 1:47.52.


Canadian Brian Johns, who also the 200m semi-finals, said he
would not be surprised if Park sprung another major upset in the
final on Tuesday.


"I think everybody has a pretty good chance, there is a deep pool
of competition, but Park is a great swimmer and you have to see
it coming if he wins."


Park's new training regime was made possible after he signed a
two-year 3.2 million US dollar sponsorship deal with Speedo
following his Asian Games heroics.


The money is earmarked to fund his coaching, provide a weight
trainer, a translator and a nutritionist, all of whom he brought
to Australia.

