

Colombia denied Sunday that its army commander collaborated with
outlaw, private paramilitary squads, as a US newspaper reported
based on CIA documents.


"The government of Colombia rejects accusations that foreign
intelligence agencies have made against General Mario Montoya ...
through leaks to the press without any prior evidence having been
presented to Colombia's justice system or government," said a
statement released from the presidential palace.


Montoya was previously commander of the 4th army brigade before
President Alvaro Uribe named him to command the army.


Uribe has been dogged by accusations that he has ties to the
right-wing paramilitary armies, dating back to his days as
governor of Antioquia province.


More recently, accusations of ties to the paramilitaries forced
the resignation of Uribe's foreign minister, after her brother
and several other senators of Uribe's governing coalition were
arrested on suspicion of collaborating with the paramilitaries.


Uribe's choice to head Colombia's secret police was also
implicated.


Colombia is the closest US ally in the region, and the United
States has lavished 4.8 billion dollars on Plan Colombia, to
fight drug trafficking and leftist rebels.


"The Colombian government asks foreign intelligence agencies to
present any evidentiary accusation against members of Colombia's
institutions to the judicial authorities," the statement said.


The Los Angeles Times reported Sunday that the US Central
Intelligence Agency has information showing Montoya collaborated
with the paramilitaries Washington considers terrorist groups.


The CIA report says Montoya and a paramilitary group jointly
conducted a military operation in 2002 to eliminate Marxist
guerrillas from poor areas around Medellin, Colombia's industrial
city, according to the Times account.


At least 14 people died during the operation, and Uribe opponents
allege that dozens more disappeared in its aftermath, the report
said.


In the CIA document, an informant reported that the army, police
and paramilitaries had signed documents spelling out their plans
for the operation, Times said.


The signatories, according to the informant, were Montoya, the
local police commander and paramilitary leader Fabio Jaramillo, a
subordinate of Diego Fernando Murillo Bejarano, the head of
Medellin paramilitaries.


Murillo took control of Medellin's drug trade after Pablo Escobar
died, the report said. He is now in a Colombian prison, and the
Unites States wants his extradition.


Montoya has served as an instructor at the US-sponsored military
training center formerly called the School of the Americas, the
paper said.

