

Guide to the four venues being used for the World Cup Super
Eights which start on Tuesday:


VIVIAN RICHARDS STADIUM (North Sound, Antigua)


Status: A brand new stadium


Investment: 21 million US dollars


Capacity: 20,000 of which 10,000 will be permanent


It's fitting that Antigua's stadium for the World Cup has been
named after the island's most famous player, Sir Vivian Richards.


Constructed with assistance from the Chinese Government, the
brand new stadium replaces the Antigua Recreation Ground as the
island's major cricket venue.


Located four miles outside of the capital St. John's, the stadium
will host six Super Eight matches.


The stadium will feature two main stands at the northern and
southern ends, and temporary seating on the eastern and western
embankments will increase the capacity.


Tale of the Track: Unknown, but the host board hopes it offers
much more than the ARG which was a notorious featherbed, and saw
Brian Lara twice break the world record for the highest
individual score in Tests


KENSINGTON OVAL (Bridgetown, Barbados)


Status: Reconstruction


Investment: 67.5 million dollars


Capacity: 30,000 of which 15,000 will be permanent


Affectionately described as "the Mecca of Caribbean cricket",
Kensington Oval is steeped in history, and it was the venue for
the first Test in the Caribbean.


The ground will host six Super Eight matches and the final on
April 28.


Only two buildings - the Mitchie Hewitt Stand and the Wes Hall
& Charlie Griffith Stand - remain from the old facility, and
they have both been enhanced with improved seating and
sightlines.


A statue of Sir Garfield Sobers now forms the focal point of the
exterior, and the ground has been given a comprehensive facelift
to meet international standards, with upgrades undertaken to
provide additional seats, as well as improved player, media, and
sponsor facilities.


Tale of the Track: Unknown, since the pitches had to be shifted
20 metres north east to accommodate the expansion, but a few
warm-up matches between local club sides were held to test the
surface and it played true


QUEEN'S PARK STADIUM (St. George's, Grenada)


Status: Refurbished


Investment: 40 million dollars


Capacity: 17,000 of which 13,000 will be permanent


Originally constructed in 1998, the Queen's Park Stadium was
destroyed six years later by the ravages of Hurricane Ivan, one
of the most destructive weather systems in Caribbean history.


The stadium, located on the National Stadium complex, has been
rebuilt with the assistance of the Chinese government and boasts
of VIP suites and boxes, improved player facilities, an
electronic scoreboard, and a state-of-the-art public address
system.


The old Queen's Park had hosted a One-day International in 1983,
but the refurbished ground became the 84th Test venue when West
Indies played New Zealand there five years ago, and also hosted
eight ODIs before its devastation.


Located on the outskirts of the capital of the Spice Isle, it
will host six Super Eight matches.


Tale of the Track: Easy-paced with predictable bounce


PROVIDENCE STADIUM (Providence, Guyana)


Status: New


Investment: 25 million dollars


Capacity: 15,000


Constructed with assistance from the Indian Government, the
Providence Stadium replaces the historic Bourda Oval as the
country's major cricket venue and is located about 10 minutes
drive outside of the capital of Georgetown.


It was an easy decision for local authorities to choose to build
a new venue for the only country on mainland South America where
the game is probably more popular than football.


Bourda had become an eyesore and suffered from inadequate
drainage that often made a mockery of the 30 Tests and 11 One-day
Internationals hosted there whenever the notorious equatorial
weather took control.


The Providence Stadium, however, has been dogged by problems with
the result that the local organising committee was relieved of
control of the project by the World Cup organisers at the
weekend.


The Providence Stadium will host six Super Eight matches.


Tale of the Track: Unknown, but the host board hopes it offers
much more than Bourda which was notoriously easy-paced

