

The US strategic partnership with its key "war on terror" ally
Pakistan is under growing scrutiny in Washington as President
Pervez Musharraf reels from his worst crisis since grabbing power
eight years ago.


Concerns that Musharraf has not been doing enough to flush out
extremist Taliban militia from their Pakistan sanctuaries were
compounded this month by his removal of a top judge that appeared
to deal a blow to hopes of reestablishing democracy in the South
Asian state.


While it is not clear whether the judicial crisis will snowball,
it has "shaken the aura of invincibility that Musharraf has
enjoyed until now," the Washington- based Center of Strategic and
Intelligence Studies said in a report.


The threat to Musharraf's grip on power has rekindled fears in
Washington whether a strategic relationship anchored in effect by
one man in Pakistan is sustainable in the long run.


"The US strategic partnership with Pakistan is in a troubled
state," said Marvin Weinbaum, a former US State Department expert
on Pakistan.


"It rests too heavily on the political survival of one man and a
military rule facing formidable domestic challenges and declining
legitimacy," he said.


Washington's preoccupation with counterterrorism since the
September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States has in effect
given Musharraf "a pass on satisfying us on the issues of
democracy, nuclear proliferation and extremism," Weinbaum said.


President George W. Bush's administration has ruled out any
immediate threat of Musharraf being toppled, but the Democratic-
controlled US Congress is not taking chances.


"What we truly need in Pakistan is someone else to talk to," said
Democrat lawmaker Gary Ackerman, who heads a House of
Representatives panel on South Asia.


"The administration seems content to only speak with president
Musharraf and portrays him as the indispensable man. The truth
is, for our goals to be achieved in Pakistan, there should be
more than one phone number there to dial," he said.


In fact, several senior senate Democrats have written to
Musharraf, asking him to ensure that the coming polls were open
and free with participation of key political parties of exiled
ex-prime ministers Benazir Bhutto and Nawal Sharif.


"The single most concrete measure of progress would be to allow
all legitimate parties and candidates to contest the elections,
including the senior leadership of the Pakistan People's Party
and the Pakistan Muslim League," said the letter.


Among the signatories was Senator Joseph Biden, head of the
powerful senate foreign relations committee.


Bhutto, who heads the Pakistan People's Party (PPP), has
reportedly clinched a contract with a US lobbying firm to push
for free elections in the country.


The United States should "extend contacts and visibility with a
variety of civilian leaders" in Pakistan, said Lisa Curtis of the
Washington-based Heritage Foundation.


Although the military is unlikely to submit fully to a civilian
government in the near term, Washington should set benchmarks
that begin to restrict the military's role in Pakistani politics,
she said.


If Musharraf continues to renege on his promise to shed his
uniform, his legitimacy could be seriously challenged, "if not in
the courts then in the streets," Weinbaum warned.


Against the ominous political backdrop in Pakistan, the United
States is concerned about further losses in the battlefield.


It has openly linked Pakistan to the raging insurgency in
neighboring Afghanistan, where US and NATO troops face an uphill
battle against the Taliban preparing for a major spring
offensive.


Pakistan helped the Taliban to power in 1996 but dropped the
hardline movement in 2001 after the September 11 attacks blamed
on Al-Qaeda, whose leader Osama bin Laden was sheltered in
Afghanistan.

