

Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah on Sunday approved a
new 16-member cabinet with two women ministers for the first
time, with the main posts remaining unchanged, official media
said.


The cabinet did not include outgoing health minister Sheikh Ahmad
al-Abdullah al-Sabah, a senior ruling family member, who faced a
vote of no-confidence by the opposition-dominated parliament.


The former cabinet resigned on March 4 in an attempt to avoid the
minister from being voted out of office. It was the third cabinet
to step down in the oil-rich emirate during the past 14 months.


The first one resigned in January last year following a bitter
power struggle within the ruling family after the death of late
emir Sheikh Jaber al-Ahmad al- Sabah.


The second one resigned in early July following general elections
in which the Islamic and nationalist opposition scored a
resounding victory and controlled the majority in the 50-seat
parliament.


The election was called after parliament was dissolved following
a standoff between the government and opposition MPs over
electoral reforms.


Relations between lawmakers and the government remained strained
over a host of issues and amid threats to question ministers over
allegations of corruption and mismanagement.


Besides Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Mohammad al-Ahmad al-Sabah,
a nephew of the emir, the main posts remained held by members of
the ruling Al-Sabah family.


Sheikh Jaber Mubarak al-Sabah was retained as first deputy
premier and minister of defence and interior, while Sheikh
Mohammad al-Sabah stayed as deputy premier and foreign minister.


The economic team in the new cabinet remained almost unchanged.


Finance Minister Bader Minshari al-Humaidhi, and trade and
commerce minister Falah al-Hajeri kept their posts.


Former energy minister Sheikh Ali Jarrah al-Sabah was retained as
oil minister after splitting the energy portfolio to the ministry
of oil and ministry of electricity and water, as was the case
several years ago.


The cabinet included six new faces while five former ministers
were dropped, including state minister for cabinet affairs,
Ismail al-Shatti.


The two women in the cabinet are Maasouma al-Mubarak who was
moved from communications to the health ministry, and Nuriya al-
Sebih who was given the education portfolio.


The cabinet also includes four Islamists. They are the ministers
of communications, Sharida al-Meosherji, minister of electricity
and water Mohammad al-Olaim, minister of Islamic affairs and
justice Abdullah al-Maatuq and Hajeri.


Two ministers from the minority Shiite community are also
included in the government. They are Maasouma al-Mubarak and new
entrant, minister of public works Mussa al-Sarraf.


The new cabinet will be sworn-in by the emir and then ministers
will take the oath in parliament to become ex-officio members
where they enjoy voting right like elected MPs.

