

Masayuki Omoto doesn't know why he got out of his house when he
did. But the 73 -year-old survived being buried under the rubble
-- and now tells himself life or death is all a matter of luck.


The retired construction worker's wooden home was at first partly
damaged by the powerful earthquake Sunday on Japan's western
coast. He got out and decided to start repairs.


"Seconds later, I saw my house completely collapse just metres
away from me. I can't find any words to describe it," a trembling
Omoto said of the aftershock that turned his home into a heap of
debris.


"It was literally an escape by the skin of my teeth," Omoto said,
his eyes turning red.


He quietly shook his head over and over. "I still don't know why
I decided to get out at that moment. Life and death is just a
matter of chance."


One person was killed and nearly 200 others injured on the Noto
peninsula in Sunday's 6.9-magnitude earthquake, which was
followed by a string of strong aftershocks.


More than 200 buildings were damaged and 25 were completely
destroyed in the city of Wajima, many of them wooden houses with
heavy tiled roofs, officials said.


Japan is used to earthquakes, enduring 20 percent of the world's
strong tremors and constructing buildings to withstand powerful
jolts.


But as residents here found out, when powerful tremors strike,
much is still left up to chance.


Shogoro Hashiura, whose firm produces wooden chips for paper
production, was thankful that the quake struck on the weekend,
when none of his 15 employees or family members were in harm's
way.


He was working alone at his office just next to the storage area,
whose roof slid off scattering wooden chips all over the yard.


"I'm scared as I wonder what would have happened if it were a
weekday," the 81 -year-old Hashiura said.


"I don't quite remember what really happened, because I just
stayed focused on sliding under the table," he said as he showed
how he hid himself following the quake.


"It was really shocking and horrible. I lost my storage but no
one was killed or injured. I'm still thankful for small mercies."


Japan constantly lives in fear of "The Big One" predicted to hit
a major urban area.


A 7.3-magnitude earthquake in the western city of Kobe in January
1995 killed 6,437 people, while 67 people were killed and
hundreds injured in 2004 in a 6.8-magnitude quake in the Niigata
region, northwest of Tokyo.


"I never dreamt such a huge earthquake would happen to us," said
Yasuei Muro, a 64-year-old owner of a hardware store, which was
partially damaged.


"I watched the scenes from the Kobe earthquake on TV and saw it
as someone else's trouble," he said.


"But after experiencing this one, I realise how scary an
earthquake is and that what you can do is limited. The survival
of my family and my employees owes a lot to luck."

