

Angola took a giant step toward the 2008 African Nations Cup in
Ghana by outclassing Eritrea 6-1 in a qualifier on Sunday.


Flavio Amado, who plays for five-time African Champions League
title  holders Al-Ahly of Egypt, led the rout with two goals at
the decaying   Citadela Stadium in Luanda.


But if the home of the Palancas Negros (Black Antelopes) is in
desperate need of renovations, there is little wrong with a
national team that reached the World Cup finals for the first
time last year.


After a narrow loss to former colonial rulers Portugal, Angola
held Mexico and Iran to narrowly miss a place in the knockout
phase and their Nations Cup form suggests much was learnt at the
quadrennial world showpiece.


Pedro 'Mantorras' Manuel, Ze Kalanga, Antonio Mendonca and
veteran Paulo Figueiredo were also on target for the home team,
who scored three goals in each half.


Eritrea, who launched their Group 6 campaign with a shock win in
Kenya before being held at home by Swaziland, trailed Angola 4-0
before Tenese Shimongwe reduced arrears.


Kenya celebrated their return to international football with a
2-0 victory over Swaziland courtesy of second-half goals from
McDonald Mariga and Ibrahim Shikanda in Nairobi.


Internal fueding among officials led to FIFA banishing the east
African country to the wilderness and their continued
participation in the six-round  qualifying competition was in
doubt until a few weeks ago.


Angola seem certain to finish first after collecting a maximum
nine points from three matches, well ahead of Eritrea (four
points), Kenya (three) and Swaziland (one).


Only the 12 group winners are assured of places at the biennial
tournament with the best three runners-up in the 10 four-team
pools and automatic qualifiers Ghana filling the other slots.


A nation unlikely to make it to west Africa next January are
Zimbabwe, who could only draw 1-1 with Morocco in Harare and
remain bottom of Group 12 with a solitary point from two outings.


Youssef Hadji headed the visitors into a sixth-minute lead they
clung to until the closing stages when South Africa-based Esrom
Nyandoro struck the equaliser off a long-range free kick.


Morocco top the three-team group with four points and Malawi have
three while Zimbabwe hopes of a third consecutive Nations Cup
appearance hang by   the thinnest of threads.


Lesotho won for the first time in Group 3, defeating fellow
minnows Niger 3-1 in a stormy Maseru clash with the match
officials abused by the visitors during a long stoppage after
Djiri Boukari was sent off.


Ivory Coast cruised to a 3-0 win over Madagascar in Antananarivo
through goals from Steve Gohouri, Aruna Dindane and Amara Diane
and are virtually assured of first place in Group 1 with Gabon
the only other competitors.


Congo suffered a Group 11 setback when held 0-0 by Zambia in
Brazzaville while Sudan stayed hot on the heels of Group 4
pacesetters Tunisia with a 2-1 victory in Mauritius with Faisal
Agab the two-goal hero.

