

Colonel David Sutherland, who heads US forces in an Iraqi
province rife with sectarian violence, on Sunday accused Sunni
extremists of playing into Iran's hands by boycotting Iraqi
forces.


"We are fighting Sunni extremists, Sunni rejectionists, Shia
rogue militia, Shia dominance wanting to establish dominance
here, in some cases Kurdish militia and we are fighting
corruption," he told AFP in Baquba, the capital of Diyala
province, at the opening of a new radio station.


Sutherland said an eventual US withdrawal was up to the people
and security forces of Iraq, but lashed out at Sunni extremists
for bolstering the power of Shiite foe Iran by fighting rather
than joining Iraqi government forces.


"The Sunni extremists, the Sunni militia, Sunni rejectionists
whether they realise it or not, they are playing into Iran's
hands because they are not joining the security forces or the
government.


"And when we leave here, Iran may try to establish a hegemony
that will cause friction between the Sunnis and their future.
They need to join the security forces, join the government," he
said.


Iraq's once-powerful Sunni minority lost dominance to the Shiite
majority after Saddam Hussein's ouster in 2003, with the current
government Shiite-led while the insurgency is Sunni-led.


Sutherland repeated frequent US accusations of Iranian
interference in Iraq, saying his forces had intercepted Iranian
weapons, including armour-piercing bombs that Americans say Iran
supplies to Lebanese Shiite militia Hezbollah.


"The governor (of Diyala) believes there is Iranian influence,
either through money or resources or intelligence being provided
to different rogue militia within Diyala," he said.


"I see weapons that we find in caches that have Iranian markings
on them reading 2006... We also found a very large EFP (armour-
piercing weapons) cache a couple weeks ago, and those we believe
came from Ian too.


Vowing that US forces would "continue to be aggressive to secure
the population" Sutherland said problems were created by
subsidised food, fuel and salary shortages -- issues which only
the Iraqi government could fix.


"Securing the population is not just us attacking the terrorist
or their safe havens... It's also the people feeling secure by
their government. And that's what the government of Iraq has to
do," he said.

