

Maria Sharapova rallied to avenge a Wimbledon defeat with a
three-set victory over Venus Williams on Sunday, but she had to
wait another day to see if she'll get a similar chance against
Serena Williams.


Top-seeded Sharapova beat Venus Williams 2-6, 6-2, 7-5 to reach
the fourth round of the 6.9 million-dollar WTA and ATP Masters
Series tournament here.


Sharapova, who lost to Venus Williams in their last meeting - in
the 2005 Wimbledon semi-finals - emerged with the victory in a
hard-fought match in which the windy conditions contributed to
the 50 unforced errors and 12 double faults by Williams and 35
unforced errors and 13 double faults by Sharapova.


After going up 2-0 in the opening set Sharapova surrendered the
next six games. She responded in kind in the second set to force
the decider, which ended when Williams fired long.


Sharapova was next due to face either Australian Open champion
Serena Williams or Czech Lucie Safarova.


But the scheduled night match between 13th-seeded Serena and
Safarova was postponed until Monday when rain that has plagued
the tournament struck again, leaving Sharapova to wait and see if
she'll get a chance to avenge her Australian Open finals rout.


Sharapova was joined in the fourth round by second-seeded Belgian
Justine Henin, No. 3 Svetlana Kuznetsova and No. 4 Kim Clijsters
of Belgium, while fifth-seeded Swiss Martina Hingis exited in the
third round for the second straight year.


Henin, who claimed the No. 1 world ranking from Sharapova this
week, was just two points from defeat but rallied to beat
Virginie Razzano of France 6-2, 2-6, 7-6 (7/5).


Henin came back from a 5-1 deficit in the third set and forced
the tiebreaker after losing the first two points of the 12th
game.


"I came back from nowhere," Henin said. "It's in those spots when
I play my best tennis. I proved it many times in the past. I love
to play under pressure, but it's good to win in two sets, too."


Kuznetsova, the defending champion, advanced with a 6-4, 6-2
victory over Jelena Kostanic, while Clijsters booked a fourth-
round date with China's Li Na by defeating Australian Samantha
Stosur 6-4, 6-2.


Li advanced with a 6-0, 6-1 romp over Slovenia's Katarina
Srebotnik.


Hingis, a two-time champion here, fell to Poland's Agnieszka
Radwanska 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.


"I'm getting tired of losing matches I'm supposed to win," said
the former world No. 1, who has reached only one semi-final in
eight tournaments this year. "I think I need to recharge myself."


In men's action second-seeded Rafael Nadal of Spain and No. 3
Andy Roddick of the United States advanced to the fourth round.


Nadal was handed a walkover after Belgium's Olivier Rochus
withdrew with a foot injury and Roddick defeated Gilles Simon of
France, 6-4, 6-4.


Last week, Nadal ended a nine-month title drought with a triumph
at Indian Wells. It was his first tournament victory since last
June, when he defended his title at Roland Garros.


Rochus suffered his injury in a second-round victory over Spain's
Guillermo Garcia-Lopez and was unable to recover in time for a
third-round meeting with the Spanish star.


"My heel is so painful there is no way I can go on the court.
There is no way," Rochus said.


Roddick has yet to lose a serve in his two matches here, but he
admitted that he has yet to play his best tennis.


"Well, I got a win, but it definitely wasn't a pretty win out
there," Roddick said. "With the wind it's a little tough to find
your rhythm. But I definitely have a lot that I can improve on
before the next match."


"I just felt like I was a little bit out of sorts and kind of
playing one point well, one point badly. So it's just a matter of
finding that consistency on every point."


Roddick next faces 13th-seeded David Ferrer, a 7-6 (7/0), 6-2
winner over Simone Bolelli.


Paul-Henri Mathieu of France upset fifth-seeded Fernando Gonzalez
of Spain, 6-3, 7-6 (8/6) and will face 12th-seeded Andy Murray of
Scotland in the fourth round.


Murray dispatched unseeded American Robert Kendrick, 6-3, 6-1.
Kendrick had taken 18th-seeded Lleyton Hewitt's place in the draw
after the Australian withdrew with a lower back injury.


Murray broke Kendrick's serve in the third game of the second set
and won the next four games to complete the win in just over an
hour.


"I served pretty consistently this time," Murray said. "I thought
the windy conditions affected me in my first match, but not as
much today."

