

Pakistan army patrols of the border with Afghanistan and refugee
camps are helping to block Taliban reinforcements moving into the
south, a NATO commander said Sunday.


A NATO and Afghan operation launched in the southern province of
Helmand nearly three weeks ago had not been met with any "major
mobilisation" of forces, Major General Ton van Loon told
reporters.


In that area, "We are seeing that there are limited amounts of
foreign fighters coming into the country and I think the
Pakistanis are really making a big difference," the Dutch general
told reporters.


There had been an "increase in patrolling at the border and
around refugee camps by the Pakistani army," he said.


Afghan and Western officials have stepped up pressure on Pakistan
in past months to do more to stop militants moving from bases on
Pakistani soil into Afghanistan to feed the Taliban-led
insurgency.


International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and Afghan troops
involved in the operation, called Achilles, had encountered
"hardcore Taliban extremists," he said.


But, "To date we have not seen signs of a major mobilisation of
enemy forces ...," the ISAF commander for southern Afghanistan
said.


The operation had resulted in limited casualties to the military
and "we have killed several Taliban extremists," Van Loon said,
refusing to detail casualties because this could give a "false
sense of progress."


Achilles, involving 5,500 Afghan and foreign troops, is focused
on the northern part of Helmand and against ideologically
inspired Taliban, foreign jihadists and drug lords.


Its aim is to secure the Kajaki hydropower dam so it can be
rehabilitated to supply power and irrigation.


Last year was the deadliest in the insurgency launched after the
extremists were toppled from government in 2001.


Afghanistan's foreign allies have boosted the number of troops
they have here to about 50,000 to help the government assert
itself over the militants, who are said to be in control of
several areas in the south.

