

In the markets of Mazar-i-Sharif and the much-turned ground of
the nearby ancient city of Balkh where Alexander the Great
married and Zoroaster lived, Afghans are eking out a living from
the rich treasures of the fabulous Bactrian Empire.


On a sheet laid out on a road in Mazar, the biggest city in
northern Afghanistan, are cheap jewellery and coins that merchant
Abdul Sammad says date back to the 13th century era of Genghis
Khan.


A lion carved in stone is "a unique Bactrian piece costing 200
dollars," he says, sitting cross-legged in front of his wares.


In his 50s with a solemn thin face, Sammad says he was 10 when he
began digging for hidden treasure in the earth of Balkh, 25
kilometres (15 miles) west of Mazar.


"I know it is banned but one has to earn a living," he says as a
dozen other merchants gather round him.


On the other side of the road, dimly lit shops offer pre-Islamic
objects and coins showing the face of Alexander -- who conquered
Bactria and the beautiful Roxanne around 330 BC -- and Demetrius,
the Bactrian king in 180 BC.


"I bought my pieces from the villagers. Then I brought them
here," says shopkeeper Ghawsuddin.


"Many Pakistanis buy them. The most beautiful go overseas, he
says. "Of course it is a pity to see our riches sold off, but
most Afghans are poor and illiterate and for them the treasures
mean little more than survival."


Remains of the Balkh of Alexander -- built well after Bactria was
established in 2,500 BC -- were first discovered in 2002 by
French archaeologists after long years of research interrupted by
Afghanistan's successive wars.


"About 70 percent of the site of Tepe Zargaran was plundered in
the 1990s and unfortunately the plunder continues in the area,"
said French archaeologist Philippe Marquis.


Close to Tepe Zargaran, watched by dishevelled guards hired by
the ministry of culture, is a field as large as a football pitch
and dotted with craters and mounds of soil interspersed with the
remains of clay vases.


In broad daylight, two men dig into the ground in the hope of
finding "something which will resell well," says one of them,
Mohibullah.


His coat torn open to reveal an emaciated chest, Mohibullah is at
25 the father of four children and is beginning to miss the lax
regulations of the previous Taliban government.


"There were always hundreds of us digging here. Today it is
banned. Three times they put me in prison. As soon as I left, I
came back here," he says.


The head of the provincial culture department, Saleh Mohammed
Khaliq, says the "main problem is that people in high places are
participating in this traffic.


"Two policemen in the ministry of culture were killed last summer
by the thieves. Two men were arrested but they were released soon
after boasting of their high-level protection. They threatened
that I would lose my job."


Problems of corruption are compounded by more pragmatic concerns,
he said, citing houses that were built on historic sites for
"important people" and the destruction and theft by deminers
employed to rid Afghanistan of its millions of unexploded mines.


He said he had little hope of ever seeing Mazar-i-Sharif's museum
reopened.


It was closed in the 1980s after many of the objets d'art in its
collection had been destroyed or stolen during the 1992-1996
civil war and subsequent 1996-2001 Taliban regime.


The destruction by the Taliban of the 2,000-year-old Buddhas at
Bamiyan and most of the treasures of the Kabul museum were just
the most notorious examples of the cultural desecration wrought
by the fanatical Islamists who ran the country until 2001, when
they were ousted in a US-led invasion.


"It is not only the objects that they are stealing, it is the
soul of a nation," said Khaliq.


He is smoothly contradicted, however, at the Mazar police
headquarters, where deputy police chief Janral Raouf Taj insists:
"There has not been any trafficking in a long time".


And the two men arrested last summer for murder were released
only after "an investigation proved their innocence," he says.

