

Ireland's progress to the World Cup Super Eights has surprised
many in the game, but not team manager Robert Torrens.


After beating 1992 champions Pakistan and tying with Zimbabwe,
Ireland have reached the World Cup second round on their debut
appearance and will be the only non-Test playing nation in the
next stage.


But Torrens said on Sunday that years of hard work, patience and
investment are at last paying off.


"We have spent a lot of money; we've put a lot of effort into
developing our youngsters and this year for the first time ever
we have swept the board at every age group level in the European
championships," he said.


ICC associate nations Scotland, Denmark, The Netherlands and
Italy are the European teams who play along with Ireland in the
Euro Championships at the Under-13, 15, 17, 19 and 23, as well as
the senior level.


"We have identified them as early as 12 and 13 and we are
bringing them through the system," Torrens told the Jamaica
Observer newspaper.


Ed Joyce, who helped Ireland qualify for the World Cup but is now
opening the batting for England in the Caribbean, is one of the
Irish youth system graduates.


Torrens insists that he is not disheartened by seeing Joyce jump
ship.


"We would treat that as an example for young cricketers in
Ireland to try and follow," said the team manager.


"To look at him to see that he has made a career out of playing
cricket is great and we would hope that he would be a role model
for younger people in Ireland to follow."


Torrens told the newspaper that the turning point for Irish
cricket came in 1993 when former England seamer Mike Hendrick was
named as national team coach.


"Mike Hendrick was the first to bring Ireland into a semi-
professional state. He showed us the way forward," said Torrens.


Former New Zeakand batsman Ken Rutherford and current coach,
South African Adrian Birrell, who gives way to former West Indies
batsman Phil Simmons after the World Cup, have followed.


Test players such as Pakistan's Shoaib Akhtar and Ridley Jacobs
have competed in local leagues in an attempt to raise standards.


Now the Irish hope that their World Cup, which continues on
Friday when they take on England in Guyana, can inspire a new
generation of youngsters to take up the sport.


"Cricket in Ireland is still a minority sport, but the
performance here would have raised the profile," said Torrens.


"It's on television in Ireland and we're getting reports from
newspapers and television companies that Ireland have taken us on
their backs. They have gone mad for the last week with the team's
performance here," he said.


Torrens wants to see Ireland play more one-day internationals to
continue the momentum.


"Obviously we have only recently become an ODI side and we want
to consolidate that first of all. We want to play more ODIs. Our
guys have very little experience," he said.

