

France's Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal was
attacked from all sides on Sunday for saying she wanted to
reclaim the French flag and anthem from far-right nationalists.


Four of Royal's recent rallies have wrapped up with loudspeakers
blasting out the national anthem, "La Marseillaise" -- more often
associated in French politics with Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-
immigration National Front party.


On Friday she told reporters during a trip to the French Riviera
-- long a bastion of the far-right -- that if elected, she would
"ensure that the French know the words to La Marseillaise, and
that every family owns a national flag" to "fly from their window
on national holidays."


She says she wants "to reconquer the symbols of the nation",
instead of "abandoning them to extremists".


Observers saw the new twist in Royal's campaign as a response to
a recent pledge by the right-wing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy to
set up a ministry of immigration and national identity, seen as a
ploy to appeal to the far-right.


But her campaign rivals rounded on her statements.


On the far-left, Olivier Besancenot, presidential candidate for
the Revolutionary Communist League said he was "shocked", accused
her of playing into the hand of the far-right.


"This is not about taboos, but we've got Nicolas Sarkozy chasing
after Le Pen. If the Left starts chasing after Nicolas Sarkozy,
I'll let you guess who will be the winner. Probably Jean-Marie Le
Pen."


The anti-capitalist activist Jose Bove, the Communist Party
candidate Marie- George Buffet and the Worker's Struggle
candidate Arlette Laguiller also accused her of a nationalist
outburst.


Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou -- in third place behind
Sarkozy and Royal in the polls -- called on both to talk of the
nation in "a balanced, not an obsessive way."


"The nation is not a problem. It has problems: unemployment,
education, environment, exclusion, economy."


Meanwhile the National Front's Le Pen said "a passport or ID card
have never made an identity, and a flag has never made a
patriot."


Sarkozy's ally, former prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, said
he was "worried" Royal had "mistaken herself for the nation with
this flag business". She also announced a new campaign slogan
over the weekend, "La France Presidente," a pun on the feminine
of the word president.


Speaking to reporters in the northern city of Lille on Sunday,
Royal sought to spell out her comments.


"National identity is first of all about a nation that gives
everyone the right to live that identity, asking people not where
they come from but how they want to live together," she said.


"It is about a nation that gives life to the values of the
Republic, that ensures that the Republic keeps its promise to
each child born on French soil."


On Saturday, organisers played the French anthem at a meeting
Royal attended in Villeurbanne, a rough suburb of the eastern
city of Lyon.


It was a potent symbol in a room packed with residents of the
suburbs, many of whom are the French-born children and
grandchildren of African immigrants and who often complain of
being treated like second-rate citizens.


Sarkozy openly admits that he wants to draw far-right voters back
to the mainstream, but insists his concept of "national identity"
is about the defence of core French values such as secularism and
male-female equality, not race or origin.


Members of Sarkozy's ruling Union for a Popular Movement held a
rally in the Paris suburbs on Saturday to explain his position.


With four weeks to go until the April 22 first round of the
election, Sarkozy currently leads the race, ahead of Royal and
the centrist Francois Bayrou. Le Pen is in fourth place, far
ahead of the eight remaining candidates.

