

How the action unfolded in the first round of the 2007 World Cup:


March 11


Sir Garfield Sobers opens the ninth World Cup at a colourful
ceremony in Trelawny.


March 12


Australia skipper Ricky Ponting hits back at Sunil Gavaskar after
the former India captain said the Aussies were unpopular winners.
Ponting says Gavaskar is 'high and mighty'.


March 13


West Indies beat Pakistan by 54 runs at Sabina Park in the
tournament opener. Gavaskar won't relent in his attacks saying he
wouldn't be surprised if an Aussie got 'whacked' in a bar.


March 14


Australia crush Scotland by 203 runs to get their title defence
off to a flying start with skipper Ricky Ponting hitting his 23rd
career one-day century. Kenya beat Canada by seven wickets.


March 15


Sri Lanka beat Bermuda by 243 runs, the second biggest winning
margin in World Cup history, but fellow debutants Ireland clinch
a thrilling last ball tie with Zimbabwe. Former Zimbabwe star
Andy Flower calls for sporting sanctions against the Mugabe
regime.


March 16


Herschelle Gibbs makes history by becoming the first player to
hit six sixes in an over in an international one-dayer as South
Africa pile up 353 in just 40 overs to beat the Dutch by 221
runs. New Zealand beat England by six wickets.


March 17


Sensational Saturday as Ireland beat Pakistan by three wickets to
send the 1992 champions out of the tournament. Bangladesh secure
only their second win over India with a five-wicket triumph.


March 18


Tournament rocked by death of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer who was
found unconscious on floor of his hotel room. Woolmer had told of
the stresses of the job in the light of his side's defeat to
Ireland. Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul- Haq quits one-day cricket
and gives up captaincy. On the field, England beat Canada but
Andrew Flintoff dropped and stripped of vice-captaincy. Australia
crush Netherlands by 229 runs to reach the Super Eights.


March 19


India beat Bermuda by 257 runs, the biggest winning margin in the
history of one-dayers, after making 413-5, the highest ever World
Cup total. West Indies become the second team through to next
round with six-wicket win against Zimbabwe.


March 20


Jamaican police say they are treating Woolmer death as suspicious
after autopsy proves inconclusive. On the field, New Zealand
reach the Super Eights with a win against Kenya while South
Africa also coast into the second round with a win over Scotland


March 21


Ireland make sure of a historic place in the Super Eights after
Pakistan beat Zimbabwe. Sri Lanka are virtually assured of their
spot in the second round with a comprehensive win against
Bangladesh. Overnight, rumours circulate that Woolmer may have
been strangled.


March 22


Police in Jamaica say Woolmer was strangled to death and a murder
hunt is under way. Despite the murder, the ICC says the
tournament will continue. New Zealand secure a third win with
victory over Kenya while Scotland end with the Group A wooden
spoon after losing to the Netherlands.


March 23


Pakistan team all provide DNA samples in the Woolmer
investigation as speculation increases that the death was linked
to match-fixing. India are on the verge of being knocked out
after losing to Sri Lanka, their second defeat in three matches.
West Indies cruise past Ireland by eight wickets.


March 24


Inzamam and assistant coach Mushtaq Ahmed questioned in the
Woolmer investigation, but both insist it is routine and they
leave for home later in the day with the rest of the team.
Australia beat South Africa by 83 runs while England make the
Super Eights with a comfortable win over Kenya.


March 25


Bangladesh beat Bermuda by seven wickets to reach the Super
Eights for the first time and condemn India to an early exit.

