

EU leaders and Irish rocker Bob Geldof Sunday urged harsher
sanctions against Sudan in a bid to halt the bloodshed in Darfur.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair, speaking on the sidelines of
the EU's 50th anniversary party here, called for a new United
Nations Security Council resolution against members of the
Khartoum regime after meeting with a refugee from the Darfur
civil war.


"The issue is, we need to get a new resolution to extend the
sanctions regime against key individuals," Blair said.


"The brutal action of the Sudanese government is completely
unacceptable."


He called for a no-fly zone over Darfur to prevent the Sudanese
government from attacking fleeing refugees from the air.


Blair termed the situation in the western Sudanese region where
the UN estimates 200,000 lives have been lost in four years as
"intolerable" and said it had been a major talking point between
EU leaders over the weekend.


By his side was a representative of London-based group the Darfur
Union, Ishag Mekki, whose elder sister, a mother of eight, was
killed in her home in Darfur.


Mekki issued an emotional plea to world leaders to help stop the
conflict at a press conference organised by Live Aid founder
Geldof.


"Every time genocide happens the leaders of the EU say 'never
again'. These are empty words because it is happening now," Mekki
said.


He said he believed there was no reason for the EU to hail its
achievements over the past half century until it helped to end
the conflict in Darfur.


"You cannot celebrate when hundreds of thousands of people are
being put to death."


German Chancellor Angela Merkel also called on her fellow
European leaders to back tougher sanctions against Sudan.


"I want to state frankly that we have to consider stronger
sanctions," she said.


Geldof urged the EU to impose a travel ban and an asset-freeze on
Sudanese officials by the end of the day, and to ratchet up the
sanctions as soon as possible.


"You should refuse to let them travel to Europe for their dental
and hair appointments, you should stop them buying our luxury
goods and freeze all assets of the Sudanese government.


"This can be done by 7:00 pm tonight," Geldof told a press
conference.


He said the steps should be "followed within weeks by tougher
sanctions, a no- fly zone over Darfur and the deployment of a UN
force to impose peace."


On Saturday, 10 leading European thinkers and writers, including
Nobel literature laureates Harold Pinter and Guenter Grass, urged
EU leaders in an open letter to interrupt the anniversary
celebrations and act to stop the bloodshed in Darfur.


Geldof said he penned the text, but it was reworked by Irish poet
Seamus Heaney and British playwright Tom Stoppard.


"I wrote it three days ago but I was severely edited. There was
Stoppard saying you cannot use the word 'thug'," he told AFP.


Geldof called the conflict a genocide and said it was shameful
that the European Union was not doing more to stop it as the bloc
was born in response to World War II and the Holocaust.


"It is a spurious idea that we have lots to celebrate, the sense
of betrayal is much greater. The EU arose out of genocide and we
have failed to honour that shared value."


The EU imposed an arms embargo on Khartoum in January 2004.


The conflict in Darfur began in 2003 when an ethnic minority rose
up against the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum, which then
enlisted militia to help crush the rebellion.


On Sunday, the only rebel group to have signed a peace deal with
Khartoum accused the state of violating a ceasefire and said it
was ready to resume fighting and expand it to the Sudanese
capital.


The United States has said it will seek a UN resolution to force
Khartoum to let a UN-led peacekeeping force into Darfur.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir earlier this month reneged on
an agreement to let 20,000 UN-led peacekeepers into the region.
He says the West wants to invade his country and plunder its
resources.

