

When Saqibul Hasan lofted Bermudian spinner Dwayne Leverock for a
winning four here on Sunday, Bangladesh had plenty of reasons to
smile.


With victory achieved in the semi-darkness of the Queen's Park
Oval, Bangladesh completed a seven-wicket win to qualify for the
World Cup second round for the first time since making their Cup
debut in England in 1999.


Such was the enormity of the achievement that India, the 1983
champions and one of the favourites this time round, were knocked
out as a consequence.


Considered the whipping boys of international cricket in their
initial years, Bangladesh had never gone past the first round as
they won two matches in England and none in the next edition in
South Africa in 2003.


It was also a big day for coach Dav Whatmore, who has transformed
Bangladesh into a highly competitive unit. It was a tribute to
his skill that his side exceeded expectations in the four-team
group.


Bangladesh turned the form-book upside down with a five-wicket
win over India in their opening match before defeating debutants
Bermuda in their last.


Whatmore has already done wonders with Sri Lanka, playing a
crucial role as coach to help Arjuna Ranatunga's team clinch the
1996 World Cup. But he said the Sri Lankan title-triumph was
something "different."


"It is very significant for us (to reach the Super Eights). We
had the potential to do well and we also needed a little bit of
luck to get results," said Whatmore.


"This game was the most difficult as we had to win it to qualify.
To play 20 overs in such conditions and chasing that score was
not easy. It was the most difficult situation to qualify."


The match was reduced to 21-overs-a-side due to rain before
Bangladesh successfully chased a target of 96 with 21 balls to
spare for their second win.


The victory also condemned India, the financial superpower of the
sport, to an early exit.


Only a Bermudian win could have helped India advance to the next
round after they suffered defeats against Sri Lanka and
Bangladesh.


Bangladesh were in a tough group, considering they had beaten
India and Sri Lanka just once each before the tournament.


They had enjoyed a couple of wins against big teams, but lacked
consistency.


They shocked world champions Australia in a triangular series
match in England a few years ago and then beat India and Sri
Lanka at home. But these were only an exception rather than a
rule.


Whatmore said confidence was the main difference between this
Bangladeshi side and the previous ones.


"There is more self-belief. The Bangladeshi side of two or three
years ago might not to be able to overhaul the target of 192
against India," he said, referring to his team's win against
Rahul Dravid's side while chasing the target.


"A lot of these boys are willing to work a lot harder out in the
middle in difficult periods. That's the main difference."


Bangladesh wasted no time in reminding their critics that they
had the team this time to slay giants, India being their first
victims.


India boasted a star-studded batting line-up in Sachin Tendulkar,
Rahul Dravid, Virender Sehwag and Sourav Ganguly, but were found
wanting against an inspired Bangladeshi attack.


The young Bangladeshi batsmen then completed the job as Tamim
Iqbal, Mushfiqur Rahim and Saqibul all hit solid half-centuries
to help their team pass the Indian total.


Fast bowler Mashrafe Mortaza and left-arm spinners Mohammad
Rafique and Abdur Razzak provided vital breakthroughs in their
team's victories against India and Bermuda.


Skipper Habibul Bashar wasn't too surprised, saying he knew his
team had the potential to do well.


"Our main target was to reach the Super Eights. It wasn't easy,
but we had the potential to beat either India or Sri Lanka. We
worked very hard and played good cricket here."

