

Ireland captain Trent Johnston said not even an eight-wicket
World Cup defeat by Sri Lanka could erase the memories of the
reception his team received after their win against Pakistan.


Johnston's largely amateur side bowed out of their first World
Cup tournament by being skittled out for 77 - the lowest score of
this tournament and the sixth lowest in the competition's history
- at the Grenada National Stadium here Wednesday in their final
Super Eights match.


But the 32-year-old Australia born all-rounder, who hit the
winning runs in a three-wicket defeat of Pakistan in Jamaica last
month in a stunning St Patrick's Day win that knocked the 1992
champions out of the World Cup, said he would never forget what
happened afterwards.


"When we hopped off the bus after the Pakistan game and went to
visit our family and friends in Ochos Rios, that was the
highlight for me, without a shadow of a doubt," Johnston said.


"The reception we got...I probably walked about two metres in 50
minutes just with people congratulating me, people wanting to
talk to you and sign things.


"That's never been seen before with Irish cricket and that was
definitely the moment for me of the whole tournament. Spending
time with our families, because they've sacrificed a lot for us
to be here, it was a great night."


It was a different story in Grenada where Ireland never recovered
after losing three wickets in four balls during pace bowler
Farveez Maharoof's opening over.


Maharoof finished with four for 25 while Muttiah Muralitharan
claimed four for 19 after the off-spinner was recalled following
his controversial omission from the seven-wicket defeat by world
champions Australia here Monday.


"We started quite well, 28 off seven overs. But then lost three
wickets in one over and we never really recovered from that,"
Johnston.


"Then you bring the best spin bowler in the world on, who we've
never seen before, and you've got a recipe for disaster and
that's probably what it was."


But he said Ireland were glad to have faced Murali, albeit in a
match that finished in under 38 overs.


"It's been a credit to us that every team has put their best team
out against us because they know that we can play cricket and are
potentially a massive banana skin.


"It's been fantastic. I certainly hope people don't remember us
from that last game because we've had one helluva of a
tournament.


"If someone had said to me that we would have been beaten by
eight wickets by Sri Lanka in the last game of the Super Eights
before I left to come here, I would have taken that."


Johnston said the sadness of Wednesday's defeat was that it
denied departing coach Adrian Birrell a proper send-off in his
final match in charge before returning to his native South Africa
after five years with the team.


"This tournament, and especially the Super Eights campaign, was
something we wanted to dedicate to him and what he has done for
us and for Irish cricket," said Johnston.


Phil Simmons is set to replace Birrell, but Johnston said he
wasn't sure if he would be playing under the former West Indies
batsman.


"I don't know if he wants me to be a part of it or if he's going
to get rid of the dead wood and get the young boys in. I don't
really know if I'm going to go on, it might be my last game, I'll
talk to my family."

