

US officials expressed disappointment that an Arab working group
formed Wednesday to initiate contacts with Israel on a plan to
normalize relations included only those two Arab nations which
already have diplomatic ties with the Jewish state.


"Certainly it would have been better to see a larger group," a
senior State Department official said after the Arab League
announced in Cairo that only Jordan and Egypt would take part in
the Israel contact group.


The US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
Washington had notably approached some governments in the Gulf
and North Africa which have limited ties with Israel to join the
group, but without success.


Those countries include Qatar and Mauritania.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack called the Arab League
decision to form the working group "a start" and said it was up
to the parties themselves to determine the pace of efforts to
build a dialogue.


"We have encouraged as wide and thorough a participation as we
could, among the Arab states, in these working groups," he said.


"It is going to have to expand at a pace that is comfortable for
both sides," he said.


The decision to leave the work to Egypt and Jordan was taken
during a meeting of 13 Arab foreign ministers in Cairo and was
announced by Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal.


The two were tasked with contacting Israel about a five-year-old
Saudi-inspired peace initiative proposing across-the-board Arab
normalization of ties with Israel in exchange for the Jewish
state giving up lands occupied since 1967, permitting the
creation of a Palestinian state and accepting the return of
Palestinian refugees.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has promoted the revival
of the plan, which was endorsed by an Arab summit last month, to
maintain some momentum in Israeli-Arab peace efforts at a time
when Israeli-Palestinian negotiations are in trouble.


Israel rejected the Arab peace plan out of hand when it was first
adopted in 2002, but in recent months has voiced new interest in
it as a starting point for talks.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Wednesday that an Arab
League delegation could soon visit to discuss the blueprint.


But Arab League chief Amr Mussa said Arab states other than Egypt
and Jordan would only join the talks if Israel first halted
Jewish settlement expansion in the occupied West Bank and eased
restrictions on the Palestinian areas.

