

Iran has started feeding uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear
plant where it has installed over 1,300 centrifuges, the UN
atomic watchdog said Wednesday, showing increasing defiance of UN
resolutions.


Iran has assembled eight cascades of 164 centrifuges each -- a
total of 1,312 of the machines which turn uranium gas into
enriched uranium for use as either nuclear reactor fuel or to be
the explosive core of atom bombs -- at a heavily- bunkered
underground facility in Natanz.


"Some UF6 (uranium hexafluoride gas) is being fed into those
cascades," International Atomic Energy Agency head of safeguards
Ollie Heinonen said in a letter sent Wednesday to Iran's
ambassador to the IAEA, Ali Asghar Soltanieh.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Iran for failing to
halt uranium enrichment.


But Iran has said it wants to press ahead with large-scale
enrichment at Natanz, far beyond what were previously only
research levels.


Iran wants to put in first an industrial level of 3,000
centrifuges, and then eventually 54,000 of the machines.


A close observer of the IAEA said "enrichment has not really
started. The centrifuges are running at low pressure," a first
step to getting them up to speed.


In his letter, which was obtained by AFP, Heinonen was
acknowledging the IAEA's receipt of the information about Natanz
from Iran, given during an inspection April 15-16.


He also called on Tehran not to cut off inspections to a heavy-
water reactor being built in Arak and which could produce
plutonium, which like enriched uranium is potential nuclear bomb
material.


Iran has reduced cooperation since the Security Council last
month imposed a second round of sanctions on Iran, and says it
will only provide notification about sites like Arak six months
before nuclear material is introduced.


Arak is scheduled to go online in 2009.


Heinonen said Iran can not limit cooperation unilaterally.


Meanwhile, the IAEA has backed off on its insistence of
installing surveillance cameras in Natanz.


The IAEA had agreed to "a combination of unannounced inspections
and containment and surveillance measures," Heinonen said in his
letter.


Diplomats told AFP that the IAEA felt it still had adequate
access, even without the surveillance cameras.


Putting in the cameras was a key demand but a deal struck with
Iran gives IAEA inspectors the right to make unannounced on-site
inspections at Natanz, the diplomats said.


"For the moment, this is alright," said one diplomat, who said
IAEA inspectors will be allowed to maintain a more permanent
presence in Iran while up to now they have only gone in for
specific visits. He did not elaborate.


At stake is monitoring an Iranian nuclear programme which the
United States claims hides the secret development of atomic
weapons.


"Iranian nuclear official Mohammad Saeedi (deputy head of Iran's
atomic energy organization) met with Ollie Heinonen in Vienna in
early April and they agreed that cameras would not be put into
the underground hall in Natanz," the second diplomat said.


The diplomat said the agreement was to be valid for "a few
months."


Heinonen had in March sent the Iranians a letter giving them
until the end of that month to surveillance cameras at Natanz,
with failure to do this possibly leading to further UN action
against Iran.


Iran insists its nuclear programme is a peaceful effort to
generate electricity.


IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei had said February 22 that cameras
would be needed in Natanz if Iran were running more than 500
centrifuges.


But a diplomat said the red-line number has changed. "When 3,000
centrifuges are running then unannounced visits plus cameras
would be required," the diplomat said.


Such a number of centrifuges could make in less than a year
enough enriched uranium for an atomic bomb.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had announced last week
that the Islamic republic's controversial uranium enrichment work
had reached an "industrial scale," a stage that requires at least
3,000 centrifuges, but did not say how many centrifuges were
working.


Russia, which is building Iran's first nuclear power plant, as
well as other nations had cast doubt on whether Iran had reached
such an industrial stage.

