

Shaun Wright-Phillips ensured Chelsea kept up their relentless
pursuit of Premiership leaders Manchester United as his double
strike inspired a 4-1 win at West Ham on Wednesday.


Wright-Phillips produced two fine goals either side of Carlos
Tevez's equaliser before Salomon Kalou and Didier Drogba scored
in the second half to seal a victory that closed the gap on
United to three points.


Jose Mourinho's side are determined not to relinquish their title
without a fight and this was the perfect response to United's win
over Sheffield United 24 hours earlier.


Chelsea have no margin for error as they try to keep pace with
Sir Alex Ferguson's men, but they have reeled off a 20-match
unbeaten run that includes nine successive league victories.


The London club's bid to land an unprecedented quadruple has
presented a gruelling schedule that would have reduced most teams
to complete exhaustion, but Mourinho has instilled his players
with an unbreakable will to win.


Any manager coming this close to lifting four trophies would
normally be enough to guaranteed a job for life, but remarkably
Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich seems intent on replacing Mourinho
at the end of the season, with Jurgen Klinsmann his latest
target.


West Ham would be happy just to have the chance to play Chelsea
next season but they look doomed to be relegated. They remain
five points from safety and were a shattered team well before
full-time.


Alan Curbishley's side started with a ferocious tempo designed to
test the visitors for any signs of weariness.


But Chelsea had the first chance when Kalou wriggled clear to
force a block from Robert Green. The danger wasn't completely
over though and the West Ham keeper had to scramble to his feet
to deny Drogba.


While Mourinho's team are rarely easy on the eye, their tenacity
means they are always capable of snatching a goal out of nothing.
So it was no surprise when Wright-Phillips gave them the lead in
the 31st minute.


Wright-Phillips looked to have few options when he took
possession on the edge of the area, but he brilliantly wrong-
footed Jonathan Spector before driving a low left-foot shot past
Green.


Tevez had been criticised by Curbishley after his lacklustre
display at Sheffield United, but the Argentina striker produced a
stunning strike to put his side level after 35 minutes.


Picking up possession wide on the left wing, Tevez cut inside and
worked a yard of space before curling a 25-yard shot into the far
corner of Petr Cech's goal.


It was the first goal Chelsea had conceded in nine league matches
and Upton Park went wild but, within a minute, the home fans were
silenced by another fine strike.


Wayne Bridge whipped in a cross from the left and Wright-Phillips
got across Lucas Neill to volley home from close range.


West Ham could have been forgiven if they felt aggrieved by that
blow but they responded well and Zamora should have equalised two
minutes after half-time.


John Terry's weak attempted interception presented Zamora with a
glorious chance, but, from no more than five yards, the striker
ballooned his shot straight at Cech.


The Hammers were punished for that miss in the 52nd minute. Frank
Lampard's free-kick was met by Drogba and Green could only block
his shot to Kalou, who tapped in on the goalline.


West Ham were unable to raise themselves again and Drogba added a
fourth in the 62nd minute. Lampard lifted a pass to the Ivory
Coast striker and he tricked Lucas Neill with a neat flick before
easily beating Green from 12 yards.


If they hadn't realised before, United must surely now know that
Chelsea will take the title race right down to the wire.

