

Nigeria's opposition parties threatened Wednesday to boycott
presidential elections this weekend in Africa's largest democracy
as an army offensive in the north left 25 Islamic militants dead.


Eighteen opposition parties called for the disbanding of the
national election commission and demanded that Saturday's
presidential ballot be postponed until "transparency and
fairness" could be ensured.


The European Union voiced similar concerns.


"Following the elections of 14 April in Nigeria's 36 federal
states, there are still doubts and uncertainties concerning the
state of preparations for the federal elections on 21 April," the
German EU presidency said in a statement.


"The EU presidency calls upon the authorities responsible for
organizing these elections, as well as all participating parties,
to help ensure that the elections are peaceful, fair and
transparent," it said.


The government of outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is
stepping down after serving two terms, immediately rejected the
demand for a postponement.


Information Minister Frank Nweke told AFP: "At this moment, I
believe there is absolutely no basis for anyone to begin to call
for the postponement of elections. From the reports I received...
I believe (last weekend's provincial) elections went reasonably
well."


The opposition parties also called for the annulment of last
Saturday's regional polls, which were slammed as fraud-marred by
international observers and triggered violence that left at least
20 dead.


If these conditions are not fulfilled, the parties "shall
consider not participating in the (presidential) election," they
said in a statement late Tuesday.


Nigerian troops on Wednesday shot dead 25 heavily armed members
of an Islamist group that had attacked a police station the
previous day in the northern Muslim-majority city of Kano,
killing 12 policemen and a civilian.


"I understand that our troops killed at least 25 members of the
criminal group terrorising Kano," said army spokesman Colonel Ayo
Olaniyan.


An AFP correspondent saw several hundred residents fleeing the
fighting.


The trouble was not confined to the north.


Obasanjo on Wednesday extended extended until May 29 a six-month
state of emergency earlier imposed in the southwestern state of
Ekiti, saying the situation there "could snowball into a complete
state of anarchy and lawlessness that could spread to
neighbouring states."


His decision follows widespread violence in Ekiti and across
Nigeria following last weekend's local elections.


"The time to save Ekiti State and, indeed, our nation is now,"
Obasanjo said.


Tensions have been mounting ahead of Saturday's presidential
vote, which is expected to usher in the first civilian-to
civilian government handover in Nigeria since the oil-rich west
African nation gained independence from Britain in 1960.


The main challengers to the ruling party candidate, Umaru
Yar'Adua, are Vice President Atiku Abubakar and General Muhamadu
Buhari, a former military ruler.


The election commission had excluded Abubakar, President
Obasanjo's estranged deputy, from the initial list of approved
candidates following corruption allegations.


But it was forced to reverse its decision after the Supreme Court
said it  had overstretched its powers.


The move was a setback for outgoing Obasanjo, who has been trying
to ensure an easy ride for Yar'Adua.


The regional elections last weekend were criticised as fraudulent
by the European Union, the United States and rights watchdogs
such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.

