

A sharp decline in breast cancer rates in the United States in
2003 could be linked to a reduction in the use of hormone
replacement therapy, according to research published Wednesday.


The research, based on data from the National Cancer Institute,
shows that the breast cancer incidence rates in women in the
United States fell 6.7 percent in 2003 from the previous year and
have since stabilized.


The drop corresponds with a rapid decline in prescriptions for
hormone replacement therapy (HRT) at the time following headline-
grabbing reports that post-menopausal women who were using HRT
that included both estrogen and progestin showed increased risks
of breast cancer, heart disease and stroke.


The number of prescriptions written for the two most commonly
prescribed forms of HRT in the United States plunged from 61
million in 2001 to 21 million in 2004, the study's authors
reported in the April 19 issue of the New England Journal of
Medicine.


According to the research team led by Donald Berry of the
University of Texas, the decline in breast cancer incidence began
in mid-2002 and leveled off after 2003.


The researchers, comparing breast cancer rates from 2001 and
2004, found a decrease in annual incidence of 8.6 percent.


The decrease only occurred in women over 50 and were more
pronounced in women with cancerous tumors that were dependent on
estrogen to grow and multiply, they said.


Of other risk factors the researchers considered -- including
rates of mammography screening and changes in diet -- HRT was the
only risk factor that changed markedly from 2002 to 2003 "and
provides a possible explanation for this trend," the National
Cancer Institute said in a statement.


"The speed at which breast cancer rates declined after the
Women's Health Iniatiative announcements may indicate that
extremely small ER-positive breast cancers may have stopped
progressing, or even regressed after HRT was stopped," the
institute, a part of the National Institutes of Health, said.


The head of the institute, John Niederhuber, recalled that breast
cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer among women in the
United States but all its causes remain unknown.


"Breast cancer rates had been increasing for two decades up to
2002. Finding the simple ways, such as limiting HRT use to
decrease breast cancer risk, is a step forward," Niederhuber said
in the statement.

