

More than 600 business executives and experts began meeting in
Singapore on Thursday to discuss how the corporate world can help
tackle the threat of climate change.


The two-day Global Business Summit for the Environment is the
first major international conference focusing on business and the
environment in Asia, according to the UN Environment Programme
(UNEP).


UNEP organised the event with the United Nations Global Compact,
an initiative that brings companies together with UN and other
agencies to support environmental and social principles.


The meeting comes two days after the UN Security Council held a
groundbreaking debate on the security implications of climate
change.


Delegates in Singapore plan to examine how the private sector,
governments and non-government organisations (NGOs) can cooperate
to ensure development that balances economic, social and
environmental factors, organisers said.


"The systematic damage and destruction of the world's forests,
freshwaters, fisheries and other economically important
ecosystems are failures of policy and failures of markets to
capture the true value of these nature-based assets," UNEP
executive director Achim Steiner said ahead of the meeting.


"Some companies now realise that future profits, if not future
viability as businesses... will be based on ensuring the
sustainability of these finite natural resources," Steiner said.


A key UN report released this month warned that billions would
face a higher risk of water scarcity and millions more would
likely go hungry as damage to the Earth's weather systems from
greenhouse gases changed rainfall patterns, powered up storms and
boosted the risk of drought, flooding and water stress.


More than 1.2 billion people, or about one-fifth of the world's
population, lack access to drinking water, the organisers said,
warning that without any action this could rise to 2.3 billion
people by 2023.


Among other subjects for discussion are "green investment and
financing", sustainable tourism and environmentally-sound
building and construction.


A special session on Friday will be devoted to discussing
solutions to the forest-fire haze that blankets parts of
Southeast Asia each year.


Last year a report commissioned by the British government warned
that climate change could bring economic disaster on the scale of
the world wars and the 1930s Great Depression unless urgent
action was taken.


Among the organisations to be represented at the Singapore
meeting are the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), World Resources
Institute and the Carbon Disclosure Fund.


Scheduled speakers include Kirsi Sormunen, Nokia's vice president
of environmental affairs, Diana Bell, a senior vice president at
Hewlett-Packard, Greenpeace International director Steve Sawyer
and actress and environmental activist Daryl Hannah.

