

Steven Gerrard scored both goals in front of England manager
Steve McClaren as Liverpool returned to the Premiership's top
three with a 2-0 win over Middlesbrough at Anfield on Wednesday.


The Liverpool captain netted his 10th and 11th of the season to
rescue the Champions League semi-finalists following a lacklustre
performance.


Liverpool were nothing like their vintage best as they made heavy
weather of seeing off a Middlesbrough side which threatened to
leave Merseyside with a point before Gerrard's scored twice in
six second-half minutes.


McClaren has had little to smile about during England's faltering
Euro 2008 qualifying campaign yet the former Middlesbrough
manager will have been delighted as Gerrard turned in a man-of-
the-match performance.


The result was enough to lift Rafa Benitez's side back above
Arsenal, who beat Manchester City 3-1 24 hours earlier, into
third spot. Victory over struggling Wigan Athletic on Saturday at
Anfield will guarantee Liverpool a place in next season's final
qualifying round for the Champions League.


Anfield has proved something of a graveyard for Middlesbrough in
recent years. They have not won on their previous 18 league
visits, a run stretching 31 years yet the visitors spurned a
glorious chance to take the lead in a tedious first half


An uncharacteristic error by England defender Jamie Carragher
gifted Fabio Rochemback a super chance in the 40th minute, but
the Brazilian midfielder, who has scored in each of his last two
games, let the Champions League semi- finalists off the hook when
he failed to find the target


This was Liverpool's 52nd game of the season and it showed as
they struggled to carve out chances against a Middlesbrough side
which had lost three of their previous four Premiership outings.


Apart from a tame long-range effort by Argentinian Javier
Mascherano, Middlesbrough keeper Mark Schwarzer was not tested in
a frustrating opening 45 minutes.


And on a rare occasions Liverpool did manage to open up the Boro
defence, their finishing left a lot to be desired with Momo
Sissoko the chief culprit.


The first of Sissoko's two glaring misses came after a rare
moment of quality. Jermaine Pennant skipped past a couple of
challenges before squaring the ball into the path of the former
Auxerre player who side-footed wide from close range.


Three minutes before half time the same player, who has yet to
score since joining from Valencia in the summer of 2005, was
guilty of squandering another opportunity as he mis-fired badly
following more good work by Pennant.


Liverpool upped the tempo after the interval, Mascherano hitting
the bar from a 50th minute header following a corner by former
Middlesbrough player Boudewijn Zenden before Zenden powered a
great chance over the bar.


The night looked set to end in frustration for Liverpool before
Gerrard intervened in the 58th minute with an unstoppable 25-yard
effort which gave Schwarzer no chance.


Middlesbrough faded badly and Gerrard wrapped up the points from
the penalty spot after referee Graham Poll had adjudged Andrew
Davies to have brought down Peter Crouch in the 64th minute.

