

French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, standing in his fifth
and probably final presidential election, is a former paratrooper
who sees immigration as the source of France's ills.


The 78-year-old National Front leader became a force to be
reckoned with in French politics when he qualified for the runoff
vote in the 2002 election against Jacques Chirac, beating
Socialist Lionel Jospin.


A former Foreign Legionnaire who served as an intelligence
officer in Algeria and as a paratrooper in Indochina, Le Pen has
been the champion of the far right for 35 years, calling for an
end to immigration and a halt to European integration.


In this campaign he has sought to soften his image as a xenophobe
by featuring a woman of African origin on his posters, meeting
with black-rapper-from-the- suburbs Rost and visiting a Chinese
World War I cemetery.


A gifted orator, Le Pen rails against the establishment parties
of the left and right, accusing them of leading the country to
the brink of disaster.


But his signature issue is immigration.


His election platform calls for cutting off social benefits to
foreigners and deporting illegal immigrants, a stance that he has
defended for decades.


Last weekend he repeated his insinuation that the frontrunning
presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy -- a quarter-Jewish son of
a Hungarian immigrant -- was not sufficiently French to become
president.


Born in the port village of La Trinite sur Mer in the
northwestern Britanny region, Le Pen is the son of a seamstress
and a fisherman. As a teenager, he became a ward of the state
when he was orphaned after his father died when his boat hit a
mine.


At age 27, he was first elected to parliament and went on to form
the National Front 16 years later in 1972.  He ran for the
presidency for the first time two years later.


He has been accused of promoting xenophobia and anti-Semitism
with his shock statements.


In 1987, he described Nazi gas chambers as a "detail" of history
and about the same time referred to AIDS as "a kind of leprosy."


In February, he dismissed the September 11, 2001 attacks on the
United States as an "incident," saying the death toll of 3,000
was equal to the number of people killed in Iraq in a month.


Le Pen however maintains that his views, once dismissed as
extremist, are now part of mainstream politics.


He claims that Sarkozy, who has floated the idea of a ministry
for immigration and national identity and has criticised Muslims
in France who "slaughter sheep in the bathtub," is copying his
ideas.


Le Pen was treated for prostate cancer in 2002 and underwent hip
surgery in February 2005. While he has said he has no plans to
retire, there has been speculation that his failing health may
soon push him out of political life.


Opinion polls have consistently been putting Le Pen in fourth
place behind Sarkozy, the Socialist Party's Segolene Royal, and
the centrist Francois Bayrou.


But after the 2002 shock in which he broke through to the second
round, few are willing to write him out of the picture --
especially as French polls are notorious for underestimating his
support.

