

A disturbed loner was looking for vindication and eternal glory
when he mailed a multimedia manifesto to NBC news before killing
more than 30 people at Virginia Tech University, experts said.


The rambling, angry rants Cho Seung-Hui made on a series of
videos were often hard to hear, but they gave a chilling glimpse
into the disturbed psyche of a man riddled with narcissism, self-
aggrandizement and nihilism.


"This man was delusional, quite paranoid. I don't know if he was
hearing voices but I wouldn't be surprised," said Steve Hinshaw,
chair of the psychology department at the University of
California Berkeley.


While it is impossible to accurately diagnose Cho from the brief
set of video clips, Hinshaw said his actions and words showed Cho
could have been suffering from a severe case of grandiosity and
possibly either bipolar depression or schizophrenia.


"He made a statement that he won't be put down and this must be
shown in a self- destructive but self-promoting blaze of glory,"
Hinshaw said in a telephone interview.


"It's chilling to think in these ways, but sometimes mental
illness can take hold of a person such that any empathy for
others takes second place to a compulsive need to let the world
know how much one has suffered."


Cho raged against hedonism and "rich kids" in his carefully
prepared package of 27 video files, an 1,800-word written
manifesto and 43 photographs. But the bulk of his anger was
directed at an unidentified "you" whom he blamed for forcing his
hand.


"You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided
today," Cho said in one of the videos.


"But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner
and gave me only one option," he said.


"I didn't have to do this. I could have left. I could have fled.
But no, I will no longer run. It's not for me. For my children,
for my brothers and sisters that you (expletive). I did it for
them," Cho said in one video.


This final statement seemed to be an attempt at vindication to
show that Cho's life wasn't worthless so long as people could see
what he suffered, Hinshaw explained.


"We find this sometimes in serious mental illnesses where it's
nihilism and narcissism: my life isn't really worth much but I
will go to all ends to let people know how much I've suffered in
a very self-promoting way," Hinshaw said.


This form of mental illness is extremely rare and most people
with mental illnesses are not violent, he added.


The release of the hate-filled manifesto received by NBC News
Wednesday capped a day of dramatic developments during which
police revealed the Virginia Tech student had been briefly
institutionalized and had been stalking female students.


"The unfortunate thing is, he was seeking publicity and he got
it," said Mardi Horowitz, a professor of psychiatry at the
University of California San Francisco.


"There's a danger of all kinds of copy-cat people looking for
media glory."


Horowitz acknowledged that the media has a responsibility to
report the full story, but said it's important that the story is
told in such a way that other disturbed individuals do not feel
like this is a good way to get attention.


The repetition of shared social values -- such as the idea that
violence is a bad way to resolve problems -- can get through to
even "highly disturbed, irrational individuals" and perhaps
prevent violent responses.


"The important thing is not letting these vile acts contribute to
the cycle of revenge," Horowitz told AFP. "That's the disease
we're trying to cure."


NBC acknowledged that the decision to air the video and photos
presented an ethical dilemma and warned viewers that it was
disturbing material.


Anchor Brian Williams acknowledged that "we know we are, in
effect, airing the words of a murderer here tonight."


Former FBI profiler Clint Van Zandt, who is now an NBC analyst,
said he disagreed with the network's decision to broadcast Cho's
words.


"This is what this guy wants," Van Zandt said. "He wants to be
able to reach his hand out of the grave and grab us by the throat
and make us listen to him one more time.


"I'm going to be part of it, but there's part of me that still
doesn't like it that we're going to live this guy's fantasy out
for him, even though he's been dead for two days."

