

A landmark nuclear energy deal between the United States and
India is in jeopardy because New Delhi wants key clauses
rewritten, a senior US official told the Financial Times daily
Thursday.


US State Department officials say India's tough stance is
threatening to unravel the agreement, which gives the South Asian
state unprecedented access to nuclear fuel without having to sign
a non-proliferation treaty.


The business daily, citing the officials, said New Delhi is
insisting President George W. Bush's administration rewrite key
elements of the law approved by Congress last year.


"We are disappointed with the pace and seriousness of the civil
nuclear negotiations with India," Nicholas Burns, the US under
secretary of state, told the newspaper.


"It is time to accelerate our efforts to achieve a final deal."


According to people close to the talks, Indian negotiators are
contesting a clause which states that the United States would
withdraw civil nuclear fuel supplies and equipment if India
breached its unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing, the FT
said.


The India-US civilian nuclear energy deal is the centrepiece of
India's new relationship with Washington after decades of Cold
War tensions and is part of the energy import-dependent nation's
bid to increase its fuel sources to sustain its booming economy.


But, according to the report, India is insisting it be given the
explicit right to reprocess nuclear fuel, in contradiction of the
US law.


Officials from India's Department of Atomic Energy insist that
the country, which is termed "a responsible state with advanced
nuclear technology" under the July 2006 deal, must retain the
right to test nuclear weapons.


The report said officials in Washington are surprised at India's
stance.


"That the US government would go to such lengths to help India
out and that India is now in the position of aggrieved party in
the talks is extraordinary," Michael Krepon, a public policy
expert in Washington, told the newspaper.


"If, as a result, this deal stalls, the next US administration
and the one after that will be very reluctant to extend such help
to India."

