

Mourners paid their final respects Thursday to the slain mayor of
Nagasaki as his son-in-law pledged to stand for election in his
stead to continue his legacy.


Mayor Iccho Ito's coffin was borne in a hearse through the
streets and past the city hall of Nagasaki, in southern Japan,
where he had been widely tipped to win re-election in a weekend
poll.


Elsewhere police tried to piece together the motive of the
gangster now in custody for the crime, a rare shooting in one of
the world's safest nations.


The son-in-law, Makoto Yokoo, a Tokyo-based journalist who has
never held elected office, joined the family in a private wake
where his wife held up a picture of Ito and the mayor's widow
sobbed inconsolably.


"He reaped and sowed the land and the flowers bloomed," Yokoo
said. "He was about to finish his work and then this happened.


"I am so sad and disappointed."


A black hearse carried the mayor's body in a simple procession
through the streets on its way to cremation.


Outside city hall, municipal workers -- ranging from employees in
suits to janitors -- stood at attention, many dressed in black
and some holding prayer beads.


"He was like a friend. He was the type of person who would come
to share snacks with you when you were working in the back
office," said Nanae Shimayama, 34, an events planner who had
collaborated with Ito.


Ito, 61, was an outspoken pacifist born just weeks after a US
nuclear bomb devastated his home city.


Police say gangster Tetsuya Shiroo fired twice at Ito outside his
campaign office near the central train station Tuesday evening.


Told that the mayor had died of his wounds, Shiroo responded
simply, "Yeah, I thought he'd die," according to a police
officer.


"He is responding to questions in the investigation calmly and
does not come off as disturbed," said Hideaki Hasegawa, deputy
chief of the city police.


Shiroo belonged to a local group affiliated with the Yamaguchi-
gumi, Japan's largest criminal syndicate with some 40,000 members
nationwide and interests in underworld businesses, police said.


After the shooting the head of the local group, the Suishinkai,
told police that the group was disbanding, law enforcement
officials said.


Police declined to speculate on the announcement, but Hasegawa
said Shiroo had not been informed that the group was disbanding.


Shiroo allegedly had grievances with the city authorities after
his vehicle was damaged at a construction site four years ago and
had obsessively demanded compensation.


"We will further investigate his motive, including the traffic
accident, the case that the suspect had complained about to the
city," Hasegawa said.


Some news reports said Shiroo had disputes over bidding for
public works.


The killing has thrown a big question mark over Sunday's local
election, in which Ito, the mayor since 1995, was seen as a shoo-
in for re-election.


Yokoo, a 40-year-old who covered the prime minister's office for
a regional newspaper, acknowledged he was unfamiliar with local
issues.


He is up against a communist candidate and two other
independents.


"I believe the people of Nagasaki will understand the sincere
sentiment that a son feels for his father," Yokoo's wife Yuko,
who is Ito's eldest daughter, told reporters.


But some voters said they had their doubts.


"I have full sympathy for his desire to carry on the wishes of
his father. But as he said he has no policy plans. It just seems
too shallow," said Hiromi Sakimura, 43, a businesswoman.


"But I'm also hesitant to vote for the other candidates. I might
as well cast a blank ballot, but in reality I have to think hard
about what to do."

