

Mark Buehrle pitched the 16th no-hitter in Chicago White Sox
history on Wednesday, as the White Sox defeated the Texas Rangers
6-0.


The no-hitter was the first for the White Sox since lefthander
Wilson Alvarez accomplished the feat against the Baltimore
Orioles on August 11, 1991. It also was the the first by a White
Sox pitcher in Chicago since Joel Horlen's on September 10, 1967
against Detroit.


In the ninth inning, Buehrle struck out Matt Kata and Nelson Cruz
before getting Gerald Laird on a groundout to third base, setting
off a jubilant celebration in the middle of the diamond.


"I probably was more nervous coming out of the eighth (inning)
and going back to the ninth with the crowd going crazy," Buehrle
said. "I could feel my knees shaking."


The only Texas baserunner was Sammy Sosa, who drew a walk in the
fifth inning, but Buehrle promptly picked him off. The lefthander
finished with eight strikeouts, including a called third strike
on Kata to start the ninth.


He threw 66 of his 105 pitches for strikes.


"He was in command," Sosa said.


Buehrle posted the first major leaguer no-hitter since Florida's
Anibal Sanchez beat Arizona 2-0 on September 6, 2006.


The last American League no-hitter was by Boston's Derek Lowe on
April 27, 2002, against Tampa Bay.


Buehrle struggled in the second half of last season. He made the
All-Star game, but was 3-7 in the second half with a 6.44 ERA to
finish  12-13 - his first losing season in seven years.


He was removed in the second inning of his first start in 2007
after being struck with a line drive and yielded three runs and
four hits over seven innings April 11 at Oakland.


"His stuff was the best I've seen in two years," catcher A.J.
Pierzynski said.


On Wednesday, Buehrle got some defensive support from third
baseman Joe Crede, who made a spectacular diving stop on Jerry
Hairston's hard grounder in the top of the second inning.


Crede got to his feet and threw out Hairston, who dove head-first
into first base and was ejected minutes later for arguing the
close play.


"I thought it was going to be a foul ball," Crede said. "I dove
for it anyway. We looked at the replay and he was out. It was a
good play, and the momentum shifted to our side at that point."


In the fifth, second baseman Tadahito Iguchi made a diving stop
on the outfield grass to retire Hank Blalock.


Chicago shortstop Juan Uribe stole a hit from Ian Kinsler in the
seventh inning, ranging far to his right and making a strong
throw to first.


Jim Thome and Jermaine Dye provided all the run support Buehrle
needed.  Thome hit a pair of solo homers, one in the third off
Rangers starter Kevin Millwood and his fifth in the seventh off
Joaquin Benoit to cap the scoring.


Dye belted a grand slam in the fifth off Millwood for his third
homer of the season.

