

Poland and Ukraine will have their work cut out preparing for
Euro 2012, facing a mammoth task of getting their stadiums,
transport and hotels up to scratch, as well as overcoming a
legacy of hooliganism and graft.


Organisers insist they will roll up their sleeves in order to
ensure the success of the football championships, after Poland
and its eastern neighbour's shock win over Italy and fellow joint
bidders Hungary and Croatia in the race to host the quadrennial
tournament.


In the lead up to Wednesday's decision by European football's
governing body UEFA at a meeting in Cardiff, the Polish-Ukrainian
bidders spared no effort to calm jitters.


Polish President Lech Kaczynski travelled to the Welsh capital
with Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko to make an 11th-hour
pitch for their bid.


After the announcement, Kaczynski took stock of what needed to be
done.


"We must not forget the enormity of the task of organising Euro
2012, but that is also excellent news for Poland. There will be
new stadiums built in Warsaw, Gdansk, Wroclaw and Poznan. That
can only be seen in a positive light," Kaczynski said.


"Five years is long enough and I am sure that with the
mobilisation and determination of the local authorities and the
people, we will succeed."


It will be the first time that either Poland or Ukraine have
hosted a major football championship.


Polish authorities said last week that around 26 billion euros
(35 billion dollars), including EU financing, have been earmarked
to upgrade infrastructure.


As it stands, a fan wanting to travel by road from Gdansk in
northern Poland to Donetsk, a host city in eastern Ukraine, needs
stamina to cover the 2,000-kilometres (1,240-miles).


The 22-hour trip -- not counting the lengthy wait at the Polish-
Ukrainian border -- is mostly on single lane roads.


Only 23 kilometres (14 miles) of the trip is on motorway.


Despite major EU funding since the fall of communism in 1989 and
Poland's membership of the bloc in 2004, the country still hasn't
built a basic motorway network connecting its major cities. The
situation is worse in Ukraine.


And train travel is little better: it currently takes 43 hours,
at best, to get from Gdansk to Donetsk.


Lack of investment means it is too dangerous to use high speed
trains on the aging tracks.


While booming low-cast airlines carry hundreds of thousands of
Poles back and forth to western Europe every year, there are
still no cheap links between Ukraine and Poland.


Outside major cities, particularly in Ukraine, good hotels are
hard to come by -- or at least in sufficient numbers to cater for
tens of thousands of fans, journalists and football officials.


Polish football is also blighted by hooliganism.


Fears that Polish fans would cause trouble at last year's World
Cup in neighbouring Germany led to a massive police operation in
both countries, although in the end the hooligans stayed away.


At home, however, it could be a different story.


In addition, Polish football's image has been dented by
corruption.


A two-year-old match-fixing scandal has led to more than 60
arrests, including several referees, a member of the Polish
Football Association (PZPN) leadership and a string of club
officials.


In Ukraine, meanwhile, foreign embassies regularly warn their
citizens about the risk of attacks by skinheads. Poland also has
a flourishing far right.


Although Ukraine is currently locked in political crisis pitting
supporters of the president and prime minister, its opposing
forces are united about Euro 2012.


Four Ukrainian cities selected as venues have already started
preparations including upgrading their existing football
facilities.


And the Kiev mayor's office has said the capital would completely
renovate its 86,000-seat Olympic stadium.


In the west of the country, Lviv city authorities have said they
will renovate the city's 28,000-seat stadium and increase its
capacity.


Ukraine's reigning champions Shakhtar Donetsk are currently
building a new 50,000-seat ground, while Dnepropetrovsk, who
finished sixth last season, had also began the construction of a
new arena in their town.


Ukraine's Sports Minister Viktor Korzh said major investors were
ready to step in alongside the authorities.


"There are serious investors, who are ready to invest up to 37
billion hryvnias (about 5.7 billion euros, 7.7 billion dollars)
in the construction of airports, roads, hotels and improving
sports infrastructure," he said.

