

South Korea was to urge North Korea Thursday to honour an
international disarmament deal and quickly shut down its nuclear
reactor, according to pool reports from Pyongyang.


The reports quoted by Yonhap news agency said delegation chief
Chin Dong-Soo would make the appeal during a speech later in the
day at a meeting on economic issues.


"The quick implementation of the February 13 agreement is a
short-cut to draw firm international support for inter-Korean
economic cooperation," they quoted the prepared text as saying.


The first full session of the four-day meeting was supposed to
start in the morning but the North abruptly asked for a delay
without explanation, according to the reports.


The session will likely start Thursday afternoon.


There was no news on whether South Korea would resume its
desperately-needed rice aid unconditionally, or whether it would
link it to nuclear progress.


The North opposes any linkage. "We work on the strict principle
of the separation of politics and economics," Kwon Ho-Ung, chief
cabinet councillor, said in a welcoming speech Wednesday.


Seoul suspended its regular annual shipment of 400,000 tons of
rice after the North's missile tests last July. Relations
worsened further after its October nuclear test but improved when
the North returned to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


North Korean officials say their country faces a shortfall of one
million tons of food this year, according to the World Food
Programme.


Under the first phase of the February deal the North was supposed
by April 14 to have shut down and sealed the Yongbyon reactor,
which produces the raw material for plutonium to make bombs, in
the presence of UN atomic inspectors.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation
since 2005.


The United States said the money was made available last week but
there has been no word on when or how the cash transfer will be
made.


South Korea's deputy chief nuclear negotiator Lim Sung-nam was to
visit China Thursday for talks with his counterpart on ways to
move the stalled nuclear talks forward, Yonhap said.


The opening of two railway lines across the heavily-fortified
border is also on the agenda.


South Korea wants railway test runs sometime in May but is
awaiting security guarantees. The North abruptly cancelled test
runs in May last year.


A deal under which the South would swap raw materials for natural
resources will also be discussed.

