

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jaywardene is confident of having fast
bowler Lasith Malinga fit for Tuesday's World Cup semi-final in
Jamaica.


Malinga, who has taken 15 wickets at under 15 apiece at the
tournament, has missed Sri Lanka's last three matches after
damaging left ankle ligaments.


His latest absence didn't prove costly, Sri Lanka dismissing
Ireland for 77 in their final Super Eights match at Grenada's
National Stadium here Wednesday with paceman Farveez Maharoof
(four for 25) and Muttiah Muralitharan (four for 19) doing the
damage.


But while Sri Lanka quick Dilhara Fernando was nursing an ankle
problem that saw him miss the Ireland match, Jayawardene was
confident that Malinga, whose slingy action makes him difficult
to face, would return for a last four clash where the 1996
champions are likely to face New Zealand.


"He's probably 90 percent okay," Jayawardene said of Malinga. "We
probably should have played him today (Wednesday) but we didn't
want to take the risk.


"We have almost a week before the next game. He's bowled 10 overs
in the nets this (Wednesday) morning. We just need to make sure
he gradually comes up. We don't want to take too many risks. He
should be ready to go in the semi-finals, definitely."


However, Jayawardene was less certain regarding Fernando's
fitness.


"Dilhara played against Australia with an ankle problem. He had
two injections in it and he needs to prove his fitness before the
semi-finals," said the skipper.


The Sabina Park pitch is likely to be the bounciest Sri Lanka
have encountered so far during a World Cup played on mainly slow,
low tracks.


But Jayawardene said his side would relish the conditions.


"We like bouncy wickets," said the top-order strokeplayer, 39 not
out against Ireland. "Like any other cricketers in the world, our
batsmen love to play on bouncy tracks when the ball is coming on.


"Obviously it's very hard for batsmen to score runs when it's not
coming on and we've got a very decent bowling attack to
complement those conditions.


"We just need to go to Jamaica and have a look at it and adjust
to it. That's what we've done all through the World Cup."


Meanwhile, Jayawardene was pleased by the ruthless way Sri Lanka
had seen off an Ireland team that had upset the formbook
dramatically by beating Pakistan in the group phase and defeating
Bangladesh in the Super Eights.


"They had a brilliant world Cup and we had to make sure we played
some really good cricket," said Jayawardene. "I'm not taking
anything away from my boys, they've played really good cricket."


He added: "The semi-final is a very big hurdle for us to jump.
We're looking forward to it. When we left Sri Lanka this was the
target we set, getting to the semi-finals and looking forward
from that.


"We've come a long way and there's no looking back for us now.
We'll give it our best shot."

