

Al-Ahly of Egypt are set to unleash smiling assassin Mohamed
Aboutraika on Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa in their African
Champions League showdown here Friday.


After missing the drawn first leg of the third round qualifier in
Pretoria two weeks ago through injury, the midfielder with a
fondness for smiling and scoring came on as a substitute in a
national league match last weekend.


Aboutraika was the hero last year when Ahly became only the third
club to successfully defend the title, scoring the stoppage-time
goal that snatched victory from Club Sportif Sfaxien of Tunisia
in the final.


But the joy of Portuguese coach Manuel Jose at the return of
Aboutraika was diluted by a knee injury to Angola World Cup
striker Flavio Amado which could keep him out of the Cairo
Stadium clash.


Furious at surrendering a two-goal lead against Sundowns, Jose
has dropped midfielder Hossam Achour after branding him an
"invisible man" when he replaced striker Emad Moteab during the
second half.


A one-match suspension rules out Sundowns Zimbabwe midfielder
Esrom Nyandoro while defender Vuyo Mere is available after
missing the 2-2 draw in South Africa through injury.


"I am confident of victory in Cairo as we would have won the
first leg but for a loss of concentration by the defence in the
closing stages," Jose told reporters in the Egyptian capital.


Opposite number Gordon Igesund insists all is not lost for the
expensively assembled South African side despite Ahly having lost
just four of 68 African Champions League matches at home.


"This is not an impossible task. I have had a good look at Ahly
and believe we can win in Cairo. The key is to get behind their
defence. When my players did that we scored two quick goals,"
said Igesund.


The tie is a repeat of the 2001 African Champions League final
when Ahly came from behind to draw 1-1 in Pretoria and a Khalid
Bibo hat-trick earned  the 'Red Devils' a 3-0 triumph in Cairo.


At least two former holders of a trophy that symbolises African
club supremacy will be eliminated this weekend as Morocco hosts a
couple of intriguing clashes.


Wydad Casablanca, who conquered the continent 15 years ago, host
1998 champions ASEC of Ivory Coast, who bring a 2-0 advantage
courtesy of a goal   in each half from Ghana Olympic striker
Nafiu Iddrisu.


France-born ASEC coach Patrick Liewig must watch from a stand at
the renovated 80,000-seat Mohamed V Stadium after receiving a
four-match ban for   criticising the awarding of a penalty in a
second round qualifier.


FAR Rabat, whose 1985 African Champions League triumph was the
first by a Moroccan club, have a slightly less intimidating task
having lost 1-0 to two- time winners TP Mazembe Englebert in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.


"Nothing is lost as our opponents got only one goal and that came
from the penalty spot. That result gives us a good chance to
overcome the deficit at home," said FAR coach Jawad Milani.


While Moroccan hopes of supplying two of the eight qualifiers for
the 3,5 million dollar group phase hang in the balance, the two
Tunisian challengers seem assured of places.


Esperance, African Champions League winners once and runners-up
twice, take a 3-0 lead over Young Africans to Tanzania and are
too strong defensively to let such a handsome advantage slip.


Young Africans Serb coach Milutin Sredojevic begs to differ: "It
may sound like a dream but given what I saw in Tunis, I believe
we can win by sufficient goals to go through.


"We must tighten out defence and attack from the wings. What I am
doing this week is instilling confidence and self belief in my
players that they can qualify for the group phase," he said.


Etoile Sahel of Tunisia, runners-up in 2004 and 2005, welcome
back young striker Yassine Chikhaoui from suspension and should
overcome Maranatha Fiokpo of Togo after forcing a goalless draw
in west Africa.


Nasarawa United of Nigeria are another team with a three-goal
advantage and are favoured to reach the mini-league phase at the
first attempt when they face Al- Hilal of Sudan in steamy
Omdurman.


Cotonsport Garoua of Cameroon take a 1-0 lead over Jeunesse
Sportive Kabylie of Algeria to north Africa and their hopes of
reaching the last eight for the first time could hinge on
snatching an away goal.


History will be created in Tripoli when Al-Ittihad of Libya try
to overcome a 3-1 loss to Etoile in the Congo as neither country
has qualified for the  mini- league phase.


Etoile, who eliminated three-time champions Canon Yaounde of
Cameroon and Saint George of Ethiopia in previous rounds, are
marginal favourites to succeed under Romanian coach Nicolae
Burcea.

