

Nigerians vote Saturday in landmark polls that should see power
transfer between two civilian presidents for the first time,
despite widespread violence and the threat of an opposition
boycott.


The historic election to choose a successor to ex-general
Olusegun Obasanjo is being billed as the first civilian-to-
civilian handover since the world's sixth biggest oil exporter
won independence from Britain in 1960.


The lead-up has been marred by accusations of fraud and vote-
rigging in last weekend's elections for provincial governors and
legislatures. At least 20 people were killed in violence
surrounding the regional polls.


Eighteen opposition parties responded by threatening to boycott
the presidential election unless it was postponed until
"transparency and fairness" could be guaranteed.


The United States, which along with the European Union and rights
groups expressed serious reservations over Nigeria's regional
polls, has urged the opposition not to carry out its threat.


Washington also called on Nigeria's government to take immediate
action to prevent the electoral misconduct and irregularities
that allegedly characterised the earlier polls.


The favourite to succeed Obasanjo and take the reins of Africa's
largest democracy is Umaru Yar'Adua of the ruling People's
Democratic Party (PDP).


He was flown to Germany for emergency medical treatment in March,
but health concerns aside the 55-year-old is seen as holding the
edge over his two main rivals.


They are Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who defected from the PDP
to run as candidate for the opposition Action Congress (AC), and
former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari.


Doubt over the candidature of Abubakar, who is known as "Atiku",
was ended by an eleventh-hour Supreme Court ruling that he could
stand despite attempts by the electoral commission to disqualify
him over corruption allegations.


The attempted barring of Atiku was widely seen as Obasanjo's
work. The outgoing president has vowed never to let his deputy
succeed him.


To appease the Christian south of the country, Yar'Adua --
governor of the northern Muslim state of Katsina -- chose as
running mate Goodluck Jonathan, from the oil-producing southern
state of Bayelsa.


Buhari, another northerner, also from Katsina, is seen as the
only candidate who stands a real chance against Yar'Adua.


Running for the All Nigerian People's Party (ANPP), he came to
power in a 1983 coup before being overthrown himself two years
later.


Whoever wins the support of the country's 61 million voters faces
the daunting task of consolidating the democratic gains and
economic reforms pursued by their predecessor.


Obasanjo was Africa's first military ruler to voluntarily
surrender power to a civilian administration in 1979. After two
terms as a democratically-elected leader, he has steered his
country towards elections, even if democracy remains fragile.


While ordinary Nigerians hope Saturday's election might help to
bring an end to the corruption that permeates society, Western
powers fear mainly for the stability of Africa's largest
democracy as a major oil source.


Shell, Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Total all operate in the west
African country and oil companies will be crossing their fingers
that existing unrest is not aggravated by political tensions
around the elections.


Nigerian troops on Wednesday shot dead 25 members of an Islamist
group that had attacked a police station the previous day in the
northern Muslim-majority city of Kano, killing 12 policemen and a
civilian.


The Islamist attack was believed to have been a bid to avenge the
killing of a radical Muslim cleric and two of his followers in a
mosque in a Kano suburb last week.


Trouble is not confined to the north and in a sign of heightened
tension ahead of the presidential vote, Obasanjo extended
Wednesday until May 29 a six-month state of emergency in the
southwestern state of Ekiti.


The unrest in Ekiti "could snowball into a complete state of
anarchy and lawlessness that could spread to neighbouring
states," he said in a five-minute address to the nation.


Final results from the governorship poll have still not been
released and six states, including the largest Kano, were put
under curfew after the related violence.

