

The race for the French presidency is dominated by four
contenders, but there are eight other candidates ranging from a
Trotskyite postman to a hunting party hopeful whose vote-
splitting potential gives them importance in Sunday's first
round.


Here are brief profiles of the fringe candidates, five of whom
are on the far left:


ON THE LEFT:


Olivier Besancenot, 32. A postman running for the Revolutionary
Communist League for the second time, Besancenot wants to make
firing workers illegal as part of a series of proposals to
bolster workers' rights.


Jose Bove, 53. The anti-globalisation crusader became popular
after he attacked a McDonald's outlet in 1999 as part of his
campaign against "la malbouffe" or bad food. Making his first bid
for the presidency, the sheep farmer casts himself as a
"spokesman for those who have no voice." He is calling for France
to pull out of the World Trade Organisation, which he sees as a
tool of the multinational corporations.


Marie-George Buffet, 57. The Communist Party candidate is taking
her first shot at the presidency with a platform that calls for
increased wages, building 600,000 new social housing units and
scrapping the ceiling on taxation that benefits the wealthy.


Arlette Laguiller, 66. Six-time candidate for the Trotskyist
Workers' Struggle (Lutte Ouvriere), the former typist is
advocating an anti-capitalism platform that would ban profit-
making companies from firing staff.


Gerard Schivardi, 56. A builder and mayor of the southern town of
Mailhac, Schivardi is the candidate of the far-left Workers'
Party. He calls for the defence of public services in rural areas
and wants France to pull out of the European Union.


Dominique Voynet, 48. The Green Party candidate and former
environment minister has pieced together an "ecology contract"
that calls for reducing France's dependency on nuclear power,
banning dangerous pesticides and fertilisers and opposing
genetically modified crops. A senator, she is making her second
bid for the presidency.


ON THE RIGHT:


Philippe de Villiers, 58, leads the nationalist Movement for
France party. Born Viscount Phillippe Le Jolis de Villiers de
Saintignon, the Eurosceptic politician last year released a book
warning of the "Islamisation" of France.


SINGLE-ISSUE CANDIDATE:


Frederic Nihous, 39. The candidate of the Hunting, Fishing,
Nature and Traditions party is committed to defending the rural
way of life. A lawyer, he won less than five percent of the vote
in the 2002 election.

