

The new president of Mauritania takes oath of office on Thursday
to complete the country's historic smooth transfer of power from
the military to a democratically-elected civilian ruler.


Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, 69, picked in landmark polls last
month in this northwest African Islamic state, is the first
democratically elected leader since independence from France in
1960.


Previous presidents in this vast and largely desert country have
seized power in coups or autocratically ran the country after
being re-elected in elections marred by fraud.


But a 17-member military junta that ousted former authoritarian
ruler Maaouiya Ould Taya in 2005, surprisingly embarked on a
series of sweeping democratic reforms capped by the presidential
vote declared free and fair by international observers.


The junta has declared the "commitment of the armed forces to
loyally serve the new institutions".


After Thursday's pomp and fanfare Cheikh Abdallahi faces huge
challenges of uniting the racially-diverse country, still
battling with its recent legacy of slavery.


He must boost living standards, establish rule of law and show
his independence from the outgoing junta, which was accused of
secretly backing him, said analysts.


"It is a enormous political challenge, the country is divided
into two blocks and they must be brought united so that together
they can take up the challenges which they face," said lawyer
Mohameden Ould Icheddou.


Half of the country's 3.1 million inhabitants live under the
poverty line, despite the opening of offshore oil fields a year
ago.


He has to ensure the equal distribution of the oil wealth which
started flowing into one of Africa's most impoverished countries.


He must "strengthen national unity and not the least, establish
the rule of law," said political analyst Daha Ould Teiss in this
country which has suffered decades of dictatorship and military
rule.


At least seven heads of states and governments drawn from west
African countries, the US Deputy Secretary of State John
Negroponte and representatives of the Arab states are slated to
attend the investiture in the capital Nouakchott.


Ould Abdallahi is a 69-year-old former political prisoner and ex-
government minister who won 52.85 percent of the votes in a
second round presidential run- off against veteran opposition
leader Ahmed Ould Daddah.


He will serve under a new constitution which limits the number of
presidential terms to just two five-year terms and sets a maximum
age of 75 years for a president.

