

World oil prices finished flat on Wednesday after another weekly
fall in US motor fuel reserves was overshadowed by news that US
refineries are picking up production following yearly
maintenance.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rose a marginal three cents to close at 63.13
dollars a barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
settled up 11 cents at 66.04 dollars a barrel, after earlier
slipping beneath 65 dollars for the first time since March 27.


The Department of Energy (DoE) said that US gasoline reserves
fell 2.7 million barrels last week. That marked the 10th
consecutive weekly decline and was heavier than analysts'
forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million barrels.


However, American refineries upped production capacity to 90.4
percent in the week to April 13, from 88.4 percent the previous
week. That beat market expectations of 88.9 percent.


AG Edwards analyst Eric Wittenauer said the DoE report was
"generally bullish" for oil prices given an unexpected fall in
crude stockpiles and the bigger than expected drawdown in
gasoline supplies.


But he added that "the report is likely to also have a bearish
interpretation as well."


"The improvement in runs was significant and suggests refineries
are completing their turnaround from maintenance season,"
Wittenauer said.


"With that, some of the worry about a gasoline supply shortage
heading into summer's peak demand will likely ease," he said.


Dealers are watching gasoline statistics closely before the US
summer driving season, starting next month, when many Americans
take to the highways for their holidays.


The DoE added that US crude inventories fell by 1.0 million
barrels last week, confounding forecasts for a gain of 625,000
barrels.


"The (oil market) sentiment is pretty negative so the market is
seizing on any bearish element" that will drive prices lower,
said Calyon analyst Mike Wittner as London prices slumped earlier
in the day.


He added: "As soon as refinery runs start to come up, even though
demand is stronger, output is going to start to pick up."


Traders were also tracking geopolitical worries after Iran, the
world's fourth- biggest oil producer,  refused to rule out
cutting crude exports if a standoff with the West over its
nuclear program intensified.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran's policy is to supply energy as a
responsibility. We are never seeking to cut the energy supplies
to the world," Oil Minister Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh told an industry
conference in Tehran.


"But naturally every country, which is subject to danger or
attack, should use all its possibilities to defend itself and
this is every country's right," he said.


His comments came in response to a question on whether Iran would
use oil as a weapon if the UN Security Council passes a third
resolution imposing more sanctions against Tehran over the atomic
drive.

