

As the United States struggled to understand why a Korean-
American student massacred at least 30 people at Virginia Tech
University, testimony in a leafy rural Wisconsin courthouse
plumbed the mind of another school shooter.


A portrait emerged this week of a disturbed and lonely boy who
was unable to explain why he shot his principal three times in
the school hallway as they wrestled to the ground on September
29, 2006.


Irene Hainstock, the boy's paternal grandmother, testified that
the teenager called her from jail right after the shooting.


"I said, 'Eric, what have you done?' and he said, 'Grandma, I
don't know. Something snapped in my head.'"


Witnesses described Hainstock as a sexually and physically abused
youngster who struggled with hyperactivity, learning
disabilities, problems with his parents and loneliness throughout
his life.


Hainstock, who will not testify at the hearing, told a
psychologist that he'd had fun the night before as the school got
ready to celebrate homecoming, an annual school dance.


But the next morning, alone at home, the 15-year-old woke up
feeling desperate, testified child psychologist Marty Beyer.


So he loaded two guns from his parents' house, took gas out of
the lawn mower and put it in his parents' truck.


He wanted someone to recognize how tormented he was in school.
How unhappy he was at home. How he hated being called a "fag."


"I had no plan," Hainstock told Beyer after the shooting. "I
wanted to make people listen. No one would help."


Students may have picked on Hainstock because of his annoying
behavior - talking too much, interrupting conversations and
hyperactivity, Beyer said.


"They picked on him for many years," Beyer testified, "early on
because of his learning disabilities - he couldn't keep up in
reading and math - and later on because of his body odor, wearing
clothes that smelled and wearing some clothes day in and day
out."


Ruth Willis, a local pastor's wife, said she'd warned a school
principal a few years ago that the troubled Hainstock could be a
school shooter if he didn't get help.


"I told him if he didn't find help for this boy, he was going to
have another Columbine on his hands," Willis testified. "I could
see the signs in Eric - he lived in a house with lots of guns. He
needed someone in his corner."


Willis described Hainstock as charming and helpful when she
worked with him in the church's youth group. "I believe Satan
entered that boy, and that's what caused him to do this," she
testified.


Hainstock, now 16, is charged with first-degree murder in the
death of principal John Klang, who was hailed as a hero for
stopping the boy from going on a rampage.


His lawyers are arguing that he should be tried as a juvenile. If
they lose, Hainstock faces a maximum life sentence without
parole. If they win, the government can only hold the teenager
until he is 25.


Beyer said a letter Hainstock wrote to Klang's widow, which was
confiscated by officers and never delivered, showed Hainstock was
out of touch and emotionally immature.


He wrote, "It's me, Eric. I'm sorry for what happened...I often
cry about what happened. I know it will never be the same."


He ended with "I'm so sorry" and a little drawing of a heart.


"He doesn't seem to realize what it would be for Mrs. Klang to
receive such a letter," Beyer said.


Testimony Wednesday focused on programs that would be available
for him if he were handled in the juvenile justice system, as
opposed to adult prison. The hearing continues Thursday.

