

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates was to meet Israeli Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert Thursday as he continued a Middle East tour
aimed at countering Iran's influence and shoring up support for
Iraq.


Gates, the first US defence secretary to visit key ally Israel in
seven years, met with Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni early on
Thursday, but no statements were made to the press afterwards.


The defence secretary arrived in Israel Wednesday on a third leg
of a regional tour, which has also taken him to Jordan and Egypt.


On touching down in Tel Aviv, he went straight into a meeting
with his Israeli counterpart, Amir Peretz, emerging later to
condemn a barrage of car bombs in Baghdad which left 190 people
dead.


The carnage, he told a joint press conference with Peretz, would
not deter Washington from pursuing its two-month-old security
plan in Iraq.


"We have anticipated from the very beginning... that the
insurgency and others would increase the violence to make the
people of Iraq believe the plan is a failure," Gates said.


"We intend to persist to show that it is not," he said.


Late Wednesday, he turned his focus on Iran, saying that
diplomacy was the "preferable focus" for dealing with Tehran's
nuclear programme, which the West fears is a cover for building
an atomic bomb.


"It's important to deal with the Iran nuclear problem with
diplomacy which is working," Gates said.


His trip is also aimed at reinvigorating the Israeli-Palestinian
peace process -- a top issue in his talks with Jordan's King
Abdullah II and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.


His discussions in Israel have also touched on Lebanon, the Gaza
Strip and Syria.


Israel waged a month-long war against the Shiite Hezbollah
movement in Lebanon in 2006 and accuses the militia of trying to
re-arm for a possible future conflict by smuggling weapons across
the porous border with Syria.


Gates said Washington had diplomatic relations with Syria but
"that doesn't mean that we approve of much of anything that they
do."


"Frankly Syrian activities, both in allowing suicide bombers to
cross their border into Iraq, where they kill both Iraqis and
coalition partners, their allowing of a resupply of Hezbollah in
Lebanon and a variety of other activities, are of great concern
to us," he said.


Gates will also seek to reassure Israel over planned US sales of
advanced weaponry to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries,
according to US officials.


The weapons package, aimed at countering Iran's growing strength
in the region, reportedly includes tanks, warships and advanced
air defence systems valued at between five and 10 billion
dollars. Its exact content and value are still under
consideration, US defence officials said.

