

His boyish face is unknown to ordinary moviegoers but for
filmmakers from Hollywood to Bollywood, Thierry Fremaux is one of
the most powerful gatekeepers on the planet.


As artistic director for the Cannes film festival -- still the
biggest, most prestigious international cinema event anywhere --
his final say-so on whether to select a film can thrust movies,
and their creators, into the glare of worldwide fame.


Likewise, a rejection from him can deal a devastating blow to
studio marketing strategies.


It's a job the 46-year-old relishes, even though it means sitting
through 800 films a year -- some four to six per working day --
and flying anywhere from South Korea to Brazil to sniff out new
talent.


As he counts down the weeks to the May 16-27 festival, the toll
can be seen: he has stubble on his chin, he's drinking double
expressos and he keeps one eye on his ever-ringing mobile phone.


"You have to keep fit, eat lightly, not drink and sleep well," he
told AFP in an interview. But, a rueful smile flitting across his
face, he admitted that his two children, aged two and four, so
rarely see him at the moment that they call him "monsieur."


Is he subjected to pressure from the thousands of moviemakers who
want to get their films into Cannes? "No. No pressure -- and no
little 'gifts'," he said clearly.


"When a director or a producer tells me 'You're going to get my
film, it's the best thing ever made in the history of cinema,' I
don't call that pressure!"


Nevertheless, with frenzied industry folk desperate to squeeze
their films into this year's festival, "everybody's tense,"
Fremaux acknowledged.


"But our choices are always respected."


That legitimacy relies on close working relationships with big
names in cinema, such as Terrence Malick, Wong Kar Wai and Clint
Eastwood, that Fremaux has patiently built up since taking the
job in 2001.


The artistic director's sympathies obviously lie with the
'artistes' in the business -- so much so that he felt personally
slighted when critics cold- shouldered certain films he selected,
such as Eastwood's "Mystic River" in 2003.


"Elsewhere, as soon as you have three good films, they say 'the
festival's a success.' At Cannes, they expect two masterpieces
every day!"


He is also keenly aware that Cannes's reputation depends on the
glamour surrounding it. Hence the wooing of Hollywood productions
such as "Matrix 3" and "The Da Vinci Code" which put famous faces
on the red carpet, even though the films were not in the running
for the Palme d'Or prize.


Renowned directors -- among them Pedro Almodovar, Nanni Moretti
and the Coen brothers, Joel and Ethan -- are festival fixtures.
But Fremaux makes sure new blood is also injected.


His flair in juggling all those demands has earned him respect,
not least from his predecessor, Gilles Jacob, who gave Cannes its
unassailable standing through nearly a quarter-century of careful
film selections.


Fremaux "is succeeding in his selections," said Jacob, who today
is the festival's president.


For Fremaux, a longtime cinephile from Lyon who also heads that
eastern city's cinema institute, his Cannes post is a dream job,
even if it limits his time for two of his passions: judo and
travelling in Argentina.


"Sometimes we feel like we are living very self-centred lives.
Luckily there are artists, because they talk to you about the
world," he said.


The end of the festival will finally deliver a long overdue
respite -- at least until the cycle starts up for next year's
iteration.


"Come June 1, I'm a nobody... that puts things in perspective,"
he smiled. And then the hectic pace of his day swelled up again
and carried him off.

