

US President George W. Bush gave Sudan Wednesday one "last
chance" to let UN peacekeepers into strife-torn Darfur, as
Washington and London threatened new UN sanctions to force
Khartoum's hand.


Britain and the United States planned to reach out Thursday to
other UN Security Council members to craft new punitive measures,
but veto-wielders China and Russia, as well as South Africa,
immediately shot down the plan.


Calling the violence plaguing Darfur "genocide" in a speech at
the Holocaust Museum in Washington, Bush warned Sudanese
President Omar al-Beshir that Khartoum faced tougher US sanctions
or other punishments if he abandoned his commitments.


"The time for promises is over, president Beshir must act," Bush
said. "If president Beshir does not meet his obligations, the
United States will act."


Bush said he would direct US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
to prepare a UN resolution to apply new sanctions, expand the
arms embargo against Sudan and prevent "offensive military
flights" over Darfur.


Bush also warned of "sterner measures" tied to Khartoum's alleged
use of military aircraft to pound targets in Darfur, where an
estimated 200,000 people have been killed and at least two
million more displaced since 2003.


A reliable source said US officials are considering options
including creating a no-fly zone like those that once blanketed
huge swathes of Saddam Hussein's Iraq, or even destroying
Sudanese government airplanes on the ground.


But White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters that,
while Bush on principle would not take military options off the
table, "it's not anything I hear actively discussed."


US officials explained that Bush's hard line aimed to dampen what
Washington considers irrational exuberance over Sudan's agreement
on Monday to allow UN support forces to go help under-equipped
African Union peacekeepers in Darfur.


Bush noted that UN chief Ban Ki-moon was in talks with Beshir on
the deployment of peacekeepers to Darfur, and warned: "President
Beshir should take the last chance by responding to the secretary
general's efforts and to meet the just demands of the
international community."


He warned that Beshir only had "a short period of time" to comply
before Washington would impose a series of economic sanctions and
seek reinforced UN sanctions.


But the US State Department later said Washington was willing to
give Khartoum "weeks" to follow through on its promise to allow
UN peacekeepers.


The United States agreed to a request from Ban for additional
time to test recent signs of Sudanese willingness to drop its
objections to the peacekeepers' deployment, said department
spokesman Sean McCormack.


"President Beshir does have some time" before facing sanctions,
he said.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said the new UN sanctions would
seek to pressure Sudan to allow international forces into Darfur
as well as impose sanctions against individuals responsible for
violence there.


"We have waited and waited," Blair said. "We have tried diplomacy
and negotiation again and again with the Sudanese government and
they have to get the message that the international community
will not allow the scandal that is Darfur to continue."


But Russia and China, two veto-wielding council members, along
with South Africa made it clear they oppose such a draft at this
time, saying Khartoum was cooperating with the UN on Darfur.


"Why do we have to be so negative?" Russia's UN Ambassador Vitaly
Churkin said. "After a long while, we have this kind of positive
development in the dialogue between the UN and Khartoum and all
of a sudden to come back with some sanctions would not be good."


South Africa's UN envoy Dumisani Kumalo added: "Bringing up
sanctions now is very counterproductive. What's the point?"


McCormack said Washington will launch an intensive diplomatic
lobbying campaign on Thursday by dispatching a senior State
Department official to South Africa.


Ban interpreted Bush's words as a sign that Washington was
willing to give diplomacy a chance to work.


Ban's spokeswoman, Michele Montas, said "the secretary general
welcomes President Bush's announcement today that he wants to
give the UN's diplomatic efforts a chance to succeed."


The Darfur conflict broke out in 2003 when government forces
including its Janjaweed Arab militias began fighting rebel groups
who had taken up arms in protest at the distribution of
resources.

