

More than 100 ships carrying commercial seal hunters for Canada's
annual harvest have been trapped for days by crushing ice off the
coast of Newfoundland province, Canada's Coast Guard said
Wednesday.


Several mariners had to evacuate their damaged boats while
icebreakers smashed through a huge expanse of packed ice to try
to reach them.


"We have in excess of 100 long liners still at sea ... in very
severe ice conditions," Coast Guard superintendent Brian Penney
said.


A sudden shift in wind and two recent storms tightened the ice
pack in the region along Newfoundland's northeast coast and
southern Labrador, endangering about 100 vessels off Fogo Island.


And "conditions are getting worse all the time," said Penney.


The vessels were taking part in Canada's controversial Atlantic
harp seal hunt, which was expected to cull 270,000 animals in
April and May.


Demonstrators in Europe and North America have denounced the
"cruelty" of seal hunting.


But Ottawa maintains the hunt poses no threat to the seal
population, which has ballooned over the past three decades to
almost 5.5 million, despite one million being killed in the past
three years.


Up to 20 percent of the Atlantic herd usually nests on thick ice
floes in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence, but this year
authorities and animal rights groups oddly found only slush and
ice fragments too small to support a newborn pup.


Ice floes in the northern Gulf and around Newfoundland province
were deemed to be in good condition ahead of the April 4 hunting
season start.


But at least 15 ships in the area now face "extreme ice pressure"
that could puncture their hulls, Penney said.


Four mariners were rescued overnight from a sinking ship by a
Coast Guard vessel, Sir Wilfred Grenfell, but it has since become
trapped in the ice, too. A heavy icebreaker is now headed to the
area to try to free the Grenfell.


Meanwhile, the crew of another boat found refuge on an ice floe
after abandoning their ship. But severe weather has prevented a
rescue by helicopter and the wind is not expected to ease until
the weekend, said authorities.

