

Beijing drivers need to upgrade their skills and behaviour if
costly government steps to reduce traffic congestion before the
2008 Olympics are to pay off, according to a top official.


The city government has spent more than 90 billion yuan (12
billion dollars) on building roads and improving public transport
over the past three years and will be spending even more in the
run-up to the Beijing Games.


But the push to cut the traffic congestion that has plagued the
city since ordinary Chinese started buying private cars en masse
over the past decade can only succeed with the cooperation of the
city's notoriously lax drivers.


Beijing had just one million cars by 1997. That figure has
swollen to almost three million and is expected to exceed 3.3
million by the time the Olympics open in August next year.


"In Beijing a lot of drivers don't have much awareness of
following the traffic rules or good driving behaviour, and the
quality of driving varies a lot," said Liu Xiaoming, deputy
director of Beijing's transport commission.


"In Beijing, if we want to improve the transportation system, or
even in the whole of China, it takes a lot of effort. And one
important way is to change the behaviour of drivers," he said.


From Thursday, the city government is running a programme to
encourage drivers to improve their skills and to be more
considerate of others on the roads.


"We have launched a campaign to promote civilised driving
behaviour amongst all the drivers and to encourage people to
follow the rules," said Liu.


"Basically we want to avoid the kind of behaviour that turns our
streets into big parking lots."


Part of the problem is the ease with which more than four million
Beijing residents received driving licenses in recent years,
passing a written exam and a perfunctory drive around a private
circuit without an actual test on the city's roads.


As a result, accident rates are higher here than anywhere else in
China and resulted in more than 1,300 road deaths in the city
last year, according to the Xinhua news agency.


"Beijing car owners just don't have any civilisation," said taxi
driver Ye Jingyan, who has seen the number of cars on the streets
triple since he began driving in 1996.


"No one gives way and no one gives a damn about you. Most of them
don't know how to drive."


The condition of Beijing's roads along with the capital's
infamous pollution are considered to be the two main obstacles to
a successful Olympic Games next year.


But Liu said that the solution lay in the city's plan for an
improved public transport system that involved new underground
railway lines and more and better bus routes.


The municipal government aims to increase the proportion of
people choosing public transport over private cars to at least 40
percent by 2010. The figure stood at around 20 percent last year,
up from 28 percent in 2005.


But in the more immediate future, traffic congestion around the
Olympic venues will be alleviated by the completion of 43 road
and bridge construction projects as well as three new subway
lines, Liu said.

