

Nicolas Sarkozy's tough talk about getting France back to work
looks set to put him in pole position after Sunday's first round
of voting in the presidential race, but his ultimate victory is
still far from certain.


The rightwinger faces a strong challenge from the Socialist
Segolene Royal who wants to become France's first woman
president, while centrist Francois Bayrou could still spring a
surprise from his third place position in the polls.


With more than one in three voters still undecided, the election
is seen as too close to call.


"All it takes is to convince a few thousand voters to make a
difference and shake up the showing at the finishing post,"
commented Jean-Marc Bouguereau, the chief editor of the left-
leaning Nouvel Observateur.


The polls show that former interior minister Sarkozy, 52, is
almost guaranteed a spot in the run-off set for May 6 but Royal,
53, could lose to Bayrou, 55, if her voters decide that he stands
a better chance of beating Sarkozy in the second round.


In fourth position, far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen is
confident that he will repeat the electoral upset of 2002 when he
beat Socialist contender Lionel Jospin to square off against
Jacques Chirac in the runoff.


Some 44.5 million eligible voters are choosing a successor to
Chirac who is stepping down after 12 years in office and has
endorsed Sarkozy as the candidate of his governing Union for a
Popular Movement (UMP) party.


The main candidates are promising to bring change to France, but
are offering starkly different solutions to address unemployment
which is now at 8.4 percent, a huge public debt and simmering
tensions in the high-immigrant suburbs that exploded into rioting
in late 2005.


The new president will also face the task of reconnecting France
to Europe after a majority of voters rejected a referendum on a
new EU constitution in 2005, slamming the brakes on the
construction of the new Europe.


The election will usher in a new younger generation of leaders
and could mark a turning point for a nation that is unsure of its
future and profoundly distrusts politicians.


The son of a Hungarian immigrant, Sarkozy is promising a "clean
break" with the politics of the past with promises of lowering
unemployment, stimulating growth with tax incentives, and
restoring the value of hard work.


His call for a ministry of education and national identity has
been criticised as a ploy to steal votes from the far-right by
promising to indoctrinate Arab and African immigrants on how to
be French.


But his tough-guy image acquired during his two stints as
interior minister has proven to be his biggest political
liability as polls show voters fear him.


Royal has seized on doubts over Sarkozy's personality to present
herself as a "calm strength" against the rightwinger's
"brutality" and has vowed to protect and improve the social
security net.


The former adviser for president Francois Mitterrand however is
battling doubts as to whether she has the gravitas needed to hold
the position of head of state.


She recently had to slap down calls within her Socialist Party
for an alliance between her and Bayrou ahead of the first round
to beat Sarkozy.


Campaigning as an outsider, Bayrou promises to bring down the
"Berlin Wall" of the left-right divide in French politics by
creating a unity government made up of moderates from both sides.


But as leader of a small party, Bayrou would face endless
negotiations to secure power-sharing deals, according to critics
who say his proposal would lead to paralysis.


Two polls released Wednesday showed a slight drop in Sarkozy's
lead at around 28 percent, while Royal was also losing ground at
between 22.5 and 25 percent.


Bayrou was up at 19 percent, according to the Ifop and TNS-Sofres
polls, while Le Pen had between 12.5 and 14 percent of voter
intentions.


Voting starts Saturday for some 882,000 citizens who live in
overseas departments and for the 820,000 expatriates who want to
vote in embassies and consulates abroad.


Polls open at 8 am (0600 GMT) on Sunday in mainland France, with
the first results expected shortly after the closure of voting
stations at 8 pm (1800 GMT).

