

Estonia said Wednesday it planned to start exhuming bodies within
a week under a Soviet war memorial in the centre of the capital,
a move likely to provoke a stiff reaction from Russia.


The monument, a large bronze statue of a Red Army soldier that
stands at a busy public transport stop in the heart of Tallinn,
has become a major source of dispute between Estonia and Russia.


Defence Minister Jaak Aaviksoo said in a letter to Tallinn city
authorities that the ministry will decide over the course of the
excavation work where to rebury the remains of soldiers who are
assumed to lie under the monument.


"We have to guarantee the peace of a burial place to those lying
there," Aaviksoo later told reporters.


"The location is unsuitable to secure the dignity of those under
the monument," he said.


Besides planning to exhume possible buried soldiers, Estonia
wants to move the monument itself to a less central location -- a
plan which has provoked angry outbursts from Moscow.


Russia sees it as a memorial to those who defeated Nazi Germany
during World War II but to many Estonians, it is a painful
reminder of 50 years of post-war occupation by the Soviets, whose
hold on the Baltic state only ended in 1991.


A military cemetery in a quiet neighbourhood of Tallinn has been
selected as a possible place for the reburial, Aaviskoo said.


The excavation work is due to start at a sensitive time, as
Soviet war veterans are preparing to commemorate on May 9 the
1945 victory over Nazi Germany.


The so-called Bronze Soldier is the hub of annual veterans'
ceremonies, with hundreds of people congregating to lay flowers,
but has also become a flashpoint.


"Definitely, there will be a fence around the monument for the
duration of the excavations," Aaviksoo said.


"It's hard to say today whether the work will be finished by May
9 or not," he added.


The Tallinn city government has received a total of nine
applications for various public demonstrations in the area for
May 8 and May 9.


Interior Minister Juri Pihl said the police would "guarantee law
and order around the monument on May 9, irrespective of whether
the monument is still there or not".


After scuffles between supporters and opponents of the monument
broke out last year, police had the area cordoned off for several
months.


This year, the square in front of the monument has already been
the scene of several clashes.


The Tallinn city government, on whose land the Bronze Soldier
stands, is opposed to the relocation of the monument, saying it
would cause "irrevocable results" for the city and the country
internationally, and would be "provocative" from the law and
order point of view.


City authorities have seven days to appeal the decision of the
defence ministry.


The municipal authorities have already tried unsuccessfully to
block the relocation of the monument through the courts.

