

It appears that the best way to win the World Cup is not to host
it.


The West Indies became the latest prey to the curse of the hosts
after failing to qualify for the semi-finals even before they had
finished their Super Eights engagements.


The hosts will take on Bangladesh and England in their last two
matches, but defending champions Australia, New Zealand, Sri
Lanka and South Africa have already made it to the last-four.


The Cup has been a jinx for the hosts ever since it was launched
in 1975. England, India, Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa had all tried to change the trend, but failed.


The burden of expectations, a flash of individual brilliance or a
pure mathematical error are some of the reasons for the home
teams leaving the party earlier than expected.


The West Indies raised their fans' expectations after qualifying
for the second round with an all-win record here -- only to dash
them with their below-par performances in the Super Eights.


"We are all disappointed and we are very sorry for the way we
have performed in this World Cup," said West Indies skipper Brian
Lara who is quitting one-day cricket after the tournament.


The World Cup has always been cruel to home captains.


England's one-day experience came to nought in big matches when
they hosted the first three editions, their best coming in 1979
when they finished runners-up to Clive Lloyd's West Indians.


They were blown away in the 1975 semi-final by Australian all-
rounder Gary Gilmour, a left-arm paceman who grabbed six wickets
on a seaming Headingley track to bowl the hosts out for a meagre
93.


England were very much in the game when they reduced Australia to
39-6, but again ran into Gilmour who scored a vital 28 not out to
see his team home.


The hosts looked the best prepared team in 1979 till the final
against the West Indies. It was the combined excellence of Viv
Richards and Collis King that knocked England out.


Richards hammered an unbeaten 138 and shared a century stand with
King (86) to help his side post a challenging 286-9 off their
allotted 60 overs.


England made a solid start when skipper Mike Brearley and Geoff
Boycott put on 129 for the opening wicket, but consumed more than
half of their stipulated overs before being restricted to 194.


They were the third time unlucky in the 1983 semi-final against
eventual winners India, but not because of an outstanding show
from an individual. It was a combined Indian effort that saw
England lose by six wickets.


When the Cup arrived in the sub-continent in 1987, India and
Pakistan left millions of fans in shock and disbelief after
falling in the semi-finals.


Those waiting for the India-Pakistan final at the Eden Gardens in
Calcutta had no option but to watch a young Australian side beat
England in a close match.


Allan Border's Australians gatecrashed Pakistan's party with a
victory in the first semi-final at Lahore, fast bowler Craig
McDermott being the star performer with five wickets.


India suffered the same fate when they were eliminated in the
semi-final at Bombay, not so much by England as by Graham Gooch
(115) who employed the sweep shot to a devastating effect.


It was Australia's turn in 1992.


They never looked at their best when they hosted the tournament
with New Zealand. They even failed to qualify for the semi-
finals.


New Zealand looked a better side under Martin Crowe before being
buried by Pakistan in the semi-final.


Pakistani batsman Inzamam-ul-Haq, then only 22, smashed a 37-ball
60 under pressure to steer his side home with four wickets to
spare.


It was a battle among the hosts in 1996 as India beat Pakistan in
the quarter- finals before being beaten by Sri Lanka in the semi-
final, awarded to the winners after riots in Calcutta.


The Pakistani fans then had no option but to watch Arjuna
Ranatunga's Sri Lankans beat Mark Taylor's Australians in the
day-night final at Lahore.


England's worst as hosts came in 1999 when they left the party
after group matches. The same fate was in store for hosts South
Africa in 2003 when they failed to qualify for the Super Six
stage.


It was a miscalculation that led to South Africa's ouster.


They apparently thought they had won the rain-hit group game
against Sri Lanka when they levelled the scores with one ball to
spare. In fact, they needed one more run to win.

