

The Taliban are stepping up their attacks on Afghan civilians as
part of their spring offensive against government and NATO-led
forces, Amnesty International said on Thursday.


According to the London-based human rights group, the Taliban are
increasingly targeting women's rights activists, clerics,
government and health workers as well as teachers.


"Afghan civilians are bearing the brunt of this conflict," said
Claudio Cordone, Amnesty's senior director for research.


"They are caught in the fighting between the Taliban, Afghan
government forces, US forces and forces from other NATO
countries.


"But it is the Taliban who have a deliberate policy of targeting
civilians -- they are killing teachers, abducting aid workers and
burning school buildings."


The Taliban regime was ousted by US-led forces in 2001 but the
former rulers and their followers have since hit back with a
bloody insurgency that has already left around 1,000 people dead
this year, most of them rebels.


Amnesty said that the Taliban had burned down at least 183
schools between 2005 and 2006, and noted that its military
rulebook "explicitly sanctions targeting and killing civilians."


The group also said that a Taliban fatwa, or religious edict,
called for the death of any person who supported the foreign
forces in Afghanistan.


It condemned the militia's use of improvised explosive devices in
roadside bombs and suicide attacks, with Cordone saying that by
conducting such "indiscriminate attacks," the Taliban were
"committing war crimes."


A Taliban spokesperson, interviewed by Amnesty, said that attacks
on "unharmed" civilians not considered a threat were "forbidden,"
but went on to say that "there is no difference between the armed
people who are fighting against us and civilians who are co-
operating with foreigners."


"All parties to the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan must ensure
that civilians are protected and all prisoners treated humanely,
as required by international law," Cordone said.


"A first step for the Taliban is to stop deliberately targeting
civilians and end all indiscriminate attacks."

