

Three days ahead of the first round of France's presidential
election, AFP is filing a package of stories covering the
personalities and issues at stake.


We will shortly file the following:


France-vote,ADVANCER


PARIS


Nicolas Sarkozy's tough talk about getting France back to work
looks set to put him in pole position after Sunday's first round
of voting in the presidential race, but his ultimate victory is
still far from certain.


700 words by Carole Landry. Picture, graphic


We will also move: France-vote-issues


France-vote-undecided


PARIS


Disappointed with the candidates or planning a last-minute
tactical switch: as the clock ticks down to round one of France's
presidential election, one in three voters is still unsure who to
back.


700 words by Audrey Kauffmann. Pictures, graphic, video


France-vote-Sarkozy,PROFILE


PARIS


Nicolas Sarkozy, the frontrunner in the French presidential race,
campaigns for a "clean break" with the politics of the past but
his tough-talking style sparks fears he will divide rather than
unite the nation.


550 words. Pictures, graphic, video


France-vote-Royal,PROFILE


PARIS


Segolene Royal, the Socialist candidate who shot to political
stardom thanks to a highly personal campaigning style, has lost
some of her shine but still sees herself as France's first woman
president.


550 words. Pictures, graphic, video


France-vote-Bayrou,PROFILE


PARIS


Francois Bayrou, who unexpectedly emerged as a serious challenger
in France's presidential race, is a former Latin teacher who
believes the country must ditch its "prehistoric" left-right
political divide.


500 words. Pictures, graphic, video


France-vote-LePen,PROFILE


PARIS


French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, standing in his fifth
and probably final presidential election, is a former paratrooper
who sees immigration as the source of France's ills.


550 words. Pictures, graphic, video


France-vote-candidates,PROFILE


PARIS


The race for the French presidency is dominated by four
contenders, but there are eight other candidates ranging from a
Trotskyite postman to a hunting party hopeful whose vote-
splitting potential gives them importance in Sunday's first
round.


450 words.  Pictures, graphic, video

