

Schools and universities across the United States rushed to beef
up security in the wake of the massacre at Virginia Tech, but
experts warned there is little that can be done to impede a
determined killer.


The Montgomery county school division outside of Washington was
one of many which tried to reassure parents by sending home notes
describing the close collaboration between the schools and local
police.


But the police usually arrive too late. Just as in the case of
the two teens who killed 13 people at Columbine High School in
1999, the shooter at Virginia Tech killed himself before police
made it into the building.


Some schools are considering key-card systems to prevent
unauthorized access to their buildings. But this wouldn't have
stopped a student like Cho Seung-Hui, who lived on campus and
killed more than 30 people Monday.


Parents have long looked to metal detectors and guards to keep
guns out of schools. This is unrealistic for a sprawling college
campus such as that of Virginia Tech which has more than 100
buildings.


And metal detectors didn't stop a massacre at a high school on
the Red Lake, Minnesota Indian reservation when Jeffrey Weise,
16, shot and killed an unarmed guard at a metal detector before
killing five students and a teacher in March 2005.


The American Civil Liberties Union has criticized the widespread
use of metal detectors, saying in a recent report that they cause
long queues and create "hostile and dysfunctional environments
that are damaging to students and disempower educators."


Some groups have responded to the recent spat of school shootings
by suggesting extreme measures.


A handful of schools have begun teaching their students to
overpower hostage takers or shooters.


And one group has suggested that college students ought to bring
guns to class.


"Enough of elitist baloney from colleges and universities. If
just ONE of those victims had been armed, this most probably
would have turned out very differently," the Virginia Citizens
Defense League said on its website after the shootings.


There have been a number of calls to improve communication
systems after Virginia Tech relied on loudspeakers and emails to
alert students to the danger on campus.


"Once you see that something is going on, you need to have a
system in place that you can just basically type a quick message,
push a button and it goes out to everyone's cell phone as a text
message," Catherine Bath, executive director of Security on
Campus, told AFP.


Bath said this system is inexpensive and only takes a day to set
up.


Another simple method that can have dramatic results is
installing locks on classroom doors, said Frank Green, executive
director of Arkansas-based KeystoSaferSchools.com.


"We learned from Columbine that even though the shooters have
enough firepower to blow down the doors, they bypass it if it's
locked," he said.


Green said the best approach is to prevent violence by having
teachers work on reducing incidents of bullying and work on anger
management and deescalation of conflicts.


While these incidents are shocking, they are thankfully
incredibly rare, James Alan Fox, a criminology professor at
Northeastern University in Boston wrote in an editorial.


He warned against turning campuses into an "armed camp" in
response to the shooting.


"More college kids die from drug- and alcohol-related mishaps
than from campus shootings," he wrote.


"If one seeks a total guarantee of zero risk, the only option
might be an online degree from the safety of the living room."

