

The Philippine campaign against a popular Muslim militant could
backfire, forcing a realignment of radical Islamic groups and
eroding public support for a government peace drive, analysts
say.


They say the new offensive against Moro National Liberation Front
(MNLF) commander Habier Malik could lead locals to withdraw their
support for a joint US-Philippine effort against the Abu Sayyaf
and the Jemaah Islamiyah (JI).


The Al Qaeda-linked groups are being hunted down by more than
8,000 Philippine troops on Jolo, the same island where Malik and
his group are being hunted.


"Malik is the most belligerent of the MNLF commanders and it is
difficult to isolate him," said Julkipli Wadi, a professor at the
University of the Philippines who has closely followed the
Islamic secession movement.


"He is the most well known among the MNLF leaders in Jolo and
going after him could force him to engage the Al-Qaeda linked
militants in a tactical alliance," Wadi said.


The MNLF in 1996 signed a peace treaty with the government, and
dropped its armed struggle for independence to settle for limited
autonomy instead. It has since helped the government track down
wanted top militants.


The group also remains a major force in Muslim politics and many
of its members have either become local politicians or
influential tribal leaders with armed followers.


Giving it additional importance, the 57-nation Organisation of
the Islamic Conference (OIC) recognises the MNLF as the sole
representative of minority Muslims in this overwhlemingly
Catholic nation.


But with the all-out campaign against Malik, launched after his
followers killed three soldiers in shelling an army base last
week, he might be tempted to side with hardline groups like Abu
Sayyaf and JI, analysts say.


"While there may be a limit to that possible alliance, it may be
expedient for Malik to work with these groups. I think at some
point they may strike at the same time," Wadi said.


Zainudin Malang of the Center for Moro Law and Policy Concerns, a
think tank, said the government should try to lure Malik back to
the peace table -- or risk a backlash from once-neutral Muslim
communities.


"This is a reflection of government's failure to engage
peacefully the maintream Muslim liberation fronts," Malang said.


"And it would leave them with no choice but to ally themselves
with the more extremist groups now wanted for terrorist acts in
the region."


There are scant public records of Malik's life, but AFP sources
said that as a teen-aged boy in the 1970s, he fought in the
jungles of Jolo under the MNLF and earned the respect of the
elders.


He is now considered one of four top lieutenants of MNLF chair
Nur Misuari, who under the 1996 peace pact became governor of an
autonomous region.


But Misuari lost government support after his term was marred by
corruption, and in 2000 he and Malik launched simultaneous
attacks on Jolo and in Zamboanga city, killing more than 100
people.


Misuari was captured and is now being tried for rebellion.


Malik was allowed to return to Jolo, where analysts said he
consolidated his forces.

