

Mark Buehrle pitched the 16th no-hitter in Chicago White Sox
history on Wednesday, as the White Sox defeated the Texas Rangers
6-0.


The no-hitter was the first for the White Sox since lefthander
Wilson Alvarez accomplished the feat against the Baltimore
Orioles on August 11, 1991. It also was the the first by a White
Sox pitcher in Chicago since Joel Horlen's on September 10, 1967
against Detroit.


In the ninth inning, Buehrle struck out Matt Kata and Nelson Cruz
before getting Gerald Laird on a groundout to third base, setting
off a jubilant celebration in the middle of the diamond.


The only Texas baserunner was Sammy Sosa, who drew a walk in the
fifth inning, but Buehrle promptly picked him off. The lefthander
finished with eight strikeouts.


Buehrle posted the first major leaguer no-hitter since Florida's
Anibal Sanchez beat Arizona 2-0 on September 6, 2006.


The last American League no-hitter was by Boston's Derek Lowe on
April 27, 2002, against Tampa Bay.


Buehrle struggled through the worst season of his career last
year. He made the All-Star game, but was 3-7 in the second half
with a 6.44 ERA to finish  12-13 - his first losing season in
seven years.


He was removed in the second inning of his first start in 2007
after being struck with a line drive and yielded three runs and
four hits over seven innings April 11 at Oakland.


On Wednesday, Buehrle got some defensive support from third
baseman Joe Crede, who made a spectacular diving stop on Jerry
Hairston's hard grounder in the top of the second inning.


Crede got to his feet and threw out Hairston, who dove head-first
into first base and was ejected minutes later for arguing the
close play.


Chicago shortstop Juan Uribe stole a hit from Ian Kinsler in the
seventh inning, ranging far to his right and making a strong
throw to first.


Jim Thome and Jermaine Dye provided all the run support Buehrle
needed.  Thome hit a pair of solo homers, one in the third off
Rangers starter Kevin Millwood and his fifth in the seventh off
Joaquin Benoit to cap the scoring.


Dye belted a grand slam in the fifth off Millwood for his third
homer of the season.

