

A wave of car bombings that killed 172 people in Baghdad
Wednesday underscored the seeming impotence of the vaunted US
"surge" force against Sunni extremists willing to inflict mass
civilian casualties.


US commanders said sectarian killings have fallen sharply since
additional US combat brigades and Iraqi security forces have
converged on the capital to head off an all-out civil war between
Shiites and Sunnis.


But Sunni extremists made a mockery of beefed-up defenses around
the capital with a string of car bombings Wednesday, the worst of
which killed 122 people in a busy market area.


"Any time someone is determined to kill innocent civilians, and
kill themselves to do it, that's a hard attack to stop," said
Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman.


Loren Thompson, a military analyst with the Lexington Institute,
said the problem is more fundamental.


"These attacks prove that the US military still doesn't have a
solution to the core problem in Iraq, which is a mass killing
campaign by Sunni extremists," he said.


Sunni extremists have used bombings to destabilize Iraq at
pivotal momements of the four year US occupation, driving out the
United Nations, foreign embassies and international aid
organizations early on.


On February 22, 2006, the bombing of a revered Shiite mosque in
Samarra set off the country's worst eruption of sectarian
violence since the US invasion.


That prompted the deployment of increasing numbers of US troops
to put a lid on the violence despite deepening disenchantment
with the war at home.


There are currently 146,000 US troops in Iraq. Three more US
combat brigades are on their way as part of a last ditch effort
to salvage the faltering US mission.


Admiral William Fallon, the new commander of US forces in the
Middle East, told lawmakers the surge in troops to Baghdad has
significantly reduced the number of sectarian murders.


"The biggest concern I have are the periodic big bangs which are
really troublesome because of the potential for retaliation and
retribution," he said.


The US Defense Department has spent billions of dollars to come
up with ways to protect US troops from suicide bombings, car
bombings and roadside bombings, with little to show for it.


"This is a very challenging situation where we're chasing a
rabbit that runs pretty quickly," Fallon said.


"The enemy is very astute at watching what we do and adapting his
tactics and procedures to take advantage of any weakness they
see," he said.


The US military relies on intelligence to root out bomb-making
factories and networks of bombers, but it is unclear how
effective it has been in stopping bombings aimed at civilians.


Pentagon officials were unable to provide statistics on how many
bomb attacks have been thwarted.


Michael O'Hanlon, an analyst at the Brookings Institution, said
there will never be enough security forces on the streets to
search every vehicle for explosives.


"So the only real hope is to either keep vehicles out of a given
area altogether or find the factories where these weapons are
built," he said.


"When you think about it in these terms, it's hardly surprising
that we would fail," he said.


"When you actually try to solve this problem, and break it down
into tasks you can plausibly attempt to do, there is just no easy
answer," he said.


Thompson said US forces do not seem to understand the enemy well
enough to stop the attacks.


"There is no evidence we understand how to stop it from
occurring," he said.


"In some ways the American presence may actually be making the
situation worse, by preventing the Shiite militias from dealing
with the Sunni attacks," he said.

