

Australia's drought is so severe it will force the government to
cut off water supplies to the nation's prime farmland if it does
not break soon, Prime Minister John Howard said Thursday.


Rural Australia faced an "unprecedentedly dangerous situation",
Howard said, warning water allocations to farmers in the Murray-
Darling river basin would be cancelled unless there was heavy
rainfall in the next six to eight weeks.


The prime minister acknowledged the move would have a devastating
effect on farms in the region, which provides 40 percent of
Australia's agricultural produce.


But he said the water was needed for urban communities facing
critical shortages due to what scientists have called the worst
drought in a century.


"It's a grim situation and there's no point in pretending to the
Australian public otherwise," Howard told reporters.


"Based on the need to provide a critical minimum supply of water
to urban communities within the basin, there is unlikely to be
any water available for irrigation purposes in the upcoming water
year."


The Murray-Darling basin in southeastern Australia covers more
than one million square kilometres (386,000 sq miles), including
most of New South Wales state and large parts of Victoria,
Queensland and South Australia.


Containing 72 percent of Australia's irrigated crops and pastures
and much of the nation's grape crop, it is regarded as the
country's food basket.


"The impact that this is going to have on industry, on the
horticultural industry and crops like grapes and stone fruits and
other primary industries that rely on irrigation, including the
dairy industry, is very critical indeed," Howard said.


The National Farmers' Federation (NFF) said the move to cut off
water in the 2007-08 financial year was unprecedented and that
the organisation would seek urgent talks with the government.


Laurie Arthur, the head of the NFF's water task force, said
orchards and vineyards would die without irrigation and would
take years to replace.


"We've never seen the like of this ever," he told Sky News.
"We've been watching the run-down of dams for the past 12
months."


Cheryl Rix, from agricultural production firm Western Murray
Irrigation, said many farmers could be forced off the land.


"This is just devastating," she said. "We're going to have to
turn off our taps on July 1 and the farmers will have to rely
totally on what falls from the sky. There's not good forecasts
for that.


"It'll certainly break the back of some of our growers here."

