

Mushtaq Ahmed, last seen sobbing over Bob Woolmer's death at the
World Cup, returned to the familiar surroundings of sleepy Hove
on Wednesday and did what he does best - bamboozle batsmen.


The 36-year-old Mushtaq, the assistant coach in Pakistan's doomed
Caribbean campaign, celebrated the opening of the English county
season by taking 6-74 as champions Sussex bowled out Kent for
216.


At stumps, Sussex were 138-1 in reply.


Mushtaq revealed on the eve of the new season how returning to
play for Sussex, for the fifth year, was helping him recover from
the trauma of Woolmer's murder.


"Every time I think about Bob and what happened to him it
depresses me, it is very hard to talk about it," the veteran leg-
spinner told The Argus newspaper.


"I had great feelings for him. He was part of our Pakistan
cricketing family and a great man.


"As a coach, to take the Pakistan team from seventh in the world
rankings to third in three-and-a-half years was a great
achievement.


"He was the best coach I ever worked with. All I hope is that
they discover what happened to him as quickly as possible.


"It has been a very difficult month for me. But things are
slightly better now that I am back with the Sussex family.


"Going out on the field and doing my best for Sussex is my chance
to escape from all the other things.


"To be honest, what has happened in the past few weeks has given
me even more hunger for playing cricket. Playing is my bread and
butter and when I'm out there in the middle that's all that I'm
thinking about."


Mushtaq's haul on Wednesday took his career county toll to 373
wickets, but he may not be the only Pakistan spinner who will
have an impact on Sussex this season as international compatriot
Saqlain Mushtaq is also qualified to play for the champions.


Saqlain and Mushtaq haven't played together since Pakistan met
New Zealand in a Test match in Auckland in 2001.


"Saqlain joining us is good news," said Mushtaq.


"He is very hungry and passionate and when you have that as well
as the talent you will always expect him to deliver the best.


"He has a great record in international and county cricket. He
has had some injury problems but when he gets fully fit he has
the potential to have the same impact as I have had for Sussex.
And he is bowling his doosra again which is great news."


Two other members of Pakistan's World Cup squad were also in
action in the county championship on Wednesday.


Azhar Mahmood took 3-48 for Surrey at The Oval but Yorkshire
still made 390-8.


Spinner Danish Kaneria took 4-101 for Essex before Derbyshire
finished on top making for 405 for six at Chelmsford.

