

South Korea urged North Korea Thursday to  honour an
international disarmament deal and quickly shut down its nuclear
reactor, saying this would unlock international support for
economic aid.


Seoul made the appeal as economic talks in Pyongyang with its
impoverished communist neighbour went into a second day,
according to pool reports.


"The quick implementation of the February 13 agreement is a
short-cut to draw firm international support for inter-Korean
economic cooperation," said South Korea's delegation chief Chin
Dong-Soo.


There was no news on whether South Korea would resume its
desperately-needed rice aid conditional on nuclear progress.


The North opposes any linkage. "We work on the strict principle
of the separation of politics and economics," Kwon Ho-Ung, chief
cabinet councillor, said in a welcoming speech Wednesday.


Seoul suspended its regular annual shipment of 400,000 tons of
rice after the North's missile tests last July. Relations
worsened further after its October nuclear test but improved when
the North returned to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


North Korean officials say their country faces a shortfall of one
million tons of food this year, according to the World Food
Programme.


Under the first phase of the February deal the North was supposed
by April 14 to have shut down and sealed the Yongbyon reactor,
which produces the raw material for plutonium to make bombs, in
the presence of UN atomic inspectors.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation
since 2005.


The United States said the money was made available last week but
there has been no word on when or how the cash transfer will be
made.


South Korea's deputy chief nuclear negotiator Lim Sung-nam was to
visit China Thursday for talks with his counterpart on ways to
move the stalled nuclear talks forward, Yonhap news agency said.


The opening of two railway lines across the heavily-fortified
border is also on the agenda.


South Korea wants railway test runs sometime in May, according to
the pool reports quoted by Yonhap, but is awaiting security
guarantees. The North abruptly cancelled test runs in May last
year.


A deal under which the South would swap raw materials for natural
resources will also be discussed.


In 2005 South Korea agreed to provide the North with materials
worth 80 million dollars to help it produce clothing, footwear
and soap.


In return, the North was to provide the South with minerals such
as zinc and magnesite after mines were developed with South
Korean investment.

