

Overwhelmed by the horrific shooting death of 32 classmates and
lecturers, students at Virginia Tech turned to families, pastors,
even video games to relieve their grief -- even as new photos and
video from the killer sent fresh chills through the community.


With classes at the scene of America's worst-ever mass school
shooting cancelled until Monday, the campus in this Appalachian
foothills city emptied out as students fled home to the solace of
family and friends.


For those that stayed behind, there were grief counselors,
visiting priests and pastors and memorials on the vast drillfield
at the university center in which to search out comfort.


"This is a disaster site," said Peter Bedrin, a member of a
Scientology Church "Disaster Response Team" who are dressed in
yellow jackets advertising "Volunteer Ministers" and sought to
counsel anguished students.


There were representatives of many faiths, including legendary
evangelist Billy Graham's son Franklin. But by Wednesday
afternoon, there weren't many students left on campus, only
graduate students who had all-important science lab projects to
keep an eye on.


"Most of them have gone home," said Sam Mitchell of Annapolis,
Maryland.


"I think that they just want to see their families after all that
has happened."


Zebib Bahta, a communications major from Springfield, Virginia
wearing a T-shirt with dozens of red broken hearts on it, was
staying on, she said as she read the elegies on the drillfield
memorial boards.


"I think it's better to be here and be with people you know," she
said.


Most had yet to see the shuddering images of the South Korean-
born killer Cho Seung-Hui which had been received in the mail by
NBC television that morning and were only shown the public
Wednesday evening.


The photographs and video -- evidently mailed in between the two
separate shootings Monday -- showed Cho posing menacingly with
guns and knives and ranting against the world.


"He's nuts. I wish something could have been done earlier" to
stop him, said engineering student Anton Fionov of Boston,
Massachusetts.


"How can a mentally ill person get a gun?" asked Fionov's friend
Fred Kosnoc, from New York.


Kosnoc was referring to reports that Virginia Tech police had
judged Cho mentally ill after previous incidents in 2005.


Many students found much comfort in the marriage of Christianity
and the university's "Hokie" culture, with tight-knit bonds
formed by the community under the school's nickname and around
its sports teams.


"God Bless the Hokie Nation," read one of many such laments on
boards erected on the drillfield.


"It's a common denominator" for all students, a family, said
Richard Macdonald, together with Fionov and Kosnoc at a
restaurant.


"As soon as you join the school you are a Hokie," he said, noting
that the tragedy pulled in alumni, including prominent pro sports
stars, to join the mourning.


The three said they looked for anything to get their minds off
the massacre. "We just sit around, play video games to try to
forget what happened," Macdonald said.


"Anything you can do to take your mind off of it," added Kosnoc.


Outside Norris Hall, where most of the killing took place, Randy
Martinez and Jackie Albright played guitar and sang Christian
folk songs despite the abscence of students in the area, cordoned
off by police.


"We just wanted to get close and sort of reclaim the ground and
pray that Jesus would send life where there has been death," said
Albright.


The two, from Grace Church in Fredericksburg, Virginia, were
waiting to perform at religious services at a Christian
fraternity on campus Wednesday evening.


"We go where there are crises," said their leader, Reverend
Stephen Dornbusch.


Just off campus, business at the Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant
and sports bar was nearly back to normal Wednesday night, said
bartender Catherine, who didn't give her last name.


"People are a little more somber," she said. But signs of the
mass shooting's fallout were everywhere: many patrons wore orange
ribbons if not the maroon and orange colors of the university.


From the bar a couple watched with clear dismay at the images of
Cho on a television, the Korean snarling out at the restaurant's
patrons with unmitigated hate -- while next to it another TV
showed a live baseball game.


Just below the TVs, in a corner, two women, somewhat
discordantly, meanwhile picked off deer on an arcade game.

