

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming insists he won't copy Sri
Lanka's controversial tactics and rest key bowlers for Friday's
World Cup clash against champions Australia.


Both sides, whose match at Grenada's National Stadium is their
last in the Super Eights, are already through to the semi-finals
and won't face each other in the last four.


Sri Lanka, in a similar position to New Zealand, omitted left-arm
quick Chaminda Vaas and off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan from a
side that suffered a seven- wicket defeat against Australia on
Monday in Grenada


Mahela Jayawardene, the Sri Lanka captain, defended the decision
on the grounds of rest and injury-prevention.


But it also had the effect of denying Australia's batsmen a fresh
look at Sri Lanka's two senior bowlers ahead of a possible
meeting in the April 28 final in Barbados.


However, Fleming insisted New Zealand wouldn't compromise their
chances of making it four straight one-day international wins
against Australia after a 3-0 Chappell-Hadlee triumph on home
soil in February.


"We'll go in with the best possible team bar injury scares," said
Fleming in a clear indication that strike fast bowler Shane Bond
would play.


"If someone needs to be rested from an injury point of view we'll
be cautious with that.


"We want to continue where we left off against Australia in New
Zealand. They're a tough side if they get on top of you and
they've got a point to prove."


New Zealand bounced back from defeat by Sri Lanka, their only
loss in the tournament so far, with a five-wicket victory against
South Africa in Grenada on Saturday.


Now, barring an extraordinarily huge win against Australia which
would see them change places in the table, they will face Sri
Lanka in the first semi-final in Jamaica on Tuesday.


Australia are set to take on South Africa in the other semi-final
in St Lucia on Wednesday.


"It's a great opportunity before the semi-finals start to
maintain the standards we had against South Africa," Fleming
explained.


"Part of the selection (against Australia) is looking forward to
Sri Lanka and assessing what conditions we'll get in Jamaica and
Barbados and just make sure the team picked for Australia covers
those bases."


Australia, defending a 26-game unbeaten record at the World Cup,
face a key decision over all-rounder Shane Watson.


The pace bowler whose presence gives Australia a genuine fifth
option in their attack, sustained a calf strain while bowling
against Bangladesh in Antigua on March 31 and has missed his
side's last three matches.


If he doesn't take the field against New Zealand that will place
a huge question mark over his participation in the rest of the
tournament.


New Zealand have never won a World Cup, or even reached the
final, but Australia captain Ricky Ponting is in no doubt about
their quality.


"They love a fight, they love a scrap," Ponting said.


New Zealand all-rounder Scott Styris is averaging over 100 with
the bat in the Caribbean after scoring a century and four
fifties.


Bond, meanwhile, has taken 12 wickets at under 25 apiece in an
attack that also features experienced left-arm spinner Daniel
Vettori.


"Styris has been good for them so far, Bond's obviously very good
and Vettori is always good in these sorts of conditions," Ponting
added.

