

The dollar suffered fresh losses against the yen and hovered
close to its all- time low against the euro in Asian trade
Thursday as the market focused on differences in interest rates,
dealers said.


They said the yen was buoyed by speculation of an early interest
rate rise by the Bank of Japan although some players were
sceptical about the chances of another hike while consumer prices
are falling.


The dollar fell to 118.16 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 118.66
late Wednesday in New York.


The euro was at 1.3586 dollars after 1.3607 and at 160.53 yen
from 161.49.


The single currency is within sight of its all-time high of
1.3666 dollars which it hit on December 30, 2004, riding high on
optimism about prospects for the eurozone economies.


The British pound was changing hands for 2.0038 dollars after
easing back from a 26-year high.


Dealers said the market continued to focus on prospects for
further rises in interest rates in Britain, the eurozone and
Japan, while many market watchers believe the US Federal Reserve
will cut interest rates later this year.


"There is a speculation that the Bank of Japan will go for
another interest rate hike in May," said Shigeru Nakane, senior
client manager at Resona Bank.


"As market players continue selling the dollar, they tend to buy
back Asian currencies, including the Japanese yen," he added.


The market had been expecting the Japanese central bank to wait
until the second half of 2007 before raising interest rates again
given the upper house elections in July and still-tame inflation.


But talk of a possible rate rise increased after Japan's tertiary
index, which measures spending in the services sector, increased
1.0 percent in February from January, rising for the second
straight month, dealers said.


They said that the near-term chances of the BoJ raising its key
lending rate from 0.5 percent may hinge on the central bank's
economic outlook report which is due next week.


BoJ governor Toshikiko Fukui told a meeting of the central bank's
branch managers Thursday that consumer spending was solid and
consumer prices were on a rising long-term trend despite a dip in
February, the first in 10 months.


Even so some market watchers doubted the chances of another BoJ
rate hike yet.


An interest rate rise in May "would be a bit difficult," said
Saburo Matsumoto, chief forex strategist at Sumitomo Trust Bank.


"Although BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui has empasised that Japan's
interest rate needs to be normalised, he has been very prudent.
The recent consumer price index was not strong enough," said
Matsumoto.

