

Oil prices were mixed in Asian trade Thursday after a fall in US
gasoline (petrol) inventories was overshadowed by news that US
refineries had picked up production, dealers said.


At 11:34 am (0334 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was down 19 cents to 62.94
dollars a barrel from 63.13 dollars in late US trades Wednesday.


Brent North Sea crude for June climbed six cents to 66.10
dollars.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) said in a weekly report
Wednesday that US gasoline reserves fell 2.7 million barrels last
week, the 10th consecutive decline and more than analyst
forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million barrels.


US crude oil inventories fell 1.0 million barrels last week,
confounding forecasts for a gain of 625,000 barrels.


This price supportive lead was offset however by increased
production at US refineries that eased concerns about a gasoline
supply shortage, analysts said.


"It was confusing more than anything else. Crude inventories and
gasoline inventories were both down although US refineries are
out of (their) maintenance (period)," Commonwealth Bank of
Australia commodities strategist Tobin Gorey said from Sydney.


With the May contract expiring later Thursday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, many investors were also waiting on the
sidelines, he added.


US refineries ran at 90.4 percent of capacity in the week to
April 13, up from 88.4 percent the previous week and against
market expectations of 88.9 percent.


"The improvement was significant and suggests refineries are
completing their turnaround from the maintenance season," AG
Edwards analyst Eric Wittenauer said.


"With that, some of the worry about a gasoline supply shortage
heading into summer's peak demand will likely ease," he said.


Dealers are watching gasoline stocks closely before the US summer
driving season, starting next month, when many Americans take to
the highways for their holidays.


The markets were also tracking geopolitical worries after Iran,
the world's fourth-biggest oil producer, refused to rule out
cutting crude exports if a standoff with the West over its
controversial nuclear programme intensified.


The UN atomic watchdog said Wednesday that Iran has started
feeding uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it
has installed more than 1,300 centrifuges in increasing defiance
of UN resolutions to halt such work.

