

Francois Bayrou, who unexpectedly emerged as a serious challenger
in France's presidential race, is a former Latin teacher who
believes the country must ditch its "prehistoric" left-right
political divide.


The 55-year-old leader of the Union for French Democracy (UDF)
has reaped spectacular success by offering a "third way" for
voters unhappy with Socialist Segolene Royal and rightwinger
Nicolas Sarkozy.


Described as the "neither/nor candidate," Bayrou proposes the
creation of a national unity government of moderates from both
left and right, a platform currently in place in neighbouring
Germany but which critics say is unviable in France.


Despite his claim to represent the centre, in the past the UDF
has consistently been an ally of the right and Bayrou has himself
been in governments led by the party of outgoing President
Jacques Chirac.


A father of six and a practising Catholic, Bayrou has also
written a best- selling biography of King Henri IV, who succeeded
in uniting France at the end of the 16th-century wars of
religion.


He was born into a farming family in the Bearn region of
southwest France, and makes much of his rural roots, carefully
cultivating his image as a country boy.


He likes to be photographed driving a tractor on the family farm
in his native Pyrenees village of Borderes, where he raises
thoroughbred horses.


Married at the age of 20, he combined teaching Latin with
farmwork after his father died in an accident. As a young man he
overcame a stutter by reciting poetry in front of a mirror.


Bayrou entered politics in 1979 under the wing of president
Valery Giscard D'Estaing, whose UDF party was a coalition of pro-
European and Christian Democrat groups offering a centre-right
alternative to the Gaullism of Chirac.


He was first elected to parliament from his Pyrenees region in
1986 and served as education minister between 1993 and 1997 in
governments led by members of Chirac's RPR party.


During his tenure as education minister, Bayrou was forced to
back down on education reform when one million people took to the
streets in 1994 to protest a plan to fund private schools.


In 1998 he became the UDF's president and took his first stab at
the presidency in 2002, winning 6.8 percent of the vote.


A stiff test came later the same year, when a majority of UDF
deputies defected to the newly-created Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP) -- today headed by Sarkozy.


Bayrou, who has remained in third place in the polls in recent
weeks, refused to give up his independence and held on to a rump
of 30 MPs.


Polls have shown that Sarkozy would beat Royal if the pair make
it to the run- off, to be held two weeks after Sunday's first
round, but he is not sure of winning if Bayrou makes it into the
second round.

