

Liverpool manager Rafa Benitez has told his side they must
qualify for next season's Champions League before they face
Chelsea in next week's all-English semi-final.


A 2-0 victory over Middlesbrough at Anfield on Wednesday lifted
Benitez's side into third spot in the table, two points above
Arsenal with four games remaining.


They will guarantee themselves a top-four finish and a place in
next season's final qualifier for the Champions League if they
defeat struggling Wigan at Anfield on Saturday - four days before
they face Chelsea in this season's semi- final first leg at
Stamford Bridge.


And Benitez believes it will give his side a lift if they head to
London next week knowing that they have already secured a place
in Europe's top knockout competition next season.


"If we win on Saturday then we are sure of a top four finish and
then we can think about the Champions League semi-final," said
Benitez, after two Steven Gerrard goals secured victory over
Middlesbrough.


"It's important to qualify for next season's Champions League as
soon as possible. If we can do it on Saturday then that would be
good."


Liverpool were far from their vintage best as they struggled to
break down mid- table Middlesbrough. Mali international Momo
Sissoko, who has yet to score for the club since joining from
Valencia in the summer of 2005, spurned two glorious chances in a
tedious first half before Gerrard came to the rescue.


In front of his international manager Steve McClaren, the England
midfielder broke the deadlock with a trademark 25-yard finish
before making it 2-0 from the penalty spot after Andrew Davies
was adjudged to have fouled Peter Crouch.


"We needed to be patient and keep the ball moving," added
Benitez, who claimed on Tuesday he had turned down the chance to
manage his former club Real Madrid.


"When the game was 0-0 I had confidence because we were creating
chances. As soon as we scored our first goal Middlesbrough were
going forward and we had more space."


Middlesbrough have not won at Anfield since 1976 yet Brazilian
midfielder Fabio Rochemback wasted a superb chance to give the
Teessiders a shock first half lead after a rare mistake by
England defender Jamie Carragher.


They have now failed to score in their last five Premiership away
games - a run stretching seven hours and 52 minutes.


Middlesbrough still require one win from their final four games
to guarantee Premiership survival.


They have a seven-point safety cushion with four games remaining
but their next game is away at leaders Manchester United on
Saturday.


Manager Gareth Southgate said he was positive about his team's
chances.


"I don't like losing, but the performance in general was
healthy," said Southgate. "I had to question a lot of things when
we lost 3-1 at home to Aston Villa on Saturday, but this was a
decent response.


"Gerrard's first goal was fantastic. Against this calibre of
opposition it only requires one lapse of concentration."

