

"You have blood on your hands," ranted the South Korean gunman
who killed at least 30 people at a Virginia campus, according to
a video he made before the shooting and released Wednesday.


The eerie message arrived Wednesday via express mail in a package
of photographs, videos and writings sent to NBC News on Monday,
the day of the shooting, network officials and police said
Wednesday.


The 9:01 am postmark on the package indicated that 23-year-old
Cho Seung-Hui may have paused between two shooting incidents on
campus to mail a carefully prepared package of 23 video files, an
1,800 word manifesto and 29 photographs.


"You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided
today," Cho said in one of video files, accompanied by numerous
still shots of him wielding pistols.


"But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner
and gave me only one option. The decision was yours. Now you have
blood on your hands that will never wash off."


He addressed the package to NBC news head Steve Capus. The
postmark shows he paid 14 dollars and the package was mailed from
a post office in Blacksburg where Virginia Tech university is
located.


NBC anchor Brian Williams described the contents as a "very long
multimedia manifesto."


The English major appears to be wearing different clothes and
filming himself in different locations in the various clips in
which he describes his anger and hatred for the wealthy.


"I didn't have to do this. I could have left. I could have fled.
But no, I will no longer run. It's not for me. For my children,
for my brothers and sisters that you (expletive). I did it for
them," Cho said on one of the videos.


"Do you know what it feels like to be torched alive? Do you know
what it feels like to be humiliated? You had everything you
wanted."


Capus described the written statement as "hard to follow, kind of
rambling ... In one instance he makes a vague reference to the
massacre and says 'This didn't have to happen.'


"He speaks about hatred," Capus said, adding it was "disturbing,
very angry, profanity-laced."


In one of the still pictures in the package, Cho brandishes a
pair of handguns, pointing them slightly outward as he stares
down the camera with a fierce expression.


In another, Cho points a silver pistol directly at the camera.


In some shots he is wearing a black baseball cap backwards and
the same short- sleeved khaki survival top and black vest that
was described by student witnesses who survived the shooting.


Virginia police superintendent Steve Flaherty told a news
conference the "correspondence included multiple photographs,
video and writings," and said the material had been turned over
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.


"This may be a very new critical component of this investigation.
We are in the process right now of attempting to analyze and
evaluate its worth," he said.


The South Korean native's fatal rampage at Virginia Tech
University on Monday marked the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


NBC said on its website that it believed the material had been
sent after a first shooting incident on Monday at the university
but before the mass shooting in a second school building.


"Sometime after he killed two people in a dormitory but before he
slaughtered 30 more in a classroom building Monday morning, Cho
Seung-Hui sent NBC News a rambling communication and videos about
his grievances," the network said.


The package was "timestamped in the two-hour window between
Monday's shootings," NBC news said on its website.


Police however still not confirmed whether Cho was responsible
for both shootings -- the first early in the morning in which two
students were killed and the second in which 30 people were
gunned down before Cho fatally shot himself.

