

Struggling South Africa fast bowler Makhaya Ntini is battling to
save his Caribbean World Cup dream.


The 29-year-old was dropped from the team for the crucial Super
Eights match against England here on Tuesday despite a Kensington
Oval pitch having both pace and bounce.


It was the first time in six years that Ntini, a powerful black
role model at home, had been axed from the team on anything other
than fitness grounds.


South Africa skipper Graeme Smith admitted it was very tough
dropping Ntini, his team's spearhead for many years but who has
been struggling in the ongoing tournament with just six wickets
in seven matches.


"It was a very difficult decision," Smith said after leading his
team to a crushing nine-wicket victory for a place in the semi-
finals.


"The discussion started after the last game. We were looking for
more throughout the 50 overs. Shaun Pollock and Charl Langeveldt
bowled superbly with the new ball and they are capable of changes
of pace at the end.


"Makhaya's a great team man and we'll be reassessing before the
next game."


South Africa play their semi-final in St Lucia next Wednesday,
probably against defending champions Australia, where the pitch
is expected to be low and slow.


If they qualify for the final they will return to Barbados where
the wicket has been favouring pacemen.


Ntini, the first black African cricketer to play for South
Africa, has so far conceded 4.65 runs an over, with only one
spell (2-26) against Sri Lanka in Guyana doing justice to his
stature.


But Ntini, who modelled his action on that of former West Indies
paceman Malcolm Marshall, has shown that he has it in him to defy
heavy odds.


On his return to the squad after being falsely accused of rape in
2000, he jolted New Zealand in Bloemfontein with a six-wicket
haul in the opening Test.


That Ntini had become a much-improved paceman was underlined when
he became the first South African to grab 10 wickets in a Lord's
Test in 2003.


Two years later, he finished with 13 wickets against the West
Indies in the Trinidad Test, the best by a South African.


Ntini was on song in the Champions Trophy in India last year as
he took eight wickets, including 5-21 in six fiery overs against
Pakistan at Mohali.


He has so far bagged 308 wickets in Tests and 237 in one-dayers
since making his international debut in 1998.


Defending champions Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and South
Africa have qualified for the World Cup semi-finals. The final
will be played here on April 28.

