

An agreement between the United States and Australia to swap
refugees held in offshore detention centres breaks international
law, Human Rights Watch said Thursday.


The exchange would involve genuine refugees held by Australia on
the remote Pacific island of Nauru and those held by the United
States at its naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.


"Refugees are human beings, not products that countries can
broker and trade," said Bill Frelick, refugee policy director for
the US-based rights group.


"The United States and Australia have signed a deal that bargains
with lives and flouts international law."


The mainly Asian refugees intercepted heading for Australia would
be considered for resettlement in the United States, while Cuban
and Haitian asylum-seekers hoping to live there could be
despatched to Australia.


The US State Department said the exchange would involve a maximum
of 200 people a year.


"The only conceivable reason for this 'refugee swap' is to deter
future asylum seekers from trying to reach the United States or
Australia by boat," said Frelick.


"Yet international refugee protection principles hold that
detention and similar measures should never be used solely as a
deterrent to other would-be refugees."


The deal was apparently designed to deter refugees by frustrating
their desire to join relatives and emigre communites and
transporting them "halfway around the world," Human Rights Watch
said in a statement.


US cities such as Miami have large Cuban populations and refugees
would be unlikely to view Australia as a favoured destination.


But critics say the swap scheme could entice more refugees to
head for Australia in the hope of being sent to the United
States.


"We are providing the greatest incentive, a trip and residence in
the United States for people who arrive in people-smuggling
operations off (Australia's) Christmas Island," said opposition
Labor party immigration spokesman Tony Burke.


Several opposition politicians and rights groups in Australia
have described the agreement as "bizarre."

