

Students were evacuated from the University of Minnesota
Wednesday following a bomb threat, the US university said on its
website.


The threat came amid heightened tensions following the deadliest
school shooting in US history Monday which left 33 people dead at
Virginia Tech University.


It was one of scores of threats lobbed at schools and
universities across the country in the aftermath of the Virginia
massacre.


Some of the threats specifically mentioned the massacre, while
others were vaguely worded or misunderstandings caused by nerves.


Bomb threats shut down universities in Texas and Tennessee on
Tuesday while a note threatening a shooting delivered by campus
mail caused the evacuation of a community college on the
outskirts of Phoenix, Arizona.


A Vancouver, Washington university shut down late Tuesday while
investigating threatening graffiti found in a library restroom.


The University of North Dakota in Fargo evacuated seven buildings
Tuesday after a student accidentally left his duffel bag at a bus
shelter.


A man with an umbrella caused a brief lockdown at the University
of Oklahoma when someone mistook the umbrella for a gun.


A high school in Montana was locked down and searched Tuesday
after a note was found in a restroom saying "The shooting would
start at Great Falls High at 12:30 and it would be worse than
Virginia Tech," the local newspaper Great Falls Tribune reported.


The note was found hours after a disturbed man had left bomb
threats on the school's answering machine but the threats turned
out to be unfounded.


In Louisiana, a high school was briefly locked down Tuesday after
hundreds of parents rushed to pick up their children when they
heard a threat had been made against the school.


Louisiana police arrested an emotionally disturbed man they deal
with on a regular basis who had handed a bizarre note making
reference to Virginia Tech and Bogalusa High School to a student
working at a local fast-food restaurant, the Bogalusa Daily News
reported.


A teenager in South Dakota was arrested after he made up a story
about seeing a gunman in his high school parking lot Tuesday, the
Rapid City Journal reported.


Police also locked down the town's elementary school after they
got a call that shots were heard in the area.

