

The ancient Central Asian sport of Kok-Boru, in which horsemen
wrestle over a headless goat, may not have caught on in the West,
but here it's a source of national pride -- and a wildcard in
national politics.


"Why does the United States promote football everywhere? Because
through football they spread American values, the American way of
life. Here it's the same with Kok-Boru," said Kemir Dyushekeyev,
assistant director of Kyrgyzstan's National Kok-Boru Federation.


Exactly what are the values spread by a sport where the ball is a
gutted goat carcass with its head removed and legs cut off at the
knees?


"Strength, bravery, competition, and camaraderie. There can be no
Kok-Boru without camaraderie," Dyushekeyev said.


Or without strength. At the start of the game, eight players on
horseback race to get their hands on a goat carcass that weighs
between 30 and 40 kilograms (66 and 88 pounds), which they
usually haul up by one of its truncated limbs.


They whip and punch each other for control of the goat, sometimes
passing it to teammates, until one player breaks away and gallops
across a 200-meter (650-foot) field to toss it into a stone ring.


"It's in our blood to play, it's in our genes," said Bakyt
Tabakriyev, one of the organisers of a recent tournament in
Nizhny Orok, a village 15 kilometres (nine miles) from the
capital Bishkek.


"This game didn't start yesterday, it started 2,000-3,000 years
ago," he said.


And it's not as singular as it might sound. Kok-Boru is played
under various names throughout Central Asia. Regional tournaments
bring in national teams from Afghanistan, China, Kazakhstan,
Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.


It almost made the jump to the United States in 2001 after a
group of US rodeo riders traveled to Kyrgyzstan to display their
skills. Kyrgyz horsemen were set to reciprocate with a Kok-Boru
exhibition, but were denied US visas after the September 11,
2001, terror attacks, Dyushekeyev said.


"Americans would have loved it!" he said. "It's a harsh sport,
but so is football."


One difference is protective gear, or the lack of it. Most Kok-
Boru players are shielded from their competitors' whips and fists
-- not to mention horses' hooves when they fall from the saddle
-- only by World War II-era Soviet tank helmets.


Play is supposed to stop if a fallen player is in danger of being
trampled, but "there are serious injuries all the time."


Then there's the whole goat carcass issue.


"Some foreigners may turn up and say, 'It's so cruel! Cutting up
a goat to play with -- how awful!'" tournament organiser
Tabakriyev said, his tone showing minimal sympathy for animal
rights activists.


"But we accept life as it is. We look at it as a sacrifice," he
said.


It was hard to find any trace of religiosity as the players spat
curses in Russian and thrashed everything within whip's length
amid a huge cloud of dust.


The game's political element, however, was far clearer.


The week-long Nizhny Orok tournament was sponsored by the Ata
Meken opposition political party, and was timed to match
opposition rallies in nearby Bishkek that were aimed at bringing
down President Kurmanbek Bakiyev.


If police tried to break up the rally, hundreds of Kok-Borus
players from Nizhny Orok and other villages would gallop into
Bishkek to take them on, said Tabakriyev, also a member of Atam
Bek.


"The only thing holding us back right now are the party heads,"
he said, explaining he had joined the anti-Bakiyev opposition
after being fired from the presidential guard service.


"We're waiting for the word."


The president had taken note. The Prosecutor General's office
issued a warning to the organisers not to interfere, and a series
of government officials bumped up the potholed roads in their
Mercedes to consult with opposition leaders at the tournament.


The political implications of horseback goat-tossing also worried
the Soviets, who imposed a ban on Kok-Boru in the 1950s that
lasted until Kyrgyzstan declared independence in 1991.


"They said it was to preserve the fields, or some such nonsense,"
Dyushekeyev said. "The real reason was that when a man sits on a
horse, he feels free. And a free man can think all kinds of
things."


In spite of a deeply-rooted horse-riding culture in Central Asia,
the cost of raising and transporting horses is an obstacle to
Kok-Boru's resurgence in Kyrgyzstan, which has a per capita gross
domestic product of only about 2,000 dollars (1,480 euros).


A first-rate Kok-Boru horse, meanwhile, can cost from 10,000 to
15,000 dollars.


"We do what we can to help. We make sure even the last-place
teams get enough prize money to cover their trip home," said
Tabyldy Asygaliyev, spokesman for the International Kok-Boru
Federation.


The financial difficulties do not dampen his optimism about the
potential international appeal of the sport.


Asygaliyev told how Len Hemeniuk, who heads the Kyrgyz operations
of Canadian metals giant Cameco, was so enthralled after watching
his first Kok-Boru game that he paid it the ultimate Canadian
compliment.


"Do you know what he said afterward?" Asygaliyev asked, beaming.
"'Next to Kok- Boru, ice hockey is child's play'."

