

More than 600 business executives and environmental experts
gathered Thursday in Singapore to thrash out ways the corporate
world can help tackle the threat of climate change.


The two-day summit is the first major international conference
focusing on business and the environment in Asia, according to
the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) which is co-organising the
event.


It comes two days after the UN Security Council held a
groundbreaking debate on the security implications of climate
change.


Delegates in Singapore plan to examine how the private sector,
governments and non-government organisations can cooperate to
ensure development balances economic, social and environmental
factors, organisers said.


UNEP organised the event with the UN Global Compact, an
initiative that brings companies together with UN and other
agencies to support environmental and social principles.


"The private sector is now becoming an active partner in
environmental protection," Singapore's Minister for the
Environment and Water Resources, Yaacob Ibrahim, said in his
opening address.


"Many governments and businesses have also started to realise
that environmental protection and economic growth can go hand in
hand," he added.


"Companies are being more frequently judged on the basis of their
environmental stewardship."


Yaacob warned that the need for energy to fuel economic growth
has further increased the risk of unsustainable energy production
and waste management problems.


"In Asia, we could see an increase in the number of nuclear power
installations. We would need to fully address the safety of
nuclear power plants, and ensure that nuclear installations meet
the highest operational safety requirements," he said.


Indonesia is pursuing plans to develop nuclear energy.


A key UN report released this month warned that billions would
face a higher risk of water scarcity and millions more would
likely go hungry as damage to the Earth's weather systems from
greenhouse gases changed rainfall patterns, powered up storms and
boosted the risk of drought, flooding and water stress.


More than 1.2 billion people, or about one-fifth of the world's
population, lack access to drinking water, conference organisers
said, warning that without any action this could rise to 2.3
billion people by 2023.


Among other subjects for discussion are "green investment and
financing," sustainable tourism and environmentally-sound
building and construction.


A special session on Friday will be devoted to discussing
solutions to the forest-fire haze that blankets parts of
Southeast Asia each year.


Last year a report commissioned by the British government warned
that climate change could bring economic disaster on the scale of
the world wars and the 1930s Great Depression unless urgent
action was taken.


Among the organisations to be represented at the Singapore
meeting are the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), World Resources
Institute and the Carbon Disclosure Fund.


Scheduled speakers include Kirsi Sormunen, Nokia's vice president
of environmental affairs, Diana Bell, a senior vice president at
Hewlett-Packard, Greenpeace International director Steve Sawyer
and actress and environmental activist Daryl Hannah.

