

Facing calls to step down, US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales
testifies Thursday before lawmakers on the sacking of eight
federal prosecutors, amid charges he led a White House political
purge.


But the embattled top US prosecutor has insisted he has nothing
to hide, and the US administration has released thousands of
pages of documents in a bid to show there was no wrongdoing.


"I know that I did not, and would not, ask for a resignation of
any individual in order to interfere with or influence a
particular prosecution for partisan political gain," Gonzales
said Sunday.


He is to appear before a congressional committee which is trying
to shed light on last year's sackings.


The White House has staunchly backed Gonzales, who has been an
advisor to President George W. Bush since the days when the US
leader was the governor of Texas.


"The attorney general has the confidence of the president,"
Deputy White House Press Secretary Dana Perino repeated to
reporters on Monday.


"I think that the attorney general has answered and been fully
responsive to the Congress," she said.


Most of the attorneys were sacked in one fell swoop last
December, ostensibly for poor performance, in some cases during
sensitive investigations.


Members of Congress learned however that all eight had received
good performance reviews -- fueling allegations that the
dismissals were politically motivated.


Gonzales declared Sunday that he was "committed to assuring the
Congress and the American public that nothing improper occurred
here."


And he added that he "never sought to mislead or deceive"
Congress or the American people about the firings, which he said
he still believes were "appropriate."


There are 93 US attorneys across the United States, each of whom
is appointed by the president and charged with bringing to court
federal criminal and civil crime cases.


Federal US attorneys are supposed to prosecute crimes independent
of political considerations, but critics allege the eight fired
prosecutors were sacked because they failed to press their
investigations of Democrats, or because they appeared to be too
zealous in prosecuting Republicans.


Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the top Republican on the
panel told US television Sunday that Gonzales had a "steep hill
to climb" to convince lawmakers that he deserved to keep his job
-- although ultimately it is the president who must decide
whether he stays or goes.


Senators are also expected to concentrate on the possible role in
the firings played by Karl Rove, Bush's chief political adviser.


The controversy has led to the disclosure about the disappearance
of relevant White House e-mails.


Democrats are now asking if some White House officials, beginning
with Rove, may have destroyed the documents to prevent them from
falling in the hands of Congress.

