

China was due to report yet more blistering growth figures
Thursday amid an emerging consensus that government attempts to
apply the brakes have been far too weak to slow the runaway
economy.


Even before the widely-anticipated release of first-quarter data
at 3:00 pm (0700 GMT), preliminary statistics suggest fixed asset
investment was picking up dangerously and one official went on
the record to warn against overheating.


"The people who have studied the figures think that risks of
overheating are emerging and that the overheating could be as
serious as last year," Geng Qinzeng, a National Bureau of
Statistics official, told the Nanfang Daily.


The data is normally released in the morning but for the first
time in recent years, the figures are now being put out after the
stock market has closed for the day.


Chinese stocks have been roaring ahead to successive record highs
as more and more investors pile in looking for quick profits and
the change in timing may be intended to avoid any excessive
reaction, good or bad, to the expected strong data.


China's economy, the world's fourth-largest, expanded by 10.7
percent last year, the fourth consecutive year of double-digit
growth, after a gain of 10.4 percent in the three months to
December.


The pace likely picked up in the first three months of 2007, with
some forecasts running at more than 11 percent growth, suggesting
a raft of cooling measures have so far had at best only a
marginal impact, analysts said.


"The recent rebound confirms our view that these policies have
had only a temporary effect as a result of their piecemeal
nature," said Sun Mingchun, a Hong Kong-based economist with
Lehman Brothers.


"The government had promised a comprehensive list of policies and
reforms to rebalance the economy but has so far implemented only
a few, with tweaks here and there."


Lehman Brothers recently raised its forecast for first-quarter
economic growth to 10.5 percent from 10.1 percent, with other
estimates for the first three months of the year running as high
as 11.2 percent.


The trend seemed confirmed by the government's announcement
Tuesday that fixed asset investment in urban areas, a key growth
driver, rose 25.3 percent in the first quarter.


That compared with a 23.4 percent rise for the first two months
of the year, according to government figures published earlier,
indicating that investment picked up in March. In 2006, expansion
was at 24 percent.


The apparent pick-up happened despite a series of measures that
China has adopted -- including three interest rate hikes since
early 2006, with the most recent one coming in March -- in a
tightening up on liquidity in the banks.


The government has also taken steps to shrink its trade surplus
by reducing tax incentives for exporters and making it more
attractive for companies to import certain products, to little
apparent effect.


The surplus in the first three months of 2007 was 46.6 billion
dollars, about double the figure in the same period of 2006,
according to data released last week.

