

The United States called on Nigeria's opposition parties
Wednesday not to carry out a threatened boycott of presidential
elections this weekend in Africa's largest democracy.


But the State Department also called on Nigeria's government to
take "immediate and comprehensive" action to prevent alleged
electoral misconduct and irregularities ahead of Saturday's
polls.


And it applauded a last-minute Nigerian Supreme Court ruling
lifting a ban on a popular vice president and rival to outgoing
President Olusegun Obasanjo from running for the presidency.


State Department spokeswoman Julie Reside said the US government
had been urging officials of Obasanjo's government "to address
shortcomings" in electoral preparations.


"The United States takes seriously allegations of electoral
misconduct and urges the full investigation of irregularities,"
she said, echoing similar concerns expressed by European
governments.


Nigerian opposition parties and election observers complained of
widespread fraud and violence during a first round of elections
last weekend for the governors of Nigeria's 36 federal states.


Eighteen opposition parties have since called for the regional
elections to be annulled and Saturday's presidential ballot be
postponed, threatening to boycott the vote if their demands are
not met.


Obasanjo refused to delay the presidential ballot and Reside said
Washington did not back the boycott call.


"We urge Nigeria's political parties to adhere to the
constitutional process and to participate in these elections,"
she said.


"Evidence of wrongdoing should be brought to the attention of
authorities and all parties should cooperate in the peaceful
resolution of disputes through appropriate legal means," she
said.


Reside also welcomed a Supreme Court ruling on Monday to
reinstate Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Obasanjo's estranged
deputy, on the ballot.


Nigeria's election commission had barred Abubakar from running
due to corruption allegations against him in a move widely seen
as aimed at protecting the ruling party's candidate and election
favorite, Umaru Yar'Adua.


"We applaud the government of Nigeria's commitment to respect the
Supreme Court's April 16 ruling that the National Electoral
Commission did not have the power to disqualify candidates and to
include the vice president's name on the ballot in time for the
election," she said.


Saturday's presidential vote is expected to usher in the first
civilian-to- civilian government handover in coup-prone Nigeria
since the oil-rich west African nation gained independence from
Britain in 1960.

