

Greater use of biofuels as an alternative to fossil fuels will
threaten tropical rain forests, biodiversity and food security,
environmentalists warned at a two- day summit on biofuels that
wrapped up Wednesday in Madrid.


It will lead to huge areas of forest to be cleared while food
crops will be replaced by the plantation of more profitable
"energy crops" like palm and soya, green groups Ecologists in
Action and Via Campesina said in a report distributed at the
event.


"Greater use of biofuels will lead to intensive monocultures in
the most vulnerable and most ecological areas of the plant," said
the report which called biofuels a "serious threat" to the
planet.


The European Union, one of the world's top producers of biofuels,
has committed itself to stepping up the use of biofuels as a way
to cut emissions of greenhouse gases that are believed to
contribute to climate change.


In January the European Commission, the executive arm of the EU,
set a new target for its 27 member countries to replace 10
percent of petrol and diesel with biofuels by 2020.


The EU previously had a target for its member states to replace
5.75 percent of petrol and diesel with biofuels by 2010.


To meet its newest goal, experts say Europe will have to import
more raw materials from nations like Brazil, Indonesia and
Malaysia.


Biofuel producers taking part at the summit, which organizers
said was the first on the topic to be held in Europe, said they
were aware of the risks that the intensive production of biofuels
carries but were studying solutions.


Dutch biofuels expert Winfried Rijssenbeek pointed to jatropha, a
tropical shrub which produces seeds with an oil content of up to
40 percent, as an environmentally friendly source of biofuel.


"It is not eatable and therefore does not compete with the food
sector," he said at the summit.


Jatropha also has the advantage that it can be grown in very poor
soils that are not suitable to other crops, is drought resilient
and can help in the fight against desertification, Rijssenbeek
added.


Indonesia, a major producer of palm oil used to make biofuels,
plans to have 1.5 million hectares of jatropha under cultivation
by 2010, as much land as is dedicated to harvesting palm oil,
said Achmad Suryana a representative of the Southeast Asian
nation's agriculture ministry.


But environmentalists like Via Campesina say a single plant will
not solve all of the problems created by biofuels. What is needed
instead, they argue, is "a drastic reduction in the consumption
of energy."


More than 200 biofuel experts, government representatives and
researchers took part in the summit, which had the backing of
Spain's industry ministry and was organised by German consultant
Survey Marketing and Consulting.


Organizers hope the summit will become an annual event.

