

The struggling dollar faced renewed selling pressure Wednesday as
sterling jumped to a 26-year high and the euro topped 1.36
dollars amid fresh concerns about US economic prospects.


The euro reached as high as 1.3616 dollars before falling back to
1.3607 at 2100 GMT against 1.3564 late Tuesday in New York. The
single currency neared its all- time high of 1.3666 dollars hit
on December 30, 2004


The pound struck 2.0133 dollars to reach its highest reading
since June 1981. It later traded at 2.083 dollars against 2.0063
on Tuesday.


Sterling's all-time high against the dollar is 2.4546 dollars,
reached in 1980.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 118.66 yen after
118.90 on Monday and at 1.2036 Swiss francs from 1.2086.


The weakened dollar "reflects a combination both of concerns
about the US economy ... and at the same time the contrasting
strength of the European economy which is growing much more
rapidly," Capital Economics analyst Jonathan Loynes said in
London.


"Those concerns have been reflected in expectations for interest
rates," he added.


Camilla Sutton, currency strategist at Scotiabank, said the
market is expecting rate cuts in the US despite rhetoric to the
contrary from Federal Reserve officials.


A softer-than-expected report on inflation "has relieved some
fears that the Fed might not have the ability to cut rates in
2007," Sutton said.


"Our view continues to be that on the back of a slowing economy
the Fed will cut rates twice in the third quarter and the dollar
will be weak leading into these cuts."


Owing to strengthening European economies, particularly in
Germany, the market is forecasting higher interest rates for the
eurozone and Britain in the coming months.


"Pound strength continues to build following yesterday's
(Tuesday's) historic move above 2.00 dollars on the back of the
stronger than expected" British inflation data, ABN Amro analyst
Peter Frank said.


The inflation data increased expectations that British interest
rates will soon be increased to contain activity and price rises.


Meanwhile the eurozone, and particularly the German economy, is
showing unexpectedly strong growth despite the strength of the
euro, which can increase the price of exports on foreign markets
and dampen overall economic activity.


The European Commission last week forecast that the eurozone
would keep up a quick pace of growth while broadly sticking to
previous estimates.


The International Monetary Fund said last week the United States
was experiencing a "growth pause."


In the United States and Britain, the key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currencies
and increasing their values on the foreign exchange market.


Analysts expect the Bank of England to increase British interest
rates by a quarter-point to 5.50 percent in May and further still
before the end of 2007 after official data published Tuesday
showed British annual inflation had surged to a decade-high above
3.0 percent in March.


John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service, said
the Group of Seven finance ministers last weekend appeared to
suggest they would do little to stem big currency movements.


The G7 "gave the impression that finance ministers were tacitly
aproving of  any further slide of the dollar excchange rate,"
Lonski said.


David Kotok at Cumberland Advisors said the weak dollar is a
reflection of the status of the US as the "world's biggest debtor
nation" but that the low value of the currency will do little to
spark the economy.


"Marginally, a cheaper currency help exporters," he said.
"However in the US the bulk of the economy is services and
therefore the total macroeconomic impact is relatively small
compared with a goods-related economy."

