

Indonesia could build a major port, to be used mainly for
transhipment services, at the northernmost end of Sumatra island
in cooperation with Ireland's Dublin Port Co., an official said
Thursday.


Dublin Port and an Indonesian agency managing the area on Sabang
Island, some 20 miles (30 kilometres) offshore from Banda Aceh
town in northern Sumatra, have reached broad agreement on the
project which could cost more than 400 million dollars.


"In principle, all matters have been agreed on and the agreement
only remains to be formalized," said Saiful Achmad, head of the
Sabang Zone Management Agency (BPKS.)


Achmad said he hoped Sabang Hub International Port, the joint-
venture company to run the project, could be formed one month
after the official signing.


"We hope that the venture could already begin to operate in late
July or early August," he told AFP.


The new company, equally owned by BPKS and Dublin Port, will
manage the port for 50 years, extending Sabang's current
180-metre long quay to 2,500 metres in the next five years.


"Our port will also be the deepest in the world with a depth of
22 meters," Achmad said, adding it could act as a distribution
hub to other ports, including the region's three main but
shallower ones -- Singapore and Malaysia's Tanjung Pelepas and
Port Klang.


"The concept is for Sabang to become a trans-shipment hub."


The Indonesian government and the Aceh administration would pay
for half of the project cost while the rest would have to be
sought by the joint venture.


The Indonesian government declared Sabang a free trade zone in
1963 but revoked its status in 1985 as Jakarta battled a growing
insurgency in the province. The zone was then reinstated in 2000.


The conflict in Aceh claimed at least 15,000 lives but separatist
rebels dropped their claim for independence in return for more
autonomy under a 2005 peace deal.


The pact was signed after the 2004 Asian tsunami killed 168,000
people in Aceh and forced the rebels and the government to
reassess the conflict.

