

Bank of Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui said on Thursday that the
Japanese economy was growing at a moderate pace helped by solid
consumer spending and a gradual easing of deflationary pressures.


"Japan's economy is expanding moderately, as exports keep
increasing ... while corporate capital investment continues to
rise," Fukui said in a speech at a meeting of the central bank's
branch managers.


"Consumer spending is resilient as incomes of salaried workers
are gradually increasing," he added.


Looking ahead, Fukui said the Japanese economy "will be highly
likely to sustain a long-lasting recovery, as a virtuous cycle of
production, income and expenditure will continue."


Fukui said core consumer prices were expected to remain flat for
the time being due to cooling oil prices.


"But in the longer term, consumer prices are likely to continue
rising."


Japan's core consumer prices fell 0.1 percent in February from a
year earlier, the first decline for 10 months as the economy
struggles to shake off deflation.


Fukui gave few clues on when the BoJ may next raise interest its
benchmark lending rate from 0.5 percent, where it has been since
February.


"The Bank of Japan will closely watch developments in the economy
and prices and manage monetary policy appropriately, with a view
to helping (Japan) to achieve sustained growth under stable
prices," Fukui said.


The yen rose against the dollar Thursday on speculation of a
possible early interest rate rise by the BoJ, trading at 117.86
yen in Tokyo afternoon trade from 118.66 late Wednesday in New
York.


"There is a speculation that the Bank of Japan will go for
another interest rate hike in May," said Shigeru Nakane, senior
client manager at Resona Bank.


Talk of a possible rate rise increased after Japan's tertiary
index, which measures spending in the services sector, increased
1.0 percent in February from January, rising for the second
straight month, dealers said.


But some market watchers doubted the chances of another BoJ rate
hike ahead of the July upper house elections and after February's
drop in consumer prices.

