

Umaru Yar'Adua, governor of the strict Muslim state of Katsina
and the personal choice of President Olusegun Obasanjo, is widely
tipped to win in Saturday's presidential election despite
widespread doubts about his health.


Quiet, discreet, modest and honest are the words used time and
time again to describe this man of 55, whose profile is
diametrically opposed to that of the average Nigerian politician.
His campaign posters boast of "honesty, integrity, humility and
courage".


"It (election victory) is not going to be a walkover. There'll be
resistance, sometimes real resistance", he said recently in an
interview with AFP.


In the same interview he promised to fight corruption, a major
issue in a country regularly ranked among the most corrupt on the
planet by global watchdog Transparency International.


"If I am elected I will immediately put in place a mechanism to
ensure total transparency and the rule of law", he said.


Yar'Adua has a track record of financial prudence, public service
and accountability as he is among the few governors recently
absolved of corruption by the country's anti-graft agency. On
being elected governor of Katsina in 1999, Yar'Adua immediately
made public his assets.


Katsina State, one of twelve northern Nigerian states to apply
Islamic Sharia law, first made world headlines when an Islamic
court there sentenced an unmarried mother, Amina Lawal, to death
by stoning in 2002.


Amid an international outcry, the case was later thrown out by a
higher court.


Yar'Adua, then governor of Katsina, refused to interfere in the
case and told AFP that if elected he would maintain this same
policy of non-intervention in any similar cases.


This father of six is the firm favourite to win Saturday's
presidential vote. Many Nigerians however are concerned about his
failing health. Right in the middle of the presidential campaign
he had to be flown to Germany for emergency medical treatment
early March.


Yar'Adua challenges those who bring up the subject of ill-health
to 12 straight sets of squash.


But a question that the opposition brings up on a regular basis
is why did Obasanjo, knowing full well that Yar'Adua had health
problems, select him as presidential candidate.


Newspaper columnists have been questioning whether the real
candidate is Yar'Adua or Obasanjo, who last year failed to obtain
a modification of the constitution allowing him to run for a
third term.


Until he emerged victorious in last year's ruling Peoples
Democratic Party primaries, Yar'Adua had virtually no public
profile and was known only as the younger brother of the late
prominent politician and strategist, retired General Shehu Musa
Yar'Adua.


Yar'Adua senior was Obasanjo's deputy and confidant when he was
military head of state between 1976 and 1979.


Both men later went to prison under Sani Abacha. Yar'Adua senior
died there.


"Obasanjo appreciates loyalty. General Yar'Adua did not
disappoint him as his deputy," political commentator Gbenga Aliu
told AFP.


Obasanjo's support for the governor of Katsina is a pay-back for
the loyalty shown by his elder brother, Aliu said.

