

Departing Ireland coach Adrian Birrell says the side need to
avoid clashes with English counties by playing more out-of-season
games if they are to build on their impressive World Cup debut.


With Ireland's home season running alongside the traditional
English programme of April-September, the likes of Niall O'Brien
(Northamptonshire) and Eoin Morgan (Middlesex) are at the call of
their full-time paymasters rather than what is still a largely
amateur set-up at national level.


And with fast bowler Boyd Rankin at Derbyshire and batsman
William Porterfield set to join Gloucestershire, Birrell said
radical thinking was required if Ireland were to have a chance of
regularly fielding their strongest side between now and the next
World Cup in 2011.


"Irish cricket should play out of (the English) season where
there is no clash," Birrell said as Ireland's World Cup ended
disappointingly on Wednesday.


They were bowled out for just 77 by Sri Lanka in an eight-wicket
defeat.


"We're never at full strength then because three or four of our
best players are playing for the counties," added the South
African.


"It's a tricky one. On the one hand, you want to piggy back onto
the counties with the professional game, on the other, you want
to have all your players available for every match."


He cited Ireland's forthcoming Intercontinental Cup final, the
leading four-day competition for non-Test nations, against
Canada, in Leicester, central England, next month as an example
of the problems Ireland faced.


"We are the defending champions, but we won't be at full strength
because the counties will have some of our players. I don't see a
solution other than playing out of season," added Birrell, who
said Ireland could play in the United Arab Emirates, Bangladesh
and Zimbabwe.


Another long-term issue for Ireland, who beat Pakistan and
Bangladesh at the World Cup, is their best players trying to
qualify for England so they can play Test cricket.


Opening batsman Ed Joyce, whose runs helped Ireland qualify for
the Caribbean, represented England in this World Cup having
switched allegiance.


"Players who are ambitious want to play cricket at the highest
level as in Test cricket," said Birrell.


"It will be hard to stop those players but I do think there's got
to be a strategic decision to hold on to their players.


"Certainly making them semi or fully professional is a route. But
this is all new, we've only recently got into the Super Eights
and the world rankings.


"All of these are problems that are good problems to have and I'm
sure the Irish Cricket Union will be attending to that very
seriously."


On Wednesday, Ireland were skittled out in under 28 overs by fast
bowler Farveez Maharoof (four for 25) and off-spin star Muttiah
Muralitharan (four for 19).


"I'm feeling a bit disappointed with our performance," said
Birrell, who will be succeeded as Ireland coach by former West
Indies batsman Phil Simmons. "Obviously preparing for
Muralitharan is very difficult. But we're not the only side that
have come unstuck against him and we won't be the last either.


"But I'm looking over at my stint with Irish cricket of five
years, not just one match. We've moved forward and there's a
great bunch of players now who are well-placed to take the game
even further and I'm very proud of that."

