

The Canterbury Crusaders lead the Super 14 field into a weekend
dominated by do- or-die local derbies that will effectively
determine the true contenders for the play-offs.


Five of the seven matches will have a distinct bearing on the
outcome of the competition, and three involve crucial domestic
clashes in New Zealand, Australia and South Africa.


The front-running Crusaders are at home to a desperate Wellington
Hurricanes, who still harbour hopes of making the semi-finals
despite lying eighth, four points shy of the vital fourth place
with three rounds remaining.


There are various permutations between the Hurricanes and a
chance for glory, all involving the Waikato Chiefs, Northern
Bulls, and ACT Brumbies, who are locked fourth-equal, one point
ahead of the Western Force.


The Brumbies and Force, who carry Australia's slim hopes of a
semi-final berth, will be looking to knock each other out of
contention when they clash in Canberra.


The Bulls' hopes of staying alive depend on emerging successfully
from the Golden Lions den in the South African local derby in
Johannesburg.


Of the other leading contenders, the Auckland Blues start their
arduous three- match tour in South Africa against the Western
Stormers while the Chiefs are at home to the third-placed Coastal
Sharks.


When the Crusaders and Hurricanes take the field in Jade Stadium,
in a repeat of last year's fog-bound final, the stakes will be
high for both sides.


The rampant Crusaders need to finish the round-robin on top to be
assured of a home semi-final and the prospect of hosting the
final.


For the Hurricanes, who have won just three of their 14 clashes
with the Crusaders, another defeat would likely rule them out of
the play-offs.


"The game and the position we're in and the respect we have for
the Crusaders is enough motivation to get up for this one," said
Hurricanes coach Colin Cooper.


But he downplayed a warning by flanker Jerry Collins of a titanic
"hammer and tongs" struggle up front, saying they would have to
be a "bit smarter" than just resorting to the physical stuff.


While the Blues lie second to the Crusaders on points
differential, their 25-32 wrestle with the Sharks last week
showed chinks in their armour.


Their chance to regain momentum comes against the 12th placed
Stormers, with the incentive of knowing that a loss, coupled with
a Sharks victory against the Waikato Chiefs, would push them down
to third.


The tour only gets tougher for the Blues with a clash next week
against the Northern Bulls, who should firm-up their play-off
credentials despite being away to the Lions on Saturday.


The confident Sharks head to Waikato Stadium, where the Chiefs
are looking to become the first South African side to complete a
"grand slam" against the five New Zealand franchises.


"The key to beating the All Blacks or any New Zealand team is to
get into their faces and not to give them respect," said
Springboks psychologist Henning Gericke, who is helping to
prepare the Sharks.


"We need to make sure our attitudes are right and the result will
take care of itself against the Chiefs."


The Brumbies-Force match-up is not just important for the two
Australian sides but for Australian rugby as a whole, according
to the rival coaches.


"It's important one of us gets a win out of this so that
Australia is represented at the business end of the season,"
Force coach John Mitchell said, as his side looks for a way out
of a slump that has seen them concede more than 100 points in the
past two weeks.


Brumbies coach Laurie Fisher described the match as "like a final
for both teams".


In the remaining matches of the weekend, the Otago Highlanders
travel to Sydney to play the New South Wales Waratahs, while the
Central Cheetahs are in Brisbane against the Queensland Reds.

