

The deadliest school shooting in US history has fueled a
simmering debate on gun control -- an emotive issue with strong
voices on both sides.


Herewith a fact box on federal, state and local laws governing
gun ownership, which the pro-gun lobby insists is a right
enshrined in the US constitution under the second amendment.


-- Federal law requires licensed gun sellers to conduct a
background check on anyone buying a gun. The law prevents
convicted criminals, drug addicts, domestic abusers and the
mentally incompetent, among others, from buying guns.


The so-called Brady Law was named after James Brady, one of late
president Ronald Reagan's assistants, who was left disabled after
being shot in an assassination attempt on Reagan in 1981. The law
came into effect in 1994.


The law has been credited with preventing hundreds of thousands
of weapons from passing into criminals' hands.


Loopholes in the law allow private dealers at gun shows in
certain states to sell weapons without having to conduct
background checks.


Such shows can operate on a "no questions asked, cash-and-carry"
basis.


The current system makes it easy for criminals and even juveniles
to buy as many guns as they want at gun shows, including assault
weapons, according to the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.


Sellers are not required to keep records on gun show sales,
making it almost impossible for police to trace such weapons if
they are used in a crime, according to the campaign group.


-- The Gun Control Act came into force in 1968 after the
assassinations of civil rights leader Martin Luther King and New
York senator Robert Kennedy. It bans the sale of firearms across
state lines, except for licensed dealers.


-- A federal law banning the sale of semi-automatic assault
weapons came into effect in 1994 but expired in 2004.


-- State laws vary widely, with some preventing anyone under the
age of 18 from buying any kind of gun, making adults criminal
responsible for weapons used by juveniles, or banning instant gun
sales to prevent crimes of passion.


Other states require owners to undergo special training, demand
firearms be registered or have laws banning the carrying of
concealed weapons.


In the state of Virginia, where Monday's university shooting
happened, the minimum age to buy a rifle or shotgun stands at 18,
while handguns can only be sold to those aged 21 or over,
according to state police.


-- A third level of legislation exists at local and city level,
for example in New York City, which has some of the most
restrictive gun laws in the United States, only allowing certain
permit holders to own guns.


-- The second amendment of the US constitution, which asserts
that "the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be
infringed," is often at the center of any attempt to introduce
new gun control legislation.


While the pro-gun lobby argues that any attempt to control gun
ownership potentially undermines a constitutional right, some of
those in favor of tighter restrictions say the amendment is an
anachronism that was meant only to refer to militia at the time
the document was drafted more than 200 years ago.

