

Cambodia's national police chief Hok Lundy Thursday dismissed
accusations of rampant rights abuses, amid a growing row over his
pending trip to the United States for counter-terrorism talks.


The country's top police officer is to meet later this week with
FBI officials in Washington.


But the trip has been met with outrage from rights advocates, who
blame Hok Lundy for a string of abuses, from human and drugs
trafficking to involvement in extrajudicial killings and a deadly
1997 grenade attack against anti-government demonstrators.


"Treating Hok Lundy like a respected law enforcement officer is
something out of 'Alice in Wonderland'," said Brad Adams, Asia
director of the New York-based Human Rights Watch, earlier this
week.


"He represents the absolute worst that Cambodia has to offer and
should never have been given a US visa."


Hok Lundy called the allegations against him political, saying
rights groups were colluding with Cambodia's opposition
politicians to "defame" him.


"The report is not true ... they want to attack me because I am
in the government," he told local media, adding that the FBI's
invitation was a sign of the US government's confidence in his
work.


"The US government thinks that I am a good law enforcement
leader," he was reported Thursday as saying.


The furore over Hok Lundy's visit has sent US officials
scrambling to defend the talks.


The US State Department said Tuesday there were "compelling
reasons" to host Hok Lundy, although spokesman Sean McCormack
acknowledged that the police chief had been refused a US visa in
the past due to human trafficking accusations.


But he said that there were no "legal bars" preventing Hok Lundy
from receiving a visa this time and that authorities had made a
"policy judgement" to let him attend the meeting with the FBI.


US officials have praised Cambodia for its efforts in
Washington's "War on Terror," most notably the 2004 prosecution
of several people accused of being members of the Islamic
militant group Jemaah Islamiyah.


The trials were slammed by critics who said the court had rushed
to judgement for political reasons, despite a lack of evidence.

