

Poland's top court said Wednesday it could rule next month on
whether a government campaign to expose former secret police
collaborators breaches the country's constitution.


"I think the verdict will be issued on May 11, although it is
equally possible that it may be adjourned," Judge Jerzy Stepien,
head of the Constitutional Tribunal, told reporters.


May 11 is just four days before a deadline for officials and
people in a host of professions to file declarations in which
they are meant to come clean about their past.


Almost two decades after the fall of communism, Poland last month
kicked off a new effort to expose people with links to the
loathed Sluzba Bezpieczenstwa (SB) secret police, which was a
bulwark of the old regime.


A new law which came into force on March 15 requires some 700,000
Poles to reveal if they had ties with the SB.


Previous rules in force since 1997 applied to around 30,000 of
Poland's 38.2 million people, including lawmakers, government
ministers and judges.


The new law widens the net to cover academics, journalists,
managers of state- owned firms, school principals, diplomats and
lawyers.


They will be required to fill out declarations saying whether or
not they collaborated with the SB -- or face the sack.


Their statements will be checked against the former secret police
archives, which are held by the National Remembrance Institute
(IPN), a body created in 1998 to prosecute Nazi and communist-era
crimes in Poland.


The IPN will also publish the files of affected individuals on
the Internet.


The legislation was masterminded by Lech Kaczynski and his
identical twin, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, whose
conservative Law and Justice party came to power in 2005.


The Kaczynskis, who were members of the underground opposition
before 1989, made throwing off the legacy of communism into a
major plank of their manifesto.


Poland's liberal and ex-communist opposition asked the
Constitutional Tribunal to rule on the law, which has also
sparked particular disquiet among academics and journalists who
say it smacks of the methods of the old regime.

