

Officials at Virginia Tech University faced tough questions
Wednesday about why a mentally disturbed student fell through the
cracks and ended up gunning down at least 30 people.


The officials struggled to answer how Cho Seung-Hui, 23, a South
Korean English major considered dangerous by some, was allowed to
roam free and buy the guns used in Monday's rampage.


Cho's reclusive behavior -- and his stalking of female coeds --
had raised red flags on campus for some time.


University police came into contact with Cho in late 2005 after
two female students complained that he was stalking them and
sending them "annoying messages," said campus police chief
Wendell Flinchum.


Flinchum told reporters that police and university staff in both
instances spoke at length with Cho and on December 13, 2005 he
was committed to a local mental health facility after an
acquaintance expressed concern that he may be suicidal.


Officials said he was voluntarily committed, but Flinchum would
not say how long Cho stayed at the facility. He said that
university police "had no contact with Cho after the fall (school
semester) of 2005."


ABC News said it had obtained a copy of the detention order and
documents indicating that Cho was released the following day.


Cho was released for outpatient treatment after a physician
certified that while he was "mentally ill" he "does not present
an imminent danger to himself or others."


However, Harvey Baker, the director of ACCESS, an independent
community mental health service that evaluated Cho in December
2005 at the request of the university, said staff advised at the
time that a temporary restraining order be issued against him.


They also recommended that Cho be committed to a mental health
facility because he posed an imminent danger to himself or
others.


He said his agency had no further contact with Cho.


Virginia Governor Tim Kaine told AFP that he had ordered an
independent review of how the university handled the massacre and
its response to repeated warnings about Cho's aberrant behavior.


Cho shot himself in the head after slaughtering students and
staff. He also was armed with knives, and at least one more knife
along with prescription medications for depression were found in
his dormitory room.


"The team will be looking into the circumstances of the shooting
and aspects of this troubled young man who received treatment in
some instances," Kaine said. "Why he slipped through the net is a
very valid question.


"The review will teach us what happened and what we need to
know."


Investigators were poring over the emergence of the gunman's
angry last manifesto, which he had mailed Monday to NBC News.


The television network said it had received the package Wednesday
and turned it over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.


The package contained 27 video files, an 1,800-word document and
43 photographs, some showing Cho brandishing the guns used during
Monday's rampage at Virginia Tech.


In one video broadcast by the network, Cho said he had been
"forced into a corner" and accused others of having "blood on
their hands."


The ease with which Cho purchased the weapons he used for his
killing spree, despite his treatment for mental illness, also has
raised alarms.


Virginia State Police conduct background checks on gun purchases
and it was unclear why Cho's name was not known to them.


"How can a mentally ill person get a gun?" asked Fred Kosnac, a
Virginia Tech accounting major from New York, in response to the
video.


Lucinda Roy, an English professor who taught Cho, said she found
his actions and writings so troubling that she alerted university
officials, counselors and university police more than a year ago.


She told the local Roanoke Times newspaper that when someone
addressed Cho, he waited 10 to 20 seconds to respond, that he
spoke in a whisper and once wrote a poem so disturbing that he
was pulled out of class.


"All of these signs, and I've been in teaching a long time,
signified to me that this was a student who was very troubled,"
Roy told the paper.


She said school and university officials tried to help but could
not force Cho to undergo counseling as he had not threatened
anyone directly.

