

The South Korean student who went on a killing spree at a US
university spent time in a mental health facility more than a
year ago and was accused of stalking female students, police said
Wednesday.


Police met with Cho Seung-Hui, the Virginia Tech University
student blamed for the deadliest school shooting in US history,
over the stalking claims but no charges were filed, Virginia Tech
police chief Wendell Flinchum said.


The two women who reported Cho to the police were not victims of
Monday's massacre, during which the 23-year-old Cho, armed with
two recently purchased handguns, gunned down at least 30 students
and teachers, he said.


Ballistics tests have found one of the handguns was used to shoot
dead two other students the same morning in another campus
building but police declined again on Wednesday to confirm that
Cho was responsible for those deaths.


Cho, who has been described as a sullen and troubled loner by
students and teachers, committed suicide following the rampage by
shooting himself in the head.


Flinchum said campus police spoke to Cho in November and December
2005 after two female students complained about the behavior of
the English major from Centreville, Virginia.


"In November of 2005, Cho had made contact through phone calls
and in person with a female student," he said. "The student
notified the Virginia Tech police department and officers
responded.


"The student declined to press charges and referred to the
contact with her as annoying," Flinchum said. "The investigating
officer referred Cho to the university disciplinary system."


Flinchum said the second incident occurred in December 2005.


"Cho instant-messaged a second female student," he said. "Again,
no threat was made against that student. However, she made a
complaint to the Virginia Tech police department and asked that
Cho have no further contact with her.


"Officers followed up the next morning and spoke with Cho
concerning this matter," he said. "Later that day, our department
received a call from an acquaintance of Cho's who was concerned
that Cho might be suicidal."


Flinchum said police and a counselor met with Cho and "based on
that interaction with the counselor, a temporary detention order
was obtained and Cho was taken to a mental health facility."


He did not say how long Cho stayed at the facility. Flinchum said
campus police had no further contact with Cho after those 2005
incidents.


As students, faculty staff and parents wrestled with their grief,
a brief security scare rattled the campus on Wednesday.


Flinchum said police were sent to a campus building after a
university telephone operator received a threat against Virginia
Tech president Charles Steger.


The incident alarmed some students still on campus, which has
been closed for the remainder of the week. "Oh my God, it's
starting all over again," said student Petty Wingler, 21, as
armed police and dogs descended on the building.


Virginia Governor Tim Kaine Wednesday visited eight wounded
students who remain hospitalized and said they are "doing
generally well."


"Some of them walked for the first time today," he told
reporters, "and many are expecting to be released fairly soon."


Kaine earlier told AFP he had ordered an independent review of
how the university handled the massacre and warnings about Cho's
behavior.


"The team will be looking into the circumstances of the shooting
and aspects of this troubled young man," Kaine said. "Why he
slipped through the net is a very valid question.


"The review will teach us what happened and what we need to
know."


Cho's former classmates and teachers have described a seriously
disturbed individual whose poetry, creative writing assignments
and plays were full of graphic violence.


Lucinda Roy, an English professor who taught Cho, has said she
found his actions and writings so troubling that she alerted
university officials, counselors and university police more than
a year ago.


Cho, who came to the United States from South Korea in 1992, when
he was eight years old, reportedly left behind a rambling note
complaining about "rich kids," "debauchery" and "deceitful
charlatans" on campus.


The shooting has renewed concern over school security and access
to guns that was rekindled last year by a rash of shootings. The
state of Virginia has some of the weakest gun licensing
requirements in the country.

