

The wretched form of Sri Lanka's left-handed opener Upul Tharanga
has opened the possibility of former captain Marvan Atapattu
making a comeback in the semi- final clash with New Zealand.


Tharanga managed just 17 runs in his last three outings and his
longest innings lasted no more than 22 balls -- a huge cause for
concern.


Atapattu is a member of Sri Lanka's 15-member squad, but has not
played in this World Cup.


"That's something we'll have to think about. He's hitting the
ball pretty well but he's just not spending time out there in the
middle," Sri Lankan captain Mahela Jayawardene told journalists
in Grenada.


Sidath Wettimuny, a highly acclaimed opening batsman in the
1980s, said showing Tharanga the door to make way for Atapattu
was "a very tough call to make."


"It is the people on tour who are aware if Marvan has maintained
the required levels of fitness and if he is batting well in the
nets," Wettimuny told AFP in Colombo.


The former captain has not figured in any of the games so far and
seems set to repeat the 1996 record of not playing a single game
despite being a member of the champion squad.


Wettimuny, also a former chief selector, added: "We all would
like to see him (Atapattu) back in the side, but to replace Upul
Tharanga despite his poor run is not the easiest of decisions to
be made."


But former opener Romesh Kaluwitharana disagreed.


"Marvan is a classy player who is experienced enough to handle
any pressure. He should definitely be given the chance in the
semi-final. Upul has done well but is not doing so right now,"
Kaluwitharana said.


Tony Opatha, Sri Lanka's main strike bowler in the 1970s, said,
"it is time we said 'thank you' to Upul Tharanga and drafted
Marvan into the side. Sri Lankan top order needs stability and
Marvan is the man to provide it."


Premasara Epasinghe, a veteran cricket broadcaster, said it might
be too late to make a dramatic change at the top of the order.


But Bandula Warnapura, the island's first Test captain, said
Atapattu should be included.


"A team has 15 members in a squad to go for replacements if the
need be. Upul has failed so naturally he should be replaced," he
said.

