

A Gates Foundation grant will help developing countries send the
seeds of "critical" food crops to a doomsday seed vault in


an Arctic deep freeze, the recipients said Thursday.


"The fight against hunger cannot be won without securing fast-
disappearing crop biodiversity," the Global Crop Diversity Trust
and its partner the UN Foundation said in announcing the grant of
30 million dollars (22 million euros).


Part of the grant by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, to
which the Norwegian government added 7.5 million dollars in
matching funds, will go towards helping poor countries send seeds
to the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, a statement said.


The so-called "Noah's Ark of food" near the North Pole will store
at least 450,000 seed samples at a temperature of minus 18
degrees Celsius (minus 0.4 Fahrenheit).


The grant will finance the packaging and shipping of seeds to the
fault, Cary Fowler of the Rome-based Global Crop Diversity Trust
told AFP.


The funding is "the largest crop biodiversity preservation grant
ever made," the communique said.


"Among the crops covered are many 'orphan crops' -- crops
particularly important to the poor but largely neglected by
modern plant breeding, despite the need for high-yielding,
nutritious varieties," the statement said.


The initiative "will secure at-risk collections in poor countries
and document their astonishing diversity, making it available to
meet the food needs of the poor," trust director Cary Fowler said
in the statement.


Genetic diversity "is the raw material that enables plant
breeders and farmers to develop higher yielding, more nutritious,
and stress-resistant varieties," the communique said, adding that
it was essential to adapting to climate change.


"Our effort to help hundreds of millions of small farmers and
their families overcome poverty and hunger rests in part on food
security," said Sylvia Mathews Burwell, president of the Gates
Foundation's Global Development Program.


"But there can be no food security without first securing the
basis of our food production -- the genetic diversity of every
crop, in particular those most important to the poor that
unfortunately are neglected by modern plant breeding," she said.


Timothy E. Wirth, president of the United Nations Foundation,
said, for his part: "By providing access to crop genetic
information, plant breeders across Africa may be able to adapt
their crops to varieties that will grow in different climate
conditions."


The seed vault in Norway would not flood if Greenland's ice sheet
melts, which some estimate would increase sea levels by seven
meters (23 feet).

