

There are few more thrilling sights in cricket than watching a
fast bowler in action.


That's why the crowd at Grenada's National Stadium on Friday will
be doubly fortunate when champions Australia and New Zealand wrap
up their World Cup Super Eights campaign.


For in Australia's Shaun Tait and New Zealand's Shane Bond they
will be watching two of the outstanding quicks in the Caribbean.


Tait, Australia's strike bowler in the absence of the injured
Brett Lee, is third in the list of the tournament's leading
bowlers with 16 wickets at 22.12 while Bond is tenth with 12 at
under 13 apiece.


Both right-arm bowlers are capable of making breakthroughs with
the new ball and coming back later to take important wickets in
the middle of an innings.


However, the similarities end there.


Tait, 24, still mainly relies on sheer pace generated by a huge
shoulder turn in an unorthodox action which has been likened to
that of Aussie pace great Jeff Thomson, who terrorised the
world's best batsmen during the 1970s.


Bond, as befits a former policeman, is less wayward and bowls a
generally fuller length with fewer short-pitched deliveries


Not as quick as Tait, the greater experience of the injury-
plagued, 31-year-old Bond, who has played 66 one-day
internationals compared to the Australian's 12, is seen in his
greater variety and mastery of late movement.


However, with Australia's well-balanced pace attack featuring the
ever-reliable Glenn McGrath, the leading wicket-taker in the
tournament to date with 20, and miserly left-armer Nathan
Bracken, the double-defending champions can unleash Tait without
compromising his speed for greater accuracy.


That can make life tough for wicket-keeper Adam Gilchrist who,
during Monday's defeat of Sri Lanka, saw Tait bowl six wides
including one that went way out of his reach on its way to the
boundary.


Not that the Australia vice-captain was complaining.


"There's not many things that can scare you more as a batsman
than raw pace, and he's got that," said Gilchrist.


"He's been known to bowl the odd wide here and there and that's
what's going to come from that style of bowling but we feel the
impact he has makes it well worth taking on those couple of
extras."


Bond, although possessing a far more orthodox action, is unusual
among modern quicks as New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming
explained.


"He's a fine bowler and he swings the ball in, a lot of fast
bowlers these days shape the ball away," said Fleming.


"He gets prodigious movement with the new ball that provides a
challenge to any top order. He's been able to use the inswing to
a lot of effect and he's developed other subtleties."


Bond enjoys the rare distinction amongst current players of
having a better one- day record against Australia than for his
career as a whole with 34 wickets at an average of under 14
apiece, compared to 124 wickets at 19 against all-comers.


And three of his four hauls of five wickets or more in an innings
in one-dayers have come against Australia, including a dramatic
return of six for 23 during the 2003 World Cup in Port Elizabeth.


But, in what could be a worrying omen for New Zealand fans,
Australia still won that match by 96 runs.

