

Chilean President Michelle Bachelet on Wednesday held talks in
Caracas with her Venezuelan counterpart Hugo Chavez, who just
days earlier caused a diplomatic spat by saying Chilean senators
were "fascists."


The two presidents made it clear they had put the dispute behind
them and stressed the need for the two South American countries
to work together.


"Our people want peace and cooperation," Bachelet said at a joint
news conference after her talks with Chavez.


"We have and want to have the best possible relations with the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela," the socialist Chilean
president said.


Chavez, for his part, stressed the need to "resolve any hurdles
whenever they appear, and move jointly toward a better future."


Bachelet had said earlier she would demand that Chavez show some
respect toward Chile, after he railed against the Chilean senate
for criticizing his decision to effectively shut down Venezuela's
RCTV television station, which is critical of his government.


In an 18-6 vote, the senate had requested that Bachelet denounce
the "violation of freedom of thought and expression" before the
Organization of American States.


Chavez, a leftist known for his often virulent statements,
claimed last week the motion was passed by "the fascist, extreme-
right wing, the one that toppled progressive governments, popular
governments in Latin America, that supports aggressions against
people, disappearances, assassinations and genocides."


The verbal attack struck a deep chord in Chile, a country still
scarred by the 1973-1990 dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet that is
blamed for some 3,000 deaths and disappearances, and other grave
human rights violations.


Bachelet was also scheduled to meet with leaders of the
opposition to the Chavez government, including former
presidential hopeful Manuel Rosales, the governor of the western
state of Zulia.


Another opposition leader, Julio Borges, said he would ask
Bachelet to press for a reversal of the decision not to renew
RCTV's broadcasting license.

