

Arsene Wenger's future as manager of Arsenal has been thrown into
doubt after his biggest boardroom ally walked out in a move
widely linked to US billionaire Stan Kroenke's reported desire to
buy the club.


David Dein, the Gunners vice-chairman who brought Wenger to north
London in 1996, quit the club late Wednesday because of
unspecified "irreconcilable differences" with the rest of the
board.


The move immediately sparked speculation that Dein was ready to
sell his 14 percent stake in the club to Kroenke, who has already
acquired 11 percent of the tightly-controlled Arsenal shares.


If that was to happen, Kroenke, the owner of Major League
Soccer's Colorado Rapids, basketball team Denver Nuggets and ice
hockey side Colorado Avalanche, would become the biggest
shareholder in the Gunners, currently valued at 420 million
pounds.


But he would remain short of the 30 percent required to trigger
an automatic takeover bid under UK corporate law and the
remaining board members, who together account for just over 45
percent of the shares, have agreed to hang on to their stakes for
at least the next year.


Analysts suggested that the stance of the board, led by chairman
Peter Hill- Wood, made a takeover unlikely in the short term. But
there is certainly scope for a power struggle which could put
Wenger's future on the line.


The Frenchman's contract expires at the end of next season and
Arsenal have yet to engage the most successful manager in the
club's history in discussions on an extension.


As well as having recruited Wenger, Dein worked closely with the
Frenchman on transfer deals -- his discreet negotiations helping
Wenger forge a reputation for rarely making a bad call or paying
over the odds.


Arsenal are the only one of England's big four clubs not in
foreign hands.


Chelsea have been owned by Russian tycoon Roman Abramovich since
2004, Manchester United were bought by the US-based Glazer family
a year later and last month saw American George Gillett and Tom
Hicks complete a takeover of Liverpool.


Dein's shock departure was revealed in a statement from Hill-
Wood, which expressed regret that "irreconcilable differences
between Mr Dein and the rest of the board have necessitated a
parting of the ways."

