

Shaun Wright-Phillips believes Chelsea have been able to maintain
their relentless pursuit of Premiership leaders Manchester United
because every player feels part of Jose Mourinho's family.


Wright-Phillips scored twice as Chelsea closed the gap on United
to three points with a 4-1 win at West Ham on Wednesday. But the
England winger is convinced it is the team's all-for-one
mentality rather than individual talent that has kept them on
course for an unprecedented quadruple.


The reigning champions underlined that comradeship with another
demonstration of their unbreakable will to win just hours after a
missile was thrown at their team coach en route to Upton Park,
shattering a window and shocking the players.


Chelsea hardly needed any more motivation to get the victory they
sought to keep the pressure on United. But just in case they
weren't sufficiently fired up, the mindless supporter provided
further incentive.


As a former West Ham player, Chelsea's Frank Lampard knows
passions can run high in east London and he said: "A window got
broken on the way. The outer layer shattered and there was a huge
bang.


"It's football. These things happen when emotions are running
high. West Ham are coming here fighting for their lives. But
nobody died so there is no point making a big deal about it."


If Chelsea really are the close-knit community that Wright-
Phillips describes, then he must be the long-lost relative who
suddenly turns up on Christmas Day.


The 25-year-old has been anonymous since his move from Manchester
City in 2005 and the fact that these were his first Premiership
goals for Chelsea merely underlined the extent of his struggles.


In the past he has often appeared over-anxious to impress during
his cameo appearances, but for once he managed to channel his
boundless enthusiasm into a match-winning display.


While he admitted his two fine strikes gave him a measure of
personal vindication, it was their impact on the title race that
was more important.


"It's an undescribable feeling and I just have to thank the other
lads for being behind me all the way," Wright-Phillips said.
"It's only normal that the more games you play the more confident
you get.


"It was very important for us to cut down the gap again. We know
what we have to do. We have to win every game to put them under
pressure.


"The determination is unbelievable. Even if we go a goal down, we
believe we can get back into it. That's the strength we have as a
family at this club. We're always together."


Lampard claimed Chelsea's players had been inspired by the
negative publicity surrounding Mourinho's frosty relationship
with Roman Abramovich.


Mourinho's future is still uncertain after reports linked
Abramovich with a move for former Germany manager Jurgen
Klinsmann.


But Lampard said: "There's been a lot of talk and that comes with
being a Chelsea player, but it can only inspire you. We have been
through tough times and we are in with a chance of everything.
That is a testament to the lads and we will go to the end."


Wright-Phillips opened the scoring with a left-foot shot from the
edge of the area in the 32nd minute, but Carlos Tevez equalised
from 25 yards three minutes later.


Chelsea hit back just a minute later when Wright-Phillips
volleyed in Wayne Bridge's cross. Salomon Kalou's close range
effort just after half-time put the Blues in control and Didier
Drogba wrapped up their ninth successive league victory with a
fine finish.


West Ham remain five points from safety and manager Alan
Curbishley admitted his side need to win three of their last four
matches to avoid relegation.


"I thought we were excellent in the first half and I was very
disappointed to go in 2-1 down," he said.


"My only complaint is that if we had performed like that against
the teams around us we might be in better shape.


"We'll keep going because we've said it looks like it could go to
the wire. But we have to win the rest of our games for that to
happen."

