

Segolene Royal, the Socialist candidate who shot to political
stardom thanks to a highly personal campaigning style, has lost
some of her shine but still sees herself as France's first woman
president.


The 53-year-old former environment minister took the country by
storm last year, emerging from almost nowhere to win the
Socialist Party nomination over two senior party heavyweights and
posing a serious challenge to the right-wing frontrunner Nicolas
Sarkozy.


But since January her standing has been eroded by a series of
gaffes, signs of dissent within her own camp and a less-than-
triumphant election manifesto launch.


Socialist Party insiders are fearful she could even be beaten in
Sunday's first round of voting by the centrist candidate Francois
Bayrou, who has consistently held third place in the polls in
recent weeks.


Royal's rise owed much to her image as a woman operating outside
of the traditional party structure. Voters initially gave a warm
response to a politician who seemed willing to break taboos --
calling for "boot camps" for young offenders for example and
"popular juries" to assess elected officials.


In fact her political background was strictly conventional.


After attending the elite National Administration School ENA, she
was cherry- picked by socialist president Francois Mitterrand and
spent six years as an adviser in the Elysee presidential palace.


In 1988 she was elected to the National Assembly and four years
later -- for just one year -- held her first ministerial post at
the department of the environment.


In the socialist government of 1997 to 2002 she was junior
minister for education, then the family.


Royal's breakthrough came in the regional elections of 2004 when
she wrested control of the Poitou-Charentes region from then
prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. After that she was marked by
the media as a "woman to watch."


One of eight children of a military officer from Lorraine in
northeast France, Royal is the partner of Socialist leader
Francois Hollande -- with whom she has four children.


Elegant and immaculately turned out -- last year she was voted
the world's sixth sexiest woman in a French magazine -- she is
also articulate, outspoken and believes profoundly in the mission
to create a new contract between politicians and the public.


But detractors say she is an authoritarian with, in the words of
Socialist dissident Eric Besson, "an ultra-personal conception of
power."


Critics on the right say that the manifesto speech of February 11
was nakedly left-wing and stripped away any pretence of a Tony
Blair-style "third way."


But in March she was accused of playing into the hands of the
far-right after calling for her supporters to reclaim the
national anthem and flag from French nationalists.


Royal's rallies have been wrapping up with loudspeakers blasting
out the national anthem, "La Marseillaise," which is more often
associated in French politics with Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-
immigration National Front party.

