

Flowers, stuffed animals, and other impromptu tributes sprang up
around the Virginia Tech campus Wednesday, as a grieving school
community struggled to come to terms with the deadliest school
shooting in US history.


Two days after South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui gunned down at
least 30 people, many students converged on a sprawling field at
the heart of the campus, seeking solace while paying tribute at
makeshift memorials to those who had died.


Students, staff and members of the Blacksburg community stood
quietly before 32 flower-strewn stones that had been placed in a
circle at one edge of the field, in honor of the victims of
Monday's two separate shootings.


Ribbons in orange and maroon, the school colors, had been
fastened around the trunks of trees surrounding the field.


Meanwhile, the son of famous US evangelist television Billy
Graham, along with several other preachers, conducted a prayer
service on a section of the field just yards (meters) from the
building where students were gunned down as they attended
classes.


"I know there is evil in this world," said Franklin Graham. "We
saw evil on this campus Monday."


Nearby, students wept as they scrawled messages on large boards.


"We stand with you in silence," read one message.


"Dearest Reema," began another, "your beautiful smile, voice and
dancing are so fresh in my mind. You will always be missed and
never forgotten."


Yet another message paid tribute to G.V. Loganathan, a professor
of Indian origin killed in his class.


"Loganathan, rest in peace professor. You will be greatly missed
as you were a great professor and a great man. Your heart was
always towards your students," it read.


Students said the tributes provided an outlet for their grief,
after so many of their classmates and teachers were suddenly
struck down.


"This is the worst thing I have experienced since 9/11," said
Noah, 19, a first- year student who refused to give his last
name, referring to the September 2001 attacks on the United
Statess.


Deise Galan, 19, a student from Brazil, said she had come to the
field to express her solidarity with the victims.


"I just want to show my support even though I didn't know any of
those who died," she said.


Meanwhile, the Virginia Tech campus, usually bustling with
students going to and from classes, was eerily quiet as the
university remained shuttered Wednesday.


Many students who live on campus returned to their homes to
grieve with their families, ahead of plans by the university to
reopen Monday.


"A lot of the students who live in the dorms left," said Erin
Merricks, 20, who was heading to her family home in Virginia
later Wednesday. "It's hard to stay and watch this all week."


Several students said it would be hard to accept that the
university, best known for its football team and excellence in
engineering, would now be remembered as the site of the worst
mass shooting in US history.


"I just hope this tragedy doesn't turn anybody off to come and
study here," said Jared Pruett, 20. "We don't want to be known by
this."

