

A collection of more than 30 Old Masters looted from a Dutch
dealer by the Nazis during World War II and returned to his heirs
last year fetched almost 10 million dollars at auction Thursday.


The 31 lots sold for a total of 9.7 million dollars, Christie's
auction house said, with a river landscape by Salomon van
Ruysdael the top-selling lot, bought for 2.2 million dollars,
well below its estimate of three to five million.


The lots were part of a collection of 200 artworks looted by the
Nazis in 1940 and restituted to Marei von Saher, the daughter-in-
law of Jewish art dealer Jacques Goudstikker, by the Dutch
government last year.


Other works from the collection, which features Dutch Old Masters
from the 15th to 19th centuries as well as works from 16th
century Germany and 18th century France, are to go on sale in
London in July and Amsterdam in November.


"The Dutch government's return of these pictures was a historic
event for us and for all families whose possessions were stolen
during the Holocaust era," Von Saher said in a statement. She
said she was pleased with Thursday's sale.


"It was also a milestone in my family's mission to restore the
legacy of Jacques Goudstikker and to recover the property that
was stolen from his gallery," she added.


Marc Porter from Christie's described the collection as of
"exceptional historical importance," while director Nicholas Hall
said it was "arguably the most important collection of Old Master
pictures ever restituted."


The paintings were looted when Nazi forces invaded the
Netherlands in 1940. Goudstikker fled the country with his wife
and son and was forced to abandon his business and 1,400 works of
art.


However, he took with him a black notebook that recorded details
of over 1,000 of his pictures and proved essential in the search
for his lost works.


While the Goudstikkers eventually managed to escape to the United
States, Jacques Goudstikker died on the journey.


According to Christie's, Luftwaffe commander Hermann Goering was
among the officers who looted Goudstikker's gallery, taking some
works back to Germany.


And while some 280 paintings from the original collection were
returned after the war, Dutch authorities held on to the
paintings and incorporated them into the Dutch national
collection.


The heirs to the collection began an eight-year legal battle to
win back the works in 1998.


Von Saher remains committed to tracking down other works that
were looted from the original collection and are believed to be
spread around the world.


Art recovery specialist Clemens Toussaint is among those helping
Von Saher locate missing parts of the collection.


"This is perhaps the most comprehensive research project ever
undertaken to track down a single-owner art collection looted by
the Nazis, and it is our goal to find every single work," he
said.

