

Virginia Governor Timothy Kaine unveiled Thursday an independent
panel that will review this week's university massacre in hopes
of drawing valuable lessons from the tragedy.


Speaking at a news conference about Monday's shootings at
Virginia Tech University that left 33 people dead, Kaine said the
review panel will look at "all the circumstances surrounding this
horrible event so that we can examine everything that happened
and hopefully learn from it."


The governor outlined some of the questions to be answered about
the gunman, South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui, 23, who had a
history of mental illness and shot himself in the head after his
methodical rampage.


"What was his interaction with the mental health system? What
kind of treatment did he receive or did he not receive? What were
the warning signs? Who was warned? What was done? What did he do
to acquire these weapons? How did he learn to use the weapons?"


Cho has been described as a sullen loner by students, teachers
and his roommates and his violent writings and intimidating
manner raised alarm bells among some of his professors long
before the attacks.


Cho was committed to a mental institution in December 2005 after
one of two stalking incidents involving female students but was
released the next day for outpatient treatment after he was
deemed not to be a danger to others.


Kaine said the circumstances of the shootings on campus must be
found out. "And so minute by minute, to the best of our ability,
we will work to determine all of the circumstances and events
surrounding the shooting."


Kaine said the law enforcement and medical emergency responses to
the shootings also must be studied.


Former Virginia State Police superintendent Gerald Massengill
will lead the eight-person panel, which will also include former
US Homeland Security chief Tom Ridge, an ex-FBI agent and experts
in higher education and mental health.


Monday's massacre, the deadliest school shootings in US history,
has raised a barrage of questions about whether Cho -- with his
mental problems and stalking episodes -- should have been allowed
to remain in school.

