

A proposed 3,000-strong UN force to back up ill-equipped African
Union (AU) troops in Sudan's war-torn Darfur region is unlikely
to be deployed before September, Britain's UN ambassador said
Thursday.


"We have to do everything possible to produce the heavy support
package on the ground at the earliest date," Ambassador Emyr
Jones Parry, who chairs the Security Council this month, said.


"With the best will in the world, we're not likely to be able to
do that before September," he added. "And so we have to cover all
the different aspects, to sustain protection of civilians in
Darfur up to September and through September."


Several diplomats said this would mostly likely require an
extension of the mandate of the current AU force in Darfur, whose
mandate expires April 30.


A three-phase plan floated last year by former United Nations
chief Kofi Annan is supposed to culminate with the deployment of
a 20,000-strong "hybrid" UN-AU peacekeeping force in Darfur.


Regarding the "hybrid" force, Jones Parry said "the priority is
to firm up the agreement between the AU and the UN and to get a
very early response and agreement from (Sudanese President Omar)
Beshir so the planning for that can actually be effective and
troops got ready."


A Western diplomat said that under the most optimistic scenario,
a fully operational joint AU-UN force would not be on the ground
before next December.


Meanwhile, Sudan Thursday said that threats of sanctions by
London and Washington were a sign of "contempt" for the world
body which had just praised Khartoum's acceptance of UN troops in
Darfur.


Britain and the United States said Wednesday they planned to
reach out Thursday to other Security Council members to craft new
punitive measures, but veto- wielders China and Russia, as well
as South Africa, immediately shot down the plan.


The Security Council did not schedule a formal meeting on the
issue Thursday. A Western diplomat said the United States,
Britain and France would merely discuss "how to proceed."


"We're not talking about sharing a text of a resolution with
others or certainly not tabling a resolution but the next step
would be to talk about the elements of what might be in a
resolution," he added.


UN sanctions under consideration by London and Washington include
expanding a list of Sudanese officials found responsible for
Darfur atrocities that would be subjected to an assets freeze and
a travel ban, extending the existing UN arms embargo in Darfur to
the whole of Sudan or imposing a no-fly zone over Darfur.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes in four years of ethnic
strife, according to the UN. Khartoum disputes those figures, but
some sources say the death toll is much higher.

