

More than 9,000 candidates will be chasing 250 seats in Syria's
parliament on Sunday, in a two-day election which opposition
parties -- banned but still with a voice -- want their supporters
to boycott.


It is "pointless to take part in an election whose results are
known in advance," said lawyer Hassan Abdel-Azim, spokesman for
six banned parties operating under the umbrella National
Democratic Rally (NDR).


Even Syria's official press acknowledges a distinct lack of
excitement among the nearly 12 million eligible voters in the
country's population of 19 million.


"Except for the candidates, their relatives and those who will
profit from this commercial festival, (Syrians) have lost their
enthusiasm for the parliamentary elections," said the official
daily newspaper Tishrin.


Under Syria's current electoral law, adopted in 1973, 167 seats
are reserved for candidates of the National Progressive Front
(NPF).


This is a coalition of ruling parties headed by the Baath party
whose candidates are guaranteed 131 seats -- 52 percent -- of the
250 in parliament.


The party, which according to the constitution "leads the state
and society," along with its allies controls nearly 67 percent of
the seats, the opposition says.


The other 83 seats in the house are allocated to candidates
"close to the authorities", so-called independents, according to
Abdel-Azim.


The mix of candidates includes a total of 1,004 women, a dozen of
them competing for the Damascus seats and four running on the NPF
ticket. Thirty women MPs sat in the outgoing parliament.


The NPF "will come out the winner" at these elections, as it has
done in all organised elections since 1973, said Abdel-Azim.


Every single NPF candidate was elected in the last poll held in
2003, with the "independent" seats going mainly to businessmen
and industrialists close to the authorities.


Tishrin newspaper also had little praise for the style of
campaigning, commenting on the candidates' efforts: "Elections
for the people's assembly: beautiful photos, huge posters, no
(electoral) programme."


Polling stations will open at 7.00 am (0400 GMT) on Sunday, and
close at 8.00 pm (1700 GMT), reopening on Monday again at 7.00 am
and closing at 2.00 pm (1100 GMT), according to Interior Minister
Bassam Abdel-Majid, quoted by the official news agency SANA on
Thursday.


One outgoing Islamist MP, Mohammed Habash, standing as an
independent for the capital, Damascus, praised the fact that the
elections were being held at all.


"Syria has chosen to organise the elections in their (proper)
time, despite political pressures and the (American) occupation
in Iraq," he told AFP.


Syria has been subject to intense international pressure since
the murder of former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri in
February 2005 in Beirut, for which Damascus was widely accused,
despite its denials.


The country has since been trying to emerge from its isolation
and has recently welcomed several influential political figures.
They have included European Union foreign policy chief Javier
Solana, and the Democratic speaker of the US House of
Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, looking at ways to advance peace
in the Middle East.


But internally, the authorities have tightened their vice on the
activists, increasing arrests, summonses by the security
services, and travel bans.


Opposition hopes of increased democracy were raised, falsely, by
the accession to power of Bashar al-Assad in 2000 on the death of
his father Hafez, who had ruled with an iron fist.


Late in 2005, in a move unprecedented over decades, the
opposition parties which are tolerated but have no legal status
launched an appeal for "democratic change" in Syria.


The plea failed to bring positive action.


In May the following year, the authorities jailed 10 opposition
figures who had signed a statement seeking reform in the
country's relations with Lebanon, where Syria had been the power-
broker for nearly three decades.


Three of them -- writer Michel Kilo, lawyer Anwar Bunni, and
militant communist Mahmud Issa -- are currently on trial.


Among other demands, the opposition wants a modern law
authorising the creation of parties other than the Baath and its
allies and abrogation of the state of emergency which has been in
force since 1963.


Many Syrians blame political paralysis for their lack of interest
in elections.


"Vast categories (of people) are indifferent to the impending
elections ... because of the status quo which blocks any
political and economic evolution," wrote Syrian opposition
activist Omar Koche in an article published in March in the
Lebanese as-Safir paper.


After the poll, a referendum is planned on a new mandate for
Bashar al-Assad. He received 97.29 percent of votes in a
plebiscite after his father's death on June 10, 2000.


Syria's official figures give a rosy picture on the economy,
where some reforms have been introduced.


But economist Nabil Sukkar, at a Damascus meeting last week, was
quoted in al- Watan as saying that "problems have accumulated
over the course of years, marked by the paralysis of the economic
system, the fall in levels of production, the weakness of exports
and the increase of unemployment."


According to official figures, Syria achieved a growth rate of
5.1 percent in 2006, paid off almost all its external debt --
estimated in 2006 to be less than five billion dollars compared
with 24 billion in 2005 -- and brought unemployment down to 9.5
percent at the end of 2006.

