

Chelsea might be struggling to hang on to Manchester United's
coat-tails in the final stages of the season, but Frank Lampard
insists he is relishing the closest Premiership title battle in
years.


Even if it ultimately means he misses out on a third consecutive
championship medal, the Blues' England midfielder believes the
competition offered by a revitalised United is a good thing for
the English game.


United will entertain Middlesbrough on Saturday looking to extend
their lead over their London rivals to six points ahead of
Chelsea's trip to Newcastle on Sunday.


With only five matches left for each of the top two, a single
slip-up by either side could prove decisive and Lampard is happy
to be at the heart of the nerve- shredding battle.


"We've won the league pretty comfortably for the last two years
and this year Manchester United have upped it so it's been a bit
different," the 28-year-old reflected.


"It's been a much closer race and I think it's probably not a bad
thing for English football because everyone likes to see a good
battle to the end."


Newcastle are expecting to welcome back Turkey midfielder Emre
after an 11-week injury-enforced absence but star striker Michael
Owen looks likely to wait until the following week before finally
making his comeback from the serious knee injury he suffered
during the World Cup.


United meanwhile are hoping to welcome Rio Ferdinand back for
Boro's visit to Old Trafford, easing the defensive injury crisis
that manager Sir Alex Ferguson has had to deal with in recent
weeks.


Ferdinand's injury has contributed to Wes Brown enjoying a
prolonged run in the team and the back-up defender believes
United will prove their squad has sufficient depth of quality to
hold off Chelsea.


"We have five games to go and we are looking to win every one of
them because if we do, we know we have won the league," said
Brown.


"Middlesbrough will be a tough game because they will get stuck
into us, but we are at home and if we play as well as we can do,
we can win the game."


Liverpool can guarantee a top four finish and a place in the
final qualifying round for next season's Champions League by
beating Wigan at Anfield on Saturday.


But, as captain Steven Gerrard acknowledged, the Reds' thoughts
are likely to be dominated by next week's Champions League semi-
final first leg against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge.


"I believe there is still more to come from us this season and we
have kept enough in the tanks to bring success, and a trophy,
back to Anfield in May," the England midfielder said.


"Now everyone is playing for places next week down at Chelsea,
and that is always a nice situation for the manager to find
himself in. We've just about got a full squad to chose from and
everybody wants to be involved in the big games."


Arsenal are also virtually certain of Champions League football
next season and Gunners fans will be keen for them to deal a blow
to Tottenham's European ambitions in the north London derby at
White Hart Lane.


Arsene Wenger's side are seeking to complete a hat-trick of wins
over their closest neighbours this season -- an outcome which
would bring a welcome respite from the boardroom squabbles
currently dominating life at the Emirates.


At the bottom, Watford could be relegated if they lose at home to
Manchester City, West Ham must beat Everton to have any realistic
prospect of survival and Charlton and Sheffield United meet at
The Valley in a match that looks like a duel between the most
likely survivors in the bottom four.


Fixtures (1400 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Bolton v Reading, Charlton v Sheffield Utd, Fulham v Blackburn,
Liverpool v Wigan, Manchester Utd v Middlesbrough (1615 GMT),
Tottenham v Arsenal (1145 GMT), Watford v Manchester City, West
Ham v Everton


Sunday


Aston Villa v Portsmouth (1500 GMT), Newcastle v Chelsea (1230
GMT)

