

Protesters detained last weekend during demonstrations against
President Vladimir Putin plan to file complaints against police,
former chess champion and protest leader Garry Kasparov said
Thursday.


The group known as The Other Russia led protests in Moscow and
Saint Petersburg last weekend, resulting in a violent crackdown
by police.


The Other Russia, which accuses Putin of attempting to dismantle
democracy, says 700 protesters were detained in Moscow and 300 in
Saint Petersburg.


About 50 people were injured in Saint Petersburg, said Kasparov,
who was among those detained. Those claiming they were attacked
by police plan to file complaints with Russia's Constitutional
Court, he said.


AFP reporters at the rallies witnessed helmeted riot police
clubbing dozens of protestors, who put up no resistance. Several
journalists were also beaten.


Russia has dismissed international concern over the crackdown,
saying police acted properly, and accused foreign journalists of
exaggerating the importance of the demonstrations.


Kasparov criticised international reaction to the crackdown,
saying that it "was not at the level of the crimes committed by
the authorities in Moscow and Saint Petersburg."


"It's better than nothing, because up to now there had simply
been no reactions," he told reporters.


The European Commission, Germany, the United States and Canada
have expressed concerns over the crackdown.


Kasparov added that he was to be interviewed Friday by Russian
security agents because of comments he made to a radio station
which have been deemed "extremist".


The Other Russia is planning further protests in Saint Petersburg
on May 27 and in Moscow in June.


The group includes a wide range of political interests, and
Kasparov said it may be difficult for the group to choose a
single candidate to run in next year's presidential elections.


The Russian Duma has announced that it would form a working group
to determine who organised and financed last weekend's protests.

