

British broadcaster BBC is spearheading the push into multi-
screen entertainment taking shape around the world with a raft of
projects to soothe viewers' red-hot itch for more on-demand
services.


The aim is to give viewers access not only to the BBC's current
programmes but also to its rich vein of archives.


"Our audience increasingly want and expect to dictate how, when,
and where they get our services," BBC technology and new media
director Ashley Highfield said Wednesday to a packed house at the
world's largest broadcasting and audiovisual trade show,
MIPTV/MILIA.


In response to viewers' expectations, Highfield said the BBC was
starting to deliver content in a "hybrid environment," combining
digital television, radio, the Internet, cable converter boxes
and personal video recorders to offer interactive services.


The broadcaster plans to make available its vast treasure-trove
of over one million hours of video, audio and supporting
programme notes and scripts on its website.


The goal, BBC said, is to bridge the gap between traditional
television and the mushrooming digital world and give audiences a
richer entertainment environment.


The arrival of on-demand services, which has revolutionised the
way many use television, has been one of the main issues
dominating this year's MIPTV/MILIA trade show, set to wrap up on
Friday.


While the trend is turning traditional broadcasting on its head
by pushing entertainment into new arenas, most industry movers
and shakers here this week feel this far-reaching development
will largely be positive for them, and for their audiences.


"If broadcasters don't seize this day then audiences will
themselves," stated BBC top executive Jana Bennett, who shared
the stage with Highfield.


Content is, more than ever before, the key to capturing and
securing new audiences as well as to satisfying loyal viewers,
the MIPTV/MILIA crowd were repeatedly told.


It also appears increasingly clear that audiences want to be able
to download quality content to watch where and when they choose.


While people post a mind-boggling variety of mostly poor quality
videos onto video-sharing sites like YouTube, the content they
download themselves tends to be made by professionals, Jason
Hirschhorn, the president of Sling Entertainment, pointed out.


His view was echoed by the increasing number of media groups and
telecom companies busy launching secure IPTV channels across
Europe.


They claim that by offering television over the Internet they can
deliver a superior viewing experience in a safe "walled garden"
that gives audiences high definition picture quality along with
features like built-in video-on-demand, two-way interactivity and
e-commerce capabilities.


That is not the case for the brand new peer-to-peer, or Internet
television platforms, such as Joost and Babelgum, which are open
to anyone and which many fear will do to television what online
music file sharing services like KaZaa did to the music world.


Silvio Scaglia, founder of Internet television start-up Babelgum,
however, insisted the new services were not a threat, but rather
a compliment, to traditional broadcasters.


"We are carefully building something that is different to serve a
global audience," by exploiting the transitions between
technologies, he said in a debate on the future of on-demand
television and multi-platform content distribution.


The overall consensus here this week was that the growing choice
of screens and devices will be positive for broadcasters.


"As a means of distribution and long life (for programmes),
multi-platforms will be a wonderful thing for broadcasters,"
Bennett predicted.


By making its vast archives available, the BBC hopes to enjoy the
benefits of greatly extending the shelf-life of its programmes.


As the next step towards opening its archives to British
television licence holders, the broadcaster will launch an on-
demand trial involving over 20,000 people next month, Highfield
said.


The trial aims to test what old programmes people really want to
see, whether they want to see them in full length or in clip
compilations and when they wish to view them.


The BBC also hopes to launch an "iPlayer" service that would
enable viewers to catch up on programmes they missed through the
Web and cable television.


Providing viewers with quality material and trusted content will
be key to holding onto them in the digital era, Highfield said,
maintaining that people will only pirate material if they are
unable to get hold of it legitimately.

