

When the National Basketball Association playoffs begin Saturday,
superstars will begin delivering answers to the questions that
have been building around the league for the past six months.


Can German superstar Dirk Nowitzki deliver a championship for
Dallas? The Mavericks lost in last year's final but captured a
home-court edge throughout the NBA playoffs by finishing with the
best regular-season record at 67-15.


Will Dwyane Wade bounce back from injury and join Shaquille
O'Neal in making Miami a champion for the second season in a row?
Wade suffered a separated left shoulder in February but returned
to the Heat earlier this month.


Have young stars such as LeBron James of Cleveland and Carmelo
Anthony of Denver matured enough to guide their teams to the NBA
promised land? Or can NBA scoring champion Kobe Bryant lift the
Los Angeles Lakers back to a title?


The biggest clues to these mysteries from the season that ended
Wednesday were Detroit dominating the Eastern Conference, taking
a home-court edge in the East at 53-29, and Dallas finishing six
games ahead of Phoenix in the West.


Opening round best-of-seven play begins Saturday with New Jersey
at Toronto, Orlando at Detroit and Miami at Chicago in the East
and Utah at Houston in the West.


Sunday openers find Washington at Cleveland in the East and
Denver at San Antonio, the Lakers at Phoenix and Golden State at
Dallas in the West.


Golden State, 42-40, reached the playoffs for the first time
since 1994 but the Warriors' reward was a first-round date with
the mighty Mavericks. Only twice in NBA history has a top seed
lost in the first round.


"There's nothing easy in the playoffs. That's how I look at it,"
Nowitzki said. "Ultimately, if you want to be the best, if you
want to win a championship, you have to go through the best."


The Warriors, guided by former Dallas coach Don Nelson, won all
three games off the Mavericks this season and boast the NBA
steals leader in Baron Davis with 2.1 a game.


"We know we have the team to do it," Davis said. "We want to come
in and be the spoiler."


Awaiting that series winner will be either Houston or Utah. The
Rockets, led by Chinese superstar center Yao Ming and guard Tracy
McGrady, swiped the series home-court edge with a better record
than the division-winning Jazz.


Utah won three of their four meetings but Yao missed two of those
and averaged 23.5 points and 12.5 rebounds when he was on the
court. McGrady scored 24.6 points a game but the Jazz feature
Carloss Boozer, who had 20.9 a game.


Bryant, a one-man gang who averaged 31.6 points a game, leads the
Lakers against a Phoenix club with the NBA's second-best record
and two-time NBA Most Valuable Player Steve Nash, the league
assists leader with 11.6 a game.


The Suns have the NBA's highest-scoring team with 110.2 points a
game. The Lakers averaged 103 points a game, third-best in the
league, but lost three of four to the Suns.


San Antonio led NBA defenses by allowing only 90.1 points a game
and with Tim Duncan contributing 20 points and 10.6 rebounds a
game the Spurs will be a formidable first-round foe for Denver,
which boasts the NBA's No. 2 offense.


Anthony's 28.9 points a game ranked second in the NBA while Allen
Iverson, seventh in the NBA with 26.3 points a game, ignited the
Nuggets after being sent over from Philadelphia and should test
the Spurs' vaunted defense.


Detroit owned the best record in the East at 53-29 but the
Cavaliers caught fire late in the season and finished only three
games back. They could meet in the Eastern finals provided each
can get past some difficult playoff obstacles.


The Pistons, whose 12.2 turnovers were the fewest of any NBA
club, begin with an Orlando club that lost all four meetings with
Detroit.


Richard Hamilton led a balanced Detroit attack with 19.8 points a
game while Chauncey Billups grabbed a team-high 7.2 rebounds a
game. Dwight Howard led the magic with 17.6 points a game.


Barring an upset shocker, the Pistons will face either defending
champion Miami or Chicago in the second round. The Bulls went 3-1
against the Heat this season and despite a lower seeding own the
home-court edge based on more wins.


Wade averaged 27.4 points and 7.5 assists in 51 games while
O'Neal averaged 17.3 points and 7.4 rebounds in 40 games but the
Heat will need both stars at their best to beat a Chicago squad
powered by Ben Gordon's 21.4 points a game.


James, fourth in the NBA with 27.3 points a game, sparks a
Cleveland team that went 2-1 against the Wizards this season but
Washington has lost stars Gilbert Arenas and Caron Butler to
injury and faded late in the season.


Toronto won the Atlantic Division crown by six games over New
Jersey but the Nets closed the season well to book a playoff date
against the Raptors, who went 2-1 against them in the season.


Former Toronto star Vincer Carter averaged 25.2 points a game to
ignite the Nets while Chris Bosh led Toronto with 22.6 a game.

