

With graduation ceremonies just three weeks away, Virginia Tech
University where 32 people were killed in a shooting spree was
deserted Thursday as officials urged students not to abandon
their studies.


"We are going to focus on the students first. The students are
going to have choices on about how they will complete the
semester," Provost Mark McNamee said.


The university has been shut since Monday when South Korean
student Cho Seung- Hui went on a killing spree here mowing down
five lecturers and 27 students in four classrooms.


As the tight-knit community turned in on itself in its grief and
incomprehension, some students, who have returned home to be with
their loved ones, have voiced fears about returning to the scene
of the carnage.


No one appeared sure Thursday how many of the campus's 26,000
full-time students would return on Monday when classes officially
resume.


Rumors had spread that the rest of the year, and graduation for
seniors, would be cancelled.


But McNamee rejected the gossip, saying the university planned to
offer students a number of choices on how to finish the academic
term, with final exams scheduled as usual for May 4-9 and the
commencement for graduating seniors set for May 11.


The university will give students until the last day of classes
to decide whether they want their grade to be based on the full
term's work or just on work performed prior to the April 16
shootings, the worst in US history.


"We are going to encourage them very strongly to continue in
their classes," McNamee said.


And he announced that the university would award posthumous
degrees to the 27 students killed by Cho in their field of study
to honor their deaths, with the degrees to be presented at the
official commencement on May 11.


"The families are very happy about this," he said.


Sam Mitchell, a senior from Annapolis, Maryland and one of the
few undergraduates that did not go home for the week, said he
expects almost all the students will come back on Monday.


"I think that they just want to see their families after all that
has happened."


Asked if the massacre would interfere his studies, Russian-born
Bostonian Anton Fionov said he couldn't allow that. "I have to
graduate in May. I have a job already lined up."


But one group of students will be a question mark: the unknown
number who escaped with their lives from Monday's carnage and who
could fear entering a classroom again after such a devastating
experience.


The still photos and videos from Cho's final manifesto broadcast
on televisions across the country since late Wednesday are
unlikely to help the campus recover from the trauma.


"The sadness is overwhelming," said architecture emeritus
professor Ellen Braaten as she gazed from her motorized
wheelchair onto a makeshift shrine at the campus center Thursday.


With 36 years teaching at Virginia Tech, she said it was her duty
to make sure the slaughter did not stop her students from
learning.


"I will offer them choices on their exams on Monday," she said.
"I have to."


She said Virginia Tech would survive the tragedy.


"The university is a microcosm of the world ... We'll stand
tall."

