

A former CIA operative wanted by Cuba and Venezuela for the 1976
bombing of a Cuban jet was freed on bond in Texas Thursday,
prompting protests from Havana which has demanded his
extradition.


Luis Posada Carriles, a fierce opponent of Cuban leader Fidel
Castro, was released Thursday morning, despite opposition from
relatives of 73 people killed in downing of the airliner.


"He was out of here this morning," said police officer Jerry
Payan, after Posada paid 350,000 dollars and was released pending
the start of his trial on May 11 on immigration fraud and other
charges.


His lawyers said Posada Carriles immediately left for Miami.
Earlier this month a US judge in El Paso said the Cuban-born
Venezuelan national could be released on bail on condition he
remain confined to his home in Miami and submitted to "electronic
monitoring."


But Cuban authorities swiftly criticized the release.


"Cuba energetically condemns this decision and holds the US
government fully responsible for the fact Posada Carriles is free
in Miami," said Dagoberto Rodriguez Barrera, who heads the
communist country's Interest Section in Washington.


Relatives of the victims also reacted with anger.


"We are deeply outraged," Camilo Rojo, who lost his father in the
bombing, told AFP in Cuba. "They are protecting the murderer of
our parents."


"It is a lack of respect for all victims of terrorism, not only
in Cuba but in the whole world," said Rojo.


Posada Carriles was detained in Venezuela in 1976 and convicted
of masterminding the downing of the Cuban jet off Barbados. But
he managed to escape from prison in 1985.


He was also sentenced to eight years' jail in Panama in a bomb
plot to assassinate Castro during an Ibero-American summit in
2000, and was pardoned four years later by then president Mireya
Moscoso.


Posada Carriles was detained by US immigration officials in May
2005 for entering the United States illegally.


US authorities have refused to extradite him to Venezuela or
Cuba, claiming he might be tortured there. They have tried to
deport Posada Carriles to another country, but have not found any
willing to accept him.


The Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency, which had
tried to block the release, criticized the judge's order.


The agency stressed one of the conditions for the release was
that Posada Carriles make "good faith efforts to obtain a travel
document from any government in the world."


"The supervision order does not affect Posada's removal order,"
ICE said. "Likewise, it does not constitute an admission to the
United States and it does not accord him any legal status in the
United States."


Havana and Caracas have hit back that Washington is harbouring a
known terrorist despite its claims to be waging a "war on
terror."


The Cuban foreign ministry has called the US indictment "a smoke
screen to grant him impunity for the serious crime of terrorism."


Declassified US documents show that Posada Carriles worked for
the CIA from 1965 to June 1976. He reportedly helped the US
government ferry supplies to the Contra rebels who waged a bloody
campaign to topple the socialist Sandinista government in
Nicaragua in the 1980s.

