

Rabbi Avraham Levine never imagined that years after immigrating
from Russia to Israel he would fall victim to a brutal anti-
Semitic attack in the heart of the Jewish state.


But less than three months ago, he was beaten up by teenage
skinheads as he walked home in the city of Petah Tikva on Tel
Aviv's outskirts.


"They jumped on me, beat me and cursed my mother in Russian, then
they returned with sticks and beat me up. My arm was broken but
only God saved my life," said Levine, 38, who arrived in Israel
from Russia in 1995.


"They shouted 'Zhids leave Russia!' In Russia, I would hit
someone if he said 'zhid.' How can someone do it in Israel?" he
said.


"Zhid" is a derogatory term in Russian for a Jew, roughly
equivalent to north America's "kike."


The number of incidents with a neo-Nazi, fascist or anti-Semitic
streak has increased dramatically over the past 15 years in the
Jewish state, which prides itself of being a safe haven for Jews
from all over the world, according to the Dmir Centre, which
monitors and assists victims of such attacks.


Although the Jewish state is no stranger to anti-Israeli attacks,
a new trend has developed since the 1990s -- anti-Semitic attacks
carried out by "Jewish" citizens, says the centre's chief Zalman
Gilichenski.


The vast majority of these incidents are thought to have been
carried out by Russian nationalists who identify with anti-
Semitic ideology, says Gilichenski.


"Nowadays it has become a phenomenon," says Gilichenski, a 40
-year-old ultra- Orthodox who had emigrated from Moldova in 1989.


The nationalists came to Israel as part of the massive
immigration wave from former Soviet states in the 1990s. While
they are Jewish under Israel's law of return -- meaning that
either they, one of their parents or one of their grandparents
are Jewish -- they do not consider themselves as Jews.


Gilichenski receives reports of anti-Semitic incidents in Israel
on a daily basis and he estimates there are some 500 incidents a
year in Israel.


Official figures are hard to come by -- the police, and justice
and interior ministries all refuse to provide statistics.


And Israeli police are reluctant to brand the incidents as anti-
Semitic, instead using the term vandalism for racist attacks and
desecration of graves and synagogues.


"The law does not provide us with the ability to even define an
incident in Israel as being of an anti-Semitic character, and
they all fall within the general term of vandalism," says one
justice ministry official who asked to remain anonymous.


Petah Tikva police station closed Levine's case without finding
the assailants, saying it was "an isolated case which does not
reflect a trend", even though a series of similar incidents have
occurred there in recent months.


Gilichenski says the authorities turn a blind eye:  "Israel is
very swift to criticise anti-Semitism abroad but remains silent
in the face of anti-Semitism within."


There is no law explicitly banning anti-Semitism in Israel,
because such a situation was never imagined by the lawmakers, he
said.


According to Gilichenski, the increasing trend is partly due to
the fact that out of the nearly 1.2 million immigrants who have
arrived from ex-Soviet states since the early 1990s, over 300,000
do not consider themselves Jews, according to official figures
from the Immigrant and Absorption Ministry.


"People who do not identify themselves as Jews arrive here, after
learning about the Jewish people from the most extreme sources of
anti-Semitism in former Soviet states," Gilichenski said.


"There is a group of several dozens anti-Semites in almost every
Israeli city. All in all, there are several hundreds neo-Nazis in
Israel," he says.


Despite the lack of official statistics, expressions of anti-
Semitism and neo- Nazism in Israel are abundant.


Dozens of school and synagogue walls have been sprayed with
swastikas and racist slurs in Russian in recent years. The most
serious incident was recorded when the great synagogue of Petah
Tikva was vandalised and desecrated with anti- Semitic slurs in
May 2005.


The same month, military police arrested a soldier of Soviet
origin who had a Nazi swastika tattooed on his arm and who said
he hated Jews.


Shortly afterwards, another soldier was indicted for setting up
the first neo- Nazi website in Israel, which included links to
the text of Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf and a photo of him and two
other soldiers performing a Nazi salute in uniform. He was
sentenced to 200 hours community service.


Avner Shalev, chairman of the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial
museum, says that the anti-Semitism in Israel reflects "popular
anti-Semitic stereotypes in Europe, especially Ukraine, which are
very hard to counter."


The extremists shy away from talking to reporters -- repeated
messages left at an Israeli Russian nationalist website, the
"Russian Nationalist Centre," went unanswered.


But the website itself offers a glimpse into the world of anti-
Semites who live, work and are citizens of the Jewish state.


Among its goals is to "accustom Russian people living in Israel
to Russian national culture and awaken national consciousness,"
to prevent "any and all forms of Russian people converting to
Judaism," to help Russians in Israel return to the motherland,
and prevent "Jews from returning to Russia."


In statements posted on the website, the nationalists say they
choose to live among the people they despise because their duty
is to help fellow Russians get in touch with their roots.


"If we don't help them choose their destiny, what kind of
nationalists are we?" says the site, vowing that "in any case
sooner or later we'll all return to Russia."


Faced with this grim reality, Gilichenski believes that "here in
Israel the phenomenon is much more dangerous because there are
many targets and potential victims."

