

Arsenal will seek respite from the boardroom infighting besetting
the club when they visit north London rivals Tottenham on
Saturday.


The most conservative boardroom in football was shaken to the
core on Wednesday when it was announced that vice-chairman David
Dein was to leave the Gunners after 24 years as the club's chief
power-broker.


His departure has wider implications as manager Arsene Wenger's
future has come into question due to his close friendship with
Dein.


It is thought that Dein will return to Arsenal and reclaim the
club by forming a partnership with American billionaire Stan
Kroenke, whose investment plans for Arsenal have been vehemently
resisted by long-serving members of the Gunners board.


In the meantime, Wenger has the task of safeguarding the club's
more immediate income stream by ensuring qualification for the
Champions League for a tenth season running.


Victories in the last seven days over Bolton and Manchester City
have strengthened their cause, and they go to Tottenham looking
to avoid a first defeat against their north London rivals for
nearly eight years.


Midfielder Tomas Rosicky said: "Both Bolton and Everton are
already sufficiently behind us and although we have not yet
definitely qualified for the Champions League, we can play the
rest of the league a little more relaxed.


"And we have a good chance of clinching the third spot ahead of
Liverpool. There are still four games to play in the competition
and already Saturday's one can be the key one to the final
results.


"We play the derby against Tottenham which is always a special
day for the fans. We have been successful in them this season, we
have beaten them 3-0 in the league and we also eliminated them
from the Carling Cup. If we did the same on Saturday, it would be
great."


Tottenham retain ambitions of qualifying for the UEFA Cup despite
being knocked out of the competition by a stylish Sevilla just
over a week ago.


A year ago their 1-1 draw at Highbury, Arsenal's former home, put
them in pole position to reserve Champions League football for
this season. But their defeat at West Ham on the last day of the
season saw them fall short.


Robbie Keane, who scored for Spurs at Arsenal that day, will miss
the game after sustaining a knee injury at Wigan last Sunday.


"It would mean everything to beat Arsenal. We've had some
disappointments this season, especially because we didn't manage
to get to a cup final," said Finnish midfielder Teemu Tainio.


"I thought we were going to beat them at home last season and at
Highbury, but we didn't. We've been close so many times and this
time we have to make sure it's not just close, but that it's
done.


"It's good that we've had a full week's preparation before
Arsenal, everyone knows how important this game is, we need the
points and it's a must-win game for us.


"Everyone knows how good Arsenal are and if you give them the
space, they will punish you because they have a lot of skilful,
technical players. We will look to start brightly again and I
feel confident that we can do it."

