

The wife of a Yahoo user jailed in China for promoting democracy
online is suing the Internet search engine company for helping
Chinese officials track him down and convict him.


A suit filed in federal court in San Francisco on Wednesday by
the wife of Wang Xiaoning accuses Yahoo of "aiding and abetting"
torture and human rights violations by linking her husband and
others to e-mail and online comments.


Yahoo was referred to 10 times in the Chinese court verdict on
September 12, 2003 that declared Wang guilty of "incitement to
subvert state power" and sentenced him to a decade in prison.


"I feel very angry," Wang's wife, Yu Ling, said after a news
conference on Thursday announcing the filing of the suit.


"Yahoo betrayed my husband for their business interests. They
literally destroyed my family. All my husband did was express his
political views."


The suit filed under the auspices of the US Alien Tort Claims Act
and the Torture Victim Protection Act names Chinese Internet
search engine Alibaba as a defendant along with Yahoo's
operations in China and Hong Kong.


The suit calls on the court to order Yahoo to stop cooperating
with requests by China to identify Internet users and to pressure
the government there to release Wang and others imprisoned as the
result of such shared information.


Wang is also demanding cash damages to be determined at trial,
according to her lead attorney, Morton Sklar of the World
Organization for Human Rights.


At least four journalists and human rights advocates are
imprisoned in China because of information provided by Yahoo,
according to Sklar.


Yahoo said it "is distressed that citizens in China have been
imprisoned for expressing their political views on the Internet"
but would not comment on the lawsuit until it had time to study
it.


"The concerns raised about the Chinese government compelling
companies to follow Chinese law and disclose user information are
not new," the Sunnyvale, California-based Internet search giant
said.


"Companies doing business in China must comply with Chinese law
or its local employees could be faced with civil and criminal
penalties."


Yahoo said that it has called on US officials to make freedom of
expression a priority in trade and diplomatic talks with China.


"We believe deeply in human rights, and as a company built on
openness, we strongly support free expression and privacy
globally," Yahoo said in a statement.


Yahoo could avoid giving user information to Chinese officials by
moving its computer servers used for e-mail out of that country,
said Reporters Without Borders director Lucie Morillon.


The France-based press rights organization is calling on Yahoo to
provide a list of all "cyber-dissidents" it has identified for
China.


"We believe Yahoo has not stopped collaborating with Chinese
authorities and that this is the tip of the iceberg," Morillon
told AFP.


"It is one thing to let Chinese authorities censor; helping put
cyber-dissidents in jails is quite another story," she continued,
referring to how search engines such as Google and Yahoo block
searches on terms such as "Tianamen Square" at the direction of
government officials.


Chinese journalists and dissidents trusted Yahoo more than local
companies to protect the confidentiality of their electronic
communications but Yahoo "betrayed them," according to Morillon.


Of the 63 known cyberdissidents jailed worldwide, 51 are in
China, according to Reporters Without Borders. China also has the
highest number of jailed journalists, with the count given at 31.


"China is the biggest prison in the world for journalists and
cyberdissidents," Morillon said.

