

Liverpoool winger Jermaine Pennant admits a man-of-the-match
performance against Wigan on Saturday may not be enough to secure
his place in his club's Champions League semi-final team.


Rafa Benitez's outfit entertain their struggling north west
rivals at Anfield in their final game before next Wednesday's
European first leg showdown with Chelsea at Stamford Bridge.


Pennant was impressive in the 2-0 victory over Middlesbrough on
Wednesday, a result which saw Liverpool reclaim third spot in the
Premiership table from Arsenal.


The 6.7-million-pound signing from Birmingham last July said
appearing in the last four of the Champions League would be the
highlight of his career.


But Pennant suspects Benitez might already have decided on his
team to face Chelsea.


"We've a game on Saturday before Chelsea and we need to put that
first," said the 24-year-old winger.


"We don't want to put Chelsea above all the others because we
need to stay focused. Then we'll see what the manager chooses for
the Chelsea game.


"If he wants someone who'll be more defensive on the right, he'll
probably look to Steven Gerrard because I'm an out-and-out winger
who doesn't have those defensive elements to my game.


"If the manager wants to go that way against Chelsea that's fair
enough, but he knows what I can do so whether I start or I'm on
the bench, it's not a problem."


Pennant believes he is starting to live up to the standards set
by Benitez after inspiring Liverpool to victory over
Middlesbrough, a result which leaves the club three points away
from confirming a top four finish.


"When the team's performing it's easier to play well yourself,"
said Pennant. "Your best comes out then and at the moment I'm
really enjoying my football.


"It's pleasing to have found a consistency level. That will be
pleasing to the manager and the rest of the boys as well.


"You want to do a good job and then you get rewarded for it. I
feel I'm having an impact on the games.


"I know the standards expected at Liverpool and I've known that
since the first day I came here. Every day is a learning curve
for me and the way we play football here is great for me.


"I feel we've been playing well and being part of this team helps
me get better and improves my confidence. We've a good cushion
now for the Champions League spot and we know with one more win,
we're safe."


Benitez is set to recall Xabi Alonso to the side. The Spanish
midfielder missed the Middlesbrough match with a slight groin
strain but expects to be available to face Wigan. Ireland full
back Steve Finnan could also return along with Chile winger Mark
Gonzalez.


Wigan are fighting against relegation but boss Paul Jewell, a
former Liverpool reserve player, insists his side are not going
to Anfield to roll over.


They are three points above the drop zone with home matches
against West Ham and Middlesbrough then Sheffield United away
after the weekend.


"Liverpool have obviously got a big game next week and they might
have one eye on it," admitted Jewell.


"But whatever side Rafa puts out you can be sure it'll be a very
good side."


Wigan will definitely be without former Liverpool keeper Chris
Kirkland who has undergone surgery on a shoulder injury. Kirkland
has missed the last two months with a thumb injury, but underwent
an operation to repair his long standing shoulder problem last
week.


Defender Fitz Hall has also been ruled out of the last four
matches with a damaged knee.

