

The dollar saw some relief from its slide against the other main
currencies Thursday as the Chinese yuan surged, prompting some
caution that eased some of the selling pressure on the greenback.


The euro edged up marginally to 1.3609 dollars at 2100 GMT from
from 1.3607 late Wednesday in New York, hovering near its all-
time high of 1.3666 dollars in late 2004.


The pound eased slightly to 2.0032 dollars from 2.0083 a day
after hitting a 26-year high and trading as high as 2.0133
dollars.


The US currency fetched 118.50 yen after 118.66 a day earlier.


The Chinese yuan, meanwhile, rose to 7.7165 to the dollar
Thursday, its highest level since Beijing announced a limited
floating of the currency, amid news that China's economy expanded
a robust 11.1 percent year-on-year in the first quarter.


"The dollar was able to rebound on another bout of risk aversion
that was triggered by Chinese growth and inflation numbers that
are expected to draw investment curbs and a withdrawal of
liquidity that threatens to cause ripple throughout global
markets," said John Kicklighter, currency analyst at Forex
Capital Markets.


Stephen Malyon at Scotiabank said the news from China kept
pressure on the yen and diminished interest in the "carry trade,"
using funds borrowed at Japan's super-low interest rates.


"The carry trade is under pressure and global equity markets and
commodity prices are lower after much stronger than expected
Chinese GDP, investment and inflation data prompted speculation
that authorities there will implement additional tightening
measures to slow the pace of growth," Malyon said.


The United States has long pressured Chinese authorities to allow
the yuan to appreciate more rapidly, arguing that the currency is
undervalued, thereby giving Chinese exports an unfair advantage
on world markets.


Meanwhile, rising European interest rates are luring foreign
investors to make short-term deposits in euros and pounds,
thereby increasing the value of those currencies on the foreign
exchange market.


The dollar's slide against the euro and sterling has left US
authorities silent, with analysts saying the weak greenback may
be a benefit for Washington and its preoccupation with Asia.


US officials "are not saying anything right now because they're
not especially worried about the weakening of the US exchange
rate, given that it has yet to put unwanted upward pressure on
Treasury bond yields," said John Lonski, chief economist at
Moody's Investors Service.


In the United States and Britain, key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


With the eurozone economy gaining momentum, the European Central
Bank is predicted to raise rates in the coming months at a time
when the US Federal Reserve, responding to a US slowdown, is
likely to trim borrowing costs.


The rate differential should make the euro more attractive to
traders, driving its value higher against the dollar.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2044 Swiss francs
after 1.2036 late Wednesday.

