

Bayern Munich captain Oliver Kahn has demanded 100 percent from
his side in Saturday's make-or-break tie at VfB Stuttgart with
the crucial third Champions League place at stake.


Bayern, currently fourth in the Bundesliga, face failing to
qualifying for the Champions League for the first time in 11
years and are still smarting from their quarter-final exit at the
hands of AC Milan.


Only success will satisfy Kahn.


Should the unthinkable happen and Bayern lose at third-placed
Stuttgart, a five-point gap will open and the German giants will
have a mountain to climb to salvage anything from their season.


"All of our focus is on this game, we must have the highest
levels of concentration from the first whistle to the last and it
must be 100 percent, not like the 95 we had against Milan," said
Kahn.


With big names like Hamburg's Rafael Van der Vaart, as well as
Werder Bremen pair Miroslav Klose and Diego being heavily courted
by Bayern, only the promise of Champions League football will
attract the top stars.


As England and Bayern midfielder Owen Hargreaves said in his
column for the BBC website: "It is of vital importance for this
club to be in the Champions league. We simply cannot afford not
to qualify for this competition."


While the financial implications of missing out on a place in the
elite European competition are considerable, Bayern's general
manager Karl-Heinz Rummenigge is also worried about the damage to
the club's image.


"This game is a final for us, we have won our last three
Bundesliga games and we must win this one too," he said.


Bayern are without influential midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger,
French international defender Willy Sagnol and Andreas Ottl.


In contrast, Stuttgart are in form and have won their last four
Bundesliga games, plus they beat VfL Wolfsburg 1-0 on Wednesday
to reach the German Cup final on May 26.


Meanwhile, second-placed Werder Bremen can expect to top the
table for 24 hours as they entertain relegation contenders
Alemannia Aachen on Friday.


Having scored three goals in his last two games, Klose is hitting
a scoring purple patch after breaking his goal drought.


But Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04, currently two points clear at
the top of the table, take on seventh-placed Energie Cottbus and
are expected to pick up their third-straight win with German
striker Kevin Kuranyi in good form.


Having broken their run of nine games without a win with last
weekend's 3-1 victory at VfL Bochum under new coach Karsten
Heine, mid-table Hertha Berlin host relegation candidates
Borussia Dortmund.


Dortmund, the 1997 Champions League winners, are one place and
just two points from a bottom-three place and have struggled for
form all season.


Fifth-placed Nuremberg will be defending their position when they
travel to Bayer Leverkusen who lie sixth and are just two points
away from a UEFA Cup place.


Nuremberg are on a roll at the moment having hammered Eintracht
Frankfurt 4-0 in Tuesday's German Cup semi-final and have only
lost once in their last six games.


But striker Markus Schroth has just announced he is leaving to
sign for second- division side 1860 Munich.


Mid-table VfL Wolfsburg, fresh from their German Cup semi-final
defeat, host third-from-bottom Arminia Bielefeld, while Eintracht
Frankfurt take on VfL Bochum and both are hovering above the
relegation zone.


On Sunday, eleventh-placed Hanover can expect to take three
points at home to Borussia Moenchengladbach, who have just five
games left to close the five point gap between them and Mainz,
who are at Hamburg, also on Sunday.


Friday


Werder Bremen v Alemania Aachen


Saturday


Bayer Leverkusen v Nuremberg


Eintracht Frankfurt v VFL Bochum


Hertha Berlin v Borussia Dortmund


Schalke 04 v Energie Cottbus


VfB Stuttgart v Bayern Munich


Wolfsburg v Arminia Bielefeld


Sunday


Hamburg v Mainz 05


Hanover v Borussia M'gladbach

