

Acclaimed horror film director Wes Craven on Thursday rejected
accusations that violent movies share the blame for Cho Seung-
Hui's murderous rampage at Virginia Tech.


The bloody South Korean revenge movie "Oldboy" has been cited as
a possible inspiration for Cho after the discovery of a photo of
him striking a menacing pose with a claw hammer that is similar
to a shot from the film.


Korean national Cho took his own life on Monday after gunning
down 32 students and staff at Virginia Tech in the deadliest mass
shooting in American history.


Craven, the man behind spine-chilling flicks such as the
"Nightmare on Elm Street" and "The Hills Have Eyes," said spree
killers such as Cho were usually driven to violence by events
early in their lives.


"If someone has violent thoughts, they're going to be attracted
to things with violence in them," Craven told AFP. "But are those
things making them have violent thoughts? I don't believe so.


"You usually have to go way back to the beginning, to look at an
individual's past, or what their brain waves are telling them,
before you can start making any sort of conclusions.


"Horror films and violent films are not a cause of violence
itself," he added, while acknowledging that he always tried to
avoid glamorizing violence in his movies.


"Every time I do a film with violence in it I try to not make it
look cool," said Craven, who was speaking in Beverly Hills during
a publicity event for his involvement in independent French movie
"Paris, je t'aime."


Craven, 67, said he was angered when authorities sought to blame
Hollywood for tragedies like the one at Virginia Tech, suggesting
that the daily reports of mayhem in from Iraq were more violent.


"There's a lot of violence out there," Craven said. "Like
starting a war where 150 people were killed in one day alone.
Those are real bodies," he said, referring to the bombings in
Baghdad on Wednesday that claimed 172 lives.


"There's a part of me that sees red when people start pointing
the finger at film-makers. This is a very violent world right
now. And there's a tremendous amount of focus on this violence
with the war."


Craven also said he believed that the fact that President George
W. Bush's administration had sanctioned interrogation techniques
such as "water-boarding" lay behind a spate of recent films that
included graphic torture sequences.


Horror films such as "Hostel," "Saw," "Wolf Creek" and "Turistas"
have been dubbed "torture porn," while popular television shows
like "24" have also stirred up debate.


"It doesn't surprise me that there's a lot of torture in horror
films, because it's coming out more and more that it has been
happening, whether it's Iraq, or the CIA taking people off to
secret prisons," Craven said.


"That's the reality -- so it's going to creep into films."

