

Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir and his Eritrean counterpart
will on Saturday discuss how to kick-start peace talks with
rebels who refused to sign a peace accord to end the violence in
Darfur.


The visit by President Issaias Afeworki, who has long mediated
between Khartoum and holdout rebel groups, is part of "efforts
for a political solution in Darfur to include the non-
signatories," Sudanese presidential adviser Mustafa Osman said on
Thursday.


"We have always been ready to hold talks with any group, wherever
and without conditions, but it is the United States and Great
Britain that are putting a spanner in the works," Osman said
after London and Washington on Wednesday threatened Sudan with
sanctions, accusing it of not doing enough to end the conflict.


A peace deal was signed in May 2006 between Khartoum and just one
of three negotiating Darfur rebel factions, with the aim of
ending the conflict.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations. Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say
the death toll is much higher.


Osman also said that Chadian President Idriss Deby Itno would
visit Khartoum in the coming days, to smooth bilateral relations
which nosedived after deadly border clashes between forces of the
neighbouring countries earlier this month.


Asmara sent an envoy to Tripoli last week to join talks between
Sudanese and Chadian officials aimed at easing tensions.


Chad has since apologised for the cross-border action of its
forces, explaining that it was not deliberate and that they were
in hot pursuit of rebels who had just attacked several Chadian
villages.


Sudan says it lost 17 of its troops in the attack and the
Chadians say 30 were killed overall.


Chad and Sudan accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Sudan's western Darfur region will spill
over into Chad and ignite a regional war.


"The normalisation of Sudanese-Chadian relations is an essential
element in the search for a solution in Darfur," Osman said on
Thursday.

