

When Brazilian female football star Marta Vieira da Silva was
offered the chance to play for Swedish side Umeaa, she jumped at
the opportunity. Umeaa is one of the best teams in the world,
drawing the top female players -- the latest from China.


In Sweden, a bastion of gender equality, "there is much more
interest in women's football. Here, I get help, in Brazil I
didn't get any help," said the 21-year- old forward who now
speaks Swedish after three years in the country, albeit with a
heavy Portuguese accent.


"It was a little hard with the language, but the hardest thing
was the climate," she laughed, a pink baseball cap on her head,
recalling the bitterly-cold winter temperatures of minus 20
degrees C (minus four degrees F).


But her hard work in Sweden paid off. In December, FIFA, the
world football's ruling body, voted her the top player of 2006.
Her face lights up at the mention of the prize.


She hopes that the distinction will help improve conditions for
women footballers in Brazil, where a "macho" attitude prevails,
she said.


Sitting in the kitchen of Umeaa IK's clubhouse, located near the
Umeaa stadium and where the walls are adorned with the team's
many trophies, Vieira da Silva gesticulates wildly as she talks
and plays with her cell phone and keys.


It's easy to see that she is an impatient young woman, both in
life and on the field.


According to Umeaa IK coach Andree Jeglertz, Vieira da Silva is a
"an unparalleled player ... there's no one like her."


From a modest family in Alagoas in northeastern Brazil, Vieira da
Silva left home for Rio de Janeiro at the age of 14 to join the
club Vasco de Gama. She attended school between the ages of nine
and 14, but hopes to resume her schooling one day when her
football career is over.


With the money she earns playing in Umeaa -- she does not want to
disclose the amount -- she is able to help out her family and put
a little aside for herself.


Umeaa IK is Sweden's top team, and has won the premiership five
times and the UEFA Cup twice. The club is ranked fourth in the
world behind the United States, Germany and Norway, according to
FIFA.


The club has attracted other foreign talents in addition to
Vieira da Silva, including Elaine Moura, another Brazilian
player, and Ramona Bachmann of Switzerland.


The latest recruit is Chinese star Ma Xiaoxu, who was recently
named Asia's top player. The 18-year-old forward from Chinese
side Dalian Shide arrived in Umeaa in March after signing a six-
month contract.


She will return home in time for the 2007 women's World Cup, to
be played in China this autumn.


Umeaa IK "is a great team, the best in Europe ... I hope to
return home with a lot of positive experiences," she said.


But the first weeks in Sweden have been difficult for her.
"Xiao", as her teammates call her, speaks neither Swedish nor
English.


"I feel very alone," she said through an interpreter.


On the field however "there's no problem."


"We sometimes draw pictures to communicate with the coach," she
said.


Hanna Ljungberg is Sweden's biggest football star and has been a
member of Umeaa IK for years, despite lucrative offers from
abroad and other Swedish teams for the 28-year-old striker.


According to Swedish daily Dagens Nyheter, Umeaa IK now has a
"terrible trio of strikers."


On Saturday, the team will defend its UEFA Cup title in a match
against British club Arsenal.


"We're psyched," said Hanna Ljungberg, her freckles and blue eyes
sparkling as she heads out for the team's afternoon practice.


"Arsenal is a good team, it'll be a good fight."

