

The United States struggled Thursday to ease Russian fears about
plans to extend its vast missile shield into Europe, as Moscow
brushed off for the time being an offer to cooperate on the
project.


At NATO headquarters in Brussels, a US delegation persuaded
Washington's partners that the shield poses no threat to Russia,
even though Moscow is concerned the system could be widened in
the future.


"The allies were convinced and are convinced that there are no
implications of the United States' system for the strategic
balance," NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said after
the highest-level talks ever on the issue.


"Ten interceptors will not, cannot affect the strategic balance
and 10 interceptors cannot pose a threat to Russia," he said,
after meetings between the 26 NATO allies followed by a so-called
NATO-Russia Council.


Washington announced in January plans to extend its missile
shield into Europe to counter a potential missile attack from
"rogue states" like Iran, and possibly North Korea.


It would involve 10 missile interceptors without warheads set up
in Poland and a radar system in the Czech Republic to track any
attack. This would be linked to an advance warning system,
probably in the Caucasus.


The move has ruffled feathers in Russia, which is deeply
concerned about its former Cold War foe setting up military shop
in its back yard.


"We cannot understand what Eastern Europe needs this system for,"
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, a former Russian
defence minister, said Thursday.


Washington has tried to ease Russia's concerns by suggesting
possible areas of cooperation, including sharing early warning
missile data, but Ivanov appeared to reject the offer.


"I honestly see no basis for speaking of possible cooperation,"
he was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency.


Scheffer aknowledged "a difference in threat perception" between
the allies and Russia. "There is a clearly a divide," he said.


But US Assistant Secretary of State John Rood, part of the senior
three-man team charged with easing Russia's fears and European
doubts, said that Moscow still plans to weigh the proposals.


"The representatives in the NATO-Russia Council today...
indicated that the Russian government was going to study our
proposal in greater detail before providing a more full
response," he said.


Russian representative Konstantin Totsky conceded the offer had
not been rejected yet, but he said that Moscow has grown tired of
being dictated to by Washington.


"The US colleagues give us their proposals, and then we give them
our proposals and we can continue like this for years and call it
a process of consultation," he said.


"I think we should have a transition from consultation to
dialogue and I think we started this dialogue today," he said,
adding: "We will scrutinise these proposals and we will come back
to our US colleagues."


He also expressed concern that the missile shield, set to come
into operation around 2013, would continue to grow.


"We know from experience that when you have a system it keeps
developing, it cannot stop," he warned.


European allies are concerned about the system too, particularly
that it would leave members Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey
uncovered, and they insisted on the "indivisibility" of the
alliance's defences.


Spokesman James Appathurai said that NATO also discussed "bolting
on" its planned theatre defence missile system -- aimed at
protecting troops in the field but still only in the testing
phase -- to the shield to cover the hole.


In any case, talks are set to continue.


Ivanov and US Defense Secretary Robert Gates may discuss the plan
during a Moscow meeting next week, and the NATO allies will take
it up again when alliance foreign ministers hold talks in Olso
next Thursday.

