

An "obsessed" Australian museum worker who stole thousands of
exhibits, including a stuffed lion and a rare dolphin skeleton,
was jailed for seven years Friday.


A Sydney court was told Henk van Leeuwen stole exhibits while
working for the Australian Museum from 1996 to 2003 as a pest
controller and skeleton moulder.


Anti-corruption officers raided the homes of van Leeuwen and two
associates in 2003, finding more than 2,000 items from
Australia's oldest natural history museum hidden in sheds,
fridges and freezers.


They included a stuffed lion acquired by the museum in 1911, the
skeletal remains of a Ganges River dolphin, leopard and jaguar
skins, as well as numerous skulls, skeletons and animal specimens
preserved in formaldehyde.


An earlier court hearing was told the combined value of the hoard
totalled one million dollars (835,000 US), with the lion alone
worth 50,000 dollars.


Van Leeuwen, 50, pleaded guilty to 15 counts of stealing.


Judge Peter Berman rejected van Leeuwen's defence that he took
the items because he wanted to protect them and said he was
"obsessed" with collecting and wanted to possess the stolen
specimens.


Berman sentenced him to seven years jail with a five-year non-
parole period, saying he had done "enormous, incalculable harm
through his criminal activities".


"Many of the exhibits are unique and irreplaceable," the judge
said.


"Through his selfish actions he has cost the Australian Museum
not only a great deal of money but damaged its reputation and,
perhaps most importantly of all, caused permanent harm to the
ability of scientists to study many aspects of the natural
history of Australia and the rest of the world."


Van Leeuwen described himself as an eccentric in a 2003 interview
with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


"It takes hold of you after a while," he said. "I'm more or less
like a Clark Kent. By day I'm a mild-mannered pest control
officer and by night I'm a fanatic taxidermist."


In the interview he said museum staff failed to understand his
vision of creating a entrepreneurial-style museum that could use
exhibits to generate much of its own income.

