

Protesters in southern Bolivia on Thursday released 58 police
they had captured one day earlier as demands for a larger share
of natural gas revenues escalated in violent clashes.


However, a thousand protesters seized another site nearby,
belonging to Brazil's state-owned Petrobras, but did not shut off
the lines supplying large parts of Brazil with gas.


Border Police commander Colonel Jaime Reyes said the officers
were freed following an agreement between the Bolivian government
and local authorities in the southern town of Yacuiba.


Reyes was one of the police officers captured by demonstrators on
Wednesday, one day after violent clashes left one person dead and
20 more injured as local residents stormed a natural gas pumping
facility operated by the Transredes subsidiary of Anglo-Dutch
energy firm Royal Dutch Shell.


The demonstrators also cut off roads leading to nearby Argentina
as well as Paraguay and vandalized the Transredes facility.


Protests were also held in the nearby town of Villamontes, as
residents of Gran Chaco province demanded greater share of
royalties from the huge Margarita natural gas field amid rival
claims by the neighboring O'Connor province.


Authorities rejected the protesters' demand that the pipeline
that supplies 7.7 million cubic meters (272 million cubic feet)
of natural gas a day to Argentina be shut off until the dispute
is resolved.


"The national government cannot accept this because it would be a
crime against the national economy," said presidential spokesman
Alex Contreras. "We cannot lose 1.5 million dollars a day because
valves are shut off."


The official stressed natural gas supplies to Argentina were not
affected by the protests.


While it is not yet fully operational, the Margarita gas field,
which at the center of the dispute, is believed to contain 20
percent of Bolivia's proven and probable natural gas reserves,
which authorities say total 1.55 trillion cubic meters (54.74
trillion cubic feet).


Royalties from the field, operated by Spain's Repsol YPF,
amounted to 25 million dollars last year, when President Evo
Morales announced that Bolivia's oil and gas contracts with
foreign operators would be renegotiated.


Congress on Thursday approved of those 44 contracts with 10
transnationals, giving Bolivia majority control of the energy
sector.


South America's poorest country, Bolivia has the region's second-
largest natural gas reserves, after Venezuela.

