

Al-Qaeda in Iraq is expected to press a campaign of high profile
bombings to defeat US efforts to stabilize Baghdad, a senior US
military official said Thursday.


"We should have realistic expectations. These high-profile
attacks are going to continue," said Major General Michael
Barbero, the Joint Staff's deputy director for regional
operations.


The general spoke the day after 190 people were killed in a
string of car bombings in and around Baghdad, rocking confidence
in US plans to restore a semblance of order in the Iraqi capital
with a surge of US and Iraqi forces.


Barbero said that after an initial drop in activity, the Sunni
extremist groups were back on the offensive.


Attacks have been on the rise in the week.


A suicide bomber penetrated the fortified Green Zone and blew
himself up inside the Iraqi parliament building on April 12,
killing a member of parliament and wounding 22 other people.


A suicide bomber killed 42 people in the Shiite shrine city of
Karbala April 14; and a spate of car bombings the following day
killed 35 people in Baghdad.


Wednesday's onslaught included the single deadliest car bombing
since the US invasion in 2003, a car bombing in a market place
that killed 140 people.


Al-Qaeda in Iraq claimed the bombing in parliament and Barbero
said it was assumed to have carried out the other attacks because
car bombings are the group's signature weapon.


"It's, you know, action on our part, and now we're seeing the
reaction on their part," Barbero said. "And it'll be like that
until we can defeat these forces."


He said the US military was going after the extremist networks
and their supply chains, but were also building barriers around
market places and other likely targets of bombings.


"If you look at yesterday in isolation, then it's not a good
story and ... we're not being successful," he said.


"If you take a longer term view, from the start of this operation
to where we are now, there are some indicators of success," he
said.


He said sectarian murders in Baghdad were down, and violence in
the western Anbar province has diminished greatly because Sunni
tribal leaders there have turned on Al-Qaeda in Iraq.

