

Australia captain Ricky Ponting has promised the world champions
have plans to curb the run-scoring of New Zealand all-rounder
Scott Styris.


The trans-Tasman rivals, both already into the last four,
complete their Super Eights campaign against one another at
Grenada's National Stadium here Friday, in what could be a dress
rehearsal for the April 28 final in Barbados, with Australia well
aware of Styris's fine form.


Styris, 31, lies fourth in the tournament's list of leading
scorers, a place ahead of Ponting, with 435 runs at an
exceptional average of 108.75, boosted by an unbeaten 111 in the
loss to Sri Lanka - the Black Caps' only defeat in this World Cup
to date.


As well as that hundred, Styris has scored four other fifties and
has often proved a steadying influence on the New Zealand innings
in the event early wickets have been lost.


"He's the fourth leading run-scorer in the tournament, that must
mean he's done a lot of things very well," said Ponting.


"These conditions suit the way he plays, the slower lower
wickets. He plays spin pretty well. We've got a few things up our
sleeve which we'll have to execute well against him and make sure
he doesn't get away from us.


"What he has done in the tournament is bat for long periods of
time. He might not have necessarily got his runs at a 100 percent
strike-rate but he's been there and thereabouts, anchored their
innings and played very well.


"We are going to have to come up with a few things to try to
hopefully get him out early."


Earlier this week Styris said this New Zealand team had the best
chance of bringing home the country's first World Cup title.


"If they fancy their chances in the tournament, they've done what
they had to do along the way to be able to speak that way,"
Ponting, captain of a team unbeaten in 26 World Cup matches,
said.


"I'm looking forward to the game. I think it will be a good
indicator for both teams of where they are at."


In February, against a weakened team, hosts New Zealand beat
Australia 3-0 in the Chappell-Hadlee series.


"I've regarded New Zealand as a very good one-day team for a
number of years now. We have got a very good record against them
although they've won their last three games against us," Ponting
said.

