

Australia captain Ricky Ponting believes Jacob Oram will be a big
loss for New Zealand after the all-rounder was ruled out of
Friday's World Cup Super Eights match against the champions with
a recurrence of a heel injury.


"He's a pretty important player for their side, no doubt about
that. He's lifted his game quite dramatically over the last
couple of years," said Ponting.


"He's a very reliable batsman late in the innings for them, he's
a big strong guy that can clear the fence and do it pretty well.


"His bowling skills and his catching skills are pretty important
to them. He'll be a big loss for them and it will be interesting
to see which one of their quick bowlers they'll replace him
with."


New Zealand coach John Bracewell, asked earlier Thursday if the
giant pace- bowling all-rounder would be fit for Tuesday's semi-
final in Jamaica, where the Black Caps are set to face Sri Lanka,
replied: "Yes. That's one of the reasons why he's not playing.
It's a precautionary thing.


"He had it (the injury) for a period of time during the home
series. The diagnosis is that the initial impact is the worse
case scenario, but he's been able to nurse it through. All of a
sudden it's got a little bit more serious, so we've just got to
take it easy.


"It's starting to get better with rest already so that's a good
indication for us."


Australia are also already through to the semi-finals, meaning
Friday's match is not a decisive one for either side.


Oram, 28, has scored 162 runs at an average of 40.50 at this
World Cup and taken nine wickets at 21.33 apiece.


Pace bowlers Michael Mason and Mark Gillespie could now both
feature on Friday, with off-spinner Jeetan Patel omitted, as New
Zealand prepare for the expected bouncier pitch at Jamaica's
Sabina Park.


New Zealand, who've never won the World Cup, would have to beat
Australia by a huge margin to overtake the double-defending
champions on run-rate at the top of the standings.


They head into Friday's game looking for a fourth straight one-
day win over Australia following a 3-0 success in February's
Chappell-Hadlee Trophy series in New Zealand, where the Black
Caps achieved two of the three highest totals batting second to
win a one-day international.


"It's an important game because it's playing against the number
one ranked side in the world. It's also our neighbours, a
traditional rival and it's something we always look forward to,
the trans-Tasman battle," Bracewell said.


"We also know the seriousness with which Australia take their
cricket and their revenge mentality."


Sri Lanka, already through to the semi-finals, caused controversy
when they omitted star bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah
Muralitharan against Australia during a seven-wicket defeat here
Monday.


But Bracewell said he had no thoughts of resting New Zealand
spearhead quick Shane Bond.


"The Australians have seen Shane over the last six months.
They'll have enough data on him, enough information on him. He
doesn't bowl anything that's unusual or they are not ready to
take on, it's whether they can deal with it." Australia, bidding
for an unprecedented third straight World Cup title, are set to
play South Africa in the second semi-final in St Lucia on
Wednesday.


The World Cup final is on Saturday, April 28 in Barbados.

