

Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo called on election officials
to crack down on vote rigging Friday ahead of a crucial
presidential poll, while also asking foreign observers for
understanding.


"The world is watching us and we cannot afford to disappoint
ourselves, our friends and the world," he said in a special
nationwide radio and television broadcast to mark Saturday's
poll.


He appealed to election observers not to exaggerate the situation
in Nigeria, a country which has a history of violence and
electoral fraud that has often led to violence.


"I appeal to our local and international observers to understand
some of our limitations as a complex developing nation and not to
exaggerate the negative and thereby throw out the baby with the
bath water," Obasanjo said.


Obasanjo, who came into office in May 1999 to end almost 16 years
of military rule, said efforts had been made to improve on the
shortcomings of past elections.


The lead-up to Saturday's ballot has been marred by accusations
of fraud and vote-rigging in last weekend's elections for
provincial governors and legislatures. At least 20 people were
killed in violence surrounding the regional polls.


Eighteen opposition parties responded by threatening to boycott
the presidential election unless it was postponed until
"transparency and fairness" could be guaranteed.


The United States, the European Union and rights groups expressed
serious reservations over the polls and called on Nigeria's
government to take immediate action to prevent the electoral
misconduct.


The election to choose a successor to Obasanjo is being billed as
the first civilian-to-civilian handover since the world's sixth
biggest oil exporter won independence from Britain in 1960.


Obasanjo admitted that the conduct of last week's election was
"marred" but said electoral malpractice including "massive
rigging" which have characterised past elections were on the
decline.


"Let us continue to improve on the structure and the house rather
than pull it down because it is leaking in part," he said.


"I call on INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) do
everything possible to strengthen the integrity of the process,
the system and the outcome.


"There is no perfect society but other societies identify their
weaknesses and shortcomings and collectively make correction by
strengthening the positive and eliminating the negative."


He also urged aggrieved candidates and their supporters to
"explore all avenues for seeking redress rather than taking to
jungle justice and running down the totality of our country and
all it stands for."

