

'Goals galore!' is likely to be the common call from hungry fans
this weekend after the statistical debacle which has caused
plenty of navel-gazing in the French first division.


An all-time French league low of eight goals from 10 games last
weekend had alarm bells ringing among football watchers, who were
left wondering whether the league really did lack potent
strikers, or boasted superb goalkeepers.


To rub salt into the wounds, the unenvious statistic came in the
wake of three clubs from England - where the Premiership served
up 23 goals in only eight games - celebrating semi-final spots in
the Champions League.


League leaders Lyon never made it that far this season, and
Gerard Houllier's men limp into Sunday's away match at Auxerre
crowned, albeit unofficially, the league champions for the sixth
consecutive season.


Lyon disappointed their home fans, with another scoreless draw to
boot, against Rennes on Wednesday when they were left without the
win that would have mathematically secured the title.


The home fans were whistling by half time, and at the end
Houllier was at pains to look on the positive side.


"I'm sorry we didn't finish with a win, but for me this point is
the title point. We're the champions," said Houllier, who will go
down in history as the man who led the club to a record-setting
sixth straight crown.


Meanwhile the respective battles for places in Europe, and to
stay in the top flight, continue apace.


Paris St Germain's attempt to beat the drop could improve when
they host struggling Nantes in Saturday's early match.


The Canaries had their wings clipped 3-0 by Marseille in midweek,
and remain rooted to the bottom of the table.


Only two points separate the bottom three relegation-threatened
teams, and Nantes coach Michel Derzakarian was unequivocal about
what they must do against PSG, who are in 17th place.


"Now, we have only one objective: rest before Saturday, clear our
heads and start focusing on the match against Paris St Germain,"
he said after their 14th defeat of the season.


"We must try as hard as possible to bring three points back from
Paris."


The French league qualifies two teams directly for the Champions
League, the third place finisher securing entry to the
competition's qualifying round.


That is more than enough motivation for this season's surprise
packages Toulouse, who sit in second place on 52 points ahead of
their trip to Rennes.


Toulouse have been one of the most consistent teams of the season
but their coach, Elie Baup, is refusing to get carried away with
the prospect of joining the giants of European football in the
continent's premier club competition.


"Our mission will only end on the 38th matchday of the season,"
said Baup.


"Right now, it is to stay in the top half of the league. One day
I hope we can start each season by announcing our Champions
League ambitions, but we are a long way from being able to do
that."


Lens, who sit only two points behind Toulouse in third, look a
sure bet for three points when they host Le Mans.


Bordeaux sit in fourth and are currently qualified for the UEFA
Cup, but despite their 3-0 win over Nancy in midweek their coach
Ricardo is hesitant about Sunday's tough away encounter at Saint
Etienne.


"I'm still not convinced with our season, and nothing has been
decided yet," he said. "We have to beat Saint Etienne away, and
we haven't won much away from home this season."


Saturday


Paris St Germain v Nantes


Rennes v Toulouse


Lens v Le Mans


Sochaux v Lorient


Marseille v Troyes


Monaco v Lille


Nancy v Valenciennes


Sedan v Nice


Sunday


Auxerre v Lyon


Saint Etienne v Bordeaux

