

Mawise Gumba was confident that he would have little trouble
finding work in his old profession as a maths teacher when he
turned his back on his native Zimbabwe and crossed the border
into Mozambique.


But like so many of the estimated three million Zimbabweans who
have fled the chaos of President Robert Mugabe, he found that his
qualifications counted for little in a country that was once seen
as a poor relation.


"I've had a pretty hard time of it so far: hunger, thirst,
sleeping in the street -- the whole lot," says the 38-year-old
who now has to hawk traditional sculptures and paintings from a
street stall in the capital Maputo.


"I thought that I would be easily able to get work as a teacher
but when I got here I found that it was impossible because of my
lack of Portuguese so I had to set up this stall."


Zimbabwe was considered one of Africa's post-colonial success
stories in the first two decades after independence from Britain
in 1980, with Mugabe credited with producing one of the
continent's best educated populations.


In contrast, Mozambique spent the 1980s mired in civil war that
continues to stunt the growth of the former Portuguese colony
which had gained independence five years earlier than its western
neighbour.


But a programme of land reforms launched in 2000, involving the
often violent expropriation of white-owned farms, precipitated a
downward spiral in the economy of Zimbabwe. It now has the
highest inflation rate in the world at 1,730 percent and 80
percent of the population is living in poverty.


"I left when I decided that for as long as Mugabe stays in power,
the situation is only going to get worse," says Gumba.


While Gumba came to a decision to quit his homeland a couple of
years, journalist Mike Mpani wanted to stay and try and bring
about the 83-year-old Mugabe's downfall.


But Mpani, an active supporter of Zimbabwe's main opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), eventually fled at the
start of the year when he began to worry about his personal
security.


"Towards the end of last year, by taking part in a public
protest, and through my articles, my membership of the MDC became
clear.


"After that, both myself and a number of other MDC supporters
were arrested and beaten by Mugabe's men. They threatened that we
would end up dead if we continued campaigning for our party."


The political climate has become even more repressive in the last
few weeks with the authorities announcing a ban on political
protests in February and then crushing a planned mass prayer
rally, assaulting MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai and other
opposition activists in the process.


Accompanied by a fellow activist, Mpani travelled across Zimbabwe
by bus and crossed the border into the central Mozambican
province of Manica before eventually making it to the capital,
without a cent to his name.


"When we arrived in Maputo, we had nothing. After two days, we
went to the UNHCR (the United Nations' refugee agency).


"They told us that they couldn't do anything for us. But even so,
they gave us some money to buy some food and to catch the bus to
wherever we want."


Mozambique, in common with all the countries in southern Africa,
does not accord refugee status to those who flee Zimbabwe.


"Since the end of the year, nearly a thousand Zimbabweans,
especially in Manica province, have come to see us and asked for
refugee status."


"But that's not possible at the moment", a source at the national
migration office told AFP, speaking on condition of anonymity.


"All that we can do is to to advise them to go to the immigration
services to see if there is another way to regularise their
stay," added Alberto de Deus, director of Mozambique's national
refugee support institute (INAR).


The UNHCR, which drew up a special emergency plan to deal with
Zimbabwean refugees, estimates that around 5,000 of them need
help in Mozambique but admits that it is largely impotent.


"At the end of last year, we wrote to the Mozambican government
asking it to change their stance but we have not received any
response so far," said Victoria Akyeampong, the UN agency's local
representative.


"Many Zimbabweans come to us for help ... We give them enough
money to buy food for a couple of weeks and to travel where they
want to go. It's all we can do."


Mpani has used the money to rent out a small room in Maputo but
he has no intention of hanging around in Mozambique for the long-
term.


"I am giving some English courses, while waiting for something
better. I am going to try and get to South Africa. I have some
family over there."

