

Syria, where parliamentary elections take place on Sunday, is a
country steeped in human history which today remains embroiled in
some of the world's most intractable dramas.


In addition to the decades-long conflict with Israel to the south
and continuing controversy over its role in Lebanon to the west,
Syria has since 2003 found itself on the front lines of the US-
initiated war in Iraq, to its east.


A brief factfile:


HISTORY: Since ancient times what is today Syria has been ruled,
among others, by the Persians, the Greeks, the Romans, the
Byzantines and a series of Islamic empires concluding with the
Ottoman, which collapsed in the early 20th century.


The country is home to many historic sites, and it was on the
road to its capital Damascus -- one of the oldest cities in the
world -- that the Christian apostle Saint Paul "saw the light"
and became converted.


Syria's modern borders were defined after World War I, when it
came under French administration and was shorn of several
territories including what is today Lebanon.


Independence after World War II brought a series of coups,
culminating with a military regime under Hafez al-Assad, whose
son Bashar al-Assad succeeded him on his death in 2000 and is
still in power today.


Under the elder Assad, Syria was for many years close to the
Soviet Union and professed strong Arab nationalism, although a
split with the dominant party in neighbouring in Iraq led it to
form a long-lasting alliance with Iran.


In the 1967 Arab-Israeli war Syria lost the strategic Golan
Heights to Israel. A decade later Assad's military intervention
in Lebanon was at first welcomed by the West but later turned
sour, ending only in 2005.


Since 2004 the United States has imposed economic sanctions on
Syria, accusing it of supporting terrorism.


In recent years Syria has taken in some one million Iraqi
refugees, fleeing the effects of the US-led invasion of 2003.


GEOGRAPHY AND POPULATION: At 185,000 square kilometres (71,000
square miles), Syria is slightly smaller than Britain. It has a
population of 19 million, almost all Arabs, with small Armenian
and Kurdish minorities.


ECONOMY: Syria has modest amounts of oil, and farming accounts
for around a third of its gross domestic product. The World Bank
classifies Syria as a middle income country, with a per capita
GDP of 1,200 dollars in 2006.

