

The Ottawa Senators and Anaheim Ducks booked their second-round
berths in the National Hockey League playoffs with victories on
Thursday.


The Senators brought Sidney Crosby's first postseason to a
disappointing end with a 3-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Penguins
that gave them a 4-1 triumph in the best-of-seven Eastern
Conference series.


Antoine Vermette and Chris Kelly each had a goal and an assist
and Ray Emery made 20 saves for the Senators, who also had a goal
from Dany Heatley.


Crosby, the face of the new NHL, became the youngest player in
league history to win the Art Ross Trophy this season, collecting
120 points in 79 games.


The 19-year-old superstar recorded three goals - including the
winner in game two - and two assists in this series, but it was
not enough for the Penguins to overcome the Senators' tremendous
advantage in playoff experience.


The Ducks also locked up their first-round series at home, with a
4-1 victory over the Minnesota Wild giving them a 4-1 series
triumph.


Defenseman Chris Pronger had a goal and an assist and Ryan
Getzlaf netted the decisive tally as the Ducks advanced to the
Western Conference second round.


Rookie Dustin Penner, Samuel Pahlsson and defenseman Scott
Niedermayer each collected two assists for Anaheim, which
improved to 8-1 all-time against Minnesota in the playoffs.


After sweeping the Wild in the 2003 conference finals, the Ducks
posted one-goal victories in each of the first three games of
this series before dropping a 4-1 decision in Minnesota on
Tuesday.


But they got back on track quickly on Thursday as Pronger scored
62 seconds into the game and Getzlaf scored a power-play goal
late in the second period to snap a tie and put Anaheim ahead for
good.


Corey Perry added an insurance tally midway through the third and
Travis Moen added an empty-net goal in the final minute to seal
the win.


Making his first start of the series, Jean-Sebastien Giguere made
26 saves for the second-seeded Ducks.


Marian Gaborik scored the lone goal and Niklas Backstrom stopped
35 shots for the Wild.


The Vancouver Canucks had a chance to clinch a second-round berth
at home, but were edged 1-0 in overtime by the Dallas Stars, who
narrowed the series score to 3-2.

