

The US college town forever to be remembered as the scene of a
mass murder was Thursday struggling to find a way to come to
terms with both its grief and its new-found infamy.


A spring drizzle further darkened the pall hanging over
Blacksburg, home to Virginia Tech, as the first funeral for one
of the 32 victims mown down by South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui
was held.


In the aftermath of the horrific shooting, as US media across the
country played and replayed Cho's disturbing last messages to the
world, the town's 40,000 residents struggled to regain some sense
of normalcy.


"We grieve for our families and friends. Our university is going
to try to find a way to move forward," said university spokesman
Larry Hincker. "We cannot let this horror identify Virginia
Tech."


Families quietly claimed bodies at the state medical examiner's
office in nearby Roanoke, and at least one of the wounded was
discharged from hospital Thursday, according to medical
authorities.


The tight-knit university Indonesian community gathered early in
the morning at McCoy Funeral Home to honor Partahi "Mora"
Lumbantoruan, an engineering doctoral student from Sumatra who
was gunned down Monday and whose body was one of the first
released.


Asti Mclean, an Indonesian native whose husband teaches at the
university, said she last saw the student at the Indonesia table
of the school's international street fair on Sunday.


"One minute he was joking," she started to say, before her voice
trailed off.


A "Community Grief Gathering" was to take place in a local church
Thursday evening for residents to share their feelings.


The town has prepared for Virginia's state-wide memorial day on
Friday by hanging ribbons of the university's colors, maroon and
orange, on lampposts on the main street.


At an art supplies shop facing the post office where Cho mailed
his violent "manifesto" to NBC television on Monday, Mary Irwin
said Blacksburg was still digesting not only the shootings, but
the media's invasion of the town surrounded by rolling hills,
horse farms and forests.


"It's kind of surreal," said Irwin, who was shocked to learn that
Cho had been in the post office just meters away on Monday just
as she opened up shop.


"That was really unnerving," said the woman, whose husband
teaches political science at Virginia Tech.


Her colleague, Sarah Yoder, was rattled by images of Cho
brandishing handguns and knives replayed in the news over the
previous 18 hours.


"The images are so extreme. The media should show some
restraint," Yoder said.


"I definitely would not want my children to see it," added Irwin.


Reticent like many natives of the Appalachian mountains' corridor
in the eastern United States, many Blacksburg residents,
especially older ones, remained unwilling to talk publicly about
what happened.


But some were worried about the nation's changed view of the
city.


"I just don't want people to think Blacksburg is a bad place to
be," said Thailand-born Thanadoul Khunngam, who came here from
Los Angeles to open the Cafe de Bangkok.


Police said earlier they were wrapping up their on-site
investigation at the two shooting sites on the university campus,
and worked hard to shoo reporters away from families of the
victims.


Lumbantoruan's funeral was just the beginning of more than 30
similar rites.


The 34-year-old ethnic Batak had no family in the United States,
said Mclean, but was close to the 20-odd Indonesians in the
university community.


"It is a very close community," she told AFP. "You don't have
family, (so) you reply upon each other."


"We call him Mora, he was very very fine, very neat," she said,
noting his father was a retired Indonesian army officer.


After the news of the shooting broke on Monday, she and others
called around the community to check on all of their compatriots,
she said, and only Lumbantoruan could not be found.


His telephone was constantly busy: "I got worried and sick," said
Mclean.

