

Celtic are on course to clinch their second consecutive Scottish
Premier League title if they win at Kilmarnock on Sunday and
manager Gordon Strachan says his players can be proud of their
efforts.


The Parkhead club soared ahead of the chasing pack back in the
autumn, leading to much of the league championship being little
more than an extended coronation for the SPL holders.


However, since Celtic lost to AC Milan in the last 16 of the
Champions League last month their performances have dipped.


Strachan, though, believes his men deserve credit for the way
they have built up such a lead over second placed Rangers and
says results matter more than performances.


The Celtic boss said: "The good work we've done since July, when
we first started out, has got ourselves into the position of
being 13 points clear with five games to go.


"Through ups and downs, good football and indifferent football
we've got ourselves into this position and it's not because of
anyone else.


"We have an opportunity to win a title on Sunday and we will give
it our best shot, as we've done all season.


"As a group we have a lot to be proud of this season. We have a
lot to improve on, but we should be proud of a lot of things we
have done.


"We try to strive, first of all to win the game and if we can get
the performance as well that's great.


"But if we can only get one, then we choose the winning
performance because that's the most important thing at the end of
the day."


Kilmarnock will be determined to spoil the party for Celtic on
Sunday.


Midfielder James Fowler believes the fact some players are
playing for their futures will ensure they give their all to get
a result at Rugby Park.


He said: "Celtic have stumbled quite a bit in recent weeks and we
have a few guys who are playing for new contracts so they will be
doing everything they can to impress.


"Almost every season there seems to be a chance of a title party
at Rugby Park and that's when our pride comes into it."


Celtic could actually win the SPL the previous day if Rangers
lose at home to fourth-placed Hearts.


However the Ibrox side will be determined not to gift their Old
Firm rivals the championship.


A win against Hearts would also keep them at least eight points
ahead of Aberdeen in the race for the runners-up spot and
Champions League qualification.


The third placed Dons, meanwhile, know only a win at home to
Hibernian will keep their hopes of second place alive.


At the same time Aberdeen are only three points ahead of Hearts
in the race for the final UEFA Cup spot for next season.


Hibs, who face Dunfermline in a Scottish Cup replay on Tuesday
evening, have announced former Manchester United player Michael
Stewart will be allowed to leave the club at the end of the
season.


However, manager John Collins says the decision has nothing to do
with the player revolt last week - when it was reported 17
players had held a meeting with chairman Rod Petrie to complain
about his training methods.


Collins said: "Michael is not being singled out and has not been
disciplined."


Bottom of the table Dunfermline have an opportunity to close to
within a point of St Mirren, who are away to Falkirk on Monday
evening, if they win at home to Dundee United.


And in the final SPL game on Saturday Inverness Caledonian
Thistle play host to Motherwell.


Fixtures (1400 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Rangers v Hearts, Abderdeen v Hibernian (1130), Dunfermline v
Dundee United, Inverness Caledonian Thistle v Motherwell


Sunday


Kilmarnock v Celtic (1300)


Monday


Falkirk v St Mirren (1845)

