

Microsoft is offering a low-cost, scaled-down version of its
student software in developing countries to help billions of poor
people access computer technology, the company said Thursday.


A Student Innovation Suite including Windows XP, Office, and
Learning Essentials 2.0 will be sold to "qualifying governments"
beginning later this year for three dollars a unit.


"All human beings deserve a chance to achieve their full
potential," Microsoft chairman Bill Gates said while announcing
the program in Beijing.


"Bringing the benefits of technology to the next five billion
people will require new products that meet the needs of
underserved communities; creative, new business approaches that
make technology more relevant, accessible and affordable; and
close collaboration between local governments, educational
institutions and community organizations."


The discounted software offer is an expansion of Microsoft's
Unlimited Potential program aimed at accelerating the adoption of
computer technology in developing countries.


"Given the immense challenge of bridging the digital divide, the
industry will have to take a comprehensive approach to providing
computing to the 'next billion' people," said Endpoint
Technologies analyst Roger Kay.


"Strategies with the greatest potential will involve
collaboration among many players, including governments, NGOs,
commercial carriers, financing entities, local providers,
services organizations, and hardware and software vendors."


Analysts also saw Microsoft's philanthropy as helping the
Redmond, Washington- based company entrench its position as the
world's top software company by cultivating the devotion of
billions of new computer users.


Microsoft also announced an alliance with the Asian Development
Bank to bolster the use of Internet and computer technology to
increase competitiveness and sustainable economic development of
the Asia-Pacific region.


"Information communication technology holds significant promise
for poverty reduction, ADB's overarching goal," said development
bank vice president Larry Greenwood.

