

Australia all-rounder Shane Watson will return against New
Zealand in Friday's Super Eights match at the Grenada National
Stadium after missing the world champions' last three matches
with a left calf injury, captain Ricky Ponting has announced.


He takes the place of batsman Brad Hodge in what Ponting
indicated Thursday was Australia's first choice team.


Both Australia and New Zealand are already through to the semi-
finals but Friday's match was seen as a make-or-break encounter
for Watson, whose career has been blighted by injuries, in terms
of his future participation at this World Cup.


"He's straight back into the side, he's done everything that's
been asked of him in the last couple of weeks really with all his
rehab work," Ponting said of 25 -year-old Queensland pace bowler
and middle-order batsman Watson.


"Certainly his training the last four or five days, he's had
quite a few good bowling spells under his belt. The most
impressive one was yesterday (Wednesday) when he bowled five
overs at 100 percent."


Ponting said the fact Watson was fully fit meant Australia
avoided a selection dilemma.


"If he hadn't impressed as much as he did yesterday, it would
have been a little bit tougher," said the captain.


"He's good, he feels good about it himself as well and obviously
he's very excited to be back. He's worked his backside off over
the last couple of weeks, every day."


Asked if Watson's return meant Australia were now fielding the XI
they wanted to win an unprecedented third straight World Cup
title, Ponting replied: "It would be pretty close to it.


"I've made it pretty clear right the way through I didn't want to
be making too many changes to the team and, touch wood, we've
only had the one little injury, which was Watson


"The other guys have looked after themselves very well and now
it's important we do that in the next week and a half and, more
importantly, play some great cricket.


"What you've seen so far from this team is a team that is very
capable of winning a World Cup if they all perform somewhere near
their best," Ponting said of an Australia side defending a
26-game unbeaten run in World Cup competition stretching back to
1999.


Watson, whose presence gives Australia a genuine fifth option in
their attack, sustained a calf strain while bowling against
Bangladesh in Antigua on March 31.


In this tournament he has scored 77 runs in four unbeaten innings
and taken one wicket for 99 runs.


Watson has played just three Tests, injuring his shoulder in his
third Test appearance in Brisbane in November 2005 against West
Indies.


He made his one-day international debut in 2002 but his 62-game
career in the shorter format has also been interrupted by
injuries.


Chosen for the 2003 World Cup squad, he withdrew because of a
back problem and had to pull out of Australia's one-day squad
that toured Bangladesh 12 months ago because of a right calf
strain sustained while making 201 in the domestic Pura Cup final.


He then missed the whole of Australia's recent 5-0 Ashes
hammering of England with a hamstring strain.


Friday's match is both teams last in the Super Eights. Australia
are set to play South Africa in Wednesday's second semi-final in
St Lucia, with New Zealand on course to face Sri Lanka 24 hours
earlier in Jamaica.


The World Cup final takes place in Barbabos a week on Saturday.

