

Alan Pardew has told his Charlton team to forget about recent
disappointments as they prepare for the defining 90 minutes of
their season against fellow strugglers Sheffield United this
weekend.


Having suffered a last-minute defeat at Everton in their last
game, the Addicks are looking to respond by climbing out of the
relegation places at the expense of Saturday's visitors to The
Valley.


Victory for Pardew's men will see them jump above United, who
currently occupy the last survival spot in the top flight, one
place and two points ahead of Charlton.


Pardew praised his team's effort in the defeat at Everton whilst
spelling out the significance that the game against Neil
Warnock's team had now taken on.


"Sheffield United is a massive game for us; it's a must-win game
for us. There is no other way to describe it," warned Pardew.


"The way the results have gone for us with Sheffield United
winning (against West Ham last weekend) and Wigan getting a point
means that our next match could decide our fate.


"We can look back with pride and take that into the game. I
certainly feel there is a lot of mileage in what's going on at
the bottom of the league.


"My overriding feeling is that this team still has a lot to say
in what's going to go on between now and the end of the season."


The ex-West Ham manager can take encouragement from his team's
run of one defeat in seven games and their recent results at
home, where they have collected 13 points from a possible 15.


United will arrive at the Valley reinvigorated, however, after
victory over West Ham and a spirited showing in defeat away at
Manchester United arrested an alarming slide in form.


The Blades' captain Chris Morgan demanded his team-mates build on
the platform and maintain focus for the vital clash.


"I have no idea how many points we need, the only thing I'm
thinking about is Charlton on Saturday and the fact we need to
get a result," said the centre- back.


"We have said all along you can't start thinking about what is
going to happen and where we are going to pick points up.


"We are just looking at Charlton in the same way we just focused
on West Ham when we got the result we wanted.


"We worked hard last season to get promoted to this division, and
we are not just going to give it up for nothing," said the former
Barnsley man.


The defender will be aware that the Yorkshireman have lost their
last eight away games, a run that extends back to before
Christmas.


Morgan also backed striker Luton Shelton to be a secret weapon in
the run-in after the Jamaican's eye-catching performance at Old
Trafford, where he was unfortunate not to earn a penalty.


"I thought Luton did really well up there on his own. He gave
them something to think about and he looked exciting and sharp."


Charlton's Jimmy-Floyd Hasselbaink completed 75 minutes of a
reserve game on Monday, and is in contention to play following a
hamstring injury. Hermann Hriedarsson is doubtful with a knee
injury.


Marcus Bent has a pulled hamstring and is expected to miss out
against his former club.


United welcome back Chris Armstrong, Christian Nade and Keith
Gillespie whilst Jonathan Stead is expected to recover from the
knock that kept him out of the Manchester United game.


Top scorer Rob Hulse is out for the season after breaking his leg
against Chelsea in March.

