

A mystery Hong Kong feng shui master on Friday claimed the estate
of Asia's richest woman Nina Wang, setting the stage for a
spectacular courtroom battle over her four billion dollar
fortune.


The announcement came as relatives filed their own legal papers
over the wealth of the late eccentric, whose property empire and
miser's lifestyle made her a regular feature on both the business
and the gossip pages.


Attorneys said a 2006 will written by Wang, who died this month
from cancer aged 69, had left the entire legacy to feng shui
master Chan Chun Chuen -- a figure other feng shui masters in
this Chinese city said they'd never heard of.


"Mr Chan is very honoured by the trust and affection which Nina
Wang has shown in passing her entire estate to him," said the
legal notice published in several Hong Kong newspapers.


"In dealing with it, Mr Chan will at all times have regard to the
values by which Nina Wang managed her business interests and
personal affairs during her life."


Lawyer Jonathan Midgely, who also served as Wang's counsel during
her bitter eight-year battle against her father-in-law for
control of her late husband's estate, said a news conference
would be held later in the day.


In death as in life, Wang has generated controversy and filled
the daily papers in Hong Kong, a wealth-obsessed financial hub
where rumours abound over what will happen to the fortune the
mini-skirt wearing mogul left behind.


Some have even suggested there might be considerably more than
the 4.2 billion US dollars Forbes estimated she was worth last
year -- vast wealth she made by transforming her husband's
company Chinachem into a real estate empire.


She seized control of Chinachem after the disappearance of her
husband Teddy, who was kidnapped in 1990 and never heard from
again. She long insisted he was still alive even after the courts
declared him legally dead in 1999.


But her father-in-law Wang Din-shin, now 96, sued to get control
of Teddy's assets in a bitter court battle that saw the two sides
trade accusations of adultery, sloth and naked greed. She won in
2005.


Now two younger sisters and a brother of Nina have filed their
own papers over the estate in the name of a charity trust
connected to Chinachem.


They say the trust was named as the executor of a will that Wang
purportedly wrote in 2002, possibly paving the way for a second
court fight over the fortune.


In a further twist, the Oriental Daily News said the family held
a third and final will written just before the tycoon's death on
April 4. It did not say when the purported document was dated.


Little is known about Chan and local newspapers interviewed well-
known feng shui masters -- traditionally consulted in China to
ensure health, wealth and happiness -- who said they had never
heard of him.


The Apple Daily newspaper, citing unnamed sources, said Chan had
gained Wang's trust as he had also believed that her late husband
Teddy was still alive, and that they repeatedly prayed together
at a temple for his return.

