

Alex Rodriguez hit a game-winning, three-run homer off closer
JoeBorowski in the ninth inning Thursday as the New York Yankees
rallied for an 8-6 victory over the Cleveland Indians.


The Yankees had already scored three runs in the ninth - with two
out - to narrow the gap to 5-6 when Rodriguez drilled a 1-0 pitch
from Borowski to center field for his major league-leading 10th
home run of the season.


"It's exciting, especially at the stadium," Rodriguez said. "The
fans were (waiting) for a big win. They were into it and it's
exciting."


It was the second game-winning blast for the two-time American
League MVP, including a grand slam against Baltimore closer Chris
Ray in a 10-7 triumph here on April 7.


"He's swinging the bat really well," Yankees manager Joe Torre
said. "This was great."


"He's been a huge asset for us," New York general manager Brian
Cashman added. "He continues to push us into the win column."


Last year, Rodriguez did not hit his 10th home run until May 22
in Boston.  On Thursday, he became the first player in American
League history to hit 10 home runs in the first 14 games of the
season.


"I don't ... I've never had a player with this ability," Torre
said. "He's certainly capable of hitting it out of any ballpark.
I've had some pretty good players that have but Alex is certainly
ability-wise ... I don't think anybody matches him."


With his latest heroics, Rodriguez made up for a throwing error
that allowed the Indians to grab a 6-2 lead in the top of the
ninth. He also atoned for going hitless in his first four at-
bats, which included a pair of strikeouts.


Even if Rodriguez' game winning blast had stayed in the park, the
Yankees would have won because Cleveland center fielder Grady
Sizemore was playing shallow for a possible play at the plate.


"I just wanted to hit the ball hard," Rodriguez said. "I knew
that Sizemore was playing me pretty shallow. So the minute I hit
it I knew the game was over."


The blast raised Rodriguez' major league-leading RBI total to 26.


"He seems comfortable, he seems balanced," Yankees captain Derek
Jeter said. "He was swinging the bat well the last week of spring
training and it has carried over to the regular season."

