

Oil prices were mixed in Asian trade Friday in a market driven by
healthy fundamentals and a focus on US refineries' return to
production, traders said.


At 11:36 am (0336 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 18 cents to 62.01
dollars per barrel from 61.83 dollars a barrel in late US trades,
where it declined a hefty 1.30 dollars.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery was down 37 cents to
65.57 dollars per barrel.


Traders said the price falls were mainly tied to reports that US
refiners were ratcheting up their output.


"In the near term, supply is sufficient to meet crude demand in
the year's second quarter," said CFC Seymour senior investment
strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk in Hong Kong.


"Fundamentals are driving the market and the concerns over China
are misplaced," he added.


China announced Thursday that its economy grew by 11.1 percent in
the first quarter compared with the first three months of 2006.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao on Thursday called for steps to
prevent fast growth from leading to an overheated economy.


"Yesterday, investors were concerned over a slowdown in demand
for commodities, including oil in China, and sold. But I think
what the authorities have suggested that there will not be any
sharp policy response... Demand for oil will continue to be very
strong," Kowalczyk said.


He said the price divide between Brent and the New York contract
will narrow as US refineries ramp up production.


Dealers are watching gasoline stocks closely before the US summer
driving season kicks off next month, when many Americans take to
the highways for their holidays.


The refining news offset data published Wednesday by the US
Department of Energy (DoE) that showed US gasoline reserves fell
2.7 million barrels last week, the 10th consecutive drop, and a
heavier fall than forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million.


On the geopolitical front, Iran's controversial nuclear programme
continues to support prices, dealers said.


The UN atomic watchdog said late Wednesday that Iran, the world's
fourth-biggest crude producer, had started feeding uranium gas
for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has installed more
than 1,300 centrifuges.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on Iran for
failing to halt uranium enrichment.


"The market has recently...focussed on other things. But at the
back of the investors' mind, geopolitical risk continues to weigh
heavily," Kowalczyk said.


Iran's state television reported Thursday that Iran's lead
nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani has agreed with EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana Thursday to resume talks, while insisting on
Iran's "absolute rights" regarding its nuclear programme.

