

PGA Tour rookie Kyle Reifers fired a course-record 8-under-par 64
to charge to the lead after Thursday's first round of the 6.1
million-dollar Zurich Classic of New Orleans.


Reifers, a 23-year-old unknown who played most of last season on
the Nationwide Tour, enjoyed the low round of his career,
recording a bogey-free round that featured eight birdies.


Reifers was two shots in front of former British Open champion
Mark Calcavecchia, who started on the back nine and posted a 66.


It was a further shot back to a group of four players that
included 2005 winner Tim Petrovic. Tom Johnson, Lucas Glover,
Jason Schultz also shot 67.


Defending champion Chris Couch was tied for 77th after an even
72. He started slowly with a double-bogey and a bogey among his
first four holes.


After being moved last year due to the devastation caused by
Hurricane Katrina, the event is back at the TPC Louisiana, a
course that plays 7,341 yards.


Nearly 2,000 trees were lost due to the storm and a number of
holes were completely under water.


It took more than a year to get the course back into shape,
during which time the event was to English Turn Golf and Country
Club, its previous home, last season.


Three of Reifers' birdies came at the course's four par-five
holes, where Reifer said he made a conscious effort not to be
overly aggressive.


"I played them a little more conservatively, but played my angles
a lot better and gave myself a lot of good looks," he said. "I
can kind of feel my game coming around."


Reifers also birdied the par-three ninth hole, where he knocked a
six-iron three feet from the pin.


He didn't know until after the round that he had broken the
course record of 65, which was shot by both Chris DiMarco and
India's Arjun Atwal in 2005.


"It doesn't really mean much to me right now," he admitted. "At
the end of the week, hopefully it will mean a lot."


If Reifers can continue, he has a chance to become the fifth
player to claim his first tour title at this event in the past
six years.


Calcavecchia, meanwhile, is bidding for his second title of the
season. He won the Pods Championship in March for his 13th PGA
Tour title, and his first since the Canadian Open in 2005.

