

Arsene Wenger has insisted that he remains committed to Arsenal,
despite voicing his regret at the departure of David Dein, the
ousted former vice-chairman who brought him to north London.


Dein ended his 24-year association with the club on Wednesday in
a development widely linked to boardroom divisions over how to
respond to takeover overtures from American tycoon Stan Kroenke.


The departure of Dein left Wenger's future in doubt, particularly
as the Frenchman is only under contract with the club until the
end of next season.


But after an emergency board meeting on Thursday, Wenger
indicated that he continued to see his long-term future at the
Emirates Stadium, despite his disappointment at seeing his close
friend Dein leave.


"It is a sad day for Arsenal Football Club," Wenger told the
club's website. "It is a huge disappointment because we worked
very closely together. David has contributed highly to the
success of the Club in the last 10 years and even before that as
well. Red and white are the colours of his heart."


Crucially however, Wenger stressed that his own position would
not change as a result of the latest developments.


"My position is that I am linked with the club very strongly," he
said. "The relationship with the rest (of the Board) has always
been very good and we try always to have a good understanding."


Wenger's comments came after Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood
assured the manager and the supporters that the club wants him to
stay in charge beyond 2008.


"I think it's well known that Arsene and David have got on very
well over the past 10 years and I am certain that Arsene will
miss him," Hill-Wood said.


"However I believe the relationship that Arsene has with the rest
of the board is good.


"He is on contract with us until 2008 and we very much hope that
he will extend his contract beyond that, but we haven't got into
talking details on that yet."


Dein left over what were termed as "irreconcilable differences"
involving the way the club was run.


Those differences are understood to be over the direction and
ownership of the club, with Dein known to be very much in favour
of the involvement of Kroenke.


Dein's departure has sparked speculation that he was ready to
sell his 14 percent stake in the club to Kroenke, who has already
acquired 11 percent of the tightly-controlled Arsenal shares.


If that was to happen, Kroenke, the owner of Major League
Soccer's Colorado Rapids, basketball team Denver Nuggets and ice
hockey side Colorado Avalanche, would become the biggest
shareholder in the Gunners, currently valued at 420 million
pounds (846 million dollars).


But he would remain short of the 30 percent required to trigger
an automatic takeover bid under UK corporate law and the
remaining board members, who together account for just over 45
percent of the shares, have agreed to hang on to their stakes for
at least the next year.


Analysts suggested that the stance of the board, led by chairman
Peter Hill- Wood, made a takeover unlikely in the short term. But
there is certainly scope for a destabilising power struggle.

