

Chinese investors were ready Friday for what most considered to
be inevitable government moves to rein in the economy, after
first-quarter growth figures showed previous efforts had been far
too little.


But many were also left asking if any further measures Beijing
could realistically adopt would matter that much.


The fact that China reported growth of 11.1 percent in the first
quarter -- despite a slew of policies to slow down activity --
was seen by many as a sign that the world's fourth-largest
economy is becoming harder to manage.


"There have been three interest hikes over the past year and all
of them proved to have little impact on the property market,"
said Joe Zhou, a Shanghai-based analyst with real estate
consulting firm Jones Lang LaSalle.


"Developers won't stop construction just because of a small
interest rate hike."


Property professionals were not the only ones looking at future
government economic moves with an attitude bordering on apathy.


"It's not like we're working overtime or constantly monitor the
central bank website," said Zhang Qi, a Shanghai-based trader
with Haitong Securities.


"Even if there's a rate hike, it will be small, and like the
others before it, it won't have a big impact on the market," he
said.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers A and
B-shares closed Friday morning up nearly three percent, following
a 4.5 percent tumble one day earlier.


Thursday's plunge was merely experienced institutionals cashing
in on recent gains, to the chagrin of retail investors that had
recently entered the market, said Shen Jun, a trader with
Shangzhenglian Investment Consulting in Shanghai.


The institutional investors spotted jitters ahead of the release
of the first- quarter data and decided it was a good time to
sell, but by Friday it was back to business as usual, he said.


"Even if there is more tightening from the central bank, for
example, during the Labour Day holiday in early May, it won't
have any significant impact on the market as it's already
factored in," he said.


In stark contrast to the wheeler-dealers in the plush offices of
China's financial districts, the state-run media maintained the
government could actually do something serious about the economy.


"At this point, it is not hard to say what the government should
do," the state- controlled China Daily said in an editorial.
"Plenty of observers say that China should slow down the speed of
its growth in every category."


But the recent record of Chinese economic policy making might
suggest this is easier said than done.


The economy's red-hot performance in the first three months has
been fueled by the two factors the government has vowed to place
under tighter control -- net exports and investment.


China's trade surplus roughly doubled in the first three months
of the year to 46.4 billion dollars, despite successive moves to
reduce export tax incentives while making imports easier and more
attractive.


In the same period, liquidity-driven investments in fixed assets
grew 23.7 percent, in defiance of official steps to rein in the
amount of money floating around in the system.


"Another big number proves that China's super-tanker economy is
still nowhere near slowing," Stephen Green, a Shanghai-based
economist with Standard Chartered, said in a research note.


"To mix our maritime and aerial metaphors, this economy is not
landing -- it has refuelled mid-flight and is flying higher
again."

