

Dolphin of Nigeria will be hoping for better luck Sunday on their
second African Confederation Cup venture to Morocco.


The club from the south eastern city of Port Harcourt take a 1-0
lead to Hassania Agadir as the three-round qualifying programme
draws to a close this weekend.


But Dolphin players and coaches barely need reminding that after
taking a similar advantage to FAR Rabat in the 2005 African
Confederation Cup final,  the west Africans suffered a 3-0 second
leg drubbing.


Kola Anubi scored midway through the first half to separate the
clubs two weeks ago in a scrappy match that left rival coaches
Austin Eguavoen and  Miguel Gamondi dissatisfied.


Eguavoen craves international success having failed to take
Nigeria to the 2006 World Cup and having to settle for bronze
medals at the African Nations Cup last year.


He remains with the Super Eagles as an assistant to German Berti
Vogts and answered a plea to assist coach Ifeanyi Onyedika when
Dolphin made a poor  start to the domestic season.


Gamondi and 1996 African Nations Cup-winning captain Neil Tovey
guided Mamelodi Sundowns to the South Africa title last year only
to be axed when   the Pretoria club made a faltering start to
their defence.


The Argentine has made little impact at Agadir, who remain firmly
entrenched in mid-table, and Confederation Cup failure could
signal the end for the South American.


Nigeria are guaranteed at least one club in the May playoffs
between the Confederation Cup third round winners and the African
Champions League third round losers.


Chukwuma Akabueze converted a last minute penalty Wednesday to
give Kwara United a 3-2 win over Cameroonian visitors Union
Douala in a stormy clash  after a drawn first leg.


And more disappointment is in store for football followers in the
Atlantic port of Douala as another local team, Astres, face the
daunting task of wiping out a 3-0 deficit against Cup surprise
packets Benfica Luanda of Angola.


An Mbungu Mputu hat-trick earned Benfica an advantage they are
unlikely to surrender considering they triumphed 5-1 in
Equatorial Guinea and drew 0-0 in the Democratic Republic of
Congo in previous rounds.


Tunisian clubs CS Sfaxien and Gaouafel Gafsa are also well placed
to make the playoffs that determine which eight clubs go forward
to the group phase in search of a 400,000-dollar first prize.


Sfaxien trail Issia Wazi of Ivory Coast 1-0 after conceding a
goal on the stroke of half-time in Abidjan to leading
Confederation Cup scorer Wilfried Bony, who raised his tally to
six from three matches.


But Swiss coach Michel Decastel believes unlucky 2006 African
Champions League runners-up Sfaxien will sweep Issia aside in the
south eastern town of Sfax.


"After losing the Champions League final against Al-Ahly of Egypt
to a stoppage time goal, Sfaxien lost key players like defender
Wissem al-Abdi    and midfielder and captain Anis Boujelbene to
Cairo clubs.


"I am now focusing on building a new team and with the Tunisian
title beyond our reach, the African Confederation Cup is the
primary objective. We are capable of going all the way," vowed
Decastel.


African debutants Gafsa have adapted impressively to continental
fare and are favoured to eliminate Rwandan outfit ATRACO after
coming from behind twice in Kigali to force a 2-2 draw.


Ismailia of Egypt needed a stoppage time goal from Omar Gamal to
edge Zambian army club Green Buffaloes 201 in Alexandria and a
team guided by  former Guinea coach Patrice Neveu could face a
torrid time in Lusaka.


Al-Merreikh of Sudan also boast a high-profile coach in German
Otto Pfister, who led Togo at the 2006 World Cup, and his mission
in Omdurman is to overcome a 1-0 loss inflicted by ASO Chlef in
Algeria.


Experienced international campaigners Etoile Filante of Burkina
Faso appear to have the edge over African rookies Mwana Africa of
Zimbabwe after building a 2-0 lead at home thanks to goals by
Issou Ouattara and Gervais Sanou.

