

Britain will not have a referendum on a future European Union
treaty to streamline decision making in the 27-nation bloc, so
long as it does not have the characteristics of a constitution,
Prime Minister Tony Blair said in an interview published Friday.


Speaking to the Financial Times, as well as six other European
newspapers, Blair also said that his likely successor in the post
-- finance minister Gordon Brown -- was in agreement with him.


Blair has backed a Dutch proposal for the EU to push for changes
to existing treaties rather than a whole new constitution, an
idea aimed at easing popular fears of a European superstate
trampling over national constitutions.


A constitutional treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making in
an enlarged EU has been in political limbo since it was rejected
in referendums in France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Asked if the treaty he favoured would require a referendum, Blair
replied: "No. If it's not a constitutional treaty, so that it
alters the basic relationship between Europe and the member
states, then there isn't the same case for a referendum."


He added that the British government is "going to get attacked
whatever we do, but Europe needs to do it to move forward."


Blair and his counterparts in the other EU member states are due
to meet on June 21-22, where he expects them to agree "the basic
outline agreement for a treaty," but it is unlikely it will be
ratified while he is still in office -- he has promised to step
down by September.


Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown is the heavy favourite to take
his place, and Blair said the pair were on the same page: "When
we come to the June council, we will come with the position of
the government."


Speaking of Brown -- a reputed euro-skeptic -- Blair said that he
thinks Brown is "pro-Europe and pro-reform and he wants change in
Europe -- quite rightly."


Blair is expected by many political observers to announce his
resignation next month, following elections for some local
councils across England, as well as regional assemblies in
Scotland and Wales, in all of which his Labour Party is expected
to do poorly.

