

Japan will have a chance to defend their World Baseball Classic
crown in 2009.


World Baseball Classic, Incorporated. announced Thursday that it
would again hold the 16-team global baseball tournament in March
2009, three years after Japan won the inaugural edition.


The WBCI also announced its intention to extend initial
invitations for the 2009 World Baseball Classic to eight of the
16 teams. The remaining eight teams will be invited in December
2007.


The teams that advanced to the second round in the 2006 World
Baseball Classic - Cuba, Dominican Republic, Japan, South Korea,
Mexico, Puerto Rico, United States and Venezuela - will receive
the eight initial tournament invitations.


"We are extremely pleased with the impressive results of the 2006
World Baseball Classic and excited about the momentum and
anticipation it has generated for the upcoming 2009 event," Major
League Baseball President Bob DuPuy said.


"As international baseball continues to develop and thrive, and
the supply of quality baseball nations grows, the task of
selecting the 16 deserving teams has become increasingly
difficult."


The remaining eight invitations will be determined following a
period of evaluation and consultation.


"Numerous countries, far more than we currently can invite, are
clamoring to get in," chief operating officer of the MLB Players
Association Gene Orza said. "Given the limitations on the size of
the field that we face at this date, we want to make sure that
the widespread interest in participation gets the attention it
deserves."


The WBCI also announced the distribution of more than eight
million dollars in proceeds from the inaugural tournament to the
participating countries and territories and the International
Baseball Federation.


Japan beat Cuba 10-6 in the 2006 final of the tournament, the
first such global competition to feature Major League Baseball
talent.


Ironically, Japan won with a squad featuring just two major
league players, while Communist Cuba made it to the final with
the latest generation of their amateur dynasty.


Many US major leaguers shunned the Classic in favor of pre-season
workouts with club teams in advance of the April opening of the
US season.


Some had suggested moving the event to November, after the major
league World Series, but major league baseball commissioner Bud
Selig had voiced doubts about a change.

