

Inter Milan will be gunning to get back to winning ways and for
AS Roma to slip up to finally seal the Serie A title on Sunday at
Siena.


Inter's bid to claim their second straight Scudetto was put on
hold midweek when a 3-1 loss to second-placed Roma at the San
Siro ended their season-long unbeaten run.


After back-to-back draws against Palermo and relegation-
threatened Reggina, the champions campaign seems to be
stuttering.


But with a 13-point advantage on Roma, and six games remaining,
Roberto Mancini's men can wrap up the title this weekend if they
beat Siena in Tuscany and Roma lose at Lombardy outfit Atalanta.


Mancini is confident they can do the job despite the absence of
Adriano, who is sitting out a two-match suspension for simulating
a foul by Roma goalie Doni which resulted in a penalty which
Inter converted Wednesday.


"What happened against Palermo and Roma we will take note of
against Siena," warned Mancini.


"Now we have to stay calm and try to finish it off as soon as
possible."


Inter Milan president Massimo Moratti admitted that he would be
happy with a draw and to take the title at home to Empoli the
following week.


"Just getting these points is enough for me," he told Inter
Milan's website.


"What happened may have been due to the crowd's expectation. In
any case, it's hard to be angry with the players over one match
because they have played thirty-one good matches."


But Argentine international Esteban Cambiasso believes that only
a win will do. "We must go to Siena with the tranquillity we have
always had, and try to win again immediately," the midfielder
said.


"We just have to think that we only need a few points to finish
it off. We must recover our strength and react."


Roma, meanwhile, are riding high after bouncing back from their
humiliating 7-1 Champions League exit to Manchester United just
over a week ago with a 4-0 win at Sampdoria followed by their
victory over Inter.


"We won't talk about that again," said Roma captain Francesco
Totti of the Old Trafford debacle.


"That was an episode which unfortunately will remain part of our
history. But we've bounced back, and quickly."


Lazio, sitting third 11 points behind Roma, had to settle for a
goalless draw at home to Chievo Wednesday, and are desperately
looking to put further distance between themselves and AC Milan
when they host Fiorentina.


AC Milan, are a further four points back, and coming off wins
from their last three games and securing a spot in the Champions
League semi-finals.


They host 13th-placed Cagliari Saturday determined to avoid the
lapses in concentration which allowed tailenders Ascoli steal two
goals during AC Milan's 5-2 victory midweek.


Palermo and Empoli, in fifth and sixth, are four points behind AC
Milan and both looking to continue their push for elite European
football next season.


Empoli host Torino, while Palermo play at third-from-bottom
Parma.


As the scramble against relegation enters the home straight,
Parma are five points ahead of Messina who travel to Sampdoria.


Ascoli with just three wins this season look destined for the
drop.


They need to beat Catania, who are just four points above the
drop zone, on Sunday in a match being played at the neutral venue
of Modena.


Saturday


Sampdoria v Messina


AC Milan v Cagliari


Sunday


Atalanta v Roma


Catania v Ascoli at Modena


Chievo v Livorno


Empoli v Torino


Lazio v Fiorentina


Reggina v Udinese


Siena v Inter Milan


Palermo v Parma

