

Bank of America posted better-than-expected quarterly profits
Thursday totaling 5.26 billion dollars, gaining a fresh edge over
arch-rival Citigroup which has seen its profits ebb in past
months.


Bank of America has expanded aggressively in recent years,
swallowing FleetBoston Financial and the MBNA credit card firm,
and its fat profits eclipsed Citigroup's latest quarterly
earnings for the second straight time.


At stake is Citigroup's lucrative perch as America's biggest
financial powerhouse, a position coveted by Bank of America. The
raging battle is being tracked closely by investors and industry
analysts.


Despite its slowing profits, however, Citigroup's market
capitalization at 261 billion dollars still outranks its rival's
market worth of 227 billion dollars for the time being.


"Bank of America is off to a solid start in 2007 despite a
challenging operating environment," said the bank's chairman and
chief executive Kenneth Lewis who has pushed to enlarge the firm.


Excluding one-time costs, Bank of America reported first quarter
earnings per share of 1.17 dollars, besting the assumptions of
most Wall Street forecasters who had predicted earnings of 1.15
dollars per share.


The ascendent banking group, which is also expanding its global
empire, unveiled quarterly revenues of 18.42 billion dollars, a
touch below market expectations.


The North Carolina-based bank failed to overshadow Citigroup's
dominance on the revenue front, as its New York-based rival
booked record quarterly turnover Monday of 25 billion dollars.


Citigroup, which has been plagued by spiralling costs, is also
raising its game as it seeks to challenge Bank of America's
larger retail presence.


It is boosting its US branch network and currently runs 3,488
banking centers, but it still trails Bank of America which
operates a giant network of 5,737 branches tapping tens of
millions of consumers.


Analysts at Morningstar, an independent research firm, said in a
recent note that Bank of America's retail operations account for
about half of its profits.


"The bank is adopting scorched-earth tactics by rolling out
products like zero- fee mortgages with no private mortgage
insurance and free stock trades for checking customers who meet
certain requirements," the Morningstar analysts said in a note
issued before Bank of America released its earnings.


The bank's five percent profit gain for the period was mainly
generated by improved investment banking, mortgage banking and
trading and fee gains, markets that Citigroup has traditionally
reaped healthy profits from.


Some analysts expressed caution, however, amid a slowing economy.


"With its consumer concentration, Bank of America felt the
effects of the flat yield curve and higher credit costs," said
Patrick O'Hare, an analyst at Briefing.com.


"While the bank's overall growth was nothing to write home about,
there wasn't anything truly alarming about the report," he said.


Other analysts say the US housing slump could put a brake on
banks' profits going forward.


Bank of America also reported swelling growth in customer-
controlled brokerage assets following its move late last year to
offer online share trades for free to qualified customers.


It said such assets had soared 35 percent in the period to March
31, striking a hefty 28 billion dollars.


So-called "day traders" represent a potentially rich client base
which the banking heavyweight hopes to tap for fee-yielding
services.


Bank of America announced its latest earnings days after
unveiling plans to set up a new credit card joint venture in
fast-growing China with China Construction Bank, the nation's
third largest lender.


The US bank, headed by Lewis since 2001, holds a nine percent
stake in the Chinese firm.


Bank of America's shares closed down 91 cents at 50.91 dollars.

