

Wes Brown believes the strength of Manchester United's attacking
options can mask the current defensive crisis and keep Sir Alex
Ferguson's side on course to claim the Premiership title.


England international Brown has played a central role in a
patched-up back-four missing three of Ferguson's first choice
defenders.


Gary Neville, Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic have all been
missing, together with Mikael Silvestre, forcing United manager
Ferguson to ring the changes at a crucial stage of the season.


The midweek win over Sheffield United ensured the Old Trafford
club maintained a three-point advantage of Chelsea with five
games remaining.


But with Jose Mourinho's side matching United win for win, Brown
accepts that any slip will hand the advantage back to the London
club, particularly as Ferguson's side must travel to face Chelsea
at Stamford Bridge on May 9th.


But the defender believes the form of United's forward players --
including Wayne Rooney whose midweek goal took his season haul to
a personal best of 21 -- is good enough to overcome the current
injury concerns.


"The lads are helping each other and playing out of positions but
doing excellently," Brown said.


"Tuesday night's defence was not one we have been used to this
season, but everyone did well and we are happy that we kept a
clean sheet in those circumstances.


"There is confidence here because the attacking players we have
are playing unbelievably well at the moment.


"It's the same in midfield, so we know we that if we keep it safe
at the back, we will win games.


"We have five games to go and we are looking to win every one of
them because if we do, we know we have won the league.


"Middlesbrough will be a tough game because they will get stuck
into us, but we are at home and if we play as well as we can do,
we can win the game."


Ferdinand could return to the squad to face Middlesbrough but
with the Champions League semi-final against AC Milan looming
next week, Ferguson will not risk the centre-back if there is any
lingering doubt over his fitness.


For Middlesbrough, the daunting trip to Old Trafford follows
quickly from the midweek defeat at Liverpool that ensured Gareth
Southgate's side remain on the fringes of the relegation battle.


With just one win in their last eight league and cup games, Boro
desperately need a lift and England winger Stewart Downing
admitted they were hoping to take advantage of the growing
pressure on United to claim all three points.


"I do not know whether it is a good thing or a bad thing to have
Manchester United next - obviously they will be under pressure to
get all three points, so maybe we can hit them on the break,"
Downing said.


"We have to pick ourselves up now because we have got to go to
Old Trafford and look to be more positive.


"We have got some good results there in the past, but talk is
cheap and we need to go there and show what we are capable of."

