

Tributes to the victims of the Virginia Tech massacre, from
intimate online memorials to flowers piled at the doors of the
dead, have tapped a wellspring of raw emotion over 32 lives so
tragically and senselessly cut short.


Websites served as a message board for total strangers to express
their sympathies to the victims' families, while flowers, candles
and signs were placed on the front doors of some relatives'
homes.


The outpouring of support in the wake of Monday's deadliest US
school shooting, perpetrated by South Korean student Cho Seung-
Hui, who killed himself after his rampage, is reminiscent of the
September 11, 2001 attacks' memorials dotted with trinkets and
personal messages to family or friends lost forever.


A 26-year-old Virginia woman created a page titled "Hokies
United," using the school sports teams' name, on the social
networking website myspace.com as a memorial webpage for students
and others to reflect on the April 16 tragedy.


"Today we mourn, Tomorrow we live," says a black sign with the
school's VT logo posted on the webpage.


"I cried for those, whom I have never met, but my tears run just
the same," says a poem posted by a 21-year-old woman from
Indiana. "They were all angels on earth, the 16th they just got
their wings."


Others chose to use the Internet to express their condolences to
the victims' relatives.


"NO FAMILY SHOULD EVER HAVE TO LIVE THE NIGHTMARE YOU'RE GOING
THROUGH. SORRY FOR YOUR LOSS," Brad Wilson wrote, in capitals for
emphasis, in an online memorial book to the family of victim
Henry Lee (aka Henh Ly).


Indian-born engineering professor G.V. Loganathan, a Chennai
native who was gunned down as he taught an advanced hydrology
class, was remembered as humble and warm and eminently available
to his students.


"There were many nights when we'd stay up all night together so
he could give me guidance with reports or papers for conference,"
Craig Moore, a Virginia Tech doctoral student, told Roanoke.com.


The tragedy resonated across oceans, as some of Cho's victims
were foreign students whose parents paid huge tuitions fees for
their children to study in America.


Retired Indonesian army officer Tohom Lumbantoruan lost his son
Partahi "Mora," a doctoral candidate who was known in Blacksburg,
Virginia, where the school is located, for his shy demeanor and
work ethic, local media said.


"This is the destiny I have to face," Tohom Lumbantoruan told
Indonesian news website Detikcom.


"Since media ran reports of the shooting rampage, I have been
praying the Lord for my son's soul to keep. I kept waiting a
phone call from my son. But it was a phone call from the
Indonesian ambassador in the US that came to me, telling my son
was one of the victims."


In Blacksburg, the Indonesian Student Association volunteered to
clean up his apartment, where they learned Lumbantoruan's secret
passion: films about war, of which he had collected 30, The New
York Times reported.


Egyptian civil engineering student Waleed Shaalan, 32, left
behind a wife and small child to follow in his father's
professional footsteps, the Times reported.


Another person killed in Longanathan's class, Puertor Rican
student Juan Ramon Ortiz, 26, found joy in everything from
studying engineering to playing the drums, his wife, Liselle Vega
Cortes, told Roanoke.com.


"He loved life and he didn't deserve this," she told the website,
in tears.


On another social networking website, Facebook.com, Virginia Tech
students posted tributes, with pictures, captions and favorite
songs, to their fallen friends.


Marcy Crevonis, 19, recalled her last hours with fiance Mike
Pohle, and how when she heard a gunman was on the loose at the
school, she contacted Mike, 23.


He text-messaged her urging her to stay put and lock her door.
When she saw a television news bulletin about the shooting, she
phoned him, and got no answer.


So she sent him a text message: "call me asap," The Washington
Post said. It was too late; Cho had gunned him down in German
class.

