

Google reported Thursday that its profits surged 69 percent to
one billion dollars in the first three months of the year as
revenues at the world's leading Internet search company soared.


"The global growth of our core search and ads business and our
focus on building our partnerships drove our strong results in
the quarter," said Google chief executive Eric Schmidt.


"We continued to expand our worldwide footprint, adding important
new partners and growing our platform."


Google reported revenues of 3.66 billion dollars for the quarter
ended March 31, 2007, a 63 increase from the same quarter last
year.


Google said its net profit in the quarter tallied 1.0 billion
dollars, or 3.18 dollars per share, compared to 592 million
dollars, or 1.95 dollars per share, in the first quarter of 2007.


Google's stock price rose more than three percent to 486.19 in
trading that followed the released of the earnings report after
the market's closing bell.


"We are ecstatic about our financial results this past quarter,"
Schmidt said in a conference call with analysts and news
reporters.


"We've seen excellent growth in the United States and our growth
internationally is even better."


Advertising on Google's search engine drove revenues in the
quarter, with International markets accounting for 47 percent of
the income.


Use of Google.com was particularly strong in France, Britain,
Spain and Germany and grew significantly in Ireland, Brazil and
South Korea, the Mountain View, California-based company
reported.


Google warned that profit margins could be squeezed as it invests
heavily in data centers, servers, networking equipment and
beefing up its army of engineers working on new products.


Last week Google announced a deal to buy Internet advertising
broker DoubleClick for 3.1 billion dollars in cash.


Google co-founder Sergey Brin said the acquisition would enable
Google to more effectively target display and video
advertisements online.


"Google is very much benefiting from the growth rate of the
industry," Schmidt said. "All of the players are doing a great
job of making the on and offline experience much more rewarding."


"This is a scalable business and the scale looks very good to
us."

