

Northampton will go gunning for a place in the European Cup final
this weekend knowing that success could come at the price of
their Premiership status.


Currently bottom of the English top flight, Paul Grayson's side
take on Wasps in Sunday's second semi-final just six days before
they take on London Irish in a league match that will determine
if they have a chance of beating the drop.


But head coach Grayson has ruled out the possibility of resting
key players this weekend, insisting he will pick his best
available side.


"I might have intimated that if there was a close call then it
would go the other way," he said.


"But I don't think I could do that to our fans or the opposition.
We'll go flat out to win the game."


Northampton's chances of advancing to a Twickenham final against
Leicester or Llanelli, who meet 24 hours earlier, could hinge on
the fitness of star flyhalf Carlos Spencer.


The former All Black number 10 is a major doubt with an ankle
injury he suffered when Northampton were beaten 35-29 by Wasps in
a Premiership match last weekend.


Grayson gave Spencer no more than a 30 percent chance of
recovering in time and Northampton skipper Bruce Reihana
admitted: "It would be huge if Carlos is not available.


"He been around a long time and is an experienced guy. He has
great feet, outstanding skills and can change a game at any given
time. He showed a few sparks against Wasps and we all know what
he can do.


"We want him fit for the weekend because this will be the ideal
game for Carlos. The sun will be shining with a dry pitch and
ball. It's his stage because he can run the ball and show his
flair."


Llanelli go into their clash with former champions Leicester
looking to become the first Welsh team to win the European Cup.


No Welsh team has made the final since Cardiff lost the inaugural
final to Toulouse back in 1996.


But the Scarlets have shown impressive form to get this far,
reaching the last four with a 100 percent match-winning record
that has included away wins over Toulouse and Ulster, as well as
a quarter-final defeat of defending champions Munster.


History also beckons for wing Dafydd James, who has amassed more
tries -- 28 in 57 appearances -- than any other player in the
tournament.


Llanelli have fallen twice before at the semi-final stage and
Jones acknowledges that Premiership title chasers Leicester will
take some stopping.


"This is the crucial part of the competition where you get no
second chances," Jones said. "It is winner takes all, but if you
want to win the title you have to beat the best in getting there.


"We beat Munster in the quarter-finals, and now we have to go one
step further against a side who have a great European pedigree."


European Cup semi-finals (1400 GMT)


Saturday: Leicester (ENG) v Llanelli (WAL)


Sunday: Northampton (ENG) v Wasps (ENG)

