

World oil prices fell Thursday as US refiners ramped up their
output and the market put lingering Iran-related geopolitical
jitters temporarily aside.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, closed down a hefty 1.30 dollars to 61.83
dollars per barrel.


Across the Atlantic, London-quoted Brent North Sea crude for June
delivery settled down 10 cents at 65.94 dollars per barrel.


Traders said the price declines were mainly tied to reports that
US refiners were ratcheting up their output.


"A jump in refinery runs back to a more normal 90.4 percent and a
jump in gasoline production back over 8.7 million barrels a day
raised hopes that the refiners could catch up with the 9.4
million barrels a day of consumption," said Phil Flynn, an
analyst at Alaron Trading.


However, Flynn said it would remain to be see whether refiners
could keep up the pace and catch up with demand.


The refining news offset data published Wednesday by the US
Department of Energy (DoE) that showed US gasoline reserves fell
2.7 million barrels last week, the 10th consecutive drop and
heavier than forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million.


Dealers are watching gasoline stocks closely before the US summer
driving season kicks off next month, as many Americans take to
the highways for their holidays.


Concerns about Iran's nuclear program continued to occupy the
market, however, traders said.


The UN atomic watchdog said late Wednesday that Iran, the world's
fourth-biggest crude producer, had started feeding uranium gas
for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has installed over
1,300 centrifuges.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on the Islamic
state for failing to halt uranium enrichment.


Iran claims its nuclear program is for civil purposes.


Also on Wednesday, Iran refused to rule out using oil as a weapon
if the standoff with the West over its nuclear program
intensified, saying it would use every means if attacked.


The market appeared to shrug off news that China's economy grew
by 11.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with the first
three months of 2006.


"The country's economy is booming, with ever increasing demand
for commodities," said Sucden analyst Michael Davies, who played
down fears about potential Chinese interest rate hikes.


"We would argue that past experience shows that so far the
Chinese government's attempts to slow down economic growth have
had little impact," he added.

