

US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates on Thursday flew into this
former symbol of the Sunni-led insurgency in Iraq with some of
the most senior officers in the US military.


Gates was joined in Fallujah by the head of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, General Peter Pace, Central Command chief Admiral William
Fallon, Iraq operations commander General David Petaeus and his
deputy, General Raymond Odierno.


The morale-boosting visit came one day after bombers killed more
than 200 people in attacks mainly in Baghdad, and one week after
a deadly bombing inside the Iraqi capital's heavily fortified
Green Zone.


Gates, who flew to Iraq from Israel on an unannounced visit,
landed at mid- afternoon at Baghdad airport with his advisers and
a small group of reporters. The group immediately boarded waiting
helicopters bound for Fallujah.


US marines captured Fallujah after a major assault on insurgents
holed up in the city in November 2004. It has since been
relatively peaceful, and something of a model of what US forces
want to achieve for Iraq.


The US marine general in charge of ground operations in the Al-
Anbar province, General Mark Gurganus, points to signs of
progress across his area.


"Violence in Al-Anbar -- is there still some? Absolutely," said
Gurganus.


"Cautiously optimistic is probably the best way to describe the
situation," he told reporters.


He said the reasons for the modest success varied, but there had
been increased support from tribal leaders in recent months,
leading to a boom in police officers -- currently at 11,500.


The sheikhs, upset that a force of largely Shiite soldiers from
southern Iraq was deployed in Al-Anbar, worked out a deal with
the government that allowed soldiers recruited in the
overhelmingly Sunni province to serve locally for at least two
years, leading to increased military enrollment.


And in the past weeks Gurganus has seen his ground force of
nearly 17,000 marines grow by 2,000 as part of the "surge"
announced by President George W. Bush in January, with another
2,000 expected by mid-year.


US marines can now be permanently stationed with Iraqi police and
soldiers in every provincial population center, Gurganus said.


Al-Anbar is 84,000 square miles large -- "about the size of New
Mexico," Gurganus said -- but 95 percent of the province's 1.4
million residents live on five miles of either side of the
Euphrates river.


The marine general acknowledged there could also be a "squirting"
effect, with insurgents from Al-Anbar being pushed to other areas
such as Baghdad.


In any case, the final result is that compared to last year "the
level of attacks are down significantly" on US forces in Al-
Anbar, he said.


During the visit Gates met with the regional commander, General
Walter Gaskin, at Camp Fallujah. He later met with a group of
young low-ranking marines, shaking hands and chatting with them
briefly.


Fallon, Pace, Odierno, Petraeus and Gaskin flanked Gates when he
met reporters. "What's happening in Al-Anbar I think is a good
news story," Gates said. "The sheikhs have made a key role in
making good things happen out here." He summarized the situation
as "encouraging."


Petraeus said the US goal was to "help the Iraqis improve the
security situation to provide them a window of opportunity" that
would let them deal with tough issues of government.


Petraeus, an army general who is the main architect of the
"surge" strategy, was the first to acknowledge the damage caused
by Wednesday's bombings, when car bomb attacks on Shiite
districts of Baghdad slaughtered 172 people.


The attacks "came at a time we thought we were getting a bit of
traction," he said. "Clearly these sensational attacks can be
seen as none other than setbacks and challenges."


"We have always been very upfront by saying this is about months,
not weeks."


Only 60 percent of the surge forces are currently in Iraq, it
won't be until mid-June that all are in place. "And only then it
will take some time before you can actually see what capability
it will provide you," he said.

