

West Indies captain Brian Lara will be keen to cap his last
international match with a win against England when the two
under-performing teams clash in the World Cup here on Saturday.


"I am bidding farewell to international cricket as a player after
the game," Lara said after his team's 99-run victory over
Bangladesh in a Super Eights game here on Thursday.


"We still have the World Cup to finish and we have a job to do on
Saturday."


The dashing left-handed batsman holds twin batting records -- 400
not out against England in the Antigua Test in 2004 and 501
playing for Warwickshire against Durham in a first-class match.


Lara is also the only West Indies batsman to have completed
10,000 runs in one- day international cricket.


"We need a win ahead of the West Indies tour of England and it'll
be a big boost ahead of the trip," said Lara, who has scored
11,953 runs in 131 Tests with 34 centuries.


Saturday's match will also be the last for England coach Duncan
Fletcher who is stepping down after an eight-year stint with the
national side.


Lara and England skipper Michael Vaughan are both under pressure
to perform, with the West Indies captain having just one half-
century and his counterpart none in eight matches at the
tournament.


Neither side can reach the semi-finals with defending champions
Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and South Africa all having
made it to the last-four.


Both England and the West Indies performed much below
expectations as they failed to beat a big side. England have so
far posted just one win against a Test-playing nation in the
tournament when they beat Bangladesh.


The West Indies began the tournament impressively when they
trounced Pakistan, Ireland and Zimbabwe to qualify for the second
round, but disappointed their fans after losing the first four
Super Eights matches.


Inconsistent batting was the main reason for their below-par
performances as specialist batsmen could not deliver when it
mattered most.


The same is true of England who have been relying on a couple of
batsmen, including hard-hitting Kevin Pietersen who is the only
player with a century to his credit.


"Our batting has not been any good through the tournament and
it's an area we have to work on," said Vaughan, who has so far
scored 130 runs in eight Cup matches.


"We know we have a big game on Saturday. We have to come out and
improve our performance. We know we are out of the World Cup but
we have a lot of pride and we realise that there are a lot of
supporters out here who we have let down, so it's important we
put in a good performance."


England's batting problems are not confined to top of the order;
Andrew Flintoff's form has also not been encouraging as he has so
far made only 77 in seven matches.


Vaughan, however, will stay as captain against the West Indies
for May's Test series his team's flopped Cup campaign.


"Michael Vaughan is the England captain. I talked with the
chairman of selectors and he wants him to lead the side into the
West Indies Test series," said England cricket chief David
Morgan.

