

Rising Chinese star Ding Junhui features in the pick of the first
round ties at the World Snooker Championships starting on
Saturday when he takes on twice former winner Ronnie O'Sullivan.


The 20-year-old prodigy from Shanghai has been charging up the
rankings and clinched his debut appearance in snooker's prestige
event after defeating Mark David 10-6 in a final qualifier in
March.


But taking on the mercurial O'Sullivan is about as tough as it
gets for a first- timer at the Crucible which celebrates it's
30th anniversary of hosting the world championships this year.


The Chinese star lost 3-10 to O'Sullivan in the final of the
British Masters in January after which he complained about
hostile comments from the London crowd.


O'Sullivan though is doubly wary of Ding, who many see as a
potential world champion.


"My first thought was 'that's a hard one'. My next was 'someone's
fixed the draw'," the 31-year-old Englishman jokingly told Zoo
magazine.


"I've had Marco Fu, Stephen Maguire twice and now Ding in the
first round. It's definitely fixed. Whoever is doing that is
trying to stitch me up."


As always, much will depend on which O'Sullivan shows up at the
weekend.


At his best he is the sport's supreme shotmaker, capable of
destroying any opponent. At his worst he is an unpredictable and
at times sullen loser.


Never was this more dramatically illustrated than last December
when he walked out of his UK Championship quarter-final against
Stephen Hendry after just five frames.


O'Sullivan was trailing 4-1 to Hendry when he decided to concede
the match after missing a pot.


The two-time world champion shook hands with Hendry and referee
Jan Verhaas before immediately leaving the Barbican Centre arena.
He later apologised for his actions saying he had just been
frustrated at playing so poorly.


World Champion Graeme Dott will open against Ian McCulloch and if
the seeding goes according to plan he would meet fellow Scot and
seven-times former world champion Hendry in the final.


The top 16 players in the world rankings qualify for the 16-days
long tournament with 16 others making it through a series of
qualifiers.


Other former world champions in the line-up include Mark Williams
of Wales, John Higgins of Scotland, Ken Doherty of Ireland, and
Englishmen Shaun Murphy and Peter Ebdon.


And there is an intriguing opening round clash between two ageing
former world champions with Steve Davis taking on John Parrott.


They last met at the Crucible 16 years ago when Parrott won 16-12
in the semi- finals. That avenged Davis's record 18-3 win in the
1989 final.


The loser, however, will not be heading home straight away as
both are members of the BBC commentary team.


1st rd draw (Best of 19 frames)


Graeme Dott (SCO) v Ian McCulloch (ENG)


Anthony Hamilton (ENG) v Marco Fu (HKG)


Stephen Maguire (SCO) v Joe Perry (ENG)


Mark Williams (WAL) v Joe Swail (NIR)


John Higgins (SCO) v Michael Holt (ENG)


Barry Hawkins (ENG) v Fergal O'Brien (IRL)


Neil Robertson (AUS) v Ryan Day (WAL)


Ronnie O'Sullivan (ENG) v Ding Junhui (CHN)


Ken Doherty (IRL) v Mark Allen (NIR)


Matthew Stevens (WAL) v Joe Delaney (IRL)


Steve Davis (ENG) v John Parrott (ENG)


Shaun Murphy (ENG) v Judd Trump (ENG)


Peter Ebdon (ENG) v Nigel Bond (ENG)


Stephen Lee (ENG) v Mark Selby (ENG)


Ali Carter (ENG) v Andy Hicks (ENG)


Stephen Hendry (SCO) v David Gilbert (ENG)

