

The United States criticized Iraqi Kurdish leader Massud Barzani
Monday for threatening to fuel Kurdish separatist fervor in
Turkey amid a spike in tensions between the neighbors.


"We think that those kinds of statements are really unhelpful and
they certainly do not further the goal of greater Turkish-Iraqi
cooperation," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in
response to Barzani's remarks.


"We think that Iraqi leaders should focus on how they might work
together closely with the Turkish government to further their
mutual interests in a stable, secure Iraq," he said.


Mccormack also confirmed that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
spoke with her Turkish counterpart, Abdullah Gul, over the
weekend as the dispute with the Iraqis heated up.


Barzani, the head of the autonomous Kurdish region in northern
Iraq, was quoted in a weekend interview threatening to interfere
in Turkey's affairs if Ankara continued to oppose Kurdish claims
on the oil-rich city of Kirkuk.


The future status of the northern Iraqi city is scheduled to be
decided in a referendum before the end of this year. Turkey wants
the vote postponed, arguing that thousands of Kurds have been
moved into the city to change its demography.


Ankara worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk and its vast oil
reserves would embolden what it believes are Kurdish ambitions to
break away from Baghdad.


Kurdish independence, it fears, could fuel the two-decade Kurdish
separatist insurgency in adjoining southeast Turkey.


Tensions are already high between the two sides over Turkish
accusations that Iraqi Kurds tolerate, and even support,
thousands of armed Turkish Kurd rebels who have found refuge in
the mountains of northern Iraq.


Ankara has threatened a cross-border operation into the region to
crack down on the rebel camps if Baghdad and Washington fail to
act against them.


Barzani's latest remarks sparked an angry response from Turkish
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who warned the Iraqi Kurds
on Monday that hostility toward his country could result in a
"very heavy cost" for them.


A senior Turkish diplomat told AFP that Gul conveyed Turkey's
annoyance to Rice during their weekend telephone conversation.


According to McCormack, Rice sought to calm tensions and thanked
Gul for his efforts to convene a meeting of Iraq's neighbors and
major world powers next month to discuss ways to stabilize Iraq.


Washington had sought to have the meeting held in Istanbul, but
Baghdad chose instead to organize the gathering in Egypt,
reportedly in response to pressure from Iraqi Kurds.


Rice "expressed her support for Turkey's actions in rallying the
neighbors to get together for the Iraq neighbors conference," he
said.


McCormack also echoed Turkish concerns that the rebel Kurdish
Workers' Party (PKK) could step up cross-border attacks into
Turkey as warmer spring weather arrives.


Rice has named a retired US general, Joseph Ralston, as a special
envoy  working to lower tensions between the Turks and Iraqi
Kurds.


"We're now coming up on the springtime, which is traditionally
when the PKK goes on the offensive, crossing the border into
Turkey. Nobody wants to see that," he said.

