

Banned Basques separatist party Batasuna must disown its armed
wing ETA if it wants to participate in regional elections in May,
a Spanish ruling party official said Monday.


Jose Blanco, the Socialist party general secretary, said Batasuna
needed to decide between "bombs or votes" if it wanted to contest
the polls.


"Batsuna knows what it has to do. Dissociate from violence,
abandon ETA's umbrella and respect the law," he told a news
conference a day after ETA declared a renewed commitment to peace
following a failed ceasefire.


"There can be no concessions, no blackmail. There can only be
determination and firmness to apply the law," he added.


In a lengthy interview published in the Basque newspaper Gara,
two unnamed ETA fighters said Sunday the group could envision a
"scenario with no more violence" if "attacks" by the Spanish
government also ceased.


They also stood by ETA's ceasefire declaration of March 24 last
year, despite a December car bombing at Madrid's airport that
killed two people and threw the Socialist government's peace
initiatives into disarray.


The sources said the armed group was committed to peace but could
not imagine regional elections taking place in May without the
participation of Basque leftist nationals like Batasuna.


"Holding non-democratic elections would extend the conflict," the
two said in what was ETA's first statement since it claimed
responsibility for the December attack.


The Spanish government has said Batasuna could only take part in
the May 27 elections in the northern Basque and Navarre regions
if it gave an unequivocal statement disowning ETA, whose 38-year-
old campaign for Basque independence has claimed over 800 lives.


Batasuna has set up a new party called Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, which hopes to participate in the elections but Spanish
prosecutors have asked the Supreme Court to ban it.


The European Union and the United States consider Batasuna --
which won about 10 percent of the vote in the 2001 municipal
elections in the Basque region -- and ETA to be terrorist
organisations.

