

Spanish media reacted with scepticism on Monday to an apparent
offer by the armed Basque separatist group ETA to renew its
commitment to peace as long as the Spanish government ceases its
"attacks" on the northern Basque region.


"If the attacks on the Basque homeland disappear, we are prepared
to make firm commitments to a scenario of non-violence," ETA said
in a lengthy interview with unnamed fighters published Sunday in
Basque newspaper Gara, the armed group's usual mouthpiece.


But while ETA also stood by its ceasefire declaration of March
2006, even though that was interrupted in December with a car
bomb attack at Madrid's airport that left two people dead, it
said it would not give up its arms "under the current
conditions."


"The reasons for resorting to an armed fight still exist," it
said.


ETA also said it could not imagine May regional elections taking
place without the participation of Basque leftist nationals like
ETA's political wing, Batasuna, which is banned from
participating in elections because of its links to the group.


"Holding non-democratic elections would extend the conflict," it
said in a threatening tone.


Daily newspaper El Pais, which is close to the Socialist
government, said in an editorial that ETA's insistence that its
ceasefire continued despite the Madrid airport bombing was
"delirious".


"This is a cunning argument which deserves no credibility," it
said.


The newspaper said Basque leftist nationals could take part in
the regional elections as long as they adhered to a 2003 law
which requires all political parties to denounce violence.


The Spanish government has said Batasuna could only take part in
the polls if it gave an unequivocal statement disowning ETA,
whose 38-year-old campaign for Basque independence has claimed
over 800 lives.


Batasuna set up a new party called Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, which hoped to participate in the May 27 elections in
the northern Basque and Navarre regions, but Spanish prosecutors
have asked the Supreme Court to ban this party as well.


A spokeswoman for the government refused to comment on the Gara
interview, saying only that it expects "a definitive renunciation
of violence" from the group, while the main opposition Popular
Party said the ETA interview was blackmail.


Right-wing daily La Razon echoed the Popular Party's position,
saying ETA was trying to blackmail Prime Minister Jose Luis
Rodriguez Zapatero into allowing Batasuna to take part in the
elections.


"This is the core of ETA's message," it wrote in an editorial.


Rival right-wing daily ABC meanwhile said the Gara interview
"showed how it is impossible to negotiate with terrorists to put
an end to violence."

