

Risks to the global economy have lessened compared to six months
ago but their nature has changed, International Monetary Fund
chief Rodrigo Rato said Monday.


In a speech here, Rato also said that rapid progress on reform of
IMF members' voting rights was unlikely to come at this weekend's
annual spring meeting of the Fund and the World Bank.


"Where is the global economy now? I do not think that the risks
are greater than they were six months ago," the IMF managing-
director said at the Peterson Institute of International
Economics.


"Actually, I think they are a little lower. But some of the risks
are different, and there is greater consciousness of the
uncertainties and paradoxes that lie behind our current
prosperity," Rato said.


He highlighted the fact that world economic growth reached five
percent last year but that skittish financial markets shed four
percent in value in just a day in February, owing to fears for
Chinese share values and US growth.


IMF officials, however, believe that the United States will avert
recession and soon bounce back from a housing-led slowdown, while
the rest of the global economy is in good shape.


On Wednesday, the IMF publishes its twice-yearly World Economic
Outlook report, replete with detailed forecasts for growth among
its 185 members.


According to a report in the Financial Times Deutschland, the IMF
is set to forecast world growth of 4.9 percent this year and 4.8
percent next.


The business newspaper said the IMF report would forecast US
growth in 2007 of 2.2 percent and 2.8 percent next year. That
would be down from 3.3 percent last year.


Under Rato meanwhile, the six-decade-old Fund is trying to
overhaul its historic role as a lender of last resort to
countries embroiled in financial crisis.


Ten years after crisis swept through East Asian economies, the
IMF is seen as less relevant to fast-emerging powers like China,
whose build-up of huge currency reserves has made the country far
less reliant on outside help.


At annual talks in September, the IMF raised the voting power of
China and three other countries -- South Korea, Mexico and Turkey
-- but it faces disquiet from several European and developing
nations about deeper reform.


Rato played down expectations for progress in the reform debate
before mid-2007 at the earliest.


"The problem is some political decision(making)," he said,
expressing hope that the IMF can "narrow down" a new voting
formula by the fall or autumn and then get down to detailed
changes.

