

Former great Colin Croft took a swipe at West Indies' cricket top
brass on Monday, saying he blames the team's woeful World Cup
performance on the management, including boss Clive Lloyd.


The hosts face South Africa in a must-win Super Eights match in
Grenada on Tuesday where a defeat will virtually eliminate them
from the World Cup.


Since their all-win record in the group stage, the West Indies
have lost to Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka - defeats which
have left Caribbean fans fuming.


"I put the entire blame of the West Indies players not seeming to
care on the team management, including Lloyd, the present manager
and the rest of the West Indies Cricket Board (WICB)," Croft
wrote in his column in the Guyana Chronicle.


"West Indies players have managed to get miles ahead of the WICB
and the people put in charge," added Croft, who played 27 Tests
and 19 one-day internationals for the West Indies, mostly under
Lloyd as captain.


The organisers, already criticised for lack of crowds and high
ticket prices, fear worse attendance and lack of interest should
Brian Lara's men go out of the tournament.


Croft said the attitude of the players was unacceptable.


"Even before that fatal game against Sri Lanka, the West Indies'
practice session was something to behold, or perhaps not to. It
was lacklustre as ever, with players even complaining that the
sun was hot."


"Are these people for real? This is cricket, right."


Croft said managment hiccups have led to poor performances and
off-field problems in the past.


"This has happened in the past, so, unfortunately, this is not
unprecedented....remember the debacle in South Africa in 1998
when Lloyd was the manager," said Croft of the tour when the West
Indies were beaten 5-0 in Tests and 6-1 in one-day series.


The tour was also hit by players' demands for more money which
put the tour in doubt. It only took place after the WICB
president flew to London and settled the matter.


Croft thanked Bangladesh for upsetting South Africa in the Super
Eights.


Bangladesh beat South Africa by 67 runs on Saturday, to throw
open the race for the semi-finals with all but Ireland in the
hunt. It also threw a lifeline to the struggling hosts who can
now sneak through the back door.


"Several scenarios could now be unfolding. South Africa can lose
all their remaining games, to go home, complaining as they always
do, when they lose. It is never their team's fault.


"All conquering Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka are almost
certain. Delicious, wonderful cricket, cricket with enthusiasm is
still in the offing," enthused Croft.

