

The chairman of the International Rugby Board (IRB), Dr Syd
Millar, on Monday described as "absolutely disgraceful" the
English and French clubs' decision to boycott the European Cup.


Dr Millar attacked French clubs chief Serge Blanco for his role
in the affair and said the clubs' "selfish" attitude would not be
allowed to "dictate the course of world rugby."


The boycott stems from the Rugby Football Union's (RFU) refusal
to hand 50 percent of its shareholding and voting rights in
European Rugby Cup Ltd to the English clubs.


As a result, the French clubs voted to boycott both tiers of
European competition - the Europaen Cup and the Challenge Cup -
last Thursday and the English immediately followed suit.


But Dr Millar insists there is still time to reach a workable
solution and the IRB will host a meeting of the six affected
unions in Dublin on Wednesday in a bid to reach an agreement. The
talks will take place after the planned European Rugby Cup Ltd
board meeting.


Dr Millar's offer to broker a deal comes at the end of a 903-word
statement in which he attacks those who represent the club game
in both England and France.


"The decision by the French and English clubs to withdraw from
the European Rugby Cup has been described as regrettable,
unfortunate and shameful," he said.


"It is more than that. It is absolutely disgraceful and selfish
to destroy a tournament which has developed into a hugely
successful and special annual rugby event that is vital to the
well being of European Rugby. It will have serious consequence
for world rugby."


Dr Millar laid into Blanco's actions and claimed: "It is
unbelievable that one man should be allowed to bring European
rugby to this state. It is difficult for the average rugby
supporter to understand why Serge Blanco has withdrawn the French
clubs.


"He talks now for support for the English Premiership clubs, he
talks of respect. What respect has he shown for those who have
worked hard to develop this tournament into the excellent event
that it has become?


"What respect is he showing for other European rugby nations who
will suffer financial hardship with a direct consequence to
player employment?


"What respect is there for the players who enjoy and want to play
in the tournament? What respect is there for the supporters who
have enjoyed the event and travelled in their tens of thousand
throughout Europe in support of their teams therefore producing a
great festival of rugby?


"What respect is he showing for the sponsors and media who have
made their contribution to the tournament? None.


"What respect has he shown for the French Rugby Federation and
French rugby in a year that is hugely important for the game in
France as it hosts the Rugby World Cup in September and October?


"He says he has no dispute with his own national union but why is
he interfering with the affairs of another union?"


Dr Millar then suggested Blanco was being "used" by English clubs
who are mounting a campaign to "destroy" the ERC and "challenge
the way club rugby is governed through national unions and the
International Rugby Board."


Dr Millar dismissed Blanco's arguments that fixture congestion
caused by the World Cup means they cannot find room for the
European Cup.


He insisted there is still time for a deal to be struck but it
will need the clubs to backtrack from their militant stance.


"The rugby unions of the world will not allow 26 clubs to dictate
the course of world rugby and the present situation has brought
those unions even closer and more determined to preserve the game
for the good of all," said Dr Millar.


"The IRB is attempting to facilitate a solution and in this
instance we still have time to get around the table to find a
workable solution."


Dr Millar also plans meetings with other unions around the world
to "allay their fears on the direction professional rugby is
taking in Europe due to the actions of the English and French
clubs."

