

In the latest development in a controversial nuclear drive which
dates back to before the 1979 Islamic revolution, Iran announced
on Monday it is now producing enriched uranium on an industrial
scale.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad gave no figures over how many
centrifuges Iran had installed at the Natanz plant to enrich
uranium, a process that can produce nuclear fuel but in highly
extended form can also make the fissile core for an atomic bomb.


Atomic energy organisation chief Gholam Reza Aghazadeh said Iran
had now started mass production of the centrifuges, which are set
up in long cascades to enrich the uranium from the gas feedstock.


The Islamic republic insists that its nuclear drive is solely
aimed at supplying energy for a growing population, but the
United States has accused the oil-rich country of using the drive
as cover for weapons ambitions.


Herewith is an overview of Iran's progress at its main nuclear
sites:


MINING


-- Iran has three mines for extracting uranium ore, in Saghand
and Anarak in the centre as well as Gchin in the south, according
to the UN's International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Its
reserves are not known but are believed to be insufficient for an
industrial-scale nuclear programme.


CONVERSION


-- Raw mined uranium is then transformed into "yellowcake" and
transferred to a Uranium Conversion Facility (UCF) protected by a
battery of anti-aircraft guns on the edge of Isfahan, the ancient
capital of Persia.


-- The mined uranium is transformed into uranium tetrafluoride
(UF4) and then into uranium hexafluoride (UF6), a feed gas for
the actual process of enrichment.


-- Work at the vast facility had been suspended up until August
2005 as Iran pursued talks with the European Union over its
nuclear programme, but Tehran then resumed the process in
defiance of the Europeans.


-- 270 tons of UF6 have now been produced at the plant, Iran
announced on Monday.


ENRICHMENT


-- Iran announced the same day that it is now producing fuel on
an industrial scale.


-- The underground Natanz facility is designed to host cascades
of thousands of centrifuges. UF6 gas is fed into the centrifuges,
which spin at supersonic speeds to enrich the uranium.


-- Natanz also has two cascades of 164 centrifuges at an
overground test plant.


-- Iran is also trying to develop advanced P2 centrifuges --
devices that are capable of making weapons-grade uranium more
efficiently than the P1 technology currently in use.


-- The facility is particularly controversial: Iran only declared
it to the IAEA after the site was exposed in 2002 by an exiled
opposition group.


POWER PLANT


-- The construction of Iran's atomic power plant near the
southern port city of Bushehr with Russian help has been hit by a
string of delays. It is due to go online this year but each side
has accused the other of financing problems.


-- The project was first launched by the late shah of Iran,
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, in the 1970s. It was stalled due to the
1979 Islamic revolution and the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq war.


-- In the early 1990s Iran began to search for aid to revive the
project. In 1995, it found help from Russia, which has also
agreed to fuel the plant, with the supply deal committing Iran to
returning any spent material.


HEAVY WATER REACTOR


-- Iran has been building the Arak heavy water research reactor
on the outskirts of the village of Khondab. Heavy water reactors
do not need enriched uranium fuel in order to function.


-- Ahmadinejad in August 2006 inaugurated a heavy water
production plant to supply heavy water to be used as coolant and
moderator for the 40 megawatt research reactor due for completion
by 2009.


-- The IAEA is concerned about the proliferation risk, as the
reactor could produce 8-10 kilograms (about 20 pounds) of
plutonium a year, enough to make at least one nuclear bomb.

