

West Indies captain Brian Lara said Monday his players had taken
a good look at their failings which have threatened to derail
their World Cup campaign.


But Lara said his players were confident going into a make-or-
break Super Eights game against South Africa at the Grenada
National Stadium here Tuesday.


Responding to accusations that under his captaincy the West
Indies had played lacklustre cricket and appeared to lack
motivation, Lara said: "We have three games left and if we win
all three we have a good chance of playing in the semi- finals.
That is enough motivation."


Lara acknowledged that his team had under-performed in their most
recent game, against Sri Lanka in Guyana eight days ago.


"Yes, we did look flat," he said. "But in the last few days the
guys have looked in the mirror and we've moved on."


The West Indies captain said a quick succession of games in the
early stages of the Super Eights had drained his team but the
nine-day break before the South African game was a positive.


"Everyone was looking forward to the break. We're definitely
refreshed, we've had some good net sessions and the guys are
looking forward to the remainder of the tournament."


He said the pressure of playing in a World Cup at home could be
turned into a positive, especially if the team gained support
from home crowds.


"If we gain some momentum, crowd support and the fact that we are
playing at home will be a big advantage," said Lara whose team
have lost to Australia, Sri Lanka and New Zealand in the second
round so far.


He added that playing World Cups away had not helped the West
Indies either.


"It's the first time the West Indies have been hosting a World
Cup and Ive never played in a final in my five World Cups," said
the veteram skipper whose leadership has been called constantly
into question over the last week.


Lara said South Africa's shock 67-run defeat against Bangladesh
Saturday had given the West Indies some pointers.


"Bangladesh batted professionally so they had a total to defend
and then they put South Africa under pressure. The most important
thing in this World Cup is to put teams under pressure," he
explained.


"Against Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka we were under
pressure in the first 20 overs and then it gets very difficult."

