

The United States was set to announce Monday a WTO complaint
against China over copyright piracy, in an escalation of the
administration's new get-tough approach to trade frictions.


In parallel, according to an administration source, the
government was to launch action at the World Trade Organization
accusing China of restricting the distribution of foreign music,
films and books.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab was expected to unveil the
measures at a press conference scheduled for 1700 GMT, signaling
a more muscular stance to the administration's perennial
complaints over Chinese trade policy.


The action at the Geneva-based arbiter of global commerce would
come as the government faces rising pressure from the Democratic-
led Congress to confront China over its industrial policies,
currency regime and other headaches.


The pressure has intensified as the US trade deficit with China
ballooned to more than 200 billion dollars last year, a yawning
imbalance explained in part by US consumers' voracious appetite
for cheap Chinese imports.


But many US lawmakers allege that Chinese government subsidies,
discrimination against foreign companies and a skewed exchange
rate are unfairly fueling the country's export machine.


While hailing a new willingness by China's leaders to protect
copyright, through installing legal software on all government
computers for instance, US companies still complain that the
country is a hotbed of fraud.


According to a Congress-appointed panel, China's own data
estimates that counterfeit products account for 15 to 20 percent
of products made in the country, or eight percent of its 2.2
trillion-dollar economy.


Last October, Washington informed China that it would be filing a
piracy case but then backed off, with the support of US
businesses, when Beijing asked for further bilateral discussion
to address American concerns.


While pressing for China to clean up its rampant copyright
piracy, US business leaders are wary of a damaging clash with the
rising Asian giant.


Tom Donahue, president of the powerful US Chamber of Commerce,
warned last month against "the risk of cutting off our nose to
spite our face" through driving up prices of goods and reducing
choice for consumers.


Getting tough after years of quiet diplomacy, the United States
took China to the WTO in February in a complaint over industrial
subsidies. The global body will set up a settlement panel if the
two nations fail to iron out the dispute within 60 days.


And in an unprecedented decision late last month, the United
States announced penalty tariffs on China to offset government
subsidies for a paper product.


But in announcing that decision, Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez stressed that the administration was not retreating
from economic engagement with China.


"Rather it speaks to the growing strength of our commercial
relationship and the fact that as economic partners, we must be
above all fair," he said. "We will continue to apply this
principle to all our trading partners."

