

The only woman among the 15 British sailors seized by Iran said
Monday she was forced to strip by her captors, feared rape and
execution and felt like a "traitor" when she signed "confession"
letters.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney and the youngest member of the eight
sailors and seven marines freed last week told the British media
of their ordeal after being given special permission to sell
their stories.


Iran hit back with new footage of the Britons playing table
tennis and chess, which it insisted showed they were well
treated.


Turney, 26, told The Sun newspaper that her interrogators taunted
her with threats to her life.


"At one stage ... (the interrogator) asked me, 'How do you feel
about dying for your country?" she said.


"The next day, another interrogator said to me, 'You don't
understand, you must cooperate with us. Do you not want to see
your daughter again?"


In an interview aired with commercial broadcaster ITV Monday
evening, Turney said she was also made to strip: "Initially ...
when I got taken up to my cell, I was in my overalls ... When I
got to my cell, they made me take my overalls off, my bra off,
and I had to put on a set of pyjamas."


She added that she was not allowed to wash until the fourth day
of her captivity.


Turney said that soon after their capture in the northern Gulf,
she mouthed to one of the group's officers, Royal Marines Captain
Chris Air: "Are they going to rape me?


"They kept staring at me and repeating 'woman, woman'."


She also said that at one point she feared her captors were
"making my coffin" after she heard "the noise of wood sawing and
nails being hammered near my cell ... Then a woman came into my
cell to measure me up from head to toe."


Iranian television showed letters written by Turney which
apologised for entering Iranian waters and called for British
troops to leave Iraq. She said she was forced to write the
documents.


"When they wanted me to write what was written about the British
and American troops I felt like a traitor to my own country," she
told ITV.


"I had no choice. If I didn't comply I was looking at being
charged with being a spy."


She told ITV that, at times during the two-week ordeal, she cried
herself to sleep, because "it got a bit much and when I thought
of my family and what they must be going through, that was the
hardest part."


The youngest captive, Able Seaman Arthur Batchelor, 20, said he
was also stripped to his underpants, left in solitary confinement
for several days, cried himself to sleep and an interrogator
indicated that he might not see his family again.


Following their capture on March 23, Batchelor said: "I was
frozen in terror and just stared into the darkness of my
blindfold. I could feel the emotion welling up inside me."


He added that he had been berated for his youth and diminutive
appearance.


Iran has insisted that the naval personnel were tresspassing in
Iranian waters. Britain insists the group was conducting routine
anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters under a United Nations
mandate.


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between them, with Turney
standing to net around 100,000 pounds.


Critics have blasted the defence ministry for relaxing its ban on
service personnel striking financial deals with media
organisations.


But Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman, the other captured
officer, defended Turney and Batchelor.


"I personally find the subject (of payment) a bit unsavoury, but
I don't begrudge people who have been through an awful ordeal
making a bit of money out of this," he told GMTV television.


Later Monday, Defence Secretary Des Browne banned military
service personnel from selling their stories, saying the Navy had
"not reached a satisfactory outcome" in its decision to allow the
sailors to financially benefit from their experiences.


The ministry ordered a review of military rules amid growing
anger over its decision.


Iranian television broadcast fresh footage Monday of the group
playing games, watching football on television and eating kebabs
and soup.


"These pictures show the relaxation and freedom they enjoyed
during their detention period. This contradicts what they said
when they arrived home in Britain," said a newsreader.


But Carman told Sky News television the sailors appeared happy
because they had been reunited after 12 days in solitary
confinement.


John Bolton, the US ambassador to the United Nations in
2005-2006, wrote in the Financial Times newspaper that
Ahmadinejad had scored a triumph.


He said Britain had been too soft on Iran. "The only thing risen
from this crisis is Iranian determination and resolve to confront
us elsewhere, at their discretion, whether on Iraq, nuclear
weapons or terrorism," he wrote.

