

Sunderland completed their sensational turnaround under rookie
manager Roy Keane when they claimed top spot in the English
Championship on Monday and pole position in the race for the
Premiership.


Former Republic of Ireland and Manchester United captain Keane
took over the Black Cats in August, when they were one place from
the bottom of the table after earning just three points from
their first five league games.


But they made it right the way to the top -- for the first time
since they were promoted as champions two seasons ago -- thanks
to a late recovery at play-off spot chasers Southampton.


Marek Saganowski put the Saints ahead in the 67th minute at St
Mary's but the visitors equalised though a splendid individual
goal from Trinidad and Tobago winger Carlos Edwards, 10 minutes
later, and won it through Grant Leadbitter's strike with three
minutes to go.


The 2-1 win saw them overtake Derby County at the top by one
point. The Rams drew 1-1 with visitors Coventry City at Pride
Park, meaning Derby took just two points from a possible six over
the Easter period.


Leon McKenzie gave the Sky Blues the lead in the 73rd minute but
Rams captain Matt Oakley rescued a point 11 minutes from time to
leave them on 78 points with four games remaining as their title
charge stumbles.


Birmingham City stay third in the table, the top play-off spot,
despite a shock 1-0 defeat at relegation-threated Barnsley that
could prove deadly to their automatic promotion hopes.


West Bromwich Albion dominated throughout at Carrow Road but
scraped a last-gasp 2-1 win at Norwich City.


Dickson Etuhu put the Canaries in front on 58 minutes but Sam
Sodje equalised with a 73rd-minute volley before Senegal striker
Diomansy Kamara hit a last- minute winner.


The Baggies move up one place to fourth on 70 points.


Their bitter Black Country rivals Wolverhampton Wanderers beat
visitors Hull City 3-1 at Molineux to move into fifth place on 69
points.


Jay Bothroyd scored either side of a Seyi George Olofinjana goal
before Nicky Forster hit a consolation goal for the Tigers.


Preston North End lost 3-2 at home to relegation zone scrappers
Southend United thanks to two goals in the last two minutes.
Preston are on 68 points in the final play-off spot.


Stoke are a point behind them after beating visitors Crystal
Palace 2-1 at the Britannia Stadium.


Southampton dropped to seventh in the table.


Thanks to Barnsley's win at Oakwell, Leeds United, 2001 Champions
League semi- finalists, joined Southend and Luton Town back in
the relegation zone.


In League One directly below, Scunthorpe United still lead the
way with Bristol City in second place. Twice European Cup winners
Nottingham Forest are four points behind them in the top play-off
place.

