

Psychiatrists and doctors on Monday joined in attacking France's
right-wing presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy for arguing
that paedophilia was a genetic trait.


Bernard Golse, a child psychiatrist at Paris' Necker hospital
said Sarkozy's comments reflected a "very linear, reductive and
falsely predictable way of using genetics" and that it would be
"scientifically baseless to launch a crusade based on the genetic
aspects of paedophilia".


He described Sarkozy's remarks -- which were criticised by
Archbishop of Paris Andre Vingt-Trois -- as "purely ideological
nonsense, and completely out of touch with current scientific and
genetic knowledge."


In an interview with Philosophie magazine, Sarkozy said he was
"inclined to think that people are born paedophiles, and that it
is also a problem that we do not know how to manage." He also
said he thought teenage suicides occurred "because, genetically,
they are fragile and have a pre-existing sadness."


Christine Bellas-Cabane, chair of the French union of mother and
infant doctors, SNPMI, attacked Sarkozy's argument that
paedophilia was predetermined as "extremely dangerous".


Both Golse and Bellas-Cabane backed a petition last year against
plans by Sarkozy, then interior minister, to vet toddlers for
behavioural problems as a way to prevent teenage delinquency.


Insisting there is "no such thing as a gene for an unhappy life,"
the geneticist Axel Kahn also took aim at "an entire current that
maintains that genes... are responsible for certain social
disorders".


Gerard Schmidt of the French college of child psychiatry warned
against making predictions based on an individual's genetic make-
up, saying the human brain continues to mature through to
adolescence.


A spokeswoman for the Socialist Segolene Royal, Sarkozy's main
rival for the presidency, called on him to explain his comments.


Najat Belkacem said his comments were not a "campaign 'blunder'"
but the sign of a "deeply reactionary and anti-humanist
programme".


"With him it is always the same who make it, always the same who
are abandoned to what he sees as their destiny as losers," she
said.


His centrist rival Francois Bayrou has called his comments on
paedophilia "terribly worrying" and "chilling".


Sarkozy is leading the race two weeks ahead of the April 22 first
round of voting. A decider between the top two candidates will be
held on May 6.

