

Iran's defiant announcement Monday that it had expanded its
nuclear enrichment program proves that UN sanctions against
Tehran were justified, the State Department spokesman said.


Spokesman Sean McCormack called a speech in which Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said the Islamic republic would
defend its atomic program "to the end" a "missed opportunity" by
the increasingly isolated regime in Tehran.


Ahmadinejad also said in a speech at Iran's main nuclear site
that the country was now producing enriched nuclear fuel "on an
industrial scale" in defiance of UN demands it suspend the
program, which the West fears is ultimatetly aimed at producing
nuclear arms.


"It's quite clear that this is in defiance of the international
community's calls for Iran to suspend its enrichment-related
activities and to enter into negotiations," McCormack told
reporters.


"It points to the idea that the actions that we are taking in
concert with members of the Security Council are the right ones
to take, that they're legitimate based on Iran's behavior," he
said.


"The speech today only further justifies the action that the
Security Council has taken," he said.


Iran insists its nuclear reprocessing work is designed only to
provide fuel for a civilian nuclear power industry.


But McCormack countered that the United States and its major
partners had offered to help Iran develop a peaceful nuclear
power program if it will heed UN demands for a suspension of its
uranium enrichment.


"It's a missed opportunity," he said of Ahmadinejad's speech.


"He could have come out today and said that Iran would engage in
negotiations, that it would suspend its enrichment-related
activity and Iran could realize what it says it wants to achieve,
and that is a peaceful nuclear energy program," he said.


McCormack declined to comment on a separate statement by Iran's
lead nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, threatening to pull out of
the nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty if Iran is subjected to
further international pressure.

