

Four years after the fall of Saddam Hussein, it remains uncertain
whether a new US strategy can bring peace and stability to Iraq,
despite army assertions that the situation is improving.


Amid a wave of unchecked sectarian violence, President George W.
Bush announced in January that he was sending an extra 25,000
troops to quell unrest in Baghdad and Al-Anbar province.


"The intent is to create the climate so that the political
leadership (in Iraq) can, in fact, reconcile their differences
and bring back the unity of this country," US military spokesman
in Baghdad William Caldwell told CNN on Monday.


Caldwell was upbeat on the results of the troop "surge" so far.


"I was just down in Baghdad two days ago, walking through the
city, and I can tell the difference from two months ago to today
in terms of the environment," he said.


"You can just sense and feel there is a difference amongst the
people and how they see things."


"I mean, we still have challenges. I don't want to minimize that
at all. And there's still a long ways to go and there are still
threats out there, but the people are moving on with their lives
and they're seeing hope for the first time."


Caldwell said that on a scale of one to 10, with 10 being the
best possible situation in security terms, Baghdad had risen to a
six or a seven today, up from a four or a five two months ago.


Defense Secretary Robert Gates has refused to be overly
optimistic, something for which his predecessor Donald Rumsfeld
was soundly criticized.


"I think we'll just have to wait several more months before we're
in a position to make any real evaluations," he said last week.


"As we have indicated, the early signs are positive," he said,
but added: "It's a tough environment."


Republican US presidential candidate John McCain, who earlier
this month toured a Baghdad market and insisted things were
improving, on Sunday defended his optimistic stand.


"I went to Iraq to gain a first hand view of the progress in this
difficult war, not to celebrate any victories. No one has been
more critical of sunny progress reports that defied realities in
Iraq," he wrote in the Washington Post.


"We held a news conference to discuss what we saw: positive
signs, underreported in the United States, that are reason for
cautious optimism."


But Bush's "surge" strategy remains unpopular at home, where he
is locked in a showdown with US lawmakers who have sought to tie
funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to a timetable for
withdrawing from Iraq.


And the US public is skeptical and weary of the war in which
around 3,260 US military personnel have died since the March 2003
invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon figures.


In Baghdad, US military spokesman Rear Admiral Mark Fox admitted
that the past years had been "disappointing, frustrating and
increasingly dangerous in many parts of Iraq."


Marking the anniversary, hundreds of thousands of Shiites burned
and stamped on US flags at an anti-US protest called by firebrand
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


The White House downplayed the anti-US rallies, saying such
demonstrations were a hopeful sign of freedom.


"This is a country that has come a long way from the tyranny of
Saddam Hussein," said spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


"Iraq, four years on, is now a place where people can freely
gather and express their opinions. And that was something they
could not do under Saddam," he said.


Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman also said it was interesting to
note that there were some "peaceful demonstrations, something
that would not have taken place four years ago."


Separately the Pentagon announced that some 13,000 National Guard
troops have been ordered to prepare for duty in Iraq starting in
December.


The troops, if deployed, would replace units currently in Iraq
and would be separate from the controversial "surge," the
Pentagon said.


The National Guard is made up of volunteer militias in each US
state, and are under the command of each state's governor, except
in wartime, when the US president may take command.


A US Defense Department spokesman said last week that some 30,000
US troops sent as reinforcements to Iraq were likely to remain in
the war-torn country at least until the end of August.

