

Sevilla players have warned Tottenham Hotspur that they don't
plan to sit back and defend their lead when the two sides meet in
London for their UEFA Cup quarter-final, second leg on Thursday.


The Spaniards won 2-1 in the first leg on home turf last
Thursday, a game that sadly also made the headlines for more
crowd trouble involving English football fans.


"I don't think you are going to see a 0-0 draw (at White Hart
Lane ground) because that's not the Sevilla style," said the
Spanish club's Danish midfielder Christian Poulsen on Monday.


"Spurs also need to go forward and score a goal, and they are
very fast on the break. They have good forwards but we do as
well," added Poulsen.


Poulsen, one of the stars of the season for Sevilla who are in
second place in La Liga and have also made the Spanish Cup semi-
finals, was rested for Sunday's 0-0 draw with Racing Santander.
"I feel fresh for Thursday," he added.


However, with Sevilla being the only Spanish club in three
competitions, some pundits are wondering whether some recent
lacklustre perfromances suggest their players are running out of
steam.


"I am not tired," said Sevilla's Brazilian international Daniel
Alves, who many rate as the best right back currently playing in
Europe.


"Some days are good, some days are not so good. However, all my
life I have dreamed about playing 100 games a year and so if I
play 50 or 60 that is also good, but I always want to play,"
commented Alves on Monday.


"I want to play, play and play and some days I will be less
effective than others but I will never lack fight.


"There is no time to breathe and we have to change this
situation. (The Spurs game) will be a difficult battle, but if we
want to get to the final we have to get past this difficulty," he
added Alves, giving Spurs a warning that they will have to work
hard if they are to make the semi-finals.


The winner between arguably the two strongest clubs still in the
UEFA Cup faces an almost certain semi-final against another
Spanish side Osasuna.


Osasuna won 3-0 at Bayer Leverkusen to make them overwhelming
favourites to progress.

