

Iran on Monday again defied Western powers by announcing it has
boosted its sensitive nuclear activities to an "industrial scale"
as it marked a national day of atomic technology.


"We have gathered here today to celebrate the entry of the
uranium enrichment project into an industrial level, thanks to
God's eternal blessing," head of its atomic energy organisation
Gholam Reza Aghazadeh told a ceremony at Iran's most sensitive
nuclear plant.


He added that Iran has also started mass-producing the
centrifuges needed for the enrichment of uranium, a process the
West wants Iran to halt over fears that it could used to produce
nuclear weapons.


"Today, with the start of mass-producing centrifuges and the
start of uranium enrichment on an industrial phase, another step
was taken for the flourishing of the Islamic republic," he said.


Aghazadeh's comments came before President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
was set to again irk Western powers in a speech at the same
ceremony by providing more details about progress in Iran's
nuclear programme.


Just days after Tehran released 15 British sailors to end a
potentially dangerous stand-off with London, the announcement
that Iran has achieved industrial-scale enrichment is likely to
further strain tensions with the West.


The Islamic republic insists that its nuclear drive is solely
aimed at supplying energy for a growing population.


Iran's stated aim is to install 3,000 uranium-enriching
centrifuges at a massive underground hall at the Natanz plant,
and local media have speculated that Ahmadinejad's announcement
will focus on progress towards this goal.


Tehran originally wanted to have the 3,000 installed by March,
but so far it has officially confirmed only that it has put in
place two cascades of 164 centrifuges apiece.


Iran's chief nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani signalled that
Tehran was in no mood to suspend uranium enrichment, a sensitive
process that can be used both in making nuclear fuel and atomic
bombs.


"We are ready to negotiate and reach an understanding with
Western countries in order to allay their worries, but not to
close down our scientific programme," he said according to the
Mehr news agency.


The nuclear day marks the first anniversary of Iran's production
of uranium sufficiently enriched to make nuclear fuel, and was
being marked by a string of events at key installations across
the country.


State-run bus and metro travel in Tehran were made free for the
day in celebration, and bells at Iranian schools rang out in
unison at 9 am local time, state television reported.


The government sent out text messages to Iranians to congratulate
them over the nuclear celebrations, the ISNA news agency
reported.


A human chain of 15,000 members of Iran's volunteer Basij militia
was to surround another key nuclear facility outside the central
city of Isfahan, and a similar event was to be held at the heavy
water plant in Arak.


More than 100 people gathered outside Iran's atomic energy agency
organisation headquarters in Tehran, burning the US and British
flags. "Nuclear energy will flow like blood through every minute
vein of Iran," read one placard.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two packages of
sanctions against Iran over its failure to heed ultimatums from
the world body to suspend uranium enrichment.


Last April Iran announced it had succeeded in enriching uranium
to 3.5 percent, good enough for nuclear fuel but still well off
the 90 percent levels required to make an atomic weapon.


Larijani also reiterated previous warnings that continued Western
pressure on its nuclear programme could affect Iran's cooperation
over its commitments under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
(NPT).


"If they want to take the path of tension they should know they
will be faced with Iran's serious reaction, and the continuation
of this policy would challenge the NPT," he said.

