

China on Monday officially appointed Donald Tsang as Hong Kong's
chief executive for a second term following last month's election
that saw the territory's first leadership contest under Chinese
rule.


Tsang received the formal "book of appointment" at a ceremony
held at the Zhongnanhai compound for China's leaders in Beijing,
according to the official Xinhua news agency.


At the appointment ceremony, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao expressed
his approval of Tsang's policies that focus "on improving
people's living standards, pursuing social harmony and promoting
democracy," Xinhua said.


Later, at an afternoon meeting with President Hu Jintao, Tsang
was promised the backing of Beijing in carrying out his re-
selection manifesto promises.


"You have to work hard to accomplish things in Hong Kong," Hu
said. "The central government will support Hong Kong."


Afterwards, Tsang told media that he would resolve the question
of universal suffrage for Hong Kong during his new term as chief
executive.


He admitted he had been moved by Monday's events and vowed to
make Hong Kong a better place over his next five years as chief
executive.


"I have mixed emotions inside my mind, thinking about the 10
years since the handover, we have gone through a lot in Hong
Kong," he told Hu at their meeting.


"Today I carry the hopes of the people of Hong Kong. I will work
harder to get over the difficulties and make Hong Kong a more
prosperous place."


When asked by reporters about Hong Kong's progress towards
universal suffrage, Tsang replied: "My pledge had been in the
manifesto during the election that I would resolve completely the
question of universal suffrage elections for the Chief Executive
and the legislature.


"That proposal, that pledge, is fully supported by the president
and the premier."


The former British colony that was returned to China in 1997
exists as a largely autonomous capitalist territory within the
authoritarian Chinese state under a "one country, two systems"
arrangement.


Hong Kong's leaders are elected by a committee of 800 elites who
are mostly loyal to China's communist rulers in Beijing.


Tsang won the most recent vote in March, easily beating lawmaker
Alan Leong in the first contested leadership race since 1997.


He has promised to begin moves to transform the political
landscape in Hong Kong, introducing more democracy in accordance
with the Basic Law constitution that came into force at the
handover.


Leong is a leading light in a reformist movement that has for the
past decade campaigned for the swift introduction of democracy,
while the China-backed government has been accused of halting the
process.


In comments released last week, Wen endorsed the democratic
credentials of the March ballot.


"The election, conforming to the principle of openness, fairness
and justice, fully tallied with the Basic Law and other relevant
laws," Wen said.


Tsang was first appointed chief executive in 2005, when he took
over the truncated second term of the wealthy southern Chinese
territory's first post- colonial leader Tung Chee-hwa, who
resigned early due to poor health.


Although Tsang, a devout Catholic, was not elected by the people
of Hong Kong, he retains huge public support following his 40
years as a civil servant, including stints as financial secretary
and deputy leader.

