

The US government Monday announced major WTO complaints over
copyright piracy in China and the booming country's barriers to
foreign music, films and books.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab said the complaints, which
demand consultations with China at the Geneva-based World Trade
Organization, would be lodged on Tuesday.


"Piracy and counterfeiting levels in China remain unacceptably
high," she said in a statement.


"Inadequate protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) in
China costs US firms and workers billions of dollars each year,
and in the case of many products, it also poses a serious risk of
harm to consumers in China, the United States and around the
world."


The complaint over barriers to foreign media alleges that Chinese
distribution rules "hobble" cultural products, such as books and
Hollywood movies, from reaching the vast audience of the world's
most populous nation.


Schwab added: "These products are favorite targets for IPR
pirates, and the legal obstacles standing between these
legitimate products and the consumers in China give IPR pirates
the upper hand in the Chinese market."


Under the WTO process, the two countries will have 60 days to try
to iron out their differences. If they do not reach agreement,
the United States will then have the right to demand WTO
arbitration.


If the US case were ultimately upheld by a WTO dispute settlement
panel, the United States could then gain the right to impose
retaliatory duties and tariffs on Chinese imports.


On the IPR front, the administration said that copyright pirates
in China too often enjoy "a safe harbor to avoid criminal
liability."


Under Chinese law, it said, thresholds to launch criminal
prosecutions against wholesalers and retailers of fake goods
remain too high.


China last Friday tightened its rules on intellectual property
theft, lowering the threshold for "serious offenders" who will
face up to seven years in jail, state media said.


Anyone who produces more than 2,500 disks of movies, music or
computer software is now regarded as a serious offender, down
from the previous cut-off level of 5,000 disks, the China Daily
reported.


The US government welcomed that move. "However, wholesalers and
distributors still will be able to operate below high thresholds
without fear of criminal liability.


"These thresholds appear to effectively permit large-scale piracy
and counterfeiting."


The US action also complained that fake goods, if seized by
Chinese customs authorities, too easily end up on the black
market "when WTO rules dictate that these goods normally should
be kept out of the marketplace altogether."


And it argued that while awaiting approval by Chinese censors,
foreign media works are routinely faked with no right of redress
for the rights holders.

