

Attacks on Britain's Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the 15 sailors
held by Iran for nearly two weeks last month mounted Monday after
some of the detainees sold their stories to the media.


Even one of the officers in charge of the seized naval personnel
said he found the situation "a little unsavoury" as some of the
freed sailors began recounting their grim ordeals for large
payments.


Opposition politicians accused the Labour Party government of
hitting a new propaganda low as a media debate raged as to
whether the sailors and marines should have been allowed to
speak.


The MoD made the unusual decision Sunday to permit the 15 to
strike financial deals with media organisations, saying there
were "exceptional circumstances" and the stories would otherwise
have come out anyway without its control.


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) in total, with the sole
woman among them standing to net around 100,000 pounds.


Royal Navy Leading Seaman Faye Turney, a 26-year-old mother of
one, was paid for an interview in The Sun newspaper, and another
with commercial broadcaster ITV to be aired later Monday, though
the amounts she received were not specified.


In the ITV interview, Turney commented that she had been "offered
a hell of a lot of money for my story" and that she had not taken
"the biggest offer."


"I want everyone out there to know my story from my side, see
what I went through," she said.


Amid rising criticism, the MoD said: "It was clear that the
stories they had to tell were likely to have emerged via family
and friends regardless of any decision the (Royal) Navy took."


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman said he and Royal Marines
Captain Chris Air, the two officers in the group, were not
accepting money for their stories.


"I personally find the subject (of payment) a bit unsavoury, but
I don't begrudge people who have been through an awful ordeal
making a bit of money out of this," Carman told GMTV television.


"In the case of Faye Turney, she has a young daughter and the
money could set her up for life."


Carman told BBC television that somebody would inevitably profit
and rather than friends or distant relatives inventing "any old
rubbish", "why should they profit when people have actually been
through quite an ordeal?"


Tellingly, Kelvin MacKenzie, the editor of The Sun tabloid during
its 1980s sensationalist heyday, said he would not have chased
the sailors' stories and accused government "idiots" of making a
"catastrophic error."


"Curiously enough I don't think I'd touch it with a barge pole,"
he told BBC radio.


"My sense is that the government... are very concerned that they
have lost the propaganda battle with Iran and these 15 are simply
pawns in this battle."


Lord Michael Heseltine, a former British defence secretary and
deputy prime minister, said he had "never heard anything so
appalling" as ordinary troops earning little money while those
captured earned a small fortune.


Turney, who became the public face of the crisis, spoke of how
she feared rape and execution, was stripped to her knickers, lied
to about the other detainees and was told she might never see her
three-year-old daughter again.


Arthur Batchelor, 20, the youngest of the group, told the Daily
Mirror newspaper of how he was similarly stripped, and an
interrogator indicated that if he did not co-operate, he would
not see his family. It was unclear if he was paid for his
interview.


The eight sailors and seven marines were captured on March 23.
Britain maintains they were in Iraqi waters carying out anti-
smuggling operations under a United Nations mandate. Iran insists
they were in their waters.


The sailors were freed and flew home Thursday.


Sally Veck, whose daughter Eleanor Dlugosz, 19, was among four
Britons killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq last week, told The
Times newspaper it was a "terrible shame" that some of the freed
captives had sold their tales.


"If you are a member of the military ... you should do your duty
and not expect to make money by selling stories," she said.


The Independent newspaper lamented "a system which pays next to
nothing in compensation when someone is killed in the line of
duty, but allows released captives to earn many times their
annual salary from their experience."


The Daily Telegraph said that "giving permission for this media
circus falls way below the standards we should expect from the
MoD."


"Relations of members of the armed services killed in Iraq, who
would not dream of selling their stories, feel particularly
strongly on this subject. And who can blame them?"

