

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced on Monday that Iran is
now producing enriched uranium at an industrial scale, risking a
deepening of the crisis with world powers over its nuclear drive.


Although Ahmadinejad steered clear of disclosing any figures, his
speech at Iran's most sensitive nuclear plant signaled that
Tehran's atomic programme has stepped up a gear in defiance of UN
Security Council sanctions.


The United States, which accuses Tehran of seeking nuclear
weapons and has not ruled out the option of military action to
bring Iran to heel, said it was "very concerned" by the
announcement.


"Today... this country has joined the countries that produce
nuclear fuel on an industrial scale," Ahmadinejad said at the
uranium enrichment plant in the central town of Natanz in a
speech to mark a national nuclear technology day.


Iran's atomic energy organisation chief Gholam Reza Aghazadeh
said the country had started mass production of the centrifuges,
which are set up in long cascades to enrich the uranium from a
gas feedstock.


"Today, with the start of mass-producing centrifuges and the
start of uranium enrichment on an industrial phase, another step
was taken for the flourishing of the Islamic republic," Aghazadeh
said.


Enrichment of uranium is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West as the process can produce nuclear fuel
but in highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an
atomic bomb.


Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely aimed at generating
energy.


Iran's long held target has been to have 3,000 centrifuges
working at the plant and the announcements indicate it has now
well exceeded the two cascades of 164 centrifuges it had declared
until now.


The vice president of Iran's atomic energy organisation, Mohammad
Saeedi, said Iran would not disclose the number of centrifuges
that it has put in place at the plant.


"The number of centrifuges at the moment is clear but we do not
want to announce how many," Saeedi said, telling reporters to
wait for the UN nuclear watchdog to release the information.


In Vienna, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) declined
to comment on the news coming out of Iran and said its inspectors
would report to the agency's board of governors at their next
meeting which starts on June 11.


Days after he announced the release of 15 British sailors to end
a potentially dangerous standoff with London, Ahmadinejad vowed
Iran would not allow world powers to "put obstacles" in the path
of its nuclear programme.


"They should know that our nation with awareness and faith has
stood by its leadership and will defend its rights to the end,"
he added.


The United States lost little time in expressing its growing
frustration with Iran.


"We are very concerned about Iran's announcement that they
entered an 'industrial stage' of nuclear fuel production,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


"It's a missed opportunity," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said of Ahmadinejad's speech, adding that its actions
proved that UN sanctions were justified against Iran.


In an indication of further tensions ahead, lead nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani warned that Iran would quit the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty if international pressure on its
enrichment programme continued.


"If they pressure us further, we will have no choice but to
reconsider our membership of the NPT," thus reducing cooperation
with the IAEA which conducts inspections of atomic plants under
the treaty, Larijani said.


The atomic technology day marks the first anniversary of Iran's
production of uranium sufficiently enriched to make nuclear fuel,
and was being marked by a string of events at key installations
across the country.


State-run bus and metro travel in Tehran were made free for the
day in celebration, and bells at Iranian schools rang out in
unison at 9 am local time, state television reported.


The day was held to mark Iran's announcement last April that it
had succeeded in enriching uranium to 3.5 percent, good enough
for nuclear fuel but still well off the 90 percent plus levels
required to make an atomic weapon.

