

Police were out in strength in New Delhi Monday to enforce a ban
on smoking by motorists as part of a crackdown to restore order
on the Indian capital's chaotic roads, officials said.


A raft of other penalties were also enforced in line with a March
26 Delhi High Court order which aims at disciplining motorists in
New Delhi.


Some 14 million people and four million vehicles jostle for space
on the city's clogged roads, despite two million commuters using
the metro every day in the national capital.


"We collected 1.7 million rupees (37,000 dollars) in fines from
errant drivers within eight hours of launching the campaign at
6:00 am (0030 GMT)," a traffic police department spokesman said.


Motorists caught smoking while driving coughed up 32 dollars --
hefty by Asian standards. They also received stern warnings that
offenders cited more than five times would have their licences
revoked.


Police said similar fines applied to motorists talking on
cellular phones while driving, as well as for other less-defined
offences bunched under the term "dangerous driving."


The Delhi High Court last month jacked up the fine for speeding
by almost 400 percent at 2,500 rupees (55 dollars) and pegged
penalties for drunken driving at 900 rupees, up from the previous
500 rupees.


"The police were out on the streets in strength at 6:00 am and
this will continue," said H.P.S. Virk, deputy traffic police
commissioner.


City traffic police chief Qamar Ahmed said his department would
also enforce the directives to ensure safe driving which came
into effect Monday in Delhi, where most measures in the past have
failed to yield visible results.


"We also enforced proper lane driving and fined motorists using
pressure (shriek) horns," Ahmed said of privately-run commuter
buses blamed for most of New Delhi's worsening traffic woes.


A total of 1,910 people died and 7,970 more were injured in 8,838
accidents on New Delhi streets last year.


In 2006, traffic light violations jumped 6.48 percent while
instances of motorists caught talking on mobile telephones rose
103 percent over the previous year.


At least 4.1 million motorists were penalised last year for
various traffic- related offences.

