

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz insisted Monday his
commitment to staff rules in his first public intervention into a
raging controversy over massive pay raises given to his
girlfriend.


Shaha Riza was pulled off her job as a communications officer at
the World Bank and seconded to the US State Department in
September 2005, shortly after Wolfowitz took over at the helm of
the powerful development lender.


The move was made at the reported insistence of the World Bank's
board of governors, to abide by bank rules that forbid members of
staff who are romantically linked from working under each other.


According to reports in the Washington Post and the Financial
Times, Wolfowitz had initially resisted the arrangement, arguing
that Riza's career prospects would be harmed.


But the Libyan-born aide was then rapidly promoted and ended up
earning nearly 200,000 dollars at the State Department, more than
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice herself, sparking an outcry
among World Bank staff.


"I would like to assure the staff that I have always acted to
uphold these rules to the best of my ability, and I will continue
to do so," Wolfowitz said in a statement to World Bank employees.


"As president of this institution, I accept full responsibility
for the actions taken in this case," he said.


The board on Thursday ordered an investigation into a "possible
violation of staff rules in favor of a staff member closely
associated with the president."


"I have already indicated to the board my intention to cooperate
fully in their review of the details of the case," Wolfowitz
stressed.


"What remains of the utmost importance to me is the protection of
the interests of this institution as a whole, and our need to
remain focused on our agenda of helping the world's poor."


A circular last Tuesday from the World Bank's internal staff
association said it had been "inundated with messages from staff
expressing concern, dismay and outrage" over the Riza case.


Staff have highlighted apparent discrepancies between accounts of
her employment given by Wolfowitz and members of the World Bank's
board and ethics committee.


According to the Washington-based Government Accountability
Project (GAP), neither the committee nor the board approved
Riza's hefty pay hikes as claimed by Wolfowitz's office.


The row risks undermining Wolfowitz at a time when he is leading
a controversial campaign to clean up corruption in the World
Bank's multibillion-dollar lending.


The campaign will again be under the spotlight when the bank, in
conjunction with the International Monetary Fund, holds its
annual spring meeting this weekend.


"It's ironic that Mr. Wolfowitz lectures developing countries
about good governance and fighting corruption, while winking at
an irregular promotion and overly generous pay increases to a
partner," said Bea Edwards, the GAP's international director.

