

More than 60 Shiite militants have been killed or captured in
deadly battle with Iraqi and US forces in the central city of
Diwaniyah, military officials said on Monday.


Since Friday, around 3,300 US and Iraqi troops have clashed with
Shiite militants, largely believed to be from the Mahdi Army
militia controlled by firebrand cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, in
Diwaniyah, south of Baghdad.


Polish Major General Pawel Lamla, a commanding general for US-led
multinational forces, told a group of reporters in Diwaniyah that
security forces had "killed or captured more than 60 of the
terrorists."


US commander Colonel Michael Garrett said the fighters appeared
to be from the Jaish al-Mahdi, the Arabic name for Mahdi Army.


"We believe they are associated with the Jaish al-Mahdi," Garrett
said.


"I don't know enough to know if this is a splinter group or how
committed they are to Jaish al-Mahdi. But it doesn't necessarily
appear to be a splinter group. It appears to be an organised
resistance."


Since fighting broke out between the militiamen and security
forces on Friday, the US military said it was an operation aimed
at returning control of Diwaniyah to the Iraqi government.


In the past year, Diwaniyah has turned into a battlefied for
rival Shiite militias fighting for supremacy.


Garrett suggested the operation was reasonably successful.


"I guess from zero to a hundred percent in terms of results of
our operation. Today, I will put us at about the 60 to 70 percent
range in terms of the targets that we had available to us," he
said.


Iraqi commander Major General Othman Ali Farhood said many of the
detainees were found holding multiple identification cards.


"Some were found carrying many identifications, nine or 10
identification cards or passports," Farhood said, adding that one
of the detainees could also be a Palestinian.


But he explained that many Iraqis carried "two identification
cards in two provinces and also carry three or four
identifications from different ministries", for their own
protection from sectarian death squads.


Garrett said all the detainees were Iraqis and mostly from
Diwaniyah but there "are accusations that some are from outside
the province."


Lamla said that Operation Black Eagle launched in Diwaniyah was
an extension of the broader Baghdad security plan that has been
underway in the capital since February.


"The security of one state directly affects the security in
others," he said.


"The new security plan began in Baghdad but it is a national
plan. It will be implemented in Iraq as you can see from the
progress being made here."


Lamla also indicated that some of the fighters in Diwaniyah were
from Baghdad.


Since the start of the Baghdad crackdown, US and Iraqi military
officials say Mahdi Army fighters have melted away in other
provinces following orders from Sadr himself.

