

Newcastle further loosened Arsenal's grip on Champions League
qualification after holding Arsene Wenger's side to an
uninspiring 0-0 draw on Monday.


Arsenal almost snatched the points when they had two late shots
blocked on the goal-line by Nolberto Solano. But Newcastle more
than deserved a share of the spoils as the Gunners became the
latest top four team to miss out on maximum points at St James'
Park this season.


Wenger's misfiring fourth-placed team are in for a nervous end to
the season as they remain only two points ahead of Bolton, who
they face in a crucial match at the Emirates Stadium on Saturday.


Arsenal had not lost four successive league games since 1995 but
after three back-to-back Premiership defeats they were facing
their worst run of form for 12 years.


But Newcastle were without inspirational captain Scott Parker
after the England international suffered an ankle injury against
Sheffield United at the weekend.


Turkish midfielder Emre replaced the former Chelsea playmaker as
he took the latest step towards rebuilding a career blighted by
unproven allegations that he racially abused opponents earlier
this season.


The ex-Fenerbahce favourite has insisted he wants to stay with
United beyond the summer but Bundesliga giants Bayrn Munich head
the list of continental clubs ready to test Newcastle with a five
million pounds (9.8 million dollars) offer.


Arsenal's recent run of poor form has coincided with the absence
of star striker Thierry Henry and fellow forwards Robin van
Persie and Theo Walcott.


Wenger attempted to freshen things up in attack by playing former
Auxerre midfielder Abou Diaby just off lone frontman Emmanuel
Adebayor with his resources stretched to the limit.


However, it was Newcastle who looked the livelier of the two
teams going forward in the first half and Arsenal's German
international goalkeeper Jens Lehmann had to be at his best to
repel an Oguchi Onyewu snapshot after Emre's free kick had struck
a team-mate.


At the opposite end United suffered an unexpected blow when
Republic of Ireland international goalkeeper Shay Given was
forced to leave the field with a knee injury after just 26
minutes to be replaced by long-serving understudy Steve Harper.


The change appeared to unsettle the hosts and within four minutes
Diaby capitalised on a communication breakdown between Irishmen
Stephen Carr and Damien Duff to race clear. The Frenchman saw his
cross deflected by the retreating Steven Taylor and Harper had to
be at his alert best to tip the loose ball over the bar.


Duff wasted two close-range opportunities in the space of a
minute before the break as Newcastle briefly regained their
stride. And James Milner struck Lehmann's crossbar seconds after
the restart as United sought to banish the memories of their
previous St James's Park encounter, a dour 1-0 defeat at the
hands of struggling Manchester City.


Wenger introduced strike duo Julio Baptista and Jeremie Aliadiere
midway through the first half in a belated attempt to take all
three points. But it was Baptista's fellow countryman, Gilberto,
who almost struck at the death only to see Solano perfectly
positioned.

