

England international defender  Ashley Cole promised that Chelsea
would not shirk from the challenge if Valencia play hard in order
to reach the Champions League semi-finals.


The two teams meet in their Champions League quarter-final second
leg on Tuesday with Valencia holding the advantage after the 1-1
draw at Stamford Bridge last Wednesday.


"We expect a physical hard game but they like to attack so I
think it'll be more of an attacking game than physical, but if it
is (physical) then we don't mind putting it about ourselves,"
threatened Cole at a press conference on Monday.


Valencia captain David Albelda and the Spanish team's coach
Quique Flores had both said earlier on Monday that they expect
the match to be a full-blooded affair in every sense.


Cole admitted that, with Valencia having a crucial away goal to
their credit, Chelsea cannot afford to get distracted and
embroiled in a kicking contest.


"We have the players that can score goals and we are confident
that we can win. We have to score two goals so the main thing is
to attack.


"It takes a lot of guts and determination to get to this point
and hopefully we can have a good game and go forward to the semi-
finals.


"I was in the Champions League final last year (with Arsenal) and
hopefully this can be my year to pick it up," added Cole.


Cole refuted suggestions that he and his team mates were playing
for coach Jose Mourinho's future at Chelsea.


There has been a widely reported rift between Mourinho and the
club's billionaire Russian owner Ramon Abramovich.


Abramovich has made no secret of the fact that he wants Chelsea
to win the Champions League, the ultimate prize in European club
football, after reaching the semi-finals twice since he bought
control of the club in 2003.


Rumours have been rife in the Spanish and English media that Real
Madrid have lined him up to take over as their coach next summer,
although Mourinho has always publicly pledged his loyalty to
Chelsea.


"I don't know about playing for his future. I don't think it's
down to the players. We all love him here and he's done a great
job but I'm just a player," added Cole.


Cole's backing of Mourinho, in similar fashion to that given by
other players, gives credence to the suggestion that if Mourinho
was to leave Stamford Bridge in the summer then some of the squad
would follow him.

