

New York on Monday became the latest US state to bring forward
its 2008 presidential primary elections, joining nine other
states in a vote on "Super Duper Tuesday" next February 5.


The move is aimed at giving the state more influence in choosing
which candidates will run in the election -- a process that has
traditionally been dominated by the states of New Hampshire and
Iowa.


The change, which was approved by the State Senate and Assembly
and signed into law by Governor Eliot Spitzer on Monday, means
New York now will hold its primary one month earlier than usual.


"Moving the primary date to February, we will help secure New
York's large and diverse population an influential voice in
selecting the 2008 presidential nominees," Spitzer said in a
statement.


California last month decided to bring forward its primary to the
March 5 prompting a stampede of states seeking to do the same, in
a move seen likely to fundamentally alter the dynamics of the
race for the White House.


Tuesday is the traditional balloting day in the United States and
in the past votes occasionally have been held on "Super
Tuesdays," when two or more states have held primary elections.


But the unprecedented number of simultaneous primary elections
scheduled for February 5th have prompted political scientists to
dub that day's balloting "Super Duper Tuesday."


Pundits said it is not surprising that so many states are rushing
to move up their voting dates.


"There's an advantage to going early because the presidential
campaign, particularly the nominations, are influenced by the
early voting," Steve Brams, professor of politics at New York
University, recently explained.


"That is why New Hampshire and Iowa, the first states in the
nation to have a caucus and a primary, have prized their role for
many years," he told AFP.


"Statistically it has been shown that the results in these early
caucus and primary states will influence later states, so there's
kind of a momentum on the part of states to be early and to exert
that kind of influence."


According to the National Association of Secretaries of State, 14
other states are also mulling February 5 for their primaries or
caucuses, creating what Brams described as a "crowding effect."


"The paradox here is that if half the states go right after New
Hampshire and Iowa, then none of them will be influential by
itself," he said.


"It becomes in effect one election and not the extended primary
process we've seen in the past," he explained.


He added that the shift would favor well-known candidates and
pose a bigger hurdle to those from smaller states.


The caucuses and primary elections are due to kick off January 14
in Iowa, more than nine months before the presidential election
itself on November 4, 2008.

