

The Italian government Monday rejected new opposition criticism
of its handling of the kidnapping of an Italian journalist in
Afghanistan following the reported execution of his Afghan
colleague.


"In the face of the absurd speculation and political
exploitation" of the case of reporter Daniele Mastrogiacomo, the
government repeated that negotiations for his freedom were
"conducted correctly" and "in close agreement with the Afghan
government."


Afghan Taliban rebels claimed Sunday that freelance reporter
Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was acting as Mastrogiacomo's interpreter,
had been executed because the Afghan authorities refused to
negotiate over their demands for the release of two Taliban
militants.


La Repubblica correspondent Mastrogiacomo was held captive for
two weeks last month and his Afghan driver was beheaded. He was
released in a swap of five Taliban prisoners that angered many
Afghans and prompted the United States and other countries to
condemn negotiations with "terrorists".


Rome said Monday that "attempted provocations unequalled in
Italian history" were complicating efforts to secure the release
of (aid worker) Rahmatullah Hanefi, arrested on suspicion of
involvement in the Italian's abduction.


Hanefi, who works for a hospital in southern Afghanistan
belonging to the Italian humanitarian organisation Emergency,
served as intermediary in negotiations to free Mastrogiacomo and
is being held by the Afghan authorities.


Prime Minister Romano Prodi faces new criticism of his foreign
policy after the reported beheading of Naqshbandi.


"The execution of Mastrogiacomo's interpreter is a terrible
responsibility for the Prodi government," said lawmaker Isabella
Berolini of former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's right-wing
Forza Italia party.


"It casts light on the cynicism of Prodi, of (Foreign Minister
Massimo) D'Alema and company," she said.


Earlier, Prodi said he "learned with anguish the news of the
murder of the interpreter that followed that of the
(correspondent's) driver."


Speaking to ANSA, he added: "We strongly condemn this absurd
crime."


Prodi's fragile centre-left coalition survived a key test on
March 27 over the highly sensitive issue of funding for Italy's
2,000-strong contingent in the NATO International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan.


Only a month earlier, a similar vote sparked a major political
crisis in which Prodi resigned before being reinstated and
surviving confidence votes in both houses of parliament.


The centre-left has only a two-vote advantage in the 315-seat
Senate, and the far left flank of the coalition opposes Italy's
foreign military operations, particularly in Afghanistan.

