

Four years after the fall of Saddam Hussein, it remains uncertain
whether a new US strategy can bring peace and stability to Iraq,
despite army assertions that the situation is improving.


"I think we'll just have to wait several more months before we're
in a position to make any real evaluations," Defense Secretary
Robert Gates said last week.


"As we have indicated, the early signs are positive," he said,
but added "it's a tough environment" refusing to be overly
optimistic, something for which his predecessor Donald Rumsfeld
was soundly criticized.


Amid a wave of unchecked sectarian violence in Iraq, President
George W. Bush announced in January that he was sending in an
extra 25,000 troops to quell the unrest in Baghdad and Anbar
province.


"The intent is to create the climate so that the political
leadership (in Iraq) can, in fact, reconcile their differences
and bring back the unity of this country ... so that Iraqis can
all move forward together," US military spokesman in Baghdad
William Caldwell told CNN on Monday.


And he was upbeat on the results of the troop surge, saying the
violence had indeed dropped in past weeks.


"I was just down in Baghdad two days ago, walking through the
city, and I can tell the difference from two months ago to today
in terms of the environment," he said.


"You can just sense and feel there is a difference amongst the
people and how they see things."


"I mean, we still have challenges. I don't want to minimize that
at all. And there's still a long ways to go and there are still
threats out there, but the people are moving on with their lives
and they're seeing hope for the first time."


On a scale of one to 10, with 10 being the best possible
situation in security terms, Baghdad had risen from four or 5 two
months ago to six or seven today, Caldwell said.


But his assessment is unlikely to win over a skeptical US public,
weary of the war in which more than 3,200 US troops have died
since the March 2003 invasion.


US presidential candidate John McCain, who earlier this month
toured a Baghdad market and insisted things were improving, on
Sunday defended his  optimistic stand.


"I went to Iraq to gain a first hand view of the progress in this
difficult war, not to celebrate any victories. No one has been
more critical of sunny progress reports that defied realities in
Iraq," he wrote in the Washington Post.


"We held a news conference to discuss what we saw: positive
signs, underreported in the United States, that are reason for
cautious optimism."


But Bush's surge strategy remains unpopular at home, where he is
locked in a showdown with US lawmakers who have sought to tie
funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to a timetable for
withdrawing from Iraq.


US military spokesman Rear Admiral Mark Fox admitted in Baghdad,
where four years ago on Monday a giant statue of Saddam was torn
down, that the past years had been "disappointing, frustrating
and increasingly dangerous in many parts of Iraq."


Marking the anniversary, hundreds of thousands of Shiites
protested in the city of Najaf at an anti-American rally called
by firebrand cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


Shouting "No, No to America! Yes, Yes to Freedom!," the crowds
burned and stamped on US flags.


The White House however downplayed the anti-US rallies, saying
such demonstrations were a hopeful sign of freedom.


"While we have much more progress ahead of us -- the United
States, the coalition and Iraqis have much more to do -- this is
a country that has come a long way from the tyranny of Saddam
Hussein," said spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


"Iraq, four years on, is now a place where people can freely
gather and express their opinions. And that was something they
could not do under Saddam," he said.


Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman also said it was interesting to
note that there were some "peaceful demonstrations something that
would not have taken place four years ago."

