

US President George W. Bush faces a springtime of discontent,
with a former top strategist turned critic, his chief spokesman
sidelined with cancer, and top aides in Democratic lawmakers'
sights.


The war in Iraq still cripples his public support, and grumbling
about the unpopular conflict has grown louder among his
Republican allies even as Democrats push to set a timetable for
bringing US troops home.


His attorney general, Alberto Gonzales, and his top political
strategist, Karl Rove, are embroiled in a controversy over a mass
firing of federal prosecutors for what critics say were purely
political -- not judicial -- reasons.


While the 2008 election to succeed Bush looms large, these are
not just the second-term doldrums that affect so many US
presidents, advisers acknowledge privately.


The White House, where loyalty to Bush is a paramount virtue,
reeled recently when a long-time campaign strategist who helped
secure his 2000 and 2004 election victories, Matthew Dowd, became
the first member of the president's inner circle to break with
him publicly on Iraq.


Dowd, who has a son in the US Army, told news outlets that he had
become disenchanted with Bush and that it was time to heed the
public's clamor for withdrawal.


"We should admit that it's a mess there and we need to get our
soldiers home and the loss of blood is not going to accomplish
anything," Dowd told National Public Radio.


In response, Bush said his former aide was gripped by "anguish"
and was understandably "emotional" about the war because of his
son but said as president he was required to "take a sober look"
at winning the war.


Shortly thereafter, the White House announced that Bush's top
day-to-day adviser on Iraq and Afghanistan, Meghan O'Sullivan,
was leaving sometime in the coming months.


O'Sullivan, 37, said in her resignation letter that she felt
confident that the security crackdown in Bagdhad and restive Al-
Anbar province would bear fruit -- but other advisers say the
mood inside the White House is much tenser.


One reason is the pitched battle with Democrats who control the
US Congress for the first time since Bush took office, and who
have tied emergency war funds to a timetable that could require
US troops to leave Iraq in 2008.


Bush has vowed to veto such legislation, and while Democrats lack
the votes to override it they have not backed down on that front
or in other battles with the White House, such as the prosecutor
purge.


That controversy, and signs that some of Gonzales' aides misled
Congress, has drawn fire from Democrats, and most recently,
senior Republican Newt Gringrich. The embattled attorney general
is expected to testify on April 17.


Democrats have also pushed -- unsuccessfully so far -- for Rove
to submit to formal questioning, but the White House has said he
will only talk behind closed doors and with no recording or
transcript.


All of this has come shortly after Vice President Dick Cheney's
former chief of staff was convicted of perjury and obstruction of
justice in a case stemming from the leak of a CIA operative's
identity after her diplomat husband assailed the administration
for war in Iraq.


And the White House must deal with all of these headaches without
one of its public relations big guns: press secretary Tony Snow
has been sidelined indefinitely while he battles cancer.


Snow, 51, survived a bout with colon cancer in 2005 but was
diagnosed last month with a recurrence and had surgery to remove
a growth in his abdomen.

