

Canada on Monday was counting the cost of its military presence
in Afghanistan after suffering its heaviest troop loss in 50
years, on the day it marked the anniversary of a key World War I
victory.


The deaths of six Canadian NATO soldiers killed Sunday by a
roadside bomb in southern Afghanistan dominated the country's
front pages, with the French- language Journal de Montreal
calling it a "Bloody Easter."


It was the heaviest single day loss sustained by Canadian forces
since May 1953 during the Korea War.


Foreign Minister Peter MacKay said Monday on CTV television that
the deaths were "a very serious reminder of the cost of freedom
and the cost of these conflicts."


Comparing the conflict to a World War I battle won by the
Canadians in Vimy, France, MacKay said the sacrifice "highlights
exactly what it means to be at war and what it means to be
protecting people in Afghanistan as we did in France and parts of
Europe over 90 years ago."


A total of 51 Canadian soldiers have now died in Afghanistan
where Canada has deployed some 2,500 soldiers in the south of the
country in the past five years as part of the NATO operation to
quell a Taliban insurgency.


The English-language press also drew parallels between Canada's
mission in Afghanistan alongside NATO troops and the battle of
Vimy.


"The Vimy anniversary is an opportune time to put our Afghanistan
losses in context," said the conservative daily The National
Post.


"In the five years since our military deployed to Afghanistan, 51
of our soldiers have been killed, along with one diplomat -- less
than one thousandth of the 66,655 soldiers we lost in World War
I."


The battle of Vimy Ridge was a costly victory for Canada, but one
that helped shape the former British colony's national identity.


At 5:30 am on April 9, 1917, almost 100,000 Canadian soldiers
charged the ridge, which the German army had fortified heavily
with trenches, barbed wire, artillery and machine-gun nests.


A total of 3,598 Canadian troops were killed and 7,004 were
wounded over four days of fighting as they slowly took control of
the escarpment, which lies near the town of Arras in northern
France.


Sunday's bombing was the deadliest single attack on NATO forces
in the country this year, the alliance said in a statement.


And it is likely to raise new questions about the duration of
Canada's participation in the NATO mission in Afghanistan.


The three opposition parties, who together hold a majority in
Parliament, are against prolonging the mission beyond its
mandate, which ends in February 2009.


They have argued there should be a greater balance between the
mission's military and humanitarian roles.


The ruling conservative government of Prime Minister Stephen
Harper extended the mission's mandate for two years in 2006, but
did not rule out that it could be extended beyond February 2009.


The decision is likely to hang on the outcome of national
elections, with Harper hoping to win greater support in Quebec
and be returned with a majority government. However, opposition
to Canada's participation in Afghanistan is at its highest in the
French-speaking province.

