

China urged Sudan on Monday to be more flexible on a plan put
forward by former UN chief Kofi Annan to bolster peacekeeping
operations in the war-torn western region of Darfur.


Beijing's rare prod to its top African ally came as the plan was
being discussed in Addis Ababa and two days ahead of a visit to
Sudan and neighbouring countries by US Deputy Secretary of State
John Negroponte.


"China appreciates Sudan's efforts in restoring peace in Darfur,
but is expecting more flexibility on the Annan plan," Chinese
envoy Zhai Jun told reporters in Khartoum.


Annan last year floated a plan for the United Nations to prop up
the embattled African Union peacekeeping force in Darfur, but
Khartoum has stalled, arguing that it would amount to the
deployment of Western troops on its soil.


"There is no fundamental contradiction between Sudanese fears and
the Annan plan," the Chinese foreign ministry official said as he
wrapped up a three-day visit to Sudan.


The international community has urged China to start using its
economic leverage to put pressure on Khartoum over Darfur, where
four years of US-backed diplomacy have failed to stem the
bloodshed.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and more than two million displaced in Darfur since
the fighting erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.


China is the leading foreign investor in Sudan, absorbs almost
two thirds of its oil output and has repeatedly shielded Khartoum
from UN sanctions.


Implementation of the Annan plan has already started but
differences have emerged over the third and final phase, which is
supposed to lead to a joint -- or "hybrid" -- peacekeeping force
grouping AU and UN troops.


"We hope our Sudanese friends will accept this plan. The name of
the force, joint or hybrid, is not important," said Zhai.


His comments came as Sudanese, AU and UN officials were due to
meet in Addis Ababa on Monday to discuss the exact nature of UN
support for the 7,000-strong African contingent currently
deployed in Darfur.


Negroponte is expected to kick off a week-long mission to Sudan
and its neighbours on Wednesday in a bid to clinch Khartoum's
support for a more robust peacekeeping force in Darfur.


"Certainly he's going to encourage the Sudanese government to
give the green light to the AU-UN hybrid package, which is
fundamental to providing security and greater stability in
Darfur," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


As part of his tour, Negroponte will also visit Chad, Libya and
Mauritania.


Efforts are currently under way to revive a peace deal signed
between a rebel group and the government almost a year ago.


The Abuja agreement was endorsed by only one of three negotiating
rebel factions. Violence has since continued unabated, deepening
what is considered the world's worst unfolding humanitarian
crisis.


Earlier this month, the African Union suffered its deadliest
attack since it was deployed in 2004 when five soldiers were shot
dead by gunmen.


During his trip to Sudan, Zhai met President Omar al-Beshir and
visited several parts of Darfur.


"The situation seems quite stable in the areas I visited but
there are too many displaced people, which is a human tragedy,"
the Chinese official said.

