

Didier Drogba will end Tuesday's Championships League quarter-
fnal second leg a very tired man, promised Chelsea coach Jose
Mourinho at a press conference here Monday.


"I have to play him in every game. He's one of those players I
have to use in every game. I played him against Blackburn, I
played him against Tottenham, and I'll play him tomorrow,"
commented Mourinho about his Ivory Coast striker.


"So it's no rest for the boy. He's been fantastic all season."


Mourinho hopes that Drogba, who has scored 30 goals in all
competitions this season, will put his tiredness behind him and
salvage the tie.


Chelsea are the underdogs to progress to the semi-finals after
they were held to a 1-1 draw by Valencia at Stamford Bridge last
Wednesday.


"But he's much more than a goal scorer in my opinion. For
example, in the game against Tottenham on Saturday he didn't
score but his work rate was fantastic," added the Portuguese
coach of the reigning English Premiership champions.


"The game starts 0-0 and if the result at the end is 0-0 then
Valencia go through to the semi-finals, if the game ends 0-0 then
Chelsea go out. I think it's obvious, it will affect the way the
teams are going to play.


"I can't speak for Valencia but I can speak for us. We know this
is not a points game where you are involved in a group phase.
This game decides everything.


"This means we need a win and we need to score goals. Maybe one
goal is enough but we have to score goals," said Mourinho,
clearly pinning his hopes on Drogba to add to his tally.


Mourinho does not believe that Valencia's notoriously hostile
Mestalla crowd will unnerve his players.


"Pressure didn't kill anyone, pressure isn't the problem. Their
supporters are very vocal in support of their side but supporters
don't get goals. Or only one and that was at Liverpool," added
Mourinho, still bitter about Luis Garcia's disputed goal in the
Champions League semi-final at Anfield two seasons ago.


More importantly, Mourinho also hopes that events on the pitch
will not be overshadowed by what happens in the stands, with
approximately 5,000 Chelsea fans expected at the game.


"I hope the fans get on, that they have a beer together, but only
one. It is a chance for people of different cultures and
languages to get together.


"I hope Chelsea can be proud of their fans and that Valencia too
can contribute to a positive atmosphere just like there was at
Stamford Bridge where there were no problems whatsoever,"
commented Mourinho.


Mourinho's comments come in the wake of last week's incidents in
Rome and Seville where fans of Manchester United and Tottenham
Hotspur clashed with Italian and Spanish police.


Valencia's Mestalla stadium holds 55,000 spectators.


Disturbingly, after an apparent lack of segregation contributed
to last week's problems, touts outside the ground on Monday were
offering tickets in all sections of the ground without police or
club stewards intervening.

