

Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's salary will increase
to two million US dollars a year as part of pay rises for civil
servants announced on Monday.


The rises sparked anger in the city state amid a widening income
gap, and concerns that Lee and members of his cabinet are already
overpaid.


Teo Chee Hean, the minister in charge of the civil service, said
all of Singapore's civil service will also receive pay raises,
not just its ministers.


Teo, who is also defence minister, told parliament that after the
increase, Lee will receive an annual salary of 3.1 million
Singapore dollars (2.05 million US).


He did not say how much Lee is currently paid, but news reports
have said that in 2000, the Singapore prime minister was drawing
an annual salary of 1.9 million Singapore dollars.


Lee, son of Singapore founding father Lee Kuan Yew, took over as
prime minister from Goh Chok Tong in 2004.


Lee's revised salary would be five times more than the 400,000 US
dollars paid to US President George W. Bush and more than eight
times that of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who receives
240,000 US dollars a year.


Abe, who presides over the world's second biggest economy, had
slashed his own salary by 30 percent and those of his ministers
by 10 percent after taking office in September.


South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun is paid 217,000 US dollars a
year and Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has an annual salary of
167,371 US dollars.


"The prime minister's salary currently ranks 164 among (the
private sector's top) income earners. After the revision, the
prime minister's salary, at 3.1 million, will rank 102nd among
the private sector earners," Teo said.


The salaries of cabinet members will be raised in two stages this
year, Teo said and further in 2008, but did not say if the
premier's salary adjustment will also be done in phases.


Under a benchmark pegged to top private sector salaries,
Singapore ministers are supposed to be paid 2.2 million Singapore
dollars a year. However, they are actually getting 1.2 million
dollars, or 55 percent less.


To close the gap, Teo said the ministers' salaries will be raised
to 1.6 now and to 1.69 million dollars by the end of this year.
It will rise further to 1.9 million by the end of 2008.


Teo repeated the government's philosophy of paying competitive
rates in order to "facilitate the recruitment and retention of
the quality of talent we need for the government and public
sector."


But the increases sparked criticism from a normally reserved
public.


In a country where political rallies are banned without a permit
and the media is closely linked with the government, many of the
comments were posted on the Internet.


"This is plain injustice," said one identified as Zac Neo, who
was among more than 850 people to sign an online petition against
the increase.


"Middle class income has stagnated and dropped. And you think you
performed well enough to get (a) pay hike? Why don't you just go
get yourselves hired elsewhere," said one who identified himself
as Fred.


Political analyst Seah Chiang Nee said the rises have generated a
"lot of anger".


"I think the feeling is that the cabinet ministers are already
overpaid compared to the rest of the world," he told AFP.


Singapore founding father Lee told parliament Monday Singapore
"requires an extraordinary government" if the country is to
maintain its position as a top business hub.


"If you fail here, you go back to a Southeast Asian situation.
Just look around you," he said, referring to the politically
volatile region.


National University of Singapore political scientist Bilveer
Singh said paying ministers highly will prevent corruption.


"This is a very wealthy country. At the end of the day, people
will accept it but they (public servants) will have to deliver
well," he told AFP.

