

Fears mounted Monday for two French aid workers kidnapped by the
Taliban after the rebels beheaded an abducted Afghan journalist
and threatened to kill a local doctor.


The Taliban said it executed Afghan reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi,
who was kidnapped last month with an Italian journalist, Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, because the government failed to meet their demand
to free rebel prisoners.


La Repubblica correspondent Mastrogiacomo was freed after two
weeks in captivity in a controversial exchange for five Taliban
prisoners which was widely condemned. His Afghan driver was
beheaded.


"We killed Ajmal to show the public that (President Hamid) Karzai
doesn't care about Afghans," Taliban spokesman Shohaabuddin Atal
told AFP. "He freed five Taliban for a foreigner but not the two
Taliban we demanded for Ajmal."


The Taliban say they have been holding a French man and woman
along with three Afghans since abducting them in the southwestern
province of Nimroz last Tuesday. The guerrillas have not yet made
any demand for their release.


Atal said Taliban leaders will decide the fate of the French aid
workers from Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our Children) in
"coming days" as they are now done with Naqshbandi.


He stepped up the pressure by saying that the Taliban would kill
one of five Afghan medical workers who were abducted on March 27
in southern Kandahar province unless the government agrees to
talks.


"We'll kill one of the doctors if the government fails to enter
negotiations before April 15," Atal said. The fate of four other
medics will be decided later, he added.


A senior government official speaking on condition of anonymity
said he believed the Taliban killed Naqshbandi to pressure Karzai
into making another similar deal to free the French nationals.


"If you remember when the Taliban killed Mastrogiacomo's driver
the government freed Taliban prisoners to save the Italian. I
believe they killed Naqshbandi to scare us into accepting their
demands again," he told AFP.


"But I don't think the government is in a position to comply with
more such demands. It just can't do it," he said.


Karzai had described the prisoner exchange to free Mastrogiacomo
as an "extraordinary" situation and said he would not release any
more Taliban prisoners to save the Italian's Afghan colleague.


La Repubblica's editor in chief wrote Monday that the young
Afghan journalist's murder was a "barbaric, unjust killing, even
in a time of war."


Afghan Foreign Ministry spokesman Sultan Ahmad Baheen told AFP
the government will not make further deals with the Taliban,
although it was "worried for the French nationals".


"The government is determined to not make any further deals with
the terrorists. No more deals, with no one, for no one," Baheen
said.


Another Afghan official said the government was in a tight corner
over the French hostages, following widespread domestic criticism
of its failure to save a fellow Afghan while helping free the
Italian journalist.


"The government is obviously in a very difficult position -- if
the French ask for the same thing the Italians did, what would
the government say?" the official said, again asking not to be
named.


The fundamentalist Taliban movement were ousted by US-led forces
in late 2001 and have since led a increasingly bloody insurgency
targeting the Afghan government, international troops and aid
workers.

