

Watford manager Adrian Boothroyd saluted his struggling team's
character as they boosted their survival hopes with a 4-2 win
over Portsmouth on Monday.


A Hameur Bouazza double-strike and goals from Gavin Mahon and
Tamas Priskin sealed rock-bottom Watford's fourth Premiership win
this season and kept them in the battle to beat the drop.


Boothroyd's side looked as though they had thrown in the towel
when they were thrashed 4-1 at Middlesbrough on Saturday. And
they could have been forgiven for giving up completely when Matt
Taylor gave Portsmouth an early lead at Vicarage Road.


But Bouazza equalised from the penalty spot and the FA Cup semi-
finalists went on to score four for the first time in the
Premiership this season.


Boothroyd said: "I'm obviously delighted for a lot of reasons,
but the main reason is when a team takes as many knocks as we've
had to endure it takes a lot of character to keep coming back.


"There is always that fear in the back of your mind as a manager,
can we come again? But we've done it. The fact that we bounced
back from what was a woeful performance against Middlesbrough and
put that right is a credit to the players."


Boothroyd admitted Watford's impressive display has given him a
selection headache ahead of next Saturday's semi-final against
Manchester United.


"They are nice problems to have," he added. "I thought there were
some terrific performances today. I wanted to shake it up. The
players need to develop and push themselves, if they don't I have
to push them and today it came off."


Watford skipper Mahon had been hauled off at half-time against
Middlesbrough but he hopes his superb strike that gave the
Hornets the lead has secured his place for the semi-final.


"We needed that, especially after the performance at
Middlesbrough," Mahon said. "The fans have been waiting for that
and it's nice to deliver.


"I spoke to the manager yesterday and he told me a few things I
needed to hear. He told me to go out and give him a performance
and drive the team on.


"The semi-final is a game we are all looking foward to. We needed
a big performance going into that game and we've got it."

