

The only woman among the 15 British sailors seized by Iran said
Monday she was forced to strip by her captors, feared rape and
execution and felt like a "traitor" when she signed "confession"
letters.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney and the youngest member of the eight
sailors and seven marines freed last week told the British media
of their ordeal after being given special permission to sell
their stories.


Iran hit back with new footage of the Britons playing table
tennis and chess, which it insisted showed they were well
treated.


Turney, 26, told The Sun newspaper that her interrogators taunted
her with threats to her life.


"At one stage ... (the interrogator) asked me, 'How do you feel
about dying for your country?" she said.


"The next day, another interrogator said to me, 'You don't
understand, you must cooperate with us. Do you not want to see
your daughter again?"


"I was thrown into a tiny little cell and ordered to strip off,"
Turney told the tabloid.


"They took everything from me apart from my knickers. Then some
cotton pyjamas were thrown in for me to wear and four filthy
blankets."


Turney said that soon after their capture in the northern Gulf,
she mouthed to one of the group's officers, Royal Marines Captain
Chris Air: "Are they going to rape me?


"They kept staring at me and repeating 'woman, woman'."


She also said that at one point she feared her captors were
"making my coffin" after she heard "the noise of wood sawing and
nails being hammered near my cell ... Then a woman came into my
cell to measure me up from head to toe."


Iranian television showed letters written by Turney which
apologised for entering Iranian waters and called for British
troops to leave Iraq. She said she was forced to write the
documents.


"When they wanted me to write what was written about the British
and American troops I felt like a traitor to my own country," she
told ITV television.


"I had no choice. If I didn't comply I was looking at being
charged with being a spy."


The youngest captive, Able Seaman Arthur Batchelor, 20, said he
was also stripped to his underpants, left in solitary confinement
for several days, cried himself to sleep and an interrogator
indicated that he might not see his family again.


Following their capture on March 23, Batchelor said: "I was
frozen in terror and just stared into the darkness of my
blindfold. I could feel the emotion welling up inside me."


He added that he had been berated for his youth and diminutive
appearance.


Iran has insisted that the naval personnel were tresspassing in
Iranian waters. Britain insists the group was conducting routine
anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters under a United Nations
mandate.


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds (371,000 euros, 496,000 dollars) between then, with Turney
standing to net around 100,000 pounds.


Critics have blasted the defence ministry for relaxing its ban on
service personnel striking financial deals with media
organisations.


But Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman, the other captured
officer, defended Turney and Batchelor.


"I personally find the subject (of payment) a bit unsavoury, but
I don't begrudge people who have been through an awful ordeal
making a bit of money out of this," he told GMTV television.


The ministry ordered a review of military rules amid growing
anger over its decision.


Second Sea Lord Vice Admiral Adrian Johns, a Royal Navy chief,
said that present rules were outdated and the review needed to
make sure that the regulations were the same for the navy, the
army and the air force.


Iranian television broadcast fresh footage Monday of the group
playing games, watching football on television and eating kebabs
and soup.


"These pictures show the relaxation and freedom they enjoyed
during their detention period. This contradicts what they said
when they arrived home in Britain," said a newsreader.


"Tehran opened its arms and offered hospitality to the 15 British
sailors."


But Carman said: "It is predictable. The way that Iran has
handled a lot of this has been quite clumsy."


He told Sky News television the sailors appeared happy because
they had been reunited after 12 days in solitary confinement.


John Bolton, the US ambassador to the United Nations in
2005-2006, wrote in the Financial Times newspaper that
Ahmadinejad had scored a triumph.


He said Britain had been too soft on Iran. "The only thing risen
from this crisis is Iranian determination and resolve to confront
us elsewhere, at their discretion, whether on Iraq, nuclear
weapons or terrorism," he wrote.

