

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned the Iraqi
Kurds on Monday that hostility toward his country could result in
a "very heavy cost" for them in the future.


His warning came after Massud Barzani, the head of the autonomous
Kurdish region in northern Iraq, reportedly threatened to
interfere in Turkey's affairs if Ankara continued to oppose
Kurdish claims on the oil-rich city of Kirkuk.


"A northern Iraq which neighbours Turkey is gravely wrong in the
way it is currently acting and this could result in a very heavy
cost for them afterwards," Erdogan told reporters.


Barzani has "overstepped the line", he said. "I advise them not
to say words they cannot live up to and to know their place
because they could be later crushed under those words."


But an Iraqi Kurdish presidency official urged Turkey to keep out
of plans to settle the status of Kirkuk, which under the Iraqi
constitution is scheduled to be decided in a referendum before
the year-end.


"Massud Barzani's statement about Turkey was in reaction to
declarations from the Turkish leadership and media against us and
their threats to meddle," in Iraqi Kurdish affairs, said Fuad
Hussein, chief secretary of the presidency.


"We do not interfere in affairs of regional countries but also
demand that others should also not interfere in Kirkuk because it
is an internal issue. It belongs to Kurds, Turkmen and Arab and
Assyrians," Hussein told reporters.


He said Iraqi Kurds considered the scheduled referendum the
proper recourse to solve the fate of Kirkuk, which sits atop a
third of Iraq's oil wealth and would cement economic independence
for Iraqi Kurdistan.


"Threats are not part of our political vocabulary. Our language
has always been one of self defence. At the same time we do not
accept others to use threats against us," Hussein said.


The Turkish media quoted Barzani as saying at the weekend that
Iraqi Kurds would meddle in Turkey's already restive,
predominantly-Kurdish southeast if Ankara continued to oppose
their ambitions to acquire Kirkuk.


Turkey says the referendum on Kirkuk's future status, scheduled
to be held by the year-end, should be postponed, arguing that
thousands of Kurds have been moved into the city to change its
demography.


Following Barzani's reported remarks, Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul also conveyed Turkey's annoyance to US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice in a telephone conversation at the weekend, a
senior Turkish diplomat told AFP.


Asked by reporters on Monday what Turkey's response to Barzani
would be, Gul only said: "You will see."


Ankara worries that Kurdish control of Kirkuk and its vast oil
reserves would embolden what it believes are Kurdish ambitions to
break away from Baghdad.


Kurdish independence, it fears, could fuel the two-decade Kurdish
separatist insurgency in adjoining southeast Turkey, which has
already resulted in more than 37,000 deaths.


Tensions are already high between the two sides over Turkish
accusations that Iraqi Kurds tolerate, and even support,
thousands of armed Turkish Kurd rebels who have found refuge in
the mountains of northern Iraq.


Ankara has threatened a cross-border operation into the region to
crack down on the rebel camps if Baghdad and Washington fail to
act against them.


Separately, the New Anatolian daily reported on Monday that Iraqi
Kurdish objections to Istanbul were instrumental in Baghdad's
decision to favour Egypt as the venue of international talks in
early May to discuss Iraq's turmoil.

