

Arsenal's Champions League hopes are still in the balance after
they were forced to settle for a 0-0 draw at Newcastle on Monday.


Arsene Wenger's side remain in fourth place but they are just two
points ahead of Bolton, who visit the Emirates Stadium in a
crunch clash on Saturday.


Arsenal have gone four matches without a win and, although they
ended a run of three successive defeats, they are stumbling at
the wrong time. Failure to qualify for Europe's elite club
competition would be a financial and footballing calamity for the
London club, but they must improve quickly to avoid that scenario
becoming a reality.


There was little to cheer Wenger at St James' Park as his team
struggled to overcome resilient Newcastle in a scrappy encounter.


Newcastle went closest when James Milner hit the bar, although
Arsenal could have won it late on when Nolberto Solano made a
double goalline clearance to deny Gilberto Silva and then
substitute Jeremie Aliadiere.


Wenger insisted his side can hold onto fourth spot by beating
Bolton and he said: "Of course we want to beat them at home and
we think we are capable of doing that.


"It is a big game for us. We want to be in the Champions League
and we will focus on just giving everything. We have the
potential to do it.


"You could see our bodies were a bit jaded today. We lacked a bit
of creativity but the spirit was fantastic."


Bolton missed a chance to increase the pressure on Arsenal as
Everton fought back to draw 1-1 at the Reedbok Stadium.


Sam Allardyce's side could have moved level on points with the
Gunners with a win and they were on course after 18 minutes.


Joleon Lescott played Kevin Davies onside from Ivan Campo's free-
kick and the striker controlled on his chest before firing home
from close range.


But Everton hit back and equalised in the 33rd minute through
James Vaughan. His initial shot was blocked but the rebound fell
kindly for the young striker and he drove past Jussi
Jaaskelainen. That was as good as it got for Vaughan though as he
later needed hospital treatment after severing an artery.


Allardyce claimed Everton's goal should have been disallowed and
said: "Gary Speed tells me he got caught with an elbow and that
stopped him heading the ball. The referee said he saw it but he
let play go on and from there they scored."


Struggling Wigan held on for a vital 1-1 draw at Aston Villa
despite Antonio Valencia's first half red card.


The hard-earned point allowed Paul Jewell's 10 men to move three
points clear of third bottom Sheffield United as they scrap to
stay up.


Emile Heskey had put Wigan ahead against the run of play in the
21st minute. Denny Landzaat curled in a corner and Lee McCulloch
headed on to Heskey, who finished from close range.


Valencia was sent off late in the first half for a two-footed
lunge on Wilfred Bouma. Villa piled on the pressure and Gabriel
Agbonlahor levelled five minutes into the second half.


Jewell said: "I have to give our lads enormous credit. We had to
reorganise three or four times after Valencia was sent off but
they dug in, blocked shots and I'm proud of them."


Manchester City eased their relegation fears with a 3-1 win at
Fulham that left the hosts deep in trouble themselves.


Chris Coleman's side are without a victory in eight matches and
remain just four points from the drop zone, while City are now
edging towards mid-table safety.


Joey Barton drilled City into the lead with a fine strike from
the edge of the area in the 21st minute. Barton turned provider
after 36 minutes when he slipped a pass to DaMarcus Beasley and
the American finished well.


City striker Darius Vassell added to Fulham's misery with a third
goal in the 59th minute and Carlos Bocanegra's 76th minute header
was no consolation for the hosts.


Coleman said: "There's no time to start feeling sorry for
ourselves. We are in a relegation dogfight and we need fighters.
It's the first time we've been this close to going down in four
years. We've got five massive games and the next one against
Reading is a monster."


Pearce was relieved to see his side finally find their form in
front of goal. "It's been our Achilles heel this season," he
said. "We've been creating chances and not taking them, but we
had three great finishes today."


Watford boosted their slender chances of avoiding relegation with
a 4-2 win over Portsmouth.


Adrian Boothroyd's side won for just the fourth time in the
Premiership this season thanks to a double strike from Hameur
Bouazza and goals from Gavin Mahon and Tamas Priskin.


Matt Taylor had given Portsmouth a 16th minute lead but Harry
Redknapp's team showed no stomach for a fight and Arnold
Mvuemba's late goal was no consolation for the visitors.


Watford are still likely to suffer a quick return to the
Championship and they need fellow strugglers Charlton to slip up
against Reading in Monday's late match.

