

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced on Monday Iran was now
producing enriched uranium on an industrial scale and warned that
the Islamic republic would defend its nuclear rights "to the
end."


In a fiery speech at Iran's most sensitive nuclear facility on
its first atomic technology day, Ahmadinejad promised that no
amount of international pressure would prevent Iran from taking
its nuclear programme to new "summits."


"Today... this country has joined the countries that produce
nuclear fuel on an industrial scale," he said in the keynote
speech at Iran's uranium enrichment plant in the central town of
Natanz.


Any expectations that Ahmadinejad would give a precise number of
how many centrifuges had been installed at the plant were not
fulfilled and he gave no figures in his speech.


However the announcement that enrichment has now reached an
industrial scale indicates that Iran now has far more than the
two cascades of 164 centrifuges it was previously operating at
the Natanz plant.


The vice president of Iran's atomic energy organisation, Mohammad
Saeedi, said Iran would not disclose the number of centrifuges
that it has put in place at the plant.


"The claim that entering industrial phase of enrichment means
installing 3,000 centrifuges is not correct," he said, referring
to one of the chief targets of the Iranian nuclear programme.


"The pilot state was two cascades of 164 centrifuges. Passing
this stage means the industrialisation of enrichment," he
explained, according the the Fars news agency.


Days after he announced the release of 15 British sailors to end
a potentially dangerous standoff with London, Ahmadinejad vowed
Iran would not allow world powers to "put obstacles" in the path
of its nuclear programme.


"They should know that our nation with awareness and faith has
stood by its leadership and will defend its rights to the end,"
he added.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two packages of
sanctions against Iran over its failure to heed ultimatums from
the world body to suspend uranium enrichment.


The US State Department said Iran's announcement that it was now
enriching uranium on an industrial scale showed the sanctions
were justified.


Spokesman Sean McCormack called Ahmadinejad's speech a "missed
opportunity" by an increasingly isolated regime.


Enrichment of uranium is the key sticking point in the standoff
between Iran and the West as the process can produce nuclear fuel
but in highly extended form can also make the fissile core for an
atomic bomb.


Atomic energy organisation chief Gholam Reza Aghazadeh said Iran
had now started mass production of the centrifuges, which are set
up in long cascades to enrich the uranium from a gas feedstock.


"Today, with the start of mass-producing centrifuges and the
start of uranium enrichment on an industrial phase, another step
was taken for the flourishing of the Islamic republic," Aghazadeh
said.


In an indication of further tensions ahead, lead nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani warned that Iran will quit the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty if international pressure on its
enrichment programme continues.


"If they pressure us further, we will have no choice but to
reconsider our membership of the NPT as parliament has ruled,"
Larijani said.


He was referring to a law approved by parliament last year
allowing the government to reduce cooperation with the
International Atomic Energy Agency which conducts inspections of
atomic plants under the treaty.


The atomic technology day marks the first anniversary of Iran's
production of uranium sufficiently enriched to make nuclear fuel,
and was being marked by a string of events at key installations
across the country.


State-run bus and metro travel in Tehran were made free for the
day in celebration, and bells at Iranian schools rang out in
unison at 9 am local time, state television reported.


The government sent out text messages to Iranians to congratulate
them over the nuclear celebrations, the ISNA news agency
reported.


A human chain of 15,000 members of Iran's volunteer Basij militia
was to surround another key nuclear facility outside the central
city of Isfahan, and a similar event was to be held at the heavy
water plant in Arak.


Last April, Iran announced it had succeeded in enriching uranium
to 3.5 percent, good enough for nuclear fuel but still well off
the 90 percent plus levels required to make an atomic weapon.

