

North Korea has agreed to turn over the remains of six US
soldiers killed during the Korean War, the envoy at the helm of a
high power delegation to Pyongyang said in a statement Monday.


US presidential contender Bill Richardson, who is leading a high-
level bipartisan mission to Pyongyang, "secured assurances" from
the North Korean military on the return of the remains, his
office said in a statement.


General Ri Chan Bok, North Korea's commanding general at the
demilitarized zone dividing the two Koreas, pledged to Richardson
that the remains would be handed over to the UN Command and
Military Armistice Commission on Wednesday, the statement said.


"This is a very positive gesture on the part of the North Korean
government," Richardson said after his talks with Ri.


"Hopefully it will help heal the wounds from the Korean War and
start a process to bring closure to the thousands of American
families awaiting word of their loved ones who perished," he
said.


Richardson, a 2008 Democratic presidential hopeful and governor
of the southwestern US state of New Mexico, had said ahead of his
visit that "if we get some remains back, it's a sign of progress
in the relationship."


More than 33,000 US troops died in the 1950-1953 war and about
8,100 are listed as missing, and Ri had "ordered" North Korean
soldiers to step up the search for more remains, the statement
said.


The United States and North Korea are still technically at war
and have no diplomatic relations. The US military suspended joint
operations with North Korea to recover the remains of American
soldiers about two years ago due to concerns about safety in an
uncertain political climate.


The Korean People's Army (KPA) is also turning over the
identities of three perished US soldiers based on dog tags found
with the remains in the Unsan region of North Korea, the
statement said.


A formal ceremony marking the transfer of remains will be held
Thursday in Seoul. An arrival honor guard ceremony is scheduled
for later Thursday in Honolulu, Hawaii where the remains will be
DNA tested.


Richardson also met Monday with the lead North Korean envoy to
the six-party talks aimed at ending Pyongyang's nuclear weapons
drive and pressed the Stalinist state to meet the deadline this
week for it to begin dismantling its nuclear weapons arsenal, the
statement said.


It did not say how the North Korean envoy, Kim Ki Gwan, who is
the Vice Foreign Minister, responded.


The United States, China, the two Koreas, Russia and Japan
reached an agreement on February 13 under which the North would
disable its nuclear programs in return for economic aid and
diplomatic benefits.


As a first step, it was to shut down and seal its reactor and
other facilities at Yongbyon by April 14, invite in UN inspectors
and receive an initial 50,000 tons of fuel oil.


But talks have been stymied by a row over 25 million dollars in
North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation on
suspicion they are linked to money-laundering and counterfeiting.


The US State Department and Treasury Department said last week
that Washington had found a way to unblock the funds to get the
disarmament talks moving.


But the US envoy to the nuclear talks on a visit to Tokyo
declined Monday to predict whether a breakthrough can be reached.


"It is hard to say. We have really worked hard with Macau
authorities, with the Beijing government, also with the DPRK
(North Korea)," Hill said.

