

Watford boosted their slender chances of avoiding relegation with
a 4-2 win over Portsmouth on Monday.


Adrian Boothroyd's side won for just the fourth time in the
Premiership this season thanks to a double strike from Hameur
Bouazza and goals from Gavin Mahon and Tamas Priskin.


Matt Taylor had given Portsmouth an early lead but Harry
Redknapp's team showed no stomach for a fight against battling
Watford and Arnold Mvuemba's late goal was no consolation for the
visitors.


Watford, eight points from safety, are still likely to suffer a
quick a return to the Championship after just one season in
English football's top division.


But this victory at Vicarage Road, the first time they had come
from behind to win this season, at least gave them a glimmer of
hope that they can mount a great escape in their remaining five
matches.


Portsmouth arrived still on a high after their win over
Premiership leaders Manchester United on Saturday and they were
quickly into their stride. They took the lead in the 16th minute
through Taylor, who followed up his goal against United with a
fine finish.


He controlled Gary O'Neil's pass 25 yards out and, as Watford's
defenders backed off, he had time to look up and assess his
options before curling a shot past Hornets keeper Ben Foster.


But Watford are nothing if not determined and the FA Cup semi-
finalists snatched an equaliser after 27 minutes.


Priskin provided the opportunity by winning a penalty when he
stumbled under Djimi Traore's challenge after cutting in from the
byline.


The contact was minimal but referee Lee Mason had no doubts and
pointed to the spot. After a debate among the Watford players
over who should take the penalty, Bouazza stepped up to send
David James the wrong way.


Watford looked dead and buried after losing 4-1 at Middlesbrough
on Saturday but they were visibly lifted by their equaliser here.


They pushed Portsmouth back and went ahead through Mahon's
stunning strike on the stroke of half-time.


James punched Tommy Smith's cross out to the edge of the area,
but Mahon latched on to the loose ball and drove a fierce half-
volley back past the Portsmouth keeper for his first goal of the
season.


There was no let-up by Watford after the interval and they
extended their lead with a well-worked goal after 51 minutes.


Bouazza slipped a pass to Steve Kabba on the left wing and the
striker whipped in a cross to the far post, where Priskin sent
his shot back past James into the opposite corner.


Bouazza got his second in the 73rd minute when he played a one-
two with Kabba and beat James from close range at the second
attempt.


Mvuemba got one back for Portsmouth with his first goal following
his loan move from Rennes. The French midfielder turned and
lashed a shot into the roof of the net after 81 minutes, but
there was never any chance of a late comeback.

