

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced on Monday Iran was now
producing enriched uranium on an industrial scale, warning that
the Islamic republic would defend its nuclear rights "to the
end."


In a fiery speech at Iran's most sensitive nuclear facility on
its first atomic technology day, Ahmadinejad promised that no
amount of international pressure would prevent Iran from taking
its nuclear programme to new "summits."


"The great Iranian nation, which for past centuries has been a
pioneer of science, will not allow some bullying powers to put
obstacles in its path of progress by influencing the
international community," he said.


"They should know that our nation with awareness and faith has
stood by its leadership and will defend its rights to the end,"
he added, in the keynote speech at Iran's uranium enrichment
plant in the central town of Natanz.


"We will go on to reach the summits.


"Today... this country has joined the countries that produces
nuclear fuel on an industrial scale."


The president gave no figures over how many centrifuges Iran had
now installed at the Natanz plant to enrich uranium, the process
that can produce nuclear fuel but in highly extended form can
also make the fissile core for an atomic bomb.


But atomic energy organisation chief Gholam Reza Aghazadeh said
Iran had now started mass production of the centrifuges, which
are set up in long cascades to enrich the uranium from the gas
feedstock.


"Today, with the start of mass-producing centrifuges and the
start of uranium enrichment on an industrial phase, another step
was taken for the flourishing of the Islamic republic," Aghazadeh
said.


Lead nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani warned that Iran will quit
the nculear Non- Proliferation Treaty if international pressure
on its enrichment programme continues.


"If they pressure us further we will have no choice but to
reconsider our membership of the NPT as parliament has ruled,"
Larijani said.


He was referring to a law approved by parliament last year
allowing the government to reduce cooperation with the
International Atomic Energy Agency which conducts inspections of
atomic plants under the treaty.


Just days after Tehran released 15 British sailors to end a
potentially dangerous stand-off with London, the announcement
that Iran has achieved industrial-scale enrichment is likely to
further strain tensions with the West.


The Islamic republic insists that its nuclear drive is solely
aimed at supplying energy for a growing population.


Iran's stated aim is to install 3,000 uranium-enriching
centrifuges at a massive underground hall at the Natanz plant.


Tehran originally wanted to have the 3,000 installed by March,
but so far it has officially confirmed only that it has put in
place two cascades of 164 centrifuges apiece.


The atomic technology day marks the first anniversary of Iran's
production of uranium sufficiently enriched to make nuclear fuel,
and was being marked by a string of events at key installations
across the country.


State-run bus and metro travel in Tehran were made free for the
day in celebration, and bells at Iranian schools rang out in
unison at 9 am local time, state television reported.


The government sent out text messages to Iranians to congratulate
them over the nuclear celebrations, the ISNA news agency
reported.


A human chain of 15,000 members of Iran's volunteer Basij militia
was to surround another key nuclear facility outside the central
city of Isfahan, and a similar event was to be held at the heavy
water plant in Arak.


More than 100 people gathered outside Iran's atomic energy agency
organisation headquarters in Tehran, burning the US and British
flags. "Nuclear energy will flow like blood through every minute
vein of Iran," read one placard.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two packages of
sanctions against Iran over its failure to heed ultimatums from
the world body to suspend uranium enrichment.


Last April, Iran announced it had succeeded in enriching uranium
to 3.5 percent, good enough for nuclear fuel but still well off
the 90 percent plus levels required to make an atomic weapon.

