

Britain's defence secretary announced Monday that military
personnel have been banned from selling their stories to the
media, after his department was heavily criticised for allowing
15 sailors held by Iran last month to accept payment for
interviews.


Des Browne said the Royal Navy had "not reached a satisfactory
outcome" in its decision on whether to allow the 14 men and one
woman held by Tehran for two weeks to financially benefit from
their media interaction, though he acknowledged it was a "very
tough call."


The row erupted over the weekend after the defence ministry made
the unusual decision to permit the group to strike deals with
newspapers and broadcasters, saying there were "exceptional
circumstances."


It later emerged that 26-year-old mother-of-one Faye Turney, the
public face of the crisis, had reportedly received around 100,000
pounds for interviews with The Sun tabloid and commercial
broadcaster ITV.


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds between them. Turney's interview with ITV is set to air
later on Monday.


In his first comments on the controversy, Browne, who was aware
of the original decision, said that until officials have "clear
guidance for the future ... no further service personnel will be
allowed to talk to the media about their experiences in return
for payment."


"All of us who have been involved over the last few days
recognise we have not reached a satisfactory outcome. We must
learn from this."


Attacks on the ministry and the 15 mariners mounted following the
publication of Turney's account in Monday's Sun tabloid, while
the Daily Mirror carried an interview with 20-year-old Arthur
Batchelor, the youngest of the group.


Earlier, the Second Sea Lord Vice Admiral Adrian Johns told the
BBC that a review would be launched to ensure regulations were
consistent across all the military forces, following suggestions
the head of the army told soldiers they would not be allowed to
sell their stories.


Even one of the officers in charge of the seized naval personnel
said he found the situation "a little unsavoury" as some of the
freed sailors began recounting their grim ordeals for large
payments.


Opposition politicians accused the Labour Party government of
hitting a new propaganda low as a media debate raged as to
whether the sailors and marines should have been allowed to
speak.


In the ITV interview, Turney commented that she had been "offered
a hell of a lot of money for my story" and that she had not taken
"the biggest offer."


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman said he and Royal Marines
Captain Chris Air, the two officers in the group, were not
accepting money for their stories.


"I personally find the subject (of payment) a bit unsavoury, but
I don't begrudge people who have been through an awful ordeal
making a bit of money out of this," Carman told GMTV television.


"In the case of Faye Turney, she has a young daughter and the
money could set her up for life."


Tellingly, Kelvin MacKenzie, The Sun's editor during its
sensationalist heyday in the 1980s, said he would not have chased
the sailors' stories and accused government "idiots" of making a
"catastrophic error."


"Curiously enough I don't think I'd touch it with a barge pole,"
he told BBC radio.


Lord Michael Heseltine, a former British defence secretary and
deputy prime minister, said he had "never heard anything so
appalling" as ordinary troops earning little money while those
captured earned a small fortune.


Turney, who became the public face of the crisis, spoke in her
interview with The Sun of how she feared rape and execution, was
stripped to her underwear, lied to about the other detainees and
was told she might never see her three- year-old daughter again.


Batchelor told the Mirror of how he was similarly stripped, and
an interrogator indicated that if he did not co-operate he would
not see his family. It was unclear if he was paid for his
interview.


The group were captured on March 23. Britain maintains they were
in Iraqi waters carying out anti-smuggling operations under a
United Nations mandate. Iran insists they were in its waters.


The sailors were freed and flew home Thursday.


Sally Veck, whose daughter Eleanor Dlugosz, 19, was among four
Britons killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq last week, told The
Times newspaper it was a "terrible shame" that some of the freed
captives had sold their tales.


"If you are a member of the military ... you should do your duty
and not expect to make money by selling stories," she said.

