

The United States Monday dramatically sharpened trade tensions
with China by launching a wide-ranging WTO complaint over
copyright piracy in the booming Asian giant.


In parallel, the government filed action at the World Trade
Organization accusing China of restricting the distribution of
foreign music, films and books.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab said the administration
remains committed to dialogue with China, which has been accused
of riding roughshod over US commercial rights in its rapid rise
to prosperity.


But amid a clamor from the Democratic-led Congress to confront
China over its industrial policies, market access and currency
regime, she stressed: "Piracy and counterfeiting levels in China
remain unacceptably high."


Poor protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) in China
"costs US firms and workers billions of dollars each year," and
for many products "also poses a serious risk of harm to
consumers" around the world.


The complaint over barriers to foreign media alleges that Chinese
distribution rules "hobble" cultural products, such as books and
Hollywood movies, from reaching the vast audience of the world's
most populous nation.


Schwab added that these products are also "favorite targets for
IPR pirates," leaving legitimate foreign entertainment shut out
of China altogether.


Under the WTO process, the two countries will have 60 days to try
to iron out their differences. If they do not reach agreement,
the United States will then have the right to demand WTO
arbitration.


If the US case were ultimately upheld by a WTO dispute settlement
panel, the United States could then gain the right to impose
retaliatory duties and tariffs on Chinese imports.


Getting tough after years of quiet diplomacy, the United States
took China to the WTO in February in a complaint over industrial
subsidies. And in an unprecedented decision late last month, the
United States announced penalty tariffs on China to offset
government subsidies for a paper product.


The decision against imports of Chinese high-gloss paper prompted
a strong reaction in Beijing. But US officials have repeatedly
said they see WTO arbitration as the natural evolution of a
maturing commercial relationship.


While launching its WTO actions, the US administration under
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has been pursuing a high-level
dialogue with Beijing on strategic economic matters, a process
that Schwab said would continue.


The US trade deficit with China ballooned to more than 200
billion dollars last year, a yawning imbalance explained in part
by US consumers' voracious appetite for cheap Chinese imports.


But many US lawmakers allege that Chinese government subsidies,
discrimination against foreign companies and a skewed exchange
rate are unfairly fueling the country's export machine.


According to a Congress-appointed panel, China's own data
estimates that counterfeit products account for 15 to 20 percent
of products made in the country, or eight percent of its 2.2
-trillion-dollar economy.


China last Friday tightened its rules on IPR theft, lowering the
threshold for "serious offenders" who will face up to seven years
in jail, state media said.


Anyone who produces more than 2,500 disks of movies, music or
computer software is now regarded as a serious offender, down
from the previous cut-off level of 5,000 disks, the China Daily
reported.


The US government welcomed that move. "However, wholesalers and
distributors still will be able to operate below high thresholds
without fear of criminal liability.


"These thresholds appear to effectively permit large-scale piracy
and counterfeiting."


The US action also complained that fake goods, if seized by
Chinese customs authorities, too easily end up on the black
market "when WTO rules dictate that these goods normally should
be kept out of the marketplace altogether."


And it argued that while awaiting approval by Chinese censors,
foreign media works are routinely faked with no right of redress
for the rights holders.

