

US President George W. Bush on Monday called for an overhaul of
US immigration law in 2007, focusing on a rare bright spot in his
grim relations with Democrats fiercely opposed to the Iraq war.


On the US-Mexico border, Bush inspected the construction of a
fence and other measures meant to stem the tide of undocumented
immigrants into the United States and urged lawmakers to
approving sweeping reforms this year.


"This is a matter of national interest, and it's a matter of deep
conviction for me," he said in a speech, adding he hoped "that
Congress can pass a comprehensive bill and I can sign it into law
this year."


If the issue drags into next year, it risks stalling as the 2008
White House race goes into high gear.


The embattled president's proposals include the creation of a
temporary guest worker program and clearing the way for some
undocumented immigrants to become US citizens, coupled with a
series of tougher security measures.


His ideas divide his party, with many Republicans saying they
want to see tougher enforcement of border controls and deriding
his guest worker program as an improper "amnesty."


Bush's Democratic critics, who took control the US Congress in
January, are generally more receptive, though some with close
ties to US unions worry that immigration puts downward pressure
on wages.


The US Congress in late May is expected to take up the debate on
what to do about the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants
in the United States, according to a congressional source.


"It's an emotional issue," said the US president. "People have
got deep convictions and my hope is that we can have a serious,
and civil, and conclusive debate."


At his stop here, Bush put special emphasis on border security
and enforcement, noting he was pushing to double the size of the
US Border Patrol and advocating new high-tech ways of detecting
people sneaking in.


But he said any comprehensive deal must also create a temporary
worker program; hold employers accountable if they hire
undocumented workers; resolve the states of the undocumented
workers already in the United States; and ensure that those who
want to stay speak English and know US history.


Many of these proposals have run into opposition from lawmakers
or immigrant advocacy groups -- including an initial suggestion
that a three-year work permit cost a hefty 3,500-dollar fee.


But Bush has powerful allies in the US Congress, including
Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy, the chief architect of one
immigration overhaul bill.


"While we're still negotiating in the Senate, I'm optimistic that
soon we will have legislation and I'm determined to make 2007 the
year that we fix our broken system. The American people have
waited long enough," he said recently.


Republican Senator John McCain, one of his party's 2008
presidential contenders, has also been working on the issue.


While the House of Representatives also has legislation in the
works.

