

Arsenal's Champions League hopes are still in the balance after
they were forced to settle for a 0-0 draw at Newcastle on Monday.


Arsene Wenger's side remain in fourth place but they are just two
points ahead of Bolton, who visit the Emirates Stadium in a
crunch clash on Saturday.


Arsenal have gone four matches without a win and, although they
ended a run of three successive defeats, they are stumbling at
the wrong time. Failure to qualify for Europe's elite club
competition would be a financial and footballing calamity for the
London club, but they must improve quickly to avoid that scenario
becoming a reality.


There was little to cheer Wenger at St James' Park as his team
struggled to overcome resilient Newcastle in a scrappy encounter.


Newcastle went closest when James Milner hit the bar, although
Arsenal could have won it late on when Nolberto Solano made a
double goalline clearance to deny Gilberto Silva and then
substitute Jeremie Aliadiere.


Bolton missed a chance to increase the pressure on Arsenal as
Everton fought back to draw 1-1 at the Reedbok Stadium.


Sam Allardyce's side could have moved level on points with the
Gunners with a win and they were on course after 18 minutes.


Joleon Lescott played Kevin Davies onside from Ivan Campo's free-
kick and the striker controlled on his chest before firing home
from close range.


But Everton hit back and equalised in the 33rd minute through
James Vaughan. His initial shot was blocked but the rebound fell
kindly for the young striker and he drove past Jussi
Jaaskelainen.


Struggling Wigan held on for a vital 1-1 draw at Aston Villa
despite Antonio Valencia's first half red card.


The hard-earned point allowed Paul Jewell's 10 men to move three
points clear of third bottom Sheffield United as they scrap to
stay up.


Emile Heskey had put Wigan ahead against the run of play in the
21st minute. Denny Landzaat curled in a corner and Lee McCulloch
headed on to Heskey, who finished from close range.


Wigan's hopes of a crucial win were dented late in the first half
when Valencia lunged in two-footed on Wilfred Bouma and referee
Mark Halsey immediately flashed a red card.


Villa piled on the pressure and Gabriel Agbonlahor levelled five
minutes into the second half.


Manchester City eased their relegation fears with a 3-1 win at
Fulham that left the hosts deep in trouble themselves.


Chris Coleman's side are without a victory in eight matches and
remain just four points from the drop zone, while City are now
edging towards mid-table safety.


Joey Barton drilled City into the lead with a fine strike from
the edge of the area in the 21st minute. Barton turned provider
after 36 minutes when he slipped a pass to DaMarcus Beasley and
the American finished well.


City striker Darius Vassell added to Fulham's misery with a third
goal in the 59th minute and Carlos Bocanegra's 76th minute header
was no consolation for the hosts.


Watford boosted their slender chances of avoiding relegation with
a 4-2 win over Portsmouth.


Adrian Boothroyd's side won for just the fourth time in the
Premiership this season thanks to a double strike from Hameur
Bouazza and goals from Gavin Mahon and Tamas Priskin.


Matt Taylor had given Portsmouth a 16th minute lead but Harry
Redknapp's team showed no stomach for a fight against battling
Watford.


Bouazza equalised from the penalty spot after 28 minutes after
Djimi Traore fouled Priskin before Mahon hit a superb half-volley
to put Watford in front on the stroke of half-time.


Priskin made it three when he turned in Steve Kabba's 51st minute
cross and Bouazza grabbed his second in the 73rd minute with a
close range finish before Arnold Mvuemba got one back for the
shell-shocked visitors.


Watford are still likely to suffer a quick return to the
Championship and they need fellow strugglers Charlton to slip up
against Reading in Monday's late match.

