

The United States looked set Monday to escalate trade frictions
with China by launching a major WTO complaint over rampant
copyright piracy in the booming Asian giant.


In parallel, according to administration sources, the government
was to file action at the World Trade Organization accusing China
of restricting the distribution of foreign music, films and
books.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab was expected to unveil the
measures at a press conference scheduled for 1700 GMT, signaling
a more muscular approach to perennial complaints over trade with
China.


The action at the Geneva-based arbiter of global commerce would
come as the government faces rising pressure from the Democratic-
led Congress to confront China over its industrial policies,
currency regime and other headaches.


The US trade deficit with China ballooned to more than 200
billion dollars last year, a yawning imbalance explained in part
by US consumers' voracious appetite for cheap Chinese imports.


But many US lawmakers allege that Chinese government subsidies,
discrimination against foreign companies and a skewed exchange
rate are unfairly fueling the country's export machine.


While hailing a new willingness by China's leaders to protect
copyright, through installing legal software on all government
computers for instance, US companies still complain that the
country is a hotbed of fraud.


According to a Congress-appointed panel, China's own data
estimates that counterfeit products account for 15 to 20 percent
of products made in the country, or eight percent of its 2.2
-trillion-dollar economy.


Last October, Washington informed China that it would be filing a
piracy case but then backed off, with the support of US
businesses, when Beijing asked for further bilateral discussion
to address American concerns.


While pressing for China to clean up copyright "theft," US
business leaders are wary of a damaging clash with the rising
Asian power.


Tom Donahue, president of the powerful US Chamber of Commerce,
warned last month against "the risk of cutting off our nose to
spite our face" through driving up prices of goods and reducing
choice for consumers.


Getting tough after years of quiet diplomacy, the United States
took China to the WTO in February in a complaint over industrial
subsidies. The global body will set up a settlement panel if the
two nations fail to iron out the dispute within 60 days.


And in an unprecedented decision late last month, the United
States announced penalty tariffs on China to offset government
subsidies for a paper product.


The decision against imports of Chinese high-gloss paper prompted
a strong reaction in Beijing.


"This action of the US side goes against the consensus reached by
the leaders of both countries to resolve differences through
dialogue," commerce ministry spokesman Wang Xinpei said,
according to the Xinhua news agency.


"China strongly requires the US side to reconsider the decision
and make prompt changes," Wang said.


But in announcing the paper tariffs, Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez stressed that the administration was not retreating
from economic engagement with China.


"Rather it speaks to the growing strength of our commercial
relationship and the fact that as economic partners, we must be
above all fair," he said. "We will continue to apply this
principle to all our trading partners."


While launching its WTO actions, the US administration under
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has been pursuing a high-level
dialogue with Beijing on strategic economic matters.

