

Oil prices slumped on profit-taking Monday after the end of a
two-week standoff between Britain and key crude producer Iran
over 15 captured British sailors and marines, dealers said.


But they said that in light Easter trade, concerns over tight
motor fuel reserves in the United States remained an issue.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, dived 2.77 dollars to close at 61.51 dollars a
barrel.


In London, where most other markets remained closed for the long
Easter weekend, Brent North Sea crude for May delivery fell 1.28
dollars to 66.59 dollars a barrel.


New York had also been closed for the Good Friday holiday.


"You have an unwinding of last week's events," said Eric
Wittenauer at AG Edwards, referring to a rally sparked by
Britain's standoff with Iran.


"The hostages were released by Iran, but we didn't have as much
as a selloff as we had expected because we were heading into a
long weekend and people didn't want to be short," he said.


"That's where today's selloff comes in."


Wittenauer noted also that a number of US refineries are out of
commission because of maintenance or glitches, "and whenever
that's happened they are not demanding as much crude as they
would otherwise."


Victor Shum, an analyst with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz
in Singapore, said that before a long weekend, "traders tend to
be more cautious and hold long positions."


"Now that it is after the long weekend, we see a bit more
downward correction."


But Shum added that "pricing remains strong relative to what it
was before the seizure" of the British naval personnel, who
returned to London last Thursday following their release by
Tehran.


Shum said that tightening gasoline supply and prevailing
geopolitical risks will keep crude prices from dipping much
further.


US gasoline (petrol) reserves plummeted by five million barrels
last week, against market forecasts of a drop of just 300,000
barrels.


Falls in US gasoline inventories in the first quarter have raised
concerns over motor fuel supply ahead of the peak driving season,
which starts next month when many Americans hit the roads for
vacation.


"Pricing remains robust because the market finds support in the
tightening product markets and there could be higher demand for
crude oil as US refineries are coming out of spring maintenance,"
Shum said.


"There are also lingering geopolitical concerns like Iran's
nuclear ambition and Nigeria's upcoming general elections, which
may spur civil unrest and threaten supply disruptions."


Two Turkish engineers were kidnapped on Friday night in the
volatile oil-rich south of Nigeria, underlining the continued
risks to the oil industry in Africa's biggest crude producer.

