

UN helicopters flew in extra ballots to remote polling centres
that ran short as East Timor saw surprisingly high turnouts in
Monday's poll for a new president, officials said.


The Timorese Technical Secretariat for Election Administration
(STAE), which described the vote as successful and peaceful, said
reserve ballots were needed at 14 of 504 polling centres based on
the latest information it had.


UNMIT, or the UN mission in East Timor, and the international
peacekeeping force assisted by supplying helicopters for hard to
reach polling centres, STAE said in a statement.


They made four "rapid reaction support flights to meet ballot
paper deficits," the local body helping to administer the vote
said.


"On the back of what so far has been an operationally successful
and peaceful polling day, a high morning and early-afternoon
turnout has been reported for Timor-Leste's (East Timor's)
presidential election," it said.


STAE said 5,000 extra ballots were needed in polling centres that
ran short.


"At STAE headquarters in Dili, government teams supported by
UNMIT advisers moved over 5,000 additional reserve ballot papers
to polling centre locations, including those inaccessible by
road," it said.


Election regulations stated that people still in voting queues at
4.00 pm (0700 GMT), when polls began closing, were allowed to
carry on and cast their ballots once they had received them.


East Timor's national election commission said the authorities
had been unable to deliver additional ballot papers to four
places in time.


"We are thinking of establishing the re-operation of the process
of casting votes," said Martinho Gusmao, a commission spokesman.


He did not say how many voters were involved or whether they
would cast ballots tomorrow.


Counting was underway Monday evening to select a successor to the
charismatic former guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao, who is not
standing for re-election.


The commission had earlier said an "emergency situation" had
developed at polling stations across the country because of a
shortage of ballot papers.


"This is an emergency situation in all districts, because the
queues were still long but the ballots were exhausted," Gusmao
had said.


The commission organised the ballot, the first presidential
election since impoverished East Timor's independence in 2002
after a bloody split from Indonesia three years earlier.


Xanana Gusmao won the first vote for the largely ceremonial post
of president, which was held just prior to troubled East Timor's
independence.

