

The United States on Monday admitted implicitly that it did not
interdict a shipment of North Korean weapons to Ethiopia despite
UN sanctions on Pyongyang for its nuclear test.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack refused to comment
directly on a New York Times report that the United States
allowed Ethiopia to purchase the arms from North Korea in
January, when Addis Ababa was supporting Somali government troops
in a battle against Islamist militias, and three months after the
UN sanctions were adopted.


He did say, however, that the US government had reasons not to
intercept certain suspect ships, as it was empowered to do, by
the Proliferation Security Initiative, or PSI.


"In terms of activities within PSI, you are always doing a cost-
benefit analysis as to whether or not it is to the benefit of the
overall effort to launch particular operations, to intercept,
board, ask for boarding rights to any particular shipment," he
said.


"Those are requests that are not cost-free. There is a certain
amount of political capital that you have in making those kinds
of requests and you want to husband that in such way that you
really do target those shipments that are of the highest threats
to American security or to international security," McCormack
said.


"We have encouraged the Ethiopian government to take a look at
with whom they are doing business to ensure that any transaction
that it has complies fully with (UN Security Council)
resolutions," he told reporters.


PSI is a US initiative, which several seagoing countries have
signed onto and 60 others have promised cooperation.


The exact contents and value of the January shipment were
unknown, although the Times said US intelligence agencies assumed
that it was probably made up of tank parts and other military
equipment.


The sanctions called for a halt of sales to and transfer from
North Korea of battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large-
caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters,
warships, missiles or missile systems.

