

Besieged West Indies manager Clive Lloyd has defended the
controversial decision to grant the squad a mini-holiday despite
Brian Lara's men standing on the brink of World Cup elimination.


After last weekend's Super Eights defeat to Sri Lanka in Guyana -
the third loss in a row - some players went back home, before
reassembling in midweek.


On Tuesday, they face South Africa here in a match they have to
win.


"This is something that was asked for before the tournament
started. If you have ten days between matches, there was nothing
wrong with going home for a short while, and it was only a few of
them who went home anyway. It wasn't a case where everybody just
walked off in frustration," Lloyd told the Barbados Nation
newspaper.


"We weren't going to do any training for those two days anyway;
so there was no problem. You can't really practise for ten days
straight.


"We have a lot of youngsters in the team with a lot of pressure
on them. Most of them have never been in a World Cup before. We
qualified (for the Super Eights) and we beat a very good team in
Pakistan. There are other top teams who were supposed to be here
and they are not here.


"All right, we haven't been playing well. We would have to be
silly to think we are doing well at this stage, and every one of
the boys knows he can do better.


"So let's hope that they can do so. We have three more games and
if we can win them, who knows what can happen. But I want the
people not to hit the guys. We have to work with them and
encourage them all the way."


After Tuesday's match, the West Indies travel to Barbados where
they will face Bangladesh on April 19 and England on April 21 at
the refurbished Kensington Oval.


Lloyd said the team's batting has been the disappointment.


"There is still life in this team and there is great hope in the
camp. What we have to do is to bat much better than we have been
doing so far," said the former skipper.


"We have not been getting good starts, and let's hope that this
can happen. We know the pressure is on but we have hope. We have
self-belief."

