

Police in New Delhi enforced a ban on smoking and drinking while
driving Monday, as part of a stern crackdown to restore order on
the Indian capital's famously chaotic roads, officials said.


A raft of penalties were enforced in line with a March 26 city
High Court order aimed at disciplining wayward New Delhi
motorists.


Some 14 million people and four million vehicles jostle for space
on the capital's clogged roads daily, despite two million
commuters using the metro.


"We collected 1.7 million rupees (37,000 dollars) in fines from
errant drivers within eight hours of launching the campaign at
6:00 am (0030 GMT)," a traffic police department spokesman said.


A total of 4,571 motorists were fined and 220 vehicles impounded
for various offences across the capital, the traffic police
department said.


Motorists caught smoking while driving had to cough up 32
dollars. They also received stern warnings that offenders cited
more than five times would have their licences revoked.


Police said similar fines applied to motorists talking on mobile
phones while driving, as well as for other less-defined offences
loosely bunched under the term "dangerous driving."


The Delhi High Court last month jacked up the fine for speeding
by almost 400 percent to 2,500 rupees (55 dollars) and pegged
penalties for drunken driving at 900 rupees, up from the previous
500 rupees.


"The police were out on the streets in strength at 6:00 am and
this will continue," said H.P.S. Virk, deputy traffic police
commissioner.


City traffic police chief Qamar Ahmed said his department would
also enforce the directives to ensure the measures would succeed
where most past efforts have failed to yield visible results on
the city's 30,000 kilometres (18,600 miles) of roads.


"We also enforced proper lane driving and fined motorists using
pressure (shriek) horns," Ahmed said.


"As many as 1,333 driving licences were today punched and the
special drive to enforce the court order will continue," Ahmed
told AFP.


One motorist labelled the crackdown as "draconian."


"My chauffeur was driving me home from this cocktail (bar) and we
were challaned (prosecuted) for drunken driving," said Vishwa
Nathan, a military liaison officer working for an European
defence company.


"This is absolutely ridiculous and very draconian."


A total of 1,910 people died and 7,970 more were injured in 8,838
accidents on New Delhi streets last year.


In 2006, traffic light violations jumped 6.48 percent while
instances of motorists caught talking on mobile telephones rose
103 percent from the previous year.


Some 4.1 million motorists were penalised last year for traffic-
related offences.

