

Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson insists Roma fans
will be safe when they visit Old Trafford for Tuesday's Champions
League clash.


The quarter-final first leg meeting between the clubs in Rome
last Wednesday was marred by crowd trouble inside and outside the
stadium, prompting United to complain about the treatment of
their supporters at the hands of Italian police.


But while Ferguson admitted he was "appalled" by what he saw, he
insisted there would be no repeat in Manchester.


"We missed a lot of what was shown on here but there have been
one or two photographs I've seen since then and it doesn't look
very nice at all," he added.


"I think everyone was appalled at some of the pictures and I
think UEFA are investigating so we will await their findings. We
hope it's a thorough investigation because that's the only way
you can find these things out.


"I don't anticipate any further problems. I think the security at
Old Trafford is fantastic and I don't think the Roma fans will
have any problems at all. There has never been a history of that,
the security and police are excellent and the Roma fans should
have nothing to fear."


Wayne Rooney believes Cristiano Ronaldo is currently the best
player in the world and identified the winger as the key to
United's hopes of progressing.


The Italian club will visit Old Trafford having established a
slender 2-1 advantage.


But United striker Rooney is convinced his colleagues are capable
of shedding an unwanted club record by overturning a first-leg
deficit for the first time ever in the Champions League.


Ferguson's side have exited the competition on each of the five
previous occasions they have trailed at the halfway stage of a
tie, most recently when they went out to AC Milan two seasons
ago.


Rooney admits United will once again face a stern test against
Italian opposition but claims his Portugese team-mate Ronaldo is
capable of turning the tie on his own.


"When we faced AC Milan a couple of years ago, myself, Cristiano
and a couple of the other players were still really young and we
were still trying to learn the game and get experience," he said.


"It's different playing against Italian teams, it's like a game
of chess really, the game's slower and it's a lot more organised.
Here the game's a lot quicker and there is a lot more end to end
stuff.


"I've only really faced Italian defences twice, against Roma last
week and against AC Milan but with our players and the speed we
have, especially at Old Trafford, if we play the way we can do we
can cause them problems.


"I think since the Milan game, both me and Cristiano have
improved as players and we have matured a lot, especially
Critiano who has been winning games on his own.


"This season he has been unbelievable and at the moment he is by
far the best player in the world and hopefully he can work some
of his magic and get us into the semi-finals."


The defeat in Rome was followed last weekend by a Premiership
reverse against Portsmouth that boosted the domestic title hopes
of United's main rivals Chelseas.


But Ferguson has denied that the back-to-back losses have
increased the pressure on his side and repeated his claim that
Rooney's away goal in Rome has put United on top in the tie, even
though midfielder Paul Scholes will be missing through
suspension.


"I think we are in a good position," the manager said. "Our
attacking impetus will be much stronger and more apparent but of
course we need to perform well and take our chances.


"Of course we will make chances tomorrow but my experience in
some European games is that we have sometimes missed chances,
particularly in the two semi- final ties here. So if we can
create the chances and take a percentage then I think we have a
massive chance."


Louis Saha will join Scholes on the sidelines after failing to
recover from a hamstring injury, although Patrice Evra could
return to the back-four.

