

Peter Fulton roared back into form with a responsible half-
century as New Zealand posted a challenging 263-8 against
debutants Ireland in the World Cup Super Eights match here on
Monday.


The New Zealand opener made a brilliantly-paced 83 on a slow
pitch, just when his team-mates had been struggling for runs
against Ireland's disciplined seam- spin comination.


Fulton, a middle-order batsman opening the innings in the World
Cup, had made only 62 in his last three matches before regaining
form with his sixth half- century which contained nine fours.


He did well to keep his end intact for a long time when wickets
were falling at regular intervals from the other. He put on 54
for the fifth wicket with Jacob Oram, the second-highest stand of
the innings.


It was only a late flourish by wicket-keeper Brendon McCullum
(47) and James Franklin (34 not out) that helped New Zealand
reach a respectable total, with the last three overs yielding 45
runs.


The pair put on 71 for the eighth wicket, with McCullum hitting a
six in the last over that smashed a window-pane in one of the
boxes. Franklin struck one six and three fours in his 22-ball
knock.


Ireland had earlier done extremely well as they never allowed New
Zealand to build a partnership, with seamer Dave Langford-Smith
and off-spinners Kyle McCallan and Andrew White grabbing two
wickets apiece.


Skipper Stephen Fleming (10), Hamish Marshall (16), Scott Styris
(10), Craig McMillan (22) and all-rounder Oram (20) all got
starts, but none could play a long knock.


New-ball bowler Boyd Rankin provived the breakthrough in the
sixth over when he dismissed Fleming, who was caught cutting at
point by William Porterfield.


Langford-Smith then struck twice in the space six overs to put
New Zealand on the back foot, removing Marshall and Styris. He
finished with 2-41 off 10 overs.


New Zealand found runs hard to come by when Irish skipper Trent
Johnston introduced his spinners into the attack, as McCallan and
White kept a tidy line and length on a slow track.


McCallan was rewarded for his discipline when he got rid of
McMillan and well- set Fulton, who was adjudged leg-before. The
off-spinner conceded just 35 in his 10 economical overs.

