

A US State Department delegation on Monday paid a rare visit to a
dissident Buddhist leader who is under "pagoda arrest" in
communist Vietnam, the monk's overseas supporters said.


The reported visit comes as pressure is rising in Washington for
Vietnam, a former US enemy and growing trade partner, to allow
greater religious and political freedoms, following a high-
profile dissident trial late last month.


US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and the
Pacific Eric John visited Thich Quang Do, deputy leader of the
outlawed Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam (UBCV), said a Paris-
based church spokesman.


The 78-year-old monk, who last year won Norway's Rafto human
rights prize, told his visitors Vietnam was repressing pro-
democracy and religious groups, including the UBCV, ethnic
Christian Montagnards and the Hoa Hao group.


"In the wake of Hanoi's ruthless crackdown on democracy movements
today, it is the moment for President Bush to take a firm stand
for religious freedom, human rights and democracy in Vietnam," he
reportedly said.


He also called on the United States to link economic relations
with human rights and use trade and aid to press Hanoi to respect
its international commitments, spokesman Vo Van Ai said in a
statement.


John was joined by US Consul General Seth Winnick for the two-
hour talk at the Thanh Minh Zen Monastery in southern Ho Chi Minh
City, said the UBCV.


It was not immediately clear how the reported visit was
organised. Last month police briefly detained three Norwegians,
including members of the Rafto Foundation, as they tried to visit
Thich Quang Do.


Tensions between Washington and Hanoi have risen recently over
human rights.


The State Department said on March 30 it was "deeply troubled" by
the eight-year jail term of dissident Roman Catholic priest
Father Nguyen Van Ly on charges of spreading propaganda against
the communist state.


US Ambassador Michael Marine last week called on Vietnam to free
several dissidents and open up its political system. He also
invited the wives of several activists to his house, where they
were blocked by police.


The UBCV has been banned since 1981 for refusing to submit to
Communist Party supervision. Patriarch Thich Huyen Quang and his
deputy Thich Quang Do have been under what activists call "pagoda
arrest" since.


Human rights group the Rafto Foundation said it chose to honour
Do because he had "devoted his life to the advancement of justice
and the Buddhist tradition of non-violence, tolerance and
compassion."


Four past recipients of the Rafto prize, including Aung San Suu
Kyi of Myanmar and Jose Ramos-Horta of East Timor, later won the
Nobel Peace Prize.

