

The White House said Monday it was "very concerned" about Iran's
claim it was producing enriched uranium on an industrial scale
and warned against "unacceptable" limits on Tehran's cooperation
with the UN nuclear watchdog.


"We are very concerned about Iran's announcement that they
entered an 'industrial stage' of nuclear fuel production,"
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


"Iran continues to defy the international community and further
isolate itself by expanding its nuclear program, rather than
suspending uranium enrichment. Iran's decision to limit even
further its cooperation with the IAEA (International Atomic
Energy Agency) is unacceptable," he charged.


Johndroe appeared to be referring to lead Iranian nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani's warning that Iran will quit the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty if international pressure on its
enrichment program continues.


"If they pressure us further, we will have no choice but to
reconsider our membership of the NPT as parliament has ruled,"
Larijani said.


He was referring to a law approved by Iran's parliament last year
allowing the government to reduce cooperation with the
International Atomic Energy Agency which conducts inspections of
atomic plants under the treaty.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two packages of
sanctions against Iran over its failure to heed ultimatums from
the world body to suspend uranium enrichment.


"These actions deny the Iranian people the benefits they
otherwise might enjoy under the incentives package offered by the
US, UK, France, Russia, China and Germany. We call on the Iranian
regime to comply with its obligations to the IAEA and UN Security
Council," said Johndroe.


Britain, France, Germany and Russia -- backed by the United
States -- have offered Iran a package of economic and political
incentives if it agrees to freeze sensitive nuclear work.


Tehran denies Washington's charge that its nuclear program is
cover for an atomic weapons quest.

