

A US soldier facing trial in absentia in Italy for shooting dead
an Italian hostage negotiator and wounding a reporter at a road
block in Baghdad said Monday he had no choice but to open fire.


Specialist Mario Lozano told the New York Post in his first major
interview since the 2005 incident that when confronted with the
vehicle moving at speed towards his checkpoint he did what any
other soldier would have done.


"If you hesitate, you come home in a box -- and I didn't want to
come home in a box. I did what any soldier would do in my
position," Lozano said.


"You have a warning line, you have a danger line, and you have a
kill line," he explained. "Anyone inside 100 meters (yards) is
already in the danger zone ... and you've got to take them out."


Italian reporter Giuliana Sgrena, who had just been freed by her
kidnappers, and intelligence agent Nicola Calipari, who had
negotiated her release, were among those in the vehicle when
Lozano opened fire with a machine gun.


Sgrena and a police officer were shot and wounded while Calipari
was killed.


Lozano, from New York City, is to be tried in absentia for
involuntary homicide and attempted homicide by Italian justice
officials next week.


Calipari, who shielded Sgrena during the shooting, was hailed as
a hero, awarded Italy's top bravery award and given a state
funeral.


A US inquiry exonerated Lozano, with US authorities saying that
Calipari's car was travelling too fast, had not slowed down and
that Italian officials had not told them of the operation to free
Sgrena.


Italy said that Calipari's death resulted from a mistake on the
part of the US military and that the checkpoint was manned by
inexperienced troops.


The vehicle had been racing to catch a plane from Baghdad airport
when it came under fire.


Lozano told the Post he had done everything to try to make the
vehicle stop, from flashing a searchlight -- something he said
made "every Iraqi slam on the brakes" -- to shooting into the
ground and then into the vehicle's engine.


Lozano blames Sgrena for the incident, saying the correspondent
for the left- wing newspaper Il Manifesto had failed to ensure
that US forces knew about the vehicle's wherabouts.


"I'm sure her life isn't like mine," he said. "She's famous.
Meanwhile, I've got to live with the fact that a guy got killed
because he didn't comply with orders and I was that guy who
pulled the trigger."

