

Manchester City eased their relegation fears with a 3-1 victory
over hosts Fulham at Craven Cottage on Monday which left them
perilously above the English Premiership drop zone.


It was the resurgent Blues' third straight away win while
slumping Fulham have lost five and won none of their last eight
matches.


Midfielder Joey Barton blasted City's first in the 21st minute
and set up the second for USA midfielder DaMarcus Beasley 36
minutes in. Former England striker Darius Vassell struck their
third goal in the 59th minute.


Fulham's USA defender Carlos Bocanegra scored a 76th-minute
consolation goal.


The result leaves City in 12th place with 40 points, nine above
the drop zone, while the 15th-placed Cottagers are on 35 points,
four points above the relegation places.


The Blues have six games left, while Fulham have just five.


The Cottagers have had a miserable Easter, having also lost 4-1
at Everton on Friday.


The west London side started the brighter. Russia midfielder
Alexei Smertin forced the Blues' Sweden goalkeeper into a
stunning reaction save with a 25-yard strike.


However, City's counter-attacking play caught Fulham out.


The troubled but talented Barton, whose disciplinary problems
have probably prevented him from earning more than his one
England cap, blasted his shot past Finland goalkeeper Antti Niemi
for the first goal, following good work from Belgium forward
Emile Mpenza.


Barton then teed up Beasley, back in the Mancunian side after two
games out, and the on-loan PSV Eindhoven midfielder scored with a
powerful finish.


Niemi pulled off a splendid save before half-time to keep out
full-back Nedum Onuoha's effort following a Michael Johnson free
kick.


Cottagers boss Chris Coleman, who was booed at half-time, then
sent on Canada striker Tomasz Radzinski and Vincenzo Montella, on
loan from Roma, in an attempt to salvage a point.


But the former Italy forward had barely been on the pitch before
Vassell scored his fourth goal of the season.


Mpenza raced away and passed down the right, where defender Liam
Rosenior should have dealt with the ball comfortably.


However, he stumbled instead and Vassell charged through to make
it 3-0.


Bocanegra, playing at centre-half, headed in a Sean Davis corner
for his second goal in two games.


But it was too little, too late to prevent Coleman from being
booed again when the final whistle went on the Thames riverbank.


The defeat leaves the Cottagers once more with plenty of work to
do in the closing stages to ensure their Premiership survival.

