

Rebel parliamentarians in Ukraine broke into their Easter
holidays on Monday to accuse President Viktor Yushchenko of
pressurizing judges to rubber stamp his dissolution of
parliament.


"We see the president's pressure on the constitutional court as
one of the means of legitimatizing the anti-government coup being
carried out by reactionary forces," deputies from the pro-Russian
parliamentary majority said in a resolution, Interfax reported.


The resolution was endorsed by 256 deputies, meeting in an
unscheduled session a week after what they have described as an
illegal presidential decree to dissolve the legislature.


The constitutional court is this week due to consider the
president's decree, which would require early elections for the
450-strong parliament in which pro- Russian forces headed by
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych have a majority.


On the streets outside, anti-presidential demonstrators were
observing an Easter truce, with 1,000 protesters manning camps in
the capital dedicating the day to playing chess and football,
organizers said.


"It is my duty to be here," said Andrei Dyadyuk, a member of
Yanukovych's Regions Party. "But today there are no
demonstrations. We are Orthodox people and we don't organize
public meetings during holidays."


In a combative Easter speech televised late Saturday, Yushchenko
accused his opponents of trying to impose "tyranny" and "managed
democracy" in Ukraine.


"My decision is legitimate and constitutional and there will be
no going back," Yushchenko said in his speech, delivered from
outside the Saint Sophia church in central Kiev.


His rival Yanukovych also issued an Easter message posted on the
government website Sunday in which he expressed confidence that
the crisis "will be successfully resolved through democracy and
supremacy of the law."


The crisis began April 2 when the president ordered the
dissolution of parliament and elections on May 27. This triggered
a defiant response from the pro-Russian prime minister.


Tens of thousands of Yanukovych supporters have protested in the
capital of the former Soviet republic over the past week and
hundreds have kept up a round-the- clock vigil in a tent camp
outside the parliament.


"It's cold on the street but God will keep us warm," pensioner
Nina Pustavoytova from eastern Ukraine said outside the
parliament early Monday. "People who believe in God are here to
defend their rights."


Critics have accused the president of mounting a coup by
illegally cancelling the results of last year's parliamentary
elections deemed fair by international observers.


Yushchenko in turn accuses pro-Moscow forces in parliament, led
by Yanukovych's Regions Party, of acting against the constitution
by paying huge bribes to lure pro-Western deputies to their camp.


The European Union, Russia and the United States have all voiced
concern, without explicitly taking sides.


The crisis comes after months of mounting tensions between
Yanukovych, who favours strong ties with Russia, and Yushchenko,
who came to power in 2005 promising closer relations with the
West.


The two first faced off in 2004 presidential elections initially
granted to Yanukovych, but then deemed fraudulent after mass
protests known as the Orange Revolution.


While the two sides tried to take the high moral ground, there
were signs of cynicism on the streets.


"The Orange Revolution was a moment of unity for the nation,"
said Denis Shevchenko, 25. "Everything that is happening today is
a question of money."


"For me democracy is an empty word which everyone manipulates,"
said protester Andrei Dyadik. "There is no democracy, neither in
Russia nor in Europe. Of the two tyrants, I'd chose those who
speak Russian."

