

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen
Harper on Monday led 90th anniversary commemorations for a key
World War I battle that was also a seminal event in defining
Canadian national identity.


They were to be joined by French Prime Minister Dominique de
Villepin in laying wreaths at the towering monument crowning Vimy
Ridge, north of Arras, which Canadian troops captured in 1917.
More than 3,500 Canadians died.


Some 20,000 people, including 7,000 who travelled from Canada,
ranging from youth groups to military veterans, were expected to
attend.


They included hundreds of high school students were wearing
replica World War I tunics stitched with the name of a soldier
who fought in the conflict.


"The events here 90 years ago were, for our country, a coming of
age," Harper said in a speech Sunday after 300 Canadian soldiers
ended a parade through Arras before thousands waving French and
Canadian flags.


"At the Battle of Vimy Ridge, troops representing all four
divisions of the Canadian Army fought together for the first
time, achieving a spectacular victory that affirmed our national
identity and national character."


The events commemorate a battle that began at 5:30 am on April 9,
1917, when almost 100,000 Canadian soldiers charged in a
snowstorm onto Vimy Ridge, which the German army had heavily
fortified with trenches, barbed wire, artillery and machine-gun
nests.


The offensive was well-prepared with heavy shelling and miles of
tunnels dug to take the attackers nearer to the German lines, but
3,598 Canadian troops were killed and 7,004 were wounded over
four days of fighting as they slowly took control of the
escarpment.


The attack was the main success of the wider Battle of Arras,
involving 23 British and Commonwealth divisions, in which more
than 150,000 allied and 100,000 German troops were killed over
the following weeks.


Though no strategic breakthrough was made, the capture of Vimy
Ridge secured a key vantage point which proved vital in the final
victories of 1918.


The victory also triggered Canadian pride in the courage of its
soldiers and defined a sense of nationhood in the former British
colony.


"In those few minutes I witnessed the birth of a nation,"
Brigadier General Alexander Ross, who commanded the 28th
Battalion at Vimy, said when the huge twin-towered memorial was
unveiled on the battleground in 1936.


"It was Canada from the Atlantic to the Pacific on parade."


A Canadian soldier killed at Vimy Ridge was buried with full
military honours on Saturday.


The body of Private Herbert Peterson was discovered in 2003 and
identified through DNA testing. He was buried in La Chaudiere
cemetery in the shadow of the ridge near Arras at a ceremony
attended by relatives.


Monday's ceremony, including a minute's silence and the
traditional playing of the Last Post, was expected to be given
added poignancy by the deaths Sunday of six Canadian soldiers in
a roadside bomb in southern Afghanistan. It was the deadliest
single attack on NATO in the country this year.


More than 600,000 Canadians fought in World War I (1914-1918) and
some 66,000 died. Only two Canadian veterans of the conflict are
still alive.


The Canadian National Vimy Memorial with its twin pylons towering
30 metres (98 feet) above a sprawling stone platform represents
the solidarity of France and Canada, adorned with carved statues
symbolizing peace, sacrifice and mourning.


Designed by Canadian architect Walter Seymour Allward, it took 11
years to build.


It was not dedicated to military conquest and glory but recalled
the legions who sacrificed their lives.


Ottawa recently spent 20 million dollars (17.4 million US) to
restore it for the 90th anniversary.

