

Herewith a summary of two major US cases announced Monday against
China at the World Trade Organization, on copyright fraud and
barriers to foreign media:


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS (IPR)


-- Despite a recent tightening by China of its rules on IPR
theft, thresholds for criminal prosecution of wholesalers and
distributors of fake goods "appear to effectively permit large-
scale piracy and counterfeiting."


Anyone who produces more than 2,500 disks of movies, music or
computer software is now regarded as a serious offender, down
from the previous cut-off level of 5,000 disks, state Chinese
media reported Friday.


But the US government said these limits remain far too generous.


"The thresholds are so high that they appear to permit pirates
and counterfeiters to operate on a commercial scale," a fact-
sheet issued by the office of US Trade Representative Susan
Schwab argued.


-- The WTO complaint also says that fake goods, if seized by
Chinese customs authorities, too easily end up for sale "when WTO
rules dictate that these goods normally should be kept out of the
marketplace altogether."


Chinese regulations can require customs officers to auction the
goods after removing fake labels, which "appears to be
inconsistent" with China's obligations as a WTO member.


-- And the complaint argues that while awaiting approval by
Chinese censors, foreign media works are routinely faked with no
right of redress for their creators. That also runs foul of WTO
rules.


FOREIGN MEDIA


-- When it joined the WTO in late 2001, China agreed to fully
liberalize trading rights by mid-December 2004, allowing foreign
companies to trade their goods freely within the country.


But according to the US complaint, the approval and distribution
of foreign books, music and films such as Hollywood movies remain
severely restricted. Foreign entertainment must first pass muster
by Chinese censors and then, for the most part, can only be
distributed through state-owned ventures.


-- Schwab's office said: "China's market access restrictions also
encourage the rampant IPR infringement occurring in China.


"The restrictions delay the entry of new products into the
Chinese market and effectively limit the scope and quantity of
established products available in the Chinese market, providing
incentives for pirates to fill the void with their illegal
copies."


WTO PROCESS


-- "The United States sought to engage the Chinese in
negotiations to arrive at a resolution. Unfortunately, those
negotiations, to date, have failed to resolve our concerns," the
fact-sheet said.


-- Once the US complaints are lodged at the Geneva-based WTO on
Tuesday, the two countries will have 60 days to try to iron out
their differences. If they do not reach agreement, Washington can
then demand WTO mediation.


-- If the US case were ultimately upheld by a WTO dispute
settlement panel, the United States could then gain the right to
impose duties and tariffs on Chinese imports. But the process is
likely to be complex and lengthy.

