

Britain's "weakness" in standing up to Iran in the detained
sailors stand-off handed Tehran an improbable victory and left it
dangerously emboldened, former US ambassador to the UN John
Bolton said Monday.


Iran was deliberately probing for allied weaknesses and found
them in abundance, Bolton wrote in a hard-hitting article in the
Financial Times newspaper.


"Against all odds, Iran emerged with a win-win from the crisis:
winning by its provocation in seizing the hostages in the first
place and winning again by its unilateral decision to release
them," wrote the 2005-2006 US ambassador to the United Nations.


The Guardian newspaper reported last week that the Washington
wanted to get involved militarily in cranking up the pressure on
Iran, but was rebuffed by London, which preferred to pursue
diplomatic channels.


Some commentators here have said the United States should learn a
lesson from Britain's handling of the detainees issue in respect
to the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme.


The 15 British sailors, seized in the northern Gulf on March 23,
returned home on Thursday.


But if the outcome of the stand-off with Iran was a success for
British diplomacy, "one hesistates to ask what would constitute
failure," Bolton wrote in the business daily.


He said Iran was testing allied resolve and found that Britain
responded with "not much of a reaction at all."


"This passive, hesitant, almost acquiescent approach barely
concealed the Foreign Office's real objective: keeping the faint
hope alive that three years of failed negotiations on Iran's
nuclear weapons programme would not suffer another, this time
possibly fatal, setback."


The lesson for Iran was that "it probed and found weakness."
Ahmadinejad could now "undertake equal or greater provocations,
confident he need not fear a strong response," Bolton wrote.


"Emboldened as Iran now is, and ironically for engagement
advocates, it is even less likely there will be a negotiated
solution to the nuclear weapons issue, not that there was ever
much chance of one.


"Iran, sensing weakness, has every incentive to ratchet up its
nuclear weapons programme, increase its support to Hamas,
Hezbollah and others and perpetrate even more serious terrorism
in Iraq.


"The world will be a more dangerous place as a result.


"The only thing risen from this crisis is Iranian determination
and resolve to confront us elsewhere, at their discretion,
whether on Iraq, nuclear weapons and terrorism."

