

The United States Monday sharpened trade tensions with China by
announcing a wide-ranging WTO complaint over "rampant" copyright
piracy in the booming Asian giant.


In parallel, the government said it was filing a case at the
World Trade Organization accusing China of restricting the
distribution of foreign music, films and books.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab said the administration
remains committed to dialogue with China, which has been accused
of riding roughshod over US commercial rights in its rapid rise
to prosperity.


But amid a clamor from the Democratic-led Congress to confront
China over its industrial policies, market access and currency
regime, she stressed: "Piracy and counterfeiting levels in China
remain unacceptably high."


At a news conference, Schwab brandished a fake Chinese DVD of the
Ben Stiller hit "Night at the Museum."


"I might note that the film I am holding here is not scheduled
for release in DVD form for almost two weeks, and I would note
the copy reads that it is 'copyright protected'," she said.


Despite official promises of a clampdown in China, fake DVDs,
software, luxury goods, books, auto parts, footwear and even
pharmaceuticals remain freely available across the country,
according to the US government.


The complaint, which will be formally filed at WTO headquarters
on Tuesday, was welcomed as "overdue" by Max Baucus, Democratic
chairman of the US Senate's powerful finance committee.


"Rampant and large-scale piracy and counterfeiting in China have
persisted too long, and China is not penalizing pirates and
counterfeiters," he said.


The National Association of Manufacturers called on China to
remedy the US complaints "as soon as possible," and said the WTO
provided Washington and Beijing the right venue for recourse in
"a mature trade relationship."


The complaint over barriers to foreign media alleges that Chinese
distribution rules "hobble" cultural products, such as books and
Hollywood movies, from reaching the vast audience of the world's
most populous nation.


Schwab added that these products are also "favorite targets for
IPR (intellectual property rights) pirates," leaving legitimate
foreign entertainment shut out of China altogether.


Under the WTO process, the two countries will have 60 days to try
to iron out their differences. If they do not reach agreement,
the United States will then have the right to demand WTO
arbitration.


If the US case were ultimately upheld by a WTO dispute settlement
panel, the United States could then gain the right to impose
retaliatory duties and tariffs on Chinese imports.


Getting tough after years of quiet diplomacy, the United States
took China to the WTO in February in a complaint over industrial
subsidies. And in an unprecedented decision late last month, the
United States announced penalty tariffs on China to offset
government subsidies for a paper product.


US officials have repeatedly said they see WTO arbitration as the
natural evolution of an evolving commercial relationship, a
little over five years after China joined the referee of global
trade.


While launching its WTO actions, the US administration under
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has been pursuing a high-level
dialogue with Beijing on strategic economic matters, a process
that Schwab said would continue.


The US trade deficit with China ballooned to more than 200
billion dollars last year, a yawning imbalance explained in part
by US consumers' voracious appetite for cheap Chinese imports.


But many US lawmakers allege that Chinese government subsidies,
discrimination against foreign companies and a skewed exchange
rate are unfairly fueling the country's export machine.


According to a Congress-appointed panel, China's own data
estimates that counterfeit products account for 15 to 20 percent
of products made in the country, or eight percent of its 2.2
-trillion-dollar economy.


China last Friday tightened its rules on IPR theft, lowering the
threshold for "serious offenders" who will face up to seven years
in jail, state media said.


The US government welcomed that move. "However, wholesalers and
distributors still will be able to operate below high thresholds
without fear of criminal liability."

