

Heavy fighting that left "many" dead erupted Monday in eastern
Chad between government forces and rebels who had crossed the
Sudanese border, a government spokesman said.


At least eight government soldiers and "many" rebels were killed
in the clashes, said spokesman Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor in a
statement.


The fighting came less than a week after government forces bombed
rebel positions in the east of the country, where unrest has
taken off again following a relative calm since February.


"A column of more than 200 vehicles with armed elements attacked
a defence and security forces position this morning at
Amdjerima," said government spokesman Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor in
a statement.


"The defence and security forces fought back with determination
to rout the attackers, who as usual had come from Sudan. The
search goes on," the spokesman added.


He said that 38 rebel vehicles had been destroyed.


Chadian authorities said the rebels were from the Union for
Forces of Democracy and Development of Mahamat Nouri, the Rally
for Democratic Forces, which is led by brothers Tom and Timan
Erdimi and the Chadian National Concord (CNT) of Hassan Saleh al-
Djinedi.


A spokesman for the rebel alliance, reached by satellite
telephone, confirmed the clash, while saying that it was
government forces that attacked and denying a rout.


"There was fighting between government forces and men of the CNT,
but it's over and the CNT is still in control of the area," Maide
Id Moura told AFP.


The CNT last week accused the army of attacking its positions 30
kilometres (20 miles) from the Sudanese border with helicopter
gunships.


The previous weekend, clashes between local groups in the east
resulted in more than 100 deaths, provoking intervention from
Chad's army.


Chad's government accused Sudan's government-backed Janjaweed
militia of involvement in those attacks, but that could not be
confirmed.


Chad and Sudan blame each other for supporting rebels in their
respective countries. Both have refused the deployment of a UN-
mandated force to patrol their border.


"Sudan has not abandoned its sinister project of destabilising
Chad," the government said Monday, calling on the population "to
rally more than ever behind the defence and security forces to
preserve their democratic gains, and guarantee sovereignty and
territorial integrity."


The government statement added that N'djamena "expects the
international community to condemn unequivocally this aggression
against Chad from inside Sudan and take appropriate measures to
force the Sudanese government to abandon its expansionist and
destabilising aims in Chad."

