

Thirteen detainees are on hunger strike at the US military base
in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and are being force-fed through tubes,
the US Navy said Monday.


"Currently, there are 13 hunger strikers at Guantanamo. Two of
the 13 have been on hunger strike since August 2005. Most of the
others began their hunger strike in January or February," navy
Commander Robert Durand said.


He added the group were being fed via tubes, but were otherwise
"in good health."


"The involuntary feeding is not designed to break the hunger
strike, it is a medical procedure to deliver the appropriate
calories and nutrition necessary for good health," he said.


Durand said the start of the hunger strike had coincided with the
trial of Australian terror suspect David Hicks at the remote
military base last month which was attended by a large number of
journalists.


"As soon as the media left, the number of hunger strikers has
been steadily dropping," he added.


He added that launching a hunger strike was "a tactic taught in
the Al-Qaeda training manual ... and is designed to elicit
maximum media attention."


Lawyers for several of the men said however the strike had been
prompted by harsh conditions at a new maximum-security complex to
which about 160 prisoners out of the 385 held at the base have
been moved since December, according to the New York Times.


There have been several hunger strikes at the base since 2002.
They reached a peak in September 2005 when 131 prisoners were
refusing food. Several months later 84 were still on hunger
strike, and by May 2006 the figure stood at 89.


All the hunger strikers are fed by a plastic nasal tube which
directs food through the nostrils into the stomach, in what
military officials said is the "safest" way to ensure prisoners
receive adequate nutrition.


Prisoners however have complained that the procedure is
humiliating and painful.


One detainee, Isa al-Murbati, from Bahrain, told his lawyer that
about 20 prisoners from Camp 6 had launched a hunger strike in
January to protest conditions in the new complex, his lawyer
Joshua Colangelo said Monday.


Murbati also went on hunger strike for six months in 2005, which
he ended after the army began strapping him to a chair to
administer large amounts of liquid food which caused violent
diarrhea while still in the chair.


But Durand denied the prisoners suffered during the procedure to
force-feed them.


"Medically, it is identical to the procedure that is performed in
countless US hospitals thousands of times per day.


"While it is not painful, a local topical anesthetic is offered,
and a small tube provides the calories and nutrition necessary."


Newly released Pentagon documents show that during earlier hunger
strikes, before the use of restraint chairs, some detainees
suffered sharp weight losses, the Times said.


A handful of those prisoners lost more than 30 pounds (13.5
kilograms) in a matter of weeks, according to the report.

