

More than half of the Indian children questioned in a landmark
survey released Monday were physically or sexually abused, which
should be a wake-up call for the nation, a minister said.


The survey of 15,000 children and young adults across the country
was the first attempt by the government to document the extent of
child abuse in India, Minister for Women and Child Development
Renuka Chowdhury told reporters.


"We always say our children are safe, we take good care of them
-- these bad things don't happen here," Chowdhury said.


"We never had any kind of introspection that this is not true."


Two out of three of the 12,446 respondents between the ages of
five and 18 had been physically abused, which included slapping,
kicking or beating with a stick, the study said, in most cases by
parents or teachers.


More than 50 percent had been sexually abused in ways that ranged
from severe, such as rape or fondling, to milder forms of
molestation that included forcible kissing.


The study also interviewed 2,324 young adults between the ages of
18 and 24, almost half of whom reported being physically or
sexually abused as children.


A fifth of the child respondents had experienced severe sexual
abuse, the study said, and in almost 80 percent of the cases the
abuser was a person well known by the child.


Chowdhury said that a culture where children were taught to obey
adults unconditionally and where there was a strong taboo on
talking openly about sex contributed to the problem.


"Quite often they end up being silent victims," she said.


In 70 percent of the cases of sexual abuse, the child told no
one.


The study was conducted in 13 states by Indian non-governmental
group Prayas and backed by the UN's child welfare agency UNICEF
and Save the Children Fund.


Children, chosen at random, were questioned on the street, at
jobs, in schools, in institutions and in their own homes.


Of India's billion-plus people, more than a third are aged under
18.


The study was released three months after police discovered the
bodies of 19 people, mainly children, in a drainage ditch in a
New Delhi suburb who were suspected to have been abducted from a
nearby village over several years.


Indian police have charged a domestic worker, Surinder Koli, with
the rape and murder of the victims.


In March, India's parliament called for new laws to protect
children in the wake of the slaughter, which was termed a
"national shame."

