

Valencia captain David Albelda laid down the gauntlet and said
that his team are prepared to meet Chelsea blow-for-blow in their
Champions League quarter-final second leg on Tuesday.


The Spanish international midfielder, who is no shrinking violet
when it comes to making a crunching tackle or two, acknowledged
at a press conference on Monday that Chelsea will have come
prepared to throw everything at Valencia.


The two teams drew 1-1 at Stamford Bridge last Wednesday, David
Silva's stunning goal away from home giving Valencia a clear
advantage.


"It's going to be quite a battle in the midfield. There could be
a lot of contact," warned Albelda alluding to the anticipated
physical contest, no doubt with himself as one of the main
protagonists.


"Our intention is not to give them any ground because both teams
have got players of great quality and if you have a bad day you
can throw the game away.


"We are not invincible but we are a difficult team to beat and
especially on our own ground. If Chelsea want to get past us then
they are going to have to work very hard and we are going to make
their life very complicated," added Albelda.


"We are not going to keep everyone back, we are going to go
looking for their goal because I think we can do some damage. Our
objective since the start of the season has been clear and that's
to win the Champions League."


Albelda's comment about Valencia's priorities was endorsed by the
decision of Valencia coach Quique Flores to rest seven of his
expected starters against Chelsea in their surprising 1-0 loss at
Athletic Bilbao on Saturday.


Neverthless, the Valencia player had some words of praise for
Flores' opposite number, Chelsea coach Jose Mourinho.


"If he's not the best then he's one of the best coaches in the
world," reflected Albelda on the respect, if not affection, in
which Mourinho is held in Spain.


"He also has a way of motivating his players that is very
individual. Each one can use his weapons how he likes and that's
his right."


History suggests though that Albelda and his team mates will be
happier than Mourinho and his men at the end of Tuesday night.


Valencia haven't lost at home to an English club since Leeds
United won in 1967.


In the 40 years since then, only Liverpool in the 1998 UEFA Cup
have managed a result, a 2-2 draw, that would see Chelsea through
to the semi-finals for the third time in four years.


Chelsea have also won only once in their last 10 visits to Spain
when contesting a European competition while Valencia have not
lost at home in a European competition for four years.


The winner of Tuesday's contest, or perhaps battle, is almost
certain to meet another English side Liverpool.


The five-time European Champions won 3-0 at PSV Eindhoven last
week to as good as see them through to this year's semi-finals.

