

A timeline of the crisis over Iran's nuclear programme:


2002


August: An exiled Iranian opposition group says the Islamic
republic is building underground nuclear facilities.


2003


The United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran
has developed kinds of uranium not needed for peaceful use, but
it does not have positive proof Tehran wants to develop a weapon.


2004


Iran resumes uranium enrichment work but later agrees to suspend
it during talks with Britain, France and Germany.


2005


June: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a hardline populist, is elected
president of Iran. Shortly after he takes office, the country
resumes uranium enrichment.


August: US President George W. Bush makes the first of several
statements refusing to rule out the use of force to make Iran
abandon its nuclear programme.


Tehran rejects a European Union offer of trade and security
incentives if it abandons uranium enrichment.


2006


March: The UN Security Council gives Iran until April 28 to
suspend enrichment, but the deadline passes with no change.


May: The United States makes a major policy shift, offering talks
if Iran suspends uranium enrichment.


July: A new UN Security Council resolution gives Iran a month to
freeze its enrichment activities or face sanctions.


August: Ahmadinejad inaugurates plant to produce heavy water for
a new nuclear research reactor.


October: Iran makes, then withdraws, a proposal to ask France to
supervise enrichment of uranium on its territory.


December: The UN Security Council passes Resolution 1737 imposing
sanctions on Iran for its repeated refusal to cooperate fully
with the IAEA or to suspend uranium enrichment.


2007


January: Tehran says it has decided to block 38 IAEA inspectors


February: IAEA diplomats say Iran has begun installing 3,000
centrifuges to enrich uranium in an underground bunker at Natanz
and prevented UN inspectors from installing surveillance cameras.
Iran denies both allegations.


Ahmadinejad says Iran would be willing to stop its enrichment
programme if other nuclear powers were willing to do the same.
Washington dismisses his remarks.


March: UN Security Council adopts further sanctions and offers
more incentives to end the nuclear standoff.


April: Ahmadinejad marks Iran's first atomic technology day on
April 9 by announcing the production of enriched uranium on an
industrial scale. Iran also says further international pressure
will force it to pull out of nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty.

