

With three teams all but sure of playing in the Super 14 semi-
finals, the last remaining spot appears to be a shoot out between
no less than four teams, with South Africa's Northern Bulls
seemingly the favourites to fill position number four.


The Canterbury Crusaders and Auckland Blues both have 37 log
points and are already sure of playing in the semi-finals, while
the Coastal Sharks are third with 34 points, but the fourth spot
is being hunted by the Waikato Chiefs, Bulls and ACT Brumbies -
all on 27 points, while the Western Force are on 26.


Standing in the way of the Bulls reaching their third straight
semi-final are their countrymen, the Lions, the Blues and the
Queensland Reds.


Heyneke Meyer's Bulls will not only have to win all three matches
to be sure of making the last four, but will also hope their
countrymen can do them a favour in the remaining three rounds of
action in the southern hemisphere inter- provincial competition.


This weekend in Hamilton, the Chiefs host the Sharks and a win
for the South Africans would just about end the Chiefs' chances,
while in Canberra one of the Brumbies and Force are likely to
drop points in the race for fourth place.


Also in Cape Town, a surprise victory for the Western Stormers
over the Blues would open the door for the Sharks to move up to
second on the points table, while further enhance the Bulls'
chances of securing their playoff spot.


If the Bulls though are to make it three semi-finals in a row -
following on their appearances against the Crusaders last season
and their defeat to the Waratahs in 2005 - they have to win their
remaining games instead of bank on other results going their way.


They face a tricky encounter in Johannesburg this weekend against
their neighbours, the Lions, who have enjoyed a rather good time
of it against the Pretoria team in recent seasons. The 60km trip
down the N1 highway to face a team that has beaten the Crusaders,
Highlanders and Hurricanes at Ellis Park won't be easy.


But Bulls coach Meyer believes his side could be just as
destructive at Ellis Park as they usually are at Loftus Versfeld
where they beat the Stormers 49-12 last weekend.


"We showed against the Stormers what it means to us to play in
front of our own fans," said Meyer.


"Loftus Versfeld brings the best out of the players, but having
said that, Ellis Park is like a second home to us. We know we'll
get plenty of support in Johannesburg."


One of the Bulls' former stars, lock Geo Cronje is set to make
his debut for the Lions this weekend after an absence from the
game for two years, while his younger brother Jacques who joined
from the Bulls at the start of the year, is sure to play. Former
Lions players Bryan Habana and Wikus van Heerden have been stars
in the Bulls team this season.


The real test for the Bulls, however, will come after this
weekend when the Blues visit Loftus Versfeld.


Meyer and his team will probably be bargaining on picking up five
log points in their final match of the round-robin stage against
the bottom-placed Reds, so it will be the match against the Blues
which may decide their Super 14 fate.


Both teams will have a better idea then what they need to do to
finish where on the points table because the Blues are not
guaranteed of ending in the top two to host a home semi-final.
They meet the Western Force in Perth in their final game.

