

The dollar languished at a near 15-year low against the British
pound and a two- year trough versus the euro in Asian trade
Wednesday as the market bet on further hikes in European interest
rates, dealers said.


The pound sterling firmed to 2.0074 dollars in Tokyo morning
trade from 2.0063 in New York late Tuesday, when it had topped
2.0 dollars for the first time since 1992 after unexpectedly
strong British inflation data.


The euro gained to 1.3575 dollars from 1.3564, just shy of
Monday's high of 1.3595, which was the strongest since December
2004.


Speculators rushed to buy the European currencies in anticipation
of rising returns on assets in the eurozone and Britain, dealers
said.


"The difference between the economic performances of Europe and
the US is driving currency trading," said Commerz Bank treasurer
Ryohei Muramatsu.


"Investors are taking advantage of widening interest rate
differentials. While data on the US economy is patchy the
strength of the European economies stands out," he added.


The dollar eased to 118.71 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 118.90
in New York late Tuesday. The euro slipped to 161.11 yen from
161.29.


The dollar was hit by softer-than-expected core inflation data
for March which prompted renewed speculation that the US Federal
Reserve may lower interest rates later this year, dealers said.


In contrast, stronger-than-expected British inflation data raised
expectations of another interest rate rise by the Bank of England
while the euro was buoyed an upbeat reading of German investor
confidence.


Dealers said they expect the European Central Bank and the Bank
of England to raise their key lending rates at least once more to
keep a lid on price pressures.


In the United States, the key official lending rate is 5.25
percent while in the eurozone it is 3.75 percent and in Japan
just 0.5 percent.


Speculators have been taking advantage of Japan's cheap credit to
raise funds to invest in higher yielding assets elsewhere, the
so-called carry trade.


The dollar was hit by news that US consumer prices rose by a
smaller than expected 0.6 percent in March, while core consumer
prices were up a tepid 0.1 percent.


"The data doesn't alter the picture markedly -- core inflation
remains elevated on an historical basis and upside risks still
exist," according to Commonwealth Bank senior economist Michael
Workman.


"But the fact that the monthly increase was below trend certainly
buys the Federal Reserve time. If this continues in the coming
months, it will help the Fed relax somewhat on the inflation
front," he added.


Meanwhile business confidence in Germany rose to the highest
level for 10 months in April as growth of the eurozone's biggest
economy continued to gather momentum, the ZEW research institute
reported.

