

As global concern over climate warming mounts, a new generation
of "green TV" programmes touching on environmental issues and
green living is capturing prime- time viewing slots around the
world.


The dawning of the "green" era and talk about how the TV, video
and Internet industries can keep environmental issues in the
public eye was at the forefront at this year's five-day
broadcasting and audiovisual trade show, MIPTV/MILIA, one of the
world's largest such events.


"Green TV is prime-time TV now. There has been a huge increase in
green programmes and not just in documentaries," Jo Fox, head of
media for Britain's government body The Environment Agency, told
AFP.


After Al Gore's Oscar-winning "The Inconvenient Truth," British
TV documentary "Climate Change: Britain Under Threat" drew 4.8
million viewers when it aired in January, Fox said.


But TV needs to move beyond documentaries to produce more
entertaining shows that keep green issues in the public eye, a
panel of experts meeting in this Riviera city said.


Such programmes are already in the making.


The influential US Sundance Channel, co-founded by actor and
director Robert Redford, this week launched a new three-hour
weekly prime-time series on ecology and "green" living called
"The Green" which it hopes will eventually travel beyond the
United States.


"'The Green' series aims to take a lively approach to many of the
biggest environmental issues facing the world today," Sundance's
Lynne Kirby told AFP. "The danger is that green TV could feel
like "good for you TV."


"We are trying to keep it as aspirational and solution-based as
possible," Kirby added.


The need to make such programmes as entertaining as possible was
also emphasized by experts attending the trade show.


"We need to think about formats that can say something about
green issues without being preachy and without losing their
entertainment value," said Johan Tuyaerts, who heads up Belgium's
Sultan Sushi production company.


Tuyaerts has already launched a reality format entitled "High
Tension" where a normal family have to live for a week using only
half the electricity they normally consume. That becomes all the
more challenging when they face hosting a fashion show and other
events.


Fox believes these formats are the right way to reach a mass
audience.


Green issues are also being worked into children's programmes,
DIC Entertainment's Robby London said.


And aside from traditional TV, the Internet and broadband TV are
also playing their part in airing environmental concerns.


A new broadband TV channel, green.tv, developed with the United
Nations Environmental Programme and Greenpeace, is already
gaining in popularity, founder Ade Thomas said here this week.


Thomas pointed out that green.tv's video climate-change podcast
is among the most popular podcasts in its category on iTunes.


The channel's user-generated focus encourages users to view and
even post environmental videos of their own, thus aiming to
engage people to act, Thomas said.


Among the slew of green-themed programmes and documentaries on
offer to TV and digital buyers in town for this week's trade show
are the big budget "Earth From Above" documentary series on the
world's most pressing environmental challenges, inspired by
French photographer and hot-air balloonist Yann Arthus-Bertrand.


Other new documentaries to hit TV screens in the coming months
include "Ocean," a four-part multi-media project exploring the
role of oceans in people's lives as well as a mini-fiction
series, "Flood," about storms and high seas in the Thames that
threaten to drown out London.


But whether environmental issues will remain high on the agenda
over time is another question, said the BBC's Phil Dolling.


"I've seen fickleness in audiences a lot in the past," he
cautioned. "Look what happened with AIDS. It's difficult to get
prime-time programming on that now."

