

The United States and its NATO allies hold Thursday their first
high-level talks with Russian officials aimed at easing Moscow's
fears about US plans to build part of a missile shield in Europe.


Representatives from the 26 NATO allies will try to narrow their
differences over the plan -- to include two radar systems and a
missile interceptor bank -- during talks Thursday morning at
alliance headquarters in Brussels.


In the afternoon, high-ranking Russian officials will lay out
Moscow's objections to the shield and be further briefed on it by
US experts, NATO officials and diplomats say.


"It's only the beginning of a first real exchange of views," one
diplomat told AFP, on condition of anonymity, adding that "it is
too early to expect any decisions."


"Thursday's meetings could help restore confidence among us,
particularly with Russia, but also ease German concerns," the
diplomat said.


But he warned: "If things haven't cooled down after these
meetings, there could be a danger of more clearly marked
divisions among the allies."


The United States announced in January it had begun negotiations
on installing a missile interceptor bank in Poland, a radar
system in the Czech Republic plus an early-warning radar
somewhere in the Caucasus region.


Washington maintains that the system would not only protect the
United States but also many of its European allies against "rogue
threats" from countries like Iran.


But Russia is ruffled by the idea that its old Cold War foe would
set this up in its back yard and has accused Washington of hiding
its real intentions, trying to start another arms race, and
threatened to retaliate.


Germany is demanding closer consultation with Moscow but is also
concerned that parts of southern Europe -- Bulgaria, Romania,
Greece and Turkey -- would be exposed outside the shield,
expected to be fully operational in 2013.


"The Germans don't know clearly yet what they really want, but
they are obviously convinced that NATO should play a role in it
all," the NATO diplomat said.


In the latest sign of Washington's efforts to assuage those
fears, US officials presented Russia Tuesday with "new ideas" for
bilateral cooperation between them on missile defence in general.


Another NATO diplomat noted that Washington wants to move quickly
to get the project off the ground before US President George W.
Bush steps down next year.


"As for the Americans, they want to go fast and get the ball
rolling before Bush's mandate ends. So they are ready for
concessions, as long as the main thrust of the plan is kept," he
said.


But despite the apparently conciliatory US moves, Russia was
pessimistic its concerns will be addressed.


"We hope, although I will say sincerely that I am not optimistic,
that Washington will listen to our analyses and worries," Igor
Ivanov, head of the Russian national security council, said
Tuesday.


A senior Russian diplomat, Alexander Grushko, said separately
that Russia intended to have serious talks with NATO foreign
ministers in Norway next week on the missile scheme and the
alliance's expansion into eastern Europe.


"We are counting on a deep and serious discussion in Oslo
concerning all aspects of the relationship between Russia and
NATO," he told Interfax news agency.


The dispute has accelerated debate at NATO about its own missile
plans.


A study for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization has found that
there is a possible missile threat to the allies and that they
have the technical means to counter it. Little concrete action
has been taken since its release in June.

