

Australia on Wednesday announced plans to swap its detained
boatpeople with those held by the United States, a move
immediately denounced as "bizarre" by rights groups and
opposition politicians.


The deal would see mainly Asian refugees intercepted on their way
to Australia considered for resettlement in the US, while Cuban
and Haitian asylum-seekers hoping to live in the US could be
despatched to Australia.


The exchange would involve boatpeople held by Australia on the
remote Pacific island of Nauru and refugees held by the US at its
naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, said Immigration Minister
Kevin Andrews.


Australia and the US shared a similar problem with boatpeople
breaching their international borders, said Andrews, who signed
an agreement on the deal with the US on Tuesday.


"Some, for example, are held at the Guantanamo Bay naval base --
not the prison -- and those cases, the Cubans and Haitians, if
they've got genuine refugee claims, the United States might say
to us, 'Would you consider settling some of these people?' and we
would give consideration to it," he said.


"Equally, we might say we have people that have sought to
illegally enter Australia who have a refugee claim and we could
say to the United States, 'Would you consider settling them?'."


Prime Minister John Howard said the scheme would deter boatpeople
seeking asylum from attempting to come to Australia.


"It will drive home the point that this country will not
compromise in relation to illegal immigration," he told ABC
radio.


Howard said the exchange would not involve large numbers of
refugees and would only happen on a case-by-case basis.


But opposition politicians and refugee rights groups slammed the
scheme.


"If you are in one of the refugee camps around the world, there
is no more attractive destination than to think you can get a
ticket to the USA," Labor Party spokesman Tony Burke said.


"What John Howard is doing is saying to the people around the
world: if you want to get to the US, the way to it is to hop on a
boat and go to (Australia's) Christmas Island."


Greens Senator Kerry Nettle said the plan could encourage more
boatpeople to make the treacherous crossing to Australia.


"It's a very bizarre suggestion being put forward by the Howard
government," she said. "I think that a shortcut for a Green Card
into the United States is actually going to encourage asylum-
seekers."


Refugee advocates said the deal was designed to prop up
Canberra's "Pacific Solution" under which boatpeople are
prevented from landing on the Australian mainland and sent to
Pacific islands until their applications are processed.


"It's a ridiculous and quite bizarre refugee swap which really
defies logic," David Manne, of the Refugee and Immigration Legal
Centre in Melbourne, told AFP.


"It does not relieve Australia of its protection obligations to
refugees, which, in sending them to Nauru, it clearly violates."


Andrews defended the scheme, saying Australia needed to cooperate
with other nations if international people-smuggling was to be
stopped.


"We're talking with other countries because this is not a problem
that Australia has in isolation," he said.


"It's a problem that many countries around the world share and
that's why we're trying to find regional, if not global,
solutions."


Canberra has vowed to crack down on people smugglers who risk the
lives of their passengers, often by travelling in unseaworthy
vessels, to land within Australia's vast borders.


The number of boatpeople arriving here has been greatly reduced
following the introduction of stringent immigration rules --
including the once mandatory detention of all illegal arrivals --
in 2001.

