

Oil is both Nigeria's major revenue earner and the source of many
of its economic, social and political woes, observers said as the
country heads for presidential and legislative elections this
weekend.


"Oil is a good thing but all the problems come from the
management of the oil funds," chief G.E. Mabiaku, an elder from
the southern oil town of Warri, told AFP.


Nigeria, Africa's largest petroleum producer and the world's
sixth exporter, pumps 2.6 million barrels of crude daily from the
expanse of swamps and creeks that makes up the Niger Delta.


Perversely it is this very abundance of oil that has hurt the
rest of Nigeria's economy.


Successive governments, dazzled by money, have neglected both the
manufacturing sector and agriculture.


As oil production has risen, the rest of the economy has slumped
and the country is increasingly dependent on imports, both of
agricultural produce and manufactured goods.


Not only has oil resulted in the collapse of other sectors of the
economy, but its proceeds have been fought over and misspent.


"The problem with Nigeria as a major oil exporter did not start
today. It has been with us since 1956 when oil was discovered at
Oloibiri," environmental campaigner and Niger Delta native Oronto
Douglas told AFP.


"The advent of oil was a celebration. With it came petro dollars
which have been squandered by successive governments at the
expense of majority of the people," he said.


"Nigeria has made around 400 billion dollars from oil but what
can it show for that in terms of development? Our common wealth
has been looted. Go to the Niger Delta, there is mass poverty,
anger and frustration," he said.


The delta, a swathe of creeks and swamps and the size of the
whole of Scotland, is home to Nigeria's multi-billion-dollar oil
resources, but the vast majority of its inhabitants live on less
than one dollar a day.


Douglas said Nigeria made vast sums of money between May 1999
when Olusegun Obasanjo came to power, ending almost 16 years of
military rule, and the present.


Lagos lawyer and rights activist Gani Fawehinmi agreed.


"The government has made so much, due to the rising price of
crude in the international market, that it has saved about 45
billion dollars in foreign currency reserves," he told AFP.


Rather than spend the money on education, health and
infrastructure, Fawehinmi said Obasanjo "has saved it for those
who will steal it".


Several audits, including an independent one of early 2006, have
revealed serious shortcomings in the management of Nigeria's
petro dollars.


Disputes over the distribution of the country's oil wealth have
led to waves of violence in the Niger Delta where local people
say they are getting a poor deal -- all the environmental
pollution of the oil industry but no more revenue than the other
non oil-producing states of the federation.


Since the start of 2006 this violence has taken a turn that has
jeopardized oil production in Nigeria, cutting crude output by as
much as 25 per cent.


Armed groups have stepped up their campaign of violence against
the oil industry, kidnapping well over 100 foreign oil workers,
sometimes to make their demands heard and sometimes just to make
ransom money.


Unrest in the Delta is not new. It is 12 years since activist Ken
Saro-Wiwa was executed along with eight of his fellow Ogonis
after their campaigns against environmental degradation
infuriated the then military government.


Labour leader Dele Dada sees the Niger delta problems extending
into the post- Obasanjo era.


"The in-coming administration has to accord utmost priority to
the Niger Delta question if it does not want to be bogged down in
this same crisis," he said.


The financial incentives to tackle the problem are powerful.
Nigeria is estimated to have lost some 570 billion naira (around
4.4 billion dollars, 3.5 billion euros) in 2006 oil revenue alone
because of disruptions to production.

