

China's top police officials have urged a "strike hard" anti-
crime campaign ahead of a key party congress and next year's
Olympics and for social unrest to be tackled before it escalates,
state press said Wednesday.


Maintaining social stability and order would remain a top police
priority until the 2008 Games, the China Police Daily said in a
report on a high-level meeting of law enforcement officials that
ended Tuesday.


"We must strike hard at every type of criminal activity that
draws a strong response from the people and endangers the life
and property of the people," said Luo Gan, the Communist Party's
point man on police work, according to the paper.


In recent years, China has frequently launched "strike hard"
campaigns, which often target particular types of crimes such as
organised crime and drug trafficking and are characterized by
widely publicised police action and harsh sentences.


Luo also urged the establishment of a new system to boost social
stability ahead of a five-yearly party congress that is expected
to take place in Beijing late this year and usher in a new top
leadership around President Hu Jintao.


"We need to ... set up a new system with comprehensive resources
to strengthen and raise our ability to manage society," Luo said.


China has witnessed a rising number of protests in recent years,
especially as the gap between rich and poor has widened during
breakneck economic growth. Many of the protests are linked to
land use rights, the government has said.


According to the Ministry of Public Security, in 2005 there were
87,000 reports of protests, officially termed "mass incidents",
up by 6.6 percent on 2004 and 50 percent on 2003.


On Wednesday, Vice Minister of Police Liu Jinguo said the number
of "mass incidents" in 2006 was down 16.5 percent from the
previous year, Xinhua news agency said.


"We must resolve disputes at the basic level and nip them in the
bud before they can grow, we must do our utmost to prevent and
reduce the occurrence of mass incidents," the Police Daily quoted
Zhou Yongkang, minister of police, as saying at the meeting.

