

South Korea will start talks with the European Union early next
month on forging a free trade agreement, a senior official said
Wednesday.


"The two sides are now taking their final steps ... and I think
talks will begin during the first 10 days of next month," Kim
Han-Soo, head of the free trade bureau at the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Trade, told a radio programme.


After 10 months of tough bargaining, South Korea early this month
sealed a free trade pact with the United States which scraps
tariffs on thousands of items and will boost commerce by billions
of dollars a year.


Kim said a deal with the EU may be easier since both sides are
likely to propose "many exceptions" in agricultural goods. Seoul
managed to exclude its politically sensitive rice crop from the
US deal.


Prime Minister Han Duck-Soo said a successful deal would give
Europe a  "good opportunity" to gain a bridgehead in Northeast
Asia.


"In terms of both trade and investment, a South Korea-EU free
trade agreement could generate significant economic benefits for
the two sides," Han said.


He was speaking at a meeting with South Korean and Italian
business leaders attended by visiting Italian Prime Minister
Romano Prodi.


Han called for Italy's "aggressive support" to successfully
conclude a deal with Europe.


Asia's third-largest economy and the EU have been holding
preliminary talks for about a year. Two-way annual trade is worth
71 billion dollars compared to 78 billion dollars between Seoul
and Washington.


The state-funded Korea Institute for International Economic
Policy has forecast that an agreement with the EU would help
South Korea expand gross domestic product by more than two
percent in the short-term.


Opinion polls earlier this month showed two out of every three
South Koreans support the free trade deal with the United States,
along with more than 80 percent of big companies.


But farmers and other workers who fear for their jobs, along with
activists, staged a series of occasionally violent protests
during the negotiations.


Police said thousands were expected to gather in central Seoul
later Wednesday in memory of a taxi driver who burnt himself to
death in protest at the talks with the US.


They warned there is a possibility the demonstration may turn
violent.

