

At least 32 workers were killed and two injured Wednesday when
they were engulfed by molten steel at a metal factory in
northeast China, the government said.


The accident was triggered when a steel ladle, with a capacity of
30 tonnes of liquid steel, sheared off from the blast furnace,
spilling molten metal onto the factory floor some three metres
(three yards) below.


The molten steel then engulfed an adjacent room where all the
victims were gathered for a routine shift change, the State Work
Safety Administration said in a report.


Rescuers were unable to get closer because of the intense heat of
the liquid metal, it added.


The accident happened early in the day in a workshop at the
Qinghe Special Steel Corporation in Tieling city in Liaoning
province, which is a centre of heavy industry.


It was unclear how many people were working at the time of the
accident, or whether the workers in the room were ending or
beginning their shifts, or both.


Two machine operators were also injured.


The administration said an undisclosed number of "responsibles"
were being investigated.


A steel company official said police had locked down the factory,
usual practice in China when criminal investigations are launched
into industrial accidents.


The safety administration said the factory employed some 300
workers, while the government-controlled Xinhua news agency said
the plant was relatively new, established in 1987, and employed
650 workers.


Last year the factory produced 70,000 tonnes of steel, earning
300 million yuan (38.9 million dollars) in sales and hoped to
increase production to 120,000 tonnes this year, the safety
administration report said.


"The provincial and city leaders have arrived to direct the
aftermath," an official at the steel company's office told AFP by
phone.


"The whole area has been blocked off by the police, but we're
still working in the office. Obviously we are all in a bad mood
now."


The official said it was too early to determine the cause of the
accident.


Industrial accidents occur frequently in China with more than
15,000 work place fatalities recorded in 12,800 mishaps at mines,
companies and factories in 2005, according to government figures.


Currently 47 miners are missing following three mine accidents
this week in the nation's dangerous mining industry.

