

Along with shock and sadness, fears of a racial backlash were
uppermost in South Koreans' minds as news sank in Wednesday that
a compatriot was to blame for the US university massacre.


"I was shocked and dismayed," said Park Ha-Seok, a day after US
police named South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui, 23, as
responsible for the shooting spree which left himself and 32
others dead at Virginia Tech.


"Even if this is an individual case committed by a sick person,
everybody does not see things rationally," Park, a 50-year-old
insurance company manager, told AFP.


"Some crazy guys like KKK (the white supremacist Ku Klux Klan)
might take it out on other Koreans. This might also raise voices
for the US government to tighten controls on immigration."


Civil servant Lee Young-Seok said he was "so stunned" by the
killer's nationality. "I know there are a lot of South Korean
students in the US and I'm now really concerned about their
safety," he said.


"As a Korean I felt somewhat ashamed."


Hwang Jae-Eun, a 31-year-old postgraduate student, told Yonhap
news agency the report "took my breath away."


"I express my deep condolences for those killed," Hwang said. "I
don't know why he committed such a crime but I'm worried this
tragedy will bring a curse to all Koreans."


Kim Yeong-Ok, 32, said she fears retaliation against Korean
students and their parents in the United States.


"I hope the government will take extra caution to calm down the
Korean-American community in confusion and shock, and prevent
possible damage to other Koreans," she said.


Politicians also fretted that the incident may damage ties with
the US, South Korea's main ally.


"I express my deep sorrow for the school officials and students
killed in the shootings and their family members," said Kang Jae-
Sup, chairman of the cvonservative Grand National Party.


"I also hope this incident will not cause a crack in South Korea-
US ties, and the government should also work out measures for the
safety of Korean students and residents in the US just in case."


Chung Se-Kyun, chairman of the pro-government Uri Party, said he
could not contain his shock and sorrow.


"These kinds of incidents can stoke various kinds of worries, and
the disturbance should be put under control as quickly as
possible."


South Koreans live in a low-crime society which bans private
possession of guns. Some questioned how Cho could acquire
firearms.


"At first, I was appalled at the magnitude of the mass killing.
And then I was shocked all the more and felt ashamed as the
killer was identified as a South Korean," said Kim In-Sook, a 52
-year-old mother of two students attending universities in
Seattle.


"I am afraid Korea's image might be damaged," she told AFP by
phone from Seattle. "My Korean friends and I are all concerned
about the aftermath of this tragedy. We tell our kids to be on
alert.


"I think the US government must tighten control on guns. I don't
understand how a young student like Cho can freely buy such
terrible weapons."

