

South Koreans expressed shock, shame and fear Wednesday as they
came to terms with the news that the gunman in the US university
massacre was a compatriot.


Civil servant Lee Young-Seok told AFP he was "so stunned" by news
of the killer's nationality. "I know there are a lot of South
Korean students in the US and I'm now really concerned about
their safety.


"As a Korean I felt somewhat ashamed," Lee said.


Officials and ordinary people alike expressed fears of a backlash
against the millions of ethnic Koreans who live in the United
States, Seoul's closest ally since South Korea was founded in
1948.


President Roh Moo-Hyun, who issued two condolence messages
overnight expressing "indescribable shock", held an emergency
meeting of senior aides and would issue a third statement of
sympathy later in the day, a spokesman said.


The government will work out measures to prevent any backlash
against Koreans in the United States, another presidential
official said.


US police say Cho Seung-Hui, a resident alien and student at
Virginia Tech, carried out the shooting massacre of 32 people
there before committing suicide on Monday.


South Korean newspapers carried front-page stories about the
tragedy but the news of the shooter's nationality broke too late
for there to be much comment.


"We hope that this tragic incident will not serve as an excuse
for discrimination and prejudice against South Korean and other
Asian people," said Hankyoreh newspaper, the only one to carry an
editorial.


Hwang Jae-Eun, a 31-year-old postgraduate student, told Yonhap
news agency the report "took my breath away."


"I express my deep condolences for those killed," Hwang said. "I
don't know why he committed such a crime but I'm worried this
tragedy will bring a curse to all Koreans."


Others expressed hope the massacre would not spark off racial
prejudice or retaliation.


Cho and his family left in 1992 for the United States, where his
parents run a dry cleaning shop. Yonhap said they had been
hospitalised with shock.


A motive had yet to be established but investigators told a South
Korean embassy official it might involve a former girlfriend.


Cho was an undergraduate student in his senior year majoring in
English who lived on campus. His residence was in Centreville,
Virginia.


He was among some 460 students from Korea in undergraduate and
graduate programmes at Virginia Tech, one of whom was slightly
injured in the shooting spree.


Kwon Tae-myun, consul-general at the South Korean embassy, urged
compatriots to stay calm.


"This is a crime that has greatly shocked US society," Yonhap
quoted him as saying.


"But this is a private, individual act and is not related to any
race or country. Korean-Americans should understand it as such
and react in a calm way."

