

China on Wednesday joined a small group of elite nations capable
of running high speed trains although the majority of the
locomotive technology is actually imported.


China began running 140 new trains at speeds of 200 kilometres
(125 miles) per hour after several months of testing the
locomotives at normal speeds throughout the country, official
Xinhua news agency reported.


The first train left Shanghai station at 5:38 am, bound for
neighbouring Suzhou, a distance of about 80 kilometres, it said.


The number of high-speed trains will increase to 257 by the end
of this year.


With speeds of 200 to 250 kilometres per hour, the bullet trains
will expand national railway passenger capacity by 18 percent, or
an addition of 340,000 seats a day, alleviating ticket shortages,
especially during holidays.


However, only 6,003 kilometres (3,720 miles) of track will be
able to accommodate the new fast trains, with most locomotives
being forced to top out at 160 kilometres on 14,000 kilometres of
inadequate track.


On another 22,000 kilometres of track trains will be forced to
chug along at 120 kilometres per hour.


Nevertheless by 2020, China hopes 13,000 kilometres of track will
be able to handle its bullet trains.


China's vice minister of railways Hu Yadong lauded the
achievement of what China has called its home-grown technological
success.


"That length exceeds the total amount of rail lines capable of
accommodating trains at that speed in nine European countries,"
said Hu.


"And raising the speed to 200 kilometres per hour on so much
track in only one move is also rare in the world."


China, home to the globe's fourth-largest economy, is keen to
show off the new bullet trains as evidence that it can develop
its own technology in key sectors, and is not simply where the
world comes to assemble products.


However, the trains are mainly built abroad on the basis of
technology transfer agreements with industry heavy-hitters such
as Japan's Mitsubishi-Kawasaki, Canada's Bombardier, German giant
Siemens and France's Alstom.

