

South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun said Tuesday a banking row
holding up North Korea's nuclear disarmament is almost settled
and the communist state will honour its commitments.


North Korea should have shut down and sealed its nuclear reactor
by April 14 under a six-nation deal reached in February. The
deadline slipped due to delays in freeing up 25 million dollars
in its funds frozen in Macau.


"The February 13 agreement reached at the six-party talks will be
implemented," Roh said after a summit with visiting Italian Prime
Minister Romano Prodi.


"A technical problem has unexpectedly occurred ... but the
problem has almost been resolved," he said, referring to the bank
dispute. "The agreement will not be nullified by the problem."


A South Korean government delegation meanwhile flew to Pyongyang
Wednesday for economic talks, with Seoul's possible rice aid and
other business projects on the agenda.


Some local news reports say the annual aid of 400,000 tonnes of
rice may not be pledged unless the North shuts down Yongbyon
before the economic meeting ends Saturday.


Officials have said they will urge the North to start
denuclearising but have not said if the issue will be linked to
rice.


"Despite various difficulties, I will do my best to agree
smoothly on pending issues to improve inter-Korean relations,"
said Seoul's vice economic minister and chief delegate Chin Dong-
Soo.


South Korea suspended the regular annual aid after the North's
missile tests last July. Relations worsened further after its
October nuclear test but improved when the North returned to the
nuclear disarmament talks.


The United States, China, the two Koreas, Japan and Russia
reached the deal under which the North should disable its nuclear
programmes in exchange for a million tons of fuel oil or
equivalent aid, plus security and diplomatic benefits.


Under the first phase it was supposed by last Saturday to have
shut down and sealed Yongbyon, which produces the raw material
for plutonium to make bombs, in the presence of UN atomic
inspectors.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation
since 2005.


The United States said the money was made available last week.


But there has been no word on when the cash transfer will be made
nor notification of when North Korea will begin shutting down the
reactor.


Seoul's intelligence service said Tuesday that US satellites had
spotted unusual activity around Yongbyon. News reports said
Pyongyang may be preparing to shut it down.

