

France's film glitterati, hip-hop artists, rockers and sports
celebrities are lending some of their star power to the main
contenders in the race for the presidency.


The grande dame of cinema, Jeanne Moreau, who won international
acclaim with her role in Jean-Jacques Truffaut's "Jules et Jim",
is backing Socialist Segolene Royal, familiarly known as "Sego."


Blockbuster actor Gerard Depardieu says he will vote for
rightwing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy, or "Sarko", as the "only
able politician, who really works and does the job."


Rocker Johnny Hallyday, the French Elvis, has made several high-
profile appearances with Sarkozy, the 52-year-old former interior
minister who supported his controversial decision to go into tax
exile in Switzerland.


Support from showbiz and sports personalities is nothing new in
French presidential campaigns, but it has reached new heights in
the current race as candidates seek to finetune their image ahead
of the first round of voting on Sunday.


"If your appeal is lacking among young voters, having young stars
backing you can without a doubt be of help," commented Marc
Fourny, the chief editor of Gala celebrity magazine.


Fourny said star-chasing was symptomatic of the Americanisation
of French politics and drew a parallel with the Hollywood frenzy
surrounding Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.


Royal, who has made jobs for France's youth a key plank of her
campaign, has been seen grooving on television to the music of
hip-hop star Diam's, whose songs blast "Sarko le demago" (Sarkozy
the demagogue).


The 53-year-old Socialist candidate has also turned up at a Paris
comedy club to hear one her most enthusiastic supporters, Jamel
Debbouze, who starred in the Oscar-nominated film "Indigenes" and
"Amelie".


Sarkozy may have been hoping to smooth over his tough-guy
reputation in the high-immigrant suburbs with the support of
rapper Doc Gyneco.


Doc Gyneco, who even wrote a book earlier this year entitled
"Great Minds Think Alive: Sarkozy and Me", was arrested for drunk
driving in January and has not been seen in Sarkozy's circle of
celebrity friends since.


A long-distance runner and football fan, Sarkozy at the weekend
was joined by football stars David Ginola and Basile Boli, tennis
champion Nathalie Tauziat and taekwondo medal holder Pascal
Gentil at a campaign event where he promised to put more sports
programmes in schools.


But French football star Lilian Thuram, who plays for Barcelona,
has slammed Sarkozy for holding "a racist discourse" after he
proposed the creation of a ministry for immigration and national
identity.


Former tennis champion-turned-singer Yannick Noah, one of
France's best-loved celebrities, has said he will vote for Royal
and warned that Sarkozy as president would be a disappointment to
children of immigrants, like Noah.


"I would be deeply disappointed if Nicolas Sarkozy won, for
myself, for all immigrant workers, for all the people who are
forced every day to prove that they are French, even if they were
born in France," said Noah, whose father is from Cameroon and
mother is French.


Among lesser known candidates, Communist Revolutionary League
Olivier Besancenot may have been outshined by the support of
British filmmaker Ken Loach, who won the top prize at the Cannes
film festival last year for "The Wind that Shakes the Barley."


Loach praised Besancenot, a 33-year-old postman, for opposing
privatisation in France which he said had ruined Britain's
transport, health and education services and said the radical
leftist would defend workers' rights "against the big
corporations."


As for Juliette Binoche, star of "Chocolat" and "The English
Patient", she is voting for anti-globalisation campaigner Jose
Bove, saying he "does politics in a different way."

