

Iraq pledged not to abandon those of its citizens forced from
their homes as a United Nations conference on the country's
refugees and displaced persons entered its final day Wednesday.


"My government embraces its duty towards its citizens wherever
they are and we will not abandon them," said Iraqi Foreign
Minister Hoshyar Zebari.


The Iraqi government "has allocated 25 million dollars to meet
the most urgent needs of these people as a first step," he told
journalists on the sidelines of the conference.


Nearly two million of the four million Iraqis who have fled the
violence since 2003, as well as Saddam Hussein's regime
beforehand, have sought refuge in Jordan and Syria.


Those two countries have now reached their limits, according to
aid agencies at the two-day conference organised by the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).


Meanwhile, the 1.9 million people displaced inside Iraq are
facing increasingly harsh conditions. Some regional authorities
have started to turn back people arriving from other regions
because their delapidated infrastructure cannot cope.


The joint Iraq-UNHCR package will include financial aid for
countries hosting refugees to help them prop up overburdened
education and health services. It will also have a commitment to
protect and help those within Iraq who have fled sectarian
violence.


The conference has been marked by fears that the Iraqis could
turn into a permanent refugee population similar to several
million Palestinians scattered throughout the Middle East for
decades.


Following an initial wave of returns from 2003, some 800,000
Iraqis have fled their homes since violence involving Iraq's
Sunni and Shiite Muslim communities -- and US led forces --
intensified in February 2006.


"We won't be able to get rid of this problem unless we find
political solutions in Iraq," Zebari acknowledged.


"If Iraq were to fail, there would be a major disaster in the
region. The spill- over could not be contained within the borders
of Iraq," he warned.


The United States said it had given 18 million dollars to the
UNHCR's 60 million dollar aid programme for Iraqi refugees this
year.


France and Germany announced an additional two million euros in
funding at the conference.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Tuesday urged countries to
keep their borders open to Iraqi refugees, amid signs that some
were restricting access.

