

Zimbabwe was marking its 27th anniversary of independence from
Britain on Wednesday amid an economic meltdown and spiralling
political tensions that have taken the shine out of this year's
event.


Veteran President Robert Mugabe, in power in the former Rhodesia
since 1980, was due to deliver a keynote speech at the Harare
football stadium where the inaugural independence celebrations
were held while smaller gatherings will be held at privincial
capitals across the country.


In a speech on the eve of independence, Mugabe fired a now
familiar broadside against the former colonial power and its
outgoing prime minister, Tony Blair, whom he accused of being
behind a push to topple him from power.


"The man is about to retire and wants a last push in Zimbabwe,"
Mugabe told hundreds of schoolchildren and teachers drawn from
selected schools.


Mugabe, Africa's oldest leader at 83, also branded his domestic
opponents as "evil-doers who act as his (Blair's) representatives
here" who were party to a campaign "to make Zimbabwe a colony
again".


A recent crackdown on the opposition Movement for Democratic
Change, including the arrest and assault of its leader Morgan
Tsvangirai, led to renewed criticism from the West which imposed
sanctions on Mugabe and his immediate coterie over allegations
that he rigged his 2002 re-election.


South African President Thabo Mbeki has been tasked by his
regional peers with mediating between the ruling ZANU-PF party
and the MDC amid fears about the fallout of the economic crisis
in Zimbabwe where 80 percent of people are out of work and
inflation is zooming towards 2,000 percent.


Harare-based economist Victor Zirebgwa said few people were
likely to celebrate given the scale of the problems they were now
confronted with.


"What is there to celebrate for? People are hard pressed by the
economic and political crisis," he said.


"We just hope for a miracle to be seen, but we do not know when
it will come."


However government Chief Whip Rugare Gumbo said independence day
should still be a source of pride and serve as an opportunity to
recall the days of whites-only rule during the regime of the then
prime minister Ian Smith.


"We are now masters of our own destiny. It's a pity that some
people politicise independence day," Gumbo told AFP.


"Now we have freedom of association, worship, movement among
other things.


"In the past blacks were not even allowed to walk within the city
centre."

