

An accountancy firm has cleared a Macau bank of handling
counterfeit US currency for North Korea, a report said Wednesday,
adding a new twist to Pyongyang's disarmament saga.


Some 24 million US dollars of North Korean assets were frozen in
the accounts of Banco Delta Asia (BDA) in 2005 after the US
Treasury department linked the bank with the counterfeiting of
American currency.


But an independent study by accountants Ernst and Young of the
transactions of 50 of BDA's North Korea-linked accounts could not
draw such conclusions.


"From our investigations it is apparent that ... the bank did not
introduce counterfeit US currency notes into circulation," Hong
Kong's South China Morning Post newspaper cited the probe as
saying.


The study, commissioned by Macau authorities in 2005 soon after
the United States froze the bank's assets, has not been publicly
released, but the paper said it had seen a copy.


In its report, the Post said Ernst and Young uncovered decades of
multi-billion dollar transactions in cash, trades, term deposits
and gold bullion sales, all of which appeared above board.


Much of the bank's transactions went through a third-party bank
in Hong Kong, which the report said had been revealed by other
sources as HSBC.


It said the probe found that bank staff justified the large cash
and bullion transactions as essential for dealing in North
Korea's antiquated cash-based economy.


Pyongyang missed an April 14 deadline to start shutting down a
nuclear reactor as part of an international disarmament deal,
saying it would not do so until it had received the money frozen
in BDA.


The US Treasury and the Macau Monetary Authority said last week
North Korea was free to access the funds and Washington hoped
that it would meet a deadline to shut down its nuclear weapons
program in exchange for foreign aid.


The report said BDA cited the Ernst and Young probe in a
challenge it launched this week against by a move by the US
Treasury Department to keep the bank out of the international
financial system.

