

Nigerian opposition parties have threatened to boycott Saturday's
presidential election, adding to the turmoil that has surrounded
one of the most closely watched elections here since
independence.


Tuesday's announcement followed a Supreme Court ruling allowing
the vice president to stand and came days after more than 20
people were killed in regional elections heavily criticised by
the international community.


A group of 18 opposition parties said the April 14 vote should be
voided, the national election commission should be disbanded and
further elections should be postponed until "transparency and
fairness" can be guaranteed.


If these conditions were not fulfilled, the parties "shall
consider not participating in the election," they said in a
statement.


The statement was read at the end of a meeting in the presence of
two leading opposition candidates in the presidential election,
Vice President Atiku Abubakar and General Muhamadu Buhari.


Earlier the election commission ruled that Abubakar could stand
in the vote, reversing an earlier move to exclude him after the
Supreme Court decided Monday that the commission did not have the
right to disqualify candidates.


Abubakar, excluded from the initial list of approved candidates
following corruption allegations, is one of two opposition
figures expected to pose a serious challenge to the ruling
party's Umaru Yar'Adua in Saturday's poll.


The other is former military ruler Muhamadu Buhari who is
contesting under the banner of the All Nigeria Peoples Party
(ANPP).


"The Commission assures Nigerians that the VP will be on the
ballot," Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)
spokesman Philip Umeadi told a news conference.


The presidential vote, which will also determine the head of the
legislative assembly, is expected to usher in Nigeria's first
civilian-to civilian handover since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1960.


But the regional elections, marked by the deaths of between 20
and 50 people, were slammed as fraudulent by the European Union,
the United States and rights watchdogs such as Human Rights Watch
and Amnesty International.


"In Nigeria, the United States takes seriously reports of voting
irregularities and election-related violence during this past
weekend's state and local elections," said US presidential
spokeswoman Dana Perino.


"We would urge that officials address any problems in order to
ensure that Saturday's presidential election, that those polls
are free and fair and conducted in an atmosphere free of
violence," she said.


EU observers who monitored the state governorship elections also
expressed "serious concerns" about the vote.


The EU observer mission criticised the late opening of polling
stations, under- age voting, failure to guarantee the secrecy of
the ballot and a shortage of electoral officials.


There were "incidents of hijacking of ballot boxes by groups of
thugs" as well as irregularities that led to significant
discrepancies between results at polling stations and ballot
collation at the local government level, they said.


The statement urged the electoral commission to ensure
significant improvements before the presidential and legislative
elections.


"Preparations should have been of a higher standard and must be
substantially improved in the coming days to deliver a credible
and secure process at the federal elections," the EU statement
said.

