

Matthew Hayden's return to one-day international cricket has been
hailed as inspirational by his Australia opening partner Adam
Gilchrist.


During Monday's comprehensive seven-wicket World Cup defeat of
Sri Lanka the duo equalled the record of 25 fifty-stands in one-
day internationals set by Australian predecessors David Boon and
Geoff Marsh.


Hayden himself has been in outstanding form in the Caribbean with
477 runs at an average of 79.50 and only South Africa's Jacques
Kallis has scored more runs in the tournament to date.


But the 35-year-old Queensland left-hander lost his place in the
world champions one-day side after the 2005 tour of England and
only regained his spot during the recent Commonwealth Bank Series
in Australia after all-rounder Shane Watson was injured.


Hayden then secured his place with an innings of 117 against New
Zealand in Perth in January.


"I guess when he came back in, a lot of people would have been
looking at it like it's make-or-break time," said fellow left-
hander Gilchrist.


"He identified that and I think he's said that was a bit of a
breakthrough innings for him in regards to allowing him more time
to express himself. He's taken it with both hands and inspired
everyone to keep improving."


Wicket-keeper Gilchrist said he felt proud to have batted
alongside Hayden.


"It's been a wonderful partnership at the top of the order and
statistically we're there or thereabouts so that's a huge
thrill."


Australia face fellow semi-finalists New Zealand in a Super
Eights match at the Grenada National Stadium here Friday.


The best stand posted by Black Caps makeshift opening duo Stephen
Fleming and Peter Fulton in five games is 44 and they haven't
been alone among first-wicket pairs at the World Cup in
struggling with Caribbean pitches.


"I guess walking out there together at the start of the order you
have the opportunity to set up a strong foundation for your
team," said Gilchrist.


"Fortunately we've been doing that well in this World Cup and
obviously a number of times over the years so it's really
pleasing.


"Matty is in a good place at the moment, he's hitting the ball so
well it's allowing a me a bit more time to try to occupy the
crease and settle in.


"We've identified that initial period as a time we want to just
get through. And the way Matty's going we're not just getting
through, we're getting through at a pretty decent scoring rate as
well.


"It's worked well for us. Some teams have found it difficult and
that's why we wanted to target that period and establish a
foundation."


Gilchrist, himself renowned as a rapid run-scorer, has been happy
to play second fiddle to Hayden as Australia chase an
unprecedented third straight World Cup title.


"He was left out for a year and he was really stung back by that.
He went away and had a burning desire," Gilchrist explained.


"When he made it, he allowed himself to play with so much
freedom. It's almost like a second chance or a last chance.


"He's playing so well, it allows me to relax and not feel I have
to dominate the bowling. He's just a fantastic part of this
team."

