

Democrats in Congress said Tuesday they plan to have an emergency
Iraq spending bill on President George W. Bush's desk next week,
setting up a likely showdown over a threatened presidential veto.


"We want to try to get it (to Bush) next week," Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid told reporters, one day before Democrats were
due to meet with the US president.


Democratic leaders were to sit down with Bush Wednesday in hopes
of averting a clash over legislation linking the 120-billion-
dollar-plus spending bills approved in both houses of Congress to
a timeline for withdrawing US troops.


The US House and Senate last month passed slightly differing
versions of legislation that would require most US combat troops
to withdraw from Iraq over the course of 2008.


The Pentagon has said it is just weeks away from running out of
money to fund military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, but
the White House vows to veto any bill imposing time constraints
on military planners in Iraq.


Bush and his supporters assert that a timetable for pulling US
troops would be tantamount to conceding defeat to terrorists.


Democratic Senator Robert Byrd, one of the Senate's elder
members, dismissed the threat a presidential veto.


"The veto can be overturned if the people's representatives
demand it," Byrd said on the Senate floor.


"Members of Congress are elected to make laws based on sound
public policy, not to capitulate to presidential threats. The
Senate must never become a rubberstamp for any president," the
octuagenarian lawmaker said.


Byrd added: "Congress was envisioned as a check on an overzealous
or unwise president, and we do our duty to the Constitution when
we vigorously utilize our enumerated powers."


Reid meanwhile, who this week called Bush's war policy
"wrongheaded," said he had not decided what he will say at
Wednesday's meeting with the president, but will press for a
"change of policy" in Iraq.


Neither side has shown an inclination to budge, but Wednesday's
talks are a hopeful start, the Democratic leader said.


"He's going to be sitting right next to me," said Reid. "Unless
he plugs his ears, he's going to have to listen."

