

The private equity consortium bidding to take over Australian
national airline Qantas said Wednesday that its interest in the
carrier had dropped to 28.86 percent from 30.06 percent a
fortnight ago.


It is the first time that the Airline Partners Australia (APA)
consortium behind the 9.0 billion US dollar bid has experienced a
fall in acceptances since it launched the offer late last year.


APA said a number of institutions had opted to sell their stock
below the 5.45 dollar (4.36 US) a share offer price ahead of the
May 4 deadline for the consortium's bid.


"This reinforces APA's view that the majority of key
institutional investors perceive the offer for Qantas shares to
be full and fair value," the Macquarie Bank-led consortium said
in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange.


APA is seeking acceptances of its offer by holders of at least 70
percent of Qantas' shares after its financial backers last week
lowered the minimum from 90 percent at the request of the
consortium.


APA's unconditional offer, which has received unanimous backing
from the Qantas board, will expire on May 4.


At least one institutional investor, Balanced Equity Management,
has said it will not sell its 4.0 percent stake in Qantas because
it believes the APA offer undervalues the company.


Swiss investment bank UBS, another institution believed to be
sceptical about the offer, announced Wednesday that it had
increased its stake in Qantas to 11.4 percent.


Analysts have upgraded their expectations for Qantas since the
takeover bid was launched late last year and the airline itself
expects this year's annual net profit to be up to 40 percent
higher than the previous year.


Traffic data released Tuesday showed passenger numbers in the
eight months to February rose 7.2 percent, exceeding expectations
and raising speculation the airline could be set to issue a
profit upgrade.


It has already revised profit expectations upwards three times in
the past four months and a further upgrade would strengthen the
belief the airline was entering an earnings "sweet spot".


Qantas shares were down two cents or 0.4 percent at 5.36 dollars
in a rising overall market.

