

British finance minister Gordon Brown, seen as the likely
successor to Prime Minister Tony Blair, survived a rare no-
confidence motion against him on Tuesday, after a marathon debate
in parliament.


The motion, tabled by the main opposition Conservative Party, was
defeated by 298 to 233 after a heated six-hour debate in the
lower House of Commons.


It questioned Brown's handling of a 1997 decision to overhaul
pensions taxation by scrapping a so-called dividend tax credit,
which his critics argue has adversely affected pension funds.


British pension funds are big shareholders in companies and rely
on dividends for part of their revenues.


Though the governing Labour Party's majority in parliament served
to ensure that Brown's position was not seriously threatened, the
attempt by the Conservatives may re-focus attention on his
handling of the pensions issue in the run-up to local and
regional elections early next month.


Brown is the heavy favourite to succeed Blair once the latter
steps down, which he has promised to do by September.


The no-confidence measure is highly unusual in Britain, where
individual ministers are rarely targeted by opposition parties in
such a way.


Brown was accused by the Conservatives' finance spokesman George
Osborne of blowing "a big hole" in pension funds: "The Chancellor
has from the start acted with stealth, blocked all attempts to
get at the truth and now blames everyone but himself for the
destruction he has brought to Britain's pensions."


The smaller opposition Liberal Democrats also supported the no-
confidence motion, with their finance spokesman Vince Cable
saying the government should acknowledge its mistake.


A poll published in an early edition of The Times's Tuesday
newspaper showed that 52 percent of respondents believed that
Brown was in some way to blame for the decision, while 21 percent
did not blame him.


Populus questioned 1,503 adults by telephone between April 13 and
15 for the survey.


Brown, however, refused to apologise, and accused opposition
parties of "short- term opportunism."


"The fact of the matter is we made the right decision for the
British economy," he told parliament.


"It was the right decision for investment, the right decision for
the long-term stability and growth of the British economy, it was
the right decision for British industry."


The row erupted after the release of confidential documents last
month, under Britain's Freedom of Information laws. They revealed
that officials had warned Brown the move would wipe out about 75
billion pounds (111 billion euros, 151 billion dollars) from
workers' pension funds.


The no-confidence motion comes ahead of local elections in some
councils across England, as well as the Scottish and Welsh
regional assemblies.

