

Only half of Indonesia's 19 major airports comply with
international safety standards, a top government transport
official said Wednesday, further fuelling fears about the
nation's aviation industry.


One day after the United States advised its citizens not to use
Indonesian airlines after a spate of deadly accidents, the
official said some airports were lacking adequate runways and air
traffic control systems.


Budhi Muliawan Suyitno, director general for air transportation
at the transport ministry, said his office would review 19
airports to determine the extent of the problems.


"I will conduct an audit in coming weeks and work to ensure that
the airports comply with the international standards," he told
AFP. "The budget has been increased for airports. This is our
priority."


The 19 airports were currently allowed to receive local and
international carriers, although only a handful actually see
international flights, he said.


"Half of them have the adequate standards, the international
standardsm," he said.


A slew of deadly as well as minor plane accidents this year has
shaken confidence in the crucial air links that bind Indonesia,
an archipelago nation of 17,000 islands.


An Adam Air plane plunged into the sea on New Year's Day killing
all 102 people on board. Only small pieces of the plane have so
far been recovered.


A Garuda Indonesia jet last month careened off a runway in the
city of Yogyakarta and burst into flames, killing 21 people.


The accidents have been blamed on lax enforcement of safety
regulations, poor maintenance and a lack of investment in
transport infrastructure despite booming passenger numbers.


Officials have confirmed the Garuda plane was travelling too fast
as it descended, while the Yogyakarta's runway itself was
discovered to be only one- quarter of the length recommended
under international aviation standards.


The accidents prompted an audit of the nation's carriers that
last month found none met all minimum safety standards. Seven
were given three months to improve of face closure.


Transport Minister Hatta Radjasa on Tuesday unveiled a "roadmap"
to overhaul safety of the sector, vowing to crackdown on
operators that failed to comply with standards.


Radjasa, who has faced calls for his resignation in the wake of
the plane and other transport accidents, said the budget had been
increased by 50 percent to overhaul the sector.


He pledged to make public investigation reports into future
accidents.


Suyitno also vowed to get tough on airports and their operators
to ensure they complied with standards.


He cited a recent incident of an Indonesian passenger plane hit
on the runway by a foreign object as one such problem. The plane
was grounded until the damaged tail was fixed, and no one was
injured, he said.

