

The shocking killing of the mayor of Nagasaki has thrown a rare
spotlight on the seedy underworld of Japan's powerful but
reclusive "yakuza" gangsters.


While the motivations for the killing of Mayor Iccho Ito were not
yet clear, police said the gunman was affiliated with Japan's
largest mob empire, the Yamaguchi-gumi.


Tuesday's attack came just two months after rare shootings in
Tokyo, apparently triggered as the Yamaguchi-gumi tried to expand
outside of its home turf into the lucrative capital.


Headquartered in the western city of Kobe, the gang is named
after Harukichi Yamaguchi who established the syndicate with
about 50 stevedores in 1915.


By owning rights to operate wholesale markets in Kobe and
controlling the show- business world, it expanded its strength
through gangland wars in the 1950s and 1960s under the leadership
of its third don, Kazuo Taoka.


The Yamaguchi-gumi boasts membership of about 41,000, accounting
for half of Japanese gang activity, and has operations elsewhere
in Asia and the United States, according to police studies.


In popular culture, the yakuza are best known for their extreme
self-discipline. To atone for perceived failures or disloyalty, a
mobster is expected to chop off his own little finger.


Another yakuza trademark is sprawling tattoos on members' backs,
leading many public baths and hot springs to show gangsters the
door.


Some yakuza -- the name is a play on words for "good for nothing"
-- come from communities historically excluded by Japan's
mainstream, such as Koreans and burakumin, the lowest in the
caste system.


Yakuza are tolerated under the law, although police say a
crackdown has led to a decrease in violence in recent years.


In 2005, a court jailed the Yamaguchi-gumi's don Kenichi Shinoda
on weapons charges, just months after he took over the group's
helm by exchanging cups of sake with subordinates in a tightly
guarded ceremony in Kobe.


But the violence returned with a vengeance in February with a
series of shootings in Tokyo.


In the morning of February 5, a senior gangster linked to Japan's
number-two yakuza group, the Tokyo-based Sumiyoshi-kai, was shot
in the head and torso and died while sitting inside a car parked
in an upscale part of the capital.


The victim was negotiating a deal gone bad with the Kokusai-kai
-- another Tokyo-based group that in 2005 linked up with the
Yamaguchi-gumi, giving the largest syndicate a foothold in the
capital, according to media reports.


Only an hour later on the same morning, at least three bullets
were fired at the door of a Tokyo office of a Yamaguchi-gumi
affiliate in what is believed to be the start of retaliation
attacks.


After further shootings, the 70-year-old leader of Kokusui-kai,
Kazuyoshi Kudo, apparently killed himself at his house by
shooting himself in his head, police said.


The renewed tension in Tokyo is believed to have stemmed from a
feud over control of Roppongi, a nightlife area filled with clubs
catering to expatriates and young Japanese.


Yakuza often front themselves as businesses, political groups and
even non- profit organisations, but the bloody violence is
usually concealed from the eyes of the general public.


"If the reason for their fighting stems from so-called 'rented-
turfs', we believe the problem cannot be solved easily, and the
situation remains unpredictable," the National Police Agency said
in a written response to AFP's questions.


The Kokusui-kai had the turf, but "rented" it out to Kobayashi-
kai, according to media reports.


However, the Kokusui-kai began to demand larger "rent" fees and
return of control of Roppongi after the group joined the
Yamaguchi-gumi empire, local media said.


Yakuza groups have declined public comment on the Nagasaki
shooting. Police said the assailant was affiliated with the
Yamaguchi-gumi and had grievances over a traffic accident that
damaged his car four years ago.

