

A 76-year-old professor and Holocaust survivor was hailed as a
hero after his students recounted how he saved about 20 people in
Monday's US school shooting before being gunned down himself.


Liviu Librescu, a senior researcher and lecturer at Virginia Tech
University, blocked the classroom door when he heard shooting and
continued to hold the gunman at bay while students escaped
through a classroom window.


One of the last students to flee Librescu's classroom had written
an email to the professor's wife describing how he saw his
teacher for the last time, the professor's son Joe told CNN
television from Israel.


"He looked behind, and he saw my dad pushing on the door, and he
fell," the son recounted.


"He didn't have much more strength to keep on the door. And he
was torn between jumping out the window and coming to help my
dad. He chose and possibly, you know, made the right decision, to
jump out the window," his son said, recalling the contents of the
email.


"All the students, 20 of them or so, out of the window, and the
professor, 76, going on 77, pushing on the door and getting
shot."


Rabbi Marvin Hier, founder of the Simon Wiesenthal Center,
pointed to the "unbelievable" irony that a Holocaust survivor
like Librescu died while saving others as Holocaust Memorial Day
was marked worldwide.


"Here's a Holocaust survivor who lived through the period when so
many stood by silently and did nothing," Hier said.


"When evil stopped at his door and he saw this murderer was going
after his students, he decided that he would not be a bystander.
It's quite remarkable."


Hier said that while many Holocaust survivors freeze when
confronted with danger as a result of their horrific memories,
Librescu had not.


"He's a great hero," he said.


Captured as a child in Romania during World War II, Librescu was
sent to a labor camp in Ukraine, later returning to Romania. "He
survived that whole ordeal, and went to college to study
aerospace engineering," his son said.


He later moved to Israel and first went to Virginia Tech
University on a sabbatical. "He was a real passionate person. He
loved his research at the university," his son said.

