

Security was tight in India's most populous state of Uttar
Pradesh on Wednesday as more than 15 million people were expected
to vote in the third round of staggered state assembly elections.


The polls come halfway through the five-year team of the
Congress-led national government and will be closely watched as
an indicator of the popularity of Congress and the main
opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).


Some 60,000 security personnel have been deployed in the 57
constituencies where polling was to take place, mostly in the
central part of the state, said chief electoral officer A.K.
Bishnoi.


He has described the polls as a "challenge," given the sheer
scale of the task in a state of 180 million people that is dotted
with illegal gun makers and suffers high crime.


Among the 861 candidates were 171 facing criminal charges,
according to Uttar Pradesh Election Watch, a non-governmental
organisation founded by former police officers.


So far voting has taken place peacefully but turnout has been low
at 46 percent, Bishnoi said Tuesday.


"Intense heat may have forced people to stay indoors. We cannot
force people to vote. We can only ensure free and fair
elections," said Bishnoi.


Exit polls from the earlier rounds show Mayawati Kumari, a woman
from India's "untouchable" Dalit classes who leads the Dalit-
based Bahujan Samaj Party, just ahead of incumbent chief minister
Mulayam Singh Yadav.


The vote was seen as crucial for Yadav, whose regional Samajwadi
party picked up half the seats in this area in state elections in
2002. He is up for re-election in the current round.


The Congress party was likely to better its record of 25 seats in
the 403-member state assembly, thanks to campaigning by its chief
Sonia Gandhi and her son and heir-apparent Rahul, polls said.


They showed the BJP, upset by Congress in national elections in
2004, were likely to do well in the state polls, which began
April 7 and end on May 8.


Earlier this year, the BJP won polls in the northern states of
Uttarakhand and Punjab. Votes will be counted May 11.

