

Shock, horror and fears of a racial backlash filled Korean
residents of the Virginia suburb where the student who killed at
least 30 people in a bloody rampage at a US university grew up.


There was no word from the family of Cho Seung-Hui, whose three
story town house on a cul de sac in this wooded middle-class town
26 miles (42 kilometers) due east of Washington was cordoned off
by a phalanx of local police.


But at churches, shopping malls and restaurants around the area,
the heavily Korean community expressed deep dismay that one of
theirs was responsible for the carnage Monday morning at Virginia
Tech University.


"I was just horrified. I cannot believe he came from just down
here," said Chung Hyun-soo at a mall just a few miles from where
Cho lived.


"Everybody is talking about it," said Kathy Chang, whose family
runs the  Pyung Rae Oak Korean BBQ Grill. "It's shocking that it
is a Korean," she said.


At the sprawling, 3,200-student Westfield High School where Cho
graduated in 2003, flags fluttered at half staff. Two Westfield
students who graduated last year and went to Virginia Tech were
among those cut down by Cho's killing spree, US media reported.


Born in South Korea, Cho lived in Centreville, Virginia with his
family in a three-story beige townhouse in a development of
winding lanes bordered by a community school and a park with a
meandering stream, guarded by a traditional weathered split-rail
fence.


As police blocked the entrance to Cho's house, a yellow school
bus stopped and unloaded six elementary schoolchildren, three of
whom were Asian.


Jesus Falcon, a company loan officer who remembers seeing Cho
drive around in a green Corolla, called the neighborhood
decidedly mixed: whites, blacks, Indians, Koreans, and Latinos.


"It's really quiet," he said.


It is one of many similar neighborhoods in Fairfax county, one of
the country's wealthiest, where 15 percent of the 1.1 million
population is Asian and 50 percent of families earn more than
100,000 dollars a year, according to county statistics.


Pastor Peter Chen at Open Door Presbyterian Church in Herndon,
next to Centreville and one of maybe two dozen Korean churches in
the immediate area, said he was planning special services to
address the tragedy on Sunday and possibly the following week.


"We are still reeling from it," Chen said. He said the four
members of his church attending Virginia Tech have not reported
any pressure or censure as Koreans, but he was planning to go
there to offer them support.


"That's always the fear," he said. "For any immigrant community
that's always a concern that it will dissolve into a discussion
about race or culture."


Chung said one of her friends warned her not to go to one
department store for her shopping Tuesday to avoid some race-
based confrontation, and directed her instead to go to the Grand
Mart, a huge Korean-owned supermarket at the main Centreville
crossroads.


There were rumors that a white person had fired at a local Korean
shop, she said.


"I need to go back to work tomorrow. I don't know what I will say
to my friends," she said.


But among non-Koreans there was only sympathy for the victims and
for Cho's family.


"Nobody should have a finger pointed at them," said Falcon,
saying race had nothing to do with the shooting.


"For some the United States is a gun society," said China-born
computing worker Dan Tian. "It is just waiting to happen."


At nearby Chantilly High School, students said they perceived no
anger at the Asians in their school. A handful -- all of whom had
friends and relatives at Virginia Tech -- were outside painting a
memorial to the 32 killed in the massacre on a high school
outbuilding Tuesday afternoon.


Zachary Biskaduros said most students had worn the maroon and
orange colors of Virginia Tech to school that day. "A lot of my
friends and my cousin go to tech. ... It could happen to any
school."


"It disturbs me that there is that kind of evil in the world,"
said Becca Spellerberg, who plans to attend Virginia Tech in
September.

