

Malaysia has accused the United Nations refugee agency of
contributing to a "flood" of immigrants who are poorly cared for,
according to a report Wednesday.


Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar said Malaysia had expressed
concern "on a number of occasions" to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) over the growing numbers of
immigrants given refugee status.


"What we are not happy about is the current state of affairs, the
difficulty, the social and economic burden we face," he told the
New Straits Times newspaper.


The UNHCR "should not be taking people except for those who
really have a problem, and it should inform us. At present, it
doesn't inform us," he added.


Malaysia is not a party to international refugee conventions, and
illegal immigrants are often detained and later deported to their
home country.


However, the UNHCR can assign refugee status to applicants and
assist in resettling them in another country or in voluntary
repatriation.


Syed Hamid said Malaysia was supposed to a place of transition,
but that the number of refugees was "becoming a flood," with the
UNCHR registering some 40,000.


"We have given humane treatment to these people who have come to
this country illegally. It (the UNHCR) should get them to a third
country. Otherwise, every illegal in this country will go to the
UNHCR and ask to be certified as refugees," he said.


The minister said the UN agency was failing in its duty to take
care of the refugees.


"UNHCR has to manage it properly ... You see (the refugees) on
the road. Syndicates exploit them. Children who are fatherless,
motherless are on our streets. They have become street children,"
he said.


UNHCR officials, when contacted, could not immediately comment on
the accusations.


They followed a call last month from Malaysia's home minister for
the UNHCR to set up its own camps to deal with burgeoning numbers
of refugees from Myanmar, Indonesia's Aceh province, and the
Philippines.


The criticism comes in the wake of plans announced by Malaysia
last month Malaysia to arrest up to half a million illegal
foreign workers amid fears of illegal immigrants committing
crimes.

