

China's Liu Xiang is hoping to tone down expectations of a repeat
110-metre hurdles gold medal at next year's Olympics, saying his
first goal is to reach the final, state media reported Wednesday.


The 23-year-old has been a national hero since he won China's
first ever men's Olympic track gold in Athens in 2004.


Amid pressure for him to repeat the triumph at next year's
Beijing Games, Liu said that he was happy just to finish in the
top three in major international races because the competition
was so stiff.


"To compete at home in the Olympics is a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity. I have to run three rounds before reaching the
finals. So my first aim is to make sure I get a spot in the
final," he was quoted as saying by the China Daily.


Chinese athletics officials have expressed concern recently that
the weight of Olympic expectations could prove too much for Liu
and derail his career.


His coach Sun Haiping said the Shanghai athlete, who is in the
capital to prepare for next month's Osaka Grand Prix, admitted
the runner was under pressure from high intensity training and
also from commercial demands.


"Although he is dealing with the pressure quite well, I'm afraid
the intense training progamme we've got lined up and other
activities will have an impact," he said.


Liu, who last year smashed the 110m hurdles world record, is one
of China's wealthiest sportsmen, earning millions of dollars a
year from commercial endorsements.


But the wealth comes at a price and Liu admitted that he
preferred hard training to the "suffering" of commercial
appearances and photo shoots.


"They cause me more suffering (than training)," he said.
"Sometimes I have to get up as early as six and go home as late
as nine.


"Maybe it is not as intense as training (but) it is torture."


The Osaka race on May 5 is seen as a dress rehearsal for this
year's World Championships, also held in Osaka from August 25 to
September 2.


His coach said earlier this year that winning the gold at the
World Championships was Liu's top goal for 2007.


Liu said Osaka was his lucky city and he has never lost a race
there.


"I am trying my best to keep my 100 percent record there," he
said.


"A victory in May will give me more confidence to win in August
(at the world championships)."

