

Former England captain Bob Willis demanded Michael Vaughan be
axed as skipper following the team's World Cup exit.


Willis, now a TV pundit, said coach Duncan Fletcher and chairman
of selectors David Graveney should also be removed from their
postitions after South Africa's thumping nine-wicket win
condemned Vaughan's men to a humiliating World Cup exit.


Ian Botham, another captain, added his voice to the furore
insisting that Fletcher should be the man to carry the can.


Willis also hit out at the make-up of the county game in England
as well as the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) who he
accused of being obsessed with Test match cricket and forcing the
one-day game down its list of priorities.


"They haven't given it the priority it deserves. Latterly Duncan
Fletcher has called for England to play more one-day
internationals and eventually the ECB has ceded to that request.
They are playing more and more," Willis told Sky Sports.


"Graveney, Fletcher and Vaughan - they've all got to go.


"We have got to start planning now for the next World Cup, which
is on the sub- continent. They should get out the birth
certificates and anyone who is 32 or over now - they're out of
it.


"We have got to go back to preparing a side specifically for that
tournament in four years time and get young players into the
side. That preparation should start with the one-day
internationals against the West Indies this summer."


Meanwhile, Botham said that Fletcher's reign as England coach
must come to end.


After Tuesday's nine-wicket defeat to the Proteas, Botham told
Sky Sports that change is necessary and that the ECB should act
quickly.


"Change it now," he said. "The World Cup is over and England have
been humiliated and it is just not good enough. We have to change
things and move on.


"We are disappointed but not surprised although surprised at how
easy it was," said Botham, after South Africa reached England's
lowly target of 155 inside 20 overs.


"I thought we would always battle and that we would have to play
extremely well but to be quite frank we have watched this over
the last couple of years in one- day cricket and it is not
getting any better, it is getting worse.


"Today's performance summed it up. We are miles away from it. We
need to stop right now, change our whole attitude, change our
major personnel; everything has got to be changed. You cannot
keep going like this.


"When you heard that crowd booing England off the field and the
captain, when he went up to the presentation, it is hurting
people now."


Botham praised for Fletcher for his contribution to English
cricket in his time as coach but said all good things come to an
end.


"I think Duncan Fletcher has done some great things for England
over the years, let's not forget that, but I am sorry, everyone
has a shelf life and his has expired," said the former all-
rounder.


"I don't see how he can possibly motivate players. The camp looks
split, they are all over the place and in disarray. The time has
come.


"I hope the ECB are looking for the right option. He has to be a
strong character and someone with a proven track record."

