

Scott Styris believes the current New Zealand team can do
something none of their predecessors managed and win the World
Cup.


New Zealand, already through to their fifth semi-final in the
tournament's nine- edition history, face fellow last four
qualifiers and champions Australia in their final Super Eights
match on Friday, at Grenada's National Stadium.


But whereas a semi-final spot might have been the summit of
ambition for previous New Zealand teams, Styris reckons the side
in the Caribbean can not only go one better and reach a final for
the first time but take home the trophy as well.


"I am biased, but I think this is the first New Zealand side that
is considered to have the first genuine opportunity to win it,"
said Styris


"If we play well, we know we are a good enough side to win it.


"In the past, a semi-final spot has been a fair result for some
of those (New Zealand) teams. This team here, if we hadn't made
the semis it would have been a failure.


"If we win it, then I think it's deserved: if we don't, it's
disappointing and that's probably not been the case for previous
campaigns."


Arguably the closest New Zealand have come to winning the World
Cup was in 1992, when they were joint hosts with Australia.


In front of a home crowd in Auckland, New Zealand were on top in
their semi- final against Pakistan until the then unknown
Inzamam-ul-Haq scored 60 off 37 balls to turn the game the way of
the eventual champions.


But by then New Zealand had already left a mark on the
tournament, not least through the innovative tactics of captain
Martin Crowe which included opening the bowling with off-spinner
Deepak Patel.


"I was reasonably young," said the 31-year-old Styris, "but I do
remember it gripping New Zealand."


He added: "New Zealand got in behind it big-time because they
played well and out-thought a few opponents, which is where the
history of New Zealand tactical smarts has come from, with Martin
Crowe."


Styris has been in superb batting form in the Caribbean and is
currently fourth in the tournament's list of leading run-scorers
with 435 at a high average of 108.75, boosted by 111 not out in a
six-wicket defeat by Sri Lanka here Thursday - New Zealand's only
loss in the tournament to date.


"I'm happy with the way I'm going about my innings which is the
thing that gets you good scores, particularly on these wickets,"
said Styris in a reference to the generally slow and low pitches
in the West Indies.


"I was really happy with my first innings against England (where
his composed, unbeaten 87 secured a six-wicket win in St Lucia
last month).


"It set me up to get underway in this tournament right from the
get-go," explained Styris, who at one stage feared he might miss
this World Cup because of a back problem.


Hosts New Zealand thrashed Australia 3-0 in the Chappell-Hadlee
Trophy in February and Styris said: "I'm sure they (Australia)
are still smarting a bit and we need to fight fire with fire.


"Against England and the West Indies, we didn't let the foot off
the throat which has always been a problem for New Zealand sides
in the past."


Looking ahead to Friday's match Styris, born in Brisbane but
brought up in New Zealand, said: "Any time you play Australia you
want to beat them. It's a great feeling, I promise you, even in a
so-called 'meaningless' game.

