

The deadliest school shooting in US history may have pushed gun
control to the forefront of national debate, but there was no
sign that politicians were ready to rush into calls for action.


With an estimated 40 percent of American households owning a gun
and some 200 million weapons in private hands, according to
surveys, challenging the constitutional right to bear arms is
potentially a hugely unpopular move.


President George W. Bush said that while the shooting would
inevitably rekindle debate about gun ownership, now was not the
time to discuss the issue.


"When a guy walks in and shoots 32 people, it's going to cause
there to be a lot of policy debate," Bush, who was endorsed by
the pro-gun National Rifle Association in both his presidential
bids, told ABC television.


"Now's not the time to do the debate until we're absolutely
certain about what happened and after we help people get over
their grieving. But, yeah, I do think there's going to be a lot
of discussion."


House Democratic Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said in Washington
that lawmakers would discuss the extremely sensitive issue but
that there were no immediate plans for legislation.


"Yes, there will be discussions -- as there properly ought to
be," he told reporters, adding: "I don't want to get into the
debate with reference to what we need to do less than 24 hours
after this incident has occurred."


Virginia Governor Tom Kaine said it was insensitive to even
discuss gun control at a time when the families of those killed
needed to grieve.


"For those who want to, you know, make this into some little
crusade, I think take that elsewhere. Let this community deal
with the grieving individuals and be attentive to those needs."


Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid added his voice to
calls for restraint, saying: "I hope there's not a rush to do
anything. We need to take a deep breath ... Let's wait until we
know more of the facts."


Advocates of gun control said the tragedy just showed how much of
a problem gun violence posed in American society.


Paul Helmke of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said
that while it was still not clear what motivated South Korean
student Cho Seung-Hui, 23, to go on the rampage, it was simply
too easy to get hold of a gun in America.


The owner of the shop that sold a gun to the killer said he was
distraught at what happened but said he noticed nothing unusual
about the student.


"There were no red flags kicked up in any way," John Markell,
owner of Roanoke Firearms, told ABC television.


"He got a clean bill of health from the state police. There was
just no reason for me not to have sold him the gun."


Markell said it was the fifth gun sold in his store that had been
used in a homicide, ABC reported.


The shooting came almost eight years to the day after two teenage
students ran amok at Columbine High School in Colorado killing 13
people and six months after a lone gunman shot dead five girls at
an Amish school in Pennsylvania.


"Since these killings, we've done nothing as a country to end gun
violence in our schools and communities," said Helmke. "If
anything, we've made it easier to access powerful weapons."


"It is long overdue for us to take some common-sense actions to
prevent tragedies like this from continuing to occur," he said.


Ladd Everitt of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence said the
shooting highlighted how much of a problem gun violence had
become in America.


"We still live in a society where gun violence is an overriding
concern," he said. "We've had a series of these high-profile,
very violent shootings that have taken a lot of victims.


"We continue to lose more than 30,000 people every year in this
country to gun violence," he said, calling for the introduction
of "sensible" gun laws.


"The illegal gun market in this nation is really fed by a number
of loopholes in existing laws that allow criminals and children
and other prohibited purchasers persistently and easily to get
guns," he told AFP.


More than 30 states have yet to close loopholes allowing
convicted felons to buy weapons at gun fairs, for example,
without background checks, he said.


The National Rifle Association, which bases its campaign on the
constitutional right of individuals to bear arms, declined to
comment on the shooting but offered its condolences to families
of those killed.

