

A fact-finding team from the Inter-Parliamentary Union arrived in
the Philippines on Wednesday to investigate the case of six
leftist lawmakers accused of rebellion.


The Geneva-based IPU will meet with top defence, police and
justice officials as well as the six congressmen over three days
to see if the cases are meant to intimidate and silence the
opposition.


The six include Congressman Crispin Beltran, who is detained, and
five others who are under the custody of the legislature.


All are officials of fringe leftist parties and are accused of
plotting a 2006 coup against President Gloria Arroyo, alongside
military rebels and opposition politicians.


Senator Sharon Carstairs of Canada, the head of the team, said
they would also look into new charges against one of the
legislators, Satur Ocampo, that he was involved in mass killings
in the 1980s when he was a communist guerrilla leader.


"We want to hear from all sides of any argument," Carstairs said,
adding that they wanted to see if "the accusations ... are
founded in law," and not on political motives.


Carstairs said the IPU was also seeking the release of Beltran
from detention in a police hospital, saying he posed no risk as
he was 74 years old and had a heart ailment.


The findings of the team would be released later this month at
the annual IPU meeting in Bali, Indonesia, Carstairs added.


She said the group's findings had no legal authority but would
hopefully have some moral authority.


The rash of killings of activists, journalists and politicians in
the Philippines under the Arroyo administration has gained
international attention.


United Nations special rapporteur Philip Alston earlier this year
accused the military of being behind most of the killings and
said it was "in almost total denial" over the deaths.


The military has denied involvement and said that communist
insurgents may be behind many of the deaths as part of an
internal purge.


The IPU includes legislators from 143 countries.

