

Michael Vaughan insisted he will not quit after his team failed
to qualify for the World Cup semi-finals.


"I won't be retiring from one-day cricket. I am not stupid," said
Vaughan after South Africa inflicted a nine-wicket defeat on
England here on Tuesday to book the last place in the semi-
finals.


It is the fourth successive time that England have failed to
qualify for the last four since finishing runners-up to Pakistan
in the 1992 tournament in Australia.


England failed to fire in the highly-charged match at Kensington
Oval which both teams needed to win to keep their World Cup
dreams on track.


South Africa dismissed England for a paltry 154, with medium-
pacer Andrew Hall taking a career-best 5-18, and then cruised
home with captain Graeme Smith smashing a 59-ball, 89 not out in
a one-sided contest.


"I know it's an area (his position) of concern and it will be an
area of talk over the next few days. The most important thing is
getting England back on track," said Vaughan.


"There needs to be a lot of honesty. We, as an England team, have
had a very disappointing six months. We got hammered in the
Champions Trophy, lost the Ashes 5-0, won the tri-series, smiled
our way home on the flight, then turned up at the World Cup
thinking we had a great chance of playing well.


"I firmly believed we would do a lot better than we have. To get
knocked out of the World Cup in the circumstances that we have is
not good enough for the talent in that dressing room."


Vaughan's dismal form with the bat continued as he fell for 17
and now has a miserable 130 in eight matches at the World Cup.


"My batting form has not been good at all in one-day cricket. I'm
a very honest guy that says my position in the team is hugely in
doubt because of my batting.


"But I still believe I am a very good captain, so people will
have to sit down and discuss my position.


"We need to work out why it's gone wrong and work out who is the
best person to lead us forward because the grass isn't always
greener," said Vaughan whose injury allowed Andrew Flintoff to
lead the team in Australia.


"It is not about Vaughan or (coach) Duncan Fletcher, it's about
people coming up with a strategy, thinking about who is the best
person to lead England forward, who is the best coach to lead
England forward and if it's me and Fletch we will have to come
forward and make a better strategy."


Besides Vaughan, Fletcher's position will also be under pressure
after the World Cup exit but the England captain backed his
coach.


"He is still an outstanding coach. I still think he has a
tremendous amount to offer the English game. Only he knows how he
is feeling at this moment in time. I know he will be very
disappointed and hurt inside."


Vaughan said England's performance had let down the huge army of
fans who had come to the Caribbean.


"It is a very sad day for English cricket, it's a horrible
feeling to have walked off the park in Barbados and be booed by a
lot of English supporters, rightfully so from the performance we
put in.


"I fully understand why they have given us that kind of
reception. It is a massive tournament. It is not a nice feeling
but you have to accept it."

