

There is widespread global concern that the United States cannot
be trusted to act responsibly in the world, according to a
multinational poll released here Wednesday.


But while there is broad international frustration with how the
United States conducts its foreign policy, few people around the
world want the United States to completely back off its role as a
global policeman, the poll found.


"There's clearly a trend in terms of deepening negative attitudes
to the US in how it executes foreign policy," said Christopher
Whitney, executive director for studies at the Chicago Council on
Global Affairs which helped coordinate the 18-country study.


The United States has long faced criticism internationally for
its interventionalist foreign policy, Whitney said.


This survey found that the frustration is broader in scope than
previously thought and has deepened in the wake of the war in
Iraq.


But mixed with this frustration is an understanding that the US
has a significant role to play internationally and should not
withdraw completely, Whitney said.


He noted there was not consistent support for closing US military
bases overseas and that many respondents felt that their
bilateral relationship with the United States was improving.


"It is not a consistent message of 'we don't want the US to be
involved,' it's more nuanced," Whitney said.


"They just want the US to play a more cooperative role and be a
more constructive international player in terms of working
through international organizations and listening to allies and
friends when they have concerns."


The most stark results were those showing a lack of trust that
the United States would act responsibly and a sense that it had
overreached on the global stage.


A majority of respondents in Argentina (84 percent), Peru (80
percent), Russia (73 percent) France (72 percent), Armenia (58
percent), Indonesia (64 percent), China (59 percent), Thailand
(56 percent), South Korea  (53 percent) and India (52 percent)
and more than a third of those in Australia (40 percent) and
Ukraine (37 percent) answered "not at all" or "not very much"
when asked how much they trusted the US "to act responsibly in
the world," the poll found.


The Philippines and Israel proved the staunchest supporters with
85 percent and 81 percent of respondents, respectively, saying
they trusted the US either a "great deal" or "somewhat," followed
by Australia at 59 percent and Poland at 51 percent.


More than three out of four Americans think their country tends
to take on the role of international enforcer more than it
should.


Large majorities elsewhere also felt that way: France at 89
percent, Australia at 80 percent, China at 77 percent, Russia at
76 percent, Peru at 76 percent, the Palestinian territories at 74
percent, South Korea at 73 percent, Indonesia at 68 percent,
Ukraine at 67 percent, Armenia at 63 percent, Argentina at 62
percent and India at 53 percent.


Only one country surveyed had a majority of respondents who
disagreed: the Philippines with 57 percent. Israeli respondents
were split at an even 48 percent.


The study was conducted in 18 countries -- China, India, the
United States, Indonesia, Russia, France, Thailand, Ukraine,
Poland, Iran, Mexico, South Korea, the Philippines, Australia,
Argentina, Peru, Israel and Armenia -- plus the Palestinian
territories. Not all questions were asked in each country.


These represent roughly 56 percent of the world's population.


The random sample surveys were conducted by telephone and in
person from June 2006 to March 2007, with margins of error
ranging from 1.5 to 4.0 percentage points.

