

Washington won't be satisfied that North Korea is closing its
Yongbyon nuclear reactor as promised until UN inspectors can
verify it, a US official said Wednesday.


News reports on Tuesday said that US spy satellite photos
indicated that Pyongyang might be preparing to shut down the
reactor, days after the communist state missed an agreed
disarmament deadline.


"I see nothing... that has either encouraged or discouraged me,"
in North Korea's actions so far, US Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for East Asian affairs Kathleen Stephens told reporters in
Brussels.


"What will encourage me is to see the IAEA (International Atomic
Energy Agency) being in touch and getting back into the DPRK
(North Korea) and getting on with the work."


US satellites Monday spotted unusual movement of people and
vehicles near the cooling tower and parking lot at the Yongbyon
facility, which provides plutonium for nuclear weapons, South
Korea's Dong-A Ilbo newspaper said.


The United States and South Korea believed it was probably part
of operations to close down the reactor, as required under a six-
nation disarmament deal reached in February, it said.


The reports raised hopes that Pyongyang might be preparing to
take action after an April 14 deadline to close Yongbyon lapsed
due to a dispute over millions of dollars frozen in a Macau bank.


Stephens, who was in Brussels for talks with European officials,
said there was no new deadline for Pyongyang to fulfil its
commitments.


"The time for action is now," she said.


North Korea insists it will begin shutting down and sealing
Yongbyon and readmit the UN atomic inspectors once it has
retrieved 25 million dollars in funds frozen in Macau's Banco
Delta Asia (BDA).


The United States, which orchestrated the freeze on suspicion of
money- laundering and counterfeiting, has said the funds were
freed for collection at BDA last week.


"I don't think there is any doubt that the accounts are open and
available," said Stephens.


She admitted that the bank account issue had been "more
complicated and more technical than expected". But she said any
remaining problems on Pyongyang accessing the money were between
the bank in Macau, part of China, and the account holders.


In February, Pyongyang agreed to disable its nuclear programmes
in exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid,
as well as security and diplomatic benefits.


Stephens said the US was encouraged by a visit by IAEA chief
Mohamed ElBaradei to Pyongyang last month.

