

US President George W. Bush and top Democratic lawmakers seeking
to impose a timetable for a withdrawal from Iraq were set to meet
Wednesday to see whether an elusive compromise is possible.


Locked in a weeks-long standoff over a 120-billion-dollar
emergency funding package for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
the two camps were to meet behind closed doors at the White House
amid few signs that either side will blink.


"The consequences of failure would be death and destruction in
the Middle East and here in America," Bush warned this week. "I
hope the Democratic leadership will drop their unreasonable
demands for a precipitous withdrawal."


Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who this week
called Bush's war policy "wrongheaded," said Tuesday he had not
decided what he would tell Bush, but vowed to press for a "change
of policy" in Iraq.


"He's going to be sitting right next to me," said Reid. "Unless
he plugs his ears, he's going to have to listen."


Neither side has shown an inclination to budge, but talking is a
hopeful start, said Reid, who will be joined at the White House
by House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi.


"The Speaker and Democratic leaders will go to the White House to
express the will of the American people, a bipartisan majority of
the Congress and many senior military leaders," said Pelosi
spokesman Brendan Daly.


"They all believe the president's policy has failed and that we
must work together to fully provide for our troops, hold the
Iraqi government accountable, and find a responsible end to the
war in Iraq," he said.


Democrats plan to have the legislation on Bush's desk next week,
testing the unpopular president's threat to veto any measure that
imposes a deadline for pulling US forces out of the strife-torn
country.


But first, they must reconcile the slightly different versions
approved by the Senate and House, which they captured in November
elections partly by harnessing deep public anger at the war.


The House version would pull US combat troops out by September
2008. The Senate version would begin getting US forces out in
mid-2007 with the goal of having most of them withdrawn by March
31, 2008.


"We want to try to get it (to the president) next week," Reid
said Tuesday.


The Pentagon has said it is just weeks away from having to cut
some programs to fund military operations in Iraq and
Afghanistan, while Bush and his supporters charge that a
timetable for pulling US troops would be tantamount to conceding
defeat to terrorists.


The fierce debate in Washington comes as Bush has insisted that
his tactic of sending more US troops to Iraq has shown promising
early results, even as the US military in the war-torn country
has reported mounting US casualties.


On Monday, the military had announced the deaths of seven
personnel, bringing April's total to 50, with an average daily
toll of three, and total losses since the March 2003 invasion to
3,304, according to an AFP tally of Pentagon reports.


Around 150,000 American troops are deployed in Iraq in support of
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government, which is battling an
Al Qaeda-led Sunni insurgency in a country also blighted by a
Sunni-Shiite sectarian bloodshed.


For two months, a joint US and Iraqi force has been carrying out
a huge security operation in Baghdad to hunt down sectarian death
squads and give Maliki the time and space to reconcile the
warring factions.


Nevertheless, Baghdad has still been the scene of a series of
bomb attacks by suspected Sunni insurgents on Shiite civilian
communities.

