

Nigeria's population is exploding -- 88 million in 1991, 140
million in 2006 and the same trend set to continue -- a big
challenge for a country that, despite its oil wealth, already
cannot cater to the requirements of its citizens.


"Nigeria is approaching a population figure that her resources
may not have the ability to support", said Yinka Adesina, a
Nigerian demographer, as the country headed for presidential and
general elections this weekend.


Already disputes over land between communities or between
extended families regularly result in deaths here. Poverty and
unemployment are rampant.


Seven percent of Nigerian children never make it to the age of
one, 18 percent don't live to see their fifth birthday and those
that do make it through childhood can only expect to live to the
age of 51. Only 38 percent of the population has access to safe
drinking water.


When the National Population Commission (NPC) announced the 140
million for the 2006 census, President Olusegun Obasanjo said he
was not alarmed about the total figure because it was still in
the range of what the country was planning.


In a televised address Obasanjo nevertheless said Nigeria needs
to cut its annual population growth rate to some 2 percent from
the 3.2 percent recorded in the 2006 census.


"Even with our planned annual economic growth rate of a minimum
of 10 percent we need to seriously face up to the challenge of
moderating our population growth rate to about two percent to
enable us to double the growth of our national economy every
eight or nine years," he said.


There is a consensus among economists that the outgoing president
is understating the problem.


Merely to remain at current per capita levels, they say,
agricultural production, industrial and other economic output and
provision of health, education and other social services will all
need to double within the next 25 years.


Yet Nigerian politicians are better known for opening illegal
bank accounts abroad than for spending generously on public
services.


"It's not just the number of people. It's also the age structure
of the population," said Ernestina Coast, a demography lecturer
at the London School of Economics.


She noted that China and India were proof that countries can deal
with large numbers of people.


"(In Nigeria) even if you voluntarily reduce fertility, you are
still going to have a lot of population growth as there are
already a lot of people under 15 who are going to start having
their own children," she said.


The NPC has so far failed to make public that element of the 2006
census. But UN estimates for 2004 put more than 43 per cent of
the population as being under 14.


The United States Census Bureau says that Nigeria was already the
world's tenth most populous country back in 2000 and projects it
will rank as the fourth most populous in the world after India,
China and the US by the year 2050.


The UN projects that Nigeria will add 50 million people -- more
than one third of its current population -- between 2005 and
2020.


By 2050, still according to the UN, Africa's most populous nation
will have 288 million people, about the size of the US
population. Except that Nigeria's surface area is one-tenth of
that of the US.

