

Stunned Japanese placed flowers at the spot here where the mayor
of Nagasaki was gunned down as police probed the killer's links
to the nation's largest crime syndicate.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe branded the slaying as a challenge to
democracy, and authorities pledged to tighten security around
political leaders ahead of local polls Sunday in which the mayor
was campaigning for re-election.


The mayor, 61-year-old Iccho Ito, died early Wednesday due to
massive blood loss, hours after being shot outside his campaign
offices in Nagasaki, a city forever linked to the August 9, 1945
atomic bomb that devastated it.


Police immediately arrested a gunman who is said to be connected
to Japan's largest underworld syndicate, the Yamaguchi-gumi.


"This is not an act by a human being. If he had grievances, he
should have said them to the mayor instead of shooting him," said
Yoshinori Hirano, 57, a worker for a gas company who was near the
site of the shooting.


"To see an ordinary citizen -- an important person -- get killed
violently is very shocking because Nagasaki is the city of
peace," he said as he started to weep in public.


Ito, a political independent, was an outspoken pacifist born a
month after the atomic bomb which helped bring World War II to an
end.


Nagasaki is to press ahead with its mayoral race, accepting new
candidates until Thursday.


"This criminal act during the election campaign is a challenge to
democracy. It cannot be forgiven no matter what," Abe told
reporters in Tokyo.


Police said the assailant, 59-year-old Tetsuya Shiroo, who was
taken into custody immediately after the incident, "fired several
bullets at the back of the victim with an intent to kill him."


They said he was an executive member of a local group affiliated
with the Yamaguchi-gumi syndicate.


Shiroo had grievances with the city after his vehicle fell into a
hole and was damaged at a construction site four years ago,
police said.


But officials said they were questioning Shiroo to see if there
were other motives too.


"An official who dealt with Shiroo's complaint at the time said
it was unlikely that the accident was the real motive for his
act," a city spokesman said.


Media reports said Shiroo had had a dispute with the city over
bidding for public works and had attempted to blackmail a
previous mayor seeking money.


TV Asahi said Shiroo demanded up to 2.7 million yen (22,500
dollars) over the traffic accident but was turned down.


Japanese gangs, known as "yakuza," have interests in underworld
businesses such as showbusiness and prostitution and are also
known to engage in kickback schemes for construction projects.


Yamaguchi-gumi, headquartered in the western city of Kobe, has
about 40,000 members and accounted for some 50 percent of Japan's
underworld, according to the National Police Agency.


It has reportedly been trying to branch out from its home patch,
notably in Tokyo, leading to a turf war earlier this year that
resulted in rare shootings in the capital.


Ito's killing was the second assault on a mayor of Nagasaki.


In January 1990, a right-wing extremist shot and wounded then
mayor Hitoshi Motoshima for saying he believed the late emperor
Hirohito bore responsibility for World War II.


"I felt even more angry than when it happened to me," Motoshima
told Jiji Press, referring to the latest incident.


"Have we not committed ourselves to refuse violence no matter how
right and noble reason it is?" said Motoshima, who lost his seat
to Ito in 1995.


At the United Nations, disarmament official Randy Rydell
remembered Ito's activism against nuclear weapons.


"The world has lost a truly great leader and a champion of a
wonderful cause," Rydell told Japan's public broadcaster NHK.

