

A tantalising piece of evidence has been added to the puzzle over
so-called "hobbit" hominids found in a cave in a remote
Indonesian island, whose discovery has ignited one of the
fiercest rows in anthropology.


Explorers of the human odyssey have been squabbling bitterly
since the fossilised skeletons of tiny hominids, dubbed after the
diminutive hobbits in J.R.R. Tolkien's tale, were found on the
island of Flores in 2003.


Measuring just a metre (3.25 feet) tall and with a skull the size
of a grapefruit, the diminutive folk lived around 20,000 and
80,000 years ago and appear to have been skillful toolmakers,
hunters and butchers.


They have been honoured with the monicker Homo floresiensis by
their discoverers, who contend the cave-dwellers were a separate
species of human that descended from Homo erectus, which is also
presumed to be the ancestor of modern man.


That claim has huge implications and has been widely contested.


If true, it would mean that H. sapiens, who has been around for
around 150,000-200,000 years, would have shared the planet with
rival humans far more recently than thought.


And it implies that H. sapiens and H. floresiensis lived side by
side on Flores for a while -- and, who knows, may even have
interbred, which could have left "hobbit" genes in our DNA
heritage.


In a study that appears on Wednesday in the British journal
Biology Letters, evolutionary zoologists at Imperial College
London believe the hobbits may well have achieved their tininess
naturally, through evolutionary pressure.


The principle under scrutiny here is called the "island rule."


It stipulates that because food on a small island is limited,
smaller species do well and get bigger over time, sometimes
becoming relatively gargantuan.


But larger species, facing fierce competition for a small amount
of food, become smaller, because those members that eat less have
an advantage.


Lindell Bromham and Marcel Cardillo trawled through published
journals and online databases to see how primates performed when
subjected to the "island rule."


True enough, small primate species (ones weighing less than five
kilos, 11 pounds) all pumped up compared to their mainland
relatives -- but all the larger primates became smaller, in a
range of between 52 and 80 percent.


That fits in well with H. floresiensis, who was around 55 percent
of the mass of a modern Indonesian and probably 52 percent of an
H. erectus.


So the evidence backs the idea that the hobbits were an insular
dwarf race -- humans who became smaller, possibly after the
island separated from the mainland and left them marooned with
diminished food resources.


The authors refuse, though, to wade into the debate as to whether
the hobbits were H. erectus or H. sapiens.


Also unclear is why the hominids had a relatively undersized
brain compared to their diminutive body. A modern human child of
the same size has a much larger brain, as do pygmies.


A conflicting explanation for the small brains has been offered
by primatologists led by Robert Martin of the Field Museum in
Chicago.


He contends that the Flores hominids were not a separate species
but quite simply a tribe of H. sapiens who suffered from a
pathological condition called microcephaly, which results in a
small brain and body.


Martin also disputes the idea that these pint-sized creatures
could have wielded the sophisticated stone tools, found in the
Flores cave, which were used to butcher animals.


The hobbits tucked into a now-extinct miniature elephant,
Stegadon, that also dwarfed-down under the "island rule".

