

Until Monday, when a gunman shot dead at least 30 Virginia Tech
students and professors, Bryce's Journal on the blogosphere was
all pictures of friends and fun.


The latest chilling entry, dated Tuesday, April 17 at 8:35 am,
says: "The list has begun. I read it and reread it, double-
checking each name on Facebook to see if I could recognize any of
them.


"I probably have seen them in a class, in a dining hall, crossing
campus -- I saw the German teacher and immediately and
desperately looked up a friend who is taking German class as my
eyes began to water in anticipation. She was all right."


"Rest in peace," reads LJ blog before going on to list the names
of the dead.


As soon as news of the massacre broke, students turned to the web
to communicate and journalists flocked to their weblogs in search
of eyewitness accounts and cellphone and video reports.


The medium too enabled The New York Times to point readers to its
The Lede blog for quick updates while CNN ran amateur photos and
videos from I-Reports, its recently launched citizen journalism
initiative.


Fox News ran user-generated photos and video reports while the
local newspaper The Roanoke Times ran constantly updated online
news items from hospitals, police, university officials and the
students themselves.


"I never imagined that this is the way Virginia Tech would likely
go down in history," said a former student and current MSNBC
correspondent on the television network's website in an article
titled "Not At My Alma Mater."


The university itself, under the title "Tragedy at Virginia
Tech," updated its page every few minutes, canceling classes for
the week and at 9:15 am Tuesday identifying the South Korean
gunman responsible for the Norris Hall fatalities -- Cho Seung-
Hui, 23.


In film shot with a cellphone by Jamal Albarghouti, a student
near the hall at the time of the massacre, the sound of around 20
gunshots can be clearly heard in the 70 seconds of blurred images
and sound.


Speculators eager to grab cash after the killings snatched up
Internet domain names that could be searched for information
about the shootings, The Roanoke Times reported.


One man registered the killer's name, chosenghui.com, and was
offering it for one million dollars, as well as offering
vtmurders.com and vtmurders.info for 250,000 dollars each, the
newspaper said.


Surfing across the blogosphere, BickLickU shows footage of
students deserting both the campus and the town itself, while
collegiatetimes.com offers students countrywide information on
their friends and a guest book to the dead titled "Be Still."


LiveJournal user Paul recounts how his friend was hit by a bullet
to the hand, but on Tuesday asked reporters not to use his latest
accounts.


"There are way too many emotions flying around at this point."


A day earlier, underlining the tension as the drama unfolded, he
wrote: "Because of what's transpiring, my phone cannot connect to
the network, it's constantly busy."


In a likewise eerie reminder of the events that took place,
Bryce's Journal reported shortly before noon on Monday: "Safe and
rather scared.


"My friends and I got out of class at about 9:50. Walked across
campus. The wind blew with flurries about. Sirens were in the
distance and I saw an undercover cop car go about 80 (miles per
hour) down one of the drives.


"That was odd. In front one of the dorms, West AJ, were several
police cars, lights off and parked. We started talking about how
there are always situations that cops rush across campus for and
we never hear about.


"Then several people walked by and told us there was a shooting
and campus was closed. No one is allowed to cross the drillfield.
Hmm. We went ahead to eat some food as cops were stationed in
front, checking ID for everyone.


"I walked with my friend to his dorm to get his stuff as an
omniscient announcement echoed across campus: 'This is an
emergency. This is an emergency. Take shelter indoors
immediately. Stay away from windows and remain inside.'"

