

German pay-television companies Premiere and Arena said Wednesday
they have partially suspended a marketing deal covering the
broadcasting rights of German premier league Bundesliga matches
in face of reservations on the part of the competition
authorities.


Premiere said in a statement that it would temporarily cease
marketing Arena via satellite until the Federal Cartel Office had
completed its investigation into the two companies' cooperation
agreement.


"In view of the ongoing investigation by the cartel office,
Premiere has decided to suspend marketing of Arena to satellite
customers. The competition authorities' investigation is proving
more extensive and is taking longer than expected," said Premiere
chief executive Georg Kofler.


The suspension would not affect customers who had already bought
Bundesliga subscriptions.


But Premiere, Arena and Arena's parent company Unity Media "will
make every effort to dispel the cartel office's reservations as
quickly as possible. We want to draw up by May 31 at the latest
an agreement that poses no competition problems," Kofler said.


Under a deal announced in February, Premiere Germany's biggest
pay-television company, agreed with rival Arena on terms that
would allow it to broadcast German premier league Bundesliga
matches live.


In return, Arena -- current holder of the Bundesliga broadcasting
rights -- would receive 16.4 million new shares in Premiere,
equivalent to a 16.7-percent shareholding.


The shares would be held via an independent financial institution
to ensure that Arena had no influence on Premiere's business
strategy.


For a long time Premiere's success in soccer-mad Germany had
rested the broadcasting rights to premiere-league Bundesliga
matches.


But at the beginning of last year, the TV broadcasting rights for
the 2006-2007, 2007-2008 and 2008-2009 seasons were awarded to
upstart Arena instead, casting a deep shadow over Premiere's
earnings prospects.


Since then, Premiere engineered deals with Arena to broadcast
Bundesliga matches via cable and via the Internet.


The latest deal, which was scheduled to run until 2017 and also
covers Premiere's sports bars and cafes, will enable it to
broadcast the matches via satellite as well.

