

US Secretary of Defence Robert Gates arrived in Cairo Wednesday
for talks with President Hosni Mubarak on the Middle East peace
process and weapons sales.


"I'm going to be interested in President Mubarak's views on the
situation in region," said Gates, speaking ahead of departure to
Cairo.


The defence secretary, on a Middle East tour that began on Monday
in Amman, said he will also discuss with the Egyptian leader
events in Iraq, Iran's growing strength in the region and the
situation in Lebanon.


His trip to Egypt was delayed by a day due to the fierce
sandstorm that closed down the Cairo airport for several hours on
Tuesday.


Gates held talks with King Abdullah II in Amman on Tuesday,
during which the situation in Iraq and Iran's growing influence
in the region were discussed.


Similar topics are expected to be on the agenda at Wednesday's
meeting with Mubarak.


"I'm interested in hearing his thoughts as an elder statesman in
the region," said Gates. Mubarak has been president since 1981.


"I also will take advantage of that opportunity to encourage his
support" for the Iraqi government of Prime Minister Nuri Al-
Maliki, "and for the reconciliation process in Iraq ... and
whatever he can do to encourage others in the region to invest in
Iraq," Gates said.


Egypt will host a gathering of ministers of Iraq's neighbors in
Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3 and 4. The event will include five of
Iraq's six neighbours -- Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Syria and
Turkey -- plus Bahrain, Egypt, the Arab League, the Organisation
of Islamic Conference and the United Nations.


Iran has not confirmed its participation. Tehran is demanding the
release of Iranian personnel captured in Iraq. US officials say
the captives are elite Iranian commandos; Iran says they are
diplomats.


Other participants at the event will include Britain, China,
France, Russia and the United States.


"The neighbours conference was an important step," said Gates.
"Anything that the neighbours can do to help strengthen the
current government of Iraq will be a contribution."


A senior Defence Department official speaking on condition of
anonymity said that Gates will also "encourage Egypt to reassert
its leadership role" on the Israeli-Palestinian issue.


Arms sales will also be on the agenda.


The Egyptians are "especially sensitive" to a possible drop in
military aid due to the rise in US expense in Iraq, the Defence
Department official said.


Gates "will reassure them that regardless of the war our
relationship with Egypt is a long one and is one that will
continue."


Concerning military aid, Gates will encourage the Egyptians "to
(make a) transition from the post-Soviet dependency on
conventional weaponry to something more expeditionary, more
related to counter-terrorism and focused on the non- state
actors" in the region, the official said.


The annual US military and economic aid was partly initiated to
reward Egypt for the 1979 peace treaty it signed with Israel.
Since then Egypt has received upwards of 30 billion dollars in US
military assistance.


Egypt, however, is also one of the main sources of foreign
fighters entering Iraq.


US Major General William Caldwell told reporters in Baghdad in
June that US forces had "several hundred foreign fighters in
captivity ... and the greatest number come out of Egypt."


The top four main sources of foreign fighters in Iraq are Egypt,
Syria, Sudan and Saudi Arabia, Caldwell said.

