

Driving past row upon row of softly swaying palms and acres of
lush green farmland, you could be a million miles from the smog-
choked cityscape of Bangkok.


Down a sunbaked track, 80 kilometres (50 miles) from the Thai
capital, lies an idyllic rural smallholding where, against a
kaleidoscope of colour, farm workers in wide-brimmed hats are
harvesting organically grown produce.


The produce will be taken to a small warehouse nearby where
workers carefully pack freshly picked lettuces, tomatoes and
Chinese vegetables into airtight bags for delivery to health-
conscious Bangkok consumers.


Rai Plook Rak Farm, in Ratchaburi province, is one of many
certified organic farms that have sprung up across Thailand in
recent years hoping for a slice of the burgeoning market for all
things chemical-free.


Once considered a niche market for eccentrics, "organic" has
exploded into an international phenomenon worth an annual 26
billion dollars (19 billion euros). And Thai farmers are
cultivating the trend.


In 2005 the Thai organic market was estimated at 805 million baht
(23 million dollars), up 145 percent from 2002.


In 2005, about 21,700 hectares (53,600 acres) of farmland was
certified as organic, a 900 percent increase from four years
earlier.


"I have really noticed the increasing popularity of organic
food," said farm owner Kaan Ritkhachorn, who began cultivating
the plot eight years ago.


"Everybody is becoming a lot more health-conscious. A decade ago
people didn't really know it existed."


Ninety percent of the farm's vegetables go to supermarkets in
Bangkok, with 10 percent exported, mainly to Singapore.


The shift in Thai attitudes towards organic food is clear. In
2005, domestic consumption was estimated to have overtaken
exports, easing concerns in the industry about fluctuations in
international markets.


Thai consumers of organic food are generally urban middle-class
families, with one or two children, and an average to high salary
for the country.


At a supermarket in downtown Bangkok on a recent afternoon,
shoppers thronged the organic vegetable aisle.


One customer, English teacher Krissana Tonechai, said she thought
organic food was a healthier option.


"There are fewer chemicals, and it looks cleaner," she said. "I
think people buy it for different reasons. Some get it for
health, and some for fashion."


The huge variety of grains, fruit and vegetables in the Thai diet
are all represented in the organic market. The kingdom's renowned
jasmine rice is the food most grown by organic producers, along
with a wide array of vegetables, tropical fruit, herbal tea,
tapioca and wheat.


Export markets are a much tougher nut to crack, however. While
exports to the European Union have steadily increased, a tangle
of red tape threatens to turn Thailand's field of organic dreams
into a boggy marsh.


The EU is the world's biggest single market for organic produce,
with an estimated value of 280 billion baht (8 billion dollars)
in 2004. But to get permission to export to European markets, a
product generally needs to be certified by a private body in each
country.


"This is a serious barrier even for major exporters," said Wyn
Ellis, coauthor of a report into Thailand's organic export
potential.


"If a company has three or four major export markets, securing
and maintaining several certifications imposes a major
administrative and cost burden."


And other challenges remain, said Ellis, such as inadequate
research on organic production, volatile supply and ensuring
quality control -- not to mention the high cost of conversion to
organic agriculture.


The situation is worse still for small organic farmers, he added,
as costs and certification requirements raise the already high
barriers to participation, and can exclude smallholder producers
from export markets.


Overall, it is early days for Thailand's organic produce. Almost
19,000 tonnes of organic rice were produced in Thailand in 2005
-- a tiny fraction of a total of five million tonnes of rice
exported that year.

