

Birmingham boss Steve Bruce admitted he was feeling the pressure
as his side edged closer to a return to the Premiership by
beating Leicester 2-1 at the Walkers Stadium.


Bruce's Blues had to survive a late fightback by their
relegation-threatened opponents before clinching three points
which lifted them above Derby into the second automatic promotion
spot -- behind Championship leaders Sunderland.


Early goals from Radhi Jaidi and Sebastian Larsson should have
made life comfortable for Bruce's men.


But Shaun Newton's free-kick gave Leicester hope seven minutes
from time and the visitors were hanging on desperately at the
end.


"We won, just, but we made it a bit hairy for ourselves," Bruce
admitted after watching his side claim a win that, with only
three rounds of matches left to play, leaves his side and
Sunderland as favourites for the top two slots in the division.


"There is always going to be tension and edginess in matches like
this when you're going for promotion," Bruce added. "And
Leicester made a real fight of it in the second half.


"You are supposed to enjoy moments like this but it was bad
enough on Saturday against Southampton and this was just as bad
again," he added before praising the efforts of goalkeeper Colin
Doyle.


"He made one fantastic save tonight and he has done very well.
He's a quiet lad but has a huge presence."


Leicester boss Nigel Worthington voiced his frustration at his
side's failure to draw a line under a winless run that has now
reached ten matches, but predicted that a win is just around the
corner.


"In the second half we showed great energy, good quality and we
might have scored more than one goal.


"With that sort of performance we will ensure this club stays in
the Championship. We've got to make sure we are up for a fight.
Nigel Worthington's up for the fight and if the team is up for
the fight we will be staying in this division."


In Tuesday's other Championship match, Burnley notched up an
impressive 3-0 win over Norwich, with Andy Gray, Ade Akinbiyi and
Wade Elliot finding the net in a match that had no bearing on
relegation or promotion issues.

