

The UN Security Council on Tuesday asked UN chief Ban Ki-moon to
send an independent mission to investigate reports of illegal
arms movements across the Lebanese-Syrian border.


The council "expresses its serious concern at mounting
information by Israel and another state" of arms smuggling across
the border in violation of UN resolution 1701, it said.


The statement was unanimously adopted by its 15 members and read
by Britain, the council chair this month.


It called on Ban "to dispatch at the earliest, in close liaison
with the Lebanese government, an independent mission to fully
assess the monitoring of the border."


The French-drafted text took note of the Syrian government's
assertion that it has taken measures to prevent the alleged
illegal arms movements and reiterated its call to Damascus to
"take further measures to reinforce controls at the border."


Syria has denied that arms are making their way over the border
into Lebanon and warned against any moves to station
international troops along the frontier in Lebanon.


Security Council resolution 1701, which ended the 34-day war an
between Israel and Hezbollah guerillas in south Lebanon last
August, called for the prevention of illegal arms sales and
smuggling operations in Lebanon.


It also called for the disarming of all militias, in a reference
to Hezbollah as well as Palestinian militant groups.


Tuesday's statement was adopted as Ban left for a four-nation
overseas tour that will take him to Syria next Tuesday after
visiting Italy, Switzerland and Qatar.


The text also noted progress recently made by a cartographer in
developing "an accurate territorial definition" of the disputed
Shebaa Farms area.


The disputed Shebaa Farms is a small plot of land covering about
20 square kilometers (eight square miles) on the border of
Israel, Lebanon and Syria.


It was captured by Israel as part of the Golan Heights, seized
from Syria, during the 1967 war, but is now claimed by Lebanon
with Damascus's approval.


The statement noted Ban's expectation that the technical work on
the demarcation will be completed by mid-June and urged all
parties to cooperate with the cartographer by providing any
relevant material in their possession.


France's UN Ambassador Jean-Marc de la Sabliere welcomed the
adoption of the text, saying it also reflected "the council's
concern over continuing Israeli air incursions in Lebanon and the
serious issue of arms movements at the Syrian- Lebanese border."


The statement reiterated the council's "deep concern at the
continuing Israeli violations of Lebanese air space," in
violation of Resolution 1701.


Israel says the flights are necessary to monitor what it charges
is rampant arms smuggling to Hezbollah from neighboring Syria.


The Council also noted with "profound concern that there has been
no progress" on the issue of the return of two Israeli soldiers
abducted by Hezbollah last July and reiterates its call for
"their immediate and unconditional release."


It also encouraged efforts "aimed at urgently settling the issue
of the Lebanese prisoners detained in Israel."

