

An Israeli survivor of the Holocaust who was shot dead as he
tried to protect his students.


An Indian professor of civil and environmental engineering who
had devoted his life to the teaching community.


A Lebanese student who loved dancing and wanted to help make the
world a better place by studying international relations.


A Canadian teacher of French who had moved to the United States
with her husband, a fellow academic.


A Peruvian student who decided to switch colleges from Florida to
Virginia Tech because it was more prestigious.


Cho Seung-Hui's murderous killing spree left an international
roll call of the dead, reflecting the apparently indiscriminate
nature of his chillingly methodical slaughter.


Although Virginia authorities were yet to publicly identify every
one of the 32 victims, details about the fatalities gradually
emerged on Tuesday, from Beirut to New Delhi, from Tel Aviv to
Ottawa.


Among the dead was Liviu Librescu, a 76-year-old Israeli
professor of engineering and mathematics, who had survived the
horrors of the Holocaust as a teenager in Romania.


Reports said Librescu died trying to block Cho's entry to his
classroom, buying his students precious time as they scrambled to
force open windows and jump to safety from two storys up.


Rabbi Marvin Hier, of the Simon Wiesenthal Center and Museum of
Tolerance in Los Angeles, described Librescu's death as
"unbelievably" ironic, coming as the world marked Holocaust
Memorial Day.


"Here's a Holocaust survivor who lived through the period when so
many stood by silently and did nothing," Hier said.


"When evil stopped at his door and he saw this murderer was going
after his students, he decided that he would not be a bystander.
It's quite remarkable."


While student witnesses testified to the circumstances
surrounding Librescu's death, the relatives of other victims were
looking for answers.


Joseph Samaha, whose daughter Reema was one of two Lebanese
students to die on Monday, said he still had not been allowed to
formally identify her body.


He had feared the worst after frantic telephone calls to his
daughter's cell phone on Monday morning were not returned, and he
later discovered she was taking a French lesson in the Norris
building when Cho struck.


Samaha's last contact with Reema was on Sunday, when he visited
the university with his wife to watch his daughter perform in a
dance event.


"She was a young lady that was growing in every way," Samaha told
CNN. "She found her niche here at the university. She loved what
she was doing."


Samaha said his daughter wanted to be an urban planning major
with a minor in international relations "because she thought she
could solve the problems of the world."


The mother of 21-year-old Peruvian student Daniel Perez Cueva was
still struggling to accept her son's death.


"I still cannot make sense of it," Betty Cueva told Peruvian
radio in Lima. "I want to believe that my son is at the
university and will come home."


In India, the family of G.V. Loganathan, a 51-year-old professor
of civil engineering, spoke of their grief after the academic was
named among the dead.


"He devoted his life to the teaching community. It's very sad
that he has to lose this life," Loganathan's brother G.V.
Palanivel told the private NDTV network from the southern state
of Tamil Nadu.


In Ottawa, Prime Minister Stephen Harper addressed parliament as
Canadian teacher Jocelyne Couture-Nowak was confirmed among the
dead.


Couture-Nowak had moved to Virginia Tech with her husband, a
horticulture professor.

