

Residents from a Marshall Islands atoll exposed to fallout from
US nuclear tests have been awarded more than one billion dollars
of compensation, but may never receive a cent of it.


The Marshall Islands-based Nuclear Claims Tribunal, which issued
the ruling Tuesday, has virtually no money to pay the award and
has labeled United States- provided compensation "manifestly
inadequate."


The ruling was issued more than 15 years after the claim was
first filed by leaders from Rongelap, a low-lying western Pacific
coral atoll engulfed in snow- like nuclear fallout from the 1954
Bravo test at nearby Bikini atoll.


Bravo was the biggest ever US nuclear test and was 1,000 times
more powerful than the atomic bombs which devastated the Japanese
cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945.


The tribunal was set up in 1988 under an agreement with the US
when the Marshall Islands gained independence from its former
colonial master.


Since 1991 it has paid personal injury claims of Marshall
Islanders affected by 67 US atmospheric nuclear tests conducted
in the Marshall Islands between 1946 and 1958.


But the tribunal halted payments in 2006 for lack of money. A
Tribunal official said the compensation trust fund provided by
the US has dropped from its original 1986 amount of 150 million
dollars to just one million dollars, which is expected to be
exhausted by next year.


Rongelap mayor James Matayoshi said that the islanders plan to
file suit against the United States in the US Court of Claims to
seek enforcement of the tribunal's 1.03 billion dollar award.


The award is the largest of the four "class action" awards made
by the tribunal, none of which have been paid because of the lack
of funds.


Bikini and Enewetak islanders filed suit last year against the US
government in the Court of Claims to get enforcement of their
tribunal awards. A hearing is expected to take place on April 23
in Washington.


The tribunal has already issued awards totaling over one billion
dollars for claims filed by Enewetak and Bikini atolls, which
were the sites of the 67 nuclear tests, and for Utrik, another
atoll that was hit by fallout from the Bravo test.


Rongelap islanders were evacuated from their island home for
three years after the Bravo test but were exposed to more
radiation when repatriated to their island by the US in 1957, the
tribunal said.


"Although the people were assured that it was safe to return to
Rongelap in 1957, it was evident that the US knew Rongelap was
still contaminated at that time," tribunal judges James Plasman
and Gregory Danz, both Americans, said in their ruling.


The judges said that the people "came to feel like guinea pigs,
used for experimentation by the US."


Rongelap Islanders evacuated themselves from the atoll in 1985,
fearing continued radiation exposure.


The islanders "suffered emotional distress and a degraded quality
of life as a consequence of the contamination of their property,"
the ruling said.


The award covers loss of property value from radiation
contamination, the costs of a clean-up to allow future
resettlement, and hardship and suffering.

