

A Pakistani terror suspect extradited from South Africa and held
for 18 months here without charge has been detained for alleged
links to the 2005 London suicide attacks, his lawyer said
Wednesday.


Khalid Mehmood Rashid, 25, appeared before a federal review board
at the Supreme Court in Islamabad for the first time last week
and his detention was extended by three months, his lawyer
Hashmat Habib told AFP.


London-based human rights group Amnesty International said Rashid
was handed over to Pakistan by South Africa in November 2005, and
was in the custody of Pakistan's intelligence service as of April
16.


"There is no documented charge against him but my understanding
is that he is wanted in connection with the July 7, 2005 attacks
in Britain," lawyer Habib told AFP.


A security source confirmed that Khalid's contacts to the July 7
bombers were being investigated.


Four suicide bombers, three of ethnic Pakistani origin, blew
themselves up on London's transport system on July 7, 2005,
killing themselves and 52 others and wounding more than 700.


At least two of the four bombers -- Mohammed Sidique Khan,
Shezhad Tanweer, Jermaine Lindsay and Hasib Hussein -- were known
to have visited Pakistan in the months before the attacks.


Amnesty said Rashid appeared before the review board on April 12
and authorities were ordered to transfer him to a prison in
Rawalpindi, and allow him access to his family and medical care,
citing unidentified Pakistani sources.


It said he was being held for his alleged links with terrorism
and anti-state elements.


"Mr Rashid has already suffered 18 months of secret detention and
it is totally unacceptable for the Pakistan authorities to
continue to deny him access to his lawyer, family and medical
care," said Erwin Van Der Borght, acting director of Amnesty's
Africa programme.


"This situation must be immediately addressed and Mr Rashid be
brought to justice in a fair trial or released without delay."


Amnesty added in a statement that it was "extremely concerned"
for Rashid's well-being.


Last year, Amnesty called on South African President Thabo Mbeki
to establish an independent inquiry that would probe the
circumstances surrounding Rashid's handover.


It also demanded in 2006 that Rashid face trial in Pakistan or be
released from custody immediately.

