

New Zealand goes into Friday's Anzac Test against a battle-
hardened Australia with one of the most inexperienced teams ever
to represent the Kiwis on a rugby league field.


New Zealand will blood three 20-year-old youngsters at Lang Park
in Brisbane in a Test side led by new captain Roy Asotasi, who
replaces long-time skipper Ruben Wiki.


The international retirements last season of Wiki, Stacey Jones
and Nigel Vagana deprive New Zealand of a trio that had almost
140 Tests between them, leaving the Kiwis reliant on their rising
stars.


The debutants are Parramatta's rookie fullback Krisnan Inu,
Brisbane utility Greg Eastwood and Warriors prop Sam Rapira, who
will start from the bench.


Coach Brian McClennan predicted they would face a baptism of fire
against a hugely experienced Australia side but said their
teammates would rally round to support them.


While Australia scored a crushing 50-12 win in the fixture last
year, McClennan said New Zealand were aiming for the form that
defeated the Kangaroos in the 2005 Tri-Nations series and ran
them close in last year's tournament.


He said New Zealand wanted to continue to challenge Australia's
dominance of international league.


"We are proud of what we've done for international league in
recent years and we'll be doing our damnedest on Friday night to
keep it that way," McClennan said.


Australian selectors have largely stuck with the team that won
last year's Tri- Nations, dropping out-of-form Bulldogs prop Mark
O'Meley and the injured trio of Greg Inglis, Mark Gasnier and
Luke O'Donnell.


Veteran Australia forward Petero Civoniceva said he expected the
young New Zealand side to still pursue the bone-jarring big hits
that have become the Kiwi trademark in trans-Tasman league
clashes.


Civoniceva said Australia would not be intimidated by the
anticipated Kiwi onslaught.


"Ever since I started my rep career and played against the Kiwis
that's always been their big go," said Civoniceva.


"They lift off a big hit and nothing will change there.


"I'm sure they'll be lining their big guys up and trying to take
a few of us out -- it's nothing new to me."


Kiwi enforcer Frank Pritchard suggested he and teammate Sonny
Bill Williams would be out to cut down some of Australia's big
reputations.


"The Aussies are big names, big players, so I'm going to go out
there and do my thing and try to rev up the boys," he said.


Online betting agency Centrebet has Australia as heavy
favourites, paying 3.25 dollars for every dollar wagered on a New
Zealand victory, compared to 1.35 dollars for a Kangaroos' win.


But Williams rejected the underdog tag.


"It's a good feeling when you're coming into camp and you don't
feel like you're an underdog ... the boys are going out there to
show the Kiwis are the number one side in the world. We are going
out there not just to play but to win."


Australia hooker Cameron Smith said New Zealand would gain a new
dimension with the return of Williams and Benji Marshall, who
both missed last year's fixture.


"They're probably a bit more dangerous than they were last year
with those two guys," Smith said.


"They're just more dangerous in that we haven't really seen them
play."


New Zealand (1 to 13) - Krisnan Inu, Jake Webster, Iosia Soliola,
Simon Mannering, Manu Vatuvei, Benji Marshall, Ben Roberts,
Nathan Cayless, Dene Halatau, Roy Asotasi (captain), Sonny Bill
Williams, Tony Puletua, David Fa'alogo.


Interchange: David Faiumu, Sam Rapira, Greg Eastwood, Frank
Pritchard.


Australia (1 to 13) - Karmichael Hunt, Brent Tate, Jamie Lyon,
Justin Hodges, Matt King, Darren Lockyer (captain), Johnathan
Thurston, Brent Kite, Cameron Smith, Petero Civoniceva, Willie
Mason, Nathan Hindmarsh, Andrew Ryan.


Interchange: Luke Bailey, Shaun Berrigan, Steve Simpson, Anthony
Tupou.

