

Even before its opening here Thursday, Hot Docs, the largest
documentary film festival in North America, can be assured of at
least one controversial film -- one that aims to debunk Michael
Moore.


"Manufacturing Dissent," about the life and work of the Oscar-
and Palme d'Or- winning filmmaker of hits such as "Bowling for
Columbine" and "Fahrenheit 911," shows him twisting the truth and
using footage out of context.


The film, which will be shown on Sunday and Tuesday, caused a
stir at the South by Southwest film and music festival in Austin,
Texas, in March.


Criticism of Moore's films has been loud and constant -- but it
has come mainly from the right, not from his own ideological
camp. "We agreed with his politics," said Rick Caine, who made
the film with his partner, Debbie Melnyk.


And no one has done more for documentary films, he adds.


"'Roger and Me' was hilarious, and we cheered Michael Moore when
he criticized the war in Iraq at the 2003 Oscars, when few people
did," said Caine in an interview with AFP.


Caine and Melnyk, who are married, had just finished a film about
tycoon Conrad Black. "We wanted to do a film about someone we
liked, someone we wanted to celebrate," he said.


But they soon discovered a trail of broken promises to
colleagues, exaggerations of facts, and footage used out of
context.


They considered abandoning the film, but had already accepted
funding so they continued, attempting to get some on-camera
answers in the same way Moore did in "Roger and Me" with then-
General Motors chairman Rogers Smith.


Although the film is based on Smith's refusal to speak to Moore,
the two met twice, says former friend and activist Jim Musselman
in "Manufacturing Dissent."


Musselman, a lawyer who has worked with US activist Ralph Nader
to promote the use of air bags in automobiles, was a friend and
fellow activist with Moore in unemployment-plagued Flint,
Michigan.


The film shows an embittered Musselman claiming that Moore had
asked him to lie about the meetings with Smith.


Other colleagues, including actress Jeanine Garafalo, praise him
for his kindness and showmanship, and for being uncompromising in
his criticism.


"I believe Moore really did care about Flint, that he was coming
from a pure place," remarked Caine. But it was much more dramatic
to have Roger refusing to meet with him," he said. This film,
Caine added, taught him more about documentary ethics than any of
his preceding five films.


Another telling moment for the team was in "Bowling for
Columbine," when Moore, praising Canada, claims that the country
is so safe that Canadians do not have to lock their doors.


"I lock my door, so does everyone I know," Caine remarked, adding
that 25 percent of his North American ticket sales come from
Canada.


The film turns into a kind of "Michael and Me" with filmmaker
Debbie Melnyk appearing at Moore's speaking engagements and
trying to get an interview.


In the film Moore looks surprised, insists he likes Canadians --
he even hugs a blushing Melnyk at one point -- but claims he is
too busy for a formal interview. He tells her to email him, but
her requests were never answered.


At a Moore appearance at Kent State University in Ohio, which the
filmmakers entered with fabricated TV-station identification,
Moore's sister, Anne, knocks down Caine's camera and they are
told to leave.


Caine and his partner are aware that the film could be used by
the right-wing media to discredit Moore's political convictions.
"On Fox TV we said that if you're going to talk about misleading
the people, you have to say that (US President) George Bush
misled the country into going to war with Iraq."


The Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Film Festival
opens Thursday and will present 130 films in 10 days.

