

Middle-order batsman Ramnaresh Sarwan is all set to be named as
the West Indies captain for their next month's tour of England
replacing the under-fire Brian Lara.


The enigmatic Lara is likely to face the axe after West Indies'
unimpressive World Cup performance which saw them losing four of
their Super Eights matches.


There are chances Lara, who will play his last two one-day
internationals this week, may not be selected at all for the tour
of England in May where the West Indies play four Tests and three
one-day internationals.


"I think the two names of Sarwan and Daren Ganga have appeared.
Sarwan has been the vice-captain, so it's up to the Board to
decide on the recommendations made by the selectors," said former
captain and current manager Clive Lloyd.


Sarwan has been Lara's deputy since 2003 and many believe he is
the right choice to carry the West Indies team forward.


Sarwan last week suggested he was ready for the responsibility.


"If given the opportuntiy I will grab it with both hands," said
the 26-year-old from Guyana, who can follow in the footsteps of
countrymen like Rohan Kanhai, Lloyd, Alvin Kallicharan and
Shivnarine Chanderpaul as captains.


He has led the West Indies in four one-day internationals,
winning three.


The 28-year-old Ganga has led the West Indies 'A' team and
skippered the Trinidad and Tobago side to a domestic one-day
tournament win in January this year.


When asked of Lara's chances not being selected at all, Lloyd
replied: "That is up to the selectors, I am not among them."


Lara, who led the West Indies in 47 Tests with just ten wins
during his three spells, has been under fire for team's failures
and among his most severe critics has been former bowling great
Michael Holding.


"Lara has to step aside, not necessary as player, but as a
captain," Holding said earlier this month.


"He needs to co-operate with the new captain and allow him to
have a free hand to take the West Indies forward."


Even veteran commentator-cum writer Tony Cozier sided with
Holding.


"During his long and otherwise celebrated career Lara has issued
seven public apologies for his own indiscretions. The eighth,
last week, was on behalf of his team," wrote Cozier of Lara
saying sorry after his team's 67-run defeat against South Africa
in Grenada.


"Yet he has been thrice persuaded to return to the leadership,"
said Cozier of Lara who was first appointed captain in 1998.


Lara also took over from Carl Hooper after West Indies's first-
round exit from the 2003 World Cup in South Africa and then from
Shivnarine Chanderpaul early last year.


Lara was also at the center of a contract row between players and
the West Indies Cricket Board and had his tiffs with the
selectors, the most recent being during the Super Eights matches.


Another former fast bowler Colin Croft feels the time is right
for a change.


"Sarwan must be given the job. I would also like to think that
Denesh Ramdin must be groomed for future," said Croft.

