

Sri Lankan authorities have issued a thinly veiled death threat
against a newspaper editor for reporting on military excesses and
human rights abuses, a media rights group said Wednesday.


The local Free Media Movement (FMM) said Sri Lanka's defence
secretary Gotabhaya Rajapakse, the younger brother of President
Mahinda Rajapakse, threatened Champika Liyanarachchi, the editor
of the Daily Mirror on Tuesday.


The FMM, which comprises journalists and rights activists, said
Rajapakse had also said that the editor should not expect any
security from the government to protect her.


"Given the volatile situation in the country, the FMM also fears
that this threat sends a chilling message to the media community
at large in Sri Lanka," the group said.


The Daily Mirror did not report the threat but another paper, the
Morning Leader, said Rajapakse had "criticised" the Mirror editor
for a series of "anti- government" articles.


Rajapakse is alleged to have telephoned another reporter and
"continued his vicious tirade by castigating the reporter and
expressing his severe displeasure."


"This gross misconduct of a high-placed public official clearly
demonstrates the challenges facing free media in Sri Lanka
today," the FMM said, adding that government leaders and close
allies are pressuring the media.


"The FMM urgently and firmly requests the government to ensure
that loose tongues and wild imaginings of its ministers and
allies are kept in check by educating them on the need to secure
and strengthen free media as a vital foundation of democratic
governance."


There was no immediate reaction from the government.


Media organisations have described Sri Lanka as the most
dangerous place on earth for journalists after Iraq, and rights
groups say that critics of government policy are treated as
traitors and enemies of the state.


Although there is no formal censorship imposed, Sri Lankan
authorities prevent journalists from travelling to areas held by
rebels, who are waging a separatist conflict that has killed more
than 60,000 people since 1972.

