

Ernie Els and Retief Goosen will be aiming to ease very different
forms of Masters heartache when they tee off at the BMW Asian
Open here on Thursday, as a high-class field aims to impose more
misery.


The smooth-swinging South African duo walked off the famed
fairways at Augusta National this month with their hopes of
securing another major title blown away in vastly different, but
perhaps similarly painful, circumstances.


Els, the world number five, missed the cut by two strokes, an
extraordinary failure for the two-time US Open champion and
former British Open title-holder who last had such a poor
performance at Augusta way back in 1995.


Goosen, meanwhile, led the Masters going into the final round,
only to finish joint runner-up two strokes behind American Zach
Johnson.


The "Big Easy" and the "Goose" have travelled to the other side
of the world, looking to erase their Masters trauma by winning
the 2.3-million-dollar BMW Asian Open at the Tomson Pudong Golf
Club in Shanghai.


The tournament, co-sanctioned by the European and Asian tours,
has attracted one of its strongest fields, with Englishman Paul
Casey, Scotland's Colin Montgomerie and Denmark's Tomas Bjorn
among the Ryder Cup talent on show.


Rising Spanish hope Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano is back to defend
his BMW crown after a play-off win over Sweden's Henrik Stenson
last year, with his countryman and 2004 champion Miguel Angel
Jimenez also in China.


All the players in the top 10 of the Asian tour's standings are
also competing this week, with Chinese hopes resting on veteran
Zhang Lianwei and 2007 Singapore Masters champion Liang Wenchong.


Goosen, ranked eight in the world and currently sitting second in
the European Order of Merit, said he was approaching his near-
miss at Augusta as a positive, rather than dwelling on the missed
opportunity for a third major.


"It was a positive thing," he said. "I played well at the weekend
and sort of got my game going, which gives me a boost for the
events coming up," Goosen told reporters after arriving in
Shanghai.


After the Masters, Els returned to form at the US PGA Verizon
Heritage tournament in South Carolina, but suffered more pain
when he finished second to unheralded American Boo Weekley who
chipped in for par on the last two holes.


Casey, the dynamic 29-year-old who finished second on the
European Order of Merit last year to Irishman Padraig Harrington,
was full of confidence about his chances this week after
finishing equal 10th at the Masters.


"I feel fresh, I feel ready after playing the Masters a couple of
weeks ago, and if I continue the good golf I played there I
should be in for a good week," the world No.12 said on Tuesday.


Eight-time European Order of Merit champion Montgomerie was
equally upbeat, pointing to the tight fairways as one area of
potential advantage over the rest of the field.


"It is a demanding driving course and therefore I should do quite
well as I drive the ball quite straight, straigher than the
norm," the 43-year-old said.


Adding some spice to the tournament will be John Daly of the
United States. The two-time major winner has made just three cuts
this year but sponsors are banking on his big-hitting and
charisma to pull in the crowds.


Among the other notable Asian names in Shanghai are Thailand's
Thongchai Jaidee and Thaworn Wiratchant, as well as India's Shiv
Kapur.

