

South Africa captain Graeme Smith believes his team have finally
buried their chokers' tag after storming into the World Cup semi-
finals.


The Proteas raced to a nine-wicket victory over England here on
Tuesday to join defending champions Australia, New Zealand and
Sri Lanka in the semi-finals.


Australia lead the Super Eights table with 12 points from six
matches, followed by New Zealand (10/6), Sri Lanka (8/6) and
South Africa (8/7).


When asked whether his team had finally shed the chokers' tag,
Smith said: "I guess I can say yes. It was a big question (before
the game). It was a big pressure day and I think we really
demolished it."


South Africa had earned the dubious "chokers" tag after losing
pressure matches in the past, but this time they raised the level
of their performance when it mattered most.


Smith said his team needed to keep the momentum irrespective of
who they play in the semi-final in St Lucia on April 25 where the
pitch is expected to be low and slow.


However, it looks more than likely that they will face defending
champions Australia for a place in the final.


"A semi-final is a semi-final. It's a big game, no matter who you
play. It's one game away from the final and two away from winning
the World Cup, so again it'll be another pressure day," he said.


"I guess it (the pitch) is another challenge, a challenge to win
on a slow pitch. We just hope we come up with another big
performance and get into the final. It's a big game for us.


"The team is on a high now and the momentum is good and dressing-
room is really upbeat and positive."


The South African captain said he was confident his side could
beat England in the match both the teams needed to win to boost
their chances of making it to the semi-finals.


"The way we played today we consistently believed that we can
beat England. Our skills were superb," said Smith.


"We built pressure from the word go and bowled in the right
areas. Andrew Hall's second spell when the ball was reverse-
swinging was a great spell."


Fast bowler Hall was named man of the match for his maiden five-
wicket haul as South Africa dismissed England for a paltry 154
before surpassing their rivals' total with more than 30 overs to
spare in a one-sided contest.


Smith himself led from the front, hammering a robust 58-ball 89
not out with 13 fours. He was involved in an 85-run stand for the
opening wicket with AB de Villiers (42) to put his team on course
for victory.


"I think in big games every captain and frontline player want to
perform well. It was terrific to see the way the boys performed
today," said Smith.


"Hopefully, we win that game (semi-final) and come back to
Barbados for the final. The atmosphere today was terrific. The
pitch has got good pace and bounce, which is always nice to see."


South Africa had lost to Bangladesh and New Zealand in their
previous matches, but Smith said his side were motivated to do
well in the crucial game.


"Our motivation was that we knew the sort of cricket that we can
play and we just wanted to play it. We hadn't really achieved
that so far in this tournament and I think we achieved it today,"
he said.


"We were superbly disciplined with the ball and to bowl them out
for 154 was a great effort. We were led by Hall and then we just
finished it off with the bat."

