

Asia's richest woman Nina Wang was given an extravagant funeral
send-off Wednesday attended by many of Hong Kong's rich and
powerful, amid feverish speculation over who will inherit her
fortune.


Shanghai-born Wang, who was famously frugal, died of cancer aged
69 earlier this month with an estate estimated as worth at least
4.2 billion US dollars.


She left no heirs, and some newspapers here have speculated she
might have left all or a large part of her wealth to her personal
fortune-teller.


Wang's funeral, organised by a committee of 45 businessmen and
politicians including Asia's richest man, Li Ka-Shing, was
shrouded in secrecy. Reporters were barred from the event venue
in central Hong Kong before the ceremony.


Scores of people watched from across the street as the hearse
carrying her body left for the crematorium afterwards, festooned
with white orchids and red roses.


Police sources said Wang's family had booked the entire first
floor of the funeral home, joining two halls together for the
ceremony.


Local press said her family was spending millions of HK dollars
on flowers for the ceremony, and a sea of floral wreaths
accumulated outside the funeral home.


Newspapers said the hall would be decorated in red and white, her
favourite colours, although red is traditionally symbolic of
celebrations like weddings.


White orchids, white lilies, peonies and white chrysanthemums
were to adorn the parlour, reports said in advance, along with
more than 1,000 red roses in the shape of a heart and more roses
covering her coffin.


A 10-foot (three-metre) memorial plaque lined with white
chrysanthemums was carried into the funeral home.


The ceremony was not open to the public and Wang's company
Chinachem would not comment on the funeral arrangements.


Among those who gathered for the funeral was casino tycoon
Stanley Ho while Hong Kong's chief executive, Donald Tsang, paid
his respects Tuesday.


Wang, who was nicknamed "Little Sweetie" because of her trademark
pigtails resembling a Japanese comic character, developed
Chinachem into a real estate empire after the disappearance in
1990 of her husband Teddy.


He was believed kidnapped and was officially declared dead nine
years later although his body has never been found.


Nina Wang steadfastly refused to believe he was dead, and her
death notice was placed in his name.


Wang never publicly named a beneficiary. Her lawyer, Jonathan
Midgely, told the South China Morning Post she had left her
fortune to just one person, but that he would not reveal the
identity of the person until after the funeral.


The Standard newspaper here reported Wednesday that Wang may have
left her money to her fortune teller Tony Chan.


Quoting its sister publication Eastweek, the Standard said
another possible beneficiary was barrister Ramesh Sujanami, who
helped Wang in her legal battle with her father-in-law to gain
control of her husband's fortune.


Under her control Chinachem was transformed into a multi-billion
US dollar empire with more than 200 office towers and 400
companies around the world.


Forbes magazine last year estimated her personal fortune at 4.2
billion US dollars, 154th in its ranking of the world's richest
people, but reports here say in reality it was worth many
millions more than that.

