

Asian sport has taken giant strides and the Beijing Olympics will
be a watershed for the region as it moves down the path to
superpower status, the head of the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA)
believes.


China is driving the rapid improvements in Asia's sporting
prowess and hauling the rest of the region up with it, he says.


"From the Barcelona Olympics in 1992 to Athens in 2004 we have
found there are a lot more champions from Asia," Sheikh Ahmad Al-
Fahad Al-Sabah, who has been president of the OCA since 1991,
told AFP in an interview.


"China are now second behind the United States in the medal
stakes and Japan and Korea are up there.


"In 2004 there were almost 30 National Olympic Councils from Asia
that won medals. This is a very encouraging development.


"I think in Beijing in 2008 Asia will jump from its current
situation to an advanced stage where an Asian nation may well top
the medal table."


That nation will be China, which is pulling out all the stops to
excel on home territory next year, with the ultimate goal being
to topple the United States.


The fact that China is so dominant in Asia is not a hindrance to
other regional countries. Rather, it motivates them, said Sheikh
Ahmad.


"Everyone knows that China is a sporting superpower. Always they
have around 30 percent of the Asian Games gold medals but I think
this is good because it encourages all the other nations and
athletes to develop to this level," he said.


"When they do this, we will find many more Asian countries at the
top. We have many, many prospects.


"Sometimes, psychologically, it is very difficult to beat the US
athletes but if Asian countries see China doing it, it will
encourage them. It can only help to upgrade our level."


When Sheikh Ahmad, a former army officer and Kuwaiti energy
minister, took over at the OCA, it was a shadow of what it is
today but he learnt lessons from former International Olympic
Committee president Juan Antonio Samaranch.


The 44-year-old, born in Beirut, attributes the professionalism
of the Olympic movement to the aging Spaniard.


"Since 1991 when I first took over, the nature of sports has
changed, mostly through the work of former IOC president Juan
Antonio Samaranch who helped change the nature of the Games to be
more professional," he said.


"We at the OCA started to develop in a professional way too and
with the help of the national sporting bodies we had the
successful Hiroshima Asian Games in 1994, Bangkok in 1998 and
Busan in 2002.


"Throughout these Games we succeeded in bringing the OCA and
sport to a higher standard.


"Doha (in 2006) put us on a new stage of professionalism."


In a bid to broaden the reach of sport in Asia and take some of
the strain off the Asian Games, which now has 39 sports to the 28
contested at the Olympics, the OCA will stage its first Beach
Games in Bali next year.


It has also established an Asian Indoor Games, with the first
event in Bangkok in 2005 and the next in Macau this year. The
plan is to eventually shift some of the Asiad sports to these
events.


"We have a lot of bidding cities for these Games," he said.


"We plan to hold them every two years to make sure they grow.
What we want to have is a major Games every year -- the Asian
Games followed by the Asian Winter Games, then the Indoor Games
and the Beach Games.


"We hope it will help Asian sport to grow.


"For athletes, income, marketing, funding, Games organisation --
you have to have a goal and a strategy. This is our goal and our
strategy, to be the best."

