

Bollywood hottest stars Aishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan begin
their three- day wedding ceremony here Wednesday, with hundreds
of police on standby to keep media and fans away.


Two seaside residences in Mumbai's upscale northern suburbs have
been turned into fortresses for the marriage of the 33-year-old
Rai, a former Miss World, and Bachchan, the 32-year-old son of
screen legend Amitabh Bachchan.


A legion of private security guards have been manning the gates
of both homes, with entry allowed only to workers and personnel
who have been given bar-coded passes and must go through metal
detectors.


Only 100 guests have been invited to the wedding, and more than
500 police are expected to be on hand to keep out gatecrashers.


Huge efforts have been made to shut out the media, with the
Bachchans requesting owners of neighbouring buildings not to
allow photographers and television crews to shoot from roofs and
balconies, reports said.


The festivities were to begin Wednesday with the traditional
sangeet, or music ceremony, during which relatives of the couple
sing and dance.


The henna ceremony -- during which the bride's hands are painted
-- will be held at Rai's house on Thursday.


The wedding ends Friday with a Hindu ceremony and a traditional
parting of the bride from her parents.


Bollywood movies have a huge following around the world,
especially in countries with a large Indian diaspora such as
Britain, Malaysia, Singapore and South Africa.


The pair known here as "Abhiash" -- India's answer to Brad Pitt
and Angelina Jolie's "Brangelina" -- were engaged in January.


Media reports said that jewellery for Rai had been specially
brought from the eastern city of Kolkata, while the henna came
from the western desert state of Rajasthan.


The bride will wear silk saris from the city of Varanasi, in
northern Uttar Pradesh state.


Rai has starred in films such as "Devdas", the story of a
hopeless alcoholic and his love for two women, while Bachchan has
played roles such as a young criminal on the run with a
girlfriend in "Bunty aur Bubbly" (Bunty and Bubbly).


The guest list includes major Bollywood players including
director Yash Chopra and filmmaker Karan Johar, as well as
industrialist Anil Ambani -- whose father built the country's
biggest listed firm, Reliance Industries.


But Bollywood heartthrob Shah Rukh Khan and Rai's ex-boyfriend,
actor Salman Khan, have not been invited.


The country's powerful Gandhi family, led by ruling Congress
party chief Sonia Gandhi, had been invited but is unlikely to
attend, having reportedly fallen out with the Bachchans over
politics, reports said.

