

Golden State and the Los Angeles Clippers took their fight for
the final vacant National Basketball Association playoff berth
into the final night of the season after each won Tuesday.


Golden State, 41-40, completed a season sweep of NBA win leader
Dallas with a 111-82 victory that was aided by the Mavericks
sitting out German star Dirk Nowitzki to rest him for this
weekend's start of the playoffs.


The Warriors, trying to end the longest active NBA playoff
absence after 12 seasons, might play Dallas in the first round
after being the first Western Conference team since 2001 to sweep
the Mavericks in a season series.


The Clippers, 40-41, won 103-99 at Phoenix to sustain their hopes
of overtaking the Warriors and reaching the playoffs.


After nearly six months, their seasons will come down to
Wednesday's final tip- offs of the regular season when the New
Orleans Hornets, 38-43, visit the Clippers in a game starting 30
minutes after Golden State opens at Portland.


The Warriors need a victory or a Clippers loss to capture a
playoff spot while the Clippers must defeat New Orleans and have
the Warriors lose to Portland.


That would leave the clubs level for the season and equal in the
standings and the Clippers would advance because they own the
tie-breaker edge on the Warriors based upon a better record in
games within the Pacific Division.


The Los Angeles Lakers, also 41-40, have already clinched a
playoff berth but could tumble into the eighth seed, and a first-
round date with NBA regular season champion Dallas, with a loss
at Sacramento and a Golden State triumph.


The Mavericks have a home-court edge throughout the NBA playoffs
thanks to their 66-15 victory but have been unable to solve the
Warriors, who are the only NBA team this season to sweep every
meeting this season from Dallas.


Golden State's fourth victory in a row was never in doubt after
the Warriors seized a 30-15 first-quarter lead and 55-31 half-
time edge. Mickael Pietrus led Golden State with 22 points while
Matt Barnes added 19 points.


The Clippers had lost four of their prior five games but held off
the Suns, the second-winningest team in the NBA at 61-21, in the
final seconds to stay on the heels of Golden State and deny the
Suns' bid to equal a club win record.


Elton Brand scored 21 points and grabbed nine rebounds while Tim
Thomas added 18 points and eight rebounds to lead six double-
figure scorers for the Clippers. Leandro Barbosa scored 22 points
to lead Phoenix.


While the Eastern Conference's bottom playoff berths are set, the
seeding spots are not and they could change greatly before the
finish after Orlando defeated Washington 95-89.


The slumping Wizards lost for the eighth time in 11 games and
fell to 40-41 and into the seventh seed in the East behind New
Jersey, which has the same record.


Orlando, 39-42, won for the fifth time in the past six games and
could move past the Wizards out of the lowest seed spot as well
with a Wednesday victory and Washington loss.


The East mess will be sorted out on the final night of the
regular season when the New Jersey Nets entertain Chicago, the
Wizards visit Indiana and the Orlando Magic play host to
defending NBA champion Miami.

