

India's sports minister defended himself on Wednesday after the
country's surprise failure to secure hosting rights for the 2014
Asian Games.


Angry officials lashed out at Mani Shankar Aiyer, who earlier
voiced opposition to the bid, after New Delhi lost out to South
Korea's Incheon in the race for the lucrative event.


It is the third time South Korea has been picked following Seoul
in 1986 and Busan in 2002.


But Aiyer said the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) should not
"cry over spilt milk" and should concentrate on the Commonwealth
Games, which Delhi will host in 2010.


"It's an opportunity to re-deploy the huge amount of money that
will now be saved to organise sports facilities and events for
millions of deprived children, adoloscents and youth across the
country," he told the Hindustan Times.


The New Delhi delegation gathered for Tuesday's announcement in
Kuwait had insisted India was the frontrunner and had a right to
win, having been overlooked since 1982.


Indian Olympic Association (IOA) chief Suresh Kalmadi blamed the
failure on Aiyer, who said last week that hosting major sports
events did not benefit ordinary people.


"We looked a divided lot because of the sports minister's
comments which appeared everywhere in the media," said Kalmadi.


However the minister's opposition to organising expensive
sporting events -- the Commonwealth Games has been budgeted at
about one billion US dollars -- has drawn support from many in
the Indian media.


"Having elephants, camels and Bollywood stars on the opening
ceremony stage will not make us a great sporting nation," said
Sharda Ugra, sports editor of the respected India Today weekly.


"India first needs to have a sporting presence before it hosts
events. By that I mean we should win a lot more than just one
Olympic medal every four years.


"Even an event-management company can organise a great show. You
don't need the taxpayer's money to do it."


Business executive Anil Mehra said the failure to secure the 2014
Games was not a national shame.


"It's no big deal," he said. "Probably the only ones affected are
sports officials. I hope they now spend the money on giving our
athletes better facilities."


It is unclear if New Delhi, which hosted the Asian Games twice in
1951 and 1982, will continue its bid for the 2016 Olympics after
the fiasco in Kuwait.

