

The psychological wounds from the deadliest school shooting in US
history will take a long time to heal and will spread far beyond
the campus of Virginia Tech University, experts said.


People caught in the crossfire as South Korean student Cho Seung-
Hui, 23, turned his campus into a killing field are most at risk
of suffering from post- traumatic stress disorder and the friends
and families of the many victims will probably need help dealing
with their grief, experts said.


But students who were out of range of his guns could also be
deeply affected as their sense of security is erased and they
find themselves wondering why it was they managed to escape harm.


And even those watching the events unfold on television could
begin to feel that no place is safe as this latest incident adds
to the sense that the world is unstable and that the threat of
terrorism or random violence is constant.


"We focus on those who have been killed or injured but there is a
large group of students and school personnel who have been
impacted," said Melissa Brymer, director of terrorism disaster
programs at the UCLA-Duke National Center for Child Traumatic
Stress.


"Part of the recovery is to help students look after each other.
We don't want there to be another death because of this event
whether it's at-risk behavior or substance abuse."


Surviving this type of an incident can affect someone for the
rest of their lives, Brymer said, noting that she got calls
Monday from students she had counseled after being injured in a
California school shooting more than six years ago.


"Kids will have triggers or reminders later. If a potato chip bag
pops, that may be a sound similar to the bullets."


One of the reason these incidents have such a wide impact is
because they violate our sense of security, Brymer said in a
telephone interview.


"Parents allow kids to go to school because it's a safe place.
When these incidents happen it shakes us."


About 70 to 80 percent of people affected by the shooting ought
to be able to "gradually work this into the story of their lives
and be okay," said Doug Zatzick, a psychiatry professor at the
University of Washington.


But there will be a smaller group of people who may not be able
to be helped by traditional post-traumatic stress counseling
which tries to help people understand that they live in a safe
country and that this type of event will not happen again, he
said.


"It seems that since 9/11 that model for Americans that we're
somewhat invulnerable to stuff like that has been decaying," he
said.


Zatzick, who counsels people in Seattle, Washington state, who
have been the victim of multiple violent crimes, is among a
growing group of therapists who are developing new models to deal
with recurrent trauma.


One such technique is mindfulness, a cognitive behavior technique
that uses traditional meditation techniques like breathing and
single-pointed concentration to refocus the individual to the
current moment while acknowledging that existential threats
exist.


A similar technique is being studied by the defense department to
help troops in Iraq, he said.


Incidents like this mass murder can be used to promote positive
ends, said Robin Gurwitch, a psychologist with the National
Center for School Crisis and Bereavement.


"It's a nice time for families to step back, talk to their
children about what they've heard and what they think," she said.
"It's important to make sure kids feel they can talk to their
parents about safety."


Schools can also use this as an opportunity to review their
safety plans and "promote resilience" by talking to students
about what happened, she said.


"We can't undo it, but the question is where do we go from here,"
she told AFP. "It is incredibly important to move forward."

