

A day after the deadliest school shooting in US history, a
portrait emerged of the 23-year-old South Korean gunman as a
disturbed, isolated man whose gory writings troubled his
classmates and teachers.


Cho Seung-Hui moved to the United States when he was just eight,
and was in his final year of studying English at Virginia Tech
where in a fit of rage Monday he gunned down at least 30 students
before fatally shooting himself.


Authorities found few people on campus who knew Cho well, since
he was a loner who rarely spoke in class and whose writings
opened a window onto an unstable and violent mind.


"When I first heard about the multiple shootings ... my first
thought was about my friends, and my second thought was 'I bet it
was Seung Cho,'" said Ian McFarland, a former classmate of Cho's
who posted two of his plays online.


"He would sit by himself whenever possible, and didn't like
talking to anyone. I don't think I've ever actually heard his
voice before," wrote McFarland on aol.com.


He was "what one would typically think of as a 'school shooter'
-- a loner, obsessed with violence, and serious personal
problems," he said in an article next to links to two plays,
"Richard McBeef" and "Mr. Brownstone."


In the end, his writings may serve as his last testament and
offer the only clues to his motive.


One of his plays describes a 13-year-old boy's escalating fight
with his stepfather. The boy stuffs a cereal bar down the
stepfather's throat, then, the elder man "lifts his large arms
and swings a deadly blow."


The other play takes its name from the Guns 'N' Roses song "Mr.
Brownstone," and tells of a crew of 17-year-olds who skip school
to gamble at a casino and fantasize about killing their
professor.


"Such an old constipated wicked man," says Joe.


"I wanna kill him," says John.


"I wanna watch him bleed like the way he made us kids bleed,"
says Jane.


The writings were shocking enough that a professor had pulled him
from class, CNN reported.


"There were several of us in English who became concerned when we
had him in class, for various reasons. And so I contacted some
people to try to get some help for him because I was deeply
concerned," Lucinda Roy, one of Cho's professors said.


Roy said she privately tutored him for a time, and added that
throughout her teaching career she had never seen a student as
troubled as Cho.


Stephanie Derry, who studied playwriting with Cho, told the
school newspaper, Collegiate Times, that the gunman's dramas were
"really morbid and grotesque" and that other students used to
joke about Cho's creepy work.


ABC news and the Chicago Tribune reported Tuesday that Cho left a
long, rambling note in his dormitory room, railing against "rich
kids," "debauchery" and "deceitful charlatans" on campus, the
Chicago Tribune reported.


"You caused me to do this," he wrote.


Cho also died with the words "Ismail Ax" in red ink on the inside
of one of his arms, the Tribune reported, citing unidentified
sources.


Police suspect Cho first killed two people at a campus dormitory,
then returned to his own dorm to write the rambling invective,
re-arm and then storm the classroom building where he chained
shut the doors and stalked from room to room killing 30 people
and himself.


Cho was among the 2,000 foreigners from more than 110 countries
attending the 26,000-student university in Blacksburg, Virginia.
Cho's family lived in Centreville, Virginia, a suburb of
Washington.


The Tribune said his family runs a dry cleaning business while
his sister graduated from the elite Princeton University.


South Korea's government expressed "indescribable surprise and
shock" after Cho was identified.


Cho had shown recent signs of violent, aberrant behavior,
including setting a fire in a dorm room and allegedly stalking
some women, the Tribune said, citing an unnamed investigative
source.


Investigators believe Cho at some point had been taking
medication for depression, the daily said.


The lone gunman is the most common profile for a mass murderer,
someone who is "isolated, reclusive and antisocial" said Alan
Langlieb, director of workplace psychiatry at Johns Hopkins
University.


"It's not exactly clear what snaps," he said. "Some of it is
premeditated, but a person could wake up that day and decide,
'I'm going to create social havoc.'"

