

Thousands of workers from a giant US-run gold and copper mine in
Indonesia's remote Papua province staged a noisy but peaceful
protest Wednesday amid tight security to demand better wages and
welfare.


Police, including from the paramilitary Brimob unit, stood guard
as thousands of workers demonstrated outside the Indonesian
headquarters of Freeport-McMoRan in the town of Timika.


"They number in the thousands but so far the protest has been
peaceful," said Adi, a police officer on duty in the town.


"They are conducting their action peacefully and we only have our
regular district police dealing with it," said police spokesman
Kartono Wangsadisastra from the provincial capital Jayapura.


The workers from the Grasberg mine have been gathering from
surrounding villages and towns since Tuesday for the rally after
talks with company representatives were called off.


The workers had demanded they speak with Freeport executives in
the United States via a teleconference.


The protracted dispute, which centres on demands for higher wages
and increased recruitment of Papuan workers as permanent
employees, has helped push world copper prices to seven-month
highs.


Freeport operates concessions totalling 3.6 million hectares (8.9
million acres) stretching from the coast to the central mountain
range at Timika, with its copper reserves estimated at 2.6
billion tonnes.


Critics accuse Freeport of not giving enough to the people of
Papua in return for the mine. The allege the mine causes
pollution and that the military's protection of the site leads to
human rights abuses.


The firm has disputed the claims.


A company spokesman said Wednesday production remained at full
capacity despite the protest, and the company remained open to
talks.


"Our operations are continuing. We remain at full production of
concentrate metal and shipping of concentrate has not been
affected," spokesman Mindo Pangaribuan said in an e-mail.


Pangaribuan said that in the past decade the company had almost
quadrupled its Papuan employment from some 800 in 1996 to the
current 3,000 workers.


Freeport operates its Grasberg mine in southwest Papua under a
30-year contract with the Indonesian government that began in
1992. The company owns 91 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia with
the rest in government hands.

