

Isolation from his peers, easy access to guns, and Hollywood
images of gun- toting machismo were all key factors in Cho Seung-
Hui's transformation into a gruesome killer, sociologists say.


US media has been quick to frame the 23-year-old South Korean
man, whose rampage killed at least 30 in the worst school
shooting in US history on Monday, as a mentally disturbed "loner"
whose erratic shooting spree ended in suicide.


He wrote twisted, morbid plays in English class, set fire to a
dormitory room and stalked college women, according to cobbled
together accounts of his life from the few people who interacted
with him at Virginia Tech University.


But the real shaping factors in the crime require a broader
perspective on US culture, according to Joseph Gasper, a
professor of sociology at Johns Hopkins University.


"I would urge people to avoid attributing the crime in Virginia
to the mental illness of an individual and focus on the myriad of
social factors that would play a role in this sort of violent
crime," Gasper said.


He pointed to "factors like social marginalization... violence in
the media, masculinity issues, easy access to guns," as among the
key factors that need to be examined.


"Individual explanation based on mental illness doesn't really
help us ... it doesn't help prevent future shootings."


Gasper agreed with the portrayal of Cho as a loner, but counseled
against viewing his actions as isolated.


"It's very clear that in a lot of American movies and TV there is
a link between manhood and violence ... telling young men who are
having social problems that, 'Hey, take a gun and kill people,'
(and they) can be very empowered."


Those messages take root in fragile minds but also find their way
into culture and society, Gasper said.


"In the US there has always been this culture of violence mainly
associated with the south. If someone hurts you it's okay, or
it's legitimate to retaliate," he said, noting "violence and
intimidation were used to control slaves."


School shootings do not happen only in the United States -- for
instance a German gunman killed 15 people at a school in Erfurt
in 2002 -- but they have happened in the United States more often
than in Europe or elsewhere.


"I think it is clear the ready availability of guns in the US
makes it easier for someone to commit one of these crimes,"
Gasper said.


The two teenage gunmen in the school shooting at Columbine High
School in 1999 in the western state of Colorado got their guns
from their parents' homes, he said.


And Cho purchased his two guns and ammunition himself,
authorities said. The legal age for buying a gun in the state of
Virginia is 12, though that requires parental supervision.


"Of course it is more likely that there is going to be gun
violence in general in the US than in Britain or France... the
actual murder rate is higher in the US," said sociologist Peggy
Giordano.


However, she admitted that "probably there are some social risk
factors that are involved that are greater in the US."


"We do have historically a more independent approach, more
individualistic,  the frontier mentality ... I think it might be
an image of a male more in charge ... probably a different way
the French men understand being a man."


Those tendencies can combine with a high level of emotional
turmoil experienced by college-age men, Giordano found in a study
of 1,300 teenagers and young adults as they were moving to
colleges.


The study found that relationships with women were "a source of
extreme high emotionality in males in particular," said Giordano,
who specializes in delinquency and violence at Ohio's Bowling
Green State University.


"Many acts of violence in this country do stem from these
emotional upsets," she said. When men "feel humiliated ... the
emotions are definitely key to understanding those acts of
violence."


Jack Levin, director of the Brudnick Center for Violence and
Conflict at Northeastern University, warned of a coming violent
epidemic in his 1985 book "Mass Murder: America's Growing
Menace."


But even he admitted being unclear about the root causes.


"We're still in the dark about where this thing comes from," he
said.

