

Australia on Wednesday announced plans to swap its detained
boatpeople with those held by the United States, a move
immediately denounced as "bizarre" by rights groups and
opposition politicians.


The deal would see mainly Asian boatpeople intercepted on their
way to Australia considered for resettlement in the US, while
Cuban and Haitian asylum-seekers hoping to live in the US could
be despatched to Australia.


The exchange would involve boatpeople held by Australia on the
remote Pacific island of Nauru and refugees held by the US at its
naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, said Immigration Minister
Kevin Andrews.


Australia and the US shared a similar problem with boatpeople
breaching their international borders, said Andrews, who signed a
memorandum of agreement on the deal with the US on Tuesday.


"Some, for example, are held at the Guantanamo Bay naval base --
not the prison -- and those cases, the Cubans and Haitians, if
they've got genuine refugee claims, the United States might say
to us, 'Would you consider settling some of these people?' and we
would give consideration to it," he said.


"Equally, we might say we have people that have sought to
illegally enter Australia who have a refugee claim and we could
say to the United States, 'Would you consider settling them?'."


Prime Minister John Howard said the scheme would deter boatpeople
seeking asylum from attempting to come to Australia.


"It will drive home the point that this country will not
compromise in relation to illegal immigration," he told ABC
radio.


But opposition politicians and refugee rights groups slammed the
scheme.


"If you are in one of the refugee camps around the world, there
is no more attractive destination than to think you can get a
ticket to the USA," Labor Party spokesman Tony Burke said.


"What John Howard is doing is saying to the people around the
world: if you want to get to the US, the way to it is to hop on a
boat and go to (Australia's) Christmas Island."


Greens Senator Kerry Nettle said the plan could encourage more
boatpeople to make the treacherous crossing to Australia.


"It's a very bizarre suggestion being put forward by the Howard
government," she said. "I think that a shortcut for a Green Card
into the United States is actually going to encourage asylum-
seekers."

