

Asia's star is shining brightly once again at this year's
MIPTV/MILIA international TV and digital content trade show as
the digital revolution sweeping the audiovisual, Internet and
cellphone worlds pushes the region's hi- tech strengths to the
fore.


Business for the hundreds of Asia-Pacific companies who have
jetted in to this small, chic Riviera seaside resort for the
influential five-day market that opened its doors Monday also
looks set to be brisk.


"Competition is high and audiences are very picky but demand is
growing for content for new technologies," Jack Lim of South
Korea's leading broadcaster, Korean Broadcasting System, told
AFP.


"This is the biggest marketplace for us and we're optimistic that
it will be a very busy week," Lim emphasised.


The two enormous advertising banners adorning the front of the
town's fabled Palais des Festivals that houses the show also
extol the region's hi-tech and story-telling skills.


One banner reads: "I made it in Singapore", whilst the other
"Window of Korean Wave" is promoting South Korea's latest hugely
popular romantic drama that continues to entrance audiences
around Asia.


The Asian countries are here in force, led by Japan and South
Korea, with 237 and 228 exhibitors, respectively.


In the build-up to the Beijing Olympics, China has more than
doubled its presence this year with 124 exhibitors, whilst
Australia and South Korea are both among the top 10 exhibiting
countries.


In all there are a whopping 856 exhibitors from across the Asia-
Pacific region. That accounts for just over 20 percent of the
total 4,234 companies from 59 countries signed up.


But the particularly large number of Chinese exhibitors is not
all due to the impending summer Olympics, Paul Johnson,
television director for the show's organisers Reed MIDEM, pointed
out.


"Chinese participants are taking a more active role in the
world's largest audiovisual market because they are becoming more
savvy at selling their original content rather than as a net
buyer, which was their main activity over the past few years,"
Johnson told AFP.


The country's emerging co-production sector is also boosting
growth in the TV sector, Johnson noted.


Senior Chinese TV execs attending last weekend's MIPDOC
documentary show that precedes the main market, said they were
looking for international co-production partners to help them
package and sell their stories better to audiences outside.


Growing demand for the fabulous quality high definition (HD)
programmes that work fantastically on the raft of new
entertainment channels, from IPTV to video-on-demand as well as
TV, is also helping fill up the Asian entertainment execs'
diaries this week.


Singapore has brought over a record showcase of over 50 HDTV and
animation programmes, Christopher Chia, CEO of Singapore's Media
Development Authority (MDA), told AFP in an interview.


"From documentaries to drama and even animation, Singapore
companies are proving they have what it takes to become a key
contributor to digital television content and animation
industry," Chia emphasised.


Co-productions are a key strategy for Singapore and MDA said it
expected to make a number of announcements about this during the
show.


The first of these was made Tuesday when MDA revealed it had
teamed up with Singapore's Mega Media and Voom HD Networks (a
leading HD channel and programme provider) to co-produce a raft
of new HD action-sports and documentary programmes.


Japan is also making waves here.


"There is interest from all over in Japanese programming as they
always have something new and creative," Dorothy Gamber of Bellon
Entertainment Inc., which handles international distribution for
Tokyo Broadcasting System (TBS), emphasised.


Two of the most popular TBS programmes with foreign buyers here
are "Ninja Warrier" and "Comedy Colosseum", Gamber said.


Japan's Fuji Television also reported strong overseas interest in
many of its big slate of gameshow formats.


But the popularity of Asian animae is as strong as ever,
particularly for the top quality 3D shows coming out of China.


Europe and the USA are both big buyers, Yuanchao Wang, who heads
China's Zhejiang Zhongnan Group Animation Video Co., told AFP.


His newest programmes, "Monkey King" and "Magic Wonderland",
could prove popular this week.


"I've got a very busy schedule with over 100 meetings set up
already," he said on the opening day of the show.

