

Adam Gilchrist believes there is no danger of New Zealand easing
up against Australia in their World Cup Super Eights match at the
Grenada National Stadium on Friday.


Both sides have already qualified for the semi-finals and, with
New Zealand currently second to reigning champions and table-
toppers Australia, the teams are on course to avoid each other in
the last four.


Sri Lanka, also through to the semis, controversially rested star
bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan from Monday's
seven-wicket defeat by Australia in Grenada.


But with New Zealand having beaten Australia 3-0 on home soil in
the Chappell- Hadlee Trophy in February, Gilchrist - who missed
the series after being given a break by the selectors - said the
Black Caps wouldn't reduce their chances of another win by
resting the likes of fast bowler Shane Bond.


"I wouldn't suspect so. I'm sure all their players will be keen
to play. We go out to win every game we play and I think New
Zealand are of the same mindset," said Gilchrist.


"They'll acknowledge the Chappell-Hadlee games were played in
different circumstances, different conditions.


"But they'll take great confidence from beating us and they
played some really impressive cricket in that series. It's a good
chance for us to shape up again as we may meet each other again
in this competition down the track."


Left-handed opening batsman Gilchrist, a World Cup-winner in 1999
and 2003, said he'd been impressed by New Zealand's improvement
since they finished third in the triangular one-day series won by
England in Australia in February, before the Chappell-Hadlee
campaign started.


And he was particularly taken with the batting form of New
Zealand all-rounder Scott Styris, fit again after a back problem,
who has scored 435 runs at an average of 108.75 at this World Cup
to lie fourth in the list of the tournament's leading run-
scorers.


"They've got their game well and truly down pat," said Gilchrist.
"They continue to be well led, they've got a fully fit Scott
Styris and his results are showing what an integral part of their
success he is.


"They've got that winning mentality," said the Western Australia
gloveman said of a New Zealand side whose only defeat during this
tournament to date has been against Sri Lanka.


"They've got a stranglehold on that at the moment so they don't
want to let that go."


Australia, who've gone 26 games unbeaten at the World Cup - a run
stretching back to 1999 - have looked a cut above their opponents
in the Caribbean.


But Gilchrist said there was still room for improvement, citing
Sri Lanka's recovery from 27 for three to 167 for three as an
example.


"We had Sri Lanka on the backfoot at three for 27 and then we
allowed them almost back in the driving seat.


"I'm not for a moment saying our bowling is a worry because we've
bowled out every opposition bar Bangladesh in what was pretty
much a Twenty20 game.


"We're thrilled with our bowlers but that's an example of the
type of thing we can keep improving on."

