

Some fought back tears, others hugged and offered soothing words,
but the day after the deadliest school shooting in US history,
thousands of students and teachers gathered to vow: "We will
prevail."


Mourners, many dressed in the university's colors of maroon and
burnt orange, gathered Tuesday to remember those slain and honor
their memories.


"No one deserves a tragedy. We are Virginia Tech. The hokie
nation embraces with open heart and hand. We are strong and brave
and innocent and unafraid," said English professor Nikki
Giovanni.


"We are the hokies! We will prevail. We will prevail. We will
prevail," she said, referring to the university's nickname for
its students.


Just moments before the poignant strains of "Amazing Grace" had
echoed around the Cassell Coliseum, but in the most rousing
moment of the ceremony the audience took up Giovanni's call and
gave her a rousing round of applause.


US President George W. Bush told those gathered that the whole
country stood with them in mourning for the 32 victims killed on
Monday, when South Korean loner Cho Seung-Hui went on a rampage
on the campus.


"This is a day ... of sadness for our entire nation," the
president told the crowd of some 10,000.


Many in the coliseum voiced sadness that a venue usually reserved
to cheer on the university's basketball team had become, instead,
a place of mourning.


As the crowd stood in a moment of silence, tears streamed down
faces and many hung their heads in sadness. One older man sobbed
uncontrollably and some people overcome with emotion had to be
escorted out.


"It was very emotional," said Michele Rippey, 22, a graduate
student. "I thought about a friend of mine I lost in the shooting
and who is not here any more.


"It's hard to swallow, it's hard to believe but we're resilient
as a hokie nation and we'll move on but we won't forget," she
added, referring to the school's nickname.


The campus, where the day before the pop of gunfire had shaken
students in a dormitory and an engineering building, was eerily
quiet on Tuesday, with classes canceled.


Small groups of students huddled under sunny skies in various
parts of the sprawling campus, exchanging the latest news,
sending phone messages and expressing their horror at the
tragedy.


Asian students were conspicuously absent and there were reports
that many had left the campus, which is located in rural Virginia
and which has 26,000 students, about 2,000 of them from overseas.


Officials said the university would remain shut until Monday and
Norris Hall, where 30 students were mowed down while attending
German, French, engineering and computer science classes, would
be closed to the public for the rest of the school year. The
other two victims were killed in a dormitory.


Family members and students meanwhile could be seen streaming
into the university's conference building where a crisis center
was set up to provide information and counseling.


One student was seen walking out of the building sobbing upon
learning that two of her classmates were among the dead.


"They're gone, I'm sorry I can't talk," she said as she wept.


Other distraught family members and friends were meanwhile
maintaining an anxious vigil either at hospital bedsides, or
searching for news of loved ones still missing.


"They first told us that my daughter was in the hospital but when
I went there last night it wasn't her and since then, nothing,"
said Grafton Peterson, of Centreville, Virginia.


He had had no news from his daughter, 18-year-old Erin, his only
child. "I've been here since 4:00 am and no one has been able to
tell me where she is," he added, choking back his emotion.


Several foreign students also sought information about fellow
nationals.


"This is probably one of the safest campuses in the country and
you can't imagine in your wildest dreams something like this
happening here," said Mrunal Patel, 22, a student of Indian
origin."

