

Films from Indonesia, the Philippines and Singapore will make
their international premieres at the 20th Singapore International
Film Festival which opens on Wednesday.


Nine films will be shown internationally for the first time while
17 others will get their Asian premiere at the 13-day showcase of
Asian and world cinema, organisers said.


Among the Indonesian productions screening for the first time
outside their home country are independent filmmaker Lola
Amaria's "Betina", about a village girl's longing to reunite with
her estranged father.


In another Indonesian premiere, Richard Oh's "The Lost Suitcase
(Koper)", tells the story of a lowly clerk who finds his life
transformed by the discovery of a suitcase.


Twenty independent Filipino filmmakers have contributed to "Image
Nation (Imahe Nasyon)", which will also make its international
debut. The film looks at the Philippines 20 years after the 1986
"People Power" revolution that brought down dictator Ferdinand
Marcos.


A Singapore production, "The Changi Murals" directed by Boo
Junfeng, will make its world premiere with a story about five
Biblical murals that changed the lives of prisoners of war during
the Japanese occupation of Singapore.


More than 300 productions from 40 countries will be screened at
the festival, which has propelled Asia's filmmakers to greater
prominence over the years, said festival programmer Philip Cheah.


Garin Nugroho, one of Indonesia's leading directors, is an
example of an Asian talent the festival has supported since his
early days, Cheah said.


Nugroho's "Opera Jawa" will close this year's festival. Inspired
by the Hindu epic "Ramayana", it tells the story of two former
dancers while addressing the subjects of political oppression and
religious extremism. The story is told against a backdrop of
traditional Javanese music and dance.


The Singapore festival "followed his career since his debut,"
Cheah said of Nugroho. "We played close attention to how
Indonesian cinema grew."


Nugroho went on to showcase his documentary "Serambi", about
survivors of the 2004 tsunami disaster in Indonesia's Aceh, at
the Cannes Film Festival.


In 1991 the Singapore festival introduced its Silver Screen
Awards to honour the region's filmmakers.


Cheah said Arabic cinema has also remained a mainstay of the
festival since Middle Eastern films were first introduced in
2003.


"There's a lot of closeness we share and the best place to find
it is through cinema," he said.


Among the Middle Eastern films screening this time out is "Beirut
Diaries -- Truth, Lies and Videos". The production by Palestinian
documentary maker Mai Masri will receive its Asian premiere.


The festival also pays tribute to Egyptian author Naguib Mahfouz
and his impact on realist cinema in his country. The Nobel
laureate for literature died last year.

