

Communist North Korea has demanded pay rises for workers in South
Korean factories at a joint industrial zone in the North,
officials said Wednesday.


Pyongyang proposed a 30 percent rise for university graduates
working at the Kaesong estate and 10 percent for those with
lesser college qualifications, the officials at Seoul's
Unification Ministry said.


"However, South Korean firms have rejected the demand as workers
are doing the same work on assembly lines regardless of their
educational background," an official told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


"Since then, the North has made no further demand for wage
hikes," he said.


Currently, some 13,000 workers are employed by 22 South Korean
firms which produce labour-intensive products such as garments
and kitchenware.


About 11 percent graduated from universities and a similar
percentage from colleges, the Korea Times said.


"Given the number of highly educated North Korean workers,
approximately a four percent wage hike is expected this year," an
executive of an unidentified South Korean company at Kaesong was
quoted as telling the newspaper.


But the executive said companies face difficulty exporting
products, especially to the United States, since they are deemed
to originate in North Korea.


Seoul and Washington shelved the issue of recognizing Kaesong
products as South Korean goods when they struck a free trade deal
early this month.


Under a 2005 agreement the minimum wage is set at 57.5 dollars a
month for the North Korean workers, with possible rises of up to
five percent every year.


But there have been no wage hikes since then as most of the
companies have not yet broken even.


In any case, workers do not get to see their pay packets,
according to Unification Minister Lee Jae-Joung in January. The
North's government gives them daily necessities equivalent to the
value of their wages, he said.


Some critics say Kaesong is providing hard currency which the
North can use for its missile and nuclear programmes.


The unification ministry, in charge of relations with the North,
denies this and says Kaesong is teaching the communist state the
workings of a free-market economy.

