

Japanese campaigners against nuclear weapons on Wednesday
expressed outrage at the assassination of Nagasaki's mayor, who
was an outspoken proponent of abolishing atomic bombs.


Mayor Iccho Ito, who was born one month after the US atomic bomb
obliterated his hometown, was shot Tuesday by a gangster.


Tadatoshi Akiba, the mayor of Hiroshima, the only other city to
suffer nuclear attack, said he felt "deep sorrow and strong
anger" over the death.


"I can never forgive an attempt to stop political activities
through violence, which is a blatant challenge to democracy,"
Akiba said in a statement.


"I deeply regret that his strong wish for the abolition of
nuclear weapons was stalled by the violence of the bullet," he
said.


Ito was an outspoken pacifist and frequently attended events
overseas to demand the abolition of nuclear weapons.


Nihon Hidankyo, a group of nuclear bomb survivors that has been
nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, said that Japan had lost a
powerful voice.


"Looking at news reports so far, the gang attack had nothing to
do with his political creed, which makes me feel all the more
sorrowful," said Terumi Tanaka, 74, the group's secretary
general.


"His existence was special in our campaign, as Japan's central
government has not been as active in denuclearisation campaigns,"
he told AFP.


In May 2005, Ito gave a speech in the name of "Mayors for Peace"
at unsuccessful negotiations in New York on the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty.


"The world has lost a truly great leader and a champion of a
wonderful cause," UN disarmament official Randy Rydell told
Japan's public broadcaster NHK.


On August 9, 1945, a US nuclear bomb, codenamed "Fat Man" after
Winston Churchill, killed more than 70,000 people in Nagasaki, a
southern port city known for its early openness to foreign trade
and large Christian community.


The bomb was even larger than "Little Boy" which was dropped
three days earlier on Hiroshima, killing some 140,000 people.
Japan surrendered on August 15, ending World War II.

