

Thousands gathered Tuesday for a candlelight vigil to mourn the
victims of the deadliest school shooting in US history as a
portrait emerged of the killer as a troubled "loner" from South
Korea.


After Virginia Tech University was transformed into a killing
field where 33 died including the shooter on Monday, police
identified the gunman as Cho Seung- Hui, 23, an English major
whose morbid writings troubled his classmates.


Cho, who came to the United States from South Korea in 1992 when
he was eight years old, reportedly left behind a rambling note
venting his rage.


Victims of his rampage included a Holocaust survivor who
barricaded the classroom door to allow his students to escape
before finally being gunned down, as well as a pair of Lebanese
students, an Indian engineering expert and a Canadian French
teacher.


Just across from the building where the massacre took place,
thousands of students, faculty and community residents lifted
candles in unison in an hour- long ceremony after night fell to
honor those killed.


The field at the center of campus was awash in flickering
candlelight as a bugle played "Taps" and some wept for those lost
in the shootings.


Some students scrolled messages in memory of the victims on
several wooden boards. "You'll never be forgotten," read one
message.


Chief Virginia medical examiner Marcella Fierro said it would
take several days to identify all the victims.


Fellow students in a playwriting class remembered the killer as a
mostly silent classmate who wrote gory dramas in a juvenile tone.


"The plays had really twisted, macabre violence that used weapons
I wouldn't have even thought of," wrote former classmate Ian
McFarland who posted two of Cho's plays on aol.com.


The slayings sent shudders around the world, especially in Seoul
as shocked South Koreans came to terms with the news that the
gunman was a compatriot.


President Roh Moo-Hyun called an emergency meeting of his aides
for Wednesday.


Earlier, President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura, were among
the guests at a campus memorial service.


More than 10,000 people, mostly students dressed in the orange-
and-maroon school colors, hugged and sobbed as the Virginia Tech
corps of cadets marched into the coliseum solemnly to a muffled
funeral drum beat.


"In this time of anguish, I hope you know that people all over
this country are thinking about you," Bush said. "This is a day
of mourning for the Virginia Tech community, and it is a day of
sadness for our entire nation."


Two of the victims were shot dead in an initial attack in a
campus dormitory around 7:15 am on Monday. Another 30 were killed
two and a half hours later at Norris Hall, an engineering
building.


Up to 30 others were wounded, many after jumping from windows to
escape the carnage.


Steve Flaherty, superintendent of state police, told reporters
Cho had been living in a campus dormitory. He was a resident
alien in the United States.


Documents were seized from his dorm room and authorities were
reviewing them to gain some insight into Cho's motive.


Larry Hincker, associate vice president for university relations,
described Cho as a "loner."


The Chicago Tribune newspaper and ABC News reported that Cho had
left behind a note in his dormitory in which he complained about
"rich kids."


"You caused me to do this," he wrote in the several-page-long
note that also railed against "debauchery" and "deceitful
charlatans."


Cho had shown recent signs of "violent, aberrant behavior,"
including stalking women and setting a fire in a dorm room, the
Chicago Tribune said.


"His writing, the plays, were really morbid and grotesque,"
student Stephanie Derry told the college newspaper, the
Collegiate Times.


"He would just sit and watch us, but wouldn't say anything. It
was his lack of behavior that really set him apart. He basically
just kept to himself, very isolated," Derry said.


Cho shot himself in the head as police closed in on Norris Hall,
where he had methodically gunned down dozens of students and
faculty members after chaining the doors of the building from the
inside.


Flaherty said a 9mm handgun and a .22 caliber handgun had been
recovered.


Amid the shock and horror, some students and families accused
college officials of failing to lock down the campus or alert
students when gunfire first broke out.


But the head of public safety for Virginia, John Marshall,
defended university authorities saying they "made the right
decisions based on the best information that they had available
at the time."


The shooting immediately renewed concern over school security and
access to guns that was rekindled last year by a rash of
shootings. The state of Virginia has some of the weakest gun
licensing requirements in the country.

