

Iran proved to be the sole flashpoint in an otherwise muted
debate between US Democratic presidential hopefuls Thursday, as
contenders weighed what Washington's response should be to an
Iranian nuclear weapons program.


US Senator Barack Obama said that while it would be a "profound
mistake" to pick a fight with Tehran, Iran's possession of
nuclear weapons would be "a major threat to us and to the
region."


"If we have nuclear proliferators around the world that
potentially can place a nuclear weapon into the hands of
terrorists, that is a profound security threat for America and
one that we have to take seriously," said Obama in the televised
debate between eight Democratic contenders for the White House.


Obama also took a tough line on dealing with terrorism generally.


"We have genuine enemies out there that have to be hunted down,
networks have to be dismantled. There is no contradiction between
us intelligently using our military and, in some cases, lethal
force to take out terrorists," Obama said.


But House Representative Dennis Kucinich criticized what he
viewed as Obama's bellicose approach for dealing with Iran, with
the United States still smarting from military setbacks in Iraq.


"You previously said that all options are on the table with
respect to Iran. And I think that it's important for people to
reflect on the real meaning of that, that you're setting the
stage for another war," Kucinich said.


Mike Gravel, a former US senator from Alaska, said he was also
taken aback by his rival contenders' apparent unwillingness to
rule out attacking Iran.


"When you have mainline candidates that turn around and say that
there's nothing off the table with respect to Iran, that's code
for using nukes -- nuclear devices," he said.


"Some of these people frighten me," Gravel said of fellow
candidates.


Senator Hillary Clinton, the leading Democratic contender in
public opinion polls and Obama's main rival, remained silent
during the exchange on Iran.


It was the first televised debate of the 2008 campaign, more than
18 months before the November 4, 2008 election to pick a
successor to Republican President George W. Bush.

