

Canada unveiled plans Thursday to force big industry to help curb
the country's greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and
eventually meet its Kyoto Protocol commitment, albeit decades
late.


"Canada needs to do a U-turn," Environment Minister John Baird
said. "We are serving notice that beginning today industry will
need to make real reductions."


But he maintained that the Kyoto targets, agreed by a previous
Liberal government in 1998, are unattainable, while
environmentalists and opposition parties panned his new plan as
doing too little too late.


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990
levels by 2012, but emissions have instead increased by 35
percent.


The government's new plan aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions
linked to global warming by 150 megatonnes, or 20 percent based
on 2006 levels, by 2020. Growth in emissions would first be
halted by 2012 and eventually would be reduced by up to 70
percent by 2050.


"This is the toughest (environmental) plan ever proposed by a
Canadian government," Baird told reporters.


But Liberal environment critic David McGuinty countered in a
statement: "All we get is a pile of excuses about why they can't
do anything to reduce greenhouse gases for decades."


"The national target is wholly inadequate. It falls short of
Canada's legal commitment and falls short of what is needed for
the environment," activist Matthew Bramley of the Pembina
Institute told AFP.


Companies that produce electricity by combustion, Canada's
booming oil and gas sector, base metal smelters, iron and steel
companies, and mining firms, as well as cement, pulp and paper,
aluminum and chemicals producers face mandatory emissions cuts.


They currently account for 52 percent of Canada's carbon
emissions.


Heavy industry would be required to cut CO2 emissions per unit by
18 percent by 2010, or an average of six percent per year
starting immediately.


Thereafter, they would be expected to cut emissions by two
percent annually to reach a 26 percent reduction by 2015.


Under the scheme, companies could contribute to a government
clean technology fund, or trade emissions credits on a domestic
market to be set up by the government, with possible future
linkages with trading systems in the United States and Mexico.


They may also fetch credits under the Kyoto Protocol's clean
development mechanism to encourage projects in developing
countries, to reduce their emissions tally by up to 10 percent.


Companies which reduce their CO2 emissions linked to global
warming prior to 2006 would also be rewarded with a one-time
credit for early action, while new factories would get a three-
year exemption.


The minority government has clashed with Parliament over its
refusal to try to meet its Kyoto Protocol targets and has been
threatened with lawsuits to force emission cuts.


Last week, Baird outlined a doomsday economic scenario if Ottawa
imposed tougher measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions to meet
its international commitment.


He told a senate committee reviewing a private member's bill that
forces the government to meet its Kyoto timetable that these
emissions cuts would have "a devastating effect on the Canadian
economy," with hundreds of thousands of job losses and
skyrocketing unemployment.


Canada's economy would decline by more than 6.5 percent relative
to current projections in 2008, falling about 4.2 percent or
about 51 billion Canadian dollars (45 billion US) below the 2007
level, he predicted.


Under the current plan, gross domestic product would be slashed
by only 0.5 percent, costing the economy less than 8.0 billion
Canadian dollars (7.1 billion US) annually, Baird said Thursday.


Previously, Ottawa also announced rebates for more fuel-efficient
cars, rolled out new vehicle fuel-efficiency regulations that
echo US rules, and banned energy inefficient light bulbs.

