

Yang Jiechi, who was named as China's new foreign minister on
Friday, brings to the post vast experience in dealing with
Washington and a friendship with the Bush family.


Yang, who turns 57 next month, was ambassador to Washington from
2001 to 2005, and he has spent most of his career focused on
China's most important strategic relationship.


A Shanghai native who from 2005 had served as one of seven vice
foreign ministers, he replaces 66-year-old Li Zhaoxing, who
stepped down after four years in the post.


In a reflection of the continuity China apparently has sought in
choosing Yang, his career trajectory is closely similar to Li's,
Yang's predecessor as ambassador to the United States.


While ambassador, Yang proved his mettle on the world stage when
he was China's top negotiator during the 2001 spy plane incident
in Hainan.


Bilateral tensions had spiked after a US surveillance plane
collided with a Chinese fighter jet and was forced to land on
Chinese soil.


"While serving as ambassador to the United States from 2001 to
2005, Yang won acclaim for his efforts to promote China-US
cooperation and exchanges in fighting terrorism, trade and the
Korean Peninsula nuclear issue," Xinhua said.


"During his term in Washington, he was also said to be able to
tread a fine line in both firmly defending China's national
interests and maintaining smooth and stable ties with the United
States."


Yang, a fluent English speaker, is also known to be on good terms
with the family of US President George W. Bush.


He befriended the president's father in 1977 when former
president George H.W. Bush, then a diplomat in China, made a trip
to the Tibet region.


Yang had been working in the translation office of the ministry
of foreign affairs at the time.


In a visit to the United States during Bush Sr.'s term as
president, Yang was received in the White House, a gesture not
normally bestowed on ordinary diplomats.


Yang received degrees in the United Kingdom from Bath University
and the London School of Economics before joining the diplomatic
corps.


He spent much of his early career focusing on US relations and
was posted to the Chinese embassy in Washington as a minister in
1993.


After serving as ambassador he returned to China as a vice
foreign minister under Li, where he often was chosen to receive
top visiting US leaders.

