

The body of Bob Woolmer, the late coach of Pakistan's cricket
team, began its long trip home from Jamaica on Thursday and is
expected to arrive in South Africa by Sunday, police said here.


Woolmer, 58, was found dead in his Kingston hotel room on March
18, the day after Pakistan had crashed out of the World Cup in an
upset loss to Ireland. Police ruled his death a murder.


The casket bearing Woolmer's embalmed body left early Thursday
for the Norman Manley International Airport in Kingston.


It is scheduled to arrive at London's Heathrow Airport on
Saturday, then land in Cape Town the following day, said Mark
Shields, the police officer in charge of the murder
investigation.


A team of Jamaican police officers are to travel to South Africa
in early May "to speak with the relatives of Mr. Woolmer and have
talks with the South African police," said Karl Angell, a
spokesman for Jamaica's Constabulary Force.


Woolmer's body was held in a legal limbo for weeks after a post
mortem examination determined that the former England
international was strangled to death.


The Kingston coroner in charge of the case ruled that Woolmer's
body could not be released until after an inquest that had been
scheduled to begin April 23 had been completed.


The inquest, however, was canceled following concerns of a lack
of police resources as the Cricket World Cup semi-final game was
to be played at Sabina Park on the following day, police said.


Shields said that two Pakistani police officers, Deputy Inspector
General Mir Zubair Mahmood and Senior Superintendent Syed Khalid
Imam, were in Jamaica as "observers" in the case.


Mahmood told reporters in Kingston that they were satisfied with
the investigation into Woolmer's murder.


"I am going home fully satisfied and feel that the investigation
is heading in the right direction," Mahmood said. "We will remain
in touch and available to the Jamaican government and police as
and when they require our assistance."


Some 30 police investigators are working full-time on the Woolmer
investigation with over 100 witness statements taken.


Woolmer's death has led to a fevered round of speculation as to a
motive. The most common theory is that his death was linked to
match-fixing and illegal betting in cricket.

