

The former manager of US comedienne Joan Rivers told jurors
hearing Phil Spector's murder trial here Thursday how the
legendary producer flew into a gun- toting rage and threatened
her.


Dorothy Melvin told a hushed Los Angeles Superior Court that she
saw the two sides of Spector during an evening at his house in
Pasadena in 1993, 10 years before B-movie actress Lana Clarkson
was found shot dead in his home.


Melvin said she had spent a "lovely evening" with a "charming"
Spector -- who is on trial for murdering Clarkson at his castle-
style mansion four years ago -- after starting to date him
casually in the early 1990s.


The couple talked, danced and played pool until the early hours
of the morning, before Spector abruptly disappeared to another
part of the house, leaving her alone.


Melvin said she woke up on a couch shortly before dawn and
ventured outside to find Spector pointing a snub-nosed revolver
at her car.


"I screamed at him 'What the 'F' do you think you're doing and he
started screaming back at me 'Get the 'F' back inside the house,"
said Melvin. Spector struck her twice in the head with his gun-
hand, she added.


"I was terrified ... I was sobbing and I said 'Why are you doing
this Phil? Why are you doing this?" Melvin told the court calmly.


Melvin said Spector, who had consumed nearly an entire bottle of
vodka the previous evening, accused of her snooping around his
house, which was crammed with rock 'n' roll memorabilia, looking
for things to sell.


He eventually allowed her to leave but threatened her again with
a shotgun when she drove to the end of his driveway and found the
gates locked.


Melvin returned with police later to retrieve a purse Spector had
refused to give back to her. But she decided against pressing
charges in order to protect her employer, Rivers, from adverse
publicity.


Prosecutors say the incident involving Melvin fits a pattern of
violent behavior towards women by Spector involving guns. Three
more women are expected to testify of being threatened by the
legendary music producer.


District attorney Alan Jackson said earlier Clarkson was the
"last in a long line of women who fell victim to Phillip Spector
over the years."


Spector, 67, the reclusive musical genius who pioneered the 1960s
"Wall of Sound" recording technique, is accused of gunning down
40-year-old Clarkson on February 3, 2003, hours after meeting her
at a Hollywood nightclub.


Famed for his work with The Beatles, Tina Turner, The Righteous
Brothers, The Ronettes and The Ramones, Spector faces 15 years to
life in prison if he is convicted of second-degree murder.


He sat impassively through Melvin's testimony after arriving at
court wearing platform shoes and a dark three-piece suit,
featuring a trademark knee-length jacket.


Spector's defense team earlier told the court earlier that
Clarkson had killed herself, accusing police of "cherry-picking"
evidence to fit the assumption that they were dealing with a
murder.


Defense attorney Linda Kenney-Baden said science would prove
Spector was innocent. "We have one unimpeachable witness who has
no motive for or against anybody, no motive to lie for or against
any person, has no memory problems and no language problems,"
Kenney-Baden told jurors.


"The science will tell you that Phillip Spector did not shoot
Lana Clarkson, that he did not hold the gun, and that he did not
pull the trigger."


Kenney-Baden said that "a lot" of gunshot residue had been found
on Clarkson's hands and jacket. But when Spector's shirt and the
right sleeve of his jacket were analyzed, police found none.


"Why? It's an absence of evidence," Kenney-Baden said. "And it
proves that this means he did not shoot that gun. He was too far
away to be holding the gun and get GSR (gunshot residue) on his
clothes."


The hearing is the highest-profile celebrity case to be televised
since the OJ Simpson murder trial in 1995 and is expected to last
two to three months.

