

Tayshaun Prince scored 23 points and Chauncey Billups added 21 as
Detoit registered a 93-77 win to take a three-games-to-none lead
over Orlando Magic on Thursday.


Rasheed Wallace and Richard Hamilton added 15 points apiece for
the top-seeded Pistons who were never really been threatened in
the first three contests of the best-of-seven first round playoff
series. No team has ever come back from a 3-0 deficit.


"Obviously, we take one game at a time, now that we have three
wins it's important for us to go out there and get the fourth,"
Prince said.


"When you're up 2-0 and you're going on the road, you don't want
to talk about a sweep or anything like that. That's not how we do
things.


"We take it one possession at a time, one game at a time and now
that we're up 3-0 it is very important to close it out because
you can't give a team like this any life.


"We've done a great job of coming in here and getting the first
one but we really have to stay focused and come out strong in
Game Four."


Orlando coach Brian Hill isn't ready to pack it in.


"Well Game Four is a pride game," Hill said. "This is our
building, we let them come in tonight and let them get a win. We
have a game at home on Saturday afternoon, a quick turnaround.
We have to try to come in and establish ourselves and not let
them win the series.


Making it look easy, Detroit outmuscled Orlando on the glass,
47-39, and only turned the ball over eight times.


A veteran squad, the Pistons have cruised through the series
thanks to their stable of stars in the starting lineup.


In a league where a team's fate is directly linked to its
superstars, Detroit is not reliant on one particular player.


"The way we're built doesn't revolve around a superstar," Detroit
coach Flip Saunders said.


In game two, the Pistons' starting lineup of Billups, Hamilton,
Wallace, Prince and Chris Webber combined for 88 of the team's
points in a 98-90 win on Monday.


Three nights later, it was another balanced attack for the
Pistons, whose starting five combined for 84 - each scoring in
double figures.


However, each member of the Pistons' starting unit is capable of
taking over on any given night.


Ironically, on Thursday, Prince - the only Detroit starter who
has not made the All-Star team - made the biggest impact.

