

West Ham United manager Alan Curbishley has been told his job is
safe even if the club is relegated from the Premiership.


West Ham, three points adrift of safety with just three games
left of the season, face fellow strugglers Wigan Athletic in a
must-win game at the JJB Stadium on Saturday.


Defeat will leave the Hammers, who visit title-chasing Manchester
United on the last day, with a mountain to climb yet chairman
Eggert Magnusson believes Curbishley is the right man for the
job.


The London club looked doomed a couple of months ago yet
Magnusson is impressed with the character West Ham have shown
recently under the leadership of Curbishley, who replaced Alan
Pardew at Upton Park in December.


"I am very pleased with our progress in recent weeks," said West
Ham's Icelandic supremo. "We have won four of our last six games
and put in an excellent effort to give ourselves a chance of
remaining in this division.


"The work ethic and team spirit that Alan Curbishley has
instilled has been there for all to see on the pitch.


"He (Curbishley) has an excellent record in football management
and has taken the club to within touching distance of safety,
when a few months ago things were looking more difficult.


"Since Alan was first appointed in December, I've got to know him
better as a person as well as a manager and I have no doubt that
he is the right man to take West Ham United forward.


"During the January transfer window we spent virtually every
single day together, he would come straight to my office after
training and matches and we would plan what was needed to grow
and strengthen the team.


"Throughout this time I came to understand just how dedicated and
focused Alan is to his job and it cemented my belief that I had
appointed the right man."


Saturday's game promises to be a tense affair with Wigan's
Premiership status also hanging in the balance.


A six-match run without a win has left Paul Jewell's side just
three points above the relegation zone yet West Ham's battle to
avoid the drop could be all over even before kick-off.


The club is facing a devastating points deduction relating to the
signings of Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano after being
accused of breaking the rule which forbids the ownership of
players by a third party and of failing to provide correct
documentation.


The maximum penalty if West Ham are found guilty is a points
deduction, which could all but confirm their relegation from the
Premiership.


Jewell said the timing of the Premier League hearing was
unhelpful to West Ham and the teams around them.


"If it was going to be dealt with it should have been done a long
time ago," said the Wigan manager. "That would have given
everyone a fair crack of the whip.


"It would have given West Ham an opportunity, if they had lost
points, to deal with it. They have left it to a very late stage
of the season. It seems crazy to me."


Jewell believes West Ham can still survive and has warned his
players to expect one of their toughest battles of the season.


"Three or four weeks ago everyone said they were relegated,"
added Jewell. "I was not one of those people. I've never written
West Ham off. They have decent players."


Jewell said Wigan's fate was in their own hands. "There's no
point feeling sorry for yourself because you've just got to get
on with it," he said.


"We've got two homes games and one away. All you can do is ask
for your destiny to be in your own hands and it is. We have to
play with our heads as well as our hearts over the next three
games."

