

Australia's resurgent centre-left Labor Party Friday targeted the
government's record on the Iraq war and climate change at a
national conference ahead of elections it is tipped to win this
year.


Popular new leader Kevin Rudd, 49, swept into the conference hall
to a standing ovation from a party faithful scenting victory and
the upbeat tempo of a specially-commissioned song -- "A change in
the weather".


Opinion polls since Rudd's election as Labor leader last December
have consistently shown him and his party well ahead of Prime
Minister John Howard, 67, and the governing conservative Liberal-
National coalition.


Rudd, a fresh-faced former diplomat who served in China and
speaks Mandarin, attacked Howard, a close ally of US President
George W. Bush, as "increasingly arrogant and out of touch" after
11 years in power.


"When I look to the next decade, the future that I see for
Australia is one fundamentally shaped by the rise of China and
the rise of India," he said.


"The future I see for Australia I also see shaped by the rise of
militant Islamism -- not just in the Middle East but also in
Islamic South East Asia."


Australia's involvement in the Iraq war was the country's worst
foreign policy decision since it entered the Vietnam war, he
said. Labor has vowed to withdraw Australia's 1,400 troops from
Iraq operations if it wins power.


But with a relatively small number of soldiers in Iraq and no
deaths from enemy action, Iraq is not as big an election issue in
Australia as it is in the United States and Britain.


Instead, Rudd focused on climate change, an increasingly hot
political topic as Australia faces its worst drought on record.


Apart from Bush, Howard is the only leader of a major developed
nation who has refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on global
warming, and Rudd accused him of being more than a climate change
sceptic.


"Mr Howard is a climate change denier," he said.


"This is the modern equivalent of arguing that the earth is flat
and that NASA faked the moon landing and that Elvis is out there
somewhere still flipping burgers in Florida.


"That's how in touch with reality Mr Howard is on this one."


But Rudd said Labor would not win the elections by simply
attacking the government, and spelled out a series of policy
initiatives which he said would maintain Australia's prosperity
while ensuring "a fair go" for all.


Howard has acknowledged that he faces a major fight to win a
fifth term in office in elections due by the end of the year, but
has publicly pegged his hopes for re-election on the booming
economy.


Among Rudd's initiatives was a pledge to repeal new labour
legislation pushed through by the government, which critics say
strip power from unions and erode job security, wages and
conditions.


He has, however, pledged that a Labor government would not be
held hostage by its traditional supporters in the unions and
would govern for all Australians.

