

Citigroup said Friday that it had triumphed in its massive
takeover offer for Nikko Cordial, securing a majority stake in
the scandal-tainted Japanese securities firm for 7.7 billion
dollars.


The US financial giant is betting that it can succeed where
rivals such as Merrill Lynch have failed with a big expansion in
Japan, which is finally emerging from an economic slump
stretching back more than a decade.


The large deal also underscores the gradual opening up of Japan's
once tightly protected economy to foreign companies.


The US banking heavyweight increased its bid to a total of 13.4
billion dollars last month in an effort to win over sceptical
shareholders although some investors still declined to sell.


Citigroup raised its stake in Japan's third-largest brokerage
firm to almost 61.1 percent from 4.9 percent previously through a
tender offer of 1,700 yen per share that closed on Thursday, it
said in a statement.


"We are very pleased to now fully pursue our alliance with Nikko
Cordial, a premier Japanese financial institution with whom we
already have a strong relationship," Citigroup chief executive
Charles Prince said in a statement.


"The successful completion of the tender underscores our focus on
seizing opportunities to grow internationally, both organically
and through targeted acquisitions," he added.


Nikko Cordial chief executive Shoji Kuwashima said the deal would
provide a major boost for the Japanese firm.


"This strategic alliance is a significant step in positioning our
company for future growth, helping us meet the evolving needs of
our retail and corporate clients through our collaboration with
Citigroup," he said.


Citigroup's bid succeeded despite resistance from some major
foreign investors who said the offer was too low.


The deal marks a renewed expansion by Citigroup in Japan after a
difficult few years here with a series of retreats, including a
major scaling down of its consumer finance business announced in
January.


Japan has proved a huge but difficult market for US banks to
crack.


Merrill Lynch started a retail business in Japan in 1998 when it
took over operations from failed brokerage Yamaichi Securities
Co. but the US firm shut the network in 2002 amid a stock market
slump and deepening recession.


Citigroup's agreed offer for Nikko Cordial in March came as its
Japanese partner faced a possible delisting from the Tokyo Stock
Exchange over the fraud scandal, although in the end its shares
were allowed to continue trading.


Nikko Cordial admitted last December to having falsified its
financial statements for the fiscal years that ended in March
2005 and March 2006, inflating its profits by 21 billion yen
(175.5 million dollars).


A panel of outside experts found that former executives had been
"actively involved" in the systematic violation of laws and
Japan's financial authority imposed its largest-ever fine of 500
million yen on the brokerage firm.


Nikko Cordial shares rose 64 yen or 3.78 percent to 1,755 in
early trade on news that the tender offer had succeeded.


"The announcement relieved investors of fears that Citigroup
might fail to garner a majority stake," said a dealer at a
European asset management firm.


Nikko Cordial said earlier this week its net profit slumped 11.2
percent in the year to March to 78.1 billion yen, even though its
revenue rose 8.5 percent to 516.6 billion yen.

