

The three biggest pro-union political parties in Scotland may
band together to shut the Scottish National Party, which is
campaigning for Scottish independence, off from power, its leader
said in an interview published Friday.


The SNP has been leading most major opinion polls ahead of
elections for the Scottish Parliament on May 3, and it is looking
increasingly likely that it will unseat Labour as the biggest
party in the assembly, but is unlikely to be able to form a
government on its own, and will need to form a coalition.


However, Alex Salmond, the SNP's leader, told the Financial Times
that he has "been noticing rumours" that Labour, the Liberal
Democrats and the Conservatives may consider "ganging up" to
ensure that the SNP does not form a government.


"I've certainly been noticing rumours over the past few days of
the potential of a pan-unionist coalition, with Labour, the
Liberal Democrats and the Tories -- arithmetically it would
probably need all three -- to try and crowd out the SNP from
administration," Salmond told the business daily.


"People, whatever their views, expect that whoever wins the
election, in the sense of becoming the biggest party, should have
a go at being the administration.


"To suggest there will be a unionist shut-out is really
circumventing the ballot box."


Salmond also said he thought it would be difficult for the
Liberal Democrats, currently forming a coalition government with
Labour, to be able to justify joining another coalition
administration with the party, because of its increasing
unpopularity.


"In a PR (proportional representation) system it can be difficult
to say who has won the election, but there will be no argument
about who has lost. Therefore it would be very, very difficult
for the Lib Dems to say 'never mind that, we'll keep Labour in
power'."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's government in 1999 gave
Scotland devolved powers over health, education, housing and the
environment, but not defence, foreign and economic policy.

