

Sir Alex Ferguson claims praise for his Manchester United side is
premature ahead of the final weeks of the campaign.


Ferguson's side has already begun to attract a host of accolades
after maintaining their triple challenge for honours right
through to the climax of the season.


And the United manager admitted he was thrilled to see eight
members of his first team squad honoured by the Professional
Footballers Association awards this week.


Cristiano Ronaldo headed that list by claiming the player-of-the-
year and young- player-of-the-year awards while the Portuguese
and seven of his team-mates dominated the selection of the
Premiership team of the year.


But Ferguson has warned the true test of his side's abilities
lies in the weeks ahead and their ability to stay in the hunt for
silverware - starting with the Premiership trip to Everton this
weekend - will determine their lasting reputation.


"The PFA awards were a great night for Ronaldo and a great night
for the club," he said. "But they were voted for in February and
only tell you what's been happening up until then.


"What we have to do now is be great in April and May. That's the
time to be great.


"If the players don't smell the scent of something big in their
lives now then they never will. It's a great opportunity for
them."


Last weekend's home draw to Middlesbrough threatened to derail
United's bid to win the Premiership title for the first time in
four years.


But with Chelsea failing to win at Newcastle United 24 hours
later, Ferguson's side visit Everton's Goodison Park still
enjoying a three-point advantage over their nearest rivals with
four games remaining.


United were given a further lift when they secured a 3-2 first
leg victory over AC Milan in the Champions League semi-final
although they will travel to Merseyside still battling against a
crippling injury crisis.


Defenders Gary Neville, Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand will once
again miss out, as will striker Louis Saha and midfielder Park
Ji-Sung.


Everton's hopes of consolidating their grip on fifth spot won't
be helped by the loss of keeper Tim Howard, who is ineligible as
a condition of his season-long loan move from United.


In his place will come Richard Wright who is expected to end his
five-year stay at the club when his current contract expires this
summer.


"Richard has got a terrific attitude," said manager David Moyes.
"It is disappointing that we have not got Tim Howard but I will
not have any qualms about putting Richard back in.


"You can never fault his work in training and he is a great lad
to have around the place. He won't let anyone down."


Moyes is also likely to restore Portugal midfielder Manuel
Fernandes to the line-up following his substitute appearance at
West Ham United last weekend.


The manager added: "We lacked a bit of quality in the final third
but we improved when Manuel came on and it is good to have him
back amongst it."

