

Amnesty International urged Canada Thursday to name a special
envoy to seek the liberation of a Chinese-born Canadian sentenced
to life in prison in China.


Alex Neve, secretary general of Amnesty International Canada,
said it was "vital" to appoint a special envoy who would lead and
coordinate Ottawa's efforts to free Huseyin Celil, 37.


China's announcement last week of the sentence against the ethnic
Uighur on separatism and terrorism charges during a closed trial
has sparked tensions between Ottawa and Beijing.


"We think a special envoy, someone with the right experience and
credibility and relationships within China, is precisely the kind
of person who could foster some dialogue, who could make sure
that those avenues start to open," Neve said in a news
conference.


"We're not talking about a process that would play out publicly
under media spotlight," he said.


Cecil's verdict came ahead of a visit to China later this month
by Canadian Foreign Minister Peter MacKay, during which he has
said he would raise the issue.


In a statement last week, MacKay said Ottawa was "gravely
concerned about allegations that Mr. Celil has been mistreated
while in Chinese custody and possibly subjected to torture,"
accusing Beijing of a possible "serious breach" of the UN
convention against torture.


MacKay also chided Beijing for "persistently refusing to respond
adequately to our concerns with respect to due process" for Celil
and for failing to grant Canadian diplomats access to him "in
spite of repeated requests."


According to his wife in Canada, Kamila Telendibaeva, Celil was
extradited from Uzbekistan to China during a trip in May 2006
where he vanished into Chinese custody.


Celil fled China a decade ago, arrived in Canada in 2001 as a
refugee and became a Canadian citizen. Under Chinese law, he
automatically lost his Chinese citizenship upon becoming
Canadian.


Cecil's attorney, Chris MacLeod, said his client was punished for
defending the cause of the Uighur people from Canada.


"That is the crime we believe he is now being punished and tried
for," MacLeod said.

