

England football great Alan Ball died as a result of natural
causes, a post mortem examination has found, police reported on
Thursday.


The 61-year-old member of the victorious 1966 England World Cup
squad was found dead at his home in Hook Lane, Warsash, Hants, on
Wednesday.


He died of a heart attack while putting out a small fire which
had broken out in a compost heap in his garden, according to his
family.


And a Hampshire police spokeswoman said: "We have been informed
by the coroner's office at Portsmouth that Mr Ball died as a
result of natural causes."


Football clubs across the country will pay tribute to the player
this weekend with one minute's applause preceding all Premier
League and Football League matches.


Figures from across the footballing world have paid tribute to
Ball, who produced a man-of-the-match performance to help England
to their Wembley victory against West Germany.


The Football League's chief operating officer Andy Williamson,
said: "Alan made an enormous contribution to League football as a
player and a manager and his part in English football's proudest
day will live long in the memory.


"Having a minute's applause at every match this weekend will give
supporters the opportunity to pay their own tribute."


Prime Minister Tony Blair and Prince William, who is president of
the Football Association, said they were saddened by the news,
while leading the tributes from the football community was World
Cup-winning goalscorer Sir Geoff Hurst, who said the other
members of the 1966 team were "totally devastated".


Sir Bobby Charlton said he was shocked and saddened by the death
of his World Cup team-mate.


The former Manchester United midfielder said: "He was probably
the best player that day and if it had not been for his impact
the result could have been totally different. He did not appear
to have a nerve in his body, and he was an inspiration to us
all."


Just hours before his death, Ball had watched Manchester United
beat AC Milan 3-2 on the television and talked with his son
enthusiastically about the game.


Ball's son Jimmy, 31, and daughters Mandy Byrne, 39, and Keely
Allan, 35, said the world of football had lost a great person and
they hoped he was at peace.


Ball said his father missed his wife Lesley terribly after she
died from cancer three years ago and added: "I hope they are
together now."


The couple were married for more than 36 years. Ball said: `"e
are extremely proud of him and we hope he is peaceful and with
our mother, wherever they may be.


"From what we can gather, our father was at his compost heap
which caught alight. Whilst trying to fight the fire, he suffered
a fatal heart attack.


"I would like him to be known as a nice man with a passion for
football. He had a big heart and was very generous."


Ball won 72 caps for his country in a 10-year career and he made
a total of 743 League appearances for Blackpool, Everton, Arsenal
and Southampton.


He later managed seven clubs including Manchester City,
Southampton and Portsmouth during a career in the dugout which
spanned 19 years.


In later years he was a regular on the guest speaker circuit and
a keen golfer.

