

The sputtering dollar managed to stage a modest rebound Thursday
as traders hedged positions ahead of a key reading on US economic
growth.


The euro failed to hit a new all-time high on the greenback but
did set a record against the yen thanks to positive growth
prospects for the 13-nation single currency zone.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3598 dollars at 2100 GMT,
against 1.3636 dollars late Wednesday.


The single currency fetched 162.57 yen, its strongest level ever
against the Japanese currency, up from 161.92 on Wednesday.


The dollar meanwhile traded at 119.54 yen from 118.72 Wednesday
and at 1.2084 Swiss francs after 1.2044.


The pound slipped below two dollars to 1.9911 dollars from
2.0014.


John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets said there was some
hesitation about driving the dollar to fresh lows a day ahead of
the initial reading on US gross domestic product for the first
quarter, seen as the best measure of overall economic growth.


"Tomorrow's GDP report promises the single greatest piece of
event risk the US calendar has seen in some time," he said.


"The world's largest economy has slowed considerably in the past
year and it is expected to have cooled even more over the first
three months of this year."


Economists on average are forecasting a 1.8 percent pace of US
growth from 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006.


"It seems we may have to wait for Friday's US GDP figure to see a
clear break of the euro-dollar high," Commerzbank currency
strategist Gavin Friend said.


The report will be a key to determining whether the Federal
Reserve cuts interest rates to stimulate a flagging economy or
holds steady in the face of strong growth and inflation
pressures.


"Should the indicator print in line with expectations or
disappoint, it would likely redouble doves' efforts in
encouraging the Federal Open Market Committee to ease up on the
reins and cut interest rates," Kicklighter said.


Jordan Eburne at PNC Bank said the greenback got a modest lift
from news that initial jobless claims fell by 20,000 to 321,000
in the week ended April 21, suggesting the US labor market and
economic conditions remain firm.


"This morning's slight strength in the dollar may be short-lived
as higher gasoline prices could slow consumer spending, and a
decrease in business spending may cause some employers to reduce
their payroll," the analyst said.


On Wednesday the euro had set a new two-year high of 1.3665
dollars, almost touching its December 30, 2004 record high of
1.3666.


The euro hit its record against the yen as the market braced for
a series of Japanese economic reports on Friday including
unemployment, consumer prices and industrial output, as well as
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook report.


Investors have driven the euro higher on growing expectations of
further interest rate rises by the European Central Bank, with
many economists forecasting a quarter-point hike to 4.00 percent
in June.


That would make eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to change other currencies into the euro.


The market also expects another rate hike from the Bank of
England next month to 5.50 percent after inflation jumped to a
15-year high of 3.1 percent in March, and the British economy
continues to grow above its long-run average.

