

President George W. Bush and the Democratic-led Congress were on
a major collision course after lawmakers passed a bill Thursday
to start withdrawing US troops from Iraq in October.


Despite a certain Bush veto, the Senate and House of
Representatives narrowly approved legislation this week tying 124
billion dollars in war funds to a schedule with the start of the
pullout as early as October 1.


Bush could strike the legislation down by Tuesday with the aim of
quickly getting a new bill on his desk acceptable to both sides
as soon as possible to provide the money for military operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan.


"As soon as we get the bill the president, as you can imagine,
would make good on his promise to veto it," White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


"You can assume that the president would soon meet quickly after
with the congressional leaders in order to start work on the
bill," she said.


The bill, which passed 218-208 in the House on Wednesday and
51-46 in the Senate on Thursday and has a non-binding target of
completing the pullout by March 31, 2008, comes as public support
for the four-year-old war has plunged.


It also passed Congress as more US troops deploy to Iraq as part
of Bush's temporary troop "surge" plan to quell nonstop violence
in Iraq, a strategy that will increase the number of American
soldiers from 145,000 to 160,000.


Iraq was a central theme of the first presidential debate between
eight Democrats vying to succeed Bush on Thursday, more than 18
months before the November 2008 election.


"Congress has voted, as of today, to end this war. And now we can
only hope that the president will listen," Democratic frontrunner
Senator Hillary Clinton said during the debate in Orangeburg,
South Carolina.


Her Senate colleague and chief rival for the Democratic Party's
nomination, Barack Obama, criticized the "disastrous conditions
that we've seen on the ground in Iraq."


"The American people have said, Republicans and Democrats, that
it's time to end this war," Obama said.


Back in Washington, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the
approved bill "sets us on a new course, away from a civil war
with no end in sight toward a responsible phased redeployment
that holds Iraqis accountable."


"If the president refuses to change direction, America risks
being bogged down in Iraq for years, not months," Reid said.


"For a president that took the country to war under false
pretenses, he now needs the courage to admit his policies have
failed and work with us to bring the war to a responsible end.
This bill gives him a path forward."


But the White House branded the bill a surrender to Iraqi
insurgents.


"The Senate has now joined the House in passing defeatist
legislation that insists on a date for surrender, micromanages
our commanders and generals in combat zones from 6,000 miles
(9,600 kilometers) away, and adds billions of dollars in
unrelated spending to the fighting on the ground," Perino said.


House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, whose Democratic Party won control of
Congress in November elections thanks largely to voter anger over
the war, said the bill reflected the will of the American people.


"In the last election, the American people called for a new
direction. Nowhere were they more firm in that new direction
being necessary than in the war in Iraq," she said.


The bill could reach Bush on May 1, the fourth anniversary of his
2003 speech on the deck of the US aircraft carrier USS Abraham
Lincoln, in which he declared "victory" in Iraq under a giant
"Mission Accomplished" banner.


Perino suggested that Bush's Democratic critics had dragged out
the legislative process in order to tie it to the speech, calling
that a "ridiculous PR (public relations) stunt" and "the height
of cynicism."


The "Mission Accomplished" speech, in which he declared "major
combat" over, has dogged Bush as the symbol of what critics
charge is his excessive optimism about the conflict.

