

Canadian companies could buy and sell carbon credits on a
domestic exchange to help them meet new stringent emissions
targets announced Thursday, Environment Minister John Baird said.


Heavy industries that account for 52 percent of Canada's carbon
emissions would be allowed to trade emissions credits on a
domestic market to be set up by the government, with possible
future linkages with trading systems in the United States and
Mexico.


"The government will set up the necessary tools for a carbon
market in Canada, but it will be operated by the private sector
and based probably in Montreal or Toronto," Eric Richer, a
spokesman for Baird, told AFP.


Companies may also fetch credits from abroad under the Kyoto
Protocol's clean development mechanism to encourage clean
projects in developing countries, but only to reduce their
emissions tally by up to 10 percent.


The ruling Conservatives previously refused to participate in
this international mechanism, saying Canadian dollars should be
spent on domestic clean air projects.


Under a new scheme, companies could contribute to a government
clean technology fund, or trade local emissions credits, and any
firm that reduced its CO2 emissions linked to global warming
prior to 2006 would be rewarded with a one- time credit.


The government's environmental plan, unveiled Thursday, calls for
a 20 percent carbon emissions cut by 2020, based on 2006 levels,
and by up to 70 percent by 2050.


Canadian producers of electricity using combustion, the booming
oil and gas sector, base metal smelters, iron and steel
companies, and some mining firms, as well as cement, pulp and
paper, aluminum and chemicals producers face mandatory emissions
cuts.


The European Union's Emissions Trading System (ETS) is the first
and so far only significant market in carbon, created by the UN
pact and comprising 11,500 big industrial firms that account for
about half of the 25-nation bloc's CO2 output.


But its crash, with CO2 now changing hands in the ETS at little
more than one euro after soaring to 30 euros (33 dollars) a tonne
last year, triple that at the market's launch in January 2005,
has worried observers.


The ETS works under a cap-and-trade approach.


Each firm is given a quota. They face a penalty of 40 euros (52
dollars) for every excess tonne of CO2 for 2007 (and also for
2006), a punishment that will rise to 100 euros (130 dollars) a
tonne from 2008.


Companies that are under quota can sell off any surplus to those
over their quota, thus providing a financial carrot to everyone
to clean up his act.

