

Ever since Sri Lanka spinner Muttiah Muralitharan was called for
throwing by Australian umpires in the mid-1990s, relations
between the two teams have been less than cordial.


The rivalry will be renewed when Mahela Jayawardene's Sri Lankans
clash with Ricky Ponting's world champions in what could be a
needle World Cup final here on Saturday.


Sri Lanka were considered a talented, but soft side when they
made their debut as qualifiers in the 1975 World Cup in England,
but their image changed when Arjuna Ranatunga was named captain
in 1988.


Australia were the first to get familiar with Sri Lanka's new
face when Ranatunga protested their umpires' decision to question
ace off-spinner Muralitharan's bowling action.


A war of words between the Sri Lanka captain and now-retired
Australia leg- spinner Shane Warne also added fuel to the fire in
coming years.


Muralitharan once shunned touring Australia after his bitter
experience with cricket fans who made his life uncomfortable with
their repeated taunts over his bowling action.


The relations between the two sides became worse when Australia
refused to play in Sri Lanka in the 1996 World Cup, citing
security reasons.


But the Aussies were unable to completely avoid the islanders.


Ranatunga's Sri Lankans settled more than a score or two when
they thrashed Mark Taylor's Australians by seven wickets in the
day-night final at Lahore.


Not many had given Sri Lanka a chance to succeed against
Australia who were then considered as formidable as they are now.


It was a tribute to Ranatunga's shrewd captaincy that he
outwitted his Australian counterpart.


Ranatunga used his quartet of spinners -- Muralitharan, Kumar
Dharmasena, Sanath Jayasuriya and Aravinda de Silva -- remarkably
well against Australia's stroke- makers to restrict the
opposition to 241-7.


Middle-order batsman De Silva then scored a gem of century to
help his team surpass the Australian total with more than three
overs to spare. He was named man of the match.


Ranatunga himself provided the finishing touches with an unbeaten
47 in an unbroken 97-run stand for the fourth wicket with De
Silva.


"We were four years ahead of ourselves in winning the World Cup,"
said Ranatunga.


The Australian captain conceded that Sri Lanka were the deserving
champions.


"Sri Lanka have improved a hell of a lot in the past few years in
one-day cricket and they now have a game-plan -- positive batting
and defensive bowling," Taylor said after his team's defeat.


Australia were swift to exact revenge when they met Sri Lanka
next time in  the World Cup, winning the 2003 semi-final by 48
runs at Port Elizabeth.


Sri Lanka now have six survivors from that match -- Jayawardene,
Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara, Chaminda Vaas, Russel Arnold and
Muralitharan.


The current Australian side also contain six players who played
in that match - skipper Ricky Ponting, Matthew Hayden, Andrew
Symonds, Brad Hogg, Adam Gilchrist and Glenn McGrath.

