

Pop and rock stars account for nearly three billion pounds (4.4
billion euros, 5.9 billion dollars) in an annual list of the
richest people in Britain and Ireland to appear this weekend.


The Sunday Times Rich List includes 38 entries from people whose
fortunes derive from the music industry, and many of them are now
old enough to claim their pensions, the newspaper said Friday.


The two surviving members of The Beatles -- Paul McCartney and
Ringo Starr -- plus the late George Harrison's family, have a
combined wealth of more than one billion pounds.


They are followed by the Rolling Stones, who are worth 570
million pounds together, with singer Mick Jagger sitting on a 215
-million-pound fortune.


Ireland's U2 are the wealthiest Irish music millionaires, with a
combined wealth of 487 million pounds.


Five other supergroups make onto the list: Pink Floyd (David
Gilmour and Roger Waters, 85 million pounds each); Queen (Brian
May, 75 million pounds; Roger Taylor, 70 million pounds); The Bee
Gees (Barry and Robin Gibb, 120 million pounds combined); Led
Zeppelin (Jimmy Page and Robert Plant, 70 million pounds each);
and Coldplay, whose four members are worth 30 million pounds
each.


The Rich List profiles the 1,000 wealthiest people and families
in Britain plus the richest 250 in Ireland.


No advance details have been given of the richest person. Last
year, Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal, a British resident,
topped the list with a 14.88 -billion-pound fortune.


The list is based on identifiable wealth -- land, property, plus
other assets like racehorse and art, or significant shares in
publicly-quoted companies.


It does not include bank accounts, as the newspaper cannot access
them.


The threshold for entry this year is 70 million pounds, 10
million pounds more than last time around.


The increased threshold means that Queen's John Deacon and Dire
Straits' Mark Knopfler (65 million pounds each) dropped off the
list.


Former record label boss Clive Calder tops the music millionaires
at 1.3 billion pounds, followed by Andrew Lloyd-Webber (750
million pounds) then McCartney.


List compilers said McCartney dropped down the list this year
because they made a 100-million-pound allowance for the possible
cost of his divorce from wife Heather.


Other notable music millionaires include Madonna and Guy Ritchie
(275 million pounds combined); Elton John (225 million pounds);
Sting (185 million pounds); Eric Clapton (140 million pounds);
David Bowie (120 million pounds).

