

Ford Motor Co. raced ahead of expectations in the first quarter
as the struggling auto giant Thursday said its loss narrowed
sharply to 282 million dollars.


That was a huge improvement after a loss of 1.4 billion dollars
in the same period a year ago, and was well ahead of market
expectations as the company progressed with a painful
reorganization that aims to restore profitability.


The loss equated to nine cents a share excluding one-time costs,
much better than the deficit of 60 cents per share expected on
Wall Street.


"Most analysts, including this one, had to do a double-take on
the headline figures," said Kimberly DuBord at Briefing.com.


Revenues for the January-March quarter increased five percent to
43 billion dollars, also better than market forecasts.


Ford, which lost a record 12.7 billion dollars in 2006, said its
Europe, South America and Mazda divisions all were profitable in
the latest quarter and that cost savings in North America were
starting to help the results.


The company has been struggling amid fierce competition from
Asian automakers and a shift away from fuel-hungry sport utility
vehicles, which had been the most profitable segment for Detroit.


"We are making progress on executing the four priorities of our
plan -- restructuring the company, accelerating product
development, funding our plan and working effectively as one
team," said chief executive Alan Mulally.


"I am pleased that the basics of our business are improving, but
we still have a lot of work to do."


Ford shares shot higher by more than four percent as the results
surprised Wall Street.


JP Morgan Securities analyst Himanshu Patel said the results were
"sharply better than expected," and "quite impressive."


The company said cost cuts saved 500 million dollars in the
quarter, bringing the total amount of annualized savings to 1.9
billion dollars since the reorganization plan was announced last
year.


Ford wants to cut five billion dollars from annual operating
costs by 2008, in a plan that features the elimination of 44,000
jobs and closing a number of North American plants.


Despite the improving results overall, Ford's North America
automotive operations saw its loss rise to 614 million dollars
compared with 442 million a year earlier.


The European division showed an operating profit of 219 million
dollars, up from 65 million a year ago as revenues increased.


The division for Asia Pacific and Africa swung to a loss of 26
million dollars amid "adverse currency exchange and unfavorable
volume and mix," according to the company.


Ford's Premier Automotive Group, which includes Land Rover,
Jaguar and Volvo, reported a record profit of 402 million dollars
on higher revenues. Ford reached an agreement in the quarter to
sell the Aston Martin nameplate.


Despite the strong improvement, some analysts remained skeptical
about Ford's progress after a seventh consecutive quarterly loss.


David Terbessy, an analyst with CSM Worldwide, said Ford
desperately needs additional new products to beef up its lineup.


"They need another hit vehicle outside the Fusion-Milan (midsize
sedan) segment to deliver more sales," he said. "They've been way
too dependent on the F-Series (pickup truck). It's a great
vehicle but its only one product."


Others said Ford may not be ready with fuel-efficient vehicles if
energy costs keep rising.


"While cost-cutting efforts may boost domestic auto profits, a
number of factors including high gasoline prices may counter
this," Standard & Poor's Efraim Levy noted in a recent
report.

