

North Korean refugees being held at a Thai detention centre have
ended a hunger strike staged to protest delays to their
resettlement in South Korea, the UN refugee agency said Friday.


"The hunger strike was over yesterday," said Giuseppe de
Vincentis, deputy regional representative of the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), in Bangkok. He declined to
give further details.


The hunger strike, which began late Tuesday, ended Thursday
afternoon, although some North Koreans resumed eating on
Wednesday, the UN agency and Thai immigration officials said.


Officials and rights activists gave differing accounts of how
many people took part in the hunger strike. Thailand's
immigration bureau said Thursday more than 300 were involved,
while the United Nations said around 100 North Koreans had joined
it.


The refugees launched the hunger strike after Thai authorities
abruptly put off their scheduled trip to South Korea. They were
supposed to leave Thailand several days ago, according to the
UNHCR.


The UN said no new date for departure had been set, but Thai
immigration officials told the North Koreans they would soon
leave for the South, the South Korean news agency Yonhap said
Thursday, quoting embassy officials here.


Officials at South Korea's embassy and at Thai immigration
declined to comment.


The detention centre is holding 414 North Koreans, including 314
women and 100 men, according to the International Campaign to
Block the Repatriation of North Korean Refugees.


Tens of thousands of North Koreans, fleeing hunger or repression
in the hardline communist state, have travelled across the border
to China in recent years.


But China has an agreement with its close ally North Korea to
repatriate them as economic migrants, a policy strongly
criticised by refugee aid groups.


If forcefully returned, these North Koreans face harsh punishment
including jail terms and forced labour, according to rights
groups.


To avoid forced repatriation, the refugees often travel on to
third countries in hopes of winning eventual resettlement in
South Korea, and Thailand is an increasingly popular destination
for the refugees.


The number of North Koreans arrested for illegal entry in
Thailand soared to 400 in 2006 from 50 the year before.

