

The inaugural 1975 World Cup in England was virtually
unrecognisable by modern standards, for it was not all about
glamour and slam-bang batting now associated with one-day
cricket.


In the run-up to Saturday's 2007 final at Kensington Oval, AFP
Sports presents a history of the nine finals so far:


1975: Lord's


West Indies bt Australia by 17 runs


The final will be remembered as much for Clive Lloyd's 102 as for
Australia's fightback. Add to it Viv Richards's superb piece of
fielding which led to three of the five run-outs.


The West Indies were 50-3 before posting a daunting 291-8 off 60
overs despite a five-wicket effort from Gary Gilmour.


Australian captain Ian Chappell hit a gutsy 62, while fast bowler
Keith Boyce taking four wickets to reduce Australia to 233-9.


But the last-wicket pair of Dennis Lillee and Jeff Thomson
threatened to conjure up an unexpected win. The West Indies
sweated as the Australians added 41.


The fightback ended when Thomson became the fifth run-out victim
trying to steal a bye to wicket-keeper Deryck Murray, who hit the
stumps with just eight balls remaining.


1979: Lord's


West Indies bt England by 92 runs


The West Indies were in trouble at 99-4 after being put in to bat
by England skipper Mike Brearley, but Viv Richards (138 not out)
and Collis King (86) put on 139 for the fifth wicket as England
were set a 287-run target.


England openers Geoff Boycott and Brearley put on 129, but
consumed more than half of the stipulated 60 overs. The remaining
batsmen found it difficult to keep pace with the required run-
rate and England lost by 92 runs.


The last eight England wickets fell for 11 runs, with Joel Garner
emerging the wrecker-in-chief with 5-38 off 11 overs.


1983: Lord's


India bt West Indies by 43 runs


India managed only 183 against a fearsome pace attack of Andy
Roberts, Joel Garner, Michael Holding and Marshall.


But Indian medium-pacers Madan Lal, Mohinder Amarnath, Balwinder
Sandhu and Roger Binny were superbly marshalled by skipper Kapil
Dev to script a fairytale.


If there were one shot that buried the West Indies' dream, it was
Viv Richards's hook off Lal. If there were one catch that
resurrected India, it was Dev's to account for Richards.


The West Indies were all out for 140 to hand India a 43-run
victory.


1987: Kolkata


Australia bt England by seven runs


Australia had the crowd support at Eden Gardens after England had
knocked out India and they were also fortune's favourites as an
ill-timed reverse-sweep by Mike Gatting made their day.


Australia rode on David Boon's 75 to post 253-5, a total which
never looked safe during a Bill Athey-Gatting partnership.
England were strongly placed at 135-2 before disaster struck.


Gatting (41) attempted a reverse-sweep off his counterpart Allan
Border only to give wicket-keeper Greg Dyer a simple catch.


1992: Melbourne


Pakistan bt England by 22 runs


Imran Khan led from the front, top-scoring with 72 to help his
side post 249-6. Javed Miandad (58), Inzamam-ul-Haq (42) and
Wasim Akram (33) also chipped in.


England then floundered against the leg-spin of Mushtaq Ahmed,
who removed Graham Gooch, Graeme Hick and Dermont Reeve. Left-arm
paceman Akram also grabbed three wickets as England were all out
for 227.


Neil Fairbrother top-scored for England with 62 before Imran
sparked celebrations in his team's camp by taking the last
wicket.


1996: Lahore


Sri Lanka bt Australia by seven wickets


Sri Lanka played the final as if they had a score to settle with
Australia who had caused controversy earlier in the tournament by
refusing to play a group game in Colombo because of safety fears.


Skipper Arjuna Ranatunga defied history when he put the
opposition in after winning the toss, for no team had previously
won the Cup chasing a target.


Australia were 137-1 after a century stand between Mark Taylor
(74) and Ricky Ponting (45) before Ranatunga restricted them to
241.


Australia dismissed explosive Sri Lanka openers Sanath Jayasuriya
and Romesh Kaluwitharana cheaply, but Aravinda de Silva received
valuable support from Asanka Gurusinha (65) and Ranatunga (47 not
out) to steer his team home.


1999: Lord's


Australia bt Pakistan by eight wickets


The final was an anti-climax after Australia's gripping tied
semi-final against South Africa as leg-spin magician Shane Warne
grabbed four wickets in what turned out to be his last World Cup
match.


Australia had recovered after a disastrous start to the tourament
where they advanced to the Super Sixes without a point as they
had lost to fellow- qualifiers Pakistan and New Zealand in group
games.


2003: Johannesburg


Australia bt India by 125 runs


Opinions are still divided over India skipper Sourav Ganguly's
decision to put Australia in to bat after winning the toss at The
Wanderers with Ricky Ponting (140 not out) hijacking the game
with a gem of a knock.


The Australian captain received valuable support from Damien
Martyn (88 not out) to put the match beyond India's reach as his
team set a 360-run target.


Fast bowler Glenn McGrath rocked India with the prize wicket of
Sachin Tendulkar (four) in his opening spell. India seemed to be
chasing a mirage thereafter despite Virender Sehwag's 82.


McGrath finished with three wickets and fellow-paceman Brett Lee
with two as India were bowled out for 234.

