

President Rafael Correa has expelled the World Bank's
representative from Ecuador, accusing the institution of
attempting to extort him when he was economy minister in 2005, an
official said Thursday.


An official letter of Correa's decision to throw out World Bank
official Eduardo Somensatto of Brazil will be released by the
foreign ministry, said a senior economy ministry official who
requested anonymity.


The leftist president, in office since January, has charged that
the global development lender suspended a 100-million-dollar loan
for Ecuador in 2005 in retaliation for his reform of the
country's oil sector.


"We will act accordingly in this case, not only by expelling the
World Bank representative from the country but also by taking the
appropriate international legal measures, because we are no one's
colony," Correa, an economist by training, said April 21.


Foreign Minister Maria Fernanda Espinosa was expected to address
the issue, official sources told AFP.


The World Bank office spokeswoman in Quito, Paola Vallejo,
declined to comment on the row, as did officials at the World
Bank's Washington headquarters, even though the foreign ministry
said it notified them both.


Somensatto was outside Quito when the notice was delivered, the
foreign ministry said.


Correa had announced on three occasions since April 15 that
Somensatto would soon be expelled in reprisal for the freezing of
a 10-million-dollar World Bank credit while Correa was economy
minister, in 2005, under president Alfredo Palacio.


Correa said the bank froze the credit to punish him for reforming
the oil industry, and accused the multilateral lender of
"extortion."


Correa's reform was designed to create an oil fund to buy back
the Ecuador's sovereign foreign debt.


"When I became minister and turned out not to be a messenger boy
for the World Bank, they held the check," Correa said.


"They messed us around for three months, and when I went to
Washington, they told me that they did it because we reformed our
law. That is, they punished a sovereign country for rewriting its
own law," he said.


"Ecuador is a sovereign country and we will not stand for
extortion from this international bureaucracy," said Correa.


Correa favors overturning the neoliberal economic policies of his
predecessors and strengthening the role of the state in several
sectors of the economy.

