

Australia are the favourites to win another World Cup title on
Saturday.


But here, AFP Sports lists eleven reasons - some serious, some
not - why Sri Lanka must defeat the Aussies in the final, a feat
they achieved 11 years ago in cricket's showpiece event:


- To justify the International Cricket Council's insistence on
having a 51-match, 47-day marathon when they could have chosen
the easier option - hand the trophy to Australia at the start
itself.


- To provide a grand finale to the least-watched cricket World
Cup in history. TV viewership dropped nearly 40 percent compared
to the 2003 edition, according to industry estimates.


- To delight the rest of the cricket world and billions of
passionate fans from Kingston to Karachi and Manchester to Mumbai
who support their own teams or anyone that plays against
Australia.


- To justify pre-World Cup boasts by most rivals, including
minnows Ireland, that Australia were a beatable side. They have
not only won all their 10 matches so far, but Matthew Hayden
scored more runs (621) and Glenn McGrath claimed more wickets
(25) than anyone else in the competition.


- To prove that Australia's five consecutive losses against
England and New Zealand before the World Cup were not a flash in
the pan. Even though the champions were resting star players like
captain Ricky Ponting and Adam Gilchrist.


- To prevent cricket from becoming a yawn. After all, even the
diehard get tired of watching one team win all the time.
Australia have not lost a World Cup match since May, 1999 and now
chase their third consecutive title.


- To justify the age-old saying that cricket, especially the
limited-overs variety, is an unpredictable sport. There is
nothing more predictable in the game than an Australian win.


- To bring joy, solace and peace to their strife-torn nation. The
Tamil Tiger rebels called a truce for the duration of Tuesday's
semi-final against New Zealand so that everyone could follow the
match on television. It may happen again on Saturday.


- Sri Lanka will be popular winners. Australians are unpopular,
rude, arrogant. So says Indian legend Sunil Gavaskar, the ICC's
pointman for all cricket-related matters.


- Do it for Bob. Slain Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer spent a
lifetime, first as England batsman and then as South Africa's
coach, plotting Australia's downfall without any success. His
widow, Gill, wanted South Africa to win the semi-final. The
grief-stricken lady deserves a better deal.


- Finally, Sri Lanka must win it for themselves. They have played
outstanding cricket and deserve to be the final - as the second-
best team in the tournament.

