

Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp believes Liverpool's gruelling
European schedule will wreck their hopes of finishing third in
the Premiership.


Liverpool travel to Fratton Park on Saturday for their 54th game
of the season in five different competitions, and Rafael Benitez
is likely to rest several first-team regulars ahead of Tuesday's
Champions League semi-final second leg with Chelsea at Anfield.


Redknapp, who ran a personal check on Liverpool in Wednesday's
1-0 first leg defeat, said: "Between Champions League games is a
good time to play Liverpool. I would be a liar if I said anything
other than that.


"They are looking to finish third, above Arsenal and have such a
strong squad that whatever side they decide to put out against us
is going to be very hard.


"They have got Dirk Kuyt, Craig Bellamy, Robbie Fowler and Peter
Crouch to chose from up front. Rafa Benitez has got choices all
over the pitch.


"He can make six or seven changes and still put out a very strong
team. They have got that strength in depth all the big four teams
Manchester United, Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool have."


Redknapp believes Liverpool, chasing a sixth European Cup, could
pay the price for failing to score at Stamford Bridge.


He added: "It was a close game but nobody expected anything else.
It was never going to be as open as the Manchester United, AC
Milan game from the previous night.


"Liverpool would have liked an away goal and Chelsea will be the
happier team after the first leg.


"Benitez's team have shown before they are capable of overturning
leads in Europe and it will be another tight game next week."


Redknapp hopes Liverpool striker Peter Crouch does not return to
haunt his former boss. Redknapp raised more than 12 million
pounds selling the England international at Portsmouth and
Southampton.


He added: "I like Crouchy. I sold him when I was at Portsmouth
first time round. Aston Villa paid five million for him and that
allowed me to build a team to win the Championship.


"At Southampton he did a great job for me and nearly scored the
goals to keep us in the Premiership. Liverpool came in and
offered big money and there was no way I could deny him joining a
team like that.


"He gets a bit of stick because he looks a little bit
uncomfortable but he is always going to score goals. He is a big
threat in the air because of his height and my defenders will
have their work cut out keeping him quiet."


Portsmouth go into the game one point and one place outside the
UEFA Cup places as they look to secure a passport to Europe for
the first time in their 109-year history.


The south coast side this week announced plans to build a new
36,000-seat stadium next to Portsmouth's Historic Dockyard.


Defender Sol Campbell says the move from Fratton Park will help
Redknapp's side compete with the bigger clubs like Liverpool.


Former Arsenal centre back Campbell said: "It is going to be a
big jump from Fratton Park but it is a jump worth making."

