

Oil and gas-rich Qatar which is poor in archaeological sites is
vying to create a cultural scene through building museums and
acquiring precious masterpieces.


"We have an immense collection of pieces coming from several
countries, collected over 15 years, which will be displayed in a
series of museums, the first of which should be inaugurated by
the end of 2007 or early 2008," said Sabiha al-Khemir, the
director of Qatar's Museum of Islamic Art.


Among the diverse pieces are a bronze hind whose body is
decorated with arabesque palm leaves, which was to adorn the
fountain of a 10th-century Andalusian palace.


Other items include a 12th century woman-bird on glossed ceramics
from Syria, a white jade amulet from Moghul India, and a poem's
calligraphy on ceramics from Iran dating back to the 13th
century.


The museum rising on Doha's waterfront was designed by Chinese-
born American architect I.M. Pei, best know for designing the
glass pyramid at the Louvre in Paris.


Its interiors, and the display, will be handled by the French
architect Jean- Michel Wilmotte, who specialises in museums,
Khemir added.


The small Gulf state, which has been dominated by the Al-Thani
family since the mid-1800s, has a policy of steadily acquiring
works of art, turning the desert emirate into a major purchaser
worldwide.


Back in 2003, a member of the Qatari ruling family, Sheikh Saud
al-Thani, was identified as the art world's biggest spender by
the New York-based ARTnews magazine.


He spent in a few years many hundreds of millions of dollars on
antiques, Islamic art, photography, Impressionists and Old
Masters paintings, furniture, and jewellery, it said.


Sheikh Saud, a cousin of Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani,
reportedly spent over 15 million pounds sterling (29.9 million
dollars) in one week in 2005 buying works of art in London.


According to Western reports, Sheikh Saud has since fallen from
favour with the ruling family, but his acquisitions, done on
behalf of the emir, are set to occupy the forefront in a series
of museums planned to be built in Doha.


"Forty-two masterpieces that will be displayed in the halls of
the future Museum of Islamic Art were put on show for the first
time last June in the Louvre," Khemir said.


Besides the Islamic art museum other cultural projects will
include at least four other museums and a national library,
entrusted to other world-renowned architects like the Spaniard
Santiago Calatrava and the Japanese Arata Isozaki, Khemir said.


The projects include museums for photography, orientalist works,
as well as a Pharaonic museum.


Khemir rejects a suggestion that Qatar is launching a war for
cultural supremacy against other Gulf states. "All our projects
date back to more than five years, that is, well before anyone in
the region showed interest in museums," she said.


But there does appear a race among at least few Gulf states.


Three members of the United Arab Emirates -- Abu Dhabi, Dubai and
Sharjah -- as well as the Saudi Red Sea city of Jeddah, have all
got cultural projects at least in the planning stage.


Abu Dhabi, the rich capital of the seven-member UAE, has
kickstarted plans to build four museums, including a Guggenheim,
and another which will carry the Louvre brand name.


Also in Qatar, another member of the royal family boasts a rich
collection of works of art for which he has built his own private
museum which can be visited for free.


On the outskirts of Doha, Sheikh Faisal bin Qassim al-Thani put
his private collection of Islamic art on display in a 20,000
-square-metre (215,000 sq feet) museum.


Among masterpieces on display are an engraved Moghul helmet,
another encrusted with gold from Safavid Iran, as well as an
Ottoman powder rifle encrusted with ivory and silver -- all
dating back to the 15th and 16th centuries.


But Sheikh Faisal boasts that this museum hosts less than 50
percent of his collection. For that reason, he has built a
neighbouring museum, with a basement dedicated for the most
precious objects.


The newer museum is already home to dozens of dhows, the
traditional wooden vessels prized by Gulf natives.


"Since I was a kid, I collected stamps, coins and pictures,"
Sheikh Faisal said, speaking of his passion for collecting art
objects, which now also includes a collection of ancient
automobiles, notably big American cars.

