

Champions League qualification and the relegation dogfight will
dominate the French league programme this weekend following
Lyon's championship triumph a week ago.


Gerard Houllier's dominant side finally ended weeks of stumbling
when second- placed Toulouse slipped up in a 3-2 away defeat to
Rennes last Saturday, sealing a record-breaking sixth consecutive
league title for Lyon.


With the second and third placed finishers also qualifying for
Europe's premier club competition, Toulouse will be keen to get
their camapaign back on track.


A UEFA Cup spot - or maybe two - is also up for grabs, while at
the other end of the table things are getting desperate for
Troyes, Nantes and Sedan.


Paris St Germain will visit Toulouse hoping to build on their
four-match unbeaten run, in which they claimed 10 points from a
possible 12, which has moved them clear of the drop zone.


That burst of form not only seems to have secured former Lyon and
Rangers boss Paul Le Guen's short-term future, but the unwelcome
prospect of relegation appears to have been pushed firmly aside.


With five games to go, PSG's six-point lead over the relegation
zone's bottom three should prove to be enough, which means a win
against fourth-placed Toulouse is not vital.


Toulouse, though, are desperate for the three points as they
battle with Lens, Bordeaux, Marseille, Rennes and Sochaux for the
two remaining Champions League berths.


Toulouse were in second place until their setback at Rennes
dropped them below both Lens and Bordeaux. The latter pair face
each other on Sunday, with at least one certain to drop points,
and probably their place in the top three.


The six teams directly behind Lyon are separated by just five
points and the next six teams are within another five points,
making the race for Europe a thrilling affair that could involve
up to a dozen teams.


Any team that manages to take at least 10 points from their
remaining five matches can almost certainly expect to feature in
the European picture.


But one such team maybe expecting more than just UEFA Cup
qualification is Marseille.


They host Sochaux on Sunday in a dress rehearsal for next month's
Cup final between the pair.


With Frank Ribery back in the side, Marseille have shown a marked
improvement and as they sit just a single win behind Bordeaux in
third, they will feel that the Champions League is a distinct
possibility.


A victory over Sochaux, who sit seventh, a point and two places
below the Mediterraneans, would go some way to eliminating one of
their rivals for European football.


That is something that has not been lost on Marseille forward
Mikael Pagis.


"I think the winner of this match will take a psychological
advantage, not just for the Cup final but also in the league," he
said.


But it is not just at the top where teams are desperate. Nantes,
with Fabian Barthez in goal, host Rennes and know that anything
less than three points will render their hopes of extending their
43 consecutive season stay in the French top flight almost
negligible.


The other two sides in the bottom three, Troyes and Sedan, go
head to head with the loser almost certain to be condemned to
relegation.


Meanwhile, Lyon will get to celebrate their sixth title in a row
in front of their own fans as they host Le Mans.


Fixtures


Saturday


Lille v AS Nancy, Lorient v St Etienne, Lyon v Le Mans, Nantes v
Rennes, Nice v Auxerre, Toulouse v PSG, Troyes v Sedan,
Valenciennes v Monaco


Sunday


Bordeaux v Lens, Marseille v Sochaux

