

With Inter Milan having clinched the Italian league title last
Sunday, the Rome derby takes centre stage in Serie A this weekend
as second-placed Roma take on fierce rivals Lazio.


Roma are 11 points clear of third-placed Lazio and virtually
assured of direct entry into next season's Champions League,
while their neighbours are looking good for a top-four finish and
a place in the third qualifying round of Europe's premier club
competition.


Lazio are on 57 points, one ahead of AC Milan and seven clear of
fifth-placed Empoli, with five games to go.


Lazio won 3-0 in the first capital derby of the season, and Roma
defender Christian Panucci is gunning for revenge.


"We went into the match thinking we were superior and that we
would win easily, but this time we won't be so complacent," said
the 34-year-old former Italy international.


"Lazio were really fired up and they didn't allow us to play, and
we became frustrated. That won't happen again on Sunday, we have
learned from that experience.


"We want to win to make sure of second place, and because it's
the derby."


Roma captain Francesco Totti, Serie A's leading scorer with 21
goals, has a back injury and faces a race against the clock to be
fit in time for Sunday's match.


"If he doesn't make it, the rest of us will have to work twice as
hard," Panucci said.


Security at Rome's Olympic stadium, where a crowd of around
65,000 is expected, will be tight given the history of violence
between Roma and Lazio fans.


AC Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti is likely to rotate his squad for
Saturday's trip to Torino with one eye fixed firmly on their
crunch Champions League semi-final, second leg against Manchester
United the following Wednesday.


United won Tuesday's first leg at Old Trafford 3-2, but with two
precious away goals Milan will fancy their chances of reaching
the Athens final.


Milan are in fourth place on 56 points and still have some work
to do if they are to claim a spot in the third qualifying round
of next season's Champions League.


Down at the basement, Ascoli and Messina look set for the second
division while above them eight sides are battling to stay up.


Even Livorno in 11th place are embroiled in the relegation
dogfight, with the Tuscan club just five points clear of the drop
zone.


Inter host Empoli in Sunday's late match at the San Siro which is
likely to turn into a Scudetto celebration as the champions play
in front of their home fans for the first time after securing the
championship at Siena last week.


Fixtures (all 1300 GMT unless stated):


Saturday


Torino v AC Milan (1600 GMT), Fiorentina v Chievo (1830 GMT)


Sunday


Ascoli v Reggina, Inter Milan v Empoli (1830 GMT), Livorno v
Palermo, Messina v Atalanta, Parma v Cagliari, Roma v Lazio,
Siena v Sampdoria, Udinese v Catania

