

Financiers backing Macau's casino-led economic boom are warning
of dark clouds ahead unless steps are taken to end a labour
crisis that has forced wages to double in three years.


Competition to attract workers in the tiny southern Chinese
territory is so intense that casinos have been forced to raise
their wages to near-unsustainable levels in a bid to attract
skilled croupiers and card-dealers, executives warn.


The problem has already forced a number of older casinos to close
down gaming tables after their staff were poached by a rash of
new establishments that have opened in recent years.


But a proposal by the Beijing-backed government to alleviate the
problem by relaxing immigration rules and allowing foreign
workers in has been opposed by the city's powerful unions and
civil service.


They are already planning to hold what is likely to be Macau's
biggest ever street demonstration on May Day to protest the
proposal, and officials fear that with civil servants on the
unions' side, a punishing strike could follow.


"It's a political hot potato," said Jorge Godinho, a law
professor at the University of Macau.


"The government must strike a balance between the needs of
foreign investors and the concerns of the local population. The
government is under pressure and it is mounting by the day,"
Godinho told a conference of foreign investors and local
businessmen.


The problem has been brought about by Macau's sudden economic
surge following the deregulation of its gaming laws in 2001.


The move, which came soon after sovereignty of the former
Portuguese enclave reverted to Chinese rule in 1999, brought in a
flood of overseas -- mostly American -- capital.


So far, some 25 billion US dollars have been committed to the
city, resulting in the development of dozens of American-styled
casino-hotels that have regenerated the city's century-old gaming
industry and boosted local coffers.


That coincided with a relaxation of travel restrictions on
mainland Chinese that brought in a huge wave of tourists -- a
record 19 million last year alone.


The combined effect has been to boost economic growth by more
than 20 percent per year for the past two years.


It has also seen Macau's gambling earnings surpass those of the
casinos on Las Vegas' famous strip.


The crunch has come in the labour market: some 100,000 new jobs
are expected to be created in a city with a workforce of only
250,000 and unemployment at just 3 percent.


"It's an important issue from the financing point of view because
rising wages makes it hard for new developments to accurately
project their costs and pricing," said Jonathan Skadden, partner
at law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher and Flom, which has
helped bring investors into some of the giant new casinos and
hotels.


Government officials say they are confident that they can find a
way around the problem, but financiers say it will take time.


"If your wages had doubled in three years and were looking likely
to rise again, would you be wanting the government to do anything
about it?" asked Roger Suyama, president director of investment
bank Merrill Lynch's Indonesian operations and a keen observer of
the gaming industry.


"I think it will be dealt with, but it won't happen quickly."

