

Legendary former Hollywood lobbyist and presidential aide Jack
Valenti has died, the Motion Picture Association of America
(MPAA) said in a statement on Thursday.


Valenti, 85, died in Washington, the statement said, a day after
checking out of a hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, where he had
been hospitalized last month for treatment following a stroke,
according to reports.


The MPAA statement did not give details on Valenti's cause of
death.


The former World War II bomber pilot was best known for four
decades spent defending the interests of Hollywood's move system,
playing a leading role in the formation of copyright protection
and antipiracy laws.


He was also credited with establishing a ratings systems for US
films that replaced a much-reviled censorship board.


"Jack Valenti was a giant who loomed large over two of the
world's most glittering stages -- Washington and Hollywood," MPAA
chairman and CEO Dan Glickman said in a statement.


"The entire MPAA community is deeply saddened by the news that we
have lost Jack. Our thoughts and prayers are with Mary Margaret,
with their three children ... and with the rest of the Valenti
family."


The Harvard-educated Texan took over the MPAA leadership in 1966
and began vociferously fighting for the studios' rights both at
home and abroad.


But even before his appointment to the body that lobbies
lawmakers and leaders in Washington as well as foreign
governments to ensure that Hollywood's multi- billion dollar
revenues are not eroded, Valenti was no stranger to politics or
to celebrity.


He first rose to prominence in November 1963 when he became a
witness to the assassination of US president John F. Kennedy in
Dallas, Texas.


As the head of a political consultancy and advertising agency in
Houston, Texas, Valenti had been hired to handle publicity for
the electoral campaign trip by Kennedy and vice president Lyndon
B. Johnson to Texas.


After Kennedy was shot, he accompanied the new president Johnson
and Kennedy's body back to Washington aboard Air Force One after
Johnson asked him to join his administration as a special
assistant at the White House.


"Like the nation, my life changed that day," Valenti once
recalled in an interview.


The straight-spoken but silver-tongued Valenti stepped down from
that post in May 1966 to become the third head of the MPAA,
founded in 1922.


In 1968, he instituted the voluntary movie rating system, under
which US films are classified by certain letters depending on the
general suitability of their content, to replace an outdated
censorship body.


MPAA members include the top Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures
Entertainment, Warner Bros, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios,
Universal Studios Inc, Walt Disney Co. and 20th Century Fox.

