

Taiwanese media Friday condemned the government's decision to
reject China's offer to include Taipei in the Olympic torch relay
route, arguing that politics and sport do not mix.


Beijing Games organisers announced Thursday that the flame would
visit the island after sweeping through the cities of Pyongyang
and Ho Chi Minh, before moving on to Hong Kong and Macau.


But Taipei deemed the plan unacceptable, saying the route
arrangement was aimed at belittling the island.


They had demanded that the torch must arrive and leave the island
via a third country, probably Hong Kong or Macau, to highlight
Taiwan's independence.


"The Beijing authorities attempt to turn the relay into a
domestic route and therefore dwarf our status. This is absolutely
unacceptable," Tsai Chen-wei, chairman of Taiwan's Olympic
Committee, told a press conference Thursday.


But local media disagreed, saying that the Olympics torch relay
would boost the island's international exposure.


"We cannot say that (Beijing) failed to consider Taiwan's
position since the torch would arrive from a third country,
Vietnam, to Taiwan before going to Hong Kong," the United Daily
News said in a commentary Friday.


"The government says time and again that it wants to return to
the international arena but now is it going to resort to
boycotting the Olympics to highlight Taiwan's sovereignty? Isn't
the government going too far in driving away the torch and
denying itself in order to manipulate the elections?"


The newspaper was referring to the legislative elections in
December and the presidential vote in March 2008.


"Beijing has highly politicised the Olympics and considered it a
milestone for China's 'peaceful rise' so it is understandable
that the ruling party is sensitive to this," the Taipei-based
Apple Daily said in an editorial.


However, the paper stressed that the Olympic torch signified
sport's ability to conquer political boundaries and Taiwan should
not boycott the event for such reasons.


"As Taiwan is so close to China, it inevitably cannot stay away
from China's influence. If Taiwan rejects everything (related to
China), there won't be many things left to be done," it said.


China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since they split in
1949 at the end of a civil war but Beijing maintains the island
is part of its territory awaiting reunification.


Taipei last hosted a leg of the torch relay in the 1964 Tokyo
Olympic Games.


The authorities here had demanded that the island be included on
the international route rather than as part of China's domestic
relay which they feel would imply the island was part of China,
as Beijing insists.

