

Rangers can secure runners-up spot in the Scottish Premier League
on Saturday but Ally McCoist has warned them to beware a backlash
from Hibernian.


The Easter Road team lost 1-0 to Dunfermline in the semi-final of
the Scottish Cup on Tuesday.


On Saturday Hibs play host to a Rangers side who have not been
defeated since Walter Smith replaced Frenchman Paul Le Guen as
manager in January, with McCoist as his assistant.


And a Rangers victory would clinch second place behind champions
Celtic and, more importantly, qualification for next season's
Champions League.


However, McCoist believes it will not be easy to secure the win
against a Hibs side, managed by former Celt John Collins,
desperate to bounce back from their Scottish Cup heartache.


He said: "We're all raring to go this weekend as we have had some
great results since we took over.


"Hibs may be feeling a bit low after they were knocked out of the
Cup by Dunfermline the other night.


"But playing at home to Rangers in their next game gives them the
perfect opportunity to bounce back. John Collins will definitely
have them fired up for it.


"They are a good side that plays nice football. They have also
already won the Scottish League Cup so we know it's going to be
tough."


Aberdeen, the only side with an outside chance of catching
Rangers, must win at home to Kilmarnock on Saturday.


However, having fallen 10 points behind the Gers with only four
games to play, a more realistic target for the Dons is to finish
third to qualify for next season's UEFA Cup.


Fourth placed Hearts are only four points behind Aberdeen and
with the two UEFA Cup hopefuls due to face each other a week on
Sunday at Tynecastle, this weekend's games could be crucial.


On Sunday Hearts will be aiming to upset Celtic's title party
when they take them on at Parkhead.


Gordon Strachan's side clinched their second consecutive SPL
title when they won 2-1 at Kilmarnock last Sunday and will be
presented with the trophy after playing Hearts.


It will be an emotional day for Celtic captain Neil Lennon, who
announced this week he would be leaving the club after the
Scottish Cup Final on May 26.


He is sure to get a fantastic reception from the Parkhead club's
support, as is John Kennedy.


The 23-year-old defender made his first team return against
Kilmarnock on Sunday, after three years out with a serious knee
injury, and on Thursday signed a new three year contract.


In the remaining SPL games on Saturday Dundee United are at home
to Inverness Caledonian Thistle while Motherwell welcome Falkirk
to Fir Park.


On Monday night St Mirren play host to Dunfermline in a match
which will go a long way to deciding the relegation issue.


The Paisley side have a four point advantage but the Pars will be
boosted with their Scottish Cup semi-final win against Hibs and
will aim to make sure they are still an SPL side when they face
Celtic in the final.


It is the final round of fixtures in the First Division on
Saturday and either Gretna or St Johnstone will be celebrating
promotion to the SPL.


Gretna looked to be strolling towards the SPL a few weeks ago but
have failed to win in their last four games.


To secure promotion they must now win away to bottom of the table
Ross County, who need a win to avoid relegation.


St Johnstone, meanwhile, are only one point behind and will look
to win away to Hamilton to take advantage of any Gretna slip.


Fixtures (1400 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Aberdeen v Kilmarnock, Dundee United v Inverness Caledonian
Thistle, Hibernian v Rangers, Motherwell v Falkirk.


Sunday


Celtic v Hearts (1300).


Monday


St Mirren v Dunfermline (1845).

