

China CITIC Bank, the mainland's seventh largest bank, traded
above its listing price on its debut here Friday but lagged
considerably on the stock's Shanghai performance, dealers said.


They said the strong showing on the mainland came on the back of
lower demand in Hong Kong and some valuation concerns despite the
fact that the larger part of the share offer was made here.


Reports of unease at recent unprecedented gains in the Chinese
stock markets from the China's National Social Security Fund, a
major institutional investor may also have hit sentiment, they
added.


China CITIC Bank closed the morning session at 6.81 Hong Kong
dollars (87 US cents), up 16.2 percent from the Initial Public
Offer (IPO) price of 5.86 dollars. It opened at 7.08 dollars, up
20.8 percent and in line with market forecasts.


The main Hang Seng Index was down some 0.76 percent amid worries
that China may announce further economic-tightening measures
during the long Labor Day holiday next week, dealers said.


CITIC Bank listed simultaneously in Hong Kong and Shanghai after
raising about 5.4 billion dollars in what is the world's largest
IPO so far this year.


At the listing ceremony in Hong Kong, CITIC Bank chairman Kong
Dan did not comment on whether he was satisified with the opening
price but only said he hoped that the market will "treat us
rationally."


When asked whether possible credit-tightening measures by Beijing
would affect the bank's performance, Kong was optimistic that any
new policies would have a positive impact on the Chinese economy
and the company.


"I believe that any new monetary policies would have a positive
impact on us even if it means it might be an interest rate hike,"
he told reporters.


The company said the retail tranche of its Hong Kong offering was
229 times oversubscribed while the international tranche was
"very significantly oversubscribed".


In Shanghai, the bank's A-shares closed the morning session at
11.58 yuan (1.5 US dollars), nearly double the offer price of 5.8
yuan and well above expectations for a range of 6.50 to 8.0 yuan.
The shares opened at 9.21 yuan.


The lender sold 2.302 billion A-shares in Shanghai at 5.8 yuan
per share and 4.885 billion H-shares in Hong Kong at 5.86 Hong
Kong dollars each.


Analysts described the Hong Kong share price as "reasonable" but
the performance in China was above their expectations.


"You can't use a rational mind to analyse the (Shanghai)
performance. There is a lot of money floating around in China but
not enough stocks to buy. So it's bound to push up the price,"
said DBS Vickers sales director Peter Lai.


Analysts were unsure if the A-share performance could be
sustainable as many investors tend to push up the prices in China
for quick profit, they said, while H-share prices should remain
at around 7.0 dollars in the first week.


"The A-shares are overvalued. Many people on the mainland like to
buy banking stocks because they believe they are high-quality
shares," said Jackson Wong, investment manager at Tanrich
Securities.


He said Hong Kong investors are cautious about possible new
measures on the mainland and that would keep stocks within the
current range.


However, Paul Lee, senior analyst at Tai Fook Securities, said
the bank's allure has been diminished somewhat as it lacks of
solid earnings track record like its larger mainland peers,
including Bank of China.


"In general, enthusiasm for Chinese banks and other financials by
foreign investors is not as strong as before because their
valuation is considered high relative to international
standards," he said.

