

World oil prices slid Thursday on signs that Iran and the
European Union have made progress in nuclear talks, traders said.


But losses were limited by market concerns over weak US gasoline
reserves heading into the peak-demand season for motor fuel, when
the driving season starts next month in the United States.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, shed 78 cents to close at 65.06 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
fell 92 cents to 67.65 dollars a barrel.


"Crude futures were a little lower today in both London and New
York, easing off after Iran's chief negotiator hinted that some
common ground has been found between the EU and Iran," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


"The two parties are due to meet again in two weeks and there
were suggestions that the differences between them are narrowing
and this reduced some of the geopolitical risk premium on oil
prices."


Iran is the world's fourth-largest oil exporter and traders fear
Western pressure over its nuclear program could prompt the
Islamic republic to cut crude exports in retaliation.


Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani said Thursday that talks with EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana had made progress towards a
"united view" on ending the crisis over Tehran's refusal to halt
uranium enrichment.


"I think in some areas we are approaching a united view and that
is to say the best approach is to have the issue settled through
negotiation," Larijani said after a second day of talks with
Solana in the Turkish capital Ankara.


BMO Capital Markets analyst Bart Melek said: "I suppose that some
of the geopolitical risk premium has been knocked out."


But he added: "I suspect that the market has run a little bit too
high and that there has been some profit-taking. I don't think
that fundamentally things have changed with Iran."


Davies also sounded a cautious note.


"We would argue that we have seen this sort of situation time and
time again and that it remains unlikely that Iran will concede to
the West's demands and give up nuclear enrichment," he warned.


The talks were the first face-to-face meetings between Larijani
and Solana since the UN Security Council imposed a second round
of limited sanctions on Iran in March to punish its continuing
enrichment work.


Western nations fear that Iran is trying to make a nuclear
weapon. But Iran contends that its nuclear program is for
peaceful energy production.


Meanwhile, traders said oil prices were underpinned by weak US
gasoline stocks ahead of the US driving season, which starts in
four weeks.


The US Department of Energy had said Wednesday that motor fuel
reserves sank by 2.8 million barrels in the week ending April 20.


That marked the 11th consecutive weekly drop for gasoline
inventories and compared with market expectations for a lighter
fall of just 500,000 barrels.


"If gasoline prices go higher, we could see bottlenecks in the
system and much higher prices," Melek said.

