

South Korea's financial regulator announced Friday it would let
life insurance companies list shares on the main stock market as
part of efforts to upgrade the industry.


"The listing of life insurers is expected to help enhance their
transparency and give them a means of expanding capital by
selling shares," the Financial Supervisory Commission (FSC) said
in a statement.


Industry leader Samsung Life Insurance and third-ranked Kyobo
Life Insurance have pushed for initial public offerings (IPOs)
since 1989 but hit a snag over how they would distribute the
proceeds to policyholders, Yonhap news agency said.


To break the deadlock, the government launched an advisory
committee under the Korea Exchange in February that submitted
revised rules on stock listing.


Among other provisions, these stipulate that policyholders do not
deserve part of the gains from the IPOs because they are not
shareholders.


The rules are opposed by some policyholders and civic groups who
believe they are entitled to some of the gains.


The Korea Life Insurance Association, which represents 22
companies, announced this month that they would donate 1.5
trillion won (1.6 billion dollars) over the next 20 years to
policyholders.


Immediately after the approval, however, opponents filed a
complaint with prosecutors against FSC officials on charges of
malfeasance.


Companies which want to go public must retain an internal reserve
ratio of 25 percent and must have generated a profit in the
previous fiscal year.


Five firms qualify and Kyobo Life Insurance is expected to be the
first to list later this year, Yonhap said.


Samsung Life Insurance has not unveiled a listing plan but has
called for local life insurers to go public so they can emerge as
global players.


"IPOs will serve as an opportunity to upgrade South Korea's
insurance market by one notch," Kim Yong-hwan from the FSC told
reporters. He dismissed the complaint by policyholders, saying
all steps have been taken to gather opinions on the revised
rules.


As of the end of 2006, the total assets of the 22 life insurers
came to 265.8 trillion won.

