

Mali's voters will on Sunday elect their next president from
eight hopefuls, with the incumbent viewed as the favourite to win
in a country that has made great strides in democracy since 1991.


Amadou Toumani Toure is standing for another five-year term as an
independent candidate, but is backed by two large coalitions and
a myriad of smaller parties.


The former general led the overthrow of dictator Moussa Traore in
1991, and installed a multi-party system before handing over
power to civilians. After retiring from the army, he stood for
and won the 2002 presidential elections.


Toure's main rival on Sunday is key opposition figure Ibrahim
Boubacar Keita, a former prime minister and head of the national
assembly.


Keita, who came third in the first round of the 2002 polls, is
part of a coalition that is fielding three other candidates in
Sunday's vote.


The four men have signed an electoral pact for the second round,
but many observers believe this is risky given the high chance
Toure will win on Sunday.


"We don't have a polling institute, but the president appears to
be the 'super- favourite' given his exposure in the media and his
numerous trips in the interior of the country," said Mamadou
Samake, professor of political sociology at the University of
Bamako.


The main opposition candidates risk being damaged by their
participation in the "political consensus" that has governed Mali
for the past five years, and as such have recently been attacking
Toure's economic record.


Landlocked Mali has been hit by the crisis in Ivory Coast, key
for accessing goods to and from the coast, but also by repeated
droughts and a locust invasion that had devastating consequences
for a country where 70 percent of people live in rural areas.


In response, Toure -- who has a better funded campaign than his
rivals -- has been touring Mali to highlight the numerous
agriculture, infrastructure, health and work projects that he has
initiated.


He also recently received the support of former Tuareg rebels,
who signed a peace agreement with the government following
clashes in May 2006.


In addition, the president has excellent relations with countries
such as France, Libya and the United States. Washington recently
stepped-up its cooperation with Mali on health, education and its
so-called "war on terror".


"This is someone who is attractive because of his simplicity. His
government has known no financial scandal, no opposition
politicians have been arrested, the press is free," a foreign
diplomat said.


The main uncertainty in Sunday's election is how many of the
former French colony's 6.8 million potential voters will take
part -- in the last polls in 2002 and 1997, turnout was less than
25 percent.


According to the territorial administration ministry, by Tuesday
just 57.11 percent of the electorate had withdrawn their voting
cards, which are also valid for July's legislative polls.


More than 1,000 international observers are expected to attend
Sunday's vote, the electoral commission said.

