

After years of agonizing over his gender identity, a senior Los
Angeles Times journalist announced in a column Thursday that he
is a transsexual.


Mike Penner, who has worked in the Times sports department for 23
years, said he is taking on a new identity as a woman and readers
will now see his stories under the byline Christine Daniels.


"Everyone who knows me and my work will be transitioning as
well," Penner said. "That will take time. And that's all right.
To borrow a piece of well-worn sports parlance, we will take it
one day at a time."


Penner said for the past 40 years he has been wrestling with his
feelings and that he felt very strongly that he had to do this
for himself.


"I gave it a good fight," the 49-year-old Penner said. "I went
more than 40 hard rounds with it. Eventually though you realize
you are only fighting yourself and your happiness and your mental
health -- a no win situation anyway you look at it."


In his more than two decades at the paper, Penner has been a
National Football League columnist, Olympic Games writer and
Major League Baseball beat reporter. He currently writes a Page 2
sports column.


He began coming out as a transsexual by revealling his intentions
to his barber and 30-and-over football club teammates.


He told sports editor Randy Harvey during a face-to-face meeting
a couple months ago.


"When I told my boss Randy Harvey, he leaned back in his chair,
looked through his office window to scan the newsroom and mused,
'Well, no one can ever say we don't have diversity on this
staff'."


Harvey said Thursday he admires Penner's courage in coming out
publicly. Penner did not say whether he would be having surgery.


"Mike Penner has been an exemplary contributor to the Los Angeles
Times sports pages and today's column is no exception," Harvey
said. "The decision to go public cannot have been an easy one.


"While we do not make a habit of commenting on the personal and
private lives of our journalists, we do look forward to
continuing our relationship into the future."


Penner said everyone's support has put his mind at ease and that
people have been much more understanding that he anticipated.


"To my amazement, friends and colleagues almost universally have
been supportive and encouraging, often breaking the tension with
good-natured doses of humour."


Penner even poked a little fun at himself.


"My days of playing in men's over-30 recreational soccer leagues
could be numbered," he said.


The Los Angeles Times is the fourth-biggest paper in the United
States behind USA Today, The Wall Street Journal and The New York
Times.

