

Eight Democrats vying for the White House were united Thursday in
condemning President George W. Bush's Iraq policy, at a
presidential campaign debate more notable for the candidates'
easy consensus than disagreement.


In the first televised debate of the 2008 campaign, more than 18
months before the November 4, 2008 election, Democrats were
strongly critical of the Bush administration for continuing to
funnel thousands of US troops and billions of dollars into what
they see as a faltering Iraq war effort.


"The American people have said, Republicans and Democrats, that
it's time to end this war," said top-tier candidate Senator
Barack Obama, who aspires to become the country's first African-
American president.


Obama criticized the "disastrous conditions that we've seen on
the ground in Iraq."


Equally emphatic was Senator Joseph Biden, who condemned Bush's
"fundamentally flawed policy."


"The real question," said Biden, "is are we going to be able to
leave Iraq, get our troops out, and leave behind something other
than chaos?"


The candidates pressed the case for a dramatic policy change in
Iraq, armed with poll results showing a majority of Americans
backing the Democratic push for a troop pullout.


Thursday's debate also was seen as a key step for each candidate
in helping raise funds and attract staff, in what is becoming the
longest and most expensive campaign for the US presidency in
history.


And the event was viewed as a golden opportunity for lesser-known
candidates such as senators Biden and Christopher Dodd, New
Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, former senator Mike Gravel and
Representative Dennis Kucinich to boost their profiles.


All eight roundly criticized the president's handling of the
four-year-old Iraq war that continues to be plagued by sectarian
strife and a stubborn insurgency.


"This is not America's war to win or lose," Clinton said, adding
that the United States had gone as far as it could in bringing
democracy to Iraq without greater Iraqi input.


"We have given the Iraqi people the chance to have freedom, to
have their own country. It is up to them to decide whether or not
they're going to take that chance," the New York senator said.


South Carolina is a key state in the nominating process as it
will hold a primary election next year between the initial
contests in Iowa and New Hampshire and the "Super Tuesday" slate
of races on February 5.


Clinton headed into the 90-minute debate narrowly leading Obama,
according to the latest national polls, with former senator John
Edwards a bit further behind in third place.


The New York senator struck a humble note as she took
"responsibility for my vote" authorizing Bush to invade Iraq.


When asked about political missteps made over the years, she
professed not to "have enough time to tell you all the mistakes
I've made in the past many years."


For his part, Obama, Clinton's chief rival for the nomination,
seemed poised and self-possessed, except in a couple of testy
exchanges over Iran's nuclear program.


Representative Dennis Kucinich accused Obama of "setting the
stage" for an invasion of Iran by talking tough about Tehran's
nuclear program, while another contender, former Alaska governor
Mike Gravel, demanded to know whether Obama was planning to
"nuke" Iran.


"I'm not planning to nuke anybody right now, Mike, I promise,"
Obama answered, trying to restore the event's genial tone.


A survey by The Wall Street Journal and NBC News showed Clinton
with a 36-31 percent lead over Obama, down from a 12-point edge
she held a month ago.


Edwards, the party's 2004 vice presidential candidate, was within
striking distance at 20 percent.


The candidates squared off just hours after the Democratic-
controlled Congress adopted a timetable for the withdrawal of US
troops starting in October, despite Bush's certain veto of the
bill -- a milestone Clinton was quick to note.


"Congress has voted, as of today, to end this war," Clinton said.


"Now we can only hope that the president will listen."

