

Italy's top cyclists Ivan Basso is facing a possible date with
destiny when he appears at an Italian Olympic Committee (CONI)
hearing over suspected doping next week in Rome.


Considered the man most likely to succeed Tour de France icon
Lance Armstrong, Basso's future may now be decided by the result
of a DNA test in the coming weeks.


Basso is the reigning Giro d'Italia champion and, having joined
Armstrong's former team, Discovery Channel, late in 2006, he was
expected to be the main contender for the Tour de France yellow
jersey in July.


He is now on the ropes after CONI's decision to review evidence -
notably bags said to contain Basso's blood - from the Spanish
doping investigation 'Operation Puerto' and compare it with a DNA
sample from the 29-year-old star.


Discovery Channel, criticised in some quarters for hiring Basso
at the end of last season when he was still shrouded in
suspicion, have responded to CONI's decision by suspending their
star rider.


In doing so, the American outfit have followed in the footsteps
of Basso's former team, CSC, who suspended him prior to the 2006
Tour after he and dozens of other cyclists were initially
implicated in the Spanish doping affair which has dragged on for
nearly a year.


After much toing and froing between the Spanish justice system
and cycling's word ruling body the International Cycling Union
(UCI), heads are beginning to roll.


Recently, a DNA sample from 1997 Tour de France champion Jan
Ullrich was confirmed to match blood which had been attributed to
the now-retired German.


Ullrich, who has also proclaimed his innocence, was also
suspended from the Tour de France last year after he was named as
a client of Spanish doctor Eufemiano Fuentes, said to be the
mastermind of a doping network which police busted in Madrid when
they launched Operation Puerto last May.


Proof of Ullrich's involvement has sent shudders through the
sport, especially among those inclined to give suspected riders
the benefit of the doubt - including CONI.


CONI official Ettore Torri told La Gazzetta dello Sport in
midweek: "I will ask Basso to put himself forward for a DNA test,
and I hope he comes back with a positive response.


"If he does not, we will push forward all the same. The test
would be useful but not conclusive. I believe there are enough
ways to bring a conclusion to this."


Basso, who has protested his innocence and denies any links to
Fuentes, can prove his detractors wrong if and when he provides a
DNA sample.


According to Thursday's La Gazzetta dello Sport, CONI's anti-
doping authorities have received seven bags of blood believed to
belong to Basso, together with SMS messages allegedly sent from
Basso's mobile phone to Fuentes.


With Ullrich now gone, and Basso under a cloud, the use of DNA as
a tool in the fight against doping has become reality, albeit a
controversial one.


At a teams and riders meeting ahead of the Liege-Bastogne-Liege
one-day classic this Sunday, the Spanish riders leaned heavily on
the principle of 'innocence until proven guilty'.


The French have had to adhere to strict anti-doping laws since
the 1998 Festina drugs scandal - which was pivotal in the
creation of the World Anti Doping Agency - and they called for
transparency.


"There's no feeling of solidarity and we're not going forward
together," lamented French professional Christophe Moreau, who is
not implicated in Operation Puerto.


"I want to believe that the riders implicated in this affair are
innocent, but we have to act to remove the suspicion that still
lingers."

