

The euro posted a fresh record high Friday against the yen after
Japanese consumer inflation and industrial output slipped,
raising doubts over when Japan can next raise interest rates,
dealers said.


Investors were also cautious ahead of the release of the Bank of
Japan's economic outlook report and a decision on interest rates
later Friday, they added.


The euro posted a fresh record high of 162.74 yen, up from 162.57
in New York overnight.


The dollar firmed to 119.70 yen from 119.54 in New York.


The euro was flat at 1.3598 dollars, still just below an all-time
high.


Japan said Friday its core consumer price index (CPI) fell 0.3
percent in March from a year earlier, the second straight month
it has gone down.


"Although a weaker CPI was as expected, the weak industrial
output added selling pressure on the yen," said Saburo Matsumoto,
chief forex strategist at Sumitomo Trust Bank.


Japan's industrial output fell 0.6 percent in March, upsetting
market expectations of a gain of 0.9 percent after February's 0.7
percent increase.


Market players waited anxiously ahead of a key economic outlook
report for clues as to whether the Japanese central bank will
hike rates again the summer, with few doubting a move Friday,
dealers said.


"Traders are focused on the outlook report to see whether it will
be supportive or not of the economy. If it's not that weak, it
will compensate for the CPI," Matsumoto said.


After raising rates to 0.5 percent in February, the Bank of Japan
has fanned expectations of another hike to gradually put Japan in
line with other major economies.


Investors were also focused on the release later in the day of US
gross domestic product (GDP) for the first quarter, dealers said.


The growth figures will be pivotal to determine whether the US
Federal Reserve will cut interest rates to stimulate a flagging
economy or hold them steady in the face of strong growth and
inflation pressures.


"Although recent US data has been mixed, there is a possibility
that the GDP could be higher than expected," Matsumoto said.


Recent weak US and Japanese economic data have kept the euro
hovering near record highs, supported by robust growth in the
eurozone, dealers said.


"With the June Group of Eight summit hosted in Germany, the euro
will be nearing the crucial level against the dollar which will
continue its soft trend," said Matsumoto.


The euro has hovered near two-year highs against the dollar, with
its record top of 1.3666 posted on December 30, 2004 seen to be
within reach.

