

Lawyers for war-on-terror detainees at the Guantanamo prison late
Wednesday asked the US Supreme Court to stop a government bid to
further curb their contacts with their clients, a court source
said.


"The government is seeking to hide evidence of torture, abuse and
indefinite detention by taking the lawyers away from the cases,"
said Vincent Warren, head of the New York-based Center for
Constitutional Rights, which is coordinating the defense of
hundreds of detainees.


Last week, according to detainee lawyers, the government asked
the courts to restrict detainees to access to only one lawyer,
and allowing the lawyer only three visits with the client,
regardless of the duration of the client's detention.


The move came in the wake of the failure of a prisoners' suit to
convince US courts to acknowledge they had the right to challenge
their detention.


In February, the federal appeals court in Washington rejected a
suit filed by dozens of prisoners challenging their open-ended
detention on the US Guantanamo Bay, Cuba naval base.


The Supreme Court then declined to take up the case on April 2,
saying the detainees still had other venues for their complaint.


That left intact a district court ruling that the inmates had no
constitutional right to challenge their detention before federal
courts because they were not US citizens or on US soil.


Detainee lawyers point to a document filed in August the Justice
Department as giving an idea of the restrictions on the contacts
it is seeking based on the court rulings.


The lawyers representing the detainees said the move on contacts
with lawyers would inflict "irreparable harm" upon detainees.


"The government -- which maintains that the Guantanamo detainees
have no legal rights whatsoever -- will completely control the
terms and conditions of communications between petitioners and
their counsel," the lawyers wrote.


"If the people that are looking at these rules understand
anything about the fundamental concept of justice, they will not
allow this rule to go through," said Warren.


"But both the military and the Bush administration don't seem to
understand those fundamental principles."


A federal judge has yet to rule on the request.

