

China's Social Security fund, among the country's top investors,
has wound down its positions in equities, highlighting concerns
the nation's markets are overheated, the Financial Times said
Friday.


Gao Xiqing, the fund's vice chairman said at banking conference
in Beijing that he is worried about the 16-month run up in share
prices in China's two bourses which forced the fund to cut stock
holdings and reduce risk.


"This market seems to be defying gravity. It's got to come down
at some point. We can't risk that, especially given the nature of
our fund," the paper quoted Gao as saying. "The market is making
me nervous."


China's share prices on the key Shanghai index are up well over
200 percent since January last year, while on the Shenzhen
A-share market index prices are up more than 280 percent.


Extrordinary gains created a problem for the fund, which is
supposed to cap its holdings in domestic stocks to 30 percent of
total assets, but shares now make up nearly 40 percent of its
portfolio.


The social security fund was set up in 2000 and now hold total
assets valued at 450 billion yuan (58 billion dollars), in
equities and bonds, at home and overseas.


Gao said the fund did not want to see the market fall, but had a
duty to manage its exposure to equities.


"The market has been rallying for too long. We are conservative.
We have to be conservative by nature, so in that way we don't
want to see the market crash," he said.


In contrast to the fund's conservativeness, fresh capital keeps
flooding in as the public jostles for a piece of a market that
routinely pushes its benchmarks further into record territory.


In the first three months of the year punters in China opened
4.79 million new accounts, a 56-percent increase from the 3.08
million in the whole of 2006, the official Xinhua news agency
reported citing government statistics.


Last week the number of new accounts in China's two exchanges in
Shanghai and Shenzhen registered a record 252,000 new accounts in
one day alone, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said.


A total of five million new trading accounts will have been
opened in April, the paper, citing analysts.

