

The name might be complicated but Denagamage Proboth Mahela de
Silva Jayawardene, the captain of Sri Lanka, has a simple but
devastating approach to the game.


When he took over the leadership of the team from the injured
Marvan Atapattu in 2006, any fears that the burden of captaincy
would crush his natural attacking game were quickly put to rest.


He led his team to a 5-0 one-day whitewash over England and then
scored a Sri Lanka Test record score of 374 against South Africa
in Colombo.


For good measure, he and Kumar Sangakkara added 624 for the third
wicket - a first-class record.


But the 29-year-old Jayawardene came to the Caribbean with plenty
to prove as a World Cup player after a disastrous 2003 campaign
in South Africa were he made just 21 runs in seven innings and
was dropped.


This time around has been dramatically different.


In 10 matches in the Caribbean, he is the second highest run-
scorer in the tournament with 529 runs to his name at an average
of over 66. His superbly- paced 115 not out in the semi-final win
against New Zealand was very much the highlight.


Jayawardene says a combination of the captaincy and the influence
of Australian coach Tom Moody have been key factors in his
growing toughness.


"I have become mentally much stronger the last two years,"
Jayawardene said after scoring a maiden World Cup hundred.


"The captaincy probably would have helped but Tom definitely has
pushed me to the limits. He's not happy when I'm cruising. He's
not happy with anyone cruising. He has pushed me and I have found
out I can push myself as well."


Jayawardene won many plaudits for the way he fought his way back
into the team after that lacklustre 2003 campaign.


He made the number four position in the batting line-up his own
after the retirement of Aravinda de Silva and when Atapattu was
hit by back problems, he was named captain for the 2006 tour of
England.


He hit a memorable double of 61 and 119 at Lord's as Sri Lanka
battled to save the Test.


Jayawardene has also proved a loyal skipper, defending Upul
Tharanga at this World Cup when many wanted the opener dropped.


Tharanga repaid that faith with a fighting 73 in his team's total
of 289-5.


"The captain and the coach believed in me," said Tharanga.

