

Microsoft Corp. reported on Thursday that its profits soared to a
record high in the first three months of the year due to sales of
its new Vista operating system and Office software.


Profit in the quarter ending March 31 was 4.43 billion dollars,
or 50 cents per share, as compared to 29 cents per share, or 2.98
billion dollars, in the same period in 2006.


The Redmond, Washington-based software colossus credited the
success of its globally-promoted new Vista operating system and
related software for what it declared a record-breaking quarter.


Revenues at the world's largest software company tallied 14.4
billion dollars in the quarter as compared to 10.9 billion during
the same three months last year.


US sales of computers carrying Microsoft's new operating system
Vista leapt 67 percent in the week after it was launched on
January 30, defying the expectations of analysts who gave Vista
lackluster reviews.


Adding to the achievement was the fact that computer sales are
usually sluggish in late January and early February.


Microsoft spent five years and six billion dollars creating Vista
as the successor to its Windows XP operating system.


The software powerhouse has touted Vista worldwide as its most
secure and thoroughly-tested operating system release.


The release was repeatedly delayed, prompting computer pricing
deals and discounts to appeal to customers in the notoriously
slow sales period following the year-end holiday shopping season.


Critics maintain that Vista's complexity forces aspiring users to
upgrade computers to meet memory and graphics demands. Computer
game developers have complained Vista's security features can
block or break their software.


Approximately 95 percent of the 900 million computers in the
world run on Windows operating systems.


Microsoft forecast that its revenue for the current quarter, the
last of the firm's fiscal year, will be 13.1 to 13.4 billion
dollars and its profit will be from 37 to 39 cents per share.


Microsoft expected to finish the fiscal year with total revenues
of 56.5 to 57.5 billion dollars and per-share profit of 1.68 to
1.72 dollars. Microsoft's stock price rose less than a percent in
trading that followed release of the earnings figures after the
market's close.

