

Sony Computer Entertainment said that the "Father of the
PlayStation", Ken Kutaragi, is stepping down as chief executive
of the video game giant as it battles fierce competition from its
rivals.


Kutaragi, 56, will become honorary chairman of the company, which
has dominated the home video-game market since the 1994 launch of
the original PlayStation console, the company said in a statement
late Thursday.


Kutaragi invented and launched the original PlayStation and the
PlayStation 2 in 2000, which both became key sources of revenue
for the Japanese icon.


But his most recent brainchild, the PlayStation 3, faced a string
of setbacks and is up against intense competition from Nintendo's
Wii and Microsoft's Xbox 360.


Kutaragi already gave up the day-to-day running of the games unit
last year as it slid deeper into the red due to the huge
investments in the PS3.


He will continue to support Howard Stringer, Sony chairman and
chief executive, as senior technology advisor, the company said.


Kazuo Hirai, currently president and group chief operating
officer of Sony Computer Entertainment, will replace him.


"I am happy to graduate from Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
after introducing four platforms to the PlayStation family,"
Kutaragi said in the statement, referring to the PlayStation
family and the handheld PSP console.


"It has been an exciting experience to change the world of
computer entertainment by marrying cutting edge technologies with
creative minds from all over the world," he said.


Sony has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into PlayStation
3 and its success is considered vital to the iconic company's
future following a series of setbacks, including recalls of
millions of faulty computer batteries.


The original version and PlayStation 2 have sold more than 100
million each.


But Sony was forced to delay the global launch of the PS3 by
about six months due to problems with the high-definition DVD
player and pushed back the rollout again until March 2007 in
Europe and some other markets.


Stringer hailed Kutaragi "a powerful visionary and entrepreneur
in one figure."


"Not only has he created a multi-billion dollar business for the
Sony Group, he has brought the industry into a new dimension.
Sony has benefited tremendously from his vision, his creative
genius, and from the very strong team he assembled and nurtured,"
Stringer said.

