

Vivian Richards has said Ramnaresh Sarwan should succeed Brian
Lara as captain of the West Indies.


Lara's international retirement after a disappointing World Cup
campaign, that saw the hosts fail to make the semi-finals, has
left the selectors with a vacancy to fill ahead of the tour of
England and a decision on the new captain is due to be announced
on Sunday.


Former West Indies captain Richards said it was right that
current vice-captain Sarwan should succeed to the top job.


He backed his claims over those of Daren Ganga, the other leading
candidate, on the grounds that Sarwan was a regular member of the
team.


Intriguingly Richards, who was chief selector until June 2004,
said his time in charge had seen Sarwan considered for the
captaincy only for an incident, which he refused to reveal, to
have deprived him of the leadership.


"When I was chairman of the selection panel, we did nominate
Sarwan. But something took place then, I don't wish to say what,"
said Richards.


However, Richards was enthusiastic regarding the captaincy
capabilities of the now 26-year-old Sarwan.


"I felt he had it. Captains demand respect. All the other players
felt comfortable around him," he explained.


Opening batsman Ganga, the captain of Trinidad and Tobago, missed
out on selection for the World Cup and Richards clearly felt that
counted against his chances of captaining the team, even though
the 28-year-old has played 41 Tests and 35 one-dayers.


"Another guy who is quite capable, and whose seriousness of
approach has impressed me is Daren. I felt the two individuals
would complement each other. But I hope it's not other way
around, Ganga and Sarwan.


"Why should we have to jump over Sarwan's head to get someone
else? It's right the individual who has been in place for quite
some time gets it."


Richards, a member of the West Indies teams that won the first
two World Cups in 1975 and 1979, did not spring too many
surprises when naming his team of the tournament, which he
unveiled as part of whisky firm Johnnie Walker's 'Know Your
Boundaries' campaign promoting "responsible drinking".


Perhaps his most contentious selection was going for Kumar
Sangakkara of Sri Lanka as his wicket-keeper rather than
Australia's Adam Gilchrist, which he said was down to the
former's superior glovework.


Vivian Richards's team of the World Cup:


Matthew Hayden (AUS), Kumar Sangakkara (SRI, wk), Ricky Ponting
(AUS, capt), Kevin Pietersen (ENG), Mahela Jayawardene (SRI),
Herschelle Gibbs (RSA), Scott Styris (NZL), Shaun Tait (AUS),
Shane Bond (NZL), Glenn McGrath (AUS), Muttiah Muralitharan (SRI)

