

Jose Mourinho has never cared much for convention, and his
penchant for the unpredictable has apparently spread to his
Chelsea players.


The west Londoners were widely expected to falter under the sheer
weight of games as they pursue an unprecedented clean sweep of
the four tournaments they are involved in.


But, ominously for their rivals, Mourinho's side appear to be
growing stronger as the finishing line comes into view.


Chelsea planted one foot in the Champions League final with a
grimly determined 1-0 victory over Liverpool on Wednesday, and a
similar effort in Saturday's Premiership encounter with Bolton
could reinvigorate their title tilt, especially as Manchester
United's trip to European hopefuls Everton has a treacherous look
to it.


A clean sweep of trophies would not just represent an
extraordinary sporting achievement for Chelsea: it would be a
feat of almost superhuman endurance.


The clash with Bolton is the club's 58th competitive fixture of a
gruelling season - that tally could rise to 64 by the end of May
- and, as Mourinho is fond of reminding anyone who cares to
listen, many of them have been negotiated without key personnel.


"It's been very tough," Frank Lampard, the midfielder, admitted.
"It's hard to keep going in all different directions and although
we've done well over the last couple of months, it will not be
easy for the remaining weeks.


"The games are counting down now but we'll keep plugging away.
When you have the opportunity of winning four, three, or two
trophies, to add to the one we already have in the bag, that
should be motivation enough. Any player would love that chance
with just a month to go."


Ironically, Chelsea's injury problems appear to be dwindling
ahead in the campaign's final straight, but fatigue could yet
prove the greatest enemy of all. It certainly played a part in
the recent goalless draw with Newcastle, although the side's
resilience should never be under-estimated.


Chelsea would undoubtedly have preferred less irksome opponents
than Bolton as they seek to maintain their pursuit of another
league crown. This has been another exceptional season for Sam
Allardyce's side, who have overcome the handicap of their
relatively meagre resources to establish themselves as one of the
Premiership's elite.


Wanderers have not dropped out of the top six since December and
although last week's home defeat to Reading, another surprise
package, was a shock, they are still well placed to book a place
in next season's UEFA Cup.


Indeed, Jussi Jaaskelainen, the goalkeeper, believes it is time
his side were given the recognition they deserve outside
Lancashire.


"When we are at our absolute best there are only the top four
clubs in the country, who are better than us," the Finland
international said. "When you look at the squad of players we
have got and compare them to other sides, I think it is the best
squad outside the top four. We have the ability to beat all the
rest of the teams in our league, particularly at home. That's the
confidence level we have going into games."


Bolton will however have to do without two key players at the
weekend -- El Hadji Diouf and former Chelsea transfer target Tal
Ben Haim -- while captain Kevin Nolan is doubtful with an ankle
injury.


Chelsea are expected to welcome Michael Essien back into the
squad after he sat out the Liverpool game through suspension.

