

Legendary former Hollywood lobbyist and presidential aide Jack
Valenti has died, the Motion Picture Association of America
(MPAA) said in a statement on Thursday.


Valenti, 85, died in Washington, the statement said, a day after
checking out of a hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, where he had
been hospitalized last month for treatment following a stroke,
according to reports.


The MPAA statement did not give details on Valenti's cause of
death.


The former World War II bomber pilot was best known for four
decades spent defending the interests of Hollywood's movie
system, playing a leading role in the formation of copyright
protection and antipiracy laws.


Valenti, who retired in 2004, was also credited with establishing
a ratings systems for US films that replaced a much-reviled
censorship board.


"Jack Valenti was a giant who loomed large over two of the
world's most glittering stages -- Washington and Hollywood," MPAA
chairman and CEO Dan Glickman said in a statement, describing
Valenti as "an American original."


"No-one will ever fill his trademark cowboy books.


"The entire MPAA community is deeply saddened by the news that we
have lost Jack. Our thoughts and prayers are with Mary Margaret,
with their three children ... and with the rest of the Valenti
family.


The Harvard-educated Texan took over the MPAA leadership in 1966
and began vociferously fighting for the studios' rights both at
home and abroad.


But even before his appointment to the body that lobbies
Washington as well as foreign governments to ensure that
Hollywood's multi-billion dollar revenues are not eroded, Valenti
was no stranger to politics or to celebrity.


He first rose to prominence in November 1963 when he became a
witness to the assassination of US president John F. Kennedy in
Dallas.


As the head of a political consultancy and advertising agency in
Houston, Valenti had been hired to handle publicity for the
electoral campaign trip by Kennedy and vice president Lyndon B.
Johnson to Texas.


After Kennedy was shot, he accompanied the new president Johnson
and Kennedy's body back to Washington aboard Air Force One after
Johnson asked him to join his administration as a special
assistant at the White House.


"Like the nation, my life changed that day," Valenti once
recalled in an interview.


The straight-talking but silver-tongued Valenti stepped down from
that post in May 1966 to become the third head of the MPAA,
founded in 1922.


In 1968, he instituted the voluntary movie rating system, under
which US films are classified by certain letters depending on the
general suitability of their content, to replace an outdated
censorship body.


MPAA members include the top Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures
Entertainment, Warner Bros, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios,
Universal Studios Inc, Walt Disney Co. and 20th Century Fox.


Over the decades, Valenti rubbed shoulders with movie stars,
politicians, presidents, as well as with technical experts,
lawyers and accountants trying to battle movie piracy.


He helped introduce and push through a raft of anti-piracy
legislation and technical advances to combat the threat that
Hollywood fears could lead to the death of movie-making if left
unchecked.


Valenti's work at the MPAA was the crowning achievement of a
remarkably varied life.


At the age of 15, he became the youngest high school graduate in
Houston in the late 1930s and became a pilot in the Army Air
Corps, rising to the rank of lieutenant and flying 51 combat
missions in a B-52 bomber over Italy during World War II.


After attending university, Valenti in 1952 co-founded an
advertising agency and political consultancy firm in Houston. In
1955 he met fellow Texan Johnson, who would later make him a
member of government.


Valenti wrote several books, including a novel, has a star on the
Hollywood Walk of Fame, was awarded France's prized Legion
d'Honneur decoration and was a lifetime member of the Directors
Guild of America.

