

Japan reported Friday a second straight month of falling consumer
prices and an unexpected decline in industrial output, dampening
expectations of a near-term interest rate rise by the central
bank.


Core consumer prices slipped by 0.3 percent in March from a year
earlier, the government said, missing market forecasts for a 0.2
percent decline and worse than February's 0.1 percent drop, which
was the first for 10 months.


Richard Jerram, chief economist for Japan at Macquarie
Securities, said there was "no prospect of an early return to
positive figures."


"A Bank of Japan rate hike while prices are falling is not
impossible if the growth figures are particularly strong, but we
think that it seems unlikely," he added.


The core consumer price index (CPI) for Tokyo alone in April --
seen as a leading indicator for national price trends -- was
steady from a year earlier.


Industrial output fell by 0.6 percent in March from the previous
month.


With the economy struggling to shake off deflation, the BoJ is
expected to leave its interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent for
a third meeting in a row later Friday, when it also releases its
latest inflation and growth forecasts.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui has previously said that consumer
prices are likely to show small year-on-year falls due to cooling
oil prices, but that inflation remains on a positive trend
overall.


"We believe the BoJ is looking not at the price trend in the
immediate months ahead, but rather at the expected trend" over
the next two years, said Barclays Capital's chief economist for
Japan, Takuji Aida.


Industrial output meanwhile defied market expectations for an
increase, although the government said production was still on "a
gradual, raising trend."


The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry predicted that
production will rise by 1.5 percent in April and by a further 1.4
percent in May.


"These figures are likely to prove optimistic, but it does
suggest an improving trend is in place," noted Jerram at
Macquarie Securities.


Japan's unemployment rate held steady at 4.0 percent in March,
unchanged for a fifth straight month, while the total number of
unemployed dipped by 80,000 from a year earlier to 2.81 million
in March.


Household spending rose 0.1 percent in March from a year earlier
for a third straight monthly gain, although short of market
expectations.


"We believe wages and prices will come under upward pressure due
to the strengthening labor shortage and that the firm trend in
consumption will support real economic growth of around 2.0
percent going forward," said Aida.

