

At least four people were injured Thursday when Estonian police
used water cannons to disperse a crowd of around 1,000 people
protesting against plans to move a Soviet war memorial, officials
said.


Police also used rubber batons and powder fire extinguishers to
prevent a dozen youths from breaking through a police line around
the Bronze Soldier statue here, which commemorates Soviet Red
Army troops who drove the Nazis out of Estonia at the end of
World War II.


"Police had to use special devices to disperse people who failed
to obey orders," police spokeswoman Tuuli Harson said in a
statement.


According to the Baltic News Service (BNS) agency, police used
flash grenades to disperse the crowd. Windows of nearby houses
and cars were smashed in the unrest.


Young people who were forced out of the area around the monument
vandalised nearby shops, Estonian Television reported.


Hospital officials said four people had been admitted for
emergency care after being injured in the unrest.


Estonian authorities had cordoned off the monument in central
Tallinn early Thursday ahead of preparations to move it to a less
prominent location in the city.


The authorities want to conduct excavation work at the site -- a
busy public transport stop -- to determine if any fallen World
War II soldiers lie buried beneath the statue.


The excavations will be a prelude to the authorities' plan to
move the monument, which has provoked angry outbursts from Moscow
and Estonia's sizeable ethnic Russian minority.


Russia views the monument as a memorial to those who defeated
fascism in World War II, while many Estonians see it as a painful
reminder of nearly 50 years of Soviet occupation, which began at
the end of World War II and only ended in 1991 when the USSR
crumbled.


"We consider the actions by Estonia as an attempt to rewrite the
lessons of World War II," Mikhail Kamynin, a Russian foreign
ministry spokesman, was quoted by Moscow's Interfax news agency
as saying.


Kamynin said the Estonian government's plan to move the monument
and remains of Soviet Red Army soldiers believed to be buried
underneath was "inhuman."


"Naturally, this will be taken into consideration in working out
our relations with Estonia in the future," he warned.


Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said Estonia had not decided how to
respond to a diplomatic note received last week from Russia, in
which Moscow warned of "serious consequences" if bodies of
soldiers that might be found during excavations are exhumed.


"We don't consider it necessary to hold deep discussions with the
Russian authorities over the internal affairs of Estonia," he
told reporters.


"I stress that there has never been any talk in Estonia of
demolishing the monument," Ansip said.


"This is a tombstone that will go with any remains we might find,
which will be given a decent and dignified reburial," he said.

