

Sri Lanka's Sanath Jayasuriya and Australian paceman Glenn
McGrath will be playing their last World Cup match here on
Saturday.


But only one of them will be celebrating at the end of the 2007
final.


The pair have been looking at their best with left-handed opener
Jayasuriya, a survivor of the 1996 World Cup winning team,
showing off his big-hitting in early overs and McGrath with his
disciplined pace and subtle variations.


Discipline is McGrath's virtue.


He is the leading wicket-taker in the ongoing tournament, with 25
victims in 10 matches to underline yet again that age is no bar
to success. He may be 37 -years-old but he is performing with the
enthusiasm of a youngster.


"The fact that I'm going to retire is probably one of the reasons
I'm bowling so well because I'm just going out there, try and
enjoy it, make the most of it. Make the most of every game I
play," said McGrath.


"There's no pressure, no fear and it's coming out well. I guess
when you're playing in a successful team, it does make it a lot
easier."


McGrath has a knack of getting big wickets in important matches
which has stood his team in good stead. He has always been
instrumental in his side gaining the early initiative with his
probing line and length.


He was named man of the match after finishing with 3-18 off eight
tight overs in the semi-final win over South Africa in St Lucia.


"He (McGrath) keeps is pretty simple whether it's action or
approach. He keeps delivering and it's unbelievebale," said John
Buchanan, who is stepping down as Australia coach after this
tournament.


Like McGrath, Jayasuriya has also proved that he is getting
better and better with each year.


The Sri Lankan was the revelation of the 1996 World Cup in the
sub-continent when he redefined batting in early overs with his
over-the-top hitting.


Jayasuriya owed his success to skipper Arjuna Ranatunga.


He had been batting in the middle order before being asked to
open the innings and it was a tribute to his skill that he did
not let his captain down. He was named Player of the World Cup in
1996.


Jayasuriya was the skipper of the Sri Lankan side that lost to
Australia by 48 runs in the semi-final of the 2003 edition in
South Africa, but was willing to continue as player when stripped
of the captaincy.


He has already hammered centuries against Bangladesh and the West
Indies in the ongoing tournament, proving he is keen to cap his
international career with a title under his belt.


"I want to finish the World Cup on a high note. I haven't planned
beyond this tournament. Although I have 25 centuries, I'll never
forget the one against the West Indies (in a Super Eights game),"
said Jayasuriya.


Jayasuriya is the second-highest scorer in one-day internationals
with 11,942 runs, behind only India's Sachin Tendulkar (14,847).

