

Sri Lankan troops fired anti-aircraft weapons, evacuated
passengers and briefly shut the international airport here
Thursday night fearing a Tamil Tiger air raid, officials said.


Airport officials said they were asked to shut down the runway
and all incoming flights were diverted to neighbouring India
following reports rebel attack planes were approaching.


Two Sri Lankan Airlines flights were re-directed to Chennai in
southern India, officials said. The airline said there would be
delays following the scare.


A military helicopter gunship sent to check the reports was
forced to make a crash landing due to a technical problem, but
the pilots managed to bail out, official sources said.


Troops at the military base, which was attacked by Tamil Tiger
rebels a month ago, fired anti-aircraft weapons, a senior
government official said.


"The firing lasted a few minutes following information that two
Tiger aircraft were sighted heading towards the airport. There
was, however, no attack," the official said.


Air force spokesman Ajantha Silva said the air defence system had
been activated after unidentified aircraft were spotted north of
the airport.


Residents near the Bandaranaike International Airport, which
shares a runway with the airbase, said the gunfire went on for
about 10 minutes.


"Passengers were ordered to the ground floor after we heard gun
fire and some blasts," a woman passenger at the airport said by
telephone. "It was a panic situation, but no one was hurt."


Immediately after the alarm was raised at the airport, a power
failure plunged the capital into darkness.


The authorities had been switching off power to the city to test
their defence systems in case of a night-time rebel air attack.


The guerrillas flew over a northern military complex on Tuesday
and bombed security personnel, killing six and wounding 13.


Authorities set up a hotline for residents to call with
information about unidentified aircraft after the guerrillas last
month demonstrated that they had flying capabilities.

