

Japan on Friday hanged three inmates in its first executions this
year, the justice ministry said.


"Three inmates were executed today," a justice ministry spokesman
said.


In line with standard procedure, he declined to disclose details
including the names of those who were executed.


Kyodo News, citing unnamed sources, named the executed inmates as
Yoshikatsu Oda, Masahiro Tanaka and Kosaku Nada and said they
were hanged separately in prisons in Tokyo, the western city of
Osaka and the southwestern city of Fukuoka.


Japan is the only major industrialised nation other than the
United States to practice the death penalty.


Japan last carried out executions on Christmas Day last year when
it hanged four prisoners after a gap of 15 months due to a
previous justice minister's opposition to the death penalty.


Friday's executions were unusual in that they took place while
parliament was in session. Generally, Japanese authorities hang
inmates when parliament is in recess in an apparent move to avoid
criticism from lawmakers.


Japan has also come under fire from human rights groups for the
secrecy of its executions. It gives inmates almost no prior
notice that they will be executed so as to prevent last-minute
appeals.


Japan has one of the world's lowest crime rates. But courts have
been handing out more death sentences amid growing public concern
about violence.


In February, the number of death row inmates passed 100. The
best-known person waiting execution is Shoko Asahara, the guru of
a doomsday cult that attacked rush-hour trains in Tokyo with
nerve gas in a deadly 1995 attack.


Justice Minister Jinen Nagase had vowed a day after last year's
hangings to carry out more executions.


"I am aware of various opinions on the issue, but nearly 80
percent of the people in this country have no objection to the
existence of the death penalty," Nagase had said in December.


Former justice minister Seiken Sugiura refused to sign off on
executions, keeping the death penalty on hold for more than a
year, saying that it conflicted with his Buddhist beliefs.


Nagase replaced Sugiura when conservative Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe took over in September.

