

Two Atlanta police officers pleaded guilty Thursday to state and
federal charges related to the shooting death of a woman, 92, and
planting drugs to cover up the crime, the Justice Department
said.


Gregg Junnier, 40, and Jason Smith, 35, admitted to falsifying
requests for a warrant to enter Kathryn Johnston's home in
Atlanta, Georgia, without first identifying themselves by
claiming there were drugs in her house, the Justice Department
said in a statement.


On November 1, 2006, they and four other officers served the
warrant without identifying themselves. Johnston, who was home
alone, fired her revolver, hitting no one.


Police returned fire, hitting the woman with five or six rounds,
killing her, the statement said.


Then the officers planted marijuana in her home to justify the
break-in, according to the Justice Department, saying the police
practices had become distressingly common in anti-drug
operations.


"Any act of police misconduct threatens to undermine public trust
in the worthy goals of law enforcement," Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales said in the statement.


"We cannot allow misconduct of this nature to undermine the good
work of so many others," he said.


The officers pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter, violation
of an oath by a police officer and conspiracy to violate
Johnston's civil rights, among other charges.


Each faces up to 10 years in prison as part of a plea-bargaining
agreement to avoid trial.


A third officer, Arthur Tesler, 40, is facing charges, including
perjury, and has not reached a plea agreement.


"The killing of Kathryn Johnston by Atlanta police officers was a
horrible and unnecessary tragedy," said Atlanta federal
prosecutor David Nahmias.


"While the police officers involved were attempting to rid the
streets of drug dealers, their means toward that end violated
their oath, the constitution, and the civil rights of the
citizens they are sworn to protect, and it was inevitable that
one day someone would get seriously hurt," he said.


Johnston's family wished some good to come out of her death, and
the FBI promised to investigate the extent of the police
corruption, the statement said.

