

Spanish league strugglers Osasuna turned on the style to claim a
precious 1-0 home win over reigning UEFA Cup champions Sevilla in
the first leg of their semi-final here Thursday.


Osasuna came out fired up but appeared to be lacking the required
focus in the early stages when veteran striker Savo Milosevic
threw Sevilla's Christian Poulsen to the ground with a forceful
shove in the face.


However the Serbian's rather conspicuous foul, which went
unpunished by the referee, was followed by a period of first half
domination for the hosts, who finally broke the deadlock in the
55th minute.


Osasuna midfielder David Lopez was a thorn throughout for
Sevilla, who struggled to find their game and had even more
trouble getting the ball to their usually effective striker Fred
Kanoute.


The hosts' first sight of goal came in the 15th minute when Lopez
completed a mazy run on the left, ghosting past three defenders
to set up Patxi Punal, whose first-time shot flew two feet wide
of David Cobeno's post.


Another Lopez cross then found the head of Juanfran Torres, whose
close range header at the far post forced Cobeno to get down low
and collect.


When Lopez delivered a more telling cross from a freekick on the
right wing 10 minutes after the restart, Cobeno was left
clutching at thin air as Roberto Soldado's rising header drove
its way in at the far post.


Soldado narrowly missed claiming his second goal on 63 minutes
when he ran unchallenged down the left flank, cut inside his
defender and sent his long curling effort just over Cobeno's top
left hand corner.


Moments later Juanfran Torres beat his marker deep at the left-
hand byeline to deliver for Milosevic, whose near-post header
inched past Cobeno's right hand upright.


A minute later the referee walked off the pitch, followed by the
players, after it appeared he had been hit with an object thrown
from the crowd.


Six minutes of injury time were allocated, but despite close
efforts from Sevilla's Daniel and a late strike from Kanoute,
Osasuna held on for a well- deserved win which could prove
decisive ahead of the second leg next week.

