

Eight hundred kilometres above the earth's surface, a huge
European satellite that tracks greenhouse gas emissions, melting
ice packs and rising sea levels is receiving a new lease of life.


The European Space Agency's environmental satellite, Envisat, was
launched in 2002 with an expected lifespan of five years, but its
mission is turning out to be ever more pertinent amid heightened
concern about climate change.


The eight tonne, ten-meter (33-foot) long module -- the largest
satellite to be sent into space so far -- and its 10 data-
collecting instruments, have also proved to be so reliable that
it will now carry on for another five to seven years, said
mission director Henri Laur.


More than 900 scientists gathered in the Swiss lakeside town of
Montreux this week for an ESA conference on satellite observation
of the world's land, oceans, ice and atmosphere, which also
marked Envisat's fifth anniversary.


The 250 gigabytes of data the satellite beams to earth every day
has allowed them to literally map out changes in levels of
pollutants from industry or transport or even to spot oil tankers
that illicitly clean out their tanks on the high seas.


"You can see the impact of economic change on the environment,"
Laur said.


"Emissions have remained stable in Europe and the United States
but have increased sharply in China," he explained.


A spectometrer on the satellite can measure levels of carbon
dioxide and methane -- two of the main greenhouse gases blamed
for climate change -- in the earth's atmosphere.


"Our understanding of the phenomenon has benefitted enormously
from satellite observations," Laur underlined. "There are many
things that we would not have seen otherwise."


Envisat, which fits into a network of earth observation
satellites, helped determine the speed of the meltdown of
glaciers in Greenland, which has doubled in the space of 10
years.


It also revealed a three millimetre increase in sea levels, and
the extent of the warming of the oceans, according to ESA.


Another instrument, a radar altimeter, can measure the rate of
thinning of the melting polar icecap, even at night or beneath
cloud cover.


The 230 technicians at ESA's data processing centre at Frascati,
Italy, have also been used to spot deliberate environmental
damage by oil tankers venting their tanks.


Since oil is heavier than water, the satellite can spot the
telltale hyrdocarbon trail because its smoothes the surface waves
of the sea.


"Envisat is well known to tanker captains," Laur said.


"We think that they know our orbit, when we pass overhead," he
added.


Laur said observations by Envisat helped to reduce illegal
fishing off France's Kerguelen Islands in the Indian Ocean by 90
percent.


Envisat is likely to be replaced after 2012 by an armada of
smaller satellites called "Sentinel", each with a specialised
task in observing the chemistry of the earth's atmosphere.


However, ESA is still seeking funding from its 17 member states
for the broader project, which would allow continued European
monitoring of greenhouse gases.


Laur said the meeting in Montreux, which ends on Friday,
underlined that such monitoring was "very important."

