

The chairman of ABN Amro on Thursday said Barclays was his
company's "ideal partner," lending ammunition to the British bank
in a looming bidding war for ABN with Royal Bank of Scotland.


"We are of course convinced that Barclays is the ideal partner in
terms of culture and complementarity," chairman Rijkman Groenink
told a heated shareholders' meeting.


But later shareholders adopted a motion introduced by hedge fund
TCI calling for the management to "actively pursue any
possibility to sell some or all of the major businesses of the
company to maximise shareholder value."


The vote appeared to show displeasure among shareholders that
management has accepted an offer by Barclays, even though a
higher bid has been made by a rival consortium of banks.


Before the acrimonious general meeting on Thursday, TCI had
threatened to sue ABN Amro if management did not explore further
the rival offer by the Royal Bank of Scotland-led consortium.


Barclays on Monday said it had agreed to buy ABN Amro for 36.25
euros per share, which valued the Dutch lender at 67 billion
euros (91 billion dollars) in what would constitute the largest-
ever banking sector merger deal.


But that offer was dramatically eclipsed on Wednesday by a 72
-billion-euro (98.4 -billion-dollar) offer from a consortium led
by Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), joined in the initiative by
Dutch-Belgian group Fortis and Banco Santander of Spain.


"What makes ABN Amro such an attractive partner is that we are
doing a really good job," said Groenink, sweeping aside criticism
from activist shareholders that the bank had been
underperforming.


"Still we have had to look into alternatives because we have not
shown a rise in share prices and we did not manage to convince
our shareholders or the analysts," the ABN Amro chairman added.


He said that bank had been preparing strategic reorganisation
when Barclays entered the picture as a potential partner.


"The question is also: what can our bank achieve alone?"


ABN shareholders also voiced concern over management's decision
ruling out a vote on the proposed sale of the bank's US
subsidiary LaSalle to Bank of America for 21 billion dollars as
part of its agreement with Barclays.


The US sale is seen by some analysts as a "poison pill,"
introduced to discourage the consortium, which has said its
proposal is conditional on LaSalle remaining within the ABN
group.


ABN had earlier signalled that Bank of America would have to
match any improved offer for LaSalle.


But on Thursday ABN Amro went further, saying: "ABN Amro and its
advisers are actively engaged in soliciting alternative bids from
the largest US and international banks that may have an interest
in LaSalle."


Analysts said the RBS-led consortium wants to keep its hands on
the Dutch group's key US asset and would oppose a sale if it won
control of ABN Amro.


The Dutch shareholders' association VEB threatened on Wednesday
to take legal action against ABN Amro unless shareholders were
allowed to vote on the sale of LaSalle Bank at a general
assembly.


The London-based hedge fund TCI -- a small but influential ABN
shareholder -- deemed the consortium's bid "compelling" and
called on ABN Amro's management to terminate the sale of LaSalle.


A second motion introduced at the meeting on Thursday by TCI was
rejected. It had called on ABN management to return to
shareholders via a dividend or share buyback scheme the gains of
any divestment.


In a separate development, the consortium, having been authorised
by ABN Amro to inspect the Dutch bank's accounts, complained that
a confidentiality clause ABN Amro wants it to sign was too
restrictive.


ABN introduced a clause that would prevent the consortium from
making an offer within twelve months without ABN's prior written
consent.


The consortium has asked for the provision to be removed.

