

They're the youngest slingers in town, but Shaun Tait and Lasith
Malinga know that Saturday's World Cup final shootout can produce
only one winner.


Malinga has never played a one-dayer against Tait's Australians.


But if the defending champions want information on how dangerous
the Sri Lankan fast bowler can be, all they have to do is ask
South Africa.


The Proteas had been starting the celebrations when, after four
incredible deliveries, they turned to find themselves in deep
trouble in a World Cup Super Eights game against Sri Lanka last
month.


The cause of their unexpected pain was Malinga, the bleach-blond
paceman with the distinctive, low-slung round-arm action and
eyebrow ring who grabbed four wickets off successive balls to
almost engineer an unlikely victory in Guyana.


On Saturday, he will meet Tait, the Australian tyro with his own
slinging brand of delivery who has defied the sceptics at the
World Cup by taking 23 wickets.


Malinga is 23 and Tait 24.


But both have been troubling batsmen with their pace and
variations on their maiden Cup appearance. They are the second-
highest wicket-takers in their respective sides.


The Sri Lankan has already made history when he became the first
bowler in one- dayers to take four wickets off consecutive balls
in that clash in Guyana.


South Africa looked set to complete a formality when they were
206-5 chasing a 210-run target before slipping to 207-9 and
eventually winning the match by just one wicket.


Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody believes that facing Malinga in the
nets would help his batsmen prepare against Tait.


"They might find adjusting to Tait's line and trajectory a little
bit easier given they are used to facing Malinga in the nets,"
said Moody, a World Cup winner as a player with Australia.


Tait has so far grabbed 23 wickets in 10 matches, behind only
veteran paceman Glenn McGrath (25).


He may be sometimes expensive and sending down more wides than
expected, but his captain is not complaining.


"Whenever I called on him to get us a wicket he's done that. He's
still finding his feet in international cricket, but he has been
a wicket-taker in middle overs. He has been very impressive,"
said Ricky Ponting.


The South Africans were the latest to face the fury of Tait, who
captured four wickets to set up his team's emphatic seven-wicket
victory in the semi-final.


Tait had figured in just four one-day internationals before the
World Cup and his amazing success story meant Australia did not
feel the absence of fast bowler Brett Lee, ruled out of the
tournament due to an injury.


Malinga has also been striking at crucial stages.


He has so far taken 16 wickets in seven matches and is behind
only off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan (23).


Moody has described Malinga as "unique" who has given his team
more bowling options.


"Everything about him is unique -  his very unique action, unique
hairstyle, unique that he bowls at 90 miles an hour," he said.


"We tend to get a few (unique bowlers) in Sri Lanka. We've had
Murali over the past decade or so who has been a pretty special
bowler and still is a special bowler.


"This guy is a little bit different."

