

One year after coming under fire for stalling reforms, Yemeni
President Ali Abdullah Saleh is back in the good books of donor
countries as he prepares to visit the White House.


A presidential election deemed "successful" and the initiation of
economic reforms have earned Saleh the approval of international
donors, chiefly the United States which considers Sanaa a key
ally in the "war on terror."


The Yemeni leader is due to meet US President George W. Bush
during a trip to Washington next week.


"We have been very positive about these events of the last year,
political and economic... There has been progress, genuine
improvement in the situation," outgoing US ambassador to Yemen
Thomas C. Krajeski told AFP.


"We were surprised, pleasantly" by last September's presidential
campaign, which ended with Saleh -- in power since 1978 --
winning a new seven-year term.


Saleh, who trounced an opposition rival by winning 77 percent of
the vote, had been a shoo-in, however, and the campaign was not
free of irregularities.


Yet the head of an EU monitoring mission, Baroness Nicholson of
Winterbourne, called the ballot "an open and genuine political
contest" and "a milestone in Yemen's political history."


"Right now, in words and in law, he (Saleh) is moving ahead at a
pace that is faster than we expected," Krajeski said.


"So we (the donor community) have come forward to support the
government in its effort. And this effort has been tangible."


The US diplomat's remarks were in sharp contrast with his
criticism in late 2005 of what he described as a halt to the
process of economic liberalisation and democratisation in Yemen.


During a visit to the United States in November 2005, Saleh was
informed of its decision to deprive Yemen of financial assistance
which would have made it eligible for the Millennium Challenge
Account (MCA), an aid programme for impoverished nations launched
by the Bush administration in 2002.


The following month, the World Bank announced a one-third
reduction of its aid to Yemen.


The double blow appeared to have sufficiently shaken Saleh, who
is adept at dodging international pressure, and prompt him to
conduct an acceptable election and make a few gestures to donors,
even though these have not gone beyond a statement of intentions.


He has thus withdrawn a controversial press draft law and "taken
steps to create an independent judiciary," another Sanaa-based
diplomat said, requesting anonymity.


The government has also been moving, albeit slowly, to combat
rampant corruption, proposing legislation to ensure transparency
in public procurement and the awarding of contracts.


It has also set up a national commission, which is supposed to be
independent, whose task will be to investigate corruption cases.
Its 11 members are due to be chosen by parliament from among 30
candidates nominated by the appointed Majlis ash-Shura, or
Consultative Council.


Both chambers in the legislature are dominated by Saleh's ruling
General People's Congress (GPC), and most candidates are also GPC
members.


Donor countries appear to be satisfied, however. They pledged 4.7
billion dollars in aid for Yemen up to 2010 at a conference in
London last November, and in February Sanaa was reintegrated into
Washington's MCA programme.


The World Bank has also begun restoring its assistance to the
same level as two years ago.


In early April, Saleh named a new prime minister, Ali Mohammed
Mujawar, who has the avowed backing of the international
community.


Mujawar told AFP after his appointment that fighting corruption
topped his list of priorities, but he denied he had been named
head of the government under pressure from donors.


Krajeski said the main theme of Saleh's meeting with Bush will be
"encouragement and support" for his political and economic
reforms.


But "part of our message will be: 'you have said a lot of good
things, you've made some legislative changes, you've really taken
those issues on in a public way, but what we'll be doing now --
we being the United States and the whole international investor
and donor community -- will be waiting to see what the results
are'."

