

Sri Lanka have the chance to prove that international cricket is
not simply a case of Australia and the rest when they face the
double-defending champions in Saturday's World Cup final here at
Kensington Oval.


Such has been Australia's overwhelming dominance in the Caribbean
during their quest for a third straight World Cup title and
fourth overall, that West Indies great Vivian Richards, when
asked about the best way to beat them earlier this month,
suggested "food poisoning".


It is not difficult to see why Ricky Ponting's men, unbeaten in
28 World Cup matches, are such strong favourites to extend their
run.


With opener Matthew Hayden, who tops the tournament list of run-
scorers with 621 at an average of nearly 78, and Ponting, third
in the standings with 502 at just under 72, Australia have a
powerful batting line-up where a once challenging score of 300 is
now regarded as the bare minimum if they bat first.


Meanwhile, Australia's attack, with the exception of an overs-
reduced clash against Bangladesh, have bowled out every opponent
in the West Indies.


Three of the tournament's five leading bowlers are Australians
with veteran quick Glenn McGrath, who retires after Saturday's
match, leading the way.


The 37-year-old has 25 wickets - a record for a single World Cup
- while spearhead quick Shaun Tait is joint-second with 23 and
left-arm wrist spinner Brad Hogg third with 20.


It is that combination of variety and excellence which makes
batting against Australia so challenging and that's without
considering impressive left-arm quick Nathan Bracken.


When the finalists met recently in the Super Eights in Grenada
much was made of Sri Lanka's decision to rest bowlers Chaminda
Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan, two survivors from the side that
beat Australia in the 1996 final.


With unorthodox quick Lasith Malinga, who has yet to play a one-
dayer against Australia, injured for that game, it looked as if
Sri Lanka had hidden their three strike bowlers from Ponting's
team.


But the fact Australia dismissed a full-strength Sri Lankan
batting line-up for 226 that day may be just as significant.


"I thought they had a chance to make a bit of a statement against
us and they chose not to by resting three of their best bowlers,"
Ponting said.


"But they had their full complement of batsmen in and we bowled
them out for 226. We just have to pick them to pieces again."


And Ponting even said the likely pitch conditions on Saturday
would favour Australia.


"The wicket in Bridgetown, if it has some pace and bounce as it
has in some other games, it should suit us beautifully."


But Australia, like any side, are vulnerable to individual
brilliance and Sri Lanka are a team overflowing with flair.


As Malinga showed in his comeback match against New Zealand in
the semi-final, he can combine sheer speed with excellent
accuracy - a combination the Australia top order have yet to face
this tournament.


Tait, while an exciting wicket-taker, can be wayward and any
short-pitched deliveries could be seized on by experienced opener
Sanath Jayasuriya.


And as Upul Tharanga (73) and skipper Mahela Jayawardene (115 not
out) showed in the semi-final against New Zealand, there is more
to Sri Lanka's batting than Jayasuriya.


Although Murali took four for 31 against New Zealand, including
three wickets in six balls, the attack isn't just about him
either.


"He can't do it all the time," said Jayawardene.


"With him, Lasith and Vaas I think I have better options now and
obviously as a captain that is a good position to be in."


Australia's middle-order has yet to be tested this tournament but
it will be fascinating to see how they respond to the pressure of
facing unique off-spinner Muralitharan if Sri Lanka can take
early wickets.


Ponting was able to rile the likes of South Africa batsman
Jacques Kallis into playing an overly-aggressive shot against
McGrath as the Proteas were bowled out for just 149 in the semi-
final on Wednesday.


His mind games hit the mark because South Africa like to play
them too only they aren't up to Australia's level.


Sri Lanka, less outwardly aggressive, are less likely to be wound
up and in coach Tom Moody, a member of Australia's 1987 and 1999
World Cup winning squads, have someone who understands Ponting's
tactics better than most.


But it says something for the champions' pre-eminence in the
world game that even a Sri Lanka victory will come with an
Australian accent attached.

