

Rafael Nadal extended his record run on clay to 69 straight wins
as he moved a step closer to a title hat-trick at the Barcelona
Open on Thursday.


The Spanish top seed beat former Australian Open champion Thomas
Johansson 6-1, 6-4, but not without a spirited comeback from the
Swede in a combative second set of the third-round contest.


Nadal said he is under no pressure when he plays, but knows that
his charmed life cannot go on forever.


"I don't think about the record when I'm on the court," said the
double Roland Garros winner. "I only concentrate on the match.


"The opponent also deserves respect. I know that I will lose
sometime."


After riding roughshod over the number 73 Johansson in a
21-minute opener, Nadal looked like having things all his own
way.


But Johansson, 32, showed nerve as he re-discovered his survival
instincts to turn the second into a struggle at the Real club.


Johansson fired six aces and held serve in a marathon sixth game
featuring eight deuces.


But Nadal had the last word in front of his home public, breaking
for victory in the final game after Johansson followed an ace
with a run of errors.


It took Nadal appropiately 69 minutes to go through.


The Spaniard is bidding to collect a hat-trick of Barcelona
titles, aiming to become the second man after Swede Mats Wilander
(1982-1984) to win the event three times on the trot.


"I controlled the game in the first set but he played well in the
second," said the winner. "I tried not to let up after winning
the first easily.


"It's unbelievable to win 69 on clay and it's especially nice to
play here, where I have so much support."


Nadal improved his Barcelona career record to 13-1, his lone loss
coming in 2003 when he was beaten as a teenager in the second
round by Alex Corretja.


He next faces Italian surprise packet Potito Starace, the number
72 who beat Argentine eighth seed Juan Chela 6-4, 7-6 (12-10) in
their third-round encounter on a fifth match point.


Fifth seed David Ferrer flew the flag for Spain as he hammered
Serb Boris Pashanski 6-2, 7-5. But there was a home loss as
Argentine Agustin Calleri upset number three and 2006 finalist
Tommy Robredo 6-4, 2-6, 6-3.


Second seed Nikolay Davydenko won a momentum-shifting match over
Filippo Volandri, coming from 2-5 down in the second-set tie-
breaker.


Number four David Nalbandian out out Spanish 16th seed Carlos
Moya 6-4, 6-3.


Unknown Spaniard Oscar Hernandez, who has played just eight
career matches off of the clay, upset sixth seed Jarkko Nieminen
6-1, 6-7 (6/8), 6-3 with the frustrated Finn missing on 17 or 19
break chances, including six in the marathon final game.

