

Schalke 04's Brazilian midfielder Lincoln insisted on Thursday
his side will do "whatever it takes" in their quest to lift their
first Bundesliga title.


The 28-year-old is battling to shake off a thigh injury for
Friday night's trip to VfL Bochum, but with only four games left
the race for the title will go to the wire and no Schalke player
wants to miss a game.


Schalke are just two points clear of second-placed Werder Bremen
and having won the last of their seven German titles in 1958,
this would be their first time as Bundesliga champions since the
new format was introduced in 1963.


Schalke suffered heartbreak in 2001 when they thought they had
captured the title following a 5-3 win over Unterhaching only for
Bayern Munich's defender Patrik Andersson to grab an equaliser
deep into injury-time at Hamburg which snatched the title away.


"Each of us has a job to do, everybody has to give their all. We
are ready, we'll do whatever it takes," said Lincoln.


Schalke coach Mirko Slomka says his side must concentrate on
winning their last four games - against Bochum, Nuremberg,
Borussia Dortmund and Arminia Bielefeld - to make the title safe.


"We just have to win our matches, whether on Friday, Saturday or
Sunday.


"Our position on that score hasn't changed over the last few
weeks.


"It's not a question of waiting for one of the others to slip up
- we just have to put on a good performance ourselves".


Should Schalke lose, second-placed Werder Bremen are on their
heels just two points behind and they travel to Arminia Bielefeld
on Sunday, having contested the first leg of the UEFA Cup semi-
final at Spain's Espanyol on Thursday.


All is not rosy in the Bremen squad with question marks hanging
over the future at the club of midfielders Torsten Frings and
Diego, as well as striker Miroslav Klose.


"It is not pleasant that these discussions are permanently on the
agenda," Bremen coach Thomas Schaaf said.


Last weekend's defeat at VfB Stuttgart means fourth-placed Bayern
Munich have a five-point gap to close to secure a top-three
finish which will guarantee them a Champions League place next
year.


Failure to do so would mean they miss out on a place in Europe's
premier tournament for the first time in 11 years and the German
giants would have to swallow the bitter pill of life in the UEFA
Cup.


Bayern have injury problems with German striker Lukas Podolski
out for the rest of the season with a knee injury, while Mark van
Bommel (ankle), Owen Hargreaves (knee) and Claudio Pizarro are
all struggling to be fit.


But Bayern's Brazilian defender Lucio insists the fight for a
Champions League place is not over, even though the German giants
are running out of games, with four left including Saturday's
visit of Hamburg.


"We have to pull together and make sure we turn the corner," said
the 28-year- old.


Third-placed Stuttgart can expect three points from their visit
to bottom-side Borussia Monchengladbach, while ninth-placed
Hertha Berlin travel to Alemannia Aachen, who are desperately
trying to escape the bottom three.


Second-from-bottom Mainz 05 will be praying for three points when
they host mid- table Hanover and they will be hoping for some
magic from their Egyptian striker Mohamed Zidan, who has bagged
11 goals this season.


Borussia Dortmund and Eintracht Frankfurt, both hovering above
the bottom three, will be scrapping for points, while VfL
Wolfsburg travel to Nuremberg.


And on Sunday, Energie Cottbus are at Bayer Leverkusen, who are
fifth and currently occupy the final UEFA Cup spot.

