

US oilfield service firm Baker Hughes pleaded guilty Thursday to
criminal charges that it bribed a Kazakh official while seeking
to win a major contract tied to the giant Karachaganak oil field,
US prosecutors said.


Justice Department officials said Baker Hughes had agreed to pay
a criminal fine of 11 million dollars in one of the biggest
sanctions ever brought under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.


"Today's announcement demonstrates that the Department of Justice
will continue to hold US companies and their subsidiaries
accountable for foreign bribery," said assistant attorney general
Alice Fisher.


Aside from the 11 million dollar penalty, Baker Hughes also
agreed to pay civil fines of over 34 million dollars in a
separate settlement with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission.


The case revolved around Baker Hughes Services International
Inc., a subsidiary of Baker Hughes Inc. The firm entered its
guilty plea at a Texas court hearing earlier Thursday before
District judge Gray Miller.


Baker Hughes said in a statement that the accords resolved
"previously disclosed" probes into its business practices.


"These parallel settlements resolve the investigations, disclosed
in 2002 and 2003, into Baker Hughes' operations in Angola,
Kazakhstan and Nigeria," the company said.


The company admitted it had violated the anti-bribery act by
paying 4.1 million dollars in bribes over a two-year period to an
unnamed "intermediary."


Prosecutors said the "intermediary" was a Kazakh official and
that Baker Hughes "believed [the individual] would transfer all
or part the corrupt payments to an official of Kazakhoil, the
state-owned oil company."


The illicit payments were processed through a London bank account
controlled by "a consulting firm" based on the Isle of Man.
Investigators did not identify the consulting group, but said the
bribes were made in part at the behest of Kazakh officials.


The US firm, after signing off on the corrupt payments, was
subsequently awarded a lucrative oilfield services contract tied
to the huge Karachaganak crude field in northwest Kazakhstan.


"The record penalties leveled in this case leave no doubt that
foreign bribery is bad for business," Fisher warned, adding that
the government brought the case in part to ensure a level
"playing field" for US firms operating overseas.


Chad Deaton, Baker Hughes's chief executive, said: "Since the
commencement of these investigations in 2002, we have cooperated
fully with the SEC and DOJ."


The firm also entered into a deferred prosecution accord with the
government as part of its settlement, as well as agreeing to
adopt a "comprehensive anti- bribery compliance program."

