

China CITIC Bank, the mainland's seventh largest bank, opened
above its listing price on its debut here Friday but lagged
considerably on the stock's Shanghai performance, dealers said.


They said the listing was taking place after reports of unease at
recent unprecedented gains in the Chinese stock markets from the
China's National Social Security Fund, a major institutional
investor and this may have hit sentiment.


CITIC Bank opened at 7.08 Hong Kong dollars (90 US cents), up
20.82 percent from its offer price of 5.86 Hong Kong dollars. The
price then slipped to 6.89 dollars, an increase of 17.6 percent.


The main Hang Seng Index was down some 0.42 percent, recovering
some of the ground lost in early trade.


CITIC Bank listed simultaneously in Hong Kong and Shanghai after
raising about 5.4 billion dollars in what is the world's largest
Initial Public Offering (IPO) so far this year.


At the listing ceremony in Hong Kong, CITIC Bank chairman Kong
Dan did not comment on whether he was satisified with the opening
price but only said he hoped that the market will "treat us
rationally."


When asked whether possible credit-tightening measures by Beijing
would affect the bank's performance, Kong was optimistic that any
new policies would have a positive impact on the Chinese economy
and the company.


"I believe that any new monetary policies would have a positive
impact on us even if it means it might be an interest rate hike,"
he told reporters.


The company said the retail tranche of its Hong Kong offering was
229 times oversubscribed while the international tranche was
"very significantly oversubscribed".


In Shanghai, CITIC Bank jumped 55 percent, hitting 9.00 yuan
(1.16 dollars) in early trade, well above expectations for a
range of 6.50 to 8.0 yuan.


The lender sold 2.302 billion A-shares in Shanghai at 5.8 yuan
per share and 4.885 billion H-shares in Hong Kong at 5.86 Hong
Kong dollars each.


CITIC Bank raised net proceeds of 13.06 billion yuan from its IPO
in Shanghai and about 27.62 billion Hong Kong dollars (3.54
billion US) from the Hong Kong sale.


The dual listing comes as Beijing encourages China's major firms
to list for preference at home so as to help soak up abundant
liquidity and steady a market which has soared since the
beginning of 2006.


The bank plans to use the proceeds to expand its capital base.

