

Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and six other White House hopefuls
will jockey for position on Iraq and other issues Thursday in the
Democratic Party's first presidential debate.


More than 18 months before the November 4, 2008 election, the
Democrats gathered at a university here for a debate likely to be
long on criticism of President George W. Bush but short on policy
differences among them.


Clinton goes into the 90-minute session locked in a close race
with her Senate colleague Obama, according to the latest national
polls, with former senator John Edwards gaining ground in third
place.


A survey by The Wall Street Journal and NBC News showed Clinton
carrying a 36-31 percent lead over Obama, down from a 12-point
edge she held a month ago. Edwards, the party's 2004 vice
presidential candidate, was at 20 percent.


A poll published Monday by Rasmussen Institute showed Clinton,
seeking to become the first woman US president, tied at 32
percent with Obama, as he strives to become the country's first
African-American president.


Iraq was likely to be a key topic as the candidates squared off
just hours after the Democratic-controlled Congress adopted a
timetable for the withdrawal of US troops starting in October,
despite Bush's certain veto.


Armed with poll results showing a majority of Americans backing
the Democratic push for a pullout, the candidates are not likely
to spare the rhetoric attacking Bush's "stay the course" policy.


But the challenge will be for them to differentiate themselves on
their prescription for winding down the four-year-old war that
has become increasingly unpopular.


Obama will be able to stress his consistent opposition to the
March 2003 invasion, in contrast to Clinton who voted to
authorize the military operation but now backs a bill seeking a
phased withdrawal.


"Obviously Obama was the most outspoken against the war, he was
against it initially, unlike Senator Clinton," said Peter Brown,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute.


"Especially in the primary (phase), early opposition to the war
is a plus to him (Obama)," Brown said.


Brown said Obama was well-placed to make further inroads in the
lead held in national polls by the former first lady.


"There are still one-third of the voters who haven't yet made up
their minds about him. There is an opportunity to grow, while
almost all voters know what they think about Hillary Clinton,"
Brown said.


But as Clinton, Obama and Edwards slug it out in Thursday's
debate, they are being shadowed by another Democrat who has not
declared his candidacy -- former vice president and 2000 White
House nominee Al Gore.


A Quinnipiac poll published Thursday suggested Gore, whose
crusade against global warming has earned him headlines and an
Academy Award, would run more strongly against the Republicans
than either Clinton or Obama.


It showed him doing better than either contender when matched up
against former New York mayor Giuliani, the Republican
frontrunner, in the key swing states of Florida, Ohio and
Pennsylvania.


South Carolina is a key state in the nominating process as it
will hold a primary election next year in between the initial
contests in Iowa and New Hampshire and the "Super Tuesday" slate
of races on February 5.


Thursday's debate was seen as a key step for each candidate in
helping raise funds and attract staff to what is turning out to
be the longest and most expensive campaign for the US president
in history.


It will also be a chance for lesser-known candidates such as
senators Joe Biden and Christopher Dodd, New Mexico Governor Bill
Richardson, former senator Mike Gravel and Representative Dennis
Kucinich to boost their profiles.

