

He was branded too old and too hittable. But like the horse who
won the Derby despite being bred for a shorter distance, if
someone told Glenn McGrath this was a World Cup too far, he
didn't hear them.


Saturday's final against Sri Lanka will be the 37-year-old
quick's last match before retirement and unlike so many players
before him, McGrath is bowing out while still giving opponents
huge problems.


He nears his fourth successive final having set a new World Cup
record of 25 wickets for a tournament, beating the record
previously held by Sri Lanka duo Chaminda Vaas (23 in 2003) and
Muttiah Muralitharan (23 in 2007).


McGrath is also the leading wicket-taker in World Cup history
with 70 victims, having passed Pakistan great Wasim Akram's
previous best of 55 earlier in this competition.


And to think before the recent Ashes series, which marked
McGrath's goodbye to Test cricket and in which he played a major
role as Australia won 5-0, he was branded a member of a 'Dad's
Army' ageing team by Ian Botham.


Some Dad and some Army.


McGrath's career was never at any stage built on sheer speed of
the kind exhibited by Australia team-mates Brett Lee and Shaun
Tait.


Instead he concentrated on remorseless accuracy and developing
the ability to move the ball late off a good length - something
that torments top batsmen far more than brute pace.


In recent times, the likes of England batsman Kevin Pietersen
have tried to hit McGrath off his customary good length by
advancing down the pitch and trying to strike him over the in-
field.


But although Pietersen has occassionally succeeded, McGrath has
generally had the last word be it breaking one of the South
Africa-born shotmaker's ribs in Australia or by taking wickets.


Wednesday's semi-final win against South Africa, where McGrath
took three for 18 in St Lucia as Australia cruised into the
final, provided a brilliant snapshot of his recent career.


Earlier in the week Australia captain Ricky Ponting had tried to
rile Jacques Kallis by suggesting the Proteas' No 3 was a slow
scorer.


As if angered by the criticism, Kallis departed from his normal
approach at the start of an innings and smashed McGrath for four
through the covers after giving himself room.


Next ball, Kallis went to play an even more extravagant shot,
going down on one knee, only to see his off-stump knocked back.


It was classic bowling. The batsman had missed and McGrath had
hit.


Despite joking he might now come out of retirement, McGrath said
he was happy to be quitting atop the summit of world cricket.


"I'm still happy to finish up at the end of this World Cup. I
think the fact that I have decided to retire is probably one of
the reasons why I'm bowling so well.


"There's no pressure, no fear, no anything. I'm happy with the
way I'm bowling. For me personally it has been really enjoyable.
One match to go and I'm really looking forward to it."


The Kensington Oval showpiece will see McGrath up against fellow
37-year-old Sanath Jayasuriya, the opening batsman whose dynamic
strokeplay was such a feature of Sri Lanka's victorious 1996
World Cup winning campaign where they beat Australia in the
final.


"We know each other very well. I know exactly what I want to bowl
to Sanath and I'm sure he knows what I'm going to bowl to him.


"He's an aggressive type of player. Those guys, some days they
will come off but there is always a chance of giving you their
wicket."


But Jayasuriya and the rest of the world's top batsmen at least
know that the dreaded 'corridor of uncertainty' outside their
off-stumps is about to become a slightly safer place.

