

Canada unveiled plans Thursday to force big industry to help curb
the country's greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020, but
ruled out meeting its Kyoto Protocol targets.


"Canada needs to do a U-turn," Environment Minister John Baird
said. "We are serving notice that beginning today industry will
need to make real reductions."


But he maintained that the Kyoto targets, agreed by a previous
Liberal government in 1998, are unattainable.


Environmentalists and opposition parties panned the plan as doing
too little too late.


The plan aims to cut greenhouse-gas emissions linked to global
warming by 150 megatonnes, or 20 percent based on 2006 levels, by
2020. Growth in emissions would first be halted by 2012 and
eventually would be reduced by up to 70 percent by 2050.


Companies that produce electricity by combustion, Canada's
booming oil and gas sector, base metal smelters, iron and steel
companies, and some mining firms, as well as cement, pulp and
paper, aluminum and chemicals producers face mandatory emissions
cuts.


They currently account for 52 percent of Canada's carbon-dioxide
(CO2) emissions.


Heavy industry would be required to cut CO2 emissions per unit by
18 percent by 2010, or an average of six percent per year
starting immediately.


Thereafter, they would be expected to cut emissions by two
percent annually to reach a 26 percent reduction by 2015.


Environmentalists have blasted intensity-based targets that
reduce emissions incrementally as industrial output increases, in
contrast to firm cuts to total emissions.


Oil companies, for example, would have to reduce emissions from
the production of each barrel of oil, but if they sell more
barrels each year, as is the trend, overall emissions would
continue rising.


But officials insisted that the new intensity-based targets are
stringent enough to lead to "absolute reductions" in emissions.


"This is the toughest (environmental) plan ever proposed by a
Canadian government," Baird told reporters.


Under the scheme, companies could contribute to a government
clean technology fund, or trade emissions credits on a domestic
market to be set up by the government, with possible future
linkages with trading systems in the United States and Mexico.


They may also fetch "high-quality" credits from abroad under the
Kyoto Protocol's clean development mechanism to encourage
projects in developing countries, to reduce their emissions tally
by up to 10 percent.


The Conservatives previously flouted this international
mechanism, calling it a "hot air" market.


Companies which reduce their CO2 emissions linked to global
warming prior to 2006 would also be rewarded with a one-time
credit for early action, while new factories would get a three-
year exemption.


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012,
but emissions have instead increased by 35 percent.


In the past year, the minority Conservative government has
clashed with Parliament over its refusal to try to meet its Kyoto
Protocol targets and has been threatened with lawsuits to force
emission cuts.


Last week, Baird outlined a doomsday economic scenario if Ottawa
imposed tougher measures to cut greenhouse-gas emissions to meet
the international commitment.


He told a senate committee reviewing a private member's bill that
forces the government to meet its Kyoto timetable that these
emissions cuts would have "a devastating effect on the Canadian
economy," with hundreds of thousands of job losses and
skyrocketing unemployment.


Canada's economy would decline by more than 6.5 percent relative
to current projections in 2008, falling about 4.2 percent or
about 51 billion Canadian dollars (45 billion US) below the 2007
level, he predicted.


"That implies a deep recession in 2008," Baird said then. "I
believe this is a massive and unacceptable cost for Canadian
families."


Under the current plan, Canada's gross domestic product (GDP)
would be slashed by 0.5 percent, costing the economy about
7.0-8.0 billion Canadian dollars (6.2-7.1 billion US) per year in
its most expensive year, Baird said Thursday.


"The cost of our plan is manageable," he said.


Previously, Ottawa also announced rebates for more fuel-efficient
cars, vehicle fuel-efficiency regulations that echo US rules, and
banned energy-ineffiencent lightbulbs.

