

Spanish league strugglers Osasuna turned on the style to claim a
precious 1-0 home win over reigning UEFA Cup champions Sevilla in
the first leg of their semi-final here Thursday.


And an all-Spanish final in Glasgow on May 16 looks a distinct
possibility after Espanyol defeated German side Werder Bremen 3-0
in the other semi-final first leg in Barcelona.


Osasuna came out fired up but appeared to be lacking the required
focus in the early stages when veteran striker Savo Milosevic
threw Sevilla's Christian Poulsen to the ground with a forceful
shove in the face.


However the Serbian's rather conspicuous foul, which went
unpunished by the referee, was followed by a period of first half
domination for the hosts, who finally broke the deadlock in the
55th minute.


Osasuna midfielder David Lopez was a thorn throughout for
Sevilla, who struggled to find their game and had even more
trouble getting the ball to their usually effective striker Fred
Kanoute.


The hosts' first sight of goal came in the 15th minute when Lopez
completed a mazy run on the left, ghosting past three defenders
to set up Patxi Punal, whose first-time shot flew two feet wide
of David Cobeno's post.


Another Lopez cross then found the head of Juanfran Torres, whose
close range header at the far post forced Cobeno to get down low
and collect.


When Lopez delivered a more telling cross from a freekick on the
right wing 10 minutes after the restart, Cobeno was left
clutching at thin air as Roberto Soldado's rising header drove
its way in at the far post.


Soldado narrowly missed claiming his second goal on 63 minutes
when he ran unchallenged down the left flank, cut inside his
defender and sent his long curling effort just over Cobeno's top
left hand corner.


Moments later Juanfran Torres beat his marker deep at the left-
hand byeline to deliver for Milosevic, whose near-post header
inched past Cobeno's right hand upright.


A minute later the referee walked off the pitch, followed by the
players, after it appeared he had been hit with an object thrown
from the crowd.


Six minutes of injury time were allocated, but despite close
efforts from Sevilla's Daniel and a late strike from Kanoute,
Osasuna held on for a well- deserved win which could prove
decisive ahead of the second leg next week.


Down in the Catalan capital Barcelona Espanyol were in front
midway through the first half when Moises Hurtado headed into the
top corner after an Ivan de la Pena corner.


It was a bitter sweet evening for Moises who five minutes later
picked up a yellow card ruling him out of the second leg return
trip to Bremen next week.


Espanyol doubled their lead when the competition's leading scorer
this season, Walter Pandiani, got their second shortly after the
break.


Again it came from a De La Pena corner with Pandiani heading the
ball in at the near post for his 11th UEFA Cup goal.


But like his teammate Moises he will also miss next week's trip
to Germany after picking up a 67th minute booking.


Bremen's task was made all the more difficult when their
goalkeeper Tim Wiese was sent off in the 58th minute for a
professional foul on Raul Tamudo. Stand-in keeper Andreas Reinke
came on in place of Daniel Jenson.


Ferran Corominas came on for Francisco Rufete in the 83rd minute
and five minutes later the substitute made his mark on the game,
turning in Albert Riera's low cross for Espanyol's third goal.

