

Born without arms or legs, Hirotada Ototake inspired Japan a
decade ago with a best-selling book about his unflagging strength
and determination to lead a fulfilling life.


Now he is taking on a new challenge by becoming a schoolteacher
in a bid to teach the next generation to accept differences in a
society that has traditionally frowned on individuality.


"My dream is to create a peaceful world," Ototake told AFP in an
interview after his first days in the classroom.


"If my competence and character could bring me even one little
step closer to this goal, I would be very happy and find meaning
in having been born into this world," he said, smiling and
nodding his head.


Author of international best-seller "Nobody's Perfect" published
nine years ago, the 31-year-old took a job teaching students from
first to sixth grades at a Tokyo school when the academic year
began earlier this month.


"This is a big day for me," Ototake announced from his electric
wheelchair at the opening ceremony of the Suginami Dai-Yon
Elementary School, his voice ringing clear over rows of obedient
heads.


"Some of you have asked me: but how are you going to teach? Well,
you will have to help me in class, like writing on the
blackboard. Or else I'll write putting chalk between my cheek and
my shoulder," he explained.


As children dispersed after the official ceremony, a handful
encircled Ototake, touching and looking at his shoulders and
legs, trying to see where they began and where they ended.


Their new teacher, wearing a light grey suit and a pink tie, did
not object. Instead he grinned.


-- Disability as a positive --


Ototake was born with a rare genetic disorder called tetra-amelia
which is characterised by an absence of the upper and lower
limbs.


He is accompanied by his aide Shinichi Ono, who helps him with
everything from changing into his gym clothes to driving him to
and from home.


But his disability did not prevent him from doing the unthinkable
-- playing basketball and baseball after years of practice
adapting the bats and balls to his body.


His passion drove him to become a successful sports journalist
before he finally decided two years ago to study to become a
teacher.


He will be teaching sixth grade social science and fifth grade
science classes. He will teach "morality" classes from the first
to sixth grades.


"There are things that only I, because of my situation, can teach
children, unlike other teachers," he said, adding that those
things, such as respect and acceptance, won't come from any
textbook.


He said having someone with disabilities in the classroom -- like
himself as a child due to his parents' decision to send him to a
normal school -- would help create an atmosphere of solidarity.


"Instead of logically and conceptually teaching children by words
that discrimination is a bad thing, it is better to have them
learn naturally through experience to coexist with a disabled
child," he said.


Other life principles he would like to transmit to his students
include setting goals and reaching them through tireless efforts.


"By only looking at my body you would think it impossible to
dribble and throw a ball. But if children could watch me and
think, 'Wow, he must have worked hard to do that' they too may
feel they can challenge themselves to do something without giving
up," he said.


"Or else while watching Mr Ono help me, they might feel what a
marvelous thing it is to help one another -- which would make me
happy."


The journalist-turned-author-turned-teacher said he hopes to
combat bullying, a high-profile problem in Japanese schools
blamed for a spate of student suicides.


"I would like to have a class where classmates would accept each
other," he said, "to make students feel that everyone is
different and that that's only natural."


-- Getting used to differences --


But Ototake knows he is up against a challenge.


In his view, people with disabilities are less accepted in Japan
than in major Western countries.


As what he calls a "homogeneous" society, Japan still has trouble
accepting the disabled because people are not used to dealing
with them in their daily lives.


"The only way to have Japanese accept differences is to get used
to them," he said.


Usually Japanese people "only get to see and meet people with
disabilities on special occasions," he said, calling Japan's
facilities for physically challenged people insufficient.


"People react to a person with disabilities as if he belongs to a
different world. But if they are used to interacting with a
person with disabilities in their daily lives then they wouldn't
perceive him as special," he said.


Fighting discrimination, in the end, all boils down to
personality, said Ototake.


"Whether you have disabilities or not, if you hit it off well
with another person, you will be accepted. Even for two people
without disabilities, they won't tolerate each other if they are
incompatible."


For Ototake himself, there is a fine balance between using his
situation to make a difference in society while fighting for
Japan to accept people with disabilities.


"I've lived thus far on the simple premise that as a human being
I have challenged myself to the things I wanted to," he said. "I
would like to keep this attitude of not being fixated on my
disability, but would like society to accept it."

