

If the critics were to be believed, skipper Ricky Ponting came to
the World Cup in charge of a team in danger of decline after
humbling series defeats to England and New Zealand.


But they reckoned without the character and steely resolve of the
man nicknamed Punter who has always backed himself and his side
to overcome obstacles.


He's been proved right with the double defending world champions
having cruised into their fourth successive World Cup final where
they will face Sri Lanka on Saturday.


Ponting enjoys a fight.


He kept his career on track despite off-field indiscretions in
the 1990s. He also overcame the shock loss of the cherished Ashes
in 2005 to reclaim them in a stunning 5-0 whitewash of England
last winter.


Even the pressures of captaincy haven't told on Ponting. He is
the third highest runmaker at the World Cup with 502 runs and an
average of 71.71, taking his career ODI total to 10,358 runs in
the process.


Ponting missed the disastrous Chappell-Hadlee Trophy series on
the eve of the World Cup when the listing Australians capitulated
to a 3-0 defeat and unhinged team confidence and morale in the
countdown to the Caribbean.


He missed that trip because of back trouble, that originated last
November during the first Ashes Test against England in Brisbane.


He needed three cortisone injections just after Australia's tri-
series loss to England to reduce inflammation caused by bone
spurs in his spine.


Ponting was always crucial to Australia's chances of turning
around a bewildering change in fortunes after dominating England
and New Zealand in the home tri-series, only to go down three
times in a row to England in the final and lose their first home
one-day series in 14 years.


In Ponting's absence, Australia's bowlers were then battered by
New Zealand's batsmen in the Chappell-Hadlee series, taking a
total of just 13 wickets while conceding two of the three biggest
run chases in one-day history -- 336 and 346 -- in crashing to a
disastrous series sweep.


But he's back in style and so is his team.


Ponting is playing in his fourth World Cup.


His unbeaten innings of 140 off 121 balls helped Australia beat
India in the last World Cup final at the Wanderers in
Johannesburg in 2003.


Few would bet against him repeating that performance at
Kensington Oval on Saturday.

