

US shares closed higher Thursday as bargain hunters emerged and
snapped up stocks following hefty losses in the prior day's
trading session, market participants said.


Traders voiced optimism that the hangover from Wednesday's share
sell off had abated after the minutes of a Federal Reserve
meeting dashed investors hopes of interest rate cuts anytime
soon.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished up 68.34 points (0.55
percent) at 12,552.96 after opening lower in morning trading.


The Nasdaq composite closed up 21.01 points (0.85 percent) at
2,480.32 while the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index
gained 8.93 points (0.62 percent) to 1,447.80.


"The market showed good action today as it overcame higher oil
prices and an unfavorable economic report," said Al Goldman, a
chief market strategist at AG Edwards.


Market observers said confidence had returned to the market
following Wednesday's hefty losses and that a robust Easter sales
performance from some retailers and renewed takeover activity had
helped propel stocks higher.


Retail titan Wal-Mart announced better-than-expected comparable
store sales for the four week period ended April 6, saying sales
had increased four percent compared with the same period a year
earlier.


Wal-Mart's stock closed down one cent at 47.26 dollars.


On the deal front, Swiss food giant Nestle said it had agreed to
buy US baby food maker Gerber for 5.5 billion dollars in a
transaction boosting its global footprint.


Nestle said the all-cash offer to buy Gerber from Swiss
pharmaceutical group Novartis would secure it a top position in
the United States, the world's largest baby food market, where
Gerber has a 79-percent market share.


Novartis' US-listed shares gained 38 cents to 55.47.


In other news, Dow Chemical said it had sacked two corporate
officers for "unauthorized discussions with third parties about
the potential acquisition" of the chemicals giant.


Dow said it had terminated Pedro Reinhard, a senior advisor and
member of the board, and Romeo Kreinberg, an officer of the
company, for engaging in "business activity that was highly
inappropriate and a clear violation of Dow's Code of Business
Conduct."


Dow's shares had surged earlier this week on reports that US
private equity firms and foreign investors were poised to mount a
mega 50-billion-dollar takeover bid for the company.


Dow's shares closed up 91 cents at 46.00 dollars.


Canadian media reports meanwhile suggested that auto-parts giant
Magna International Inc. was wooing investment firm Onex Corp. to
help it launch an all-Canadian bid for troubled US carmaker
Chrysler.


German-US auto giant DaimlerChrysler has put Chrysler up for sale
after struggling to maintain the US firm's vehicles sales, partly
amid an onslaught from Japanese car makers.


Magna ended down 1.34 dollars at 77.11 while DaimlerChysler's US-
listed shares lost 16 cents to 83.02.


On the oil market, New York's leading oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, jumped 1.84 dollars to close at
63.85 dollars per barrel.


Bond prices also firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury
bond eased to 4.737 percent from 4.739 percent late Wednesday and
that on the 30-year bond dipped to 4.910 percent against 4.915
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

