

Lens will seek to breath life back into the virtually decided
French title race when they travel to fallen giants Nantes on
Saturday.


The northern French side trail five-time champions Lyon by 17
points, and need to win and hope Lyon lose on Sunday to lowly
Sedan to narrow the gap and thus extend Lyon's wait for a sixth
consecutive title.


It is just a matter of time, however, until Gerard Houllier's
side get their hands on trophy number six.


Needing just four points from their remaining seven matches and
with a game in hand, Lyon will be virtually guaranteed of winning
the title in the event they beat Sedan and both Lens and Toulouse
suffer defeats in their respective matches.


Lyon, though, have been struggling for the sort of form they
boasted prior to the New Year, which gives Lens and Toulouse some
slight cause for hope.


If Nantes were hoping that their plight - they are bottom and
four points from safety - would soften the hearts of the Lens
squad then they will be sorely disappointed as the highflyers
seek to consolidate their claims for second place and a spot in
the Champions League next season.


The 'Black and Gold' are going through a terrible period, having
won just once in their last seven matches - including a first
defeat at home in 10 seasons to struggling Paris Saint Germain -
however their coach Francis Gillot remains optimistic.


"We have suffered three successive defeats but there remains a
fifth of this surprising championship to go," said Gillot, whose
side have already played an astonishing 47 matches this campaign.


"Other sides will also have their bad moments in what remains of
the season."


Lens captain Seydou Keita had a word of sympathy for Nantes but
said it was imperative they got back to winning ways.


"With all due respect to the other teams in trouble, it would be
a shame given Nantes' history if they did get relegated.


"But even though a win over Nantes will not assure us of second
place it is vital we take the three points."


One of Keita's former team-mates has been giving Lyon coach
Houllier an unnecessary headache this week as Alou Diarra has
effectively been banished after refusing to play for the reserve
side.


"I have nothing against him," insisted Houllier, who despite all
but guiding them to a sixth title has been criticised for his
habit of rotating the starting line-up.


"I just prefer Jeremy Toulalan because of his attitude."


Diarra's recalcitrant behaviour is not the only problem for
Houllier as he will be missing both the suspended Milan Baros and
the injured Karim Benzema as attacking options while two other
strikers, Fred and Sylvain Wiltord, had to be rested on Thursday.


Sedan might be in dire risk of relegation but the 'Wild Boars'
have been putting up a brave fight to avoid that fate having gone
unbeaten for six matches before losing to Toulouse last weekend.


Despite that late burst of form, Lyon remain hot favourites to
seal the title this weekend.


Saturday:


Bordeaux v Paris SG, Le Mans v Rennes, Lille v Sochaux, Lorient v
Monaco, Nantes v Lens, Toulouse v Auxerre, Troyes v Nancy,
Valenciennes v Marseille


Sunday:


Nice v St-Etienne, Lyon v Sedan

