

Embattled Tour de France winner Floyd Landis' bid to clear his
name of doping allegations was dealt a setback when an
arbitration panel ruled that officials could re-test seven urine
samples.


In a release issued through his New York spokesperson Michael
Henson, Landis confirmed that the the US Anti-Doping Agency
(USADA), which is prosecuting the case against him, will conduct
tests on urine samples which had already been declared clean.


Furthermore, Landis is angered that the new tests are to be
carried out at the French laboatory which processed his original,
and disputed, postive test.


Landis has charged the Labaratoire National Depistage de Dopage's
(LNDD) laboratory at Chatenay-Malabry with mis-handling his
original samples.


"Putting aside the fact that the retesting shows just how far
USADA will go in breaking its own rules to support its 'win at
all costs' mentality, I'm amazed that they insist on having the
LNDD test these samples," said Landis, who would prefer the
samples to be tested at the University of California at Los
Angeles accredited laboratory.


At the least, Landis said, he will request that all the samples
scheduled for testing be split and also tested at a "neutral and
uncompromised facility".


USADA is also seeking financial records, medical reports and
other documents from Landis in the case against him. Specifically
they are looking for names of donors of more than 250 dollars.


The ruling was made three weeks ago but only released Wednesday,
according to the Los Angeles Times.


USADA said the new tests were needed because the procedure would
be more rigorous than before.


Landis called the requests "un-American."


"USADA clearly thinks that they're above the law," Landis said.
"And that's precisely why we've been asking our elected
representatives to look into USADA's unfair and un-American
tactics."


Landis said he is considering appealing the ruling. A hearing
before the arbitration panel is scheduled for May 14 in Los
Angeles.


Landis, 31, could be stripped of his Tour de France victory and
given a two-year ban.


The American, whose positive test from stage 17 of the 2006 race
prompted the collapse of his Phonak team, also faces a French
government probe but that has been delayed until after the
inquiry following his promise not to race in France this year,
ending any chance to defend his title.

