

Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak goes to Paris on Sunday to bid
farewell to his long-time friend, outgoing President Jacques
Chirac, and sound out potential successors on the future of
France's "Arab policy."


The last-minute visit represents, from Cairo's view, a chance for
Mubarak to salute a fellow statesman with whom he has had at
least 30 official meetings over the past three decades and
countless telephone conversations.


"It is a rare gesture of political friendship," said Mustafa
Kamal el-Sayyed, a political scientist with the American
University in Cairo.


The meeting between the two ageing leaders comes as France's and
Egypt's influence in the troubled Middle East is seen as slipping
back.


Coming from the same generation, the two leaders have always
publicly presented remarkably similar analyses of the ongoing
crises in the Middle East, including the Palestinian question and
the war in Iraq.


On his latest visit to Egypt last year, Chirac even remarked at a
news conference that the two leaders had the exact same view on
all matters in the region, and that either leader could take the
other's questions.


"A nearly perfect case of political agreement in the French
political tradition of Charles de Gaulle, including opposition to
the United States," said Sayyed, describing their long
relationship.


With Francois Mitterrand, there was a similar degree of shared
views, to the extent that France's former socialist president
chose to spend his last Christmas in the southern Nile city of
Aswan at Mubarak's invitation.


He died of cancer two weeks later.


When Chirac succeeded Mitterrand, Mubarak was significantly the
first foreign leader to be received at the Elysee in Paris,
confirming the importance of Egypt as a key player in the Arab
world.


Mubarak is also one of the last of a generation of Arab leaders
with whom Chirac has close personal links, following the passing
of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and the murder of former
Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


Even more unexpected than Sunday's visit, however, is the
Egyptian president's decision to meet with the aspirant to
Chirac's mantle, right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy.


Scheduled meetings with socialist candidate Segolene Royal and
centrist Francois Bayrou were reported in Egypt's top-selling
state-owned daily Al-Ahram but not yet immediately confirmed.


"With the departure of Chirac, it is the end of an era and there
is worry about the future," said Antoine Basbous, director of the
Paris-based Observatoire des Pays Arabes.


"French Arab policy no longer makes any sense," he added. "The
Arab world is very divided and Islam, and its variant Islamism,
has become the axis around which a new policy must be
formulated."


Israel and the Palestinian question, Iraq, Iran, Lebanon -- to
which France is especially close -- and of course the French-
speaking countries of North Africa have barely featured in the
presidential campaign.


"The main candidates seem unfamiliar with these questions and
they don't want to take risks," said Sayyed, noting that the
Egyptian press is laying its bets on Sarkozy to win the second
round of voting on May 6.


Unlike the others, he is at least not unknown in Egypt, following
his 2003 trip to see the grand sheikh of Al-Azhar, Mohammed
Sayyed Tantawi, over a controversial French law banning the
Islamic headscarf in schools.


Sarkozy, however, is also seen by the Egyptian press as leaning
closer to Israel and the United States than Chirac.


During the riots in France's suburbs in 2005 when Sarkozy was
interior minister, Mohammed Abul Hamid of the state-owned daily
Gomhuriya wrote "for those who don't know, Sarkozy is Jewish," in
reference to his mother's Jewish father.


While Mubarak has never met Sarkozy, he has met rival candidate
Royal during a trip to Paris in December.


"Only Mubarak is still moving in this region," she said at the
time, a statement dramatically at odds with the Egyptian
opposition's contention that the ageing president is a symbol of
stagnation.

