

The funeral of Asia's richest woman, Hong Kong tycoon Nina Wang,
has been set for April 18, according to a death notice published
on Friday.


The notice carried in several newspapers said a memorial vigil
would be held on Tuesday afternoon followed by a funeral the next
day.


An obituary that ran alongside the death notice also confirmed
for the first time that Wang died last week from an unspecified
cancer. She was 69.


It said she was "shocked" to discover she had been diagnosed with
cancer in 2004 during a routine health check and immediately
sought treatment from  a hospital affiliated with Harvard Medical
School.


"Unfortunately, she could not find a cure although she was
treated by the world's renowned doctors and with a variety of the
most advanced medicines," read the obituary signed by the
employees of her Chinachem real estate empire.


It also praised the Shanghai-born tycoon's determination to build
Chinachem into a successful company since the disappearance of
her husband, Teddy Wang, in 1990 after being kidnapped.


His body was never found and he was declared dead nine years
later. Nina Wang steadfastly refused to believe he was dead and
her death notice was placed in the name of her husband.


It remains a mystery as to who will inherit Wang's fortune
estimated at 4.2 billion US dollars.


Wang, who famously sported mini-skirts and pig-tails well into
her 60s, died leaving no heirs and never publicly named a
beneficiary.


Her lawyer Jonathan Midgely is reported to have said she left her
fortune to just one person, but would not reveal the identity of
this person until at least after her funeral.


Wang, who died on April 3, was Asia's richest woman and nicknamed
"Little Sweetie" for her trademark pigtails resembling a Japanese
comic character.


The famously frugal tycoon, who preferred wearing discounted
clothes and eating fast-food, reportedly will get a no-expense-
spared send-off. Her family is spending millions of dollars on
flowers for the expected lavish funeral.

