

Patrice Evra has warned his  Manchester United team-mates that
the season could still end in tears if they  allow the euphoria
of their AS Roma triumph go to their heads.


Four days after their awesome 7-1 Champions League defeat of the
Italians sent shockwaves across Europe, United face Watford in
the semi-final of the FA Cup at Villa Park on Saturday.


Sir Alex Ferguson's treble-chasing side are clear favourites to
beat the Premiership's bottom club as they look to win the Cup
for a record 12th time.


But Senegal international left-back Evra insists the Premiership
leaders are in a ''dangerous" position as they have won nothing
despite putting themselves in a strong position to win the title,
Champions League and FA Cup.


"It will be a tough game on Saturday," said Evra, who scored
United's seventh and final goal in midweek.


"We have to recover from beating Roma because everyone has a lot
of confidence.


"That means it is dangerous at the moment because everyone will
have seen that we won 7-1 and says that we are going to win the
Champions League.


"We have to concentrate and work hard to finish off the season
well.


"We are favourites to beat Watford, but that is why it is
dangerous. Everyone now is saying United are a big team who can
win everything.


"This is a most important season and we have to concentrate and
work hard because it is not finished.


"The danger is we could still win nothing and that would make it
a bad season."


Evra was aged just 18 when Ferguson last led United to the Treble
in 1999. The former Monaco and Nice player said it would be
"unbelievable" if United finished the season with three trophies
in the cabinet next month.


But the 25-year-old is keeping his feet firmly on the ground.


"To end up with nothing this season would be bad," added Evra.


"To win three trophies would be unbelievable.


"Ryan Giggs and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer tell us that this team is
very strong - it is young and quick with good character.


"So we have a lot of good strengths, but you just don't know what
will happen in football.


"Watford is another game and we have to recover. We scored seven
goals and it was beautiful against Roma, but it will be a hard
game against Watford."


A staggering 55 points divide United and Watford in the table
with Aidy Boothroyd's under-dogs requiring a miracle to avoid
relegation.


Even Boothroyd admitted a Watford win over United would be akin
to 'a man landing on the moon'.


"If all our players are at ten out of ten on the day, you never
know," said Boothroyd, who witnessed United's awesome win over
Roma.


"I stopped taking notes and started clapping," he said. "It was a
privilege to be there - to score seven goals in a Champions
League game is absolutely mind- blowing.


"It would be a major shock if we won - up there with a man
landing on the moon. "But a man has done that, so anything is
possible. We have a game plan for containing them and we have to
make sure that when we get chances we take them.


"If United play like they did against Roma, we wouldn't have a
chance," he said.


"People might say United's result against Roma was a one-off, but
they have had several one-offs this season. They are a truly
wonderful side."

