

Garbage collector Saad Kamal Farhud is always scared, dodging
bombs and bullets to shift the filth of Baghdad for a pittance.
Yet he says things have improved since thousands of troops
launched a crackdown.


"I'm frightened every day," says the 30-year-old driver who
begins his daily round of the bins on the west bank of the Tigris
River, picking his way through homemade but lethal booby traps
and bursts of gunfire.


"No one taught me how to spot the roadside bombs but I've learnt
to pick out the trip wires that set them off," confides the
married father-of-two, already lucky enough to have escaped one
explosion.


Saad says he has been fired on several times in Allawi, a
neighbourhood in the Karkh district in the heart of the battle-
scared Iraqi capital where tens of thousands of civilians have
been killed in the past four years.


"I used to live there... I'm scared every time I go there. The
people are weird. Some of them have come up and said: 'Don't come
to collect the rubbish any more.' They don't want their district
to be clean," he says.


"Homemade bombs are often hidden under the bins or rubbish. So
the insurgents don't want us to clean up and they shoot at our
workers," explains 43-year-old Mohammed Nuri, an employee of
Baghdad Municipality, who heads the rubbish collection in the
district.


Another explanation left unsaid, however, is that at least many
of Baghdad's municipal dustmen, like Saad, are Shiites and some
of the districts they steer their dumpster trucks through are
predominantly Sunni.


It was sectarian warfare and militias cleansing neighbourhoods
into homogenous Shiite and Sunni zones that forced the United
States to change strategy and divert tens and thousands of Iraqi
and American troops to Baghdad.


But two months later, dustmen say they no longer venture into
some areas, such as the southern Sunni insurgent bastion of
Saidiyah.


In violent Sunni areas such as Al-Jamiaa, Ameriyah, Ghazaliyah
and Hadel, residents pay people from their own pocket to clean up
the streets and sweep the litter, refuse workers claim.


Some dustmen's vans are accompanied by gunmen carrying
Kalashnikov rifles. The municipal refuse collection headquarters
is guarded by armed police.


"Five of our workers have died," says Talal Karim, who is
responsible for trucks and equipment used by a team of around 400
people. "Recently one worker was killed by a mortar round while
he was working."


"One of my colleagues was shot with four bullets six months ago,"
says Saad.


"Despite everything, we are the only service that has never
stopped working from the fall of Baghdad until today," says Nuri
with pride.


Once the rubbish has been scooped up, the trucks head out to one
of two main dumps outside Baghdad -- Taji, 30 kilometres (almost
20 miles) to the north and Husseniyah, 15 kilometres to the
northeast.


"The road frightens us. When the situation is really too
dangerous, there are temporary dumps where we dump the rubbish.
But these days, with the security plan I have to say things have
got a lot better," says Saad.


"We hope things will continue that way."


Iraqi and US military officials say execution-style killings have
fallen in Baghdad since the crackdown was launched on February
14.


US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell said such
killings were down 60 percent between "the last week of March and
first (week of) April", compared to a similar period of the month
before.


Iraqi Brigadier General Qassim Atta Mussawi has said an average
of eight bodies are found on a daily basis compared to the dozens
of handcuffed and blindfolded corpses of men riddled with bullets
found everyday on Baghdad's streets before the crackdown.


But there is little prospect of improvement on the financial
front. Saad, who has three hungry mouths to feed, earns 168,000
dinars (130 dollars) a month for working from 7:00 am until 2:00
pm six days a week.


"That doesn't give me much to live on. Sometimes I need to pay
4,000 dinars (three dollars) to get to work," because he lives in
Shuala in northern Baghdad.


Working conditions are poor. There are no showers for the workers
and the equipment is outdated.


"About half the equipment was looted after the fall of Baghdad.
Things are difficult. Our trucks are old and there aren't
enough," says Talal.


Overflowing rubbish dumps littered across wasteland, raw sewage
and people setting fire to trash have become common sights in
Baghdad.

