

A spokeswoman for pop star Madonna confirmed Friday that the pop
star was going to Malawi over the weekend, but denied a newspaper
report that it was to adopt another child from the impoverished
African nation.


Citing unnamed sources, the Sun tabloid in London said Madonna
was intent on adopting three-year-old girl Grace after watching a
documentary about a child care home for orphans in the country,
despite a storm of controversy over her efforts to adopt a
Malawian boy last year.


"Madonna is going to Africa to continue her work with the Raising
Malawi organisation," the star's spokeswoman Liz Rosenberg said.


"She is overseeing the building of a children's healthcare
centre. She is absolutely not adopting another baby."


The pop star, 48, sparked a furore late last year when she and
her husband Guy Ritchie, secured a temporary 18-month custody
order from the Malawi courts for baby boy David Banda.


The couple hope to formally adopt him. They have two other
children -- 10-year- old Lourdes and Rocco, six.


But the granting of the order, which enabled Madonna to take
Banda out of Malawi last year, sparked heated debate about
adoption laws in a country where the number of orphans is surging
as a result of AIDS.


A legal challenge is now underway from rights groups who claim
that existing legislation in Malawi does not allow for
international adoption.


"Madonna saw a film of children at a place called The Consol
Home," The Sun quoted an unidentified source said to be close to
the star as saying.


"She spotted a beautiful girl called Grace who lit the room with
her smile, and fell head over heels for her. Madonna kept saying,
'That girl has so much love in her. I want to help her achieve
her potential'," the source said.


"But adoption officials are being very strict after uproar when
Madonna adopted David. They know Grace is her first choice, but
have insisted she looks at other girls first -- and that the
final decision is theirs."


David's father, Yohane Banda, was initially quoted as saying he
did not realise his son would be taken out of the country for
good, but later said he supported the adoption.


"It was always Madonna's intention to adopt two orphans from
Malawi -- a boy and a girl. Grace is healthy, stunning, and has
no living relatives. It was the fact David's dad Yohane was alive
and well that caused most of the problems last time," the source
told The Sun.

