

Ace national hunt jockey Tony McCoy won the Irish Grand National
on Monday but here on Saturday he will be looking for the one
great prize to elude him - the real 'McCoy' in terms of Grand
Nationals over the famed Aintree fences.


The Northern Irishman has gone agonisingly close in the past
notably with three thirds in the race, twice on Blowing Wind
(2001 and 2002) and Clan Royal finishing last year, and in 2005
he looked to be coasting on Clan Royal when he was unluckily
taken out of the race by a riderless horse.


McCoy - who is not the first of many great jockeys to experience
the Aintree heartbreak with among others Jonjo O'Neill, John
Francome and Peter Scudamore drawing a blank - has discarded Clan
Royal this time round feeling that at 12 -years-old his best days
are behind him.


Instead McCoy has gone for another of owner JP McManus' runners,
the French- trained L'Ami who ran a respectable seventh in the
Cheltenham Gold Cup last month.


However McCoy believes that he may yet again miss out on probably
the most lusted after prize in national hunt racing as if L'Ami
is to win it would be under the highest weight (11 stone 8
pounds) since the legendary Red Rum won in 1977.


"It's a big ask trying to defy 11st 8lb in the National, but we
got lucky for JP McManus with Butler's Cabin (the winner of the
Irish National), so we can but give it our best shot again and
hope for the best," said the 32-year-old.


L'Ami's trainer Francois Doumen has decided to fit cheekpieces on
him as he suspects that the eight-year-old was lazing around a
bit at the business end of the Gold Cup.


"He was looking too fresh after Cheltenham and I suspect it was
down to laziness.


"He is now in magnificent form."


Ironically the horse that may stop McCoy and L'Ami comes from
Doumen's stable as well - in the form of the French horse's full
brother Kelami.


Kelami's owners have already tasted victory in the National -
with Amberleigh House in 2004 when Kelami came down at the first
- as has his charismatic jockey Mick Fitzgerald.


Another win for the Irishman - who described his victory on Rough
Quest in 1996 as being 'better than sex' - would be an emotional
one as he is due to retire at the end of the season.


Doumen - who has won the Gold Cup and the King George VI Chase
but never the National - is finding it hard to pick which of the
brothers has the better chance.


"L'Ami has quite a bit of weight so maybe the difference between
the two will allow Kelami to close the gap on his brother.


"Kelami is a year older and it is very seldom you see two full
brothers in the same Grand National," said the silver haired
handler.


The Irish too will fancy their chances of continuing their good
run in the race - they have five of the last eight winners - and
both the 2005 and 2006 champions Hedgehunter and
Numbersixvalverde are back again.


Hedgehunter had to give second best to Numbersixvalverde last
year but his trainer Willie Mullins is confident of another big
run from his veteran.


"I think he can run another big race," said Mullins, who also
fancies another of his runners Bothar Na.


"He (Hedgehunter) loves it at Aintree and jumps for fun," added
Mullins of his top weight.


Perhaps the liveliest of the outsiders could prove to be
Monkherhostin, who ran a cracking trial for the National when he
finished fourth in the Gold Cup, a race that has often proved the
springboard for success at Aintree.


However McCoy will be hoping that for once his luck holds and he
finally breaks that Grand National jinx.

