

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao took his milestone Japan visit to
Kyoto on Friday, where he was to pitch a baseball and mingle in
public in events designed to add a human touch to warming
political relations.


After a day of high-profile politics Thursday when he called for
a new era in bilateral ties, Friday's trip offered a photo-op
finale to the first visit to Japan by a Chinese leader in seven
years.


He arrived in this ancient city Kyoto to the sound of traditional
Japanese harps and was scheduled to join a tea ceremony.


Wen was due later to meet a family of farmers and speak to
students who are studying Chinese, before throwing a baseball
pitch to show off his skills at Japan's national pastime.


"A lot of Japanese people say we have succeeded in melting the
ice" between the two countries, Wen told reporters as he left
Tokyo.


In his address Thursday to the Japanese parliament, the first by
a Chinese leader for 22 years and which was broadcast live in
both countries, Wen called for their nations to look ahead
without forgetting Japan's past aggression.


Before speaking to the Diet he tried his hand at personal
diplomacy, going for a morning jog in a popular park in Tokyo,
chatting with people and showing off some tai chi moves.


"The Japanese people I met this morning expressed their great
joy" at the warming relations, he told a reception Thursday
evening marking 35 years since the Asian giants re-established
diplomatic ties.


"There have been twists and turns in the history of the two
nations but the current friendly ties of China and Japan are
befitting of these times."


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has worked to improve
ties since taking over last year, responded that Wen "made a
wonderful speech in the Diet which will be remembered throughout
history."


"I strongly believe that the understanding between the Japanese
and Chinese peoples will further improve and the dialogue will
continue," Abe said, ending his remarks by saying "xie xie," or
"thank you," in Chinese.


The image was a far cry from just two years ago, when angry
Chinese crowds smashed the windows of Japanese consulates and
shops to denounce a perceived failure by Tokyo to atone for the
past.


But their economies are increasingly interlinked, with Japanese
companies relying on its neighbour as a source both of abundant
labour and middle-class consumers.


Analysts said both countries saw a need for stability as they
seek larger global roles. China wants to showcase its clout in
next year's Olympic Games hosted by Beijing while Japan is
struggling to muster support for a permanent seat on the UN
Security Council.


Hidenori Ijiri, an East Asia expert at the Tokyo University of
Foreign Studies, said the two sides realised they had to improve
the relationship at the level of their publics as well as their
governments.


"China needs a stable relationship with Japan for the sake of its
growth," Ijiri said. "Improving Japanese sentiment towards China
would also help ease the anti- Japanese sentiment back home."


Relations were badly strained during the 2001-2006 premiership of
Japan's Junichiro Koizumi, who repeatedly visited a war shrine
that Beijing and Seoul associate with imperialism.


Abe, whose grandfather was a cabinet minister in World War II, is
known as a hardliner on history issues.


But he has maintained strategic silence on whether he would visit
the same Yasukuni shrine as premier and travelled to Beijing in
October just days after succeeding Koizumi.

