

Amateur news videos are tops on British TV, US viewers love a
quiz based on primary school texts and German television is
running a soap about a 1958 girls' school -- this year's trend in
TV content is for more viewer participation and streamlined
content.


"TV used to be a mirror, but it's become a one-way mirror with
the viewer at the centre," said Pascale Josephe, of IMCA
(International Media Consultant Associes), one of three market
research firms behind a study of 2006-2007 international TV
trends released ahead of next week's MIPTV/MILIA trade show.


According to the study by IMCA, Mediametrie and NOTA (New On The
Air), simplicity and efficiency are the key concepts driving TV
content.


The content itself aims to be readily understood by all, transmit
basic values, provide elementary knowledge and give ordinary life
a bit of spunk.


The most important player in most of the shows popular in nine
key countries surveyed is the viewer, who is the "the author, the
actor and the citizen," the study says.


Britain's "Homemade" on Channel 4 for example is entirely made up
of amateur videos selected on Internet, while ITV1's "I was there
- the people's review" features news filmed by viewers on cameras
or cellphones.


In France, bracing for a key presidential election this month and
next, a show enabling 100 viewers on the set to quiz the
candidates -- "I have a question to ask" -- has been so
successful that Spain's state channel TVE1 has adapted it too.


"These programmes are a way of living in the moment," Josephe
said.


Game shows meanwhile are being dumbed down, with intuition more
important than knowledge. In NBC's "Identity" candidates have to
guess the characteristics of 12 unknown people, while Fox's "Are
you smarter than a 5th grader?" is a quiz based on primary school
manuals.


Candidates can even ask school children on the set for help or
cheat by copying.


Traditional teaching methods too are back in the limelight.
"Never did me any harm" on Britain's Channel 4 takes four
families back in time so their children can taste life in the
pre-hitech era. Germany's "Die Brauteschule" is set in a girls'
boarding school in 1958.


"The trend is to go back to the values of the past," Josephe
added.


Food shows -- such as Spain's "Soy lo que como" or BBC2's "Grow
your own veg" -- are back-to-basics educational, as are a host of
cultural programmes such as France 3's "L'Heure de l'Opera".


Sex, in increasingly hot mode, continues to top the charts, with
"Dirt" in the United States or Britain's "Bonkers", about the
daily life of a family whose members are all sexually obsessed.


Reality shows are taking a humane twist, promoting ideals such as
tolerance, generosity, sharing and multiculturalism, though the
plots are far from heavenly.


Channel 4's "The Secret Millionaire" sees a millionaire in search
of a poor district where he can go slumming for a week while in
The Netherlands' "Liefde op het tweede gezicht" a group of eight
handicapped people are in search of the ideal partner.


The survey looked at 414 new programmes launched in Australia,
Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, The Netherlands
and the United States.

