

Australia captain Ricky Ponting has added his voice to those
demanding that the World Cup be shortened from its current 47-day
marathon.


"I am sure that some positive things have been said about this
event this time around," said Ponting.


"In the future it can be compressed a little bit and make a
better World Cup next time."


Ponting's call comes just two days after teammate Mathhew Hayden
also called for the World Cup to be trimmed and on the same day
that Chris Dehring, the chief executive of the World Cup in the
Caribbean, recognised that the event was too drawn out.


Ponting admitted, however, that finding a solution to the problem
would not be easy.


"Trying to programe the World Cup and make it as short as
possible must be a logistical nightmare, especially in a place
like the West Indies where we are travelling all around nine
different countries," said the Australian skipper.


"So if you look at it from that point of view, I wouldn't like to
be in the shoes of the people who are trying to organise this
type of event."


The International Cricket Council (ICC) has been criticised for
the duration of the event. The current World Cup, which started
on March 13 and ends with the final on April 28, covers 47 days
and takes in 51 matches.


Huge gaps between matches have also annoyed some teams.


Hosts West Indies are playing just one game in the space of 18
days during the second round Super Eights.


Ponting admitted the gaps, which saw Australia play England after
an eight-day break and then face another four days rest before
facing Ireland on Friday, were unusual.


"It is unusual in a one-day event that you might be spending six
and seven days between games, but somehow professional sportsmen
learn how to cope with it the best you can and make sure when the
games come around you are right and ready to go.


"There is no doubt it is a long event."


Earlier Thursday, Dehring conceded the seven-week tournament is
too long but said shortening it would have risked important
matches being washed out.


He said the next World Cup, to be held on the subcontinent in
2011, might be abridged.


"One of the shortfalls of the last World Cup in South Africa was
that rain played such an important factor," Dehring told the
Courier-Mail in Australia.


"We decided this time to make sure you had adequate rain days so
there is a rain day for every game.


"But, of course, that is going to elongate the tournament. It is
a difficult balancing act but you would always prefer a shorter
event. It is difficult to maintain momentum in an event over such
a long period.


"We would have preferred a shorter event had it been possible,
but to do that there would not have been rain days. I think they
may change it next time."


Last week, ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed defended the length
of the World Cup.


"We are criticised sometimes because there is too much cricket
and we are criticised here because some of the breaks between two
matches are too long," said Speed.


"The team that wins this tournament will play 11 matches in 47
days - something like a match every four days - so there are
generally healthy breaks between matches."

