

Apple Inc. said on Thursday it is delaying the release of its new
Leopard operating system in order to get its much-ballyhooed
iPhone to market in June as promised.


Apple originally planned to unleash the Leopard operating system
for its Macintosh computers in trademark theatrical style at its
Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco in June.


Software engineers and quality assurance teams were shifted from
working on Leopard to crafting and testing the iPhone, according
to the Cupertino, California-based company.


"iPhone contains the most sophisticated software ever shipped on
a mobile device, and finishing it on time has not come without a
price," Apple said in a statement.


"Life often presents tradeoffs and, in this case, we're sure
we've made the right one."


Apple chief executive Steve Jobs in January unveiled the iPhone,
a new mobile phone that can also be used as a digital music
player and camera.


Apple said its heralded Leopard operating system will be finished
by June but will still be in the testing phase. Leopard should
ship in October, according to Apple.


"If they were going to slip a project, it was better they slip
Leopard rather than iPhone," said analyst Michael Gartenberg of
Jupiter Research.


"It is not likely to be a big issue at all. It does tend to be a
little embarrassing for them, but that is in the intrinsic nature
of trying to deliver a complex operating system and the iPhone
simultaneously."


Macintosh computers represent less than five percent of the
global market and owners tend toward cultish loyalty that makes
it likely they will tolerate a delay in the release of Leopard
despite any disappointment, analysts said.


The iPhone system is built on the Leopard, or Mac OS X, operating
system so it is natural for the projects to be interdependent at
Apple, according to Gartenberg.


"Any time you do a complex operating system release and you give
a target date you are bound to run the risk of missing it,"
Gartenberg said. "These kinds of things are inevitable and,
knowing Apple's track record, it wouldn't surprise me if they
shipped Leopard before October."

