

A deaf, black woman was convicted Thursday by an all-white jury
of the murder and chain saw dismemberment of a heterosexual deaf
woman she believed was trying to break up her lesbian romance.


The same jury that convicted Daphne Wright, 43, could soon make
her the first woman on South Dakota's death row. The largely
rural state hasn't executed a prisoner in more than 60 years.


Wright wiped away tears after the guilty verdict was read. The
family of victim Darlene VanderGiesen, 42, held hands in court
and showed little emotion.


The county coroner ruled VanderGiesen died of blunt force trauma
to her head, perhaps from a shovel or baseball bat, and/or
suffocation from a transparent plastic bag tied tightly around
her head.


Police never found the murder weapon, but were able to present
extensive physical and circumstantial evidence placing the victim
in Wright's vehicle and home.


Flecks of VanderGiesen's bone and tissue were found hidden under
a coat of fresh paint in Wright's basement, where the smell of
gasoline lingered days after VanderGiesen's charred dismembered
body was left in a nearby Dumpster and in a steep ravine 30
kilometers (20 miles) away, police testified.


Minnehaha County State's Attorney Dave Nelson said in closing
arguments Wednesday that in a way, DNA testing allowed the victim
to testify.


"Through the scraping from the basement wall, she said to you, I
was there. I was in the defendant's home. I was with her when I
was taken apart," he said.


Jurors heard testimony that Wright waited two days after the
killing to buy the chain saw because she didn't have enough
money.


To demonstrate how that saw was actually used on the body, the
coroner experimented on a 200-pound pig and presented side-by-
side photographs of skin and bone from the bodies of both the pig
and VanderGiesen showing similar markings.


A judge ruled that it would be prejudicial to allow prosecutors
to show jurors the video of the pig dismemberment.


VanderGiesen's body had been chopped above the knees and above
the hips. Witnesses said the intact upper body and head was also
set on fire with a liquid accelerant.


Prosecutors said Wright wrapped the remains in bedding and trash
bags, carried them to her vehicle and drove to a commercial
Dumpster.


"The defendant was able to lift (the victim's) 85-pound pelvis up
over and into the Dumpster, but she just couldn't quite handle on
her own the rest of Darlene's body," Nelson said.


That's why, he said, Wright drove 20 miles and used a rope to
drag the woman's upper body and head into a roadside ravine,
where it was discovered six weeks later, the exposed right hand
and arm apparently gnawed by animals.


The legs and pelvis had been found at the city landfill within
two weeks of the killing.


Police were led to Wright after VanderGiesen's sister showed them
several insulting e-mails Wright had sent to her rival a week
before she disappeared.


The messages, which Wright admitted signing with a pseudonym,
described VanderGiesen as ugly, stupid, fat and a troublemaker,
and asked her to stay away from the apartments where her
girlfriend, Sallie Collins, lived.


Wright, who presented conflicting statements to police, is the
last person known to have seen the victim alive.


The defense had questioned the fairness of the trial because no
one in the pool of 150 perspective jurors was African-American.
Just 1.5 percent of Minnehaha County residents are black.


A sentencing hearing will begin on Tuesday.

