

The United States on Thursday denounced a suicide bombing that
bloodied Iraq's parliament complex, shook Baghdad's fortress-like
Green Zone, and rattled wary optimism about a US-led crackdown.


Officials in Washington struggled to explain the staggering
breach inside the heavily guarded area, blaming it on the
bomber's ferocity rather than on failures in the three-month-old
security push.


"I strongly condemn the action. It reminds us, though, that there
is an enemy willing to bomb innocent people and a symbol of
democracy," President George W. Bush told reporters after the
Green Zone blast killed eight and wounded at least 23.


"Our hearts go out to those who suffered as a result of this
bombing. Our message to the Iraqi government is we stand with you
as you take the steps necessary to, not only reconcile
politically, but also put a security force in place that is able
to deal with these kind of people," he said.


An Iraqi security official said two lawmakers and a parliamentary
official were among the dead and 20 people were wounded, around
half of them MPs, when a suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt
struck the Iraqi parliament canteen.


US military commander Major General William Caldwell later put
the death toll at eight with another 23 wounded, giving no
further details.


"It's very troubling that this happened inside the Green Zone.
And we're going to work to make sure that, one, we find out how
it happened and that it doesn't happen again," said Bush
spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Asked if the blast raised questions about the success of the US-
led Baghdad security plan, White House national security
spokesman Gordon Johndroe replied: "No, I think it shows the
determination of the terrorists and extremists."


At the State Department, spokesman Sean McCormack said that US
officials visit the bloodied building "on a regular basis" but
that it was unclear whether any were there at the time of the
attack.


The strike came four years after the fall of Saddam Hussein's
regime and three months after Washington launched a last-ditch
attempt to quell sectarian violence and crush extremists in Iraq.


McCormack said it was critical "to ensure that this (Iraq's
parliament) is a place where parliamentarians and those working
on behalf of the Iraqi government can do what they need to do in
a safe, secure atmosphere."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice blamed the attack on "the
terrorists and those who wish to stop the Iraqi people from
having a future that would be based on democracy and stability."


Rice's comments came as she met with Republican Senator John
McCain, a 2008 presidential hopeful who has drawn criticism for
insisting that parts of Baghdad are safe enough for westerners to
walk unescorted.


Rice sought to contain worries the blast may be a sign that a
months-old security plan that deployed thousands more US troops
in the Iraqi capital may never quell deadly sectarian violence.


"There will be good days and bad days," Rice said. "But the
commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and working to
try to make the population more secure."


McCain said the attack should not deter the United States from
pursuing its security surge, saying the US public should expect
"more spectacular attacks" on the Green Zone in order to cripple
support for the unpopular war.


"But I don't think that that should change the larger picture
which means we're achieving some small successes already with the
strategy being employed," the lawmaker said.


Later, after meeting with Bush, US national security adviser
Stephen Hadley, and other officials at the White House, McCain
downplayed the severity of the breach, saying: "Suicide bombings
are very, very difficult to counter.


"But there is now some stability in some of the areas of Baghdad.
In Anbar province there's been some progress and we hope and pray
that that will continue," he said.

