

Key events since the outbreak of Lebanon's 15-year civil war:


1975-1990: Lebanon is embroiled in a civil war which feeds on the
country's numerous political, ethnic and religious divides.
Syrian troops intervene in 1976, while Israel mounts an invasion
from the south in 1982.


A Western peacekeeping intervention ends disastrously in 1983
when suicide bombers kill almost 300 US and French troops.


2000: Under pressure from the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah
organisation, Israel finally pulls out of southern Lebanon.


2004: With Syrian troops still in much of Lebanon, the UN
Security Council passes a resolution calling for their
withdrawal. Syria and Iran are the main backers of Hezbollah,
whose forces control the south and frequently clash with Israeli
forces.


2005: Rafiq Hariri, a popular former prime minister, is killed in
a huge bomb blast in Beirut on February 14. Syria, widely blamed
for the attack, agrees to pull out its remaining troops, which
leave in April.


A new government for the first time includes Hezbollah, which the
United States considers a terrorist organisation.


A series of terrorist attacks raises fears of a new civil war,
while a report commissioned by the UN points the finger at Syria
for the Hariri assassination.


2006: Hezbollah forces capture two Israeli soldiers in a clash on
the  border with Israel. Israel decides on massive retaliation,
which the United States refuses to condemn, and the resulting
war, in July and August, leaves more than 1,200 people dead, most
of them in southern Lebanon.


After a ceasefire, Israel withdraws and a strengthened United
Nations force is deployed in southern Lebanon.


In November six pro-Syrian ministers, five of whom are from
Hezbollah, quit the Lebanese government, leaving it in effect
powerless.


Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah demands either new elections,
or an increased role for his opposition party in government.


In December, the pro-Syrian opposition holds a massive protest in
Beirut, and begins an indefinite sit-in at the seat of
government.


2007: Three people are killed in clashes on January 23 during a
one-day general strike called by opposition groups and unions.


Two days later, four more people are killed in fighting between
pro- and anti- government demonstrators, overshadowing a Paris
aid conference where donors pledge 7.6 billion dollars for
reconstruction.


With tension rising on the eve of the second anniversary of
Hariri's assassination, three people are killed in the bombing of
two buses in a Christian area near Beirut.


Lebanon sends two separate delegations to the Arab summit in
Riyadh at the end of March.

