

Spanish clubs repeated the feat of English clubs in the Champions
League earlier this week by booking three of the final four
berths in the UEFA Cup on Thursday.


Holders Sevilla led the way as they held Spurs 2-2 to progress
4-3 on aggregate and edge nearer to becoming only the second side
to retain the trophy - the other being Real Madrid.


Barcelona's lesser known club, Espanyol, also went through with a
tremendous 0-0 draw away at Benfica - winning 3-2 on aggregate -
while Osasuna beat Bayer Leverkusen 1-0 at home to wrap up a
surprising but comfortable 4-0 aggregate win.


However Leverkusen's German rivals Werder Bremen ensured there
was some non- Spanish representation as they cruised to an
impressive 4-1 win over Dutch side AZ Alkmaar with German
international striker Miroslav Klose ending his goal drought of
1158 minutes and finishing with a double.


Sevilla got a dream start with two goals in the first 10 minutes
- including one from former Spurs marksman Fredi Kanoute - and
even though Spurs hit back with two in the second-half the
English side had left themselves with too much to do.


However Sevilla's enterprising coach Juande Ramos - who has been
touted as a potential replacement for Jose Mourinho should he
leave Chelsea in the summer - admitted there had been slight
moment of uneasiness.


"It was very clear we made things a bit difficult for ourselves
after the second goal but we were never in any real danger of
losing the match," said Ramos.


"The first minutes of the match are always very important and I
think my team showed Tottenham we had clear intentions to score
and play a good match."


Spurs manager Martin Jol admitted they had shot themselves in the
foot as he saw his side crash out of a cup competition for the
third time this season when they were within sight of the final.


"I don't know if the best team won but of course Sevilla is a
good team but it is easier when you don't give away goals and
they certainly rocked us," said the Dutchman.


"However if you consider the penalty awarded against us last week
we were unlucky but we could have done better today.


"In the second-half we won against a team that had rocked us
early on and beat them 2-0."


However Jol insisted his team has improved this season despite
becoming the nearly men of cup competitions and failing to mount
a challenge for the Premiership title.


"I felt we achieved a lot this year," said the former no-nonsense
Dutch international midfielder.


Osasuna may be 14th in the Spanish championship but they made
light of that to grind out a 1-0 win over Leverkusen with Juanlu
Gomez wrapping up affairs in the 62nd minute and landing his side
their first ever semi-final spot in the competition.


Espanyol are five places above Osasuna but were fortunate to
withstand a second- half onslaught by Benfica, who had looked to
be in the box seat after coming back from 3-0 down last week in
Spain to lose 3-2.


However, Nuno Gomez was defied by a brilliant save from Gorka
Iraizoz and then two of his team-mates including veteran Rui
Costa saw their efforts denied by the woodwork to keep alive
Espanyol's dreams of reaching their second ever UEFA Cup final,
having lost in the 1988 final.


Benfica coach Fernando Santos could only shrug his shoulders in
despair.


"We dominated the match totally from the 10th minute but what can
one do. We will just have to focus on the title."


Bremen - who play Espanyol in the last four - were irresistible
against Alkmaar, who briefly held them at 1-1, as Klose
rediscovered his scoring touch in style and had coach Thomas
Schaaf saying 'crisis what crisis?' about his star striker, who
is being chased by several clubs including Juventus.


"Miroslav always trained hard and never lost confidence," said
Schaaf.


"His situation was never as catastrophic as people said.


"He knew he had not lost his goalscoring talents and today his
work paid off."

