

China will launch its first America's Cup bid Monday in Spain,
and while no one thinks it can win yachting's most prestigious
trophy, the team hopes the sport might eventually catch on at
home.


The ambitious Asian giant has little tradition or expertise in
sailing, let alone among the exorbitantly expensive and
technically complex America's Cup yachts that are often the
preserve of billionaire sportsmen.


"The goal is to build a platform for the future America's Cup
races where China can be a real challenger," Wang Chaoyong, a
wealthy venture capitalist who is syndicate head of the Chinese
team, told AFP.


China, increasingly a sports mad nation, has swiftly expanded its
tally of medals across a range of sports in recent years, as it
prepares to host the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing.


"The Chinese people's lack of interest and knowledge about
yachting is really a big problem for the sport," said Liu
Weidong, vice secretary of China's Yachting Association in
Beijing.


"Yachting requires a lot of money. You can't force it simply
because you want to promote the sport, because you have to take
economic means into consideration."


Even for those growing wealthy from China's economic boom,
facilities in a nation with 18,000 kilometres (11,000 miles) of
coastline are virtually non- existent, adding to the challenges
of drawing young talent.


To raise interest in the sport at home, Wang and the China team
recently ran several training camps and pushed promotional events
including an MTV-sponsored concert in Beijing last year.


But convincing revenue-seeking broadcasters to air races unlikely
to draw huge audiences has proven difficult, said Liu.


Support for "China Team" has grown, said Wang, but it has largely
come from the upper echelons of Chinese society -- companies,
well-paid executives, wealthy entrepreneurs and celebrities.


"Sailing is more of a sport for (financially) successful people,"
Wang admitted.


Nevertheless Wang believes that China's participation in sport's
oldest trophy will eventually put the Asian giant on the sailing
map, at a level commensurate with its status as a rising global
economic power.


"Technology, innovation, teamwork, entrepreneurship -- these are
the values of China's society today," said Wang.


"An emerging nation like China should have a team."


With the help of multinationals and other Chinese sponsors, Wang
has pumped 32 million euros (42 million dollars) into the
pioneering bid, securing the expertise of two-time America's Cup
challenger Le Defi.


But the extensive experience required to sail an America's Cup
boat means China has only procured five mainland sailors for the
team, all of them cup novices.


The rest of the 16 crew are French, Polish and Singaporean.


After months of preliminary races where China has consistently
crawled home last against 10 other syndicates hoping to face
Swiss holders Alinghi, the team expects no miracles when the
round-robin Louis Vuitton Cup starts on Monday.


"It's been a huge challenge for us. A huge learning curve... We
are building for the long term," said crew member Wearn Haw Tan
from Singapore.

