

Champions League semi-finalists AC Milan will visit Messina on
Sunday justifiably confident of repeating last year's 3-1 win
away at the Stadio San Filippo.


But despite blowing Bayern Munich out of Europe's premier club
competition only days ago, Milan know they must ride the wave of
success to have come their way of late if they are to even appear
in next year's tournament.


Surefire title winners Inter are widely tipped to grab another
three points when they host high-flying but stuttering Palermo at
the San Siro on Saturday.


In the process, they would be doing their city neighbours a
favour - Milan sit fifth in Serie A, a point behind Palermo who,
along with Catania, have nevertheless played a game more than the
rest of the league.


With 80 points from 30 matches Inter could afford to relax and
take their foot off the gas, although AC Milan coach Carlo
Ancelotti will be hoping that is not the case.


Palermo are the team who currently stand in Milan's way of fourth
place, and the Sicilians' coach, Francesco Guidolin, travels to
the San Siro knowing he is under pressure having taken only three
points from a possible 15 in their last three outings.


Ancelotti meanwhile is unlikely to be relying on favours from
elsewhere. Instead, he will be looking to benefit from the likely
return to the fray of on- form Brazilian Ronaldo.


The former Real Madrid marksman was Champions League-tied for
Wednesday's match against Bayern.


In the end Ronaldo proved surplus to requirements as Filippo
Inzaghi and Dutchman Clarence Seedorf, who had been going through
a bad patch, hit a goal apiece in an overall commanding display
to down the German champions 2-0.


Ronaldo capped a superb solo effort with a goal, and helped set
up another last week as Milan beat Empoli to reinvigorate their
bid for a place in the top four.


With the fourth place which guarantees entry to next season's
Champions League within their grasp, Ancelotti will be asking for
more of the same against a side which, nevertheless, has an
arguably more serious battle at hand.


The Sicilians are fighting for their top flight survival, having
slipped to second from bottom with only five wins from 30 games.


All five wins came at home, and Messina are unlikely to give
goals away cheaply. But to overcome Milan they will first have to
dispel the potential psychological handicap of not scoring in
their last three games.


Elsewhere Lazio, who are third on 55 points and well on their way
to next season's Champions League, travel to basement side
Ascoli.


Ascoli have won only one of their 14 home games, and Lazio, who
can be often be unpredictable, will be looking to shed any
feelings of doubt.


It is only a matter of time before Inter, who have not been
beaten this season, win the Italian league title.


With eight games remaining, a possible 24 points are up for
grabs.


Ahead of their hosting of Palermo, Inter lead second-placed Roma,
who face Sampdoria at home hoping to erase their nightmare 7-1
Champions League drubbing by Manchester United, by 18 points.


Fixtures


Saturday


Cagliari v Empoli, Inter v Palermo


Sunday


Ascoli v Lazio, Fiorentina v Siena, Livorno v Reggina, Messina v
AC Milan, Parma v Catania, Roma v Sampdoria, Torino v Atalanta,
Udinese v Chievo

