

A blindfolded man beheaded on video, a dozen kidnappings in a
month and near- daily suicide attacks: Afghanistan faces brutal
new Taliban tactics that are partly inspired by Iraqi insurgents,
experts say, but a direct link remains hard to prove.


The Taliban themselves admit their goal is to spread terror. "We
behead one as a lesson for others -- it's more effective and
creates more fear in the hearts of our enemies," spokesman Yousuf
Ahmadi told AFP.


But the fundamentalist movement that sprang from the backward
southern province of Kandahar in the mid 1990s and was ousted by
US-led forces in 2001 has become increasingly sophisticated in
recent months, analysts say.


"There is no direct link with Iraq but the Taliban are influenced
by Al-Qaeda there," said Pakistan-based analyst and retired army
general Talat Masood.


"They (the Iraqis) have more of a global character, the Taliban
try to learn from them, for example the use of Internet, of video
to put pressure on people," he added.


The decapitation of an Afghan driver and journalist working with
Italian war correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo bears witness to
this shift in tactics in a country where beheadings were once
almost unheard of, analysts say.


Mastrogiacomo was kidnapped by the Taliban on March 5 and
released under a controversial deal which saw five insurgent
prisoners go free.


The Taliban said on Sunday they had beheaded the Afghan
journalist and translator, Ajmal Naqshbandi, because the
government refused to free any more detainees.


Then an Italian television channel on Tuesday aired images taken
around a month earlier of the blindfolded driver, Sayed Agha,
being beheaded, after which a shivering Mastrogiacomo begged
Italian authorities to "do something."


Apparently emboldened by the exchange made by President Hamid
Karzai for Mastrogiacomo, the Taliban meanwhile continue to hold
two French aid workers and eight Afghans including a five-member
medical team.


The videotaped decapitation was a first for Afghanistan, and
harks back to the rash of Iraqi beheadings which started in 2004
and spread fear on the Internet and through sanitised clips on
TV.


The chief of the Afghan interior ministry's anti-terrorism
department believes the link between the two insurgencies is not
simply one of inspiration.


"We've reports that the Taliban are in contact with Iraqi
militants," Abdul Wahaab Khetaab told AFP.


"When there's a relation between them we can say there's an
exchange too."


Mullah Dadullah, the Taliban's feared commander in southern
Afghanistan, told Al-Jazeera television in March that Taliban
fighters visited Sunni insurgents in Iraq whenever they had the
chance and swapped information.


NATO officials have spoken of hundreds of foreign militants in
Afghanistan from Central Asia, North Africa and the Middle East
-- with many known to have fought with Osama bin Laden and the
Taliban before the fall of the regime.


But actual links between Iraqi and Afghan militants are hard to
prove.


"It is obvious that there is a mimetic effect with Iraq, ideas
and methods are going around. But in the case of men, there's
still no proof -- no Taliban have been found so far in Iraq,"
said Olivier Roy, a French expert on Afghanistan.


The likelihood that the Taliban are inspired rather than trained
by Iraqis appears to be borne out by suicide bombings in
Afghanistan, again a phenomenon that was unheard of in this
devoutly Islamic nation before 2001.


In recent years suicide bombings in Afghanistan have soared --
from 25 in 2005 to 139 in 2006 and with dozens already this year
-- but unlike Iraqi attackers, many miss their target or cause
few casualties.


"The training is poor, they take poor chaps from refugee camps
and after one or two weeks of training they send them," said
Masood, the Pakistani analyst.


In fact, Afghan officials have frequently accused Pakistani
militants, not Iraqis, of training Taliban suicide bombers in
hideouts in Pakistan's tribal border regions.


Whatever the origins of their tactics, the Taliban remain a
deadly threat to ordinary Afghans and also to foreign troops, 11
of whom have died in less than a week, including two NATO
soldiers on Thursday.


"Since the Taliban cannot win on the battlefield, these
beheadings, suicide bombings and explosions are the easiest way
to achieve their goals -- create fear and drive people into
panic," said Khetaab, the anti-terror chief.

