

The World Bank's executive board early Friday insisted president
Paul Wolfowitz never won its approval for hefty pay hikes they
said he personally ordered for his girlfriend at the global
lender.


Reporting the findings of an investigation into the scandal
surrounding his Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza, the bank's 24
executive directors appeared to raise serious questions over
Wolfowitz's handling of the affair.


The board issued a statement after a day-long emergency meeting
that stretched late into the night, as uproar deepened over an
employment package worth nearly 200,000 dollars given by the
World Bank to Riza.


The directors said Wolfowitz had sent a memorandum to the World
Bank's human resources vice president "directing him to reach an
agreement with the staff member (Riza) and specifying in detail
the terms and conditions."


Contrary to claims by Wolfowitz aides, the board said the World
Bank's ethics committee "had not been involved in the discussions
with the concerned staff member."


"Neither did it find that the terms and conditions of the
agreement had been commented on, reviewed or approved by the
ethics committee, its chairman or the board."


Amid calls from World Bank staff for Wolfowitz to resign, the
board statement added: "The executive directors will move
expeditiously to reach a conclusion on possible actions to take.


"In their consideration of the matter, the executive directors
will focus on all relevant governance implications for the bank."


Ahead of the bank's annual spring meeting this weekend, whose
formal agenda threatens to be engulfed by the dispute, Wolfowitz
said Thursday "I will accept any remedies" proposed by the
executive board.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," he told a news
conference. But his mea culpa was not enough for the World Bank's
staff association, which said Wolfowitz had "destroyed" the trust
of employees and should quit.


According to a series of leaks in recent days, Riza was
redeployed from the World Bank's communications office to an
external assignment at the US State Department after Wolfowitz
took over the bank in June 2005.


The assignment was ordered by the board in line with bank rules
that forbid staff members to have a relationship with other staff
working under their direct supervision.


Contrary to accounts given by Wolfowitz's office, the president
admitted that he was directly involved in the subsequent
negotiations over Riza's compensation while she served at the
State Department and remained on the bank payroll.


Wolfowitz said that "in hindsight, I wish I had trusted my
original instincts and kept myself out of the negotiations."


The board's statement agreed with Wolfowitz that he had sought
the advice of the ethics committee after taking office on how to
handle the Riza matter.


But it said the committee gave only "informal" guidance that she
should be reassigned and compensated for the potential disruption
to her career through a promotion.


The details, including abnormally high pay hikes and more than
one promotion, came on Wolfowitz's personal orders, the
investigation found.

