

There is a delicious irony in the fact that it took a team from a
country that can muster as much coastline as the moon to bring
the America's Cup back to Europe for the first time since the
inaugural edition off the Isle of Wight in 1851.


The stunning success of Switzerland's Alinghi in Auckland four
years ago sent more than a ripple running through the traditional
heavyweights of sport's oldest prize - America and more recently
New Zealand.


America's dominance from 1851 until 1983 was total until
Australia with her revolutionary winged keel made a giant splash,
breaking the USA stranglehold in 1983.


In 1995 New Zealand became only the third country to sail off
with yachting's blue riband


The Kiwis defended their title in 2000 - in the only edition not
to feature the Americans - but were denied a three-timer in 2003
by Alinghi who swept to victory winning the best of nine match
contest 5-0.


America and New Zealand, the two clear favourites among the 11
challengers for this 32nd edition, are now desperate to get their
hands back on the Auld Mug - as the trophy is affectionally known
- but the masterminds behind Alinghi's defence are not about to
let their title slip from their grasp without a fight.


And they made that clear in last week's final round of
preliminaries which much to the chagrin of their would be rivals
they went and won.


With four out of the seven regattas in the bag Alinghi sounded a
clear warning that her success back in Auckland was no flash in
the pan.


"It was a great opportunity to sail against the Challengers and
check our speed," said skipper Brad Butterworth.


From now until the start of the America's Cup proper on June 23
Alinghi will have to make do with a series of in-house tests as
she waits to find out the identity of her match rival.


And with that in mind the team's New Zealand captain sounded a
note of warning after last week's Louis Vuitton Act 13
preliminaries closed.


"It is not an easy game to win," said Butterworth.


"The challengers will develop through the Louis Vuitton Cup. We
are going to have to develop outside of it and that is going to
be the battle."


But he couldn't have been left any happier with the way SUI-91
performed last week.


"The boat's going really well and it's a real credit to the
designers and the builders, they've done a great job, SUI-91 is
perfect," said the man who acted as tactician in Alinghi's title
winning team.


"Sure we have a great team, but we have a great boat building
team. SUI-91 is a perfect boat, as good as I've ever felt in my
career.


"During this regatta every time it tacked it tacked well,
downwind it went well. It never had a weakness."

