

South Korea admitted Friday that North Korea would not meet a
weekend deadline to start the process of nuclear disarmament,
amid signs that a long-running dispute over money is still
blocking progress.


Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said that although Saturday was
the "target date" for implementing the first phase of a
breakthrough February 13 deal, it was unlikely to be met.


"Even if the situation can turn for the better, it is difficult
to expect that the first-stage steps can be taken by tomorrow,"
he told reporters.


US officials have also admitted the deadline set by negotiators
from six nations will slip, with mounting indications that the
North may be given more time to comply.


But they want Pyongyang at least to make a start by inviting in
UN atomic inspectors who will witness the eventual shutdown of
the Yongbyon reactor.


Officials say the reclusive communist state, which tested its
first atomic bomb last October, has stockpiled enough plutonium
from Yongbyon for another six to 12 weapons.


China said it hoped that the dispute over frozen North Korean
assets could be resolved soon.


"China has noticed the recent statements made by the US Treasury
Department and the Macau authorities and we hope this could help
to properly resolve this problem," foreign ministry spokesman Qin
Gang said in a brief statement.


"We hope for and welcome constructive efforts from all sides to
push forward the process of the six-party talks."


Under the February 13 agreement, the North was supposed to have
shut down and sealed its Yongbyon reactor by Saturday and to have
invited International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors back into
the country.


North Korea however has refused to take steps until it recovers
25 million dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US
instigation.


US and Macanese authorities said this week the accounts have been
unfrozen and the North can get its money back.


Song said the North has not yet responded but the issue may be
wider than just the Macau accounts.


"I think North Korea finds it necessary that it should be able to
freely dispose of the money to its own liking, and upon
withdrawing the money it should be able to enter the normal
international financial network and engage in normal
transactions," he said.


The US decision in 2005 to blacklist the Macau bank for handling
allegedly suspect funds prompted banks elsewhere in Asia to cut
financial ties with the North -- creating problems in handling
even its legitimate funds.


Chief US nuclear negotiator Christopher Hill said here Thursday
that the US action had been "extremely disruptive to North Korean
banking practices."


He was originally scheduled to leave here Friday for more talks
in China, and was willing to his North Korean counterpart Kim
Kye-Gwan, but officials could not immediately say when he was
departing.


The US State Department said the deadline may be extended.


"The members of the talks have it within their power to, I
suppose, modify any previous agreements," spokesman Sean
McCormack said.


He said the five parties involved in the negotiations with North
Korea -- China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States
-- would discuss the situation over the weekend.


Song said that as long as all sides intended to implement the
accord, "it's important not to be bound to the date, but to carry
out the agreed steps in a stable way."


But he said it was important not to lose the momentum.


Under the February agreement, North Korea should disable all its
nuclear programmes in exchange for one million tons of fuel oil
or equivalent aid and diplomatic benefits.


The North Koreans reportedly told visiting New Mexico state
governor Bill Richardson earlier this week they would invite UN
nuclear inspectors back -- they were expelled in 2002 -- in
within a day of receiving the funds.

