

A study released on Thursday indicates that more women than men
go online in the United States, defying the perception of the
Internet as a male-dominated realm.


Approximately 97.2 million women use the Internet in the United
States, compared to 90.9 million men, according to research by
eMarketer.


"There are absolutely more things women do online than men do,"
said eMarketer senior analyst Debra Aho Williamson, author of the
"Women Online" report.


"Women are the supreme communicators and the Internet makes it
easier for them to communicate and socialize."


For example, Williamson added, women and girls make up the
majority of the users on popular social-networking website
MySpace while only 45 percent of the audience at video-sharing
website YouTube.


"Social networking, in general, is very big with women,"
Williamson told AFP. "Particularly young women interested in
meeting people and talking with friends. It fits very well with
the lifestyle."


Seventy-eight percent of male US Internet users will watch video
online this year while 66 percent of the female users will,
according to eMarketer.


Reasons given for the difference in video-viewing proclivities
included men adopting new technologies faster than women and
having greater access to high- capacity broadband Internet
connections needed to handle data-rich video streams.


When women watch online video, they are most interested in news,
weather, music and movie clips, according to eMarketer.


Women are less likely than males to visit video websites and not
drawn to "silly videos" such as those abounding on Google-owned
YouTube, Williamson said.


Women are inclined to use the Internet to accomplish tasks
instead of as a diversion, according to the eMarketer report.


"Females, especially adult women, are more likely to use the
Internet to get things done, rather than to have fun," the
eMarketer report states.


"Many adult women, busy juggling work with their relationships
and child-caring responsibilities, don't have time to surf the
Web for video."


More women are expected to take up viewing video online in coming
years as broadband connections become ubiquitous and television
shows they like are made available on the Internet, according to
eMarketer.


"Early data indicate that female teens are as enthusiastic as
male teens about online video," Williamson said.


"The networks are well-positioned to drive greater female online
video usage by offering more programming that appeals to females,
particularly adults."


When women play online they prefer "casual games," such as
computer versions of board, card or word games, over battle games
with proven appeal to the opposite gender, according to
eMarketer.


The eMarketer study estimates that 66.2 percent of female US
residents three years of age or older will use the Internet this
year as opposed to 64.2 percent of male residents in the same age
range.


Women outnumber men by approximately five million in the United
States, according to 2005 census figures.


"Even within the populations of men and women you see more women
than men using the Internet," Williamson said.

