

Two NATO soldiers were killed Thursday in separate explosions in
Afghanistan, as US-led warplanes and soldiers killed 24 Taliban
hiding in caves in the south, officials said.


The killings followed the deaths of two Canadian troops on
Wednesday, and takes the number of foreign soldiers killed in the
country to 11 in less than a week.


A third soldier was wounded in the two roadside blasts, which
occurred 30 minutes apart along the same road in eastern
Afghanistan, the International Security Assistance Force said in
a statement.


"The two ISAF convoys were approximately eight kilometres (five
miles) apart, conducting independent operations in support of the
Afghan government, when they were attacked within 30 minutes of
each other," said the statement.


It did not identify the nationalities of the victims.


American soldiers are deployed in eastern Afghanistan, a volatile
area that borders Pakistan.


One American and eight Canadian soldiers have died in similar
explosions in Afghanistan since Sunday.


The renewed violence came as the Taliban on Thursday said they
had "hit" a NATO helicopter in southwest Afghanistan.


"We hit a NATO helicopter in Ghazni province," Youssouf Ahmadi, a
Taliban spokesman told AFP by telephone.


Angela Billings, a spokeswoman for the International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF) told AFP there had been an incident in
the eastern command region, which includes Ghazni province, but
gave no details.


The two latest Canadian victims were killed by a roadside bomb
near their vehicle on Wednesday, as the bodies of six of their
comrades who died days earlier in a similar attack were returning
home for burial, officials said.


That blast occurred about 38 kilometres (24 miles) west of the
southern city of Kandahar -- the birthplace of the Taliban -- and
also wounded two soldiers, one seriously, Canadian National
Defence spokesman John Knoll said in Ottawa.


The coalition said 24 Taliban were killed when Afghan and US-led
coalition troops spotted a group of the Islamist rebels on a
ridge near a cave in troubled Zabul province late Wednesday and
called in jets to bomb the location.


Several Taliban who survived the airstrike jumped on motorcycles
to evade the advancing troops before taking refuge in another
cave which was also destroyed by coalition aircraft, the
statement said.


"As a result of the fighting, 24 enemy fighters were killed, 14
motorcycles and two cave sites were destroyed. One weapons cache
was also recovered during a subsequent search of the caves," it
said.


Zabul is one of Afghanistan's most violent regions. Taliban
rebels seized control of a remote district there last week, the
latest of several rebel attempts to exert control in southern and
western parts of the country.


The latest casualties bring the Canadian military death toll in
Afghanistan to 53 since the start of their mission in 2002.


Canada has 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan as part of the
37,000-strong International Security Assistance Force (ISAF)
contingent that is supporting the government of President Hamid
Karzai. Separately, there are around 11,000 US-led coalition
troops.


Since the beginning of the year, 39 NATO and US-led coalition
troops have died in Afghanistan. Some 170 were killed there in
2006.


About 1,000 people, most of them militants, have been killed in
Taliban-related violence this year, according to an AFP toll
based on official reports.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and were ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the
September 11 attacks on the United States, but have since
regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates announced Wednesday that army
soldiers would see their tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq
extended by three months in a sign that the US military is
straining to meet its commitments.

