

Syd Millar, president of rugby union's world governing body the
International Rugby Board (IRB), is to meet with top French and
English clubs in a bid to avoid a boycott of next season's
European Cup.


Millar had launched a severe attack on both the French National
League (LNR) and Premier Rugby, the governing body of the English
Premiership, for their decisions to not compete in next season's
edition of Europe's premier club tournament.


However, in a statement on Thursday the IRB said that the former
Ireland rugby great would be holding separate talks with them at
a date yet to be decided to see if any compromise could be
reached.


"The Rugby Football Union (RFU) and the French Federation (FFR)
invited the president of the IRB to meet with both parties in the
coming days," read the IRB statement.


Both the LNR and Premier Rugby have claimed they are withdrawing
for the same reason, namely that the RFU give English clubs
shares in the ERC (European Rugby Cup).


However it is widely believed that the LNR are more concerned
about a fixture pile-up after France host the World Cup in
September and October this year and the broadcasters of the
domestic championship said they would not countenance having
games splayed during the global showpiece.


The IRB had offered the LNR the chance for them to play matches
during the World Cup - which they normally forbid - but were
flatly turned down.


However the fact that Millar will now be holding talks with the
LNR and Premier Rugby was warmly welcomed by FFR president
Bernard Lapasset.


"I am expecting a lot from the meeting with Syd Millar," Lapasset
told AFP.


"I hope that Syd will help us to re-establish the trust which at
the moment is missing between the French and English clubs and
the RFU.


"I hope the clubs will be able to express and explain their
behaviour."


That would appear unlikely with the LNR and their president,
former French rugby legend Serge Blanco, having stated their
decision was irrevocable and he had also been offended by
Millar's remarks about their decision had been 'shameful and
egotistical'.

