

A deadly suicide bombing in a heavily guarded area in Baghdad
housing Iraqi and US authorities rattled the United States
Thursday and turned a spotlight on US- led security in Iraq's
capital.


President George W. Bush strongly condemned the attack on the
canteen of Iraq's parliament, and stressed his drive to help
stabilize the volatile country.


"Our message to the Iraqi government is we stand with you as you
take the steps necessary to, not only reconcile politically, but
also put a security force in place that is able to deal with
these kind of people," he told reporters.


Officials in Washington struggled to explain how the bomber
managed to attack inside the fortress-like district known as the
Green Zone.


"It's very troubling that this happened inside the Green Zone,"
said White House spokeswoman Dana Perino. "And we're going to
work to make sure that ... we find out how it happened and that
it doesn't happen again."


The bomber on Thursday detonated an explosive belt, killing eight
people including at least two Iraqi lawmakers and a parliamentary
official, according to an Iraqi security official and the US
military.


"It reminds us ... that there is an enemy willing to bomb
innocent people and a symbol of democracy," Bush said.


"It's in our interest to help this young democracy be in a
position so it can sustain itself and govern itself and defend
itself against these extremists and radicals."


Asked if the blast raised questions about the success US efforts
to secure Baghdad, White House national security spokesman Gordon
Johndroe replied: "No, I think it shows the determination of the
terrorists and extremists."


At the State Department, spokesman Sean McCormack said that US
officials visit the targeted building "on a regular basis" but
that it was unclear whether any were there at the time of the
attack.


The strike came four years after the fall of the late dictator
Saddam Hussein's regime and three months after Washington
launched a major push to quell sectarian violence and crush
extremists in Iraq.


Responding to Thursday's attack, the United States did not admit
any failures in this drive, which involves deploying thousands of
extra US troops in Baghdad to secure it against insurgents.


McCormack said it was critical "to ensure that this (Iraq's
parliament) is a place where parliamentarians and those working
on behalf of the Iraqi government can do what they need to do in
a safe, secure atmosphere."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice blamed the attack on "the
terrorists and those who wish to stop the Iraqi people from
having a future that would be based on democracy and stability."


Her comments came as she met with Republican Senator John McCain,
a 2008 presidential hopeful who has drawn criticism for insisting
that parts of Baghdad are safe enough for westerners to walk
unescorted.


Rice sought to contain worries the blast may be a sign that the
security plan cannot quell deadly sectarian violence.


"There will be good days and bad days," she said. "But the
commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and working to
try to make the population more secure."


McCain said the attack should not deter the United States from
pursuing its security surge. He warned that the US public should
expect "more spectacular attacks" on the Green Zone.


"Suicide bombings are very, very difficult to counter," he said
after meeting with Bush, US national security adviser Stephen
Hadley and other officials at the White House.


"But there is now some stability in some of the areas of Baghdad.
In Anbar province there's been some progress and we hope and pray
that that will continue."

