

A top US talk-show host was booted off the airwaves Thursday
after using a racial slur on his program that outraged black
groups and triggered debate on the sensitive race issue.


Broadcasting giant CBS canceled shock-jock Don Imus's "Imus in
the Morning" radio show, carried on 61 stations across the
country, a day after MSNBC television dropped its simulcast of
the show.


Imus's plunge from the peaks of US broadcasting came after
calling the mostly black women's basketball team of Rutgers
University last week a group of "nappy- headed hos." Nappy-headed
describes kinky hair and hos is slang for whores.


The inflammatory racist remark unleashed furious public
condemnation and CBS and MSNBC initially announced they would
suspend Imus, 67, for two weeks.


But for many, nothing short of his firing would be enough. Major
advertisers of his show, which mixed raw humor with celebrity
interviews, nervously began pulling out.


Thursday, before the stunning CBS announcement, Imus said: "I
said a stupid, idiotic thing" and added: "We just have to move
on."


"I have apologized enough," he said. "The only other people I
want to talk to are these young women."


Imus met with the Rutgers women's basketball team late Thursday
in the New Jersey governor's mansion, according to US media
reports.


CBS chief Leslie Moonves said the decision to fire Imus was taken
after meeting with minority and women's groups to discuss the
affair.


"From the outset, I believe all of us have been deeply upset and
revulsed by the statements that were made on our air about the
young women who represented Rutgers University in the NCAA
Women's Basketball Championship with such class, energy and
talent," Moonves said in a statement.


"In our meetings with concerned groups, there has been much
discussion of the effect language like this has on our young
people, particularly young women of color trying to make their
way in this society," he said.


CBS board member Bruce Gordon, a former head of the powerful
NAACP black civil rights group, told the CNN television network:
"Don Imus crossed the line" and "damaged CBS's image and
reputation."


"It's really appropriate to sort of move from the Imus focus, in
terms of the personality, to the broader issue of race in media
and entertainment," Gordon said.


The National Association of Black Journalists, which had
protested Imus's comment, also hailed his departure.


"NABJ applauds MSNBC and CBS Radio for ending the networks'
broadcasts of radio personality Don Imus's program," the NABJ
said in a statement on its website.


Prominent black activist the Reverend Al Sharpton told CNN: "This
is only the first round in a long fight."


"This was about the responsible and ethical use of the airwaves.
And I think that Imus had to be penalized to keep that
precedent."


"We have to look at the entertainment world ... You have got to
deal with the music industry" including "misogynist" rappers, he
said.


Imus's supporters have argued that what he said was mild compared
with the coarse, provocative and racist language used in art
forms such as "gangsta" rap.


NBC News President Steve Capus, whose company owns MSNBC, said
the network had concluded that "there should not be any room for
this sort of conversation and dialogue on the air. It was the
only decision that we could reach."


Capus denied his decision was influenced by the withdrawal of
advertising by powerful sponsors like American Express, Sprint
Nextel, and General Motors.


Imus started his career at a small radio station in California in
1968 and attracted as many devoted followers as enemies with his
sharp-tongued brand of "insult humor."

