

Moroccan police questioned two men and uncovered a cache of
assault rifles Thursday as they hunted accomplices of three
suicide bombers who blew themselves up here this week.


Police said one of the men had been cleared and released while
the other, who entered a house after the bombings and threatened
to blow himself up unless he was given food, was also not thought
to be involved in Tuesday's violence.


The man was not carrying explosives when he was subdued by
security forces but he remained in custody.


A search of an apartment used by one of the bombers turned up a
cache of Kalashnikov assault rifles, a computer and mobile
phones, which police said could provide valuable information on
the bombers' accomplices.


Authorities have said there was no sign of a link between the
Casablanca bombings and two suicide bomb attacks that killed at
least 33 people in Algeria on Wednesday.


Residents of Casablanca were jittery in the wake of Tuesday's
explosions in the commercial el Farah district, when three
suspected militants blew themselves up as they were being chased
by police.


Police shot dead a fourth would-be bomber before he could set off
his explosives belt.


One police inspector was killed and seven people including a
child and two police officers were injured in the blasts.


In the shanty town Thursday where the suspects had lived, most
relatives of of the suicide bombers refused to speak to
reporters. The mother of bomber Ayoub Raidy said she had not seen
her son for months before his death.


"If Ayoub would have continued to live with me, I would have kept
him from committing the irreparable," she said.


She lost two sons in one month, with the first having blown
himself up in a March 11 bombing at a Casablanca Internet cafe.
His brother and the other extremists who blew themselves up here
Tuesday were wanted in connection with that incident.


Other residents said they were tired of being viewed with
suspicion because of suspected "terrorists" living in the
neighborhood.


"Our lives are already precarious," said Mohamed Harchi, 24,
adding that it annoyed him to repeatedly hear the neighborhood
associated with terrorism.


Most shops in the el Farah area were closed on Thursday.


Interior Minister Chakib Benmoussa said Wednesday that security
forces believed the bombers were local militants with no
connection to the Al-Qaeda group of Osama bin Laden, which
claimed responsibility for the Algeria attacks.


"We have found no logistical or structural elements to prove a
link with  the bombings at Algiers but we do not rule out a
movement espousing jihad (Islamic holy war) and terrorism," he
said.

