

NATO allies with troops deployed in southern Afghanistan agreed
Thursday to better cooperate to confront a Taliban offensive
which has already cost the lives of 1,000 soldiers, militants and
Afghan civilians this year.


But no new troop commitments were announced after envoys from
Australia, Britain, Denmark, Estonia, Netherlands, Romania, the
United States, as well as Canada, met behind closed-doors for
informal talks in Quebec City.


At the close, Canadian Defense Minister Gordon O'Connor told
reporters: "We talked about how we could coordinate our efforts
better in the south, how we could better train the Afghan army
and the police, how we could coordinate our efforts in
reconstruction."


"There was general agreement ... (on) a number of the
recommendations ... (to) improve our effort in Afghanistan," he
added, without offering details.


"But specifically in this meeting we didn't talk about extra
troops," he said.


"Right now the ISAF commander believes that (the current troop
commitment) is sufficient for him in the south," he said,
referring to the NATO-led International Security Assistance
Force.


Earlier, local media, citing US officials, reported that US
Defense Secretary Robert Gates would press the group to send more
supplies to Afghanistan, but Washington would not likely commit
more troops or equipment.


Gates announced Wednesday that 3,200 army soldiers would see
their tours of duty in Afghanistan extended to 15 months from 12
in a sign the US military is straining to meet its commitments.


Australia also said Wednesday it would double its deployment, and
Poland agreed recently to boost its troop numbers by about 1,000.


O'Connor announced Canada would soon replace its 17 aging tanks
in Kandahar province with 20 Leopard II tanks loaned from the
Netherlands, and 100 more tanks purchased from Germany would be
modified and rotated onto the Afghan battlefield by the end of
the year.


Costing 650 million Canadian dollars (573 million US) to buy,
borrow and maintain over five years, they will be used to better
protect Canadian soldiers and to attack a "helter-skelter
Taliban," O'Connor said.


"We had expected that there would be a surge in the Taliban this
spring and summer, that they would attempt to attack us with IEDS
and with suicide bombers and with long-range ambushes," he noted.


Canada has deployed 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan as
part of the 37,000-strong ISAF contingent that is supporting the
government of President Hamid Karzai. Separately there are around
11,000 US-led coalition troops.


NATO commanders have requested additional troops and armaments.
But the alliance's response has been timid. NATO needs more
aircraft, medical equipment and military trainers, and financial
aid to reconstruct the war-torn country.


Canada's existing tanks, for example, are not air-conditioned and
were deemed unusable in hot Afghan summers, when fighting usually
picks up.


Canadian, US and British officials have also lamented that
caveats by some countries restrict the alliance's ability to
deploy in war zones.


The NATO talks inside the walls of Quebec City's ancient citadel
came days after Canada suffered its heaviest single-day troop
loss in 50 years, with six killed on April 8, Easter Sunday,
outside southern Kandahar.


On Wednesday two more Canadian soldiers were killed and three
were injured in two separate roadside bombings near their
vehicles west of Kandahar City, the birthplace of the Taliban,
increasing Canada's death toll to 53 since 2002.


Two more NATO soldiers were killed Thursday in separate
explosions in Afghanistan, taking the number of foreign soldiers
killed in the country to 11 in less than a week, ISAF said.


Late Wednesday, 35 Islamist Taliban fighters were killed in
fierce fighting with Afghan and US-led troops in troubled Zabul
province, Afghan officials said.


Four Afghan soldiers were also killed and nearly two dozen
wounded in the province after being ambushed by Taliban
insurgents on Monday.


Around 1,000 people, the majority of them militants, have been
killed in Taliban-related violence this year. Last year was the
bloodiest since 2001 with almost 4,000 dead.

