

The United States urged Turkey on Thursday to refrain from
launching cross- border raids against Kurdish guerrilla bases in
neighboring Iraq, although it agreed the rebels "need to be dealt
with."


The assistant secretary of state for Europe, Dan Fried, made the
appeal in a telephone call to Turkish Ambassador Nabi Sensoy
after Turkey's army chief argued publicly in favor of a military
incursion into northern Iraq to crack down on Kurd rebels there,
US officials said.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Fried told the
envoy such incursions were "an option that everybody should work
to avoid."


Fried urged the Turkish government to pursue US-brokered
negotiations with leaders of the Kurdish autonomous area of
northern Iraq aimed at curbing the activities of the separatist
Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, which Washington and Ankara
consider a terrorist group.


"The focus should be on trying to resolve this in a cooperative
way, in a joint way, rather than to resort to unilateral
actions," McCormack said.


But the US spokesman went on to say it was imperative to counter
the PKK, which has waged a bloody campaign for Kurdish self-rule
in Turkey's southeast since 1984, an insurgency that has already
claimed about 37,000 lives.


"Clearly the terrorist activities of the PKK are completely
unacceptable," he said. "They are a terrorist group and they need
to be dealt with."


The US reacted after Turkey's top military commander, General
Yasar Buyukanit, told a press conference: "If you ask me whether
a cross-border operation is needed, yes it is needed. It would be
useful."


The army, he said however, had not yet asked the government for
parliamentary authorization for an incursion into Iraq.


A special US envoy, retired general Joseph Ralston, has been
trying for months to lower tensions between Turkey, a key US
military ally, and Iraqi Kurdish leaders whose support is
essential for US efforts to stabilize that country.


But the dispute has only worsened in recent weeks, when there has
also been an upsurge of fighting in Turkey between the army and
PKK units, which have left 10 soldiers and 29 rebels dead this
month.


Ankara fears that moves towards Kurdish independence in northern
Iraq could fuel the PKK's separatist campaign in southeast
Turkey.


Washington for its part is concerned that Turkey operations
against PKK bases inside northern Iraq could destabilize one of
the few relatively stable parts of the country.

