

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz is fighting for his political
life as calls mount for his resignation over his involvement in
astonishing pay hikes given to his girlfriend by the lender.


The controversy engulfing the former US deputy defense secretary,
one of the architects of the war in Iraq, threatened to
overshadow talks Friday among finance ministers from the wealthy
Group of Seven nations.


Ahead of the bank's annual spring meeting this weekend, whose
formal agenda threatens to be engulfed by the dispute, Wolfowitz
said Thursday "I will accept any remedies" proposed by its
24-member executive board.


The board extended an emergency meeting late into the evening of
Thursday, as uproar deepened over an employment package worth
nearly 200,000 dollars given by the World Bank to Wolfowitz's
Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told a news
conference. But his mea culpa was not enough for the World Bank's
staff association, which said Wolfowitz had "destroyed" the trust
of employees and should quit.


"He must act honorably and resign," the de facto union said in a
letter to the World Bank's 10,000 rank-and-file staff.


In an editorial in its Friday edition, the Financial Times
newspaper also called for Wolfowitz to go, either voluntarily or
at the behest of the board.


"If the president stays, (the World Bank) risks becoming an
object not of respect, but of scorn, and its campaign in favor of
good governance not a believable struggle, but blatant
hypocrisy," it said.


The controversy has become a deep embarrassment for Wolfowitz
just as he battles to overcome skepticism about a campaign that
he is waging against corruption in the 185-member World Bank's
multi-billion-dollar lending.


He is also under fire from veteran staffers for his management
style, following a series of clashes with the board and hostility
towards his appointment of Republican Party allies to jobs in his
inner circle.


But Wolfowitz, a "neoconservative" hawk whose nomination two
years ago by the US government was controversial given his role
in the Iraq war, insisted on his "passion" for the bank's mission
to relieve grinding poverty worldwide.


According to a series of leaks in recent days, Riza was
redeployed from the World Bank's communications office to an
external assignment at the US State Department after Wolfowitz
took over the bank in June 2005.


The assignment was ordered by the board, in line with bank rules
that ban members of staff who are in a relationship from working
under each other's direct supervision.


But contrary to claims by Wolfowitz aides, the president admitted
that he was directly involved in the subsequent negotiations over
Riza's compensation while she served at State and remained on the
bank payroll.


Wolfowitz said that "in hindsight, I wish I had trusted my
original instincts and kept myself out of the negotiations."


He said that he had followed advice given by the bank's ethics
committee, and stressed: "I take full responsibility for the
details of the agreement. I did not attempt to hide my actions
nor make anyone else responsible."


Some observers say Wolfowitz has become a liability at a time
when the World Bank is trying to prove its relevance to fast-
growing powers like China, which have ample currency reserves and
easy access to private capital.


Tim Adams, the US Treasury's undersecretary for international
affairs, said the administration would await the World Bank
board's findings.


"We should use all of our energy and all of our capacities to
address corruption wherever it is," he said, while applauding
Wolfowitz's work in Africa and on alleviating global poverty.

