

One of America's most popular talk-show hosts on Thursday lost
his second broadcasting job in as many days a week after uttering
a racial slur on the air that has triggered a national media
frenzy.


Broadcasting giant CBS dropped Don Imus's radio show, carried on
61 stations nationwide, for calling the mostly African-American
women's basketball team of Rutgers University a group of "nappy-
headed hos (whores)."


CBS's decision came a day after MSNBC television dropped its
simulcast of "Imus in the Morning" after a clamor mounted for the
firing of the veteran "shock jock" and major advertisers began to
shun the program.


"From the outset, I believe all of us have been deeply upset and
revulsed by the statements that were made on our air about the
young women who represented Rutgers University in the NCAA
Women's Basketball Championship with such class, energy and
talent," CBS chief Leslie Moonves said in a statement.


Moonves said the company had met with minority and women's groups
in recent days to discuss the controversy.


"In our meetings with concerned groups, there has been much
discussion of the effect language like this has on our young
people, particularly young women of color trying to make their
way in this society," he said.


"That consideration has weighed most heavily on our minds as we
made our decision, as have the many e-mails, phone calls and
personal discussions we have had with our colleagues across the
CBS Corporation and our many other constituencies."


NBC News President Steve Capus, whose company owns MSNBC, said
the network had concluded that "there should not be any room for
this sort of conversation and dialogue on the air. It was the
only decision that we could reach."


Capus denied his decision was influenced by the withdrawal of
advertising by powerful sponsors like American Express, Sprint
Nextel, and General Motors.


Both NBC and CBS had already announced that Imus, 67, would be
suspended for two weeks. The firings came as the clamor by anti-
racism activists and the media drumbeat reached fever-pitch.


The Imus case dominated the news coverage of US cable channels
and splashed across the front pages of newspapers, underscoring
the country's sensitivity to racial epithets.


Imus has repeatedly apologized on-air for his remark and sought a
private meeting with the Rutgers players, and his supporters have
argued that what he said pales compared with the language even
more coarse, provocative and racist in art forms such as
"gangsta" rap.


Before his firings, many of the movers and shakers of US society,
from pundits to presidential candidates, who were guests on
Imus's show had been weighing whether to risk a return visit.


Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, a leading contender for
the Republican presidential nomination, was among those willing
to give Imus another shot.


"I would appear on his program again, sure," Giuliani was quoted
as telling reporters. "I believe he understands he made a very,
very big mistake."


But Democratic presidential candidate Senator Barack Obama, who
appeared on the show two years ago, had said Imus should be
dropped by the networks.


"He didn't just cross the line ... he fed into some of the worst
stereotypes that my two young daughters are having to deal with
today in America," said Obama, an African-American, on ABC
television.


Imus started his career at a small radio station in California in
1968 and attracted as many devoted followers as enemies with his
sharp-tongued brand of "insult humor."

