

British gene hunters said Thursday they have found the strongest
DNA marker yet for obesity, a finding that may provide some
consolation to dieters who think their weight woes are more than
just a question of mind over matter.


The investigators first identified the gene, FTO, in the DNA of
people with type 2, or late-onset diabetes, a condition that is
lifestyle-related.


They were surprised to find the marker was associated with
increased body fat as measured by the body mass index (BMI)
rather than insulin production, so they scoured other DNA
databases to see if the gene predisposed a person to obesity.


In reviewing the genetics of some 39,000 people, they found that
individuals with one variant of the gene had a 30 percent higher
risk of being obese than people without it.


In people with two copies of the variant, the risk rose to almost
70 percent, and those people were about three kilograms (6.6
pounds) heavier on average than someone without either of the
alleles.


Overall, about 16 percent of white Europeans -- adults and
children -- carry the gene variants, and they are 1.67 times more
likely to be obese than people without either of the markers, the
researchers said in the journal Science.


"Our findings suggest a possible answer to someone who might ask
'I eat the same and do as much exercise as my friend next door,
so why am I fatter?'"  said professor Andrew Hattersley, of the
Peninsula Medical School, Exeter, and study co-author.


"There is clearly a component to obesity that is genetic," he
said.


It is not clear why the gene predisposes people for increased
body fat and higher rates of obesity, but it opens new avenues of
investigation for researchers looking into obesity and related
problems such as heart disease and diabetes, the researchers
said.


"Even though we have yet to fully understand the role played by
the FTO gene in obesity, our findings are a source of great
excitement," said Professor Mark McCarthy of Oxford University.
"New scientific insights will hopefully pave the way for us to
explore novel ways of treating this condition."


The researchers have only looked at one ethnic group so far:
white Europeans from the Britain and Finland, but they are
confident that the findings will hold up in other populations
given that this is the largest study on genes and obesity ever
conducted.


The hope is to examine the DNA of African Americans and South
Asians next, the investigators told journalists in a conference
call. Problems with obesity and excess weight have been
documented in both populations.


The study published in Science was a collaborative effort
involving 24 geneticists in Britain. The project was funded by
the Wellcome Trust, Britain's largest medical research charity.

