

Celtic manager Gordon Strachan is hoping to add to his happy
Hampden memories when his side take on St Johnstone in the
Scottish Cup semi-final on Saturday.


Last season the former Manchester United and Aberdeen player won
his first trophy as a manager when he guided Celtic to victory in
the League Cup final with a 3-0 victory over Dunfermline at
Scotland's national stadium.


As a player with Aberdeen, Strachan lifted the Scottish Cup three
times at Hampden - in addition to two league championships.


Having led Celtic to the SPL title last year, and on the verge of
repeating that success this season, Strachan is keen to make sure
the Parkhead club get to at least celebrate the double.


"We're looking forward to it. Hampden is a good place to play
football and we're going to enjoy the occasion," said Strachan.


"It's the home of Scottish football and it's been kind to me in
the past. I've been lucky in that I've had a lot of good
occasions there.


"Thankfully, they have mostly been successful and hopefully that
will continue on Saturday."


Although Celtic will be overwhelming favourites, First Division
side St Johnstone knocked Rangers out of the Scottish League Cup
at Ibrox this season in addition to SPL sides Motherwell and
Falkirk in the Scottish Cup.


Strachan is well aware it will not be easy, and said: "I've been
to see them twice and they're a good side.


"They have experience, ability and strength and have a lot going
for them as a football team."


Despite Celtic struggling for form in their last four matches -
with two defeats followed by a draw and a scrappy 1-0 win at home
- St Johnstone manager Owen Coyle laughed off suggestions they
are playing the Glasgow giants at the perfect time.


"It's never a good time to play Celtic. They are expected to beat
us comfortably but we want to do as well as we can and be
positive," said Coyle.


"If we give everything we've got but still lose we can still
sleep well at night."


On Sunday the second Scottish Cup semi-final will take place
between SPL basement side Dunfermline and Scottish League Cup
holders Hibernian.


Last Saturday the Pars caused a shock by beating Hibs 1-0 in the
league and manager Stephen Kenny is hopeful of a repeat this
weekend.


The Dunfermline boss said: "Of course it's a different game on
Sunday but the fact we beat them means we know it's not an
impossible task.


"I watched Hibs in the League Cup final and they were excellent
but this game gives us the chance to reach the Scottish Cup final
and we have to do everything we can to grasp that opportunity."


Hibs meanwhile are looking to complete a historic Cup double,
after thrashing Kilmarnock 5-1 in the League Cup final last
month.


Their preparations, however, were thrown into disarray this week
with reports suggesting a group of first team players had
complained to chairman Rod Petrie over John Collins' management
style.


But Collins says he is determined everyone at the club now pulls
together to try and win the double.


"As a manager you have to be thick-skinned, focused, determined
and know where you want to go," said Collins.


"We have a massive match now and all that matters is trying to
reach the final and making this a special season."


Fixtures (1130 GMT, unless otherwise stated)


Saturday


Celtic v St Johnstone


Sunday


Dunfermline v Hibernian (1400 GMT)

