

Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger knows the development of his
talented young team is in danger as the battle for the final
Champions League place hots up on Saturday.


Wenger's side are currently in possession of fourth position in
the Premiership, which guarantees entry into the Champions League
qualifying rounds. But they will lose that coveted spot if Bolton
win at the Emirates Stadium this weekend.


Just a few weeks ago it seemed certain the Gunners would finish
in the top four, but a dismal run of just one point and one goal
from their last four matches has allowed fifth-placed Bolton to
close the gap to two points.


Wenger has endured a frustrating season which has seen his
players show plenty of potential, without delivering the trophies
that a club of Arsenal's stature expects.


Failure to qualify for the Champions League would be the final
straw as it would halt the progess of young talents like Cesc
Fabregas, Gael Clichy and Denilson, as well as costing the London
club millions of pounds in lost revenue.


Johan Djourou is another of Arsenal's fine prospects and he
warned his team- mates they will have to show solidarity to get
the result they desperately need.


"Everyone knows how tough it is to play Bolton, be it at home or
there," Djourou said. "They are a really, really hard team to
break down. They're very aggressive. They play long balls but
they also have attacking, technical players in the side.


"We must try to get the team togetherness again and try to do as
well as we did last year. We are not pointing fingers. We are all
together in this."


Allardyce loves to claim he has all the answers to Wenger's
tactical ploys and he is confident of upsetting the Gunners
again.


"We know how to play against them," Allardyce said. "Tactically,
we are astute enough to work out what their strengths are and to
expose their weaknesses.


"We are good at working them out and stopping them playing to
their best. We haven't got the same fears now that we used to
have about going to play at Arsenal."


While the stakes are high at the Emirates Stadium, there will be
no less anxiety and drama at Bramall Lane, where Sheffield United
host West Ham in a crucial clash between two sides scrapping to
avoid relegation.


Both clubs are in the drop zone, with second bottom West Ham two
points behind United. But Alan Curbishley's visitors still
believe they can get out of trouble after three successive wins
breathed new life into a previously moribund campaign.


Australia defender Lucas Neill said: "We're the form team, which
is a nice feeling when there are only six games to go," he said
"A draw may not be the worst result at United, because we will
still give ourselves a chance."


The Blades in contrast have lost four of their last five matches,
but boss Neil Warnock remains defiant.


He said: "Everyone seems to think that West Ham are just going to
take the points off us so I want my lads to go out there and
prove them wrong. If anyone thinks we're a pushover then they're
wrong."


Lawrie Sanchez has just five games to save Fulham from relegation
and prove he is the right man to lead them on a permanent basis.


Sanchez takes his new team to Reading just days after he was on a
skiing holiday in Austria. Now the Northern Ireland coach, who
has only been appointed as caretaker manager at Craven Cottage
until the end of the season, has to stop Fulham's downhill slide
towards the Championship.


They are just above the drop zone after seven games without a win
ended in Chris Coleman's sacking on Tuesday and Sanchez faces a
tought task to halt the decline.


Fixtures:


Saturday (all 1400GMT)


Arsenal v Bolton, Manchester City v Liverpool, Middlesbrough v
Aston Villa, Portsmouth v Newcastle, Reading v Fulham, Sheffield
United v West Ham


Sunday


Everton v Charlton (1400GMT), Wigan v Tottenham (1230GMT)

