

Spain is confident the America's Cup will provide the country
with a huge economic boost, especially to its tourism sector,
long after the world's most famous sailing regatta is over.


The sunny Mediterranean port of Valencia, Spain's third-largest
city by population, has spent over one billion euros (1.3 billion
US dollars) to make itself over for the racing which begins on
April 16 and runs until July 7.


The city has extended its metro line until the airport, spruced
up its parks and transformed its once-gritty container port into
a tranquil marina.


"We will benefit immediately and also the day after when the
local investment is concluded," Public Administration Minister
Jordi Sevilla said last month.


The sailing event will generate some six billion euros and 61,300
jobs for Spain over the next eight years, according to a study
prepared for Spain's chambers of commerce.


Valencia and its surrounding region will gain 3.7 billion euros
as well as 40,770 jobs, mostly in the construction and service
sectors, it said.


Spanish officials and commentators draw parallels with the 1992
Summer Olympics which Barcelona used to full public relations
advantage to help it become a top tourism destination.


While the America's Cup is not as big as the Olympics, the mayor
of Valencia is optimistic that the event - which is being held in
Europe for the first time since 1851 - will help the city to
emerge from the shadows.


"All eyes will turn towards Valencia, the America's Cup is a
historic opportunity to show Valencia to the world," said
Valencia mayor Rita Barbera.


Some two million visitors are expected to flock to Valencia this
year, up from 1.6 million last year, due to the interest sparked
by the sailing event, which is predicted to draw a worldwide
television audience of about 600 million viewers.


Valencia tourism officials have already noted an increase in the
number of visitors to the region from Australia and New Zealand,
two nations which have hosted the America's Cup before and where
the event is popular.


"We have already been able to penetrate markets that were
unthinkable before," said the head of Valencia's tourism board,
Milagrosa Martinez Navarro, in a reference to the rise in
visitors from the two countries.


Valencia city officials have planned a series of concerts and
other cultural events timed to coincide with the regatta which
they hope will persuade visitors to return to the region in
future years.


The concert programme includes performances by British soul
singer Joe Cocker, Spanish opera legend Jose Carreras and
Portuguese fado singer Dulce Pontes.


Valencia hopes the sailing event will help it become the third
most visited city in Spain. It is currently the country's sixth
most visited destination.


Organizers of the event say security will be even tighter than
when Pope Benedict XVI visited Valencia in July 2006 as 2,000
police officers backed by 24 boats, five helicopters and 200
surveillance cameras will be deployed to ensure the event is not
marred.


Security, already tightened in Spain following the March 2004
train bombings which killed 191 people and wounded hundreds more,
was boosted further in December after the armed Basque seperatist
group ETA staged a car bombing at Madrid's airport that killed
two people.


The airport bombing was ETA's first fatal attack since May 2003.

