

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene paid tribute to old stagers
Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan who created the platform
for Thursday's six-wicket World Cup win over New Zealand.


The veteran duo, two of the survivors from the 1996 World Cup
winning team, shared six wickets between them as the Black Caps
were restricted to 219-7 in their 50 overs before Sri Lanka
cruised home with 29 balls to spare.


"We have played New Zealand many times in the last few years and
it is always a good challenge," said Jayawardene.


"Today the wicket got slower and slower and we bowled really well
to keep them down to 220. Vaas and Murali really did their part.


"I thought 250-260 would have been a competitive score on that
wicket. That score would have been tough to chase.


"You have to give full credit to our bowlers. If someone had
given me 220 before the match had started I would have taken
that."


Sri Lanka, New Zealand and Australia all have eight points in the
table with Jayawardene's team due to face the defending champions
in their next match here on April 16.


"It will be another good challenge to face Australia but if you
want to win the World Cup you have to take up the challenges."


New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming was disappointed in his
team's display but believes that despite his side's first defeat
in the tournament, he was confident of still progressing.


"We just couldn't post a score to be competitive. There were
lapses in concentration," he said.


"We have had a good run so far at the tournament. Today was the
first time we were really tested and put under pressure and we
didn't come through. It is disappointing but we are a better side
than that."


New Zealand next face South Africa here on Sunday and then
Australia in their last Super Eights match on April 20.


"We are pretty well placed," said Fleming. "There are two big
games to come."


Scott Styris made 111 in the New Zealand innings but he was
responsible for more than half of his team's runs as the Kiwis
never got to grips with the game.


"It was disappointing in the end. We didn't get enough runs and
lost wickets all the way through - it wasn't to be," said Styris.


"But we have to be positive, we are still in a good position. If
we can take lessons from today we should be fine."

