

Martin Jol warned his Tottenham players they must grow up quickly
after a series of costly mistakes ended their UEFA Cup challenge.


Jol's side were eliminated 4-3 on aggregate by Sevilla in the
quarter-finals after a 2-2 draw in the second leg at White Hart
Lane on Thursday.


Spurs had only themselves to blame as poor defending gifted the
UEFA Cup holders two goals in the first eight minutes. The London
club fought back in the second half but their dismal start had
given them too much ground to make up.


Jol knows his talented young team must develop the resilience
that is the hallmark of all successful teams before they can
expect to challenge for the game's top honours.


"We have to learn from this situation," he said. "At this level
you can't concede goals like we did tonight.


"If you play a European tie at home and you concede a goal like
we did in the third minute it is more than a blow. It was still
do-able but then we conceded a second in a similar situation.


"We were almost in shock because we knew we had to score four. It
is not the first time we have conceded goals like that.


"It is only a matter of doing your job and clearing the ball, but
that didn't happen."


Steed Malbranque was the guilty party for Sevilla's first goal in
the third minute when he miscued a clearance into his own net
after Christian Poulsen glanced Jose Luis Marti's corner towards
the French midfielder, who was supposed to be guarding the far
post.


Their defence was in disarray again in the eighth minute as
former Spurs striker Fredi Kanoute was allowed to play a one-two
with Aleksandr Kerzhakov before slipping his shot past Paul
Robinson.


Spurs at least showed they weren't prepared to throw in the towel
and they gave Sevilla a nervous finale. Jermain Defoe came off
the bench to score with his first touch when he turned in Robbie
Keane's shot in the 65th minute.


Aaron Lennon gave the hosts a glimmer of hope with a close range
finish three minutes later, but Michael Dawson and Dimitar
Berbatov were unable to convert two late chances as Sevilla held
on


Teemu Tainio was sent off in the last minute for a knee-high
lunge on Antonio Puerta, but Jol was incensed by Poulsen's stamp
on Jermaine Jenas midway earlier in the second half.


He said: "It was a naughty situation. There was probably a little
foul on Poulsen first but then he reacted in such a professional
way that you could not see he did it on purpose."


Jol insisted it had still been a successful season despite
squandered opportunites in three cups. They wasted winning
positions against Arsenal in the League Cup semi-final and
Chelsea in the FA Cup quarter-final, but Jol said: "We are out of
all the cups but I feel it was an exciting year for us.


"You can look at it two ways. If we do the same next year we will
have had a good year. It is very difficult to win even the FA Cup
in England because you habve to beat Chelsea and Manchester
United.


"We have a new team, with good exciting players, but we have to
defend better."


After Manchester United, Chelsea and Liverpool gave England three
clubs in the last four of the Champions League this week; Spain
redressed the balance in the UEFA Cup.


Sevilla will now face La Liga rivals Osasuna, while Espanyol are
also through - giving Spain three of the four semi-final spots.


Sevilla coach Juande Ramos said: "It says a lot about the quality
of Spanish football. We have three English teams in the semi-
finals of the Champions League and now there are three Spanish
teams in the UEFA Cup semi-finals. It is a pity we have to fight
it out amongst ourselves for the trophies!


"We know Osasuna very well because we have played against them
quite a few times in the Spanish League and Cup and we will have
to play very well to reach the UEFA Cup final again."

