

Watch out "deformed men" and "liquor heads" -- your days in
Beijing are numbered.


A campaign to correct the notoriously goofy English translations
on city signs in time for next year's Olympics could mean the end
for the misnomers that have confused and amused visitors for
years.


Officials are taking aim at menu items such as "Fried Crap" and
"Acid Food", and slippery-when-wet signs that read, "To take
notice of safe: The slippery are very crafty".


The campaign began last year to avoid causing confusion and
possible offence when visitors from around the world descend on a
city that has for years featured a "Racist Park" dedicated to
ethnic minorities.


But to some, the "pubic toilets" and "harsh browns" will be
missed.


"It's too bad. They give the city a little more character," said
Ian McCulloch, a Briton who studies Chinese at a local
university.


"It's almost worth a walk down the street just for that."


Officials have launched several parallel campaigns -- some aim to
discourage spitting and queue-jumping while others encourage
smiling and other civilities -- in a bid to soften a city that
has its share of rough edges.


But authorities have pushed the language effort as much as any
other, sending out camera-wielding inspectors to comb the streets
in search of offenders like "Deformed Men" on handicapped
restroom stalls, and "liquor heads" seen on signs banning public
drinking.


Translation guidelines also have been issued to local governments
and industry groups, who have been urged to clean up the English
in their spheres.


A city official said Wednesday that 6,530 road signs had been
changed or replaced by the end of 2006.


Another 1,076 signs at tourist sites have been edited, over
20,000 have been inspected in medical facilities and still more
offending wordage is being given the once-over at public
restrooms, restaurants and other facilities.


"We are targeting public places that are closely related to the
life, work, study and travel of our foreign friends," said Liu
Yang, deputy director of Beijing's foreign affairs office.


The push has already claimed a high-profile victim.


For years, the flaming-red neon sign of the Dongda Hospital for
Anus and Intestine Disease loomed high over a busy street in
eastern Beijing. But it recently gave way to "Dongda Proctology
Hospital".


Liu said more needs to be done in a city where menus still offer
such delicacies as "Big Bowl Fresh Immerse Miscellaneous Germ"
and construction sites warn "Beware of Safety".


But getting hotels, restaurants and private businesses to comply
with the non- binding guidelines could prove more difficult than
altering state-owned road signs.


"So far I think we have achieved good progress in standardising
English translations of signs. But we need cooperation from all
sectors to avoid lax enforcement and future confusion," Liu said.


One possible bone of contention will be plans by the city to soon
launch a push to tighten up menus at hotels and restaurants.


Liu said the city wants many of the Chinese dishes that carry
ambiguous names like Seven Happiness, a mix of seafood, meats and
vegetables, to be translated more informatively, an idea that
provoked a backlash in the blogosphere when first floated earlier
this year.


"Menus should introduce to a guest what kind of meat or
vegetables are in the dish and should be brief and clear," Liu
said.


"I know that some of the translations now are really problematic
and not so polite."


Visitors to the Olympics may no longer, then, enjoy the delights
of "flesh fruit".

