

Indonesia's strong economic expansion and increased political
stability will allow the government to focus on reforms pushed
for by restless foreign investors, its economic minister said
Thursday.


Minister Boediono, who goes by one name, said Indonesia was in
the threshold of once again achieving annual economic growth in
the seven percent range after a decade of recovery from a
financial crisis that plunged Southeast Asia's largest nation
into political chaos.


"The improving macro picture, increased political and
institutional stability allow us to turn with more focus and
energy to the reform agenda," he told a joint forum of the US-
ASEAN Business Council and US-Indonesia Society.


Noting "impatience" by the international community on the slow
pace of reforms in Indonesia, Boediono said the government had to
hold time-consuming consultations with parliament and other
"stakeholders" before crafting policies under the country's new
vibrant democratic environment.


"Expectations were high that significant reforms would be
forthcoming faster than has proven to be the case, but we have to
accept that we are operating in a new reality," he said.


Indonesia's 1997 financial crisis, triggered by a sinking
currency, led to a severe recession in the world's most populous
Muslim nation and political turmoil that saw the toppling of
longtime dictator Suharto.


Boediono said he expected to see economic growth at 6.3 percent
this year, a "fairly substantial pickup" from last year's 5.5
percent.


But next year, he said, an expected turnaround in investment
perception amid increasing reform momentum could see even higher
investment driving growth to "6.8 percent with the possibility
that it could go higher and return to the seven percent range."


Boediono said an investment law passed by parliament last week
included equal treatment for domestic and foreign firms in some
areas and the right of foreign firms to seek redress through
"binding" arbitration in cases of disputes with government.


The authorities are formulating a variety of regulations to
support the law, including investment approval procedures and tax
reforms, he said.


Moves are also underway to create a "national single window"
allowing importers and exporters to deal on line with customs and
all related government agencies cutting time and transactions
costs, he said.


On reforms in the financial area, he said the government intended
to push forward with improvements to the operations of capital
markets, including a more effective regulatory framework for
insurance and pensions.


"Deeper and more diversified capital markets are critical to
increased corporate borrowing and long term infrastructure
finance," he said.


On his country's infrastructure crunch, the minister said "the
situation in many areas is critical" and that the government was
especially pushing ahead with accelerated tendering of power
plants.


He said the government was also ready to push ahead with civil
service reforms, which he pointed out was "one of the most
fundamental reform agendas."


"It is no secret that one of the reasons we have had difficulty
moving quickly on reforms has been an inability to deliver
quickly on regulations needed to cut transactions costs," he
said.


"An even greater problem is in our inability to make sure that
policies once enacted are carried out as desired," he said.

