

The 11 teams jousting to earn the right to take on America's Cup
defender Alinghi take to the waters off Valencia from Monday for
the start of the Louis Vuitton Cup.


The winner of the two-month long competition will go on to face
the Swiss holders of yachting's most cherished trophy in the best
of nine match duel from June 23.


Given that your average Swiss family has to drive a good four
hours before getting a glimpse of a drop of seawater Alinghi's
management team chose this Spanish port over Marseille to play
host to the 32nd edition of sport's oldest prize.


Favourites to confront Alinghi hail not surprisingly from America
- who made the Cup their own for 132 years - in the guise of BMW
Oracle Racing from San Francisco and Team New Zealand, who are
out to exact revenge after their 5-0 drubbing in Auckland Bay in
2003.


Past winners Great Britain and Australia may be noticeable by
their absence but this year's America's Cup has added spice with
the presence of first timers China, Germany and South Africa.


This trio may be here just to test the waters but for the USA and
the Kiwis winning is everything.


Queen Victoria discovered that back in 1851 when she turned to an
adjacent admiral and asked: "Who is first?"


"America has won," she was told.


"Who was second?" she then asked.


"Your Majesty, there is no second," the admiral replied.


Royal patronage continues to this day with King Don Juan Carlos
an avid supporter of 'host' Spain's challenger, Desafio Espanol.


The America's Cup is unique in that the defender gets to set the
rules and venue for his defence - that's a bit like Roger Federer
putting his Wimbledon title up for grabs on the court in his back
garden or Tiger Woods defending the British Open crown on his
local pitch and putt.


As well as choosing Valencia, Alinghi's multi-millionaire backer
Ernesto Bertarelli decided to shake up the whole qualifying
programme by introducing a three-year long series of preparatory
regattas known as acts with the final Act 13 played out here last
week.


"The preliminary regattas have been the greatest revolution in
the Cup for 20 years," said Bertarelli.


"It means the teams don't go to sleep. The life of the Cup keeps
going for these past four years when all the infrastructure has
to be set up.


"What's more to allow teams to take each other on several times a
year is positive."


He added: "And it's interesting for us to size ourselves up
against the challengers to see if we're still on the right path
or whether we need to change things."


Bertarelli is hoping that his dramatic restructuring of the
America's Cup programme will enable Alinghi to defy the history
books which show that only four defenders have held on to the
Auld Mug since it was first presented 156 years ago.


And it may well have paid dividends as while his boat sits out
the Louis Vuitton Cup, preparing for the business ahead in a
series of in-house trials she's already set a marker down against
the opposition by winning four of last week's seven final
preliminary regattas.


In light of the Swiss boat's starring role there boss Kevin
Shoebridge spelled out the challenge ahead for Team New Zealand.


"Our goal is first to win the Vuitton and become the challenger
of Alinghi," he said.


"Then, of course, we absolutely want to bring back the Cup to
Auckland, but it won't be easy as the Swiss boat is still the
reference, as we saw during the recent fleet regattas in
Valencia."


Running his eye over the strength of the other would-be
challengers Shoebridge added: "It will be difficult, because the
other boats are very good.


"They have come a long way in the past two years and closed the
gap, even the smaller teams.


"The main expectation is that it will be between us, BMW Oracle
and Luna Rossa. But you have to watch out for some other teams
like the Spanish, Mascalzone or Victory Challenge. It's going to
be very close and there will be surprises in the next two weeks."

