

Nigeria's divided opposition is trying to  field a common
presidential candidate in polls starting this week in Africa's
most populous nation, a leading aspirant for the top job said
Thursday.


"There is going to be a meeting of all the presidential
candidates of opposition parties on Tuesday and they are going to
discuss the issue," said Muhammadu Buhari, former head of state
and leader of the All Nigeria Peoples Party.


Buhari, who led Nigeria between 1984 and 1985 as a military
ruler, had convened a meeting in the capital Abuja in a bid to
get the opposition to forge an alliance for the April 21
presidential and national assembly polls.


Provincial legislative and governorship elections will be held
across the sprawling nation this Saturday.


However, only six of the 23 opposition preisdential candidates
attended Thursday's meeting, although nine others sent
representatives.


Some 61 million voters are eligible to cast their ballot in the
elections in what looks set to be the first civilian-to-civilian
handover in Africa's biggest oil producer since it gained
independence from Britain in 1960.


In 46 years, Nigeria has had almost 30 years of military
dictatorships marked by widespread plunder by the rulers.


Elections in the west African country have earlier been marred by
violence and fraud.


The European Union meanwhile Thursday said it would deploy more
than 150 observers across the country.


But it said it would be staying away from three states -- Rivers,
Delta and Bayelsa -- in the oil-rich Delta region where several
foreign oil workers have been kidnapped recently.


As the countdown to the elections began, a Paris-based media
rights watchdog Thursday denounced the Nigerian authorities for
closing a private radio channel and a television station in the
economic capital Lagos.


"Elections should be a time when the government takes more care
than ever to respect the rule of law," said a statement from
Reporters Without Borders (Reporters sans Frontieres, RSF).


"There is no justification for the enforced closure of Link FM
and GTV, so the measure should be lifted and their personnel
should be allowed to return to work," it said.


Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, a combative ex-general who
was re-elected in 2003 in Nigeria's first civilian-run
presidential election in 20 years, is stepping down after a
second term. Obasanjo had been a military ruler earlier.

