

South and North Korea decided Friday to  expand a reunion
programme for families separated for half a century, but reached
no agreement on hundreds of people whom Seoul says were abducted
by the communist state.


After four days of talks Red Cross officials from the two sides
said there would be an extra round of face-to-face reunions this
year, apart from one already planned.


There will also be two additional rounds of video reunions. And
20 families who have already been reunited will be able to
exchange messages on CDs, according to a pool report from the
talks venue at the North's Mount Kumgang resort.


"We failed to come up with a concrete agreement on the POW and
abductee issue. But we will continue to make efforts to solve the
problem," said Jang Seok-jun, chief of the South Korean
delegation, as quoted by Yonhap news agency.


At one point the North threatened to walk out if the South
continued using the term "POWs and abductees." The North refers
to "those unaccounted for during or after the war."


The South had been pushing for a separate reunion programme for
the abductees and prisoners of war.


Seoul says 485 South Koreans have been abducted since the end of
the 1950-53 Korean War, and that 548 South Korean prisoners of
war were never sent home.


The North denies holding any South Koreans against their will but
has in the past allowed a selected number of abductees to meet
South Korean relatives in the North.


Families of abductees expressed dissatisfaction.


"I pinned some hope on the talks but no progress was made on the
POW and abductee issue," said Choe Seong-yong, president of an
advocacy group. "I don't understand why the government is being
dragged by North Korea."


In April last year the South offered the North more economic aid
in exchange for settling the POW and abductee problem, but no
progress was made.


The family reunion programme was expanded after a 2000 inter-
Korean peace summit. They are a pressing issue because many
relatives are desperate to see loved ones before they die.


More than 14,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-face reunions
since the summit. About 2,700 others have been reunited via video
link since August 2005.


Even so, more than 90,000 people from the South alone have not
seen loved ones since the war ended. There are no mail or
telephone services across the heavily fortified border.

