

Germany striker Miroslav Klose ended his goal drought in style
here Thursday with a brace in Werder Bremen's 4-1 win over AZ
Alkmaar which secured their place in the UEFA Cup semi-finals.


The Polish-born forward scored in the 36th minute to end his
barren spell, which dated back to January 31 and lasted 1158
minutes, to add to Tim Borowski's opener - which had been pegged
back by Moussa Dembele's excellent 32nd minute equaliser.


Any doubts that Werder - who almost put Barcelona out in the
Champions League group stages - would not be in the final four
were settled when Klose added their third in the 62nd minute.


Inspirational Brazilian playmaker Diego rounded off the scoring
against the plucky Dutch with a well deserved goal eight minutes
from time, hitting home from the edge of the penalty area after
playing a neat 1-2 with Klose.


The first half came to a boil after Borowski netted in the 19th
minute, escaping the attentions of an Alkmaar defender to latch
onto a delightful lobbed ball from Diego to shoot into the far
corner of the net.


Alkmaar were far from cowed and captain and former Rangers
striker Shota Arveladze almost levelled with a splendid lob from
outside the area which took a deflection for a corner.


The Dutch side, though, did draw level as Dembele produced a
fierce left footed shot from just outside the box which beat the
diving Tim Wiese in the left hand corner for his fourth goal of
the campaign.


It had coach Louis van Gaal punching the air in delight, but the
former Barcelona and Dutch national coach was not in the same
mood when Klose got on the end of Aaron Hunt's pass across the
five-yard line to score his first goal of the competition.


Indeed van Gaal was in even more of a fury when what looked like
a perfectly good goal was disallowed and he had several words
with the fourth official over referee Mike Riley's decision.


The hosts should have been 3-1 up a minute later as Borowski
squared the ball from the right but Klose was only able to screw
the ball over the bar.


The second half was as exciting an affair with Werder's Naldo
going agonisingly close with a rasping free kick but it was to be
Klose who closed things down for the German side.


Again Diego was the architect, the pocket-sized Brazilian
floating over an inch- perfect cross from the right for Klose to
send a diving header past the keeper and secure his brace, and
Bremen's victory.

