

Crude oil prices rallied Thursday as worries grew about tight
supplies of gasoline in the United States ahead of the peak
demand season.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, jumped 1.84 dollars close at 63.85 dollars per
barrel.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 88
cents to settle at 68.72 dollars per barrel in London.


The impact of a sharp drop in US motor fuel stocks and
indications that demand was rising continued to impact the market
a day after US inventory figures stunned traders.


"Nine straight weeks of gasoline supply drops and this one was a
doozy," said Phil Flynn at Alaron Trading, citing the Department
of Energy report showing a 5.5 million barrel drop in gasoline
supplies.


"US gasoline supplies keep falling further and further behind the
demand curve as refiners get ready to make their move to catch
up. Can the refiners do it or will their big push be too little
to late?"


The decline in inventories was far heavier than market
expectations for a fall of 1.4 million barrels, and came ahead of
the peak-demand season.


Flynn added: "The bottom line is that gas supplies are below
normal. In the coming weeks it is going to take an awful lot of
crude and an awful lot of good luck to get things back up to
snuff."


Gasoline stockpiles are a critical focus before the so-called US
driving season that starts next month and sees many Americans
take to the roads for their holidays.


"Now we are going into the US driving season, everyone is looking
at gasoline," CMC Markets trader Nas Nijjar said.


Meanwhile the International Energy Agency on Thursday urged the
OPEC oil producers' group to increase production, saying in its
monthly report that higher output was needed to build up world
stocks.


The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided to cut
its oil output twice at the end of last year to help stem falling
prices.


"The IEA said output remains below sufficient levels necessary to
produce the usual spring build in crude inventories," Davies
noted.


"However, whilst the IEA is focusing on crude stocks, the real
issue (driving prices) at the moment is the falling US gasoline
inventories and tensions surrounding Iran's nuclear program."


Analysts fear that further UN sanctions against Iran, the world's
fourth biggest producer of crude, could see the Islamic Republic
disrupt oil exports.


The IEA, meanwhile, also tweaked its estimates of world oil
demand for last year and 2007.


Demand in 2006 was estimated at 84.3 million barrels per day, a
cut of 190,000 bpd from a previous estimate. The IEA forecast
demand this year to be at 85.8 million bpd, a reduction of
250,000 bpd from a previous estimate.

