

Europe's biggest chain of sex shops is turning its back on sleazy
red light districts by moving uptown and upmarket in search of
new customers.


Beate Uhse, which dominates Europe's erotica market, is
establishing a range of city centre boutiques that aim to attract
a wider clientele.


"The traditional sex shops will not survive as they are," said
Otto Christian Lindemann, the German group's director.


Beate Uhse's flagship products, porn films and special film
screenings, are no longer making money for the company. These
days, clients prefer to surf the Internet where they can often
download films for free.


As a result, DVD prices have tumbled.


"In the 1990s, a video cassette cost the equivalent of 40 euros
(54 dollars). Today, you can find DVDs for as little as 10
euros," said Richard Fhal, boss of Concorde, a French wholesale
dealer for Beate Uhse.


The German firm's recent financial history reflects this change
in the market and makes uneasy reading. Bulk, mail order and
Internet sales are all in trouble. And that's not counting some
other difficulties closer to home.


Customers have complained of long delays in receiving their mail
order goods. Also, there was controversy surrounding a range of
Beate Uhse vibrators that tried to cash in on World Cup fever.


Launched during last summer's World Cup football tournament
hosted by Germany, the vibrators bore the names "Olli K" and
"Michael B," but had to be withdrawn after two German players,
Oliver Kahn and Michael Ballack, threatened legal action.


Finally, flooding at its distribution centre in the Netherlands
ruined all the company's Christmas stock. As a result, net
profits for 2006 dropped by 30 percent to 10 million euros.


But the company is not finished yet. The resilient personality of
its founder, Beate Ushe, a World War II fighter pilot, lives on.


To turn around its ailing fortunes, a new strategy must be found.
In the view of one analyst, Beate Uhse, fortunately holds a trump
card over its competitors.


"The Beate Uhse brand is renowned throughout Germany, Austria and
Switzerland. It's a good asset to have over the competition,"
said Stefan Rohle, an analyst at the Institute for Independent
Research.


Lindemann's magic pill is to replace the hard porn magazines and
tawdry dildos with colourful sex toys and risque underwear aimed
at both men and women.


A new store in Munich opened last January with the aim of testing
this new concept.


"Eroticism is part of all our daily lives," Lindemann said. "With
this shop, we are reaching out to new customers, who go there to
browse after doing their Saturday shopping. We will continue to
make porn, but it will targeted at a much wider audience."


For sex industry watchers, this idea is a bit passe. Five years
ago, Beate Uhse announced very similar measures. In 2003, it
opened Mae B, a new chain aimed exclusively at women which turned
out to be a flop.


Fhal, the French wholesaler, said this was because women tend to
be more discreet about their sexuality than men. Women prefer the
discretion of mail order where females make up over half of all
customers.


"All this comes a little too late, but better late than never,"
said analyst Rohle.


Klaus Kranzle, an analyst at GSC Research, said it was not clear
that the new proposals "will bring in much money."


Lindemann disagreed. "We cannot change overnight," he argued and
insisted that the strategy taken "is the right one."


This time, however, there is little or no margin for error. The
company's principal shareholder, Ulrich Rotermund, son of the
company's founder, is looking to sell his share of around 28
percent.


This has sparked fears the group will be broken up, a possibility
rejected by Lindemann.


Beate Uhse remains hopeful that sex will start selling once
again.

