

A giant freshwater carp nicknamed the "tiger fish" for its great
fighting abilities is set to return to the fast-flowing rivers of
Indian Kashmir, officials say.


Scientists have built a hatchery for breeding the mahseer and
hope to restock the waters of Kashmir, known as an "angler's
paradise," although few foreign fishermen venture here now due to
a deadly Islamic insurgency.


"Catching mahseer is a real sport, a real adventure. Its re-
introduction in these waters will definitely see an influx of
anglers," says one enthusiastic fisherman, Abdul Qayoom, who
lives on the outskirts of Srinagar, urban hub of the revolt
against New Delhi's rule that began in 1989.


"They fight like tigers when you try to net them," said 54-year-
old Qayoom, recalling how he used to catch the fish in his youth.


"But the last catch I had was in 1987. My family and friends all
feasted on this 40-kilogram (80 pound) fish, it was wonderful,"
he said.


Hundreds of thrashing, thick-scaled mahseer used to migrate to
Indian Kashmir each year until neighbouring Pakistan completed
the Mangla dam in 1967 across the Jhelum river, the traditional
migratory route for the fish.


The dam prevented the red-finned omnivorous mahseer -- prized for
its length up to 2.75 metres (nine feet) and weight of up to 60
kilograms (132 pounds) -- from swimming to Indian Kashmir from
the Pakistan side.


While the mahseer, valued by connoisseurs for its lean and
succulent meat, can be found in other parts of the subcontinent,
it now is rarely seen in the waters of Indian Kashmir.


"It's almost extinct in these waters," says Shaukath Ali, joint
director of Kashmir's fisheries department and a specialist in
fish rearing.


But last year Indian Kashmir authorities set up a hatchery in
southern Udhampur district to breed the mahseer and plan to open
another this year in Uri, near the de facto border dividing
Kashmir between nuclear-armed neighbours India and Pakistan.


"We're breeding the prized fish in captivity and hope to release
the fish in water bodies soon," says Ali, adding no date had yet
been fixed.


"We want to stock mahseer fingerlings in natural waters and to
revive the presence of this fish," says Ali.


The government is also using hatcheries to stock Indian Kashmir's
rivers with brown trout, identifiable by their red dappling and
luminescent silver and gold streaks and introduced by India's
former British colonial rulers.


The fish-breeding drive is part of a government effort to lure
anglers back to the region's powerful rivers, which throw up
white spray as they crest over huge boulders.


"The anglers love the tiger fish for its fighting spirit," says
Ghulam Rasool Wani, a zoolologist and fish expert. "Their
introduction will certainly lure more anglers to Kashmir."


Kashmir used to draw fishermen from around the world to cast
their lures in its rivers. But after Islamic rebels took up arms
against New Delhi's rule nearly 18 years ago, the number of
tourists to this region of verdant valleys and snowcapped peaks
plummeted.


Fear of rebel attacks meant that venturing into the wilds of
Kashmir with just a fishing rod for protection became a "minority
sport" for only the bravest of fishermen.


But tourism officials say they hope a peace process between India
and Pakistan aimed at ending their decades-old feud over the
Himalayan region that each hold in part and claim in full will
bring a "tourist dividend".


The number of insurgency-related deaths in the region has fallen
from ten deaths daily in 2001 to three in 2006.


"We have proposed setting up aquariums all along river Jehlum and
more fishing points to lure more tourists, anglers in
particular," said Ali.

