

The world's seven richest nations faced perennial divisions over
economic policy at talks Friday that were to be clouded by a
scandal engulfing World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz.


Discord over currency rates, hedge-fund regulation and IMF reform
has deepened ahead of the latest meeting of Group of Seven (G7)
finance ministers from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
Japan and the United States.


The ministers were to convene ahead of weekend meetings of the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank, whose head faces
calls to resign over extravagant pay hikes given to his
girlfriend at the global development lender.


Wolfowitz on Thursday confessed to errors over the World Bank's
handling of his Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza, but still faced
an open revolt from staff members agitating for his departure
after a stormy two years in charge.


Heading into the high-level talks, IMF chief Rodrigo Rato said
the world economy was poised to extend "one of the longest
sustained periods of growth in the modern era."


Despite a slowdown in the United States, and a slight
deceleration in Europe, the G7 ministers can bask in a generally
rosy outlook for global growth as Japan perks up and China leads
the charge for developing economies.


But currency rates were set to stoke debate about whether some
countries are getting a free ride for their exports.


The weakening Japanese yen is causing consternation in European
capitals, where finance chiefs are worried that the yen-euro
exchange rate is penalizing eurozone exporters.


At their last meeting in February, the G7 ministers called
explicitly on China to allow the yuan currency to appreciate, a
long-running demand of the US administration at a time when
Chinese imports are flooding American markets.


This time round, Germany was expected to renew its calls for
regulation of the trillion-dollar hedge-fund industry, whose
lucrative but high-risk investments are drawing serious cash from
big banks and public pension funds.


Industry representatives were scheduled to hold talks with G7
deputy ministers on Sunday.


However, the German campaign is resisted by the United States and
Britain, home to most hedge funds. And the IMF this week said
wise economic policies were a better bet against financial-market
instability than new regulation.


Berlin's demands could be undermined by the absence of German
Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck, who has decided to skip the G7
meeting to go on a family holiday in Namibia.


For the six-decade-old IMF, long a lender of last resort to
countries in financial difficulties, debate is intensifying about
how best to retool its voting rights to make the organization
more relevant to developing nations.


Tim Adams, the US Treasury's undersecretary for international
affairs, said other advanced economies should follow the US lead
in agreeing to dilute their own influence in the 185-member Fund.


"The IMF needs a package of meaningful reforms to safeguard its
relevance and legitimacy," he said in a pre-G7 briefing.


But European nations, which by tradition get to appoint the head
of the IMF, are reluctant to accept any serious loss of power
following a modest voting reform in September that increased the
say of China and three other countries.


Adams said the US government would also urge its G7 partners to
"reinvigorate" the World Trade Organization's stalled Doha round
of talks, especially in financial services.

