

Lebanon will not be driven back to civil war. That is the solemn
oath taken by activists displaying for the first time the rusty
bus on which a 1975 massacre sparked the country's 15-year
strife.


The bus, an oxidised shell, will be on display on Friday for the
32nd anniversary of the war's outbreak at a critical time when
many fear that deeply divided Lebanon may plunge back into
violence.


"This is the outcome of civil wars," said Sami Hamdan, owner of
the old Dodge bus as he knocked on the reddish brown metal of the
decaying vehicle.


"People get killed, everyone loses and everything gets destroyed.
All that's left will be a rusty carcass," the 61-year-old told
AFP.


Lebanon erupted into bloodshed on April 13, 1975, when Christian
militiamen machinegunned the bus carrying Palestinians in
Beirut's eastern suburb of Ain al-Rummaneh, hours after the
killing of a Christian outside a nearby church.


Twenty-seven passengers on board were killed and the civil war
began.


For the Lebanese, the conflict remains a stark memory of national
and personal loss during which fighting punctuated by savage
massacres left more than 150,000 people dead and even more
maimed, uprooted or forced to emigrate.


Since 1975, a black and white photograph of the bullet-riddled
Ain al-Rummaneh bus has been the haunting image of the outbreak
of the war, although the vehicle itself was never put on public
display.


The wrecked bus, completely empty bar a mangled back seat, now
stands idle in the central field of Beirut racetrack which was
once along the Green Line separating Beirut's Christian east and
its mostly Muslim western sector.


The racetrack is adjacent to the Beirut National Museum which was
the main crossing point in the once-divided capital, where
militias ruled the streets with killings, kidnappings and
extortions.


Under the slogan of "Remember it, don't repeat it," Friday's
April 13 remembrance activities include conferences and
exhibitions of wartime pictures, films, documents, songs,
newspapers and news bulletins.


"Former militiamen will also speak to the public about their
experiences during the war," organiser Ibrahim Eid told AFP.


"White sheets will be posted near the bus for the public to
express freely their feelings about the civil war," he added.


"We want to say that the Lebanese will not allow another civil
war to break out, and we want to warn new generations of the
atrocity and absurdity of wars," Hamdan said, adding that the
organisers asked him to bring the bus to the capital so it could
be put on show for the anniversary.


"The Ain al-Rummaneh bus was parked in a village in southern
Lebanon, so I had to put new tyres on it in order to tow it to
Beirut," said Hamdan, who drives a school bus for a living.


He bought the bus 25 years ago from its original owner, Abu Rida,
who was behind the wheel when it was attacked on that fateful
April day.


Abu Rida was slightly wounded during the attack, but his life was
saved when he ducked down and hid under the bodies of the
victims. He later repaired the vehicle and drove it again briefly
before selling it to Hamdan.


"I bought his bus because it was notorious. I also wanted a new
bus because my own had been hit by a shell that killed three
children and wounded 17 others," Hamdan said.


"I am a living martyr of Lebanon's wars -- that's why I want to
warn people not to do it again. I have been wounded and
kidnapped. In the Israeli attack last year the whole building
where I lived was destroyed," he said.


"In January, my bus was destroyed and transformed into a
barricade" during street battles between the government and
opposition militants which took a confessional turn and sparked
fears of a return to civil strife.


"I am a Shiite, but I respect all religions. I am against
confessionalism amd I hate all our leaders and politicians
because they are all liars," he said.


His ultimate dream?


"I want to put all our leaders on a bus and drive them to a
remote place where they treat disabled people because they all
need therapy," Hamdan said. "They are sick. They constantly seek
blood, violence and money."

