

Indonesian terror suspect Hambali has denied any links with Al-
Qaeda when he was member of the Southeast Asian Islamic extremist
group Jemaah Islamiyah, the Pentagon said Thursday.


Hambali, suspected of being a key JI member, was captured in
Thailand in 2003 and handed over to US authorities who are
detaining him at the Guantanamo Bay military base in Cuba.


JI has long been suspected of having ties to the Al-Qaeda
network, which was behind the September 11, 2001 attacks on the
United States.


The Pentagon on Thursday released the transcript of Hambali's
April 4 questioning by a military commission at Guantanamo.


According to the summary of evidence released by the Pentagon:
"The detainee was the operations chief of the Jemmah Islamiyah
and its main contact and point man for Al-Qaeda in Southeast
Asia."


But asked by a member of the military commission: "Mister
Hambali, did you have any association with Al-Qaeda while you
were a member of JI?" he replied via a translator "No."


Hambali, whose real name is Riduan Isamuddin, is one of the 14
suspects whose "enemy combatant" status is being examined by
military commissions at Guantanamo.


He was transferred to the base in September after having been
held in secret by the CIA since his arrest.


The military commissions are held behind closed-doors and the
findings are then published by the Pentagon after being censored.


The United States accuses Hambali of being behind an attack on an
Indonesian church on Christmas Eve 2000 which left 18 dead, and
of planning attacks on the embassies of the United States,
Britain and Australia in Singapore.


According to the evidence laid by the US against Hambali, he
orchestrated and funded the church bombing.


Hambali also discussed in early 2002 attacks on bars and night-
spots popular with Western foreigners in Indonesia, Malaysia,
Thailand and Singapore, according to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.


But Hambali told the military panel "I was not involved" in the
Indonesian church bombing. He also said he had "nothing to do
with" the Singapore embassies plot.


"You say in your statement that you resigned from JI in 2000.
What were your activities from the time you resigned from JI
until the time that you were captured?" a member of the military
panel asked.


"No answer," Hambali replied in English.


JI has been blamed for a string of attacks, including the 2002
Bali bombings which left 202 people dead.

