

Senegal warned Thursday it might pull its troops out of Sudan's
troubled Darfur region, where it has recently lost five soldiers,
unless the African Union (AU) guaranteed peacekeepers' security.


Senegal's Foreign Minister Cheikh Tidiane Gadio told reporters
the AU had not been given enough resources for the mission. He
also accused the Sudanese government of not meeting its
commitments.


"If in the weeks to come, the Sudanese government does not decide
to act consistently with its engagements and to understand the
point of view of the AU, we are going to withdraw our troops
because what has happened recently is unacceptable," he said.


The West African country's cabinet issued a statement saying the
government would consider withdrawing troops if the AU was not
"adequately equipped to ensure the security of the contingents
deployed on the ground."


The Senegalese statements came as the West African country paid
homage to its five soldiers ambushed while on peacekeeping duty
in Darfur on April 1.


Five of Senegal's more than 500 troops taking part in an African
peacekeeping force in Darfur were killed in an attack which Dakar
blamed on the rebel Sudan Liberation Army.


The attack was the worst to hit the embattled and under-funded AU
contingent since it was first deployed in the western Sudanese
region in 2004.


The fallen soldiers were posthumously decorated Thursday at a
solemn ceremony witnessed by weeping relatives, senior military
and state officials gathered at an army camp in downtown Dakar,
according to state television RTS.


Caskets carrying the soldiers' remains were draped in the multi-
coloured Senegalese flag and lined up next to each other.


Senegal deployed at least 500 troops in Darfur in 2005 as part of
the AU's 7,000-strong force deployed in the region.


The respected model of Africa's stable democracy has contributed
to most of the largest UN peacekeeping operation on the continent
including those in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Liberia and
Ivory Coast.


Sudan has come under growing international pressure to accept a
plan put forward by former UN chief Kofi Annan to beef up the AU
peacekeeping force in Darfur with UN forces.


But Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir has repeatedly rejected the
plan, accusing the West of harbouring neo-colonial ambitions.


The ill-equipped AU contingent has failed to stem the violence
and 16 of its troops have been killed there since 2004.


Four years of civil war in Darfur have killed at least 200,000
people and displaced more than two million, according to United
Nations figures.

