

Barely 500 paces from revolutionary leader Mao Zedong's resting
place in the heart of Beijing lies some of the hottest real
estate in China.


The new "traditional-style" courtyard homes planned for the
Chinese capital's historic Qianmen district just south of
Tiananmen Square are expected to fetch as much as 50 million yuan
(6.5 million dollars) each.


With those sorts of figures, Zhang Hailiang and his wife, Wang
Xiaolan, find it hard to understand why they have not been given
a cent for their old courtyard home that developers destroyed to
make way for the new.


Ten months after their 100-year-old house was demolished, the
couple continue to live in the rubble that was once their home,
refusing to move until the property developers or local
authorities give them someplace else to live.


"My heart is filled with anger and disappointment," Wang, 52,
told AFP as she stood on the jagged remains of a broken concrete
slab that a year earlier had been her living room floor.


"At the beginning we were promised another place to live. But we
have been cheated."


Since their two-storey house was demolished, Wang and Zhang, also
52, have lived in a makeshift hut just big enough to lie in and
which they erected in the rubble after scraping together wood and
other materials from the wreckage.


The roof of their hut, made of plastic sheets, was barely able to
take the harshest edge off the cold during the brutal northern
Chinese winter just passed, when temperatures regularly dropped
well below freezing.


Living off Wang's pension of 980 yuan (125 dollars) a month, they
struggle to buy anything but the simplest of essentials to
survive.


"We only eat the cheapest food. Meat and even vegetables are too
expensive sometimes," Zhang said, explaining their most common
meals are instant noodles and steamed buns.


Zhang said he was born and lived all his life in the house, which
his father had owned.


The real estate developer, however, told AFP that Zhang had not
been a resident in the house and had no claim to the property.


China's leaders have said repeatedly in recent years that land
disputes are one of the biggest social problems currently facing
China, and that they are determined to stamp out the problem.


Countless people are being kicked off their land or out of their
homes to make way for new property or industrial developments
without adequate compensation.


Sometimes, though rarely, the little man or woman wins.


In a case that made world headlines last week, a restaurateur in
southwestern Chongqing city who was dubbed the "Stubborn Nail"
for her defiance of a property developer was awarded an
extraordinary house and compensation package worth around four
million yuan (510,000 dollars).


More often, though, property developers and industrialists, in
collusion with local governments, emerge victorious, taking
control of the land and leaving those evicted to struggle through
a murky justice system or voice their anger through protests.


In Qianmen, the old trading and entertainment pulse of Beijing
that is undergoing a huge revamp ahead of the 2008 Olympics, more
than 12,000 people have been moved out of their homes to make way
for new buildings, according to a local government report.


Liu Anjun, a well-known rights activist in Beijing, said many
people in Qianmen had been forced from their homes, and the
problem infected much of Beijing.


"For all of Beijing there are about 2,600 families who refused to
leave their homes and have had their houses demolished without
their permission," Liu said.


According to the latest figures from the Ministry of Public
Security, there were 87,000 protests across the country in 2005,
up 50 percent from two years earlier, many of them to do with
land grabs.


But the plight of Zhang and Wang is more remarkable because it is
happening right under the noses of China's leadership.


Their home is about five minutes walk from the Great Hall of the
People, China's parliamentary building where lawmakers last month
passed an historic property law that was partly aimed at ending
such land grab disputes.


"Hu Jintao calls for a harmonious society," Zhang said, referring
to the current Chinese president's mantra about creating a fairer
China in which the rights of the marginalised are better
protected.


"But what is harmonious about what is happening to us?"


Zhang then angrily referred to the irony of the enormous roadside
billboards that are shielding the demolition of Qianmen's old
buildings, one of which bears the slogan: "Protect the historic
city, maintain the beauty of the ancient city."

