

After last season's famous duel between Arsenal and rivals
Tottenham for a coveted Champions League place, Arsene Wenger's
side find themselves in the same position 12 months on, with this
season's challenge coming in the unlikely shape of Bolton
Wanderers.


In truth, Arsenal expected better this season, as last year's
scrap was played out amid the backdrop of an impending appearance
in the Champions League final itself.


They were at least expected to challenge for the Premiership
title this season with the weight of their new 60,000-seater
stadium behind them.


Another tilt at Champions League glory should also not have been
unexpected.


This time the Gunners, who have played a game more than Bolton,
are just two points ahead of them in the race for the fourth
place spot which would give the Trotters access to wealth beyond
their wildest dreams.


That Arsenal are not among the frontrunners for major honours
this season is down to a chronic inability to convert chances, in
the absence through injury of long-time talisman Thierry Henry,
as midfielder Cesc Fabregas explains.


"We fought really hard against West Ham on Saturday and again at
Newcastle, so it has been 180 really hard minutes in less than 48
hours. It was a good challenge for us, it is just that the goals
did not come," said the Spaniard.


"We have to beat Bolton because we have to fight for the fourth
place and be in Europe next season, then forget about this
season.


"We cannot fight for anything else, so it is our job to make it.
We always try to win. I have never gone into a game without my
mentality of trying to win."


Wenger was left to rue the fact that his side had produced 27
efforts on target against struggling West Ham last Saturday, yet
they somehow contrived  to fall to their first defeat at their
new home.


In contrast, West Ham managed just one shot on target, and Bobby
Zamora's 45th minute strike proved the difference between the
sides, and provided a glaringly obvious example of the Gunners'
shortcomings.


Bolton's recent record against Arsenal is impressive, with Wenger
usually left complaining at what he perceives as the strong-arm
tactics of Sam Allardyce's team.


Captain Kevin Nolan, who has scored on his last two visits to
Arsenal, returns from suspension, and Allardyce still does not
see this match as the one which will seal qualification for
either side.


Instead, he is mindful of the threat still posed by Wenger's
talented side, as he aims to make Bolton the least glamourous
English club ever to have entered Europe's premier club
competition.


"They are still a force at the Emirates Stadium and no, I don't
think it is a Champions League decider," said the Bolton manager.


"We haven't beaten them at their place in the six years we have
been in the Premiership, although we came within a couple of
minutes last season.


"There is a terrific incentive to get our first win at Arsenal.
We've not got the best of run-ins. After this we are playing
Reading, West Ham and Aston Villa.


"I was worried when we were going through a bad patch recently
but we've shown a great improvement in the last few games.


"We know how to play against Arsenal and we are good at working
them out. There is no pressure on us whatsoever because we are
not expected to challenge or even get into the Champions League."

