

Thirty-two years on, Lebanon is again a country divided.


April 13, 1975 saw the start of a civil war that was to last for
15 years. That spectre has never been laid to rest, and on Friday
the country marks an anniversary it would prefer to forget.


The current political impasse in the so-called "Switzerland of
the Middle East" has led to scenes reminiscent of those horror
years and raised fears of a return to protracted civil strife.


In January deadly clashes between Shiites and Sunnis erupted in
Beirut as the political standoff between the Western-backed
government of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and the Syria-backed
Hezbollah-led opposition spilled over into violence.


Having hoped they had consigned the civil war years to the
history books, Lebanese now refer to the "Iraqisation" of their
country, in a reference to the sectarian violence now rampaging
to the east.


Before the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, the word
"Lebanonisation" was used to describe a country tearing itself
apart.


The civil war in the small eastern Mediterranean country killed
some 100,000 people, with thousands kidnapped and many others
"disappeared".


When the conflict ended in 1990, after military intervention by
Syria, Israel and the Palestinians and battles between militias
spawned by the conflict, the Lebanese once again embarked on a
path of peace.


But the assassination on February 14, 2005 of former prime
minister Rafiq Hariri and, paradoxically, the subsequent
departure of Syrian troops after years of Damascus domination,
changed everything.


The country is now split into two camps -- the Western- and
Saudi-backed government on the one hand, and the Syrian- and
Iranian-supported opposition on the other.


They cannot even agree on an identity for Lebanon.


"The country is under threat of partition," Justice Minister
Charles Rizk said in a televised debate last week.


Brewing for more than two years, the cauldron boiled over last
November with the resignation from Siniora's cabinet of six pro-
Syrian ministers, paralysing the anti-Damascus parliamentary
majority.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up an international tribunal to try suspects in Hariri's
murder, but this must first be ratified by the country's divided
parliament.


Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah, backed by Christian President
Emile Lahoud, has been pressing for the formation of a new
government of national unity in which the opposition would have a
minority veto.


But Siniora has ruled out early polls.


On Sunday Nasrallah proposed a referendum to resolve the
political deadlock between the pro- and anti-Syrian camps, saying
that the way to resolve domestic problems was "not to resort to
foreign parties but to the people."


Hezbollah would not allow itself to be dragged into a civil war,
he said: "We will continue to use peaceful, democratic and civil
means" of protest.


He said the Siniora government was deluding itself by counting on
major regional changes to transform the situation in Lebanon,
such as a US attack on Iran, another major backer of Hezbollah.


On Wednesday Sheikh Naim Qassim, the Shiite movement's number
two, charged in an interview with Britain's Guardian newspaper
that the United States was financing a secret war in Lebanon by
arming those in power.


US Vice President "Dick Cheney has given orders for a covert war
against Hezbollah... there is now an American programme that is
using Lebanon to further its goals in the region," Qassem said.


Since the January street clashes in which four people were killed
and 150 others were wounded, each side has accused the other of
rearming.


On Monday, Druze chief Walid Jumblatt, a leader of the
parliamentary majority, claimed that armed foreigners -- mainly
Syrian -- were entering the country illegally disguised as
building workers.


He accused Hezbollah of seeking to establish a Shiite "Hezbollah
republic" backed by Iran.


On Tuesday, however, another majority leader and former Christian
militia chief Samir Geagea said: ""We want no more war."


With the exception of Hezbollah, Lebanon's armed factions may no
longer have access to the heavy weaponry they used to such deadly
effect during the 15-year civil war.


However light arms are again widely available in a country where
extremist groups are keeping a wary eye open for future trouble.

