

Hundreds of lawyers and opposition party activists defied a
massive security crackdown Friday to hold new protests against
the dismissal of Pakistan's top judge by President Pervez
Musharraf.


Paramilitary troops and riot police guarded the Supreme Court in
Islamabad, where Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry was due
for the latest judicial panel hearing into allegations that he
abused his power.


Police arrested 200 people on Thursday ahead of the
demonstrations, while police sealed off Islamabad with roadblocks
and checked all vehicles entering the capital.


Military ruler Musharraf dismissed the independent-minded
Chaudhry on March 9, sparking nationwide demonstrations that have
since become a regular event whenever the judge appears at the
court.


Around 300 people including supporters of the Pakistan Muslim
League of former premier Nawaz Sharif and of the hardline
Jamaat-e-Islami party gathered in downtown Islamabad but were
kept away from the court, an AFP reporter said.


Many waved flags and chanted anti-Musharraf slogans although in
the early stages of the protest they were outnumbered by security
forces and journalists, the reporter said.


"We would not like any damage to be caused to public property and
want the protesters to be peaceful," Interior Minister Aftab
Sherpao told AFP.


A senior goverment official said the 200 arrests in Islamabad,
neighbouring Rawalpindi and other towns were "to prevent
potential troublemakers from coming onto the streets and creating
law and order problems."


Jamaat-e-Islami spokesman Ameerul Azeem said more than 50 of its
workers had been arrested in the police raids.


The Pakistan People's Party of former Prime Minister Benazir
Bhutto said "dozens" of its activists had been detained.


Bhutto and Sharif both live in exile and despite being bitter
enemies in the 1990s they have since formed the Alliance for the
Restoration of Democracy to oppose Musharraf's rule.


More than 2,000 angry lawyers as well as Islamist and secular
opposition activists rallied in front of the Supreme Court on
April 3 when Justice Chaudhry attended the third hearing of the
legal panel.


Opponents say Musharraf suspended Chaudhry illegally in a bid to
weaken the judiciary and make it easier to stay on as army chief
past 2007, when the constitution says he is meant to give up the
position.


Musharraf is also expected to seek re-election for another five-
year presidential term by the outgoing parliament ahead of
national polls due late this year or early next -- a move that
could also spark legal challenges.

