

AFP news calendar


Monday, April 16 to Sunday, May 13:


-----------------------------------


Monday, April 16


----------------


ABIDJAN: Ivory Coast to start dismantling a foreign-monitored
buffer zone dividing the rebel-held north from the government-
controlled south.


ANKARA: Parliament begins accepting candidacy applications for
presidential elections in May.


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia opens trial of Macedonian former interior minister
Ljube Boskovski, accused of war crimes over the killings of
ethnic Albanians during an uprising.


HELSINKI: End of official negotiations on the formation of a new
Finnish government.


LONDON: Trial opens of Levi Bellfield, suspected of having
murdered French student Amelie Delagrange in London in August
2004, and of the kidnap and attempted murder of five other women.


LONDON: Trial at the Old Bailey of five men accused of having
hidden information on terrorist attacks.


LUXEMBOURG: EU agriculture ministers meet (and 17).


MADRID: Trial of suspects in the March 11, 2004 Madrid bombings
continues. (Mondays-Wednesdays each week).


MOGADISHU: Beginning of a national conference of reconciliation,
which over the next two months will bring together 3,000
delegates representing civil society players in an attempt to
find a political solution to the ongoing civil war.


STRASBOURG: Council of Europe parliamentary assembly (to 20).


VATICAN CITY: Pope Benedict XVI marks his 80th birthday.


Tuesday, April 17


-----------------


GENEVA: International conference on displaced people in Iraq,
organised by UN High Commissioner for Refugees (and 18).


HELSINKI: Finland's new prime minister to be confirmed in
parliament.


MADRID: European conference on biofuel (and 18).


OSLO: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits (and 18).


ROME: Opening of trial of US marine Mario Lozano for the fatal
shooting in Iraq in March 2005 of an Italian secret agent.


SINGAPORE: World Continuity Congress on business continuity and
disaster recovery (and 18).


Wednesday, April 18


-------------------


CAIRO: Meeting of 12 Arab foreign ministers to discuss the
implementation of a Saudi-drafted plan for peace with Israel.


HARARE: President Robert Mugabe to make keynote speech as
Zimbabwe celebrates 27th anniversary of independence.


SINGAPORE: Singapore International Film Festival (to 30)


TEHRAN: Iran marks army day as the armed forces stage a march
paying tribute to the shrine of revolutionary founder Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini.


WARSAW: Czech President Vaclav Klaus visits (and 19).


Thursday, April 19


------------------


AIX LA CHAPELLE, France: Informal meeting of EU health ministers
(and 20).


BANGKOK: Thai military government plans to unveil new draft
constitution.


BEIRUT: Belgian Defence Minister Andre Flahaut and heir to the
throne Prince Philippe visit Lebanon (and 20).


BERGEN, Norway: Austrian President Heinz Fischer visits.


BERLIN: Informal meeting of EU Finance ministers (and 20).


BRUSSELS: Opening of trial of a Rwandan soldier for the 1994
killing of Rwandan prime minister Agathe Uwililgiymana and 10 UN
soldiers who were protecting him.


HELSINKI: Finnish President Tarja Halonen to appoint a new
government.


LONDON: Verdict expected on extradition of a former Iranian
ambassador, who is accused of trying to sell American military
material to Iran.


MUMBAI: Sentencing due to start for 100 people convicted for
roles in deadly bomb blasts in Mumbai in 1993 that claimed 257
lives.


NOUAKCHOTT: Mauritania's newly elected president sworn in,
marking the final stage in transition from military to civilian
rule.


OSLO: Conference on gender equality among the Sami people (and
20).


RHODES, Greece: Conference of European ministers and secretaries
of state in charge of EU affairs to discuss "a new policy on the
sea (and 20).


SINGAPORE: UN Environment Programme hosts summit on rising market
risks and business opportunities resulting from climate change
(and 20)


VATICAN CITY: Second anniversary of election of Pope Benedict
XVI.


Friday, April 20


----------------


LISBON: Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski visits.


LONDON: French Film Festival opens (to 26).


OHRID, Macedonia: Annual meeting of southeastern European
countries' presidents to discuss long-term energy stability and
economic development.


RABAT: Trial of two Belgians of Moroccan origin on terrorism
charges.


Saturday April 21


----------------


ABUJA: Presidential and legislative elections.


LONDON: Queen Elizabeth celebrates 81st birthday. (Official
celebrations will be June 17.)


Sunday, April 22


----------------


PARIS: First round of presidential election.


DAMASCUS: Syria holds legislative election.


SANAA: Yemeni appeal court to rule in the case of 23 nationals
sentenced to jail for trying to get to Iraq to join the
insurgency.


TRIPOLI: The trial resumes of six foreign medics on death row in
a Libyan AIDS case who face new charges of slandering police they
accuse of torture.


OKINAWA, Japan: Japan holds two by-elections for upper house of
parliament


Monday, April 23


----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel celebrates Independence Day marking the 59th
anniversary of the state's founding in 1948.


LONDON: Preliminary trial of pop star George Michael, who stands
accused of having driven while under the influence of drugs.


LUXEMBOURG: EU foreign ministers meeting.


SINGAPORE: An arbitration court to hear a dispute between
Singapore Airlines and its pilots over pay scales on the Airbus
A380.


STRASBOURG: European parliament session (to 26).


TALLINN: Slovakian Defence Minister Frantisek Kasicky visits (and
24).


Tuesday, April 24


----------------


CAIRO: Egypt football giants Ahly, Africa's top club, host
Barcelona as part of their centennial celebrations.


KATHMANDU: One-year anniversary of 2006 Nepal protests that led
to King Gyanendra ending his direct rule. Declared a national
"Democracy Day" holiday.


LUXEMBOURG: EU-Russia meeting.


YEREVAN: Day of commemoration of Armenian genocide. Declared a
national "Democracy Day" holiday.


Wednesday, April 25


-------------------


PARIS: World Water Congress (to 28).


SANTIAGO: Second South American meeting of the World Economic
Forum (and 26).


STRASBOURG: Council of Europe holds international conference on
terrorism, with 250 participants including from the UN and Club
of Madrid (and 26).


Thursday, April 26


----------------


GUERNICA, Spain: 70th anniversary of bombing of Guernica.


KUALA LUMPUR: Coronation of Malaysia's new king Tuanku Mizan
Zainal Abidin.


OSLO: Informal meeting of NATO foreign ministers (and 27).


RIGA: Belgian King Albert II visits.


TOKYO: Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko hold a spring garden
party at Akasaka Imperial Gardens.


WASHINGTON: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visits (and 27).


WURZBURG, Germany: Informal meeting of European ministers in
charge of issues of competition (to 28).


Friday, April 27


----------------


FES, Morocco: Sufi music festival.


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia holds status conference for trial of Ante Gotovina and
two other Croat generals charged with war crimes committed at the
end of the 1991-1995 Serb-Croat War.


PARIS: Campaigning opens officially for the second round of the
presidential election.


WARSAW: Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf visits (to 29).


WINDSOR, England: An exhibit opens in connection with Queen
Elizabeth II and Prince Philip's 60th wedding anniversary,
showing five royal marriages through photographs and documents
from the royal archives.


Saturday, April 28


------------------


CAIRO: Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's son Gamal marries
Khadiga el-Gammal, followed by celebrations on May 4.


Sunday, April 29


----------------


BAMAKO: First round of presidential election.


Monday, April 30


----------------


BELFAST: Smoking ban goes into effect in all public places and
workplaces in Northern Ireland.


PHNOM PENH: Foreign and Cambodian Khmer Rouge tribunal judges
meet in last ditch bid to approve internal rules needed for
genocide trials to go forward.


VIENNA: A preparatory committee of the parties to the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty hold a first session ahead of a 2010
review of the treaty (to May 11).


Wednesday, May 2


----------------


JERUSALEM: Israel's disgraced President Moshe Katsav presents his
defence on charges including rape and sexual harassment to the
attorney general who will then make a definitive decision on an
indictment.


Thursday, May 3


---------------


EDINBURGH: Scottish parliamentary elections.


LONDON: British municipal elections.


CARDIFF: Welsh parliamentary elections.


SHARM EL-SHEIKH, Egypt: Two-day high-level international
conference on Iraq (and 4).


Saturday, May 5


---------------


LISBON and OPORTO: Demonstration for the legalisation of
marijuana.


Sunday, May 6


-------------


DRESDEN, Germany: Meeting of G8 labour ministers.


OUAGADOUGOU: Burkina Faso legislative elections.


PARIS: Second round of French presidential election.


LISBON: Madeira regional elections.


Monday, May 7


---------------


BRUSSELS: Meeting of eurozone finance ministers.


BRUSSELS: European Union agriculture ministers meeting (and 8).


THE HAGUE: International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia starts trial of Ante Gotovina and two other Croat
generals accused of committing crimes against humanity during the
1991-1995 Serbo-Croat war.


Tuesday, May 8


---------------


BELFAST: Rival Protestant and Catholic leaders in Belfast
expected to resume power sharing after a landmark accord.


THE HAGUE: Preliminary hearings ahead of a trial at the Special
Tribunal for Sierra Leone of former Liberian leader Charles
Taylor, who faces charges of committing war crimes and crimes
against humanity.


Wednesday, May 9


---------------


GENEVA: World Trade Organisation council meeting.


SEOUL: North and South Korea hold another round of face to face
reunions for separated families.


Thursday, May 10


---------------


GOTHENBERG, Sweden: Some 40 vessels and 7,000 personnel attend
opening ceremonies of NATO's "Noble Mariner" naval exercises.


LISBON: World tourism conference. (up to 12)


Saturday, May 12


---------------


YEREVAN: Armenian legislative elections.


Sunday, May 13


---------------


BAMAKO: Second round of Mali's presidential elections.

