

Schalke 04 midfielder Fabian Ernst insisted on Thursday the
league leaders must win at relegation-threatened Mainz 05 on
Saturday if they have real aspirations of lifting their first
Bundesliga title.


The 24-time capped German midfielder missed last week's 2-0 win
at Borussia Monchengladbach serving a one-match suspension and is
desperate to face Mainz to keep Schalke's dream of finally
winning the Bundesliga.


Schalke won the last of their seven German titles in 1958 -
before the Bundesliga's inaugural season in 1963 - and it has
been a long wait for their fans.


They lead second-placed Werder Bremen by two points, but
Stuttgart, in third, and fourth-placed Bayern Munich are still
within striking distance should the leaders falter again.


Last weekend's win at Monchengladbach was only their second in
seven games, but Mainz, deep in the relegation battle and a point
from safety, will be fighting for their survival.


"We have to be wary of playing a side like Mainz, it's tight at
the bottom of the table and they're all fighting for survival,"
said Ernst.


"But if you want to win the league, you have to win in Mainz."


Schalke coach Mirko Slomka has minor injury concerns with Danish
striker Soren Larsen twisting an ankle in training and Halil
Altintop facing a fitness race to partner in-form striker Kevin
Kuranyi up front.


"A win could be a major milestone for us on the road to the
league title," said Slomka.


Second-placed Werder Bremen - who romped to a 4-1 win over AZ
Alkmaar in the UEFA Cup quarter-finals on Thursday with Miroslav
Klose ending his goal drought with a double - are at struggling
Borussia Dortmund, while Bayern Munich, in fourth, will be
looking to put the hurt of their Champions League exit behind
them against Bayer Leverkusen - both games are on Sunday.


So third-placed VfB Stuttgart's coach Armin Veh knows his side
must win at home to Hanover on Saturday in front of their
faithful fans to keep the pressure on the sides above them.


"Hanover are a good counter-attacking side," said Veh.


"They proved that when they beat Bayern Munich 1-0 earlier this
season, but we are confident and in good form. You can see that
at every training session and having 50,000 fans behind us will
do the team no end of good, as it has all season."


Stuttgart's top-scorer Mario Gomez is on the mend after a knee
injury, but is still several weeks away from a return.


After parting company with ex-coach manager Falko Goetz in
midweek after plummeting down the table to ninth having gone nine
games without a win, Hertha Berlin have Karsten Heine at the helm
away to mid-table VfL Bochum.


In the day's other games, there is a huge relegation tussle at
Arminia Bielefeld against Eintracht Frankfurt with the clubs
glaring at each other from either side of the relegation line.


Energie Cottbus entertain VfL Wolfsburg, with both sides in the
hunt for a UEFA Cup place, while Nuremburg should beat mid-table
Alemannia Aachen to try and move up one place into fifth to claim
a European place.


Bottom-side Borussia Monchengladbach face Hamburg at home on
Friday night and despite their ominous position six-points adrift
at the foot of the table, 53,000 tickets have already been sold
as the fans show their support.

