

Zhang Yimou's "The Curse of the Golden Flower" earned the most
nominations for Sunday's Hong Kong Film Awards but a gangster
saga and a family drama could share top honours, critics say.


Zhang's colourful martial arts epic has received 14 nods, while
Patrick Tam's "After This Our Exile" -- an art-house film about a
single and abusive father who turns to gambling -- earned 10
nominations.


Although director Johnnie To's gangster flick "Election 2" only
picked up five nods, it has been nominated in the coveted best
film and director categories, posing a strong challenge to Zhang
and Tam.


Film critics believe the two Hong Kong directors could beat "The
Curse of the Golden Flower", a Hong Kong-China co-production
starring Gong Li and Chow Yun- fat, in both major categories.


"The Hong Kong Film Awards is like the Oscars. It is very
political. The winners don't always reflect the quality of a
film," said movie critic Shum Longtin.


"'The Curse of the Golden Flower' is a very good film and my
personal favourite. But it is seen as a mainland Chinese film
with a mainland subject. So it could lose out," he said.


The sumptuous movie tells the story of an imperial family falling
into turmoil, with the emperor (Chow) gradually poisoning the
empress (Gong) after she had an affair with her step-son.


The film was nominated for best costume design at this year's
Oscars, and has also been recognised for its costume and make-up
design here, as well as in the best supporting actor category for
Jay Chou and Liu Ye.


For the best film gong, critic Jason Lam Keeto tipped "Election
2" to win, saying the drama about the city's triad gangs and how
the underworld has coped for the past 10 years under the iron
rule of Beijing has a winning storyline.


"Although 'Election 2' is not (To's) best film, the plot and what
he wanted to say makes it a very outstanding film. I believe that
it could win," Lam said.


To's other gangster movie "Exiled" has received four nominations,
including nods for best director and best film. But critics say
it is weaker than "Election 2" and has a lesser chance to top
both categories.


Tam could bag the best director prize, Lam says.


"Patrick Tam hasn't made a film for 17 years but when he does it
again, not only has he improved, this movie contains elements
that have been long lost in Hong Kong movies," Lam said.


"The editing is outstanding, the dialogue has been carefully
thought through; the film is stylish. You can tell that he has a
very strict requirement on each frame and each of the actor's
performance," he added.


Shum also believes that To and Tam will share the major gongs.


"Election 2 is a very ambitious and outstanding film and Tam's
movie was also good. The best film and best director prizes may
properly be split between those two," he said.


Tam's film won actor-singer Aaron Kwok his second consecutive
award for best actor in last year's Golden Horse Film Awards, the
Chinese-language Oscars, but critics believe he will lose in the
local awards.


Chow is expected to trump rivals for the best actor title, ahead
of the charismatic Tony Leung Chiu-wai of thriller "Confession of
Pain" and martial arts icon Jet Li for his portrait of master Huo
Yuanjia in "Fearless".


"Although Chow Yun-fat doesn't have as much screen time as Gong
Li, every time he appears, he is immediately the centre of
attention. He can be soft and he can be cruel. It was a very
strong performance," Lam said.


Critics believe Gong also stands out among her opponents and will
be crowned best actress.


"Gong Li should definitely win; there are no other possibilities.
She deserves it," Shum said.


The ceremony has struggled to attract much star power, with
Zhang, Gong and Jet Li all absent. Chow's attendance was also in
doubt, as he is shooting a film. Leung, Chou and Kwok are
expected on the red carpet.

