

The United States led international condemnation of Thursday's
deadly suicide bomb attack on Iraq's parliament complex, calling
it a cowardly assault on the fledgling democracy.


Eight people -- including at least two MPs -- were killed in the
attack in the cafeteria of the Baghdad parliament building
located in the heavily-fortified Green Zone, the US military
said.


"I strongly condemn the action. It reminds us, though, that there
is an enemy willing to bomb innocent people and a symbol of
democracy," US President George W. Bush told reporters.


The US leader said his message to the Iraqi people is: "We stand
with you."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said: "It's obviously
again the terrorists and those who wish to stop the Iraqi people
from having a future that would be based on democracy and
stability."


United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon said he was "deeply troubled" by
the attack. "Such violence, whatever the motives may be, cannot
be justified, can never be justified," he told reporters.


In a statement released by his press office, the UN secretary
general urged "all Iraqi leaders to come together in a spirit of
unity in order to stem the violence and work toward a more
peaceful and stable Iraq."


Britain and the Arab League also spoke out against the attack.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said: "Nothing could
highlight more the twisted minds of those who are seeking to
disrupt the democratic process in Iraq."


"Those who carry out these outrageous attacks offer nothing to
the Iraqi people except more murder and destruction. The Iraqi
people have shown great fortitude and courage -- they deserve our
full and continued support."


Arab League secretary general Amr Mussa "strongly condemns the
terrorist explosion which took place today in the Iraqi
parliament, ending the lives of a number of deputies and innocent
employees and injuring others," the Cairo-based organization said
in a statement.


Mussa's statement called on the Iraqi people to work together
against violence and sectarianism and to restore stability.


The attack prompted US officials to defend their new security
plan which has seen thousands of US troops deployed to Baghdad in
recent weeks to counter insurgent attacks and sectarian violence.


"There will be good days and bad days," Rice said. "But the
commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and working to
try to make the population more secure."


White House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe rejected
suggestions that the blast raises questions about the Baghdad
security plan. "No, I think it shows the determination of the
terrorists and extremists," he said.


"The terrorists will do everything they can to try to undermine a
government that is trying to bring peace and stability for the
people of Iraq," he added.


US Senator John McCain, a Republican presidential hopeful whose
support for the Iraq war has hurt his popularity, said the attack
should not deter the US security surge in Baghdad, which he has
just visited.


"I fully expect the enemy to try to orchestrate more spectacular
attacks, such as rocketing the Green Zone and other acts, which
would understandably grab the attention and the headlines in the
United States," he said.


"They realize that if they can erode the American public's will,
then they would be able to achieve success," he added.


"But I don't think that that should change the larger picture
which means we're achieving some small successes already with the
strategy being employed."

