

British gene hunters said Thursday they have found the strongest
DNA marker yet for obesity, and one that is very common among
most Europeans.


The investigators first identified the gene, FTO, in the DNA of
people with type 2, or late-onset diabetes, a condition that is
lifestyle-related.


They were surprised to find the marker was associated with
increased body fat rather than insulin production, so they
scoured other DNA databases to see if the gene predisposed a
person to obesity.


The results of that inquiry, the largest such undertaking of its
kind to date, revealed that a variant of FTO was closely
correlated with obesity, which has emerged as a major public
health challenge in many developed nations.


The study showed that half of white Europeans carry one or more
variants in their DNA, the researchers said.


Individuals with one copy of the FTO variant had a 30 percent
higher risk of being obese than people without it.


In people with two copies of the "fat" gene, the risk rose to 67
percent, and they packed an additional three kilograms (6.6
pounds) in fat on average compared to people without any copies
of the allele.


"Our findings suggest a possible answer to someone who might ask
'I eat the same and do as much exercise as my friend next door,
so why am I fatter?' There is clearly a component to obesity that
is genetic," said professor Andrew Hattersley, of the Peninsula
Medical School, Exeter, and study co-author.


It's not clear why the gene predisposes people for increased body
fat and higher rates of obesity, but it opens new avenues of
investigation for researchers looking into obesity and related
problems such as heart disease and diabetes, the researchers
said.


"Even though we have yet to fully understand the role played by
the FTO gene in obesity, our findings are a source of great
excitement," said professor Mark McCarthy of Oxford University.
"New scientific insights will hopefully pave the way for us to
explore novel ways of treating this condition."


The researchers have only looked at one ethnic group so far --
white Europeans from Britain, Finland, Italy and northern Europe
-- but they are confident that the findings will hold up in other
populations given the scope of the study.


Investigators examined the DNA of 39,000 people, more than 10
times the number used in a comparable earlier study.


The hope is to examine the DNA of African Americans and South
Asians next, the investigators told journalists in a conference
call. Problems with obesity and excess weight have been
documented in both populations.


The study was a collaborative effort involving 24 geneticists in
Britain. The project was funded by the Wellcome Trust, the
Britain's largest medical research charity.

