

Six members of Swaziland's main opposition party are to face
sedition charges after being arrested Thursday during a protest
against a ban on political parties in their country.


The demonstration, marking a 34-year ban on party politics in the
continent's last absolute monarchy, was organised by the Congress
of South African Trade Unions and other pro-democracy
organisations on the South African side of the border post.


Initially it was reported that up to 40 opposition activists,
including the leaders of one of government's strongest opponents,
the People's United Democratic Movement (Pudemo), were arrested.


It turned out however that Pudemo president Mario Musuku was
merely escorted back to his home after trying to cross the border
to South Africa to join the protest.


Police spokesman Vusi Masuku told AFP the six had been found in
possession of "seditious materials", understood to include pro-
democracy pamphlets.


The six were to appear in court on Friday.


The late King Sobhuza II banned political parties in the southern
African kingdom on April 12, 1973.


Despite the implementation of a new constitution in 2006, which
allows for freedom of association, political parties are still
not allowed to take part in elections.


Swaziland's King Mswati III has also attracted criticism for the
lavish lifestyle he and his 13 wives lead in a country where more
than half of the 1.1 million inhabitants live below the poverty
line and some 40 percent of adults are HIV infected, the highest
rate in the world.


The government claims the people want direct representation in
parliament through the Tinkhundla system based on traditional
constituencies, but opposition groups say this is undemocratic.


"The (parties) campaigning for democracy in Swaziland are here
today to support the oppressed people of Swaziland in their
struggle for freedom and democracy and human rights," said
Manamela.


Swaziland, though peaceful, is wracked by widespread corruption,
nepotism and crippling poverty.

