

US researchers have identified microscopic traces of soft tissue
taken from a 68 million-year-old T-rex fossil in a startling
discovery that is yielding clues to evolutionary links between
dinosaurs and birds, a study released Thursday said.


The tiny protein fragments were extracted from the leg bone of a
Tyrannosaurus rex that was discovered in the western state of
Montana in 2003, but it wasn't until recently that scientists
were able to definitively identify them as traces of prehistoric
dinosaur collagen.


The collagen should have degraded millions of years before
according to conventional wisdom, but paleontologists at North
Carolina State University were fairly confident that what they
had was the "barely detectable" remains of dinosaur soft tissue
based on their chemical and molecular analyses.


However, they could not definitively say that, so they turned to
biochemist John Asara at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical School in
Boston to make that determination.


It took Asara a year and a half, but he was finally able to
sequence the amino acids in the collagen proteins - a proxy for
DNA analysis - and conclude that the T-rex femur did indeed
contain traces of collagen, a fibrous protein found in bone.


When the researchers compared those amino acid sequences to those
of similar proteins in several contemporary animals, they found
that the T-rex sequence had similarities to those of chickens,
and to a lesser extent frogs and newts.


That finding bolsters a recent and controversial proposal that
birds and dinosaurs are evolutionarily related, and change that
hypothesis to a theory, the researchers said.


"Most people believe that birds evolved from dinosaurs, but
that's all based on the architecture of the bones," said John
Asara, who is director of mass spectrometry at Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical School.


"This allows you to get the chance to say Wait, they really are
related because their sequences are related.' We didn't get
enough sequences to definitively say that, but what sequences we
got support that idea."


More broadly, the discovery challenges long-held assumptions
about the process of fossilization, which in turn opens up new
avenues of investigation in the field, the researchers said.


Until now it was assumed that organic matter such as proteins
could not survive past a million years, but this discovery shows
that ancient proteins can provide genetic clues to organisms that
are millions and millions of years old even if they are only
marginally viable as they were in this case.


"For centuries, it was believed that the process of fossilization
destroyed any original material, consequently no one looked
carefully at really old bones," said Mary Schweitzer, an
assistant professor of paleontology at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh, and one of several researchers who worked
on the project.


But if molecular data from fossils can be retrieved and analyzed,
it may be able to verify current ideas about relationships
between fossil and living organisms and between groups of
distinct organisms that have no modern descendants.


"This interplay between the fossil record and the molecular
record is going to become more and more useful in understanding
both ends of the evolution of life on this planet," she told
journalists on a teleconference.


"It's really exciting."


On a more practical level, the findings will probably change the
way paleontologists view and treat future fossils, said Lewis
Cantley, professor of systems biology at Harvard School of
Medicine.


"I think what this says is that when people make new discoveries
now, if they want to get maximum information out, they have to
immediately handle material in a way that first of all will avoid
contamination and second, ensure that whatever is there gets well
preserved because it can be interrogated."


Inevitably, a lot will depend on the condition of the fossil.
This fossil was preserved in sandstone 60 feet below the ground
and the porosity of the sandstone may have been a factor in the
survival of these soft tissues, the researchers said.


Even so, it took the biochemists on the team a year and a half to
sequence the amino acids in the proteins using highly sensitive
mass spectrometry techniques that first broke the proteins down
into fragments of 10 to 20 amino acids and then configured them
into a sequence.


The study is published in the journal Science and was a
collaborative effort between Schweitzer, Cantley and Asara, and
Jack Horner, Regents Professor of Paleontology at Montana State
University, who provided the fossil.

