

Former world champion Tom Boonen will be among the Belgians
feeling the weight of expectation ahead of arguably the toughest
one-day race in the world at Paris-Roubaix this Sunday.


The 'Hell of the North', as the 111-year-old race is known, has
been won only once by the 26-year-old Belgian star.


However given the Belgians' comparatively sorry series of
performances in the one-day classics this month Boonen,
countryman Leif Hoste and Peter Van Petegem will be desperate to
redress the balance.


All three are among a handful - which includes defending champion
Fabian Cancellara, Italian Alessandro Ballan and American George
Hincapie - who possess some of the many ingredients which go into
taming one of cycling's mythical races.


Cancellara proved the strongest of a battered and bruised bunch
last year when he escaped late on to finish in the Roubaix
velodrome on his own.


Having honed his Roubaix form during Ballan's finish line
dominance of Hoste at the Tour of Flanders last Sunday,
Switzerland's reigning world time trial champion is ready to step
up a gear for the defence of his crown.


"I only needed this race to be ready for next week (Paris-
Roubaix)," said Cancellara after finishing out of contention at
Flanders.


But Paris-Roubaix is not everyone's cup of tea.


Many of cycling's big stars avoid the race and it's treacherous
28 cobblestoned sections - which amount to around 50km of the
race's 259km - like the plague.


Former winner Johan Museeuw, dubbed the 'Lion of Flanders',
famously crashed in the famed Arenberg Forest sector in 1998. As
he fought off gangrene and the threat of losing his leg, he
threatened to quit the sport.


At least Museeuw tasted victory, winning three times in 1996,
2000 and 2002.


Hincapie has come agonisingly close to registering a first
American win in the race over many consistent performances this
past decade.


But each time the big New Yorker has either been beaten by
rivals, or one of the numerous variables which make racing Paris-
Roubaix a huge lottery.


On the day you might have the legs, but a puncture at the wrong
time can spell disaster.


And sometimes the bikes are just not up to the task. In 2006
Hincapie's steerer failed at the stem just above the headset,
leading to a crash and him fracturing his collarbone and shoulder
blade.


It's no wonder that Spaniard Oscar Freire, a three-time world
champion and two- time winner of Milan-San Remo, will be among
those watching the six-hour epic from the comfort of his
armchair.


"I prefer to watch it on TV," Freire said after his third-place
finish in another cobbled classic, Gent-Wevelgem, on Wednesday.


"It's true that if you don't go, you don't win. But I did it once
in my first year as pro and I crashed. And if you crash, you're
out for a while."


If the events of Gent-Wevelgem are any indicator, this year's
105th edition of Paris-Roubaix could be a nightmare.


Several top riders fell victim to a tricky cobbled descent in
midweek, leading, among others, to Boonen losing his Quick Step
teammate Wilfried Cretskens to a right arm knock.


Belgian cycling fans are getting concerned having failed so far
to win at Flanders and Wevelgem, where 23-year-old German Marcus
Burghardt of T-Mobile claimed his first pro win.


Ballan's win in Flanders has also not gone unnoticed, and the
Lampre rider - who was promoted to third place in last year's
Paris-Roubaix after three riders were disqualified for breaching
a railway crossing in the final 10km - is keen to show he can do
even better.


"I'm happy because I showed I can handle a race of 260
kilometres," said Ballan after his Flanders victory. "Now Roubaix
is ahead. My legs are there, and so is the desire."

