

Rival captains Stephen Fleming and Graeme Smith will face a
dilemma if they win the toss when New Zealand and South Africa
meet in a crucial World Cup Super Eights match at the Grenada
National Stadium Saturday.


Both will be tempted to send their opponents in to take advantage
of expected early life in the pitch but both have had their
tactics backfire spectacularly after calling correctly in recent
matches.


The two results in the newly rebuilt stadium will not have helped
them make up their minds.


South Africa hammered a massive 356 for four when they were sent
in by West Indies Tuesday, winning by 67 runs, while New Zealand
made a disastrous start after Fleming decided to bat against Sri
Lanka Thursday, going on to lose by six wickets.


Both of South Africa's defeats in the tournament came after Smith
opted to field first when they lost by 83 runs against Australia
and when they suffered a shock 67-run setback against Bangladesh.


The pitch for the New Zealand-Sri Lanka match was slower and
drier than it was when South Africa played two days earlier,
adding to the uncertainty for the captains.


New Zealand were pace-setters in the Super Eights phase, winning
their first four matches and topping the table on run rate before
they lost against Sri Lanka.


But they have a tough run-in, with the match against South Africa
followed by a clash with defending champions Australia here on
April 20, which could mean they get stuck on eight points.


"We have had a good run so far at the tournament," said Fleming.


"Against Sri Lanka was the first time we were really tested and
put under pressure and we didn't come through. It is
disappointing but we are a better side than that."


South Africa, meanwhile, will move to eight points if they win
Saturday but because they have the worst run rate of the semi-
final contenders they will probably need to win their final match
against England in Barbados Tuesday to ensure they do not risk
being squeezed out in the event of a tie on points.


South Africa's batting was spectacular against the West Indies,
with opener AB de Villiers making an explosive 146, backed up by
half-centuries by Jacques Kallis, Herschelle Gibbs and Mark
Boucher.


But there have been question marks about the South African
bowling, with opening pair Shaun Pollock and Makhaya Ntini yet to
make significant inroads at the start of an innings.


New Zealand'ss Shane Bond is the fastest bowler at the World Cup
and his strike bowling was a key element of his team's success in
the opening weeks.


For the rest, New Zealand have steady seam bowlers and the left-
arm spin of Daniel Vettori.


It is likely that off-spinner Jeetan Patel will come into the
side in place of seamer Mark Gillespie.


Fleming said it had been a 50-50 decision between the two
bowlers.


Given the way the Sri Lanka match went, and South Africa's
perceived weakness against spin, Patel is likely to get the nod.


New Zealand may also ponder whether to pick Ross Taylor or Hamish
Marshall to fill the number three batting position. Taylor was
the preferred choice but missed three matches because of injury
and failed to score on his return against Sri Lanka.


South Africa's ability to bounce back against the West Indies
after losing to Bangladesh gave the side renewed confidence and
Smith said after the match that his team had resolved to play
positive, attacking cricket after being tentative against
Bangladesh.

