

Nigerians on Saturday elect governors and legislators for the
country's 36 states in a rehearsal for a presidential vote next
week and with police on alert for violence.


Amid major voter worries over widespread corruption, major
parties see Saturday's vote as an indicator of their chances in
the April 21 election of a successor to President Olusegun
Obasanjo, who is ending his second four-year term.


The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) controls 28 states and
a top party official predicted the PDP would win more this time,
including Lagos state, which has been controlled by the
opposition Alliance for Democracy (AD) since 1999.


"Lagos is key to our victory," PDP's regional vice chairman Bode
George said. Lagos Governor Bola Tinubu warned however against
turning the state into "a war zone".


Police are on election alert for political violence. In the past
nine months two governorship candidates have been assassinated
and several dozen others have also been killed.


Oil-related violence in the Niger Delta has also reached such a
level that European Union observers monitoring the elections will
not deploy to the three major oil states, Rivers, Bayelsa and
Delta, for security reasons.


But federal police spokesman Haz Iwendi told AFP: "We are ready
for Saturday's poll. The Inspector General of police has put all
state police commissioners on the alert to ensure adequate
security in their respective states."


"Nigeria cannot afford to fail. The international community is
watching events in Nigeria. If we fail, the entire continent of
Africa has failed because we are the largest democracy in the
continent," he added.


Independent National Election Commission (INEC) boss Maurice Iwu
also sought to ease fears of trouble. "Everything will be done to
ensure that Nigerians are able to freely elect the leaders of
their choice."


Many Nigerians are also worried about corruption though as they
consider their election choices.


A poll published this week by The Guardian daily indicated that
30 per cent of Nigerians see corruption as a key issue in the
forthcoming elections and 19 per cent say candidates are
motivated by selfish interests.


The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is
investigating 15 incumbent governors. Several others have been
removed from office and two are on the run.


Heads started to roll in 2005 when the Bayelsa governor, Diepreye
Alamieyeseigha was arrested in London. British police seized 1.8
million pounds (2.7 million euros) from one of his houses.


For this poll the election commission has accepted only "credible
aspirants from the 50 registered political parties," according to
its spokesman Segun Adeogun.


INEC has already eliminated a large number of candidates
suspected of being corrupt on the recommendation of the EFCC and
"will not hesitate to disqualify a candidate at the last minute
if necessary", Adeogun continued.


The opposition however accuses the anti-graft agency of pursuing
only the political adversaries of the outgoing president.


In a country where state governors often move around with a
convoy of 15 cars or more and a television crew, many politicians
see such posts as a way to get rich quick by stealing state
funds.


In Lagos, one of the most populous states and therefore one set
to receive the biggest allocation of federal funds, 22 candidates
are jostling for the governorship post and 392 for the 40 local
state parliament seats.

