

Morocco has proposed an autonomy referendum in the disputed
territory of Western Sahara, but an Algerian-backed group
fighting Rabat's rule put forth a contrary plan to end the
32-year conflict, officials said Thursday.


The Moroccan proposal, submitted to UN chief Ban ki-Moon on
Wednesday, envisages giving locals "control over their affairs
through legislative, executive and judicial institutions" under
the aegis of Moroccan sovereignty and calls for "negotiations for
a political solution acceptable to all parties."


It says the autonomous parliament should comprise members of the
diverse tribes and be directly elected, according to an extract
published Thursday in the Nishane weekly whose authenticity was
confirmed by a Moroccan official.


"Autonomy following negotiations should be put to a referendum
involving  all concerned parties in line with the principles of
self-determination and the charters of the United Nations," a
text of the copy said.


Western Sahara will control agriculture, investment, trade,
tourism and industry but Morocco would retain the "attributes of
sovereignty" in the region with its flag, money and national
anthem, the proposal said.


Morocco annexed the desolate but phosphate-rich northwest African
territory after the withdrawal of the region's former colonial
power Spain and neighbour Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it
with around 300,000 Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed Polisario Front, an armed
group which contested Rabat's sovereignty, ending only in 1991
with a UN-brokered ceasefire.


The Polisario Front meanwhile also submitted a completely
different plan to the UN on Wednesday and rejected the Moroccan
proposal, upholding "the right of the (local) people for self-
determination."


"We are ready to negotiate with Morocco for holding a referendum
and we are ready to provide necessary guarantees for the period
following it," said Mohammed Khaddad, Polisario coordinator at
MINURSO, the UN Mission for Western Sahara.


Khaddad said there were roughly 150,000 Moroccans living in the
area as well as 130,000 troops adding that his group wanted a
"joint and equitable sharing of resources."


The front said its proposal was "flexible and constructive ...
guaranteeing the national rights of the people."


US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns, who was briefed on
the proposal by a Moroccan delegation on Tuesday, has called it
"a serious and credible proposal to provide real autonomy for the
Western Sahara."


"The United States hopes Morocco's presentation of its initiative
to the United Nations will spur discussion and create an
opportunity for Morocco and the Polisario (independence movement)
to engage in direct negotiations, without preconditions, to
resolve the Western Sahara dispute," he said in a statement.

