

China's state media hailed Friday a landmark visit by Premier Wen
Jiabao to Japan, arguing the two nations needed stable ties but
warning that their painful history should be dealt with
"properly."


"The next five to 10 years will be an extremely important period
for China. In this period, China needs a stable, peaceful
international environment to develop its economy and society,"
the Beijing News said in an editorial.


"A good, stable Sino-Japanese relationship will help China avoid
unnecessary risks and crises and exploit its development
potential even further," said the paper, one of the capital's
most popular dailies.


In an address to Japan's parliament in Tokyo Thursday, Wen made a
call to put aside bitter memories of the past that have hobbled
relations between the two Asian giants.


In the speech, the first for 22 years by a Chinese leader to the
Japanese legislature, Wen urged Japan not to forget its past but
acknowledged its people had also been the victims of war.


"While facing the future, the two countries should squarely
confront their history. By properly handling the history issue,
they will be able to move towards a new spring," the Beijing News
said.


The vast majority of Chinese newspapers, however, refrained from
editorialising, stating merely the facts of Wen's trip.


The People's Daily, the mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party,
carried no opinion pieces on Wen's visit but its front page was
dominated by the event, with a color photo of Wen seated next to
Emperor Akihito.


The China Daily, in one of the few other editorials, pointed to
the strategic logic behind Sino-Japanese rapprochement.


"Rapid economic development has made China a growing presence on
the world stage, while Japan is ambitious to play a bigger
political role in international affairs," it said.


"Despite icy periods, China-Japan relations rest on a foundation
as solid as Mount Tai and Fujiyama," it said, referring to holy
mountains in the respective countries and echoing a quote Wen
made in Tokyo.

