

Russia's undefeated WBA heavyweight champion Nikolai Valuev is
only two fights away from equalling one of boxing's most
prestigious unbeaten records.


But the massive seven-footer insists he will not be thinking of
legend Rocky Marciano when he bids to add Uzbek challenger Ruslan
Chagaev to his 47-strong list of victims and retain his title
here on Saturday.


Victory for the 33-year-old, known as the 'Beat from the East',
would move him to within one win of Marciano's 49-0 record - and
potentially a lucrative clash with current IBF title-holder
Wladimir Klitschko.


Valuev is mustard keen to stamp his name on the record books, but
he was at pains to point out his respect for Chagaev, who
nonetheless stands some 11 inches below him, and was not taking
his challenge lightly.


"I only take one fight at a time. My mind is on Chagaev now. That
is all I think about," said Valuev, who has been fighting on the
circuit for the past 14 years.


"I am in perfect shape and ready."


Valuev's coach Manuel Gabrelian insisted that the massive height
advantage would not prove a problem against Chagaev, whose record
reads 22 wins, 17 inside the distance, and one draw.


"It has not affected our preparations at all," Gabrelian said.


"Niko is used to fighting smaller opponents. It won't make a
difference for him."


While both Valuev and Gabrelian were relatively piano over the
possibility of the champion having an easy time of it, there was,
unsurprisingly, no such modesty from the irrepressible boxing
promoter, Don King.


"It is going to be a great fight," vowed King.


"Chagaev is a formidable challenger but there is no question that
Nikolai will win. He is the eighth wonder of the world. He is a
giant with a giant heart."


Chagaev, who beat former world champion John Ruiz - the man from
whom Valuev took the title - to earn the right to challenge for
the crown, spent some time of his training camp sparring with his
coach Michael Timm, while the latter stood on boxes to give his
fighter some idea of the height disadvantage.


However to the plucky Uzbek size is not everything, the hunger
for the world crown is everything.


"Big or small - that does not matter. I have the ambition to
become world champion," he said.


"It will be a tough fight but I want to win."

