

Foreign powers trying to broker peace in Ivory Coast will meet
Friday to review progress since the warring parties secured a
peace deal last month, the UN said.


The International Working Group (GTI), which meets about once a
month, is to go into session just days after the appointment of
the west African country's new government led by rebel leader-
turned Prime Minister Guillaume Soro.


"This meeting is GTI's first since the Ouagadougou agreement
(signed by Soro and President Laurent Gbagbo)," said Hamadoun
Toure, spokesman of the UN mission here.


Gbagbo and Soro secured a historic peace deal last month to end
the low-key but protracted civil conflict in this cocoa rich
country, which has been politically and militarily divided into
two for the past four years.


Set up in October 2005, the mediators, who comprise the UN,
African and Western diplomats have been overseeing the
implementation of a UN-backed peace plan.


But the UN plan was apparently sidelined when the protagonists
sealed a new deal brokered by neighbouring Burkina Faso leader
Blaise Compaore.


The agreement gave Soro the post of prime minister and removed a
foreign-troop patrolled buffer zone which divided the country
into a rebel-held north and government-run south. It also
provides for the holding of elections this year.


Toure said the UN Security Council will decide next month whether
to maintain the working group. "It is not up to the GTI to
dissolve itself," he said.


Several diplomatic sources in Abidjan are of the view that
Friday's meeting could be the working group's last.


The conflict in Ivory Coast dates from 2002, when Soro staged a
failed coup against Gbagbo. Two years of talks laboured over
issues such as disarmament and identification of voters,
prerequisites for oft-delayed polls.


The UN deployed an 8,000-strong peacekeping force, assisted by
3,5000 French soldiers, to patrol a ceasefire line and prevent
fresh fighting.


Security Council officials flew into Ivory Coast this week to
determine how best the UN could contribute to the implementation
of the new peace deal.

