

TV, Internet, mobile phone, video game and advertising execs from
around the globe gather in this Riviera seaside resort from
Monday to brainstorm about how to propel their converging worlds
into the future.


The five-day MIPTV/MILIA is one of the world's largest
broadcasting and audiovisual trade shows. And as increasing
numbers of TV fans turn to the Internet, video-on-demand and
cellphones for their entertainment fix, the show looks set to be
busier than ever, industry watchers say.


New trends expected to create big interest will include the
"green" TV programmes starting to emerge on the market, as well
as the interactive virtual reality worlds -- "Second Life" and
"Cyworld" -- that have taken the online world by storm.


Ground-breaking ways to advertise and reach audiences across the
host of new audiovisual and digital platforms will also take
centre stage.


All eyes, therefore, will be on the MIPTV/MILIA "Content 360"
international competition created last year to generate
innovative, interactive entertainment that works on the Web,
mobile phones and other new media platforms.


"Content 360 brings together the creative ideas and digital
applications, which are key ingredients in the new multi-platform
world," said MILIA director Ted Baracos. "It also provides an
unparalleled networking and financing opportunity between
traditional and new media."


With the traditional broadcasting world facing a host of new
challenges from the growing online and digital media, the high-
level brainstorming conferences that run in parallel with a
frenzied five days of TV and video buying and selling, are star
attractions.


Virtual online world pioneer Philip Rosedale, creator of the 3D
online world of "Second Life", and Hyun-Oh Yoo of Korea's smash
hit "Cyworld", will give their visions of how to engage audiences
and brands in the new virtual worlds.


And media visionary Gerhard Zeiller, CEO of leading European
network RTL, will share his view of how traditional media is
fighting back.


Green issues will be another hot topic, spurred on by the success
of Al Gore's Oscar-winning documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" on
the perils of global warming.


Renowned French photographer and hot air balloonist Yann Arthus-
Bertrand will receive the first-ever MIPTV/MILIA Green World
Award for his work to increase global awareness of environmental
issues.


"Television has a huge impact on public opinion and education,
and the creation and broadcasting of environment-focused
programming is extremely important. The series of documentaries
inspired by Yann Arthus-Bertrand's 'Earth From Above', which
depict the world's most pressing environmental challenges, is an
excellent example of this," said Paul Zilk, CEO of Reed MIDEM,
the show's organisers.


With 11,914 TV buyers so far signed up to attend, eight percent
more than at the same date last year, buying is expected to be
brisk.


A couple of major European broadcasters, including Britain's ITV
channel and Italian state broadcaster RAI, are scrapping the
reality shows that have dominated TV screens worldwide over the
past few years. But that is unlikely to dint buying enthusiasm
for the multitude of reality shows on offer that span all tastes
from the whacky to the outrageous.


Drama is expected to again be a popular choice, though the recent
trend for dark, complex plots is giving way to lighter, more
upbeat series, the influential trade magazine "Variety" recently
reported.


The romantic telenovelas that have long kept Latin American
screens spellbound continue to gain pace around the world,
spurred on by the runaway success of "Ugly Betty" in the United
States.


Hopes are also high that the emerging audiovisual and cellphone
markets in Eastern Europe, India and the Middle East will help
set the tills ringing for new players in the market.


Asia is expected to attend the show in force, led by Japan and
South Korea, with 237 and 228 exhibitors, respectively. In the
build-up to the Beijing Olympics, China will more than double its
presence this year with 124 exhibitors, and Australia and South
Korea are among the top 10 exhibiting countries.


Of the total 102 countries on hand, 10 percent more than last
year, the new boys on the block include Bangladesh, Belarus,
Macedonia, Senegal and the Democratic Republic of Congo.


The event will be preceded by the two-day MIPDOC marketplace for
documentaries.

