

Shane Warne has ruled out acting in a coaching role to old enemy
England.


The record-breaking Test match bowler, who retired with 708
wickets to his name after the 5-0 Ashes drubbing, insists that he
is only concentrating on the captaincy of Hampshire ahead of the
new English county championship season.


"I'm not even thinking about coaching at the moment. I have
enough on my plate leading Hampshire," said Warne who added,
however, that he was always keen to pass on advice to young
spinners.


"I'm always happy to talk to anyone. I've never been one not to
help other players if they feel I can help them.


"I talk to other spinners all the time, and I had a long chat
with Monty Panesar last summer and I hope that helped him."


Warne told the BBC that with the likes of England batsman Kevin
Pietersen in the side, he was confident that Hampshire could win
their first county championship title since 1973.


"We're quietly confident we can go all the way. Obviously, every
county thinks that at the start of the season but we believe
we're one of the best sides in the competition," said Warne who
will also have Australian international teammate Stuart Clark
leading the seam attack.


"Stuart is one of the best fast bowlers in the world at the
moment. He's a great asset and as a captain it's tremendous to
have someone like him to throw the ball to and say: 'Get me a
wicket'."


The county championship starts on April 18 with Warne hoping that
if  England fail to make the World Cup semi-finals, he can call
upon Pietersen immediately.


"I'm not sure how long England will last in the World Cup, but I
would be disappointed if players aren't available for their
counties," said Warne.


"(England coach) Duncan Fletcher might not want them to play for
their counties and ask for them to be rested.


"But the ECB pays their wages and I hope they would override him
and order them to play.


"Having Kevin Pietersen around is going to help us, and I'm sure
Lancashire think the same way about Freddie Flintoff and Saj
Mahmood.


"I think everyone likes to see England do well, and they may
sneak into the semi-finals and hit form at the right time.


"But there's part of me that wants to see them get knocked out so
it makes Pietersen available for us."

