

Jerry Kelly fired 10 birdies in an eight-under 63 here Thursday
to grab the first-round lead in the US PGA's Heritage.


The performance, dimmed only by two bogeys, saw Kelly continue
the solid form he showed at the Masters, where he finished in a
tie for fifth.


"There was a point out there that I didn't know how many
(birdies) I had," Kelly said. "It was kind of fun."


Kelly, who had missed the cut in five of seven events before the
Masters, enjoyed his best round of the year at Harbor Town Golf
Links on Thursday.


He played both the front and back nine at 4-under, missing the
course record by one shot.


"It was a solid ball-striking day and a solid putting day," Kelly
said. "I had a lot of kick-ins, but I made some 20-footers, which
was a good combination."


South African Ernie Els, who has six top-10 finishes in eight
previous trips here, opened the round birdie-eagle and was second
on 65. It was a good way to start forgetting his week at Augusta
National, where he missed the cut.


"I birdied the first and then I eagled the second," Els said. "So
that was really the perfect start I could ask for.


"I got in a good frame of mind, and felt like I hit the ball
solidly. My game was in good shape."


Jose Coceres of Argentina and Stephen Leaney of Australia were
both three shots back on 66.


Fresh off his stunning triumph at the Masters, Zach Johnson
signed for a 1-under 70.


No Masters champion since Vijay Singh in 2000 had even bothered
to show up here, a major reason why no Masters winner has added
the Heritage's tartan coat and a green jacket to his collection
since Germany's Bernhard Langer in 1985.


Johnson had two bogeys and a double-bogey in a four-hole stretch
to fall into a tie for 20th.


"If anything about last week I think about, it's just the
positive," said Johnson. "It's the rhythm I had out there, the
putts that I saw drop, and the tempo of my golf swing that I
thought carried me through. I'm trying to focus on those and
nothing else. Fortunately, I was able to come through with a
decent round today."


Kelly, who finished three shots behind Johnson at Augusta, knows
it's just the beginning of a long weekend.


"It's a great start, that's all it is, is a start," Kelly said.
"I mean there's no sense in talking about winning or anything
like that. It's Thursday. Who knows who wins? Who cares?"


Kelly benefitted from playing in the first group, before the
difficult winds picked up.


Els and Els and J.P. Hayes (67) were the only afternoon starters
to mount a charge.


The par-three 17th proved key for both.


Els hit his tee shot into the right bunker guarding the green,
but blasted his second shot out from nearly 30 feet into the hole
for a birdie.


Hayes was tied with Els at 6-under before spraying his tee shot
into the water and eventually settling for a double bogey.


"Got kind of lucky on that bunker shot at 17," Els acknowledged.


Kelly didn't need much luck. His 10th birdie of the day moved him
to nine-under with three to play.


An errant drive on his 17th hole - No. 8 - slowed him down.


"I wasn't too worried about it. It was just play as well as I
can," he said.

