

The dollar weakened Thursday as the euro jumped to a fresh two-
year high on the greenback as the European Central Bank appeared
to signal an interest rate hike as early as June.


The single European currency spiked to 1.3503 dollars -- the
euro's highest level since January 3, 2005. It then settled back
at 1.3480 dollars at 2100 GMT, up from 1.3428 dollars in New York
late on Wednesday.


The dollar fetched 119.14 yen, down from 119.34 on Wednesday.


In Frankfurt, the ECB left its benchmark "refi" refinancing rate
unchanged Thursday at 3.75 percent, as expected.


But ECB chief Jean-Claude Trichet subsequently said the bank
would continue to monitor eurozone inflation risks "very closely"
and reiterated that monetary policy was currently "on the
accommodative side."


Crucially, he did not use the word "vigilance," a code word that
generally signals a rate hike in the following meeting, said an
assessment from economists at Bear Stearns.


"A rate hike won't come in May, as Trichet refused to describe
the ECB as 'vigilant' with respect to price risks, but a June
hike is still looking a good -- if not sure -- bet," said the
Bear Stearns statement.


Rajesh Shah at PNC Bank said the market now expects "one,
possibly two ECB rate increases this year," making the euro more
attractive.


The dollar was unable to gain traction after "wholly
unimpressive" US economic data, said John Kicklighter at Forex
Capital Markets.


First time claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly jumped
by 19,000 filings to 342,000, suggesting the strong labor market
is losing steam. A separate report showed US import prices up 1.7
percent but most of this was in the energy sector, Kicklighter
noted.


"Traders across the majors transferred their funds into
currencies with more promising interest rate outlooks," he noted.


The yen meanwhile was struggling, and could become a topic of
discussion at this weekend's meeting of the Group of Seven (G7)
countries in Washington.


Shah said the yen lost momentum after Trichet said that the
Japanese currency should reflect "economic fundamentals."


"Traders took this as a sign that the recent yen sell off may be
a topic of conversation at the next G7 meeting," he added.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2167 Swiss francs
after 1.2207 Wednesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9785 dollars from 1.9752.

