

Exiled Russian billionaire Boris Berezovsky said in an interview
published Friday that he was planning the violent overthrow of
Russian President Vladimir Putin from his home in Britain.


"We need to use force to change this regime ... It isn't possible
to change this regime through democratic means," Berezovsky told
The Guardian.


"There can be no change without force, pressure."


Asked by the newspaper if he was fomenting a revolution, he said:
"You are absolutely correct."


Berezovksy, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003 after
fleeing his homeland in 2000. London has repeatedly rejected
requests from Moscow to have him extradited.


His comments were denounced by the Kremlin, whose relations with
London have deteriorated in recent months, following the
poisoning of former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko in November.


Litvinenko and his associates pointed the finger at Moscow, a
charge Russia repeatedly denied.


Berezovsky was questioned late last month as part of Russia's
ongoing probe into Litvinenko's murder, with London police asking
questions on behalf of Russian investigators -- Scotland Yard is
also carrying out its own inquiry.


"There is no chance of regime change through democratic elections
... If one part of the political elite disagrees with another
part of the political elite -- that is the only way in Russia to
change the regime," Berezovsky continued.


"I try to move that."


He declined, however, to give details to back up his statements,
saying they were too sensitive, and also declined to elaborate on
contacts he claimed to have with members of the Russian political
elite, saying they would be murdered if he identified them.


Berezovsky told the paper that he was providing his "political
experience and ideology" and his "understanding of how it could
be done."


"There are also practical steps which I am doing now, and mostly
it is financial."


The Kremlin's chief spokesman Dmitry Peskov responded by telling
The Guardian that "in accordance with our legislation (his
remarks are) being treated as a crime."


"It will cause some questions from the British authorities to Mr
Berezovsky. We want to believe that official London will never
grant asylum to someone who wants to use force to change the
regime in Russia.


"I now believe our prosecutor general's office has got lots of
questions for Mr Berezovsky ... His words are very interesting.
This is a very sensitive issue," Peskov was quoted as saying by
the daily.


The British foreign ministry said it had nothing to add to
comments made by former foreign secretary Jack Straw last year
that "advocating the violent overthrow of a sovereign state is
unacceptable."

