

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming said any World Cup skipper
who didn't think about run-rates was "dumb".


Fleming was forced to defend his tactics after a demoralising
six-wicket Super Eights defeat by title rivals Sri Lanka here on
Thursday.


He delayed taking powerplays fearing that, if the field were up,
the 1996 champions would sprint to a win that would adversely
affect New Zealand's net run-rate - the first tie breaker for
semi-final qualification if teams are level on points.


Sri Lanka's win saw them draw level on eight points with reigning
champions Australia as well as New Zealand.


Australia, who've played four games to their nearest rivals'
five, top the table with a net run-rate of +1.51, Sri Lanka
second with +1.35 and New Zealand narrowly behind on +1.27.


Fleming, whose side need at least one more win from their two
remaining second phase games against fourth-placed South Africa
on Saturday and Australia a week Friday, to be sure of a semi-
final place, said: "The first 20 overs (of Sri Lanka's innings)
we fumbled our way through when we needed a great start.


"From then on it was a fine balance between trying to put
pressure on them and look after our run-rate."


Sri Lanka held New Zealand to 219 for seven, Chaminda Vaas
removing the top order with three for 33 in an innings where
Scott Styris's 111 not out accounted for more than half his
side's runs.


In reply, Sri Lanka got off to a flyer and saw Sanath Jayasuriya
(64) and Kumar Sangakkara (69 not out) put on exactly 100 for the
second wicket.


"We were so far out of the game when they were one down," Fleming
explained. "If we'd taken one more wicket we could have really
squeezed.


"It's a fine line. You could lose 30 or 40 runs just like that in
a tight game and that's going to affect the run-rate massively
down the track.


"I wasn't willing to take the 10 overs of powerplay and lose the
game in the 38th over when you could stretch it out for another
eight overs," said Fleming after Sri Lanka won with 29 balls to
spare.


Asked if he worried about net run-rate, Fleming replied: "You're
dumb if you don't. As a captain you've got to look at all
scenarios but by no means was there a question of giving the game
up."


Defeat for New Zealand, against a Sri Lanka side missing injured
fast bowler Lasith Malinga, saw them fail to equal their 2004
record of 10 straight one-day internationals wins.


"It was a poor performance," said Fleming who was lbw to Vaas for
nought for the fourth successive time.


"The whole way through, particularly in our batting, they stunted
any momentum we had. Scotty had a very good day, we just didn't
support him.


"A contributing factor is that we haven't been put under the pump
thus far.


"They fielded very well and they've got the most unorthodox
attack, the toughest bowling attack in the world at the moment."


Looking ahead, Fleming, 34, said he didn't expect such a
complicated challenge from South Africa.


"They are more orthodox with a pace attack, predominately. But
they are incredibly competent in what they do."

