

Bangladesh's main opposition party welcomed Friday a decision by
the military- backed interim government to hold new elections by
the end of 2008 but also called for an end to a ban on political
activities.


"This is the first time the government announced a specific
timeframe for elections. Of course we welcome this timeframe,"
said Abdul Jalil, general secretary of the Awami League.


"But now the government should lift the ban on political
activities, so that we can discuss with the election commission
on the reforms and other poll-related issues," he said.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since January, when
President Iajuddin Ahmed decided to cancel elections that month
amid worsening political violence and complaints the outgoing
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) was trying to rig the vote.


A new interim government was also installed and -- with backing
from the powerful armed forces -- has been engaged in a major
anti-corruption campaign targetting senior officials from both
the Awami League and the BNP.


Political activity has been banned and freedom of speech curbed,
and on Thursday the caretaker government chief Fakhruddin Ahmed
said he expected new democratic elections would be held by the
end of 2008.


The announcement came after authorities also moved to sideline
the country's two chief political dynasties, spearheaded by women
whose fierce rivalry has been called the "battle of the begums."


Awami League leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed was charged on Wednesday
in the murder of four people who were beaten to death during
political violence in Dhaka last October.


Hasina, who has delayed her return to Bangladesh from the United
States where she was visiting relatives, has said the murder
charges against her are false.


The government has also severely curtailed the freedom of former
prime minister and BNP leader Khaleda Zia, putting her under
virtual house arrest. Zia's influential son has also been
arrested on extortion charges.


Emergency rule, however, has been popular among Bangladeshis, who
appear to be in no hurry to return to destructive political
infighting.


Worn down after 16 years of often brutal rivalry between Zia and
Hasina, many people have said they are happy to give the interim
government time to clean up politics before new polls are held.

