

Real Madrid have a chance to go top of the Spanish first
division, and thus increase the pressure on title rivals
Barcelona and Sevilla, when they face Racing Santander away on
Saturday.


League leaders Barcelona and second-placed Sevilla dropped points
last weekend to allow Real back into the title race, and now only
two points separate the top three teams as the season reaches a
stirring climax.


Victory for Fabio Capello's nine-times European champions in
Santander would hand them the lead of the Spanish top flight, at
least ahead of Real Mallorca's visit to Barcelona and Valencia's
hosting of Sevilla on Sunday.


Real's Brazilian winger Robinho has scored in their last three
games, all victories, to bring them back into contention - and he
has called for continuity.


"We are doing well at the moment but we've got to keep it up.
Racing are a good side but I think we can get three points
against them and keep clawing back the points on our rivals,"
said Robinho earlier this week.


"The recent victories have given us a huge morale boost. If we
keep on playing like this, we could be champions. Each game we
seem to be improving at the moment," added the Brazilian
international.


Capello's big worry is at left back where Miguel Torres has a
left calf strain.


Potential replacements Roberto Carlos and Raul Bravo are also
injured, which could leave Capello no alternative but to rely on
Brazilian teenager Marcelo, a winter transfer window signing from
Fluminense.


"Capello's got confidence in me, I've learnt a lot from him and I
improve every day so I've got confidence in him," said the 18
-year-old wing back ahead of what could be his first start for
the Spanish giants.


Marcelo may be looking forward to the trip to Santander but
doubts remain over whether club captain Raul and former England
star David Beckham will accompany him.


Raul, like Robinho a goal scorer in Real's 2-0 over Osasuna last
Sunday, suffered a bad knock on his left leg in training on
Wednesday.


Beckham is still struggling to recover from the knee injury he
suffered five weeks ago but at least started to kick a ball in
training on Thursday.


Racing will not be the same pushovers who went down 3-1 in the
Santiago Bernabeu back in November. Since the start of the year
their form has improved dramatically.


They currently lie eighth and have become contenders for a place
in Europe next season after going unbeaten in their last seven
games, including a 2-0 win at Valencia and holding Sevilla to a
0-0 draw last Sunday.


"We are as motivated against Real as any team but they are almost
more dangerous away from home than in the Bernabeu," said Racing
striker Pedro Munitis, who was part of Real's 2002 Champions
League winning squad.


Real have won nine of their 15 away games this season for the
best record on the road of any Spanish first division side.


Reigning champions Barcelona have had a week to dwell on their
1-0 loss last Saturday at Real Zaragoza.


"That's part of football. We didn't play well in our last game
but it wasn't because of lack of hard work," said Barcelona
defender Lilian Thuram.


Once again the talking point has been whether Ronaldinho will be
fit to face the ever-erratic Mallorca.


The Brazilian two-time World Player of the Year missed training
on Tuesday because of a high temperature and was on his own on
Wednesday and Thursday in the Barca gymnasium.


Sevilla will face fifth-placed Valencia, who will be looking to
bounce back after their dramatic loss to Chelsea in the Champions
League on Tuesday.


Sevilla booked their UEFA Cup semi-final place with a 4-3
aggregate win over Tottenham Hotspur on Thursday.


With only nine games remaining, the league is reaching crucial
stages.


But Valencia striker Fernando Morientes warned Thursday: "To talk
about us challenging for the league yet is a bit like selling a
bearskin before you've hunted it."


Saturday (Kick off in GMT)


Racing Santander v Real Madrid (1800)


Real Betis v Real Sociedad (2000)


Sunday


Athletic Bilbao v Espanyol (1500)


Atletico Madrid v Levante (1500)


Celta Vigo v Deportivo La Coruna (1500)


Getafe v Villarreal (1500)


Gimnastic Tarragona v Real Zaragoza (1500)


Osasuna v Recreativo Huelva (1500)


Barcelona v Real Mallorca (1700)


Valencia v Sevilla (1900)

