

US President George W. Bush vowed Wednesday to veto legislation
to lift his restrictions on human embryonic stem-cell research
after the Senate passed a bill to remove the limits.


"This bill crosses a moral line that I and many others find
troubling," Bush said in a statement. "If it advances all the way
through Congress to my desk, I will veto it."


The Senate voted 63-34 in favor of a bill lifting a restriction
on using federal funds for stem-cell research on human embryos,
but the tally was short of the two-thirds majority needed to
override a veto.


The House of Representatives passed a similar version of the bill
in January, but the 253-174 vote was also short of a two-thirds
majority.


Bush vetoed similar legislation passed by Congress when it was
led by Republicans last year. Democrats won control of Congress
in November elections.


Researchers working under the federal restrictions may currently
only use cell lines that were made available prior to a ban
imposed in 2001 in the first year of Bush's presidency.


Bush said his policy does not ban, but encourages stem-cell
research under "careful safeguards."


"My policy also ensures that federal funds are not used to create
incentives to destroy, or harm, or create living human embryos
for purposes of research," he said.


The president said scientific advances had been made in the past
few years using adult or other forms of stem cells.


Bush said he supported a compromise text that the Senate also
passed Wednesday, saying it "builds on this ethically appropriate
research by encouraging further development of these alternative
techniques for producing stem cells without embryo creation or
destruction."


"I strongly support this bill, and I encourage the Congress to
pass it and send it to me for my signature, so stem-cell science
can progress, without ethical and cultural conflict," he said.


The compromise text would encourage stem-cell research on
"embryos that have naturally lost the ability to develop into
fetuses, such as those that have died 'naturally' during
fertility treatments."

