

Tensions are running high in Sri Lanka's east as government
troops fight what they insist is the "climax" of a battle to
clear vast jungle areas of Tamil Tiger rebels.


Still trying to recover from the 2004 Asian tsunami, the eastern
coastal town of Batticaloa and surrounding areas have become a
stalking ground for shadowy death squads and private armies
engaged in daily murders, kidnappings and extortion, local
officials and aid workers say.


Tens of thousands of people have been displaced, and most expect
the situation to get worse before it gets better.


"It's miserable for the civilian population. There is a climate
of absolute impunity. Everyone seems to have thrown aside the
rule book," said a western aid worker based in the Tamil-majority
area.


"There's a dirty war being fought here, and there seems to be no
end in sight," said the relief worker, who asked not to be named
citing the fear of being targetted.


Since a 2002 Norwegian-brokered ceasefire agreement fell apart a
year ago, government forces have focussed their efforts on
wresting full control of the island's east and eliminating
pockets of intensive Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
activity.


The Sri Lankan military says success would mean confining the
Tigers, who are battling to set up an independent state across
swathes of the north and east, to a single area in the north of
the island.


While some officials assert that they merely want to bring the
LTTE back to the negotiating table, others talk openly of
"eliminating" them once and for all.


In January, government forces "liberated" the small coastal town
of Vakarai, just to the north of Batticaloa and the last of the
Tigers' formalised bastions in the east.


Vakarai is now a ghost town, with many of its buildings flattened
by government shelling and strewn with landmines left behind by
the rebels.


Daya Ratnayake, a gung-ho army brigadier in charge of much of the
eastern front, prefers to call it a "defensive humanitarian
operation."


"This is the climax. The LTTE are desperate. It's a matter of
time," he told AFP in Welikanda, a leafy garrison town inland
from Batticaloa.


"We will not take more than two months to get the east clear of
these terrorists. Now the only major concentration of Tigers in
the east is just outside Batticaloa, and we know how to get rid
of them now," he told AFP.


The guerrillas who used to run Vakarai as a separate fiefdom,
however, appear to have simply melted away into the jungles and
rocky outcrops that line the otherwise idyllic east coast.


Formal battle lines have been replaced by a massive security
blanket designed to stifle the activities of rebels who could be
anywhere and everywhere.


The entire mobile telephone network has even been shut down to
stop the rebels using phones for communications or detonating one
of their favoured weapons -- huge roadside bombs packed with ball
bearings.


Checkpoints and machine gun bunkers dot the landscape, although
several roads are controlled by the Tigers by night. Even in
daylight, senior officials prefer to move around in disguise and
in unmarked vehicles.


"The trouble is you don't know who is who. You push the Tigers
from one place and they move somewhere else. You push them from
somewhere else and they move back here. They could be anywhere,"
said a police official, who also preferred not to be named.


A further complication is the presence of the Karuna faction, a
group of breakaway Tamil Tigers now allied with central
government and -- despite official denials -- widely viewed as
guns for government hire.


Human rights groups and even local police -- speaking privately
at least -- say both the LTTE and Karuna faction are actively
preying on local business for cash and on displaced persons camps
for recruits including child soldiers.


Officials also live in constant fear of so-called 'pistol
squads', or Tamil Tigers in civvies who can pull out a 9mm pistol
and assassinate whenever the ideal opportunity arises -- on a
street corner, in a temple, in a restaurant.


The senior police officer in the newly-captured town of Vakarai,
U.S.I. Perera, said he cannot even take a morning dip at the
beach just a stone's throw away from his heavily fortified police
station.


"I don't want to get shot by a pistol squad coming out of the
sea," he said while providing a tour of the town along with
several well-armed guards.


Brigadier Ratnayake, however, is optimistic the government
finally has the upper hand in Asia's longest running civil war,
citing their "hearts and minds" campaign including compensation
for people whose houses have been blown up.


"It is all about hearts and minds. We are adopting better
methods, and getting the local population on our side.


"When you are fighting guerrillas, terrorists, you can never be
sure," he said. "But we have them on the defensive. We are not
working to a timescale, but we don't want it to drag on."

