

Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej has pardoned a Swiss man who
was sentenced to 10 years in prison last month for vandalising
portraits of the monarch, prosecutors said Thursday.


"I have learned that he received a royal pardon a few days ago.
Now he has been released but will be deported from Thailand,"
said Panu Kwanyuen, the provincial attorney general in the
northern city of Chiang Mai.


Oliver Jufer, 57, had been sentenced to 10 years in prison on
March 29 after pleading guilty to five counts of lese majeste --
the crime of offending the dignity of a sovereign.


He was convicted of defacing several portraits of the king with
spray paint during a drunken spree in Chiang Mai in December.


Jufer was released from prison and into the custody of
immigration officials on Tuesday, prison authorities said.


Immigration officials in Chiang Mai said they were in the process
of deporting him. Swiss embassy officials declined to comment.


Jufer is from Zurich but has lived mainly in Thailand for the
last 10 years and has married a Thai woman, according to Thai
authorities.


Security cameras videotaped him defacing the king's portraits on
December 5, which is the monarch's birthday and a time of
national celebration.


Thailand has been swept up in royal fever since the king's 60th
anniversary on the throne in June last year.


The palace also became more prominent in Thai political life with
a military coup in September, which was conducted with the king's
apparent blessing.


The generals who staged the coup have repeatedly said that one of
the reasons for ousting elected prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra
was because he had been "impolite" to the monarch.


But prosecutors last week dropped the lese majeste charges
against Thaksin, although they chided him over the remarks.


The controversy over Jufer's case and Thailand's rigid
enforcement of its lese majeste law also erupted on the Internet,
after a user on the video-sharing site YouTube posted a clip
mocking the king and taking aim at the law.


Thailand last week blocked the site because of the video, drawing
condemnation from media rights watchdogs who accused the
military-installed government of increasingly censoring political
speech online.


The original clip has since been removed, but Thailand's decision
to censor the website spurred YouTube users worldwide to create
their own videos mocking the king, with dozens currently posted
on the site.

