

The US administration is looking for a "coordinator" to bridge
the gap between the government and military running of the wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Defense Department confirmed
Wednesday.


The idea comes in response to calls to have "somebody in the
White House who could act as a coordinator for the civilian side
of the government along with the Defense Department," defense
spokesman Robert Gates told reporters.


The Washington Post earlier reported that the administration had
so far been unable to find anyone willing to fill the high-
powered "czar" job, with at least three retired four-star
generals turning down the position.


"This person is not running the war," Gates said. "This czar term
is, I think, kind of silly. The person is better described as a
coordinator and a facilitator."


"The idea is to have someone in the White House who would work as
part of the National Security Council so they're not detached
from it, but also have a direct reporting line to the president,"
he said.


Able to respond to military requests, the coordinator would be
"somebody empowered by the president to call a cabinet secretary
and say, 'The president would like to know why you haven't
delivered what's been asked for yet.'"


President George W. Bush is creating the job to coordinate
civilian and military aspects of the two conflicts, the Post
said, and whoever fills it will have the power to order other
agencies to act.


But, despite the job carrying the title of assistant to the
president, one of the highest ranks in the White House, at least
one candidate turned it down saying it would be difficult to work
alongside hawkish Vice President Dick Cheney, the newspaper
reported.


The Post said the White House had also been turned down by
retired army general Jack Keane and retired Air Force general
Joseph Ralston.


The White House faces an ongoing struggle to find supporters for
its war policy, more than five years after leading the invasion
of Afghanistan and four years on from the invasion of Iraq.


Bush is currently in a tough battle over war funding and pullout
schedules with Congress, controlled now by the opposition
Democrats.

