

East Timor presidential runoff candidate Jose Ramos-Horta said
Thursday the United Nations should explain why 30 percent of
voters did not cast a ballot in the first round and demanded a
recount.


"It seems like at least 30 percent of voters did not vote," he
told reporters. "Why? I don't know."


"There has to be an investigation," the tiny state's current
prime minister said. "I ask the UN for an explanation."


The presidential contest is scheduled to be decided in a May 8
runoff between Ramos-Horta and the ruling Fretilin party's
Francisco Guterres after a tight first round, held on Monday,
ended in stalemate.


The poll was the first presidential election since East Timor's
independence in 2002 and was described by international observers
as generally open, orderly and peaceful.


But Ramos-Horta said it was an open question why more than
150,000 people did not vote from about 520,000 registered to cast
a ballot.


"Were they intimidated or simply did not show up?" he asked,
adding many people had doubts about the election in the former
Portuguese colony.


"I think there should be another count," said Ramos-Horta, who
shared a Nobel Peace Prize for championing East Timor's cause
when it was occupied by Indonesia from 1974 to 1999.


Five losing candidates from the eight who stood to replace
President Xanana Gusmao have also demanded a recount, alleging
the election was undermined by intimidation, problems with the
count and other issues.


"Today I heard that several boxes of ballot papers were found
last night, from Dili, that had not been counted," Ramos-Horta
said, referring to East Timor's capital.


The poll was organised by local officials and observers reported
a high turnout from Timorese desperate to end the poverty and
bloodshed that has scarred their young nation.


"I will have to evaluate myself whether the UN here has done what
they should have done to assist the East Timorese in having fair
elections, or were they too marginal -- too passive and
watching?" Ramos-Horta said.


Guterres, the former guerrilla popularly known as Lu Olo, took
28.79 percent of the vote and Ramos-Horta 22.6 percent, according
to provisional figures from the national election commission.


Foreign peacekeepers have been on the streets of East Timor,
formally known as Timor-Leste, for nearly a year after gang
violence left 37 people dead and sent 150,000 fleeing their homes
in April and May 2006.


Gusmao won a pre-independence poll following East Timor's bloody
split from Indonesia in 1999 and has set his sights on the more
powerful job of prime minister.

