

The chief US envoy on North Korea on Thursday pressed Pyongyang
to quickly begin to shut down its nuclear reactor -- a key
condition of a multilateral deal on ending its atomic weapons
programme.


"The ball's in their court," Assistant Secretary of State
Christopher Hill told CNN, two days before a deadline for the
communist state to shut down its Yongbyon reactor and invite in
UN inspectors as part of the February deal.


"If they don't fulfil their obligations we'll know very soon and
we'll have to deal with that accordingly."


Hill was speaking a day after New Mexico governor Bill
Richardson, who visited Pyongyang this week, said the North would
move swiftly once it received millions of dollars which had been
frozen overseas under US-inspired sanctions.


On his return from Pyongyang, Richardson said officials told him
they would invite back International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
inspectors within a day after receiving the 25 million dollars
frozen in a Macau bank since 2005.


The Macanese authorities, with US approval, have now unfrozen the
funds. Richardson said Wednesday he expected the Macau bank to
notify North Korea by Thursday morning that the money was
available for collection.


North Korea tested its first nuclear weapon last October. It had
refused to move on the February 13 disarmament agreement until it
receives the funds, which had been frozen on suspicion of money-
laundering and counterfeiting.


South Korea's Chosun Ilbo newspaper said 20 North Korean
officials had been sent to Macau from the neighbouring Chinese
city of Zhuhai to withdraw the cash.


"The 52 North Korean bank accounts have recently been integrated
for easy withdrawal, and it will take one or two days for North
Korea to have the funds back since the sum is big," it quoted an
unnamed Macau bank official as saying.


Richardson said Pyongyang officials had mentioned a possible
30-day extension of the deadline, but he said the issue was
dropped after his team told them it was unacceptable.


Hill said talk of extensions was unhelpful but tacitly
acknowledged that the original goal of completing the Yongbyon
shutdown by April 14 would not be met.


"The problem we have now is the North Koreans need to make a
decision to invite the IAEA in there and start shutting down this
reactor and reprocessing facility," he told CNN.


"We've got to get going on that and once we get going we can see
how long it's going to take," he said, suggesting it could be
done in a matter of weeks.


Hill, who extended his stay in South Korea by one day and will
leave for China on Friday, stressed the importance of shutting
down the reprocessing facility at Yongbyon as well as the
reactor.


"That's very important. That's where you take the spent fuel from
the reactor and turn it into bomb-making material," he told CNN.


Hill said best estimates were that Yongbyon has produced 50-60
kilogrammes (110-132 pounds) of plutonium, enough for six to 12
bombs.


The aim of the shutdown was "to prevent that 50-60 kilo problem
from becoming a 100-kilo problem," he said, adding that the North
must also divulge the status of a separate bomb-making programme
based on highly enriched uranium.


Hill met later Thursday with his South Korean counterpart Chun
Yung-Woo for the second time since his arrival from Tokyo on
Tuesday.


Under the deal the North should disable all nuclear programmes in
exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid and
diplomatic benefits.


As a first step, it was supposed to have completed the shutdown
and sealing of Yongbyon and to have invited IAEA inspectors back
into the country by April 14.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Wednesday he
expected the North to fulfill its commitments, noting: "We'll see
where we are on Saturday."

