

Federal Reserve policymakers expressed worry about "uncomfortably
high" inflation and softer economic conditions but remained
optimistic about improvements, minutes from a meeting last month
showed Wednesday.


The minutes from the March 20-21 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting, at which members agreed to keep interest rates steady at
5.25 percent, cited concerns on both the growth and inflation
front but showed members expected the problems to ease.


"Meeting participants agreed that, while recent economic data had
been mixed, the economy was likely to expand at a moderate pace
in the coming quarter," the minutes showed.


"However, additional evidence of sluggish business investment and
recent developments in the subprime mortgage market suggested
that the downside risks relative to the expectation of moderate
growth had increased in the weeks since the January FOMC
meeting."


The March policy statement stated that inflation remained the
predominant concern for the central bank and the minutes
highlighted those worries.


"The prevailing level of inflation remained uncomfortably high,
and the latest information cast some doubt on whether core
inflation was on the expected downward path," the minutes stated.


"Most participants continued to expect that core inflation would
slow gradually, but the recent readings on inflation and
productivity growth, along with higher energy prices, had
increased the odds that inflation would fail to moderate as
expected; that risk remained the Committee's predominant
concern."


The minutes showed Fed members reported "signs of stabilization"
in the slumping housing market, which has been the main drag on
US economic growth over the past year.


Despite a rise in delinquencies on "subprime" adjustable-rate
mortgage loans amid borrowers with poor credit histories, the Fed
reported "no sign of spillovers from the subprime market to the
overall mortgage market."


The Fed minutes said recent data showed business fixed investment
spending had been "surprisingly weak" despite strong corporate
balance sheets, high profitability and favorable financial
conditions.


Consumer spending was holding up reasonably well while
manufacturing had softened, the minutes showed.


Financial markets interpreted the March statement as signaling
that the Fed was moving away from a "bias" of hiking rates and
laying the groundwork for a rate cut. The statement dropped a
reference to "firming" or hiking rates, and instead spoke of
"adjustments" in rates.


But Fed chairman Ben Bernanke and others have since dismissed
this theory and the minutes showed a rate hike remained a
possibility.


"The Committee agreed that further policy firming might prove
necessary to foster lower inflation, but in light of the
increased uncertainty about the outlook for both growth and
inflation, the Committee also agreed that the statement should no
longer cite only the possibility of further firming," the minutes
said.


"Instead, the statement should indicate that future policy
adjustments will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both
inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming
information."


The minutes were released the same day the International Monetary
Fund cut its forecast for US economic growth in 2007 to 2.2
percent. That is lower than the Fed outlook for an expansion of
2.5 to 3.0 percent.


Brian Bethune, economist at Global Insight, said the Fed "is
feeling an increased intensity and unpredictability of crosswinds
in the outlook."


As as result, Fed officials are trying to walk a "tightrope .. to
keep the interest rate adjustment balance bar even, holding it a
little closer to the middle, rather than keeping it even but
gripping it on the side of higher rates."

