

In a sign that the US military is straining to meet its
commitments, Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced Wednesday
that army soldiers will see their tours of duty in Iraq and
Afghanistan extended by three months.


The extension makes thousands more soldiers available to maintain
the "surge" of military forces in Iraq that President George W.
Bush announced in January.


Opposition Democrats in the US Congress, responding to growing US
public opposition to the war, attacked the decision as proof of
the administration's failed strategy in Iraq.


"Effective immediately, active army units now in the Central
Command area (Iraq and Afghanistan) and those headed there will
deploy for not more than 15 months," Gates said.


When the soldiers return to their home stations they will be able
to rest for at least 12 months, Gates said.


The Bush strategy in Iraq calls for deploying nearly 30,000 more
US troops in an attempt to secure Baghdad and parts of the
western Al-Anbar province.


There are currently 145,000 US troops in Iraq, a number that
should rise to 160,000 by June once the reinforcements are in
place.


Iraqi and US troops have waged a massive military clampdown in
Baghdad for two months, and US officials have been upbeat about
signs of progress.


Gates acknowledged that the US forces "are stretched" with the
foreign deployments. "There's no question about that," he said.


The new measure allows the army to maintain the surge in Iraq for
"probably at least" until April 2008, Gates said. He added:
"Whether it will be kept in place depends entirely on the
conditions on the ground."


It does not however affect other branches of the military, said
Marine General Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.


"The Marines will stay with what they have, which is seven over,
six back, seven over, six back," said Pace, speaking at the same
briefing with Gates.


Neither do the new rules affect the navy -- which has "sandbox
sailors" on support duty in Iraq -- or the air force, Pace said.


Legislators in Congress were angered by Gates' announcement.


"Today's announcement just underscores the fact that the burden
of the war in Iraq has fallen upon our troops and their
families," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.


"Once again the failures of this administration are being
underwritten by our troops," said Senate Armed Forces Committee
Chairman Carl Levin.


Republican Charles Hagel, who has joined Democrats in their call
for a withdrawal, said the United States is "on a very dangerous
course."


The House of Representatives and Senate have passed bills making
crucial funding for the Iraq war conditional on pulling out the
troops by August 31, 2008, and March 31, 2008, respectively.


The two chambers must reconcile the bills before agreeing on a
single text to send to the president to sign -- which Bush has
already vowed to veto.


Since the March 2003 invasion 3,282 US military personnel have
been killed in Iraq, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon
figures.


In January Bush called for expanding the army and the marines,
the main US ground fighting forces, by 92,000 -- 65,000 more
soldiers for the army and 27,000 additional marines -- by the
year 2012.


The announcement Wednesday is an attempt to "provide some long-
term predictability for the soldiers and their families" about
lengths of deployment and time at home, Gates said.


The National Guard and the Army reserves "will be mobilized for a
maximum of a year," Gates said. "And our hope is that their time
at home ... is five years."


On Monday the Pentagon announced that it ordered 13,000 National
Guard soldiers to be prepared for possible deployment to Iraq in
December.


The new policy "is a difficult but necessary interim step" that
will be kept until the army can shift to 12-month foreign
deployments and 12 months at home, Gates said.


The ultimate goal is to deploy army units abroad for 12 months at
a time, then bring them home for two years, he said.

