

Peter Crouch put Liverpool on course for a Champions League
grudge match against Chelsea as his second half strike sealed a
1-0 quarter-final second leg win over 10-man PSV Eindhoven on
Wednesday.


Crouch's tap-in came moments after PSV's Dirk Marcellis was sent
off and completed a 4-0 aggregate victory that capped a memorable
week for English teams.


Liverpool followed Manchester United and Chelsea's victories on
Tuesday to become the third Premiership club to reach the last
four.


It is only the third time a single country has had three clubs at
this stage of the competition. But Rafa Benitez's side will be
focused on emulating their 2005 Champions League semi-final
victory over Chelsea, which was the prelude to a fifth triumph in
Europe's elite club competition.


Liverpool and Chelsea are becoming familiar opponents on
football's grand occasions and this will be the increasingly
bitter rivals' third semi-final meeting in three seasons.


The chance to secure a trip to Athens for the final in May would
be enough to ensure a ferocious encounter. But extra spice is
added by Luis Garcia's controversial Champions League winner
against Chelsea two years ago - a goal that still rankles with
Blues manager Jose Mourinho.


With Liverpool in complete control of the tie after the first
leg, Benitez felt confident enough to leave Steven Gerrard and
Jamie Carragher on the bench as he made five changes to the side
that won in Eindhoven.


PSV had been woeful in the first leg and their coach Ronald
Koeman had conceded there was little hope of PSV becoming the
first team ever to overturn a three- goal Champions League
deficit away from home.


An early goal was vital if the visitors were to have any chance
and they were quickly on the offensive, with Jefferson Farfan's
header bringing a good stop from Jose Reina.


Liverpool suffered a blow when Welsh striker Craig Bellamy was
stretchered off after he suffering a knee ligament strain while
trying to charge down a corner in the 16th minute.


Benitez's team had done the hard work in the Netherlands and,
after the fireworks of Manchester United and Chelsea's impressive
last eight victories on Tuesday, this was inevitably a rather
more mundane affair.


PSV had nowhere near enough firepower to trouble Liverpool, who
were content to maintain a grip on possession without over-
committing to rash attacks. PSV keeper Gomes was finally tested
in the 27th minute when Crouch met Jermaine Pennant's cross with
a volley that the Brazilian pushed over the bar.


That miss was as close as the Anfield crowd got to real
excitement in the first half, although Boudewijn Zenden was
narrowly off-target with a curling free-kick from 25 yards just
before the break.


If PSV had the slightest belief they could get back into the tie,
it was extinguished by Italian referee Roberto Rosetti after 64
minutes.


Marcellis' lunge at Zenden was rash but hardly a serious danger
to the Dutch winger, but it still brought the 18-year-old
debutant right-back an immediate red card from Rosetti.


Liverpool went for the kill straight away and got their reward in
the 68th minute.


Crouch looked to have wasted the chance when he failed to connect
cleanly with John Arne Riise's left-wing cross. But Robbie Fowler
turned the ball back into the six yard box for Crouch to shoot
past Gomes for his fifth goal in four games.


Fowler is likely to leave Liverpool at the end of the season and
it was fitting that the striker, a hero to the Anfield faithful,
played a part in the winner on what will be one of his last
European nights for the club.


But this victory ensured he still has a chance to write one more
chapter in the Liverpool history books against Chelsea later this
month.

