

An Iraqi government spokesman Wednesday called on Iraq's Arab
neighbors to help curb Iran's "dangerous" influence in his
country and for the United States to reach an "understanding"
with Tehran.


"We are sharing responsibility with the Arabs. We have to work
together in order to limit the Iranian influence in Iraq," the
representative Ali al-Dabbagh told reporters during a visit here.


"It is not only (an) Iraqi responsibility, it is a regional
responsibility, he said.


"We are urging the United States and Iran to have certain
arrangements and understanding. We understand that the influence
of Iran is dangerous for us now."


Washington accuses Iran, a non-Arab and predominantly Shiite
Muslim nation, of supporting insurgents fighting US forces in
Iraq.


Four years on from the US-led invasion which toppled the late
dictator Saddam Hussein, sectarian violence is ravaging Iraq,
killing hundreds of people each week.


Several of Iraq's neighbors including Iran, as well as other
world powers, are due to meet in Egypt on May 3-4 for a major
conference on the war-torn country.


Al-Dabbagh said he hoped the conference would be a step towards
stabilizing the country.


"Iraqi-Arab relations will be improved and upgraded when the Arab
states will show a real ... effort to support the majority of
Iraqis and having a federal, democratic, stable state," he said.


The United States has begun sending a "surge" of nearly 30,000
extra troops to Iraq to help secure the capital Baghdad and parts
of Al-Anbar province.


Al-Dabbagh expressed a wish for US forces to be able to withdraw
soon from Iraq, but acknowledged that "the premature withdrawal
of the American troops will create a vacuum" for other powers in
the country.


"Iran is not only the danger, Al-Qaeda as well is the danger," he
said. The Al- Qaeda network is believed to be behind deadly
suicide bombings in Iraq.


Syria, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Kuwait and Bahrain will attend the
May conference, plus Turkey, the European Union, the Arab League,
the United Nations and the G8 group of rich nations.


"It's the right time now to look to the relations with Iraq
beyond the ideological, sectarian or ethnic vision which prevents
the Kurds and the Shiites from integrating in the region," Al-
Dabbagh said.

