

The US Senate Wednesday voted in favor of funding stem-cell
research on human embryos, but President George W. Bush promptly
vowed to veto the bill which has incensed Christian
conservatives.


The Senate approved legislation to lift Bush's restriction on
using federal funds for stem-cell research on human embryos, but
the president released a statement confirming his intention to
veto the bill.


"This bill crosses a moral line that I and many others find
troubling," Bush said. "If it advances all the way through
Congress to my desk, I will veto it."


"I believe this will encourage taxpayer money to be spent on the
destruction or endangerment of living human embryos -- raising
serious moral concerns for millions of Americans."


It will be the second time he has exercized this right to block a
proposal to loosen restrictions on the practice. The Senate voted
63-34 for the draft law -- short of the two-thirds majority that
would be needed to reverse a veto.


Stem cells such as those found in human embryos are immature
cells that grow into various tissues.


Growing tissue from stem cells is a key goal of scientists,
because if a damaged part of the body can be replaced by tissue
genetically matched to the patient, it cannot be rejected.


Bush said his own policy encourages stem-cell research under
"careful safeguards."


It "also ensures that federal funds are not used to create
incentives to destroy, or harm, or create living human embryos
for purposes of research," he said.


Bush last year used his power of veto for the first time in his
presidency to slap down a similar text passed in Congress, when
it was controlled by his Republican party. Democrats won control
of Congress in November elections.


Researchers working under the current federal restrictions may
only use cell lines which were made available prior to a ban
imposed in 2001 in the first year of Bush's presidency.


But scientists have campaigned hard to end the restrictions,
saying only 20 such lines now exist and that the US risks falling
behind in vital research which may hold the key to medical
advances in treating degenerative diseases.


Bush is already at loggerheads with the Democratic opposition
over another sensitive issue -- funding for US troops in Iraq.
The stem-cell debate now puts him at odds with many leaders of
his own party, but more in tune with his conservative evangelical
Christian supporters.


"Support of embryonic stem cell research does not contradict a
pro-life stance," said Mormon conservative Senator Orrin Hatch.
"I believe a pro-life agenda demands that we care for the living
-- not just the unborn."


Christian organizations, however, have loudly condemned what they
say is the exploitation of embryos.


"Millions in the faith community believe that destroying embryos,
through embryonic stem cell research, is the tragic taking of
innocent human life," said the head of the evangelical lobby,
Patrick Mahoney.


"In light of this, it is extremely disturbing that the United
States Senate would seek passage of a bill that would force
Christians to pay for embryonic stem cell research with public
tax dollars," he added.


"This shows utter contempt and disdain by the United States
Senate for people of faith."


Bush, meanwhile, said he supported a compromise text that the
Senate also passed Wednesday, which encourages stem-cell research
on embryos that have died "naturally." He also voiced backing for
research on stem cells not taken from embryos.


"Advances using adult and other forms of stem cells are
exciting," his staement said. "Some have even produced effective
therapies and treatments for disease -- all without the
destruction of human life."

