

The US Senate Wednesday adopted a bill to fund stem-cell research
on human embryos, but President George W. Bush promptly vowed to
veto the legislation on the sensitive issue.


The Senate voted in favor of legislation to lift Bush's
restriction on using federal funds for stem-cell research on
human embryos, but the president released a statement confirming
his intention to veto the bill.


"This bill crosses a moral line that I and many others find
troubling," Bush said. "If it advances all the way through
Congress to my desk, I will veto it."


It will be the second time he has exercised this right to block a
proposal to loosen restrictions on the practice. The Senate voted
63-34 for the draft law -- short of the two-thirds majority that
would be needed to reverse a veto.


The White House had said it was unthinkable that public tax
dollars should be used to destroy human embryos. Bush argues that
he is protecting human life which begins, he says, at the moment
of conception.


Stem cells such as those found in human embryos are immature
cells that grow into various tissues.


Growing replacement tissue from stem cells is a key goal of
scientists, because if a damaged part of the body can be replaced
by tissue genetically matched to the patient, it cannot be
rejected.


Bush said his own policy encourages stem-cell research under
"careful safeguards."


It "also ensures that federal funds are not used to create
incentives to destroy, or harm, or create living human embryos
for purposes of research," he said.


Bush last year used his power of veto for the first time in his
presidency to slap down a similar text passed in Congress, when
it was controlled by his Republican party. Democrats won control
of Congress in November elections.


Researchers working under the federal restrictions may currently
only use cell lines which were made available prior to a ban
imposed in 2001 in the first year of Bush's presidency.


But scientists have campaigned hard to end the restrictions,
saying only 20 such lines now exist and that the US risks falling
behind in vital research which may hold the key to medical
advances in treating degenerative diseases.


"These restrictions divert valuable time and effort in a way that
isn't occurring in Britain and Singapore," Brock Reeve, executive
director of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute, recently wrote in
The Washington Post.


Wednesday's vote presages a new standoff between Bush and the
Democrat- controlled Congress, with the two sides already at
loggerheads over a war funding bill.


A presidential veto already awaits other bills, passed but not
yet reconciled by each house, conditioning emergency funding for
the war in Iraq on setting a schedule for the withdrawal of US
troops.


Though a less passionate issue, the stem-cell debate puts Bush at
odds with many leaders of his own party, but more in tune with
his conservative evangelical Christian political supporters.


"Support of embryonic stem cell research does not contradict a
pro-life stance," said Mormon conservative Senator Orrin Hatch.
"I believe a pro-life agenda demands that we care for the living
-- not just the unborn."


Christian organizations however have loudly condemned what they
say is the exploitation of embryos.


"Millions in the faith community believe that destroying embryos,
through embryonic stem cell research, is the tragic taking of
innocent human life," said the head of the evangelical lobby,
Patrick Mahoney.


"In light of this, it is extremely disturbing that the United
States Senate would seek passage of a bill that would force
Christians to pay for embryonic stem cell research with public
tax dollars.


"This shows utter contempt and disdain by the United States
Senate for people of faith."


Bush said he supported a compromise text that the Senate also
passed Wednesday, which encourages stem-cell research on embryos
that have died "naturally."


"I strongly support this bill, and I encourage the Congress to
pass it and send it to me for my signature, so stem-cell science
can progress, without ethical and cultural conflict," he said.

