

The euro struck a new record high against the yen in Asian trade
on Thursday as traders bet that interest rates would remain much
higher in the eurozone than in Japan for some time, dealers said.


They said that the dollar was mixed following a downgrade by the
International Monetary Fund to its US growth forecast and signs
that US monetary policymakers are worried by inflation.


The dollar edged up to 119.41 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
119.34 late Wednesday in New York.


The euro gained to 1.3454 dollars after 1.3428 and to 160.64 yen
from 160.27, after setting a new all-time high of about 160.81.


"The yen is the weakest currency right now, affected by various
factors," said Marito Ueda, a currency trader at FM Prime.


The IMF on Wednesday urged Japan's central bank to keep its
interest rates low with inflation still "uncomfortably" close to
zero.


Japan's low interest rates have encouraged speculators to borrow
cheaply here to invest in higher-yielding assets elsewhere -- the
yen carry trade.


National Australia Bank strategist John Kyriakopoulos said that
this practice had been encouraged by comments from the IMF chief
economist that the carry trade was not as destabilising for
financial markets as some think.


"This reduced fears that yen weakness will be discussed at the G7
meeting in Washington," he added.


Market players doubt that the Group of Seven finance ministers
gathering this Friday in Washington will speak out about the
yen's weakness, which European officials say is hurting eurozone
exports.


But they may reiterate their warning on "one-way bets" -- a
comment made at February's G7 meeting in Germany that was taken
to refer to yen weakness.


The dollar wobbled after minutes showed Federal Reserve
policymakers expressed concerns about "uncomfortably high"
inflation and softening economic conditions at their March
meeting, when they left the key rate at 5.25 percent.


Dealers said the remarks suggested the central bank was unlikely
to cut US interest rates in the near term, dealers said.


The IMF also said that the United States was experiencing a
"growth pause" but was unlikely to slump into a recession.


"The outlook of the US economy is increasingly for the scenario
of soft- landing," said Ueda at FM Prime.


Dealers said that near-term prospects for the euro would depend
on the remarks of European Central Bank president Jean-Claude
Trichet after a meeting Thursday when interest rates are expected
to be held at 3.75 percent.


The euro bank has raised eurozone borrowing costs seven times
since December 2005, each time by a quarter of a percentage
point. Many economists expect another rate rise in June to 4.0
percent.

