

US Democrats have announced they will meet President George W.
Bush next week to discuss a disputed funding bill for troops in
Iraq, while criticizing him for refusing to broach the topic with
Congress.


"We will be at the White House on Wednesday to talk with the
President," the Democratic Speaker of the House of
Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid, the Senate majority
leader, said in a joint statement.


"We will listen to his position, but in return we will insist
that he listen to concerns of the American people that his
policies in Iraq have failed and we need to change course."


"We have been disappointed with the President's decision to avoid
a serious, substantive discussion with Congress on Iraq," they
added.


Four leading Democrat lawmakers earlier called on Bush to meet
with them at Congress to discuss their bill, which seeks to make
crucial funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan conditional
on a withdrawal of troops next year.


"We respectfully request that you consider coming to Capitol Hill
this Friday to meet with Democratic and Republican members of the
United States Senate in an effort to begin bridging the
differences between your Iraq policy and that supported by the
Congress late last month," the four senators wrote.


It was the latest shot in a dragging showdown between Bush and
the Congress over a bill approving funding for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


On Tuesday Bush invited US lawmakers to meet with him at the
White House next week to discuss the bill which he has threatened
to veto if it contains a timetable for withdrawing US troops from
Iraq.


The House and Senate, which have both passed legislation setting
different deadlines, must now iron out the differences between
their bills and send one to the president for his signature to
become law.


Bush has invited lawmakers to come up with new draft legislation
but Reid swiftly rejected any talks which came with strings
attached. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi agreed.


"What the president invited us to do was come to his office so
that we could accept, without any discussion, the bill that he
wants," she said late Tuesday. "That's not worthy of the concerns
of the American people."

