

New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg met with UN chief Ban Ki-moon
here Wednesday for talks focusing on possible city police
cooperation in UN peacekeeping operations, a UN spokeswoman said.


Marie Okabe, the UN deputy spokeswoman, said the UN secretary
general and Bloomberg discussed possible contribution by the New
York Police Department to UN peacekeeping.


"New York City has one of the most diversified police forces
around," she said. "Getting police to join (UN) peacekeeping
operations is one of the high priorities for the UN."


Okabe told AFP after the meeting that Bloomberg "was open to the
proposal."


"But it was not meant to elicit an immediate response," she said,
stressing that the discussions on the issue were "exploratory."


Ban and Bloomberg also discussed New York City's support for the
massive renovation of the United Nations' crumbling New York
headquarters.


The talks also centered on efforts to make the future UN
headquarters more environmentally friendly and bring it in line
with New York City fire safety codes.


Okabe said Ban had tasked the UN department of management to work
with the New York Fire Department on ways to improve fire safety
at the UN.


Under the plan, estimated to cost 1.87 billion dollars (1.4
billion euros), the UN headquarters complex, a major tourist
attraction, is to be completely renovated beginning this summer
to bring it into conformity with city health and safety codes
while improving security.


The main UN headquarters buildings were built between 1949 and
1951 and have not been significantly overhauled or maintained
since then.


The complex has a leaking roof, is riddled with asbestos and
lacks fire detectors, a sprinkler system and other emergency
safety devices.


Under the plan, 10 of the main compound's 39 floors would be
evacuated at a time to allow the structure to be renovated in
four stages.


Ten office floors would be leased in central Manhattan and
additional space would be leased on Long Island to temporarily
house the UN library.

