

Ireland coach Adrian Birrell will look to his Australian-born
captain Trent Johnston to fight fire with fire when the World Cup
debutants clash with Ricky Ponting's defending champions here on
Friday.


Johnston is one of three Australian-born players in the Ireland
team which has dumbfounded the tournament by reaching the second
round Super Eights after knocking out Pakistan.


"What I look for most in a player is attitude. Obviously talent
is important but I need to know that if we get into a scrap
they're there for you. Trent brought that," said South African
Birrell who steps down as coach after the World Cup.


"He's a fighter on the field. He leads on the field and he leads
off the field. He leads in training. The guys needed to be
pushed. You don't get any glory without hard work. And we needed
the hard work."


Johnston, opening batsman Jeremy Bray and bowler Dave Langford-
Smith are all Austalians who settled in Ireland after marrying
Irish girls.


Birrell, who hands the reins over to former West Indies Test
player Phil Simmons after the World Cup, is adamant that his
coaching career will end on April 18 when Ireland play their last
Super Eights match against Sri Lanka in Grenada.


"I know my time in Ireland has been successful but somehow the
judging of a coach at a top level is all about winning and losing
and I sometimes feel disillusioned with that," Birrell told the
Tribune newspaper.


"There's more to cricket than just winning and losing. I derive
more satisfaction by getting success out of a young player. The
top level also takes me away from my family.


"We're not going to close the door on any big job," he added.


"But my first priority is the family and I'll have to make sure
the family are okay before accepting any other job. Right now any
big job in world cricket involves a huge amount of travel and
that's just not on for me.


"I've probably taken it (the Ireland job) as far as I can take
it. I think they're capable of better and bigger things.


"With Phil's experience he's better placed than me to take them
forward. The team of (Irish Cricket Union chief executive) Warren
Deutrom and Phil Simmons will continue the momentum forward. The
guys are in good hands."

