

Two Canadian soldiers were killed in Afghanistan Wednesday as the
bodies of six of their comrades who died only days earlier in a
roadside blast were returning home for burial, said reports.


Broadcaster CTV said two soldiers had been killed, but gave no
details. It also said a "lockdown" of Canada's main base in
southern Kandahar province was ordered to prevent media leaks
while authorities confirmed casualties.


"We are aware of an incident, but we don't have any information
yet," defense department spokeswoman Lieutenant Carole Brown told
AFP.


"A lockdown would be ordered in the event of a serious incident,
to allow us to confirm all the information before it is
reported," said Lieutenant Adam Thomson, a media liason.


Canada has deployed some 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan
as part of a NATO operation to quell a Taliban insurgency.


If confirmed, these latest casualties would bring the Canadian
military death toll in Afghanistan to 53 since the start of the
mission in 2002.


Earlier Wednesday, a suicide bombing of a Canadian convoy west of
Kandahar City injured 10 Afghan civilians and caused minor damage
to a vehicle.


On Easter Sunday, Canada suffered its heaviest single-day troop
loss in 50 years with the death of six soldiers, as the nation
marked the 90th anniversary of a key World War I victory in Vimy,
France.


Their light armored vehicle ran over a bomb about 75 kilometers
(47 miles) west of Kandahar City, while traveling a new route
across an ancient canal system, called a kareez, officials said.


The bomb was rigged with a pressure sensor, a battery and a
detonator, and the explosion was so powerful that the six
soldiers inside the troop compartment died instantly.


A seventh soldier was seriously injured when he was blown out of
a hatch. He is now in "stable condition" in a military hospital
in Halifax, Thomson said.


Because Canadians had not taken this road before, authorities
called the Sunday attack a "lucky strike" by the Taliban.

