

Four rival demonstrations are planned this Saturday in Moscow,
but Russia's beleagured opposition to President Vladimir Putin
says the show of political pluralism is a charade.


Eight months ahead of parliamentary polls and less than a year
before the election to replace Putin, Russia's long moribund
political scene is stirring.


Central Moscow will see rallies by the pro-Kremlin Young Guard
youth organisation, the opposition group The Other Russia, the
liberal SPS party, and two ultra-nationalist, anti-immigrant
organisations.


Particular attention is on The Other Russia, a coalition of
widely varying anti- Putin groups in which former chess champion
and liberal activist Gary Kasparov is the key strategist. The
Other Russia has held three protests this year -- the last two of
which were broken up by police.


Kasparov said Thursday that the authorities were doing everything
possible to cripple Saturday's event, first by rejecting an
application to march through central Moscow, and then by giving a
permit for the Young Guard to rally on the square originally
requested by the opposition.


"This is the conscious position of the Kremlin to remove any
dissent in society," he said in an interview with the Noviye
Izvestia daily. "The authorities are showing their weakness. They
are down to their final weapon: brute force."


The Other Russia says it expects about 2,500 people to attend its
rally, dubbed the "Dissenters' March."


The Young Guard, a well-financed pro-Kremlin youth group, is
expecting some 15,000 people -- most of them near Moscow State
University, with a second demonstration far away on the
prestigious Pushkin Square, the location that The Other Russia
had requested.


City officials say that the pro-Putin group simply got its
application in first and that The Other Russia must make do with
another, nearby square.


Kasparov claims that in reality his activists are specially being
kept from their first-choice venue because the layout of Pushkin
Square makes it harder for police to control a crowd.


The scheduling of a rally by the SPS party -- one of the many
liberal organisations forced to the margins of Russian politics
during Putin's seven- year rule -- will further weaken the
opposition movement. Activists will have to decide which of the
protests to attend.


Meanwhile, the hardline Movement Against Illegal Immigration and
the Congress of Russian Communities said they expected about
1,000 people at their event, which is calling for curbs on
immigration.


"Illegal immigrants are used as slaves in Russia and have no
social protection, which can drive them into crime," Congress of
Russian Communities spokesman Sergei Butin said.

