

Blog search giant Technorati announced Thursday the purchase of
custom-news website Personal Bee, to extend its reach in the
blogosphere.


San Francisco-based Technorati, a leading site used to track and
index blogs, will acquire Personal Bee's platform to let users
tailor news pages to individual tastes and then get automated
feedback.


"It is about enabling people to become 'curators,'" Technorati
founder David Sifry told AFP.


"Curators" is a Web term for people that revel in being first to
pass along news and those perpetually hungry fresh developments,
according to Technorati.


"Every family has the person that always passes along jokes or is
the first to say 'Did you hear?'" Sifry said. "And there is the
everyday person that wants to find out the latest gossip. We want
to make them stars."


People will be able to use Technorati's search engine to find
blogs, podcasts, images, video and other material uploaded to the
Internet and then use the Personal Bee platform to present what
they like in their own ways.


Personal Bee launched in Berkeley, California, in September 2006
with a stated vision of letting people craft online newspapers
from blogs, mainstream news websites and "the roar of information
washing over us all everyday."


The Irish Times used the start-up's tools to create a version of
the publication for the Internet, according to Sifry.


"Technorati has evolved beyond searching the blogosphere to
aggregating the vast amount of tagged social media that make up
what we call the Live Web," said Personal Bee founder Ted
Shelton.


"We are adding flexible publishing capabilities so that everyone
can find conversations, track up-and-coming ideas and stories,
and customize the Live Web in any way they like."


Financial details of the purchased were not disclosed.


Technorati-Bee websites will be hosted free and operators be able
to arrange news pages based on their preferences and feedback
captured from visitors, according to Sifry.


More than half of US teenagers that use the Internet create
blogs, webpages, pictures or other online content, according to
the PEW Internet and American Life Project.


The practice is expected to grow even more common as that
generation grows older.


"This is about a democratization of media," Sifry said.


"We are entering an era where many new publishers and many new
voices exist on the Web, and which provides all of us with
extraordinary insight into how people are interpreting and
reacting to their world, all in real time."


As picture-taking mobile telephones and digital movie cameras
grow ubiquitous, Internet users worldwide are being recruited as
citizen news reporters.


Growing brigades of "citizen journalists" are posting breaking
news videos such as YouTube and Revver, and editing their own
news pages on websites such as Digg.


In December Yahoo launched YouWitnessNews, a website that posts
offerings from users after the submissions pass muster with
professional editors.


Founded in Canada almost two years ago, news website
NowPublic.com taps into legions of people that post pictures,
videos, or commentary online.

