

Global banking giant HSBC, which describes itself as 'the world's
local bank,' has drawn the ire of residents of the tiny British
seaside village of Canford Cliffs by withdrawing branch services
for all but the wealthy, The Guardian reported on Thursday.


Only customers with 50,000 pounds (73,500 euros, 98,800 dollars)
in savings, a 200,000-pound mortgage, or a 100,000-pound mortgage
and annual income of 75,000 pounds will get service from the
bank's staff, while all other HSBC account holders will only be
allowed to use machine services.


Those who do not qualify for services with their wealth can still
use the branch in the southern English town, at a cost of 19.95
pounds a month. Customers who are not affluent enough, or are
unwilling to pay the fee, will have to use another branch.


"We are trying to treat everyone fairly -- not everybody in the
world is equal," a bank spokesman was quoted as saying by The
Guardian.


"Some people have higher incomes and need greater services
through the bank. These customers demand a better service."


HSBC's decision makes the Canford Cliffs branch the only one of
its kind in the country -- though there are 48 other "Premier"
branches in Britain, they are all situated within existing
branches.


The bank admitted that it had made the decision because of the
wealth of many of the village's residents, and those of
surrounding areas -- nearby Sandbanks, for example, contains the
largest number of expensive properties outside London.


The decision has still caused consternation among local community
leaders, however, who fear that those who will be hurt most will
be the elderly, who may own their own property, making them
asset-rich, but are low on cash.


"Canford Cliffs has been caricatured as being monochrome wealthy
but we are not like that," said Reverend Jeremy Oakes, the vicar
for the Canford Cliffs and Sandbanks parish.


"We have a lot of retired people who need something local and
accessible."


The HSBC spokesman said the bank would allow customers who were
physically unable to access the closest branches to use the
"Premier"-only branch instead.

