

Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo appears to have tightened
his grip on power in the world's top cocoa producer with the
creation of a new government led by his arch-foe, who launched a
rebellion in  2002.


Although the former west African economic powerhouse remains
sliced in half between the rebel-held north and the government-
controlled south, the recent elevation of ex-rebel leader
Guillaume Soro to prime minister has strengthened Gbagbo's hands,
analysts say.


The rebellion, mounted by discontented soldiers from the mainly
Muslim north who complained of being marginalised by the
Christian-dominated government of Gbagbo, has badly damaged the
once-model economy.


Gbagbo's pointed refusal to step down and Soro's insistence that
he should do so resulted in a stalemate and several mediation
attempts by former colonial ruler France, the United Nations and
a west African regional bloc have fallen flat.


But peace moves appear to have gained ground recently following
the signing of a peace pact between the president and former
rebel supremo in neighbouring Burkina Faso on March 4.


The deal paved the way for a power sharing government with Gbagbo
remaining president and Soro taking over the prime ministerial
job from Charles Konan Banny, a senior banker.


Following the pact, the Ivorian government said foreign troops
patrolling a buffer zone dividing rebel-held areas in the north
from the rest of the country would begin to withdraw by the
middle of this month.


Some 7,800 blue-helmet troops and 3,500 French forces have been
operating in the Ivory Coast under a United Nations mandate.


Gbagbo does not hide his elation at the turn of events. On Easter
Sunday, he announced in the central town of Bocanda that he would
soon set a date for elections, pushed pack several times since
his tenure ended in 2005.


He also said he would soon tour the rebel-held north, something
he has not done since the rebellion broke out in September 2002.


The media and observers say Gbagbo appears to have won the first
round by seizing control of two key ministries -- interior and
defence -- in the new government.


Gbagbo's party and allies hold 11 posts in the transitional
government while Soro's former New Forces rebel group have a
total of seven portfolios, including justice, tourism and
communication.


"One would go round in circles if one seeks to understand why the
prime minister has made so many concessions to the head of
state," the independent Soir Info daily said Tuesday.


The other contentious point is exactly how much power Soro will
wield as it has not been clearly spelt out.


"It is difficult to believe that Gbagbo has agreed to share
power," one Western diplomat noted, adding that Soro had "perhaps
given in a little too fast."


Political analysts say that Soro would also be constrained to
give his all to make the peace accord work as he would lose
international backing if the latest peace initiative flopped.


The previous track record of both men has been less than
sterling. Each has accused the other of breaching peace accords,
traded insults and both have repeatedly gone back on their word.


A Western diplomat warned that it was time "Soro united the
opposition and took decisions or he would let Gbagbo organise his
camp."


Another diplomat said: "One has the impression that Gbagbo holds
all the cards and is scenting victory in elections."


The pro-opposition and pro-rebel Nord-Sud daily on Tuesday said
that the overwhelming impression was that Soro had in effect
"paved the way for Gbagbo's re-election."


But other political observers say Soro entered into a covert
arrangement with the president by accepting his future re-
election in exchange for the rehabilitation of the former New
Forces rebels.

