

He's the size of a man's hand and weighs less than a cell phone:
Bilbo, a bamboo lemur rejected by his mother at birth at a
Stockholm zoo, is out of danger but his handlers are struggling
to get his parents to accept him.


"Bilbo is confused. He probably doesn't know he is a bamboo lemur
and thinks I am his mother," said Veronica Lindberg, a 26-year-
old handler at the Skansen zoo. "He always wants to be with me,
to stay with me, on my head, probably because it's similar to his
mother's pelt."


Lindberg has devoted the past six weeks, night and day, to the
little creature that has not left her side since he was born. She
feeds him, carries him, gives him all the affection he needs and
has even brought him home to her apartment.


Saving a bamboo lemur rejected at birth is a major feat, not
least because of the problems posed by feeding it.


"During the first seven days I fed him every hour, night and
day," she told AFP.


"We started with only baby formula the first week, then we gave
him a mixture of formula and cat milk," she said, adding that he
is now also eating pellets.


Bilbo is not yet entirely weaned but he is healthy, growing
everyday, said Lindberg, who admitted that she is increasingly
fearing the moment the two will have to be separated.


"The separation will probably be harder for me than for him," she
said with a laugh.


The tiny creature is one of only about 25 bamboo lemurs living in
captivity in the world. Originally from Madagascar, bamboo lemurs
-- who eat bamboo, hence their name -- are the smallest species
of lemurs. As adults, these four-legged primates with small
snouts, soft brown woolly fur, small ears and long fuzzy tails,
usually between 500 and 700 grams, and at most one kilo. They
live for 15 to 20 years on average.


Swedish media went crazy for the rare animal when news of his
birth and rejection by his mother became known last week. Bilbo's
picture has since been spread across the Internet, rivalling him
in the Swedish media with Knut, the more famous polar bear
recently born at Berlin's zoo.


Since his birth on February 22, Bilbo has tripled in size to
measure 30 centimeters (12 inches) including his tail, and his
weight has increased from 30 grams (1.05 ounces) to 170 grams
(6.0 ounces).


Skansen's animal handlers are confident that he has passed the
critical stage and no longer worry about his survival. Now they
are trying to figure out how to get his parents to accept him.


"Everything has worked much better than expected. The major risks
are behind us but now comes another sensitive step," explained Bo
Jonsson, Skansen's mammals curator.


Bilbo is not yet aware that he is a lemur and that this is not
the normal situation, Jonsson said. "But he will become more and
more aware as his instincts develop."


If he fails to bond with other lemurs, he could become
aggressive.


"He won't be very dangerous to us because even when he is an
adult he will only weigh around one kilo (2.2 pounds)," said
Jonsson.


But the Skansen team wants to make sure Bilbo does not take on
human ways.


They hope to integrate him quickly, as soon as he is weaned. The
longer it takes "the more difficult it can be to reintroduce him
in captivity," Jonsson said.


Whether or not Bilbo can be reintegrated into his own family
remains to be seen. His mother Prune is still aggressive toward
her offspring and Bilbo cannot be placed in the same cage for the
time being.


This kind of "rejection is not common but it's not rare either,"
said Jonsson.


Bilbo has seen his parents around 10 times since he was born and
each time he has looked around curiously, "but he doesn't really
understand the situation," Lindberg said.


He has not yet been introduced into the cage, "because we don't
know if his parents may kill him," she said.


Jonsson said the Skansen team would first try to reacquaint Bilbo
with his father, who has shown interest in him when handlers have
held him up to the glass window of the lemur cage.


If that goes well, then an attempt will be made with the mother.


But if those efforts fail Bilbo may have to be sent to another
zoo, possibly in France which has four or five bamboo lemurs.


"We don't want to give him up. But if it doesn't work with his
own parents we will try to find another lemur for Bilbo to grow
up with," Jonsson said.

