

The Auckland Blues have relegated three frontline All Blacks to
the bench for Saturday's heavyweight Super 14 clash with the
Coastal Sharks in a surprise move as the competition intensifies.


Even though the Canterbury Crusaders are within striking distance
of the table- topping Blues, coach David Nucifora said he was
taking a broader view as he starts without Keven Mealamu, Ali
Williams and Joe Rokocoko.


The Blues head into the weekend on 36 points, four clear of
defending champions the Crusaders, with the Sharks third a
further two points back.


But even leading the competition at this stage does not yet
guarantee the Blues a semi-final berth, with most sides still
holding a mathematical chance at least of making the top four.


In deciding to keep Mealamu, Williams and Rokocoko out of the
starting line-up against the Sharks, Nucifora said he had to take
into account player management and next week's departure for a
two-match trip to South Africa.


"Travel time, recovery and strengths of our opponents all need to
be factored into decisions made for team selection both now and
in the weeks to come," he said.


"If the true quality of a side is revealed when on tour, then
managing individuals carefully over the next few weeks is even
more crucial."


The Sharks, South Africa's leading semi-finals contenders,
arrested a two-match losing streak when they thumped the
Queensland Reds last week and need a win over the Blues to keep
the momentum going.


But they will need a 100 percent defensive effort to shut down a
side renowned for attacking at every opportunity, and described
by Sharks coach Dick Muir as "formidable ... a side we've been
watching most of the season."


The Crusaders, who wobbled through the first half of the season,
are making their charge when it counts and look set to account
for the Otago Highlanders this weekend.


In the past two weeks the Crusaders have piled on 14 tries and
against the Highlanders they have the luxury of resting All
Blacks Rico Gear and Andy Ellis and replacing them with fellow
All Blacks Scott Hamilton and Kevin Senio.


The Highlanders, level with the Waikato Chiefs and Northern Bulls
on 22 points, just behind the fifth placed Western Force, lack
the big game-breakers many other sides possess.


They also had the misfortune this week to lose one of their few
stars, All Blacks lock James Ryan, who is out for the rest of the
season with a knee ligament injury.


Two sides with much to play for in round 11 are the fifth and
sixth-placed Western Force and Chiefs who clash in Hamilton and
see the opportunity to overtake the ACT Brumbies who occupy
fourth spot but have the bye this weekend.


But as the Chiefs are bolstered by the return to the starting
line-up of captain and lock Jono Gibbes who has been sidelined
with injury most of the season, inspirational loose forwards
Marty Holah and Steven Bates are rested.


"This is a tough call, particularly on Marty, but he has been
battered in his last two games," said Chiefs coach Ian Foster.


The Force, who surprisingly carried the Australian banner for
most of the season, are desperate to make amends after being
evicted from the top four last weekend when hammered by the
Crusaders 0-53.


The Bulls, who still fancy a late charge to the play-offs, have
brought back Springboks Wynand Olivier and Pierre Spies, dropped
Akona Ndungane and shifted Jaco van der Westhuyzen to the wing
for their vital clash with the Stormers.


Although the Stormers have only an outside chance of making the
semi-finals, they can still play the role of spoiler against the
Bulls.


In the remaining matches, the Wellington Hurricanes host the
Cheetahs on Friday night, the New South Wales Waratahs are at
home to the Queensland Reds in a bottom-of-the-table encounter.

