

The US military has lied about the death two years ago in Iraq of
an Italian secret service agent who freed hostage Giuliana
Sgrena, the Italian journalist charged Wednesday.


"I think it wasn't an accident. Someone prepared it, even if
there was no explicit order," the journalist for the left-wing Il
Manifesto newspaper told AFP of the evening of March 4, 2005,
when one or more US soldiers fired on the car that was taking her
to Baghdad airport.


Specialist Mario Lozano, who goes on trial in absentia in Rome
next week for voluntary homicide in the case, "can't say what he
wants to," Sgrena said, suggesting that he has been instructed to
lie. "I think he underwent a debriefing," she said.


Speaking in her office at Il Manifesto, Sgrena was calm but
exuded a quiet anger.


When asked about the US report stating that communications broke
down at a crucial moment, leaving Lozano's command in the dark
about the movements of then US ambassador to Iraq John
Negroponte, she said: "It's not possible. I think it's a lie."


Moreover, Italian investigators asked for transcripts of US
military communications during the ordeal and were told that they
had been destroyed, Sgrena said.


"All satellite and cell phone communications are recorded," she
said, charging: "But they said they couldn't save all
communications."


According to a US military report on the tragedy, communications
to the checkpoint where agent Nicola Calipari was killed had been
abruptly cut off just beforehand.


Higher-ups were unable to get the message to the patrol to end a
roadblock set up for the security of Negroponte after it was no
longer necessary because weather conditions allowed him to take a
helicopter instead of the dangerous road, it said.


But Sgrena said: "The American report is unbelievable. There are
contradictions even within the statements of different soldiers."


Sgrena insists that the maximum speed attained by the Toyota
Corolla that she was riding in was 65 kilometers (40 miles) an
hour, while the US report put the speed at 50 mph (80 kph).


"Given the way they fired, it's difficult to think that anyone
could come out alive," she said.


On Monday, Lozano told the New York Post in his first major
interview since the incident that Sgrena's vehicle was moving at
speed towards his checkpoint.


"If you hesitate, you come home in a box -- and I didn't want to
come home in a box. I did what any soldier would do in my
position," Lozano told the newspaper.


"You have a warning line, you have a danger line, and you have a
kill line," he said. "Anyone inside 100 meters (yards) is already
in the danger zone ... and you've got to take them out."


Calipari, who shielded Sgrena during the shooting, was hailed as
a hero at home, awarded Italy's top bravery award and given a
state funeral attended by tens of thousands.


A US inquiry exonerated Lozano, with US authorities saying that
Calipari's car was travelling too fast, had not slowed down and
that Italian officials had not told them of the operation to free
Sgrena.


But Sgrena said US authorities "knew from the morning" of her
release and she noted that a US helicopter had hovered over the
site where she was freed.


She also scoffed at media reports that she had been anxious to
attend a music festival in San Remo, northern Italy.


"It was a joke they heard while listening in on our phone
conversations with Italy" while en route to the fatal checkpoint,
she said.

