

Coffee, honey vodka and political talk are the order of the day
at the Blue Bottle, a smokey cafe here in a ramshackle courtyard
in the heartland city of Ukrainian nationalism.


Mention the relentless rise of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych, currently locked in a fierce struggle with President
Viktor Yushchenko, and patrons of the cafe don't mince their
words.


"It's like when Rome let in the barbarians and then they sacked
the city," said Ostap Odushkin, a wry philosophy professor from
Lviv university.


Like many cafe regulars, all in their 20s and 30s, Odushkin took
part in the Orange Revolution mass protests of 2004 that brought
to power pro-Western Yushchenko against Moscow-backed Yanukovych.


"The revolution changed our mentalities, but now it's just
theatre. They're like actors dividing up the money," said Katya
Terebenets, 25, a mobile phone shop manager, her blonde hair
glowing in the candlelight.


Yushchenko on April 2 ordered the dissolution of parliament and
early elections after a months-long power struggle with
Yanukovych, who has refused to obey the president's order and
insists that fresh elections would be illegal.


Yanukovych is unpopular here in the centre of nationalist western
Ukraine. The bar goes silent when a waiter, Igor, mentions that
the prime minister came to the cafe last year during an election
campaign and seemed nice enough.


"What? Just imagine what would happen if the guys from Donetsk
come and take your place over. Just imagine the fights. It would
be a nightmare," said Grigory Tsytsyn, a local doctor.


The political crisis in Ukraine has exacerbated divisions between
the east of the country, centred on mostly Russian-speaking
cities such as Donetsk, where Yanukovych comes from, and the
mainly Ukrainian-speaking west.


"There is a divide. People are not doing enough to unite this
country. It's a place with two different mentalities," said
Father Marek, who asked that his last name not be used, a Polish
Catholic priest who has worked in Lviv for the last 15 years.


The Renaissance palaces and Baroque churches on the cobblestone
streets of this elegant city commemorate a bygone age of
prosperity that many here look back on with nostalgia after years
of rule by Moscow.


In the east of the country, the derogatory label for inhabitants
of Lviv is "Bandera's People," a reference to Stepan Bandera, a
20th century nationalist who fought against the Soviet Union in
World War II and was poisoned by the KGB.


Lviv residents refer to the Blue Bottle as the "separatist cafe."


While there  are no genuine separatists here, there is a
political vibrancy in this proud city of 700,000 people, where
history is never far from present day politics.


The cafe seeks to recreate the feel of a time seen as Lviv's
golden age when the city was part of 19th-century Galicia, a
territory once ruled by the Austro- Hungarian empire that is now
split between Ukraine and Poland, now just 60 kilometres (37
miles) away.


The bar is run by pony-tailed activist Markiyan Ivashchishin, who
took part in protests against Soviet power in 1990 and was an
active participant in the Orange Revolution.


Yushchenko's Our Ukraine party has set up offices on Crooked Lime
Tree Alley, a Lviv backstreet where nationalists once gathered in
secret during Soviet times.


The city's nostalgia can also take a more light-hearted tone.
Every year, the "Knights of Galicia" awards are given to city
public figures and intellectuals at medieval-style ceremonies
presided over by a "King of Galicia."


This pseudo-aristocracy is the brainchild of Taras Voznyak,
editor of a cultural journal called "Ji," the 13th letter of the
Ukrainian alphabet, and an eloquent commentator on his city.


In a recent article about Lviv in which he called for the city to
build more links with the European Union, Voznyak wrote: "Lviv
should become the centre where the new 'Ukrainian idea,' the new
'Ukrainian project,' will flourish."

