

As a respected UN panel unveils a hard-hitting report on the
danger of global warming, farmers in one of China's most fertile
crop-growing regions fear another year of devastating drought.


"I have never seen a drought like the one we had last year, we
had nearly 70 days without rain," said Wang Laoer, a farmer in
China's southwest Chongqing municipality who lost one of two
annual vegetable harvests to the dry spell.


"Everyone here is afraid that the drought will continue this
year."


The region's worst drought in a century hit last year, bringing
scorching temperatures and water shortages to the Sichuan Basin,
a historically fertile area where a group of rivers flow down
from the Himalayas into the mighty Yangtze river, China's
largest.


The basin is home to about 85 million people in Sichuan province
and another 31 million in Chongqing municipality, two of China's
most densely populated regions.


The drought affected 11.1 million hectares (27.5 million acres)
of cropland, roughly nine percent of China's total farming area,
the State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters said.


"We think that global warming was a factor and we definitely are
not ruling out that global warming made the drought worse," Yuan
Yonghui, an official at the drought headquarters of the Chongqing
Water Bureau, told AFP.


"We believe that Chongqing will again suffer from drought in the
coming months."


Fears here of more extreme weather came as the world's top
climate scientists finalised a grim 1,400-page report last week
on the current and future impacts of global warming caused by
fossil fuel pollution.


The report by the UN International Panel on Climate Change
predicted billions of people would face water scarcity and
hundreds of millions would likely go hungry.


In Chongqing, last summer's drought still lingers with the water
levels on the Yangtze river remaining near historic lows, while
many of its tributaries are drying up and becoming so shallow
that people can walk across.


The drought has also brought into question the functions of the
25-billion- dollar Three Gorges Dam, the world's biggest
hydroelectric project, that sits below Chongqing and accumulates
water from the Yangtze, Yuan said.


Press reports have said that the controversial dam had to reduce
electrical output to ensure adequate water levels for river
transport below Chongqing.


Although maritime transport below Chongqing was not interrupted,
low water levels halted vessels above the municipality, according
to Yuan.


Maritime travel on the Jialing river that flows into the Yangtze
at Chongqing was stopped for nearly four weeks in February and
March, Yuan said.


Scores of reservoirs that sit behind other hydroelectric dams on
the Yangtze tributaries have also been ordered to release waters
for the drinking and irrigation needs of millions of people.


"Since the government ordered the dams to release water the
situation has been alleviated somewhat, but this has disrupted
electricity generation," said environmentalist Fan Xiao, who also
works as a geologist at a research institute of the Sichuan
Mining Administration.


However Fan said the central government only ordered the release
of the water due to the extreme circumstances, and farmers should
not expect such relief in the future.


"We are seeing a growing confrontation between the water
interests of the dams and the interests of farmers... and almost
always it is the farmers who lose out," he said.


With water levels in reservoirs in the region currently only
about 40 percent of normal capacity and the irrigation season
about to begin, the Sichuan Basin is likely to face another
difficult year, he said.

