

Diego Maradona faces treatment for alcoholism after being
released from hospital, but the Argentine football idol still
hopes to attend a major game of his beloved Boca Juniors team.


Maradona, 46, will be treated at home for at least two weeks with
a medical team, a therapist and nurses on watch for 24 hours to
care for the former Argentina captain.


Doctors will consider after his two-week house treatment whether
to fly him to Switzerland for further care.


The former Boca Juniors, Barcelona and Napoli star, who was
hospitalized in 2000 and 2004 after heart attacks following
cocaine overdoses, said Wednesday he would follow the treatment.


"If I mess up, the only one who gets hurt is me," he told local
media. "I'm calm."


Guemes Sanatorium director Hector Pezzella said Maradona "must
follow the prescribed treatment and diet."


After Maradona was released from Guemes in Buenos Aires
Wednesday, his personal doctor, Alfredo Cahe, said Maradona had
made a "surprising" recovery from toxic hepatitis induced by
drinking.


"His physical and psychological evolution is so good, even I am
astonished," Cahe told reporters.


The star, who was rushed to the clinic on March 28, lost between
six and seven kilos (13 and 15 pounds) during the hospital stay,
Cahe said.


Maradona may even be healthy enough to go to Boca Juniors'
stadium to watch his team take on arch-rivals River Plate in the
10th round of Argentina's Clausura tournament, Cahe said.


"On Sunday I will go (to the stadium), with IV, with my doctor,
in ambulance, however," Maradona said in a telephone interview
with TyC Sports channel, predicting that Boca would win.


Maradona, who has a special booth at the "Candy Box," as the fans
call the stadium, vowed to go see Boca "until I use the last drop
of my blood."


It is not the first time Maradona, named one of the 20th
century's greatest players after leading his squad to the 1986
World Cup title, has been hospitalized due to his excessive
lifestyle.


But according to Cahe, this time Maradona has acknowledged his
problems.


"Diego is very intelligent, extremely intuitive," Cahe said. "It
is difficult to maintain with him a dialogue with questions and
answers, but he knows how to listen."


Maradona "is lucid, coherent, calm," said Daniel Tejada, one of
the two psychiatrists who looked after him at the hospital.


According to a source close to his family, Maradona is staying in
a country house in Ezeiza, a town south of the capital where his
girlfriend Veronica Ojeda lives.


Recent Argentine media reports have focused on Maradona's heavy
drinking and obesity, noting he has put back on many pounds
(kilograms) since undergoing gastric bypass surgery in 2005 to
get his weight under control.


Maradona's career on and off the football field has been marred
by repeated drug and alcohol abuse. He has suffered from
hepatitis B since 1991, when he played for Barcelona.


His problems only worsened after he retired from professional
football in 1997. In 2000, Maradona had a heart attack in Uruguay
following a cocaine overdose. Four years later, another heart
attack followed another overdose.


While he stayed in the hospital this time, he was accompanied for
almost the entire period by his daughters Dalma and Giannina. At
times his ex-wife Claudia Villafane was also by his side.

