

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz dodged a series of questions
Wednesday over big pay raises given to his partner that have left
staff at the development lender fuming.


Wolfowitz grew exasperated as the controversy surrounding his
Libyan-born girlfriend, an ex-World Bank staffer, threatened to
submerge a press briefing that was ostensibly about Africa.


"You have to ask, I have to answer," he parried after the first
question about Shaha Riza, who ended up earning nearly 200,000
dollars during an external assignment from the World Bank to the
US State Department.


"Look, we have an ad-hoc committee that's dealing with that
issue. I'm comfortable with that, and that's all I have to say
about it for now," the former deputy US defense secretary said.


Asked if he was personally involving in framing the terms of
Riza's assignment, Wolfowitz said: "I repeat what I said: the
committee's dealing with it and I am comfortable with that."


Undaunted, another reporter then tried to probe the issue, which
threatens to overshadow the World Bank's annual spring meeting
taking place this weekend.


"Look, you're not going to get more out of me than what I just
said. And I don't think it's fair to the rest of the agenda to
take up this valuable time," Wolfowitz said, his tone becoming
tetchy.


"I mean, we can fence back and forth, but I can't say more than
what I said now. Hopefully, at some point in the future, I'll be
able to answer all your questions but I can't now."


The controversy has embarrassed Wolfowitz just as he battles to
overcome skepticism about a campaign that he is waging against
corruption in the World Bank's multibillion dollar lending.


Riza was pulled off her job as a communications officer at the
World Bank and assigned to the State Department in September
2005, shortly after Wolfowitz took over at the lender's helm, to
prevent any conflicts of interest.


While still on the bank payroll, Riza was then rapidly promoted
and went on to be paid more even than Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice, sparking fury among bank staff and an
investigation by the bank's board of governors.


In an extraordinary statement Monday to staff that did not
mention Riza by name, Wolfowitz accepted "full responsibility"
over the case but said he had "acted on the advice" of the bank's
ethics committee.

