

Fairtrade coffee and bananas okay. But whole fairtrade towns? The
historic English cathedral city of Canterbury has joined the
revolution to better the lot of Third World peasants.


"Not only the city, but also the district of Canterbury was
designated in March of last year 'fairtrade district'," said Matt
McLellan, policy officer at the Canterbury City Council.


In fact, Canterbury is among 230 towns in Britain that have
obtained the seal in the last seven years, with 2,500 fair-trade
goods on the market.


But how can a World Heritage site that draws one million visitors
annually receive the same stamp usually given to products ranging
from sugar and tea to furniture, as well as cotton, flowers,
honey and wine?


Today, hundreds of small and and large stores as well as
businesses, factories, schools, hospitals, universities,
residents associations and churches in the district buy or sell
ethical products.


McLellan recalled that this rich southern English farming
district made a bureaucratic journey to join a movement aimed at
guaranteeing that peasants are paid their fair share of the
prices their crops earn on the world market.


It began in 2003 when activists for fair-trade advocacy
organisations like Oxfam, religious and community groups joined
forces to create the Canterbury Fairtrade District Network
(CFDN).


The grouping decided that the best way to progress was to get the
city to become accredited as a fair-trade district by the
Fairtrade Foundation, the British member of Fairtrade Labelling
Organisations International (FLO).


The FLO unites 21 national initiatives across Australia, Europe,
Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and North America.


"There were a lot of activities to raise awareness of trade
justice. For example, a group of local clergy ran a pancake race,
hundreds of people came," McLellan said.


Canterbury's model was the English city of Garstang, Lancashire,
about 500 kilometers (300 miles) north of Canterbury, the first
city in the world to win the fair-trade stamp, when it was
granted the status in 2000.


For this, it needed the support of politicians and the
population.


The city started working in 2004 with the Canterbury Fairtrade
District Network (CFDN) and in 2005 carried out a survey among
12,000 residents to see if they wanted more fair-trade products
and support the fairtrade agenda.


"And 95 percent said yes," McLellan recalled.


In 2005, the city council adopted a resolution supporting fair
trade and advocates launched a campaign to get the Fairtrade Mark
for the Canterbury district, the cathedral and the University of
Kent.


The label means that a certain proportion of local business must
sell or use fair-trade products.


A successful promotion campaign followed, McLellan recalled, not
only because of the "ethical value, to help poor peasants from
the Third World, but because the products are excellent."


Susan Barrington, a 27-year-old nurse, prefers to shop in stores
like Siesta which sell such products.


"Why do I buy fairtrade?" Barrington asked.


"Well, I know it is not much, but I think that if many of us do
something to help, even if it is small, like deciding to drink
only fairtrade coffee or eat fairtrade bananas, it could make a
difference to peasants in Latin America, in Africa," she said.


"For example, I think it is good that Sainsbury just announced
that all its bananas would now be fairtrade, and that tea and
coffee in Marks and Spencer is now exclusively fairtrade," she
said.


Two years ago, some 800 ethical products were sold in Britain.


Today, there are around 2,500 sold and Britons now spend nearly
two billion pounds (2.94 billion euros) per year on such
products, or an increase of 62 percent over 2002, according to
Mintel consumer information group.


Barbara Crowther of the Fairtrade Foundation said the benefits
are important and growing for the Third World.


"Fairtrade can give farmers a stability of income. In terms of
volume and range of fair-trade items available to the consumer,
the UK is the world's leader," Crowther said.

