

Matthew Hayden's explosive start to the World Cup has put him on
course to break Indian master Sachin Tendulkar's record of most
one-day international runs made in a year.


The veteran Australian opener is the top scorer in the World Cup
with 436 runs which has taken his total for 2007 to 1,042.


Tendulkar holds the record of 1,894 set in 1998 but that mark is
in danger because of Hayden's pyrotechnics.


The 35-year-old Australian batsman had already set one record at
the World Cup by becoming the fastest man to reach 1,000 one-day
runs in a year.


He acheived that when he made an unbeaten 47 against Bangladesh
on March 31, almost two months faster than the previous best set
by India captain Rahul Dravid in 1999.


It took Hayden just 18 matches to reach the 1,000-mark; Tendulkar
took one match more in 1998.


The left-handed Hayden has enjoyed a remarkable World Cup,
hitting two centuries and one fifty in six innings as defending
champions Australia have won all six matches played.


Against the West Indies in the opening Super Eights match, he
made 158, the highest ever World Cup score made by an Australian
player.


But it has been a rocky road to the top for the muscular
Queenslander.


He was dropped from the one-day side for the best part of a year
after the 2005 tour of England with Phil Jaques, Shane Watson and
Simon Katich all given a run instead.


But he forced his way back in and in February scored an
Australian one-day record 181 not out against New Zealand in
Hamilton - a match where his toe was broken by fast bowler Mark
Gillespie.


"I've had a lot of commitment and passion, to get back into the
side," said Hayden, who played in the 2003 World Cup winning
team.


"In particular, to represent Australia at the World Cup is an
enormous privilege and honour. It's a special side to be a part
of - and it's never meant to be an easy thing to play for
Australia.


"I said when I got dropped a couple of years back that I didn't
feel I was ready to let the (one-day) game go - that world-class
players play both forms of the game. I'm just very happy that
it's coming off right now."


His opening partner Adam Gilchrist has described Hayden as an
'intimidating' talent.


"Matty has been the standout performer," said Gilchrist earlier
in the tournament.


"He's in really intimidating form at the moment and to be part of
that parternership is really pleasing."


Hayden has a golden opportunity to add to his tally here on
Friday when Australia face Ireland.

