

Visiting Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao Thursday extended an offer of
friendship to Japan, striking a conciliatory tone on wartime
history -- an issue that has dogged relations for years.


Wen, making the first address to the Japanese parliament by a
Chinese leader in more than two decades as part of his fence-
mending visit, urged the Asian powers to resolve their disputes
peacefully.


"The Chinese public must foster friendship with Japanese people,"
he said, the flags of the two countries waving behind the podium.


Wen, the first Chinese premier to visit Tokyo in seven years,
laid the blame for Japan's invasion and 1931-1945 occupation of
China -- still a bitter memory for many Chinese -- on the
shoulders of a "limited number" of wartime leaders.


He also acknowledged the Japanese people had suffered as well.


"As the Chinese leaders of the past generations have said, the
responsibility for the war of aggression should rest with a
limited number of militarists," Wen said.


"The general Japanese public were also victims of the war."


China and Japan have become increasingly economically
interlinked, with Japan counting on its giant neighbour as a
vital source both for workers and for middle-class consumers.


But relations between Asia's two largest economies were badly
strained during the 2001-2006 tenure of Japanese premier
Junichiro Koizumi, who repeatedly visited a war shrine Beijing
and Seoul associate with imperialism.


Just days after taking over from Koizumi, Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe -- who made his career as a hardliner on emotive history
issues -- went to Beijing in October.


Wen, who met Abe Wednesday for a dinner of sushi and Japanese
beef, told Japanese lawmakers Thursday that while their prime
minister's visit to Beijing had broken the ice, he aimed to
"melt" the ice with his trip to Tokyo.


The Chinese premier did his best to take his message of
friendship to the public, taking an early morning jog before his
address to parliament.


Sporting black sportswear bearing logos for next year's Beijing
Olympics, the 64 -year-old Wen jogged around a Tokyo park,
chatted with members of the public and showed off a few tai chi
moves.


"What do you do for a living?" Wen asked one woman through a
translator, as a group of security guards and Chinese ambassador
to Tokyo Wang Yi looked on.


"I am a barber," she replied in Japanese.


"I am Wen Jiabao," he replied.


"I saw you on TV," she said.


In his address to the Japanese parliament, Wen made no reference
to any specific disputes on history such as the Yasukuni war
shrine in Tokyo or Abe's recent controversial remarks on World
War II sex slaves.


Instead, he said he understood Japan's global aspirations.


"We understand Japan's desire to play a yet greater role," Wen
said.


China, the only Asian nation with veto power on the UN Security
Council, in 2005 scuttled Japan's cherished bid for a permanent
seat on the prestigious body, saying Tokyo had not atoned for its
past atrocities.


Wen stopped short of supporting the Security Council bid, saying,
"China is prepared to improve our bilateral understanding by
strengthening dialogue."


He also called for dialogue to solve one of the most intractable
disputes dividing the two countries -- a feud over vast gas
fields in the East China Sea.


"We will try to make the sea a sea of peace, cooperation and
friendship," Wen said.

