

An operatic tribute to India's "father of the nation" Mahatma
Gandhi penned by minimalist composer Philip Glass is showing in
London during the 60th anniversary year of India's independence.


"Satyagraha" is staged with extraordinary vividness and features
giant puppets, Chinese lanterns and pyrotechnics, while the
mantra-like quality of Glass's music also pulls the audience into
a world of serenity.


The title refers to the non-violent resistance which Gandhi first
embraced in South Africa, where he defended the civil rights of
the Indian community and others, in 1906.


It is this period which the work focuses on, although the concept
-- which means truth or love (satya) and firmness (agraha) -- was
also used during his struggles to liberate India from British
rule.


The opera is performed in Sanskrit and draws on the Bhagavad
Gita, the Hindu holy book which Gandhi read every day.


Each act turns on three "spiritual guardians" representing the
past, present and future of satyagraha: Russian writer Leo
Tolstoy, who was a friend of Gandhi, Indian Nobel Prize-winning
poet Rabindranath Tagore and American civil rights leader Martin
Luther King.


Occasional words and phrases are projected onto a backdrop to
guide the audience through the three acts of the opera, which is
playing at the English National Opera's Coliseum in London's West
End theatre district until May 1.


Glass's opera is the second in a trilogy of works about men who
changed the world. The two other subjects are physicist Albert
Einstein and the ancient Egyptian king Akhnaten.


The ENO's staging comes in the year of Glass's 70th birthday. Now
considered one of the most influential composers alive, he has
worked with figures as diverse as Ravi Shankar, Allen Ginsburg
and Paul Simon.


In the last couple of years, he has worked with Leonard Cohen to
put a book of the American singer's poetry to music, as well as
crafting symphonies, etudes for piano and a violin concerto.


Although it was premiered in 1980, the London production of
"Satyagraha" has been given a more modern slant thanks to the
involvement of director Phelim McDermott and designer Julian
Crouch of British theatre company Improbable.


They achieved international recognition for work on productions
including "Shockheaded Peter," a riotous, gothic retelling of
Heinrich Hoffmann's 19th- century children's book "Der
Struwwelpeter," which played in London and New York.


Improbable was also behind "The Hanging Man," a bittersweet
morality tale which played at the Sydney Opera House last year.


The company typically favours the use of improvisation, puppetry,
music and animation to create uplifting, playful pieces full of
child-like wonder.


The latest production of the work has been enthusiastically
received by critics -- Time magazine described it as "the most
exhilarating opera composed since World War II," while Britain's
Independent said it was an "extraordinary success."


The Guardian added that the work was "astonishingly beautiful."


"The show's staging is "a thing of wonder," the paper's reviewer
wrote.


"Hope is born from deprivation as sheets of corrugated iron and
vast quantities of newsprint are transformed into symbols of a
new order...


"The whole thing serves as a monumental affirmation of human
dignity at a time when many have begun to question its very
existence -- and for that, we must be infinitely grateful."

