

The United States said Wednesday it was reluctant to negotiate a
free-trade deal with Japan unless the Asian nation opened up its
tightly shut agriculture sector.


Although Washington agreed to exclude rice from the recently
concluded free- trade agreement with South Korea, it would not
offer a similar concession to Japan, Assistant US Trade
Representative Wendy Cutler told reporters.


Cutler was the chief US negotiator of the pact with South Korea,
the biggest free-trade deal since the 1993 North American Free
Trade Agreement.


"Clearly the agriculture sector provides an obstacle to entering
into such negotiations with Japan because to date, Japan, unlike
Korea, has been -- let's be honest -- unwilling to put its
agriculture sector on the table and negotiate concrete market-
opening provisions," she said.


Rice, of which the United States is a major producer, has long
been one of Japan's most protected products.


Tokyo uses tariffs, farm subsidies and production controls to
block nearly all cheap foreign rice.


Seoul's agreement with the United States will give Korean
companies an edge in the US market over Japan and their other
Asian competitors.


A day after the deal, Japan said it would study a free-trade
agreement with the United States and wanted to restart trade
talks with South Korea.


But Cutler said excluding rice would not become a pattern as
Washington negotiates other free-trade pacts in Asia.


"The fact that rice was excluded from this agreement does not set
a precedent for other FTA negotiations US may enter into in the
future," she said when asked whether rice might be excluded in
any pact with Japan.


Cutler also said that the US-South Korea free-trade deal "is
probably the most forward-leaning and detailed and comprehensive
FTA that the region so far has witnessed."


The 24-chapter pact covers extensive non-tariff measures as well
as critical sectors such as intellectual property, investment and
financial services. And it "comprehensively addresses" barriers
in the agriculture sector, she said.


US negotiators had pushed South Korea hard to include rice in the
agreement but Seoul resisted to the very end.


"We had therefore the decision to make between a very, very good
deal that was achievable or a perfect deal that would not be
achievable," Deputy USTR Karan Bhatia said last week.


Cutler said the free-trade agreement clearly put South Korean
reformers in a "unique position" to push the Asian nation to a
higher level in the global economy.


"It became apparent during the negotiations that there was a
struggle within Korea between the ministries that wanted to open
up and reform Korea's economy and other ministries -- and I would
be diplomatic here -- which were more inward-looking," she said.


"Ultimately, these issues were taken to the cabinet level in
Korea and under the leadership of President Roh (Moo-Hyun) they
were resolved in a pro-reform and market-opening manner," she
said.


Cutler left open the possibility of including labor and
environmental provisions in the agreement with South Korea, in
line with current talks between the administration of President
George W. Bush and Congress.


"The Congress and administration are currently in discussions
more broadly about labor provisions and possibly other provisions
with respect to FTAs and we have (made) Korea aware of these
discussions.


"When these discussions are concluded, we will need to discuss
with Korea the way forward," she said.

