

Rapper Snoop Dogg escaped a jail term after appearing at a
California court on Wednesday and pleading no contest to two
charges of illegally possessing a gun and marijuana.


The 35-year-old musician -- real name Calvin Broadus -- was given
a three-year suspended sentence and handed five years of
probation by the court in Pasadena, northeast of Los Angeles.


He was also ordered to perform 800 hours of community service.
Pasadena Superior Court Judge Terry Smerling said Broadus could
serve half of the hours through working with the youth American
football league he runs.


Defense lawyer Donald Etra said Broadus was grateful for the
sentence.


"He recognizes the severity of this," Etra said. "He recognizes
he got a great a deal and he fully intends to make sure nothing
prohibits him from keeping his part of the bargain."


Prosecutors meanwhile said they were satisfied with the sentence.


"We feel this is an equitable arrangement," prosecutor Sandi
Gibbons said.


"Five years' probation is a very long period for these types of
crimes, and the fact that he knows he will go to state prison --
no ifs ands or buts -- if he violates probation is very
important."


A crowd of cheering fans greeted Broadus as he left the court
without commenting, before being whisked away in a black Cadillac
Escalade.


The charges date to October, when police discovered marijuana in
the rapper's car while confronting him over a parking violation
at Burbank's Bob Hope airport.


The gun charge was added after the weapon was discovered at the
rapper's home by police, authorities said.


Broadus was convicted of felony drug charges in 1990, making it
illegal to own a firearm. Prosecutors said before the hearing
that Broadus could have been imprisoned for up to four years.


The case is part of myriad legal woes facing the rapper, who has
separate outstanding cases in other parts of California.


He pleaded not guilty to possession of a deadly weapon in January
after an outlawed collapsible police baton was found in his
luggage as he attempted to catch a flight to San Francisco in
September last year.


He was also arrested in Los Angeles on November 28 for weapon and
drugs possession offenses.


Last month Broadus was arrested in Sweden for suspected drug use.
The rapper has had several brushes with the law since being tried
and acquitted for murder in 1993, the year he found fame with his
debut album "Doggystyle."

