

England captain Michael Vaughan saw his team labour to a four-
wicket win over Bangladesh on Wednesday and admitted there was
plenty of work to do if they are to make the World Cup semi-
finals.


Chasing just 144 to win the Super Eights match at the Kensington
Oval, England looked desperately out of form and at one stage
threatened to be undone by Bangladesh's spin attack who had
already stunned South Africa last week.


Sajid Mahmood (3-27) and Monty Panesar (3-25) saw Bangladesh
bundled out for just 143 but they then found batting tough
against qualty spin from Abdur Razzak (2-30) and Mohammad Rafique
(2-33) before wrapping up the victory after 44.5 overs.


From a well-set 70-2, Razzak started the mini-slide by dismissing
Vaughan (30) and Kevin Pietersen (10) in successive overs.


Andrew Flintoff (23) hit three boundaries during his brief stay
but Rafique accounted for the all-rounder and Ravi Bopara
(nought) in his sixth over to leave England reeling at 110-6 with
34 still needed for victory.


However, Paul Collingwood (23) and Paul Nixon (20) held their
nerve during their unbroken 37-run seventh wicket stand to ensure
victory.


"We bowled really well. Saj Mahmood was outstanding with the new
ball but Bangladesh are a good team. They beat South Africa and
beat India earlier in the tournament. They are a hard team to
beat," said Vaughan.


"We have got areas to improve on but we have had a good look at
the ground now going into the South Africa game and have more
knowledge of the wicket.


"Full credit to their bowlers but the important thing was we got
over the line and it sets up a big game against South Africa,
which looks like being a quarter-final."


England now have four points but still need to beat South Africa
here on Tuesday as well as West Indies on April 21 if they are to
have any hope of making the semi-finals after a lacklustre
campaign.


Defeat virtually ended Bangladesh's chances of reaching the last
four but captain Habibul Bashar said he was proud of his team who
were not expected to reach the second round.


"We didn't know how many to score here. We were maybe 60 or 70
short but I am happy with the way the boys fought back," he said.


"We lost too many early wickets. We still have two games left and
hopefully we can push them. I am happy with the way the team is
going but we need to be more consistent."


Mahmood was named man of the match for his three-wicket burst.


"I really enjoyed bowling on a quick wicket," said Mahmood. "It
was bouncier."

