

The West Indies' last two games in the World Cup are shaping up
as a valedictory to captain Brian Lara, who will retire from one-
day international cricket after the tournament.


Lara, who turns 38 on May 2, said: "My day in the sun is over.
It's tough playing one-day internationals out there."


The record-breaking batsman, who has played in 297 matches
scoring 10,354 runs with 19 centuries, will finish his one-day
career against England at the Kensington Oval on April 21, the
team's final Super Eights match.


West Indies can still make the semi-finals but need an unlikely
sequence of results to allow them into the last four via the back
door.


Lara will continue to play in Test matches and after the 67-run
defeat against South Africa here on Tuesday, he looked ahead to
the tour of England next month.


"We've got to pick ourselves up. Cricket is going to go on," he
said.


Lara, in his third stint as West Indian captain and the subject
of much criticism for the team's lacklustre performances in the
World Cup, admitted the campaign had been a major personal
disappointment.


"It's a situation where you are playing your last few one-dayers
and you hope you can end up in a World Cup final or a semi-
final," he said.


It is his fifth World Cup but the West Indies have only once
reached the last four during his career when they were beaten by
Australia in Mohali in 1996.


Lara denied that contract negotiations, which were still going on
when the tournament started, had affected the West Indian
performance.


"We've got a players association and a West Indies cricket
board," he said.


"These matters are handled at that level by people who are astute
enough to understand the delicate situation. We are just the
players.


"Whatever the situation, when we go on the cricket field we try
our best. I know the disappointment of the cricket fans. I am sad
that we have disappointed the Caribbean and our supporters around
the world.


"We feel it a lot and we know the man in the street is definitely
disappointed. When we go to practice and (see) the people waving
on the side of the road, we understand what cricket means to
them."


The West Indies still have to play against Bangladesh on April 19
and England two days later. Both matches are at the Kensington
Oval.


"We've got to dig deep," said Lara.


"It's tough playing games where you're not really involved in the
tournament but you've got to put that aside and show some
character and pride."


South African captain Graeme Smith paid tribute to Lara.


"It's sad to see him go," said Smith.


"He's been an unbelievable performer for the West Indies. I hope
the team plays for him in his last two games. He's been a credit
to the game."


One of Lara's greatest supporters, Sir Garfield Sobers, insists
Lara is not the reason behind the team's recent troubles.


Sobers believes there are major problems with the infrastructure
of the sport in the Caribbean.


"As far as the West Indies team is concerned, Brian Lara as a
captain and all the comments that have been made sometimes people
don't look at the facts," said Sobers.


"The facts are that the West Indies in the last two and a half
years have had a tremendous amount of problems.


"One, the West Indies Board didn't have enough money to have
enough camps. Two, there were always problems with not being able
to field a strong West Indies team, there were strikes and there
were all kinds of problems.


"And to build a house, if you don't have a solid foundation and
you build a house, you are going to have problems later on. And I
think this is where the problems are stemming from.


"People don't seem to realise this and there are all kinds of
calls for this and calls for that, which I think is being over
done by lots of people."

