

Australia are poised to storm into the World Cup semi-finals
without being seriously challenged as they take on debutants
Ireland in their Super Eights match here on Friday.


The defending champions were not tested on their way to posting
six successive victories, including three in the group. They look
set to continue the trend, considering Ireland's limited
resources.


Australia and New Zealand are the only unbeaten sides in the
tournament with eight points from four matches and need just one
more win to assure themselves of a place in the semi-finals.


Ricky Ponting's Australians have been playing quality cricket for
more than a month.


They may be meeting a winless Ireland, but looked in no mood to
take the game lightly.


When asked whether Australia were expecting a warm-up game on
Friday, fast bowler Shaun Tait said: "No, it's not a warm-up
match. We have got to be at our top form. We take this game as
seriously as against any other side.


"We are in the Super Eights now. If we relax in any of these
games and then come up against a big side, we might get done
then. We just want to concentrate on what we are doing at the
moment."


Australia will meet New Zealand and Sri Lanka in their last two
matches.


"They (Sri Lanka and New Zealand) are the teams playing quality
cricket at the moment and we expect them to be a quality threat,"
said Tait, who was named man of the match in his team's previous
game against England.


Australia's batting has flourished in almost all the matches,
with openers Matthew Hayden and Adam Gilchrist providing solid
starts and skipper Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke building the
innings.


They have not felt the absence of injured paceman Brett Lee as
Tait has been performing consistently well along with veteran
Glenn McGrath and Nathan Bracken.


"I expected to have a good run at some time in the World Cup.
It's good to have success," said Tait, who has so far grabbed 11
wickets in six matches in the Caribbean.


"It has been fantastic coming into the Australian team and
playing with these guys. It has helped my game by learning from
them. It helps a lot observing them and working out with them and
bowling with them.


"I feel a lot more confident bowling now than a few months ago."


Ireland may be searching for their first victory in the Super
Eights, but have performed creditably against South Africa,
England and New Zealand in their last three games.


"We'll take all the positives from our previous games and be
competitive," said Ireland's Australian-born skipper Trent
Johnston.


"We have three opportunities left and we need to prove that we
are a very competitive team if conditions are on our side.


Ireland pulled off one of the biggest upsets in the tournament
when they beat former champions Pakistan in a group game in
Jamaica last month and also tied their match against Zimbabwe.


That they have earned their place in the second round was
underlined by their impressive displays against the big teams.


Ireland did manage to put pressure on South Africa, England and
New Zealand but lacked the experience and resources to make the
most of the opportunities.


They will clash with New Zealand and Bangladesh in their last two
matches.

