

India's second largest software maker Infosys Technologies is
this week expected to confirm analysts' fears that the country's
flagship industry is facing tougher times.


With wages rising 15 percent a year, an appreciating rupee that
cuts into export earnings, a looming slowdown in technology
spending by US companies and a higher tax burden, the 48-billion-
dollar industry is facing a concerted assault, analysts say.


Bangalore-based Infosys' forecasts for the year to next March 31
-- and the reasoning they are based on -- are set to be reported
Friday, reflecting the wider trend for the industry.


"We will look at the guidance Infosys provides as an indication
of the software demand environment, based on the IT budgets of
its clients and billing rates," said Harmendra Gandhi, vice
president of research at Mumbai-based Brics Securities.


"We will look at the dollar guidance, wage inflation and their
impact on margins," added Gandhi, who has already lowered his
earnings estimate for Infosys and other IT companies because of
the rising rupee.


"The expectation is that whatever Infosys does, the others can
only do less," he said.


Infosys, founded by software professional N.R. Narayana Murthy in
1981 with 10,000 rupees (225 dollars) of capital, will be the
first of India's big four software makers to report fourth-
quarter earnings and provide forecasts.


Analysts expect Infosys, once billed as India's Microsoft, to
still maintain profit growth in excess of 50 percent from a year
earlier, with CLSA Asia- Pacific forecasting earnings of 12.28
billion rupees (286.6 million dollars) for the quarter. But there
are fears the industry is losing its lustre.


"So far strong growth has been assured in techs but recent data
points to some softening," CLSA analysts warned in a research
note to clients.


Expectations from Infosys' forecasts for the next fiscal year
have been diminished by the rupee's appreciation and a tax levied
on stock options gifted to programmers by software makers, the
investment house said.


The rupee gained 1.8 percent against the dollar in the quarter
ended March 31, and a further one percent since then, denting the
dollar-denominated earnings of software exporters who derive 75
percent of revenue abroad.


The currency has risen 9 percent since July 2006.


Concern about its impact led investors to drive down the share
prices of software makers, and a lower sales and profit forecast
by Infosys could be the trigger for another wave of selling.


"Guidance, especially from Infosys, will decide the near-term
movement of IT stocks," Kotak Mahindra analysts Dipen Shah and
Saurabh Gurnurkar wrote in a report.


The company's forecasts will likely be conservative, leaving room
for expectations to be bettered in the year ahead, they said.


The earnings reports of bigger rival Tata Consultancy and the
third and fourth biggest, Wipro and Satyam Computer Services,
will follow later this month.


Indian software makers, who have leveraged an ample talent pool
and relatively low costs to win business abroad, have been
hearing warnings their competitive edge is being blunted by
rising wages.


Typically, wages account for half the spending by software
makers, who are giving bigger raises to keep employees from being
poached by rivals amid a shortage of skilled personnel.


"Wage inflation is linked to the war for talent," said Kaushal
Sampat, chief operating officer of Dun and Bradstreet, a US
financial information provider, in a recent interview. "There's a
huge talent gap in the industry."

