

Bangladesh's main opposition leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed has
postponed her return home after being charged with the murder of
four people during political unrest last year, a party official
said Thursday.


The delay followed a phone call late Wednesday from a senior
government adviser who told Hasina not to rush back from her
holiday in the United States, the general secretary of her Awami
League party, Abdul Jalil, told AFP.


"An adviser called me and our leader Sheikh Hasina last night. He
urged her to defer her date of return," Jalil said.


"He said they need time to look into the case and assured us that
her image and dignity would not be harmed."


Hasina had planned to cut her US vacation short and fly home on
Saturday to fight the charges.


"She was originally scheduled to come back on April 23. But I am
not sure whether she would come back on that day," Jalil said.


Hasina was charged Wednesday with the murders and is also facing
accusations of extortion, in a crackdown by the military-backed
government.


"We think it's a politically motivated case against our leader,"
Jalil said.


Hasina told the BBC from the United States that the charges were
"fake and false".


Police have given no details of the role Hasina is accused of
playing in the battering to death of four men last October.


Hasina last weekend attacked the government's decision to delay
elections for 18 months.


On Monday, she was accused of extortion of 30 million taka
(434,000 dollars) by the Bangladeshi chief of a Malaysian-owned
company. Police are still investigating the allegations and have
not brought formal charges against her.


At the same time, the government has severely curtailed the
freedom of former prime minister Khaleda Zia, putting her under
virtual house arrest after she warned the country might "plunge
into darkness."


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since elections slated
for January were cancelled following months of turmoil over
allegations of poll rigging.


The government, promising to root out corruption and carry out
sweeping political reforms before new polls, has banned all
political gatherings and arrested at least 50 top politicians.


Media have speculated the government is trying to force Hasina
and Zia into exile, but the administration has denied the claims.


At least 35 people were killed in unrest in the period from
October 28 to January 11 when the country's president, Iajuddin
Ahmed, imposed emergency rule.

