

Bangladesh's military-backed government has moved to sideline the
country's two chief political dynasties, spearheaded by women
whose fierce rivalry has been called the battle of the begums.


Sheikh Hasina Wajed, the main opposition leader, was charged in
the murder of four people who were beaten to death during
political violence that racked the nation's capital last October.


At the same time, the government severely curtailed the freedom
of former prime minister Khaleda Zia, putting her under virtual
house arrest.


Hasina told the BBC the charges were "fake and false" and pledged
to return from the United States, where she is on holiday, to
fight them.


There has been widespread media speculation that the government
is seeking to force both Hasina, 60, and Zia, 61, whose family
dynasties have ruled the country since independence in 1971, into
political exile.


"These actions mean the government is now getting rid of the
country's two dynasties. They will have to go and take a break
from politics," Ataur Rahman, a political science professor at
Dhaka University, said.


"I think with a little persuasion, it can easily send them
abroad."


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since elections slated
for January were cancelled after months of turmoil over
allegations of poll rigging.


Emergency rule has been popular among Bangladeshis, who appear to
be in no hurry to return to destructive political infighting.


Worn down after 16 years of often brutal politics between Zia's
Bangladesh Nationalist Party and Hasina's Awami League, people
say they are happy to give the temporary government time to clean
up politics before new polls.


The two women -- the word 'begum' is an honorific Muslim title --
have each held the premiership, are related to assassinated
former leaders of Bangladesh and are said to loathe each other.


In its sustained effort to root out corruption, the government is
carrying out sweeping political reforms before the elections and
has curbed freedom of speech and banned politics.


At least 50 top politicians have been arrested, including Zia's
son Tareque Rahman.


The murder case against Hasina followed a complaint by the Jamaat
Islami, the biggest Islamic party and part of Zia's four-party
government which handed over power last October to a caretaker
administration as part of preparations for the elections.


Police gave no details of the role Hasina -- who heads the Awami
League and a 19-party opposition alliance -- is accused of in the
October 28 deaths.


At least 35 people were killed in the unrest in the period from
then until January 11 when the president, Iajuddin Ahmed, imposed
emergency rule.


Zia's acting secretary, who asked not to be named, said Wednesday
that the "intelligence department" told guards at her house that
only four people could meet her from now on and that she was not
to venture outside.


The four are her two brothers, a personal physician and a former
member of parliament.


Shahidullah Chowdhury, who also teaches politics at Dhaka
University, said "inefficient and dishonest dynasty politics" was
at the heart of Bangladesh's troubles.


"The widespread perception among the people and the government is
that the two begums were the main stumbling blocks for our
democracy," Chowdhury said.


Before the murder charge was laid, Hasina's press secretary said
that she planned to cut short her US visit and return home on
April 14 to fight claims of extortion which police are
investigating.


The allegations came from the Bangladeshi chief of a Malaysian-
owned firm who accused her of the extortion of 30 million taka
(434,000 dollars).


Last weekend, Hasina attacked the government's decision to delay
elections for 18 months while on Tuesday, Zia warned that the
south Asian nation, which has known long periods of military
rule, was at the crossroads.

