

Unseeded Venus Williams posted a 6-2, 6-1 win over Vasilisa
Bardina in the second round of the 1.34 million dollar WTA
claycourt event Wednesday, one day after sister Serena went down
with an injury.


Looking to re-establish herself as a top player on the WTA Tour
after missing most of 2006 with a wrist injury, Williams took a
small step on her comeback trail Tuesday with a straight-sets
victory over 14th-seeded Austrian Samantha Stosur.


Williams cruised to the win hours before her third-seeded sister
suffered a groin injury and was forced to retire in the first set
of her second-round match with Chan Yung-jan.


The 2004 champion, Venus Williams needed just 49 minutes to
dispatch the 19 -year-old Bardina in the first meeting between
the players.


Despite committing seven double-faults, Williams converted five
break points to set up a third-round match with Chan.


"I definitely feel like my game is coming around. I'm playing
good tennis," Venus Williams said. "I think the only thing that
holds me back sometimes is my errors. Sometimes I make a few too
many errors, and that has been my issue the last two
tournaments."


The 64-player women's draw was depleted Tuesday with the early
departures of Serena Williams and top seed Nicole Vaidisova, who
fell to Michaella Krajicek in a three-set second-round upset.


The two upsets opened the door for second seed Jelena Jankovic of
Serbia, who coasted to a 6-1, 6-1 win over Russian Anastasia
Rodionova in a match which lasted just 42 minutes.


Jankovic recorded one ace and six break points to move on to a
third-round match with 16th-seeded Italian Mara Santangelo, who
rolled to a 6-2, 6-0 victory over unseeded American Ashley
Harkleroad.


Three seeded players were ousted Wednesday, including fifth seed
Shahar Peer of Israel, who was upset by China's Zheng Jie 6-2,
6-3.


Lourdes Dominguez Lino of Spain also advanced with a 6-3, 6-2
triumph over No. 13 Marion Bartoli of France.


Dinara Safina of Russia, the fourth seed here and the world's
12th-ranked player, advanced to the third round with a 6-3, 6-4
victory over Eleni Daniilidou of Greece.


Seventh seed Ana Ivanovic struggled to reach the third round,
holding on for a 6-0, 6-7 (5-7), 6-4 triumph over unseeded
Argentine Gisela Dulko.


The Serbian siren's next opponent will be ninth-seeded Russian
Vera Zvonareva, who posted a 6-1, 6-3 victory over American
Meilen Tu.


Tenth seed Tatiana Golovin of France also reached the third round
with a 6-0, 6-1 win over unseeded American Jill Craybas. Golovin,
who captured her first career title last week at Amelia Island,
will face China's Peng Shuai.


Peng rallied for a 1-6, 6-3, 6-3 victory over sixth seed Patty
Schnyder of Switzerland.  Schnyder won the first set in just 29
minutes but could not get much going in the final two sets.


"She took it, and she just played really well," Schnyder said.
"She didn't miss any more and she really deserved to win it."

