

The skyscrapers in Africa's financial heartland cast a long
shadow over Maria Zwane's home in Johannesburg's teeming
Alexandra township, where running water and proper sanitation
remain a luxury.


Few places illustrate the contrast between South Africa's rich
and poor more starkly than the "Dark City" of Alexandra which
nestles up against Sandton, home to the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange (JSE) and other financial houses.


Sixty-year-old Zwane has to live in a one-roomed shack with her
family of five as well as share four makeshift bucket toilets
with around 200 of her neighbours.


Despite pledges by government to eradicate the so-called bucket
system by the end of the year as part of a multi-million dollar
transformation project, Zwane does not expect life in Alex to
change for the better any time soon.


"We don't talk or complain about these toilets anymore ... No one
cares," said the pensioner.


"I've dreamed for so long of having a proper roof over my head
but a little bit of that dream dies every morning that I wake up
and see this corrugated iron around," she added, gesturing to her
four walls.


"It seems as my life is just one old book that never changes."


When the apartheid era was consigned to history in 1994, black
South Africans assumed it would herald a brighter chapter in
their living conditions.


During whites-only rule, inhabitants of Alex and other townships
such as Soweto yearned for proper housing, sanitation, better
health and clean environment but held out little hope of
government-funded improvements.


But when the African National Congress transformed itself from
liberation movement to government, townships which had been at
the forefront of the fight against apartheid had good reason to
expect an upturn in fortunes.


In his state of the nation address in 2001, President Thabo Mbeki
promised that 1.3 billion rand (180 million US dollars, 134
million euros) would be pumped into Alexandra over the coming
seven years.


Six years into the seven-year project, there are signs of
improvement.


The building of a new police station within the township has led
to a sharp drop in crime rates.


Schools have also been renovated while construction of a shopping
mall and business district is underway.


The abiding impression to visitors however is of the thousands of
tin shacks leaning against one another, dirty water running down
the streets and the bucket toilets.


"There has been no change in my life since I voted for the ANC in
1994," said long-time Alex resident Nomsa Soka.


"We heard about the money that was being given to the township to
build us houses, but we don't know what happened to it.


"I am still living in a shack with my kids and I'm still waiting
for the house that was promised to me."


Overcrowding in Alex, home to around 350,000 people packed into
an 800-hectare area (nearly 2,000 acres), is so acute that it is
often difficult to walk on pavements.


According to Bennitto Lekalakala, chairman of the Alexandra
Development Forum, it is unrealistic to expect a rapid
transformation in a place of such a size and with such deep-
rooted problems.


"Experience has shown that you cannot develop a place like
Alexandra, which has been occupied for over a century, in a
period of seven years with such little money. Major cities took
many years to develop," Lekalakala told AFP.


"Alex is too complex geographically and in any other aspects, and
it needed cooperation from national government down to the person
who walk the streets of the township everyday".


Lekalakala said a combination of factors, including resistance
from residents, was responsible for the delays in meeting
government targets.


The township is meant to become the proud host of the Nelson
Mandela museum on the site where the anti-apartheid icon and
country's first black president stayed as a law student in the
1940s when he first arrived in Johannesburg.


However the site has been abandoned since December 2004, the
target of vandals and thieves who have stolen much of the
building material.


The transformation project has barely scratched the surface when
it comes to housing with only 3,000 new homes having been built
so far. More than 50,000 shacks are still standing.


Ivor Jenkins, director at the Institute for Democracy in South
Africa thinktank, said a lack of political will and bad planning
was largely to blame for the lack of progress in the makeover of
Alexandra, which was the setting for last year's Oscar-winning
movie "Tsotsi."


"There is, or was, sufficient money but lack of monitoring and
political will in fixing Alex has been a problem," Jenkins told
AFP.


"There was bad planning, bad spending, bad coordination and
information dissemination.


"It will not happen if the government just comes from outside and
pushes the project to the people without sitting down with them
and knowing what they need.


"There is a light at the end, but only if the project is owned by
everyone involved in it."

