

As the deadline looms for North Korea to shut down its nuclear
reactor, Pyongyang is devoting its energy to preparing for
another event this weekend -- putting on the party of the season.


The North Korean capital is pulling out the stops for the Arirang
Festival, the mass choreographed spectacle bringing together
100,000 gymnasts, musicians and other entertainers in a tribute
to Korea's "national unity."


The mass games get underway on Saturday -- the date by which
North Korea is supposed to start shutting down its Yongbyon
reactor in the first key deadline of a breakthrough aid-for-
disarmament deal.


But while there is little talk on the streets here of the down-
to-the-wire negotiations, signs abound that a special date is
approaching.


"The 'Arirang' is a folk song that explains all the melancholy of
lovers who are divided. In that way it symbolises the feelings of
the divided Koreans," Deputy Culture Minister Song Sok-hwan said.


In a cash-starved nation that is regularly plunged into darkness,
central Kim Il-Sung square was fully lit up at midnight Wednesday
as scores of young people practised mass acrobatics.


This year's Festival is special as it marks the 95th birth
anniversary of the communist state's late founder Kim Il-Sung,
who died in 1994 but retains the title of eternal president.


The city of two million people has been warming up for weeks,
with participants mobilised in schools and neighbourhoods.


Most of Pyongyang's giant monuments, from its modern towers to
theatres with traditional roofs, are keeping their lights on well
into the night in preparation for the big day.


And everywhere are giant photos of flowers -- the "Kimjungilia,"
a pink begonia named after North Korea's leader Kim Jong-Il, and
the "Kimilsungia," a red orchid honouring his father.


"We put on fresh paint, we renovate for the Arirang. Everyone is
proud to participate," said Kim Myong Hwa, a participant.


In public places across the city, residents arrange themselves in
straight lines to practise their moves, with women in long
colourful gowns dancing with men.


Rows of high school students in white caps perfect their
performance just outside the giant May 1 Stadium replete with
gymnastic hoops and flowers.


Inside the stadium, speakers blare revolutionary songs as 18,000
children aged 13 to 15 hold up 18,000 boards to reproduce epic
scenes.


"This shows and promotes concentration and discipline among our
students," said Ra Yong-su, who heads the body in charge of the
mass games.


On the field, youngsters march and leap in a show of gymnastic
skill, some of the boys waving flags and banners.


Song, the deputy culture minister, said the performance brought
in elements from a century of history including the struggle and
suffering "under the yoke of the imperialists."


But he stressed the Arirang festival was not overtly political,
with no slogans against against the usual targets of North Korean
ire -- Japan, South Korea and the United States.


"This is an artistic show which brings together gymnastics, music
and design, not politics," Song said.


Although North Korea's mass games date back nearly to the
establishment of the state on May 1, 1946, it is the third
edition of the full-fledged Arirang Festival after 2002 and 2005.


Besides Kim Il-Sung's birth anniversary, April sees the 25th
anniversary of the international spring festival.


North Korea says participants are attending the spring festival
from around the world, ranging from visitors from the US state of
Georgia to a "famous Uzbek artiste."


Later this month, on April 25, North Korea will celebrate again
with a military parade to mark the 75th anniversary of the Korean
People's Army.


But for all the celebrations, the only promotional posters in the
city are the large billboards with revoutionary propaganda. On
one, a fist emerging from the Korean peninsula smashes a US
soldier with the words "Out to he who wounds our dignity."

