

A Malaysian court jailed 17 Chinese fishermen from southern
Hainan province for 18 months each for poaching hundreds of
protected turtles, officials said Thursday.


The poachers were caught by Malaysian marine police on March 28
in waters off the coast of eastern Sabah state with a catch of
274 protected Hawksbill and Green turtles, only 32 of which were
still alive.


Mohamad Yusoff Anthony, from Sabah's fisheries department, said
the Chinese fishermen on Wednesday received sentences of six
months for each of three offences of poaching the two turtle
species, and encroaching on Malaysian waters.


"Hopefully this punishment will be a lesson for the accused and
others," Mohamad Yusoff, who prosecuted the case in Sabah
Magistrate's Court, told AFP.


He said the captain of the Chinese-registered boat was fined
508,000 ringgit (147,182 dollars) and each of the crew 86,000
ringgit in lieu of jail terms, but they opted to serve
consecutive jail terms instead of paying.


The World Conservation Union lists the Hawksbill turtle as
critically endangered, while the Green turtle is also endangered.


"Of the 185 Green turtles and the 89 Hawksbill turtles, 32 are
still alive and we are going to release them very soon," said
Mohamad Yusoff.


"We will try to find a safe area where there are no fishermen."


The arrest of the 17 Chinese fishermen was the second swoop by
marine police last month. On March 26 they caught 19 Chinese
nationals, also from Hainan, with nearly 80 turtles, most of
which were also dead.


"They are from the same area, I think also from the same
syndicate," said Mohamad Yusoff of the two groups.


He said four of the 19 were sent back to China, but the remaining
fishermen would appear before the court on Friday.


Turtles are hunted in Malaysia for their meat and shell, but many
die after getting entangled in fishing nets in open seas.


China is a major importer of turtles from Asia for food and
medicinal purposes, and aggressive poaching in Southeast Asian
countries has seen sea turtle numbers falling.

