

Global crude prices were slightly higher in Asian trade Thursday
after a US report showed a sharp draw down in gasoline stocks,
dealers said.


At 2:50 pm (0650 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, was eight cents higher at 62.09
dollars a barrel from 62.01 dollars in late US trades Wednesday
after striking 62.56 dollars earlier.


The price for Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was up 11
cents at 67.95 dollars a barrel.


"I think now we have a bit of stability after the stockpile
numbers yesterday," said Steve Rowles, of CFC Seymour in Hong
Kong. "I think right now the market is taking a bit of a
breather."


In its weekly report, the United States Department of Energy
(DoE) said Wednesday that inventories of US gasoline, or petrol,
plunged by 5.5 million barrels to 199.7 million in the week to
April 6, much more than the 1.4 million barrels analysts had
expected.


"I guess the big story is the gasoline stockpiles," Rowles said,
noting that crude stockpiles did not change much over the week.


In the near-term, demand for gasoline should add some upward
pressure on the contract, he said.


"A surprisingly massive gasoline inventory draw is likely to push
up gasoline contract prices and prices at the pump," Jason
Schenker at Wachovia Securities, said during US trading hours.


Gasoline stockpiles are a crucial focus for the market ahead of
the so-called US driving season that starts next month and sees
many Americans hit the highways for their holidays.


American refineries are meanwhile unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States, according to industry experts.


Traders have also been tracking developments over Iran, which is
under increasing international diplomatic pressure after its
claim that it could enrich uranium on an "industrial scale".


Western powers accuse Tehran of seeking to acquire nuclear arms
while Tehran insists its programme is for power generation only.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest crude exporter and analysts
fear that further sanctions in the ongoing dispute could disrupt
oil exports.

