

The US Senate Wednesday adopted a bill to fund controversial
embryonic stem-cell research, braving a new battle with President
George W. Bush who has already vetoed such legislation.


The Senate voted 63-34 in favor of draft legislation to lift a
restriction on using federal funds for stem-cell research on
human embryos, but the tally was short of the two-third majority
that would be needed to reverse a veto.


The White House has already set the stage for a new Bush veto,
saying it was unthinkable that public tax dollars should be used
to destroy human embryos.


"That's a moral line the president said he would not cross," said
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino.


The House of Representatives passed a similar version of the bill
in January, but the 253-174 vote was also short of a two-third
majority.


Bush last year used his power of veto for the first time in his
presidency to slap down a similar text passed in Congress, when
it was controlled by his Republican party.


He argues that he is protecting human life which begins, he says,
at the moment of conception.


Researchers working under the federal restrictions may currently
only use cell lines which were made available prior to a ban
imposed in 2001 in the first year of Bush's presidency.


But scientists have campaigned hard to end the restrictions,
saying only 20 such lines now exist and the US risks falling
behind in vital research which may hold the key to medical
advances in treating degenerative diseases.


"These restrictions divert valuable time and effort in a way that
isn't occurring in Britain and Singapore," Brock Reeve, executive
director of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute, recently wrote in
The Washington Post.


"In short, the stem cell sector is at risk of experiencing a
failure to launch at the national level."


Wednesday's vote presages a new standoff between Bush and the now
Democratic- controlled Congress, with the two sides already at
loggerheads over a war funding bill.


A presidential veto already awaits bills, passed but not yet
reconciled by each house, conditioning emergency funding for the
war in Iraq on setting a schedule for the withdrawal of US
troops.


Though a less passionate issue, the stem-cell debate puts Bush at
odds with many leaders of his own party, but more in tune with
his conservative evangelical Christian political supporters.


"Support of embryonic stem cell research does not contradict a
pro-life stance," said Mormon conservative Senator Orrin Hatch.


"I have always been pro-life. And I believe a pro-life agenda
demands that we care for the living -- not just the unborn, but
we care for both."


Christian organizations however have loudly condemned what they
say is the exploitation of embryos.


"Millions in the faith community believe that destroying embryos,
through embryonic stem cell research, is the tragic taking of
innocent human life," said the head of the evangelical lobby
Patrick Mahoney.


"In light of this, it is extremely disturbing that the United
States Senate would seek passage of a bill that would force
Christians to pay for embryonic stem cell research with public
tax dollars.


"This shows utter contempt and disdain by the United States
Senate for people of faith."


The Senate also approved Wednesday by a large majority, 70-28, a
compromise text that the scientific community has deemed
unnecessary.


The text would encourage stem-cell research on "embryos that have
naturally lost the ability to develop into fetuses, such as those
that have died 'naturally' during fertility treatments."

