

A Canadian artist is giving new meaning to the "smokin' guitar"
by making the instruments out of discarded cigar boxes, and his
creations are selling like mad on the Internet.


And as irony would have it, the craft revives a century-old
tradition born out of poverty -- though modern-day maker Lenny
Piroth-Robert can command top dollars for his product.


"It takes between six and eight weeks to get one of my guitars,"
said a tousled Piroth-Robert, clad in a Ramones T-shirt and
wearing dark shades.


In an industrial area in northern Montreal, old Dobro and Gibson
guitars hang on the walls of his studio, and piles of cigar boxes
litter the floors.


Rather than make a guitar out of wood, he uses empty cigar boxes
to form the body of the guitar and then attaches a neck and
strings.


Plenty of artists have played these types of guitars over the
past 150 years. Among them, the legendary Jimi Hendrix, who made
his musical debut at the age of five, plunking strings on a
homemade cigar box guitar.


In the beginning, Piroth-Robert worked on his paintings by day
and transformed into a guitar-maker by night, purely as a hobby.


"When I started, I was doing five, six guitars per month and I
was selling them on eBay," said the 30-something as he plucked
one of his guitars, a warm, ample sound emerging from the
strings.


"Then, Playboy magazine did an article on my creations," known as
Daddy-Mojo guitars, he said.


The musical artisan soon learned that the magazine, known for its
photos of nude women and "playmate of the month," is also
apparently known for its articles.


"After Playboy published, I made 150 guitars all by myself. I was
working seven days a week."


He said he was "forced" to set up his own website and recruit a
friend to help satisfy the demand, 95 percent of which he said
came from the United States. The guitars, depending on the model,
sell between 175-375 dollars (130 to 280 euros).


Even Montreal's cigar sellers were hard-pressed to sell their
wares fast enough to allow him to grab the empty boxes and make
guitars out of them.


"The owner of a big cigar store in the United States was getting
his hair cut at a barbershop. He was flipping through Playboy,
and called me on his mobile phone to tell me he had 300 cigar
boxes in his warehouse and he didn't know what to do with them,"
Piroth-Robert recalled.


Now, US merchants and a manufacturer in the Dominican Republic
send him the boxes, which are typically made of cedar and
mahogany.


"Daddy-Mojo makes some great cigar box guitars," said Shane
Speal, curator of the National Museum of Cigar Box Guitars in the
United States, who believes these handmade creations have a
special place in North American history.


"The cigar box guitar has always been the instrument of poverty,"
he said.


"The oldest cigar box guitar that I have dates back to 1886.
These instruments have been built since approximately 1840 and
that's when cigar manufacturers started using smaller boxes,"
Speal said.


"Back then, people, if they could not afford to buy a guitar, or
anything, they would start to build it themselves. So you started
to see cigar box guitars, cigar box violins, cigar box banjos."


But many advances have come along since these ramshackle
instruments of yore.


"I pushed the idea further," said Piroth-Robert, who makes models
with anywhere from three to six strings, according to his
clients' desires.


He also incorporated a soundboard -- a circular piece of metal
molded into the guitar -- and a hookup so that the guitar can be
electrically amplified.


"I have made a lot of instruments for bluesmen, amateurs and
pros. They tell me, 'I heard about your guitars but I didn't know
where I could find them'," he said.


"Now, they are rediscovering the past through my instrument."

