

Decades after ping pong diplomacy warmed tensions between China
and the United States, China's premier is trying a similar trick
in Japan -- with baseball.


Wen Jiabao is due to throw a pitch to a group of Japanese
university students on Friday, the final day of a three-day trip
to this baseball-crazy nation to help thaw the chilly ties
between Asia's two largest economies.


The gesture is also good news for US Major League Baseball, which
has been raring to tap into China, the world's most populous
nation.


"Premier Wen played baseball when he was a student," said a
spokesman for Ritsumeikan University, whose baseball team is to
mingle with the Chinese leader at a stadium in the western city
of Kyoto.


"I understand the Chinese side has proposed the event as they
hope to raise awareness about baseball among the masses in
China," said the spokesman, Ryuichi Kawaguchi.


Wen will don a Ritsumeikan uniform with the number 35, signifying
the 35th anniversary of the normalisation of Sino-Japanese
relations, and throw a "commemorative pitch" from the mound
against a batter, Kawaguchi said.


The pitch has already made headlines in Japan.


"It will be a performance aimed at winning the hearts of
baseball-loving Japanese," the country's best-selling Yomiuri
Shimbun said, quoting a Chinese academic in Beijing.


"I hope that the two countries will have frank dialogue and
exchanges as if they are throwing fastballs at each other beyond
love and hate," wrote a columnist in the leading Nikkei business
daily.


Wen, 64, widely popular at home with his approachable personality
which won him the label of "people's premier," already told
Japanese correspondents in Beijing last week about the baseball
event.


"I liked sports when I was young, and I once played basketball
and baseball," he said, when asked about his hobbies. Wen also
said he feels happy playing table tennis with his grandchildren.


Sports have emerged onto the centre stage of diplomacy in other
instances.


In 1971, the US team which took part in the world table tennis
championships in Japan were invited to play goodwill matches in
China, paving the way for rapprochement between the superpowers.


The so-called "ping pong diplomacy" led to a historic visit to
Beijing by then US president Richard Nixon in 1972.


International sporting events have also reflected antipathy
between political rivals.


In the summer of 2004, Chinese supporters burned red-sun Japanese
flags and smashed the car of a senior Japanese diplomat in
Beijing after China lost to Japan in the football Asian Cup final
there.


In Japan, the riot was widely seen as evidence that China had
whipped up public opinion to focus on Japan's wartime atrocities.


Baseball has developed fast in China since the national baseball
league was created in 2002.


China is hoping to avoid humiliation at the 2008 Beijing Olympics
at the hands of Japan or Taiwan.


Wen hails from Tianjin, home to the Lions who won last year's
pennant of the six-team China Baseball League.


The American pastime was introduced to China some 100 years ago
by missionaries and students, not long after the sport first came
to other parts of Asia.


But while baseball has become the top sport in Japan, South Korea
and Taiwan, its popularity hit rock bottom in China during the
1966-1976 Cultural Revolution.


US Major League Baseball and the New York Yankees, the sport's
richest team, signed a deal this year to develop players, coaches
and stadiums in China, whose national squad is piloted by former
Dodgers coach Jim Lefebvre.

