

Rafa Benitez has started the psychological war ahead of
Liverpool's Champions League grudge match against Chelsea by
claiming Jose Mourinho is only friends with managers he does not
fear.


Benitez's side set up a semi-final meeting of the increasingly
bitter rivals by completing a 4-0 aggregate win over PSV
Eindhoven in the last eight.


Liverpool had done the hard work in the Netherlands a week ago
and Peter Crouch's second half goal, moments after PSV's Dirk
Marcellis was sent off, clinched a low-key 1-0 victory in
Wednesday's second leg at Anfield.


But Benitez has already turned his attention to Chelsea manager
Mourinho, who stands between him and a second Champions League
final in three seasons. The feud between two bosses who are
anything but close friends will hardly have been helped by
Benitez's surprisingly personal comments about Mourinho.


The Portuguese coach has riled Benitez on several occasions as
their teams have fought it out in the games's grandest occasions.


Mourinho took first blood when Chelsea won 3-2 in the 2005 League
Cup final, but Benitez exacted revenge a few months later as Luis
Garcia's controversial goal enabled the Reds to eliminate Chelsea
from the Champions League at the semi- final stage.


Garcia's goal at Anfield still rankles with Mourinho, who claims
the ball never crossed the line. Liverpool followed that success
by dumping Chelsea out of the FA Cup semi-finals last season and
Benitez believes those results are at the root of the animosity.


"We were good friends until we start beating them. Then that
changed his mind," Benitez said of his Chelsea counterpart. "But
it is the same with all the managers of the top sides.


"He has very good relationships with the managers of teams that
normally he beats. When he starts fighting with managers of top
sides it is normal."


Liverpool have the advantage of playing the return at Anfield on
May 1 after the first leg in London on April 25.


But familiarity has bred contempt between these contrasting
managers and Benitez was happy to put pressure on Mourinho by
insisting Chelsea's huge transfer investment means they must win
several trophies or else the campaign will be a failure.


"We know Chelsea are a good team. In the last five years they
have spent big money on a lot of players and they have a very
good squad," Benitez said.


"If you want to be in the finals you must have a very good squad
and they have a very good squad. I think that is the reason they
must be there and compete for every competition.


"We know Chelsea and they know us, but you must always have
confidence as a manager and a Liverpool team should always be
confident.


"We know it is a difficult team to play against. The only thing
is we will play the second leg at Anfield and if you can do
something at Stamford Bridge then maybe you have an advantage.


"But you saw against Valencia they are very dangerous playing
counter-attacking football. I think it will be difficult for both
of us."


Liverpool were in cruise control for long periods against a PSV
side who showed little belief that they could turn the tie
around.


Italian referee Roberto Rosetti ended their slender hopes after
64 minutes when he showed Marcellis a red card for a lunge at
Boudewijn Zenden that was rash but hardly a serious danger.


Liverpool went for the kill straight away and got their reward in
the 68th minute.


Crouch looked to have wasted the chance when he failed to connect
cleanly with John Arne Riise's left-wing cross. But Robbie Fowler
turned the ball back into the six yard box for Crouch to shoot
past Gomes for his fifth goal in four games.


Liverpool, Chelsea and United have all made it through and it is
only the third time a single country has had three clubs in the
last four.


Benitez is convinced the Premiership is now the best league in
Europe and PSV manager Ronald Koeman agrees.


"It's a great success for English football," Koeman said
"Chelsea, Manchester United and Liverpool have demonstrated in
the last few years that they are very strong.


"They have the money but also the good players and the good
coaches. Not just in the English style but also the international
style. There will be at least one English team in the final and
that will be great for them."

