

Bangladesh's main opposition leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed has
postponed her return home after being charged with the murder of
four people during political violence last year, a party official
has said.


Hasina, now vacationing in the United States, was charged Tuesday
with the murders and has also been accused of extortion.


The head of the Awami League party denied all allegations late
Wednesday and said she would cut short her family holiday and
return to Bangladesh to fight the charges.


But the general secretary of her party, Abdul Jalil, said Hasina
had postponed plans to fly back on Saturday after talking to the
government.


"She delayed the comeback after a top-ranking government official
contacted me and Sheikh Hasina by telephone and requested her not
to change her tour schedule," Jalil told a press conference late
Wednesday.


"They assured us that they would take steps to ensure that her
honour and image would not be harmed," Jalil said.


"That's why our leader has postponed her return to the country
for the time being. Her date of return has not been fixed yet."


Hasina told the BBC from the United States that the charges were
"fake and false" and vowed to return home to clear her name.


Police have given no details of the role Hasina is accused of
playing in the four deaths last October.


At the same time, the government has severely curtailed the
freedom of former prime minister Khaleda Zia, putting her under
virtual house arrest.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since elections slated
for January were cancelled following months of turmoil over
allegations of poll rigging.


The government, promising to root out corruption and carry out
sweeping political reforms before elections, has banned politics
and arrested at least 50 top politicians.


Media have speculated the government is trying to force Hasina
and Zia into exile, but the administration has denied the claims.


At least 35 people were killed in unrest in the period from
October 28 to January 11 when the country's president, Iajuddin
Ahmed, imposed emergency rule.

