

BBC correspondent Alan Johnston marks one month in captivity in
the Gaza Strip on Thursday, the longest a kidnapped foreigner has
been kept in the lawless territory where abductions have become
common currency.


Johnston, a Scotsman who has been the BBC's main correspondent in
Gaza for three years, was forced from his car at gunpoint as he
drove home from work on March 12 in Gaza City.


But despite diplomatic efforts by Britain, numerous protests in
the Palestinian territories and regular appeals for his release
from Palestinian officials, the whereabouts of the 44-year-old
seasoned reporter remain unknown.


"We feel angry and ashamed of the continuing of this kidnapping
which we consider as a criminal act," Palestinian information
minister Mustafa Barghuti told AFP.


"We are determined to start implementing our plan... (to) put an
end to the lawlessness which led to the kidnapping of Alan
Johnston," he said.


"The Palestinian government is cooperating ... with the security
apparatus to secure his fast and secure release. We are also
cooperating with the British government and we are calling for
his immediate freedom," he said.


The Palestinian journalists' union has accused the government of
not doing enough to secure the release of Johnston, who became
the latest in a string of abducted journalists and foreign aid
workers in Gaza.


The British government, the Arab League, European Union, media
personalities and church leaders have all called on Johnston's
kidnappers to release him, to no avail.


On April 5, Britain's consul general in Jerusalem Richard
Makepeace met Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya of Hamas
-- despite an international boycott of the Islamist group -- to
discuss efforts to free Johnston.


The British consulate in Jerusalem downplayed the importance of
the meeting, the first between Haniya and an EU diplomat since a
Palestinian unity government, combining the rival Hamas and Fatah
factions, took power on March 17.


Johnston, whose posting in Gaza was due to end in April, was one
of the few Western reporters to be permanently based in the
unruly territory and had previously reported for the BBC from
Afghanistan and Uzbekistan.


His was the latest in a spate of kidnappings that has seen around
20 foreigners seized over the past year.


Foreign hostages are normally used as bargaining chips to gain
concessions from the Palestinian Authority, and so far all have
been released unharmed.


Previously, the longest period of captivity spent in the Gaza
Strip by foreign hostages was two weeks last August by two
journalists for the US-based Fox News television network.

