

India's Olympic chiefs said Thursday they were confident of
securing the 2014 Asian Games despite a dissenting note from the
country's sports minister.


The Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) will meet in Kuwait on Tuesday
to choose a winner between New Delhi, the Indian capital, and the
South Korean city of Incheon as the host city of the continental
Games.


Indian Sports Minister Mani Shankar Aiyer was quoted by local
media as saying that hosting major sporting events -- like the
2010 Commonwealth Games which have been allotted to New Delhi --
held no relevance to the common man.


"Whether you organise the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi or in
Melbourne, the state of people living in colonies right opposite
the Games site will remain the same," the Press Trust of India
(PTI) quoted Aiyer as telling a business seminar in the Indian
capital.


Aiyer, a former diplomat and ex-foreign ministry spokesman, said
organising expensive sporting meets was nothing more than an
attempt to improve the global image of the country.


"The government does not have enough money for social development
programmes but has sanctioned a billion dollars for the
Commonwealth Games just to improve India's image
internationally," Aiyar was quoted as saying.


Indian Olympic Association (IOA) officials distanced themselves
from Aiyar's remarks, saying they were confident that New Delhi's
bid to host the Asian Games in 2014 would be accepted.


"It is time the Asian Games return to India," IOA president
Suresh Kalmadi told reporters before heading for the OCA meetings
starting in Kuwait on Sunday.


"Hosting the Commonwealth Games in 2010 will give us the
necessary infrastructure and experience to organise the Asian
Games."


Olympic medallists Rajyavardhan Rathore (shooting) and Leander
Paes (tennis) will join a large Indian delegation travelling to
Kuwait, including Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit and
business leaders.


It is not clear if Aiyar will be part of the delegation, but
Kalmadi stressed the bid had the support of the Indian
government.


"The government is backing our bid fully and Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh has shown personal interest in the matter," the
IOA chief said.


IOA delegations have toured Asian countries in recent days to
canvass support for New Delhi, which hosted the Asiad twice
before, in 1951 and 1982.


Officials said that South Korea had organised the Asiad as
recently as 2002 in Busan, and it was time for another nation to
get the Games.


"India is one of the founders of the Games, but has not had the
honour of staging them since 1982," an official said. "Thirty-two
years is a long gap."


South Korean officials have argued that India needed to look
beyond New Delhi when it came to staging major sporting events.


The Indian government, which has also approved a bid for the
Olympics in 2016, recently began work on New Delhi's
infrastructure for the Commonwealth Games.


The city administration is building new flyovers to ease traffic
congestion, renovating the airport, constructing new stadia and a
Games village that will be converted into a residential complex
after the event.


The last Asian Games were held in Qatar's capital, Doha, in
December and the next Games will take place in Guangzhou, China,
in 2010.

