

Hong Kong's main political party called Thursday on the
government to seek UN protection for the city's famous harbour,
which is under threat from reclamation and development.


Protection of the harbour has become a key concern of
conservationists in Hong Kong who view Victoria Harbour not only
as a lucrative tourist asset but an essential part of the
maritime city's cultural heritage.


However, near-continuous reclamation over the past century has
reduced the waterway to half its original size.


The Democratic Alliance for the Progress and Betterment of Hong
Kong (DAB) urged the Beijing-backed government of the southern
Chinese territory to seek World Heritage status.


In a policy paper the pro-government party, which dominates the
territory's legislature, called on Hong Kong to follow the lead
of neighbouring Macau and seek listing from the United Nations.


More than 20 sites of historical importance -- some dating back
to the 16th century -- in the centre of the Macau, also a largely
autonomous territory of southern China, were included on the list
in 2005.


Listing obliges countries to protect sites from developers and
plunderers, and makes them eligible to receive United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
grants.


Widespread public anger greeted the government's most recent
reclamation of 23 hectares (57 acres) of land from the shore of
the island's Central business and shopping district to build a
road bypass to ease congestion.


The works were agreed despite the government passing a law a year
earlier that was designed to prevent further reclamation.


Until now, conservation activists have been drawn largely from
opposition ranks and the save-the-harbour campaign has been
labelled anti-government as a result.


"That the DAB has proposed this shows that the harbour's proper
management is not anti-government or anti-development," said Paul
Zimmerman, who heads Designing Harbour District, a planning group
campaigning for better use of the waterway.


The DAB paper said Hong Kong could benefit from China's survey of
sites it would consider proposing for listing with UNESCO later
in the year.


Zimmerman agreed, saying other key Hong Kong heritage and sites
of cultural significance, such as the space-age downtown HSBC
building and Cantonese opera and tea houses, could also get a
chance of protection.


"The point is, this sort of survey has never been done in Hong
Kong," he said.


"The DAB proposal is excellent because it could get everybody --
the community and the government -- focused on what is worth
preserving," he added.

