

Sri Lanka is using tough anti-terror laws to suppress democratic
dissent and journalists who expose human rights abuses, the New
York-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) charged Thursday.


New measures introduced in December were being deployed against
those who question the government's handling of the separatist
war with the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), the
group said in a statement.


It said the Sri Lankan Standard Newspapers, which published a
leading Sinhalese- language weekly and an English-language
weekly, stopped operations after the government froze their
assets, citing suspected links to the LTTE.


An accountant of the company was arrested under the tough
Prevention of Terrorism Act which allows detention up to a year
without formal charges being brought.


"The government is using anti-terrorism legislation to silence
the press," said HRW Asia research director Sam Zarifi said. "As
the war heats up, the government is clamping down on criticism
and dissent."


Tamil-language media have often come under pressure from the
Sinhalese-dominated government, but it is the first time in three
decades that Sri Lankan authorities shut down a Sinhalese
language paper.


The newspaper had been accused of siding with the Tamil rebels.


"The newspaper's journalists had questioned the government's role
in the spiralling number of abductions and enforced
disappearances as fighting between the government and LTTE
escalated," HRW said.


"The government's moves against Mawbima are a disturbing blow to
press freedom in Sri Lanka," Zarifi said. "Increasingly, critics
of government policy are being treated as traitors and enemies of
the state."


The pressure against the Sinhalese-language Mawbima and the
Sunday Standard newspapers illustrates the deteriorating
conditions for media freedom in Sri Lanka, the HRW said.


It noted all sides in Sri Lanka's separatist conflict have
interfered with and sought to restrict free speech and press
freedom.


"In the areas under its control, the LTTE does not allow a free
press. In other areas it has intimidated, attacked and sometimes
killed journalists critical of their policies or actions," the
rights group said.


Sri Lankan authorities prevent journalists from travelling to
Tamil rebel-held areas of the island's north although there is no
formal censorship imposed.


More than 60,000 people have been killed in the island's drawn
out Tamil separatist conflict in the past 35 years.

