

North Korea's Yongbyon reactor -- the focus of international
efforts to shut down its nuclear programme -- was ostensibly
built to generate electricity but is not connected to any power
lines.


Instead, experts say, it has produced enough plutonium for maybe
a dozen nuclear weapons over its 20-year history.


Under the first stage of a February pact, the communist state
should by April 14 have shut down and sealed the reactor and a
reprocessing plant in the presence of UN inspectors.


That timeframe has slipped amid a row over frozen North Korean
bank accounts, but negotiators are still pressing Pyongyang to
start the process before Saturday.


The reactor, 96 kilometres (60 miles) north of Pyongyang, has a
capacity of five megawatts and began operating in 1987.


It is too small to make much difference to the nation's acute
power shortage and a US Congressional Research Service (CRS)
report in January said there were reportedly no power lines
attached.


Nevertheless, the North demanded a high price in compensation for
lost energy when it shut down Yongbyon under an October 1994 deal
with the United States.


An international consortium started work on two proliferation-
resistant light water reactors and the US provided an interim
500,000 tonnes a year of heavy fuel oil.


The "Agreed Framework" deal collapsed in 2002 when the US accused
the North of running a covert highly enriched uranium programme.
But its supporters say it succeeded in halting plutonium
production at Yongbyon for eight years.


When the reactor is operational, the CRS report said, is can
produce about six kilograms (13 pounds) of plutonium annually,
enough for one small bomb.


US intelligence officials believe the North removed fuel rods for
reprocessing into plutonium during a 70-day shutdown in 1989.


During a shutdown in May 1994, about 8,000 fuel rods were
removed, enough for four to six nuclear weapons. The North said
it removed a further 8,000 rods during another closure which
began in April 2005.


US chief nuclear negotiator Christopher Hill said Thursday the
best estimates were that Yongbyon has produced 50-60 kilograms
(110-132 pounds) of plutonium in all, enough for six to 12 bombs.


One aim of the latest agreement was "to prevent that 50-60 kg
problem from becoming a 100 kg problem," he said.

