

Global financial leaders head into a weekend of high-powered
talks here basking in what the IMF says will be the world
economy's longest sustained expansion since the early 1970s.


But while the International Monetary Fund is positively gushing
about global prospects, the spring meetings of the IMF and the
World Bank will not be without controversy -- especially for bank
chief Paul Wolfowitz.


The former deputy US defense secretary is accused of favoritism
over startling pay hikes given to his Libyan-born girlfriend when
she was on the World Bank's payroll, just as he vies to clean up
corruption in its lending.


Prior to the weekend meetings, finance ministers from the wealthy
Group of Seven nations will debate currency rates and controls on
the trillion-dollar hedge fund industry at their latest talks in
Washington on Friday.


The G7 ministers will survey a global economic picture that,
according to a twice-yearly IMF survey released Wednesday, has
rarely looked as good.


In its World Economic Outlook report, the Fund projected that
growth in global gross domestic product (GDP) would reach 4.9
percent both this year and next.


While down from 5.4 percent in 2006, that would take the current
expansion into its fifth and sixth years, the world economy's
best performance since before the 1970s oil shocks.


That would come despite a housing-led slowdown in the United
States, which was forecast to register its slowest growth rate in
five years at 2.2 percent in 2007.


If the IMF forecasts are proven correct -- and Fund officials on
Wednesday admitted that their figures are only sometimes "spot
on" -- then the eurozone and Japan would both overtake US growth
for the first time in many years.


Both economies were seen expanding by 2.3 percent this year,
while red-hot growth in China, India and other big developing
powers was seen as moderating, but only a little.


Unlike in the 1970s, according to IMF chief economist Simon
Johnson, growth is far more widespread as China and India extend
dramatic transformations while Europe and Japan finally perk up.


"Everyone around the world is sharing in this prosperity. I
hesitate to say that that is unprecedented, but it is very
impressive," he told a news conference.


"While the US indeed may have sneezed, it appears to be a mild
sneeze so far, and not likely to spread."


IMF managing-director Rodrigo Rato was likely to expand on the
report's findings at a news conference on Thursday, while also
addressing a drive by the six- decade-old Fund to overhaul its
operations.


Reforms designed to make the IMF more relevant in a fast-changing
economic landscape appear to be hitting a roadblock as richer
powers hold out against any dilution of their influence.


Under Wolfowitz, the IMF's sister institution also faces
questions about its relevance. On one longstanding criticism, the
World Bank is trying to force change by going after graft in its
multimillion dollar loans.


But the Wolfowitz campaign has had to be watered down in the face
of virulent criticism, and some countries have queried whether an
architect of the war in Iraq is best positioned to promote "good
governance."


The US official now faces embarrassing questions over his
girlfriend, Shaha Riza, who through rapid promotions went on to
earn nearly 200,000 dollars during an external assignment from
the World Bank to the US State Department.


Wolfowitz was due to hold his own press conference Thursday
before Rato's. At a hastily arranged briefing Wednesday, he
deflected a barrage of questions about the Riza affair by arguing
it was the subject of an investigation.


"You have to ask, I have to answer," he parried, turning
exasperated at a grilling from reporters.

