

Global warming is turning up the political heat in Australia, the
only country in the world to have joined the United States in
refusing to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.


With scientists warning that prized coastal homes are threatened
by rising sea levels and rich farmlands are drying up, Prime
Minister John Howard has undergone an election-year conversion
from sceptic to activist.


Just six months after refusing to meet visiting former US vice-
president Al Gore, now a campaigner against global warming,
Howard has put climate change high on the agenda for a summit
with state premiers Friday.


"I think we should have an intelligent discussion about climate
change because there are roles and responsibilities for both
levels of government," Howard said.


Among the proposals to be considered is a 300 million dollar (240
million US) project to map the impact of global warming on what
is already the world's driest continent, local media reported.


The digital map would help pinpoint communities that face being
washed away by rising sea levels and predict where rivers will
run, possibly pointing to a radical shift of major agriculture
from the drying south to the wetter north.


The summit comes hard on the heels of the release in Brussels
last week of a major report by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC), which highlighted the threats to
Australia.


The scientists predicted loss of high-value coastal land by 2050
due to rising sea levels and storms, increased droughts and major
damage to World Heritage ecosystems such as the Great Barrier
Reef.


One of the scientists who provided expert advice to the IPCC said
the famous reef off Australia's east coast, treasured as the
world's largest living organism, could be dead in 20 years.


Warmer, more acidic seas were killing the coral, said Professor
Ove Hoegh- Guldberg of the Australian Research Council.


A conference in Sydney this week brought global warming threats
even closer to home, with business risk analyst Karl Mallon
warning that coastal residents would suffer the impact even
before sea levels rise.


Mallon said the value of a home would plunge by up to 80 percent
if it was assessed as uninsurable because of the dangers posed by
severe weather events caused by climate change.


An Australian author of the UN report, Nick Harvey, said people
wanting to live by the sea may have to pay a levy to fund costly
coastal protection measures.


Despite softening his stance on climate change as opinion polls
show widespread public concern about the issue, Howard still
refuses to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.


He has criticised the agreement on the grounds that it did not
commit developing countries to the same greenhouse gas
restrictions as those imposed on industrialised nations.


Australia is a major exporter of the fossil fuels such as coal
which emit the gases and is one of the worst polluters on a per
capita basis, but Howard's continued refusal to ratify Kyoto
puzzles some critics.


"I don't know that there is a logical reason," eminent scientist
Tim Flannery, who was named Australian of the Year for 2007, told
AFP


"I think everyone would agree he has a streak of stubbornness in
him but I can't believe he would be so stubborn as to put that
before the interests of the country.


"I see the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol as being supremely
important, because what's happening at the moment is the Chinese
are citing our recalcitrance as an excuse for them not to do
anything."

