

Alan Pardew insists Charlton have no reason to panic despite
wasting the chance to pull clear of the Premiership relegation
zone in Monday's 0-0 draw with Fulham.


The south Londoners edged a point above the bottom three
following their second goalless encounter in four days but, with
matches running out, they would have appreciated more breathing
space.


Charlton's trip to Everton on Sunday now assumes enormous
significance but Pardew's faith in his in-form team - who are now
unbeaten in six matches - remains unshaken.


"I don't think we're favourites to stay up at this stage but I do
feel we have a great chance and if we can raise our intensity
between now and the end of the season, we can be unbeaten," he
said. "That's what we have to focus on, and not any points we
might have dropped here.


"If we were to draw one game, I would rather it was this one.
There were some positives: we kept a clean sheet, we subdued
Reading and we're still in there with another point on the board.
Given where we've come from, that's something to be pleased with.


"I didn't think there was anxiety in the side tonight but that
will come into play - not just for us, but also for Sheffield
United, West Ham, Fulham and Wigan. There are some huge games
coming up."


The major talking point of a drab match was the surprisingly
lenient treatment given to Charlton's Alexandre Song by the
referee Graham Poll. The Cameroonian midfielder was booked for an
early challenge on Reading's Steve Sidwell and then committed a
series of niggling challenges in the second before he was
withdrawn by Pardew.


Reading boss Steve Coppell was surprised at Song's escape, but
Pardew revealed his player had been deliberately spared by Poll,
the official who attracted controversy in last summer's World Cup
after he failed to send off a Croatian player despite showing him
two yellow cards.


"I went to see Graham at half-time and I said to him that I
needed a signal if Alex was getting close and he gave me that
signal," Pardew said. "It's full credit to the referee because
that's the sort of common sense football needs.


"If there was better communication between the managers and
referees, there would be less incidents and it would be better
for everyone. I don't think there's an issue about it: if he had
made a bad tackle, he would have been sent off but I don't need
him missing matches for a silly little foul."


Coppell refused to be drawn on Charlton's prospects of avoiding
the drop, although he did concede they had made huge strides
since a shambolic 2-0 defeat at the Madejski stadium in November.


"There's been a sea-change in their performances, organisation,
mobility, everything," he said. "That first game was during a
period of turmoil for the club but Alan has had the chance to
impose himself and he's a good manager, full stop. He's got them
organised, committed and he's made some positive changes."


Reading have now failed to win any of their last eight games,
although Coppell took umbrage when it was suggested his team had
faltered with the season's finishing line in sight.


"In the last eight games we have faced most of the top four and
had some very hard games," he said. "In those matches, we will
always be fortunate if we get anything.


"At the moment things aren't going our way but there will always
be hard matches for clubs of our size. There's a world of
difference between us and the big boys in this league."

