

Australian rugby league superstar Andrew "Joey" Johns announced
his immediate retirement from the game Tuesday due to a
potentially "catastrophic" neck injury.


The Newcastle Knights captain and Australian halfback, widely
regarded as one of league's greatest ever players, ended his
legendary career on the advice of a leading spinal specialist.


Johns, 32, underwent CAT scans on Tuesday morning after
aggravating a previous neck injury at training last Thursday in a
collision with Newcastle team-mates Daniel Abraham and Adam
Woolnough.


"I'm still in shock," Johns told a news conference. "It was
really tough telling my family.


"I made an emotional call to my brother Matthew and it was even
tougher talking to the players this afternoon."


The Newcastle team doctor Neil Halpin said Johns had no choice
but to quit the game after damage to a disc in his neck which put
him "at serious risk of a catastrophic spinal injury".


Johns has a history of neck injuries and was forced to miss the
last five matches of the 2003 season because of a bulging disk.


This season he was knocked unconscious by a high tackle from
Bulldogs forward Sonny Bill Williams in the fourth minute of
their first-round clash and missed the second round while
recovering from the concussion.


Johns said that despite the abrupt and distressing end to his
career, he realised "this could have happened when I was 19 years
old.


"I've achieved so much in the game. I'm not totally disappointed
because I've had some great memories and made some great
friendships."


Johns labelled his two premierships won with the Knights in 1997
and 2001 as the standout moments of his career, which began with
his NRL debut against Gold Coast at Seagulls Stadium in 1993.


He played 23 State of Origin games for New South Wales and
represented Australia in 21 Test matches, including the 1995
World Cup and the 2001 Kangaroo tour.


Johns ends his career as the greatest pointscorer in NRL history
with 2176 points from 249 first grade games with the Knights.


Johns said he promised himself he would not cry in front of the
media, but admitted to struggling with his emotions.


"It is really emotional just because I love playing so much and
I'm going to miss it so much."


He said he felt like he had "dodged a bullet" in his career by
not experiencing any more serious injuries, and had known in his
heart this season would be his last.


"I've given it a lot of thought in the last off-season ... I knew
the end would be coming soon," he said.


"I knew this year would be my last year, it's just unfortunate
it's stopped five months before the end of the season.


"The next big challenge is life after football but it's one I'm
looking forward to."


"I've had a fairytale career and I feel lucky to have played the
game."

