

Indonesia's small, plastic identity cards may seem innocuous
enough but campaigners who are trying to have the compulsory
religion category dropped say they are behind many sectarian
killings.


"People have been killed in sectarian conflicts because religion
is mentioned on the cards," said activist Maya Safira, who heads
a non-profit group that seeks to embrace Indonesians of different
backgrounds.


Safira's National Integration Movement wants religion removed
from the cards because Muslim-majority Indonesia has a history of
religious conflict.


"We are concerned about these divisions," she told AFP at her
group's headquarters in Jakarta, where religious symbols are
sprawled across the walls to indicate all are welcome at her
organisation.


A law passed in 2006 mandated the inclusion of religion on the
identity cards, despite objections that forcing people to display
their faith was a violation of basic human rights.


The archipelago nation of 17,000 islands also has a number of
minority religious beliefs that critics say the law simply fails
to capture.


This is because Indonesia officially recognises only six major
faiths -- Islam, Catholicism, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism
and Confucianism.


For followers of other faiths, such as animism or local
traditional beliefs, nothing is entered on the card because they
practice a religion the government does not officially recognise.


While most Indonesians live peacefully together despite religious
differences, many do not. That those differences can, and
sometimes do, lead to fatal conflict was underscored in March
when Islamic militants were jailed for up to 20 years for
beheading three Christian teenage schoolgirls in 2005.


That horrific attack, carried out by a gang using a machete, took
place in Sulawesi island's religiously divided district of Poso
and drew international condemnation, including from the Pope.


Such bloodletting makes people look very differently at the
religion stamped on their identity cards.


For Yudanegara, who uses one name, anything that marks religious
division brings back awful memories. His brother perished after
getting caught up in Muslim- Christian conflict in 1999 on Ambon
island in Indonesia's Maluku chain.


"About 50 to 60 people from my brother's office were burned to
death in a locked room," he told AFP. "My brother was a Hindu, he
had nothing to do with the two conflicting faiths there, but he
became a victim nonetheless."


Religious violence in the chain has killed more than 5,000 people
and displaced thousands more.


Violence is not the only problem for critics who say the cards
can also encourage discrimination in everyday life.


Permadi, a member of Indonesia's parliament who uses one name,
follows a traditional faith generically termed Aliran
Kepercayaan. The religion box on his identity card should have
been left blank, but officials filled it in for him -- with
Islam.


Even so, he says, authorities have refused to record his
daughter's marriage or to issue a certificate as legal evidence
of her union.


"They refused to record the marriage of my daughter simply
because her father adheres to an indigenous belief," he said. "I
am living proof of the discrimination against believers in
minority faiths."


Suma Mihardja of LBH Rakyat, a legal aid group, said people who
practiced a religion other that the six official faiths were
generally unable to obtain vital documents such as marriage,
birth, death and residency certificates.


LBH Rakyat, rights activists and other campaigners have urged the
government to remove religion from the cards.


Dawam Raharjo, a moderate Muslim who belongs to Muhammadiyah, a
large Islamic organisation, said the nation would benefit from
such a move. "It would reduce religious discrimination and
violence throughout the country," he said.


Some also charge that requiring people to list their faith is an
unwarranted invasion of privacy.


Abdurrahman Wahid, a leader of Nahdlatul Ulama, Indonesia's
largest Muslim group, said identity cards were a state matter
while religion was personal. The government, he said, should not
interfere in such personal matters.


"Islam does not prohibit the removal of religion from identity
cards," he said. "This is an important issue because it could
stop more people dying in religious conflicts."


But there are many who defend the cards against their critics.


Indonesia's Minister of Religion, Muhammed Maftuh Basyuni, has
reportedly said that making it compulsory to list a religious
affiliation, rather than being divisive, could encourage harmony
between religious groups.


It could also help ensure a person was practicing his religion
properly, he said, since it made it harder for to lie about
contravening religious principles.


Other defenders of the cards say it is too simplistic to blame
the cards for religious discrimination or bloody violence.


Din Syamsuddin, the chairman of Muhammadiyah, said the causes of
religious conflict included social injustice and economic
inequality rather than identity cards.


He said only secular countries omitted religion from identity
documents, adding: "We do not need to follow what they do."

