

Technical problems held up vote counting across much of East
Timor on Tuesday but the troubled nation's first presidential
election since independence was praised as a success.


Voters cast their ballots Monday with hopes of a new era for the
tiny nation, choosing a replacement for the charismatic guerrilla
leader Xanana Gusmao, who has held the office since full
independence in 2002.


Despite fears of violence, allegations by rival politicians of
voter intimidation and some last-minute scrambles for ballot
papers, the vote was orderly and fair and turnout was high,
observers said.


"At one place we were at, people were lined up  -- literally 400
people in a line, breast to back -- like sardines in the hot sun
for three hours to vote, and there was no tension there at all,"
said Australian MP David Tollner.


Tollner, head of a group of Australian election observers, said
he was "extremely impressed" with the overall conduct of the vote
and downplayed concerns about delays in tallying the results.


"On one hand people complain it's taking too long, but on the
other hand there should be no doubt about the results when they
come through," he said.


Current Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, who shared the Nobel
Peace Prize in 1996 for his efforts to find a peaceful solution
to the conflict that rocked the country, is among the favourites
for the largely ceremonial job.


The election commission said counting was delayed due to
"technical support like computers, printers and generators"
everywhere except in the capital Dili, where Ramos-Horta had 30
percent of an almost complete provisional count.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, a former political prisoner in
Indonesia and the chairman of the opposition Democratic Party,
was on 25 percent in Dili, the commission said.


The ruling Fretilin party's candidate, Francisco "Lu-Olo"
Guterres, and Fransisco Xavier do Amaral, the chairman of the
Timorese Social Democrat Association party, were behind Lasama.


If no candidate gets more than 50 percent nationwide, a run-off
will be held.


But for a country that saw years of bloodshed under Indonesian
rule after 1974, and an orgy of killing as it voted for
independence in a UN-sponsored referendum in 1999, the peaceful
vote was already seen as a success.


"Voting in the presidential election proceeded without major
incidents of violence or intimidation, which is already a very
good result for Timor-Leste," said Atul Khare, the head of the UN
mission in East Timor, referring to country by its formal name.


The vote followed a turbulent year in East Timor. Foreign
peacekeepers arrived in May to quell violence that left at least
37 people dead and forced over 150,000 people to flee their
homes.


The violence erupted after then prime minister Mari Alkatiri
dismissed hundreds of army deserters. Firefights subsequently
broke out between factions of the military, and between the army
and police, and degenerated into gang violence.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said he hoped calm would prevail
as the votes were tallied.


"The Secretary General is heartened that the election was
conducted in a general atmosphere of order and calm, and that the
initial indications show high voter turnout," his office said in
a statement.


Eight candidates stood to replace Gusmao, who won a pre-
independence vote. Monday's contest has been seen as a three-way
race between Ramos-Horta, Lu-Olo and Lasama.


Officials were forced to scramble 5,000 extra ballot papers to
remote locations following the high turnout. More than half the
population of about one million was registered to vote.

