

Arsene Wenger knows better than most the importance of Champions
League football to Arsenal and the prospect of missing out next
season must send shivers down the spine of the French coach.


In the wake of an uninspiring draw at mid-table Newcastle it was
only natural that the Gunners' manager was already focusing on a
potentially decisive fixture against Bolton Wanderers at the
Emirates Stadium next weekend.


Fourth hosts fifth and the winners will have every right to feel
confident of entering Champions League qualification in August.


Arsenal remain two points clear of Wanderers, after Sam
Allardyce's men could only manage a 1-1 draw with Everton at the
Reebok Stadium on Monday, and Wenger believes that advantage will
be enough come the end of a disappointing campaign for the north
London club.


"It's very important for the players, the supporters and everyone
at the club that we finish fourth this season," he said. "We're
used to being there and we want to be there again. That's only
natural but I know how much it means.


"We're looking ahead to the Bolton game and it's up to us to
score the goals we need to win that game. I'm confident that we
will. I'm not worried about the lack of goals - the Newcastle
game was all about rebuilding our confidence after three
successive Premiership defeats.


"Bolton had an opportunity to draw level with us but they could
only manage a draw with Everton and that result keeps them at a
fair distance. It's up to us to maintain that advantage on
Saturday."


Europe, surprisingly, is still on the minds of a Newcastle team
which bowed out of this season's UEFA Cup last month and is now
seeking an immediate return to the competition via the Intertoto
Cup.


United's point against Arsenal saw the Magpies move into 10th
position and it is widely accepted that a top seven finish will
guarantee entry into the feeder tournament for the 2007-08 UEFA
Cup.


"A draw against Arsenal was a fair result and we're happy with a
point," said Newcastle's Peru midfielder Nolberto Solano.


The former Boca Juniors full back blocked a brace of Gilberto
Silva shots on the goal-line six minutes from time to guarantee
United a share of the spoils.


And the experienced South American added: "We believe in
ourselves again and we have gained a little bit of confidence
over the Easter period.


"Now we're only looking forward to the Intertoto Cup. That's our
target."


A game of few chances at a sun-baked St James' Park was notable
for the first half withdrawal of Newcastle goalkeeper Shay Given
and a contentious United penalty claim in the closing stages.


Republic of Ireland number one Given looks likely to miss his
team's trip to Portsmouth next weekend but boss Glenn Roeder was
keener to reflect on what he felt was referee Howard Webb's
incompetence.


The Yorkshire official failed to spot Abou Diaby's tug on Oguchi
Onyewu's shirt in the final minutes of an otherwise uneventful
clash and Roeder said: "Mr Webb is a good referee. But on this
occasion he fell short."

