

French luxury goods group PPR has agreed to buy a 27.1-percent
stake in German sportswear specialist Puma and launch a full
takeover offer, the two companies announced on Tuesday, in a bid
which valued the German company at around 5.7 billion euros (7.6
billion dollars).


Pinault-Printemps-Redoute (PPR), which owns a range of top-end
fashion brands including Yves Saint Laurent and Gucci, said in a
statement that it had agreed to buy a 27.1-percent stake from
Mayfair Beteiligungsfondsgesellschaft, the holding company of the
Herz family, for 330 euros per share.


"Following this acquisition, PPR intends to launch a friendly
takeover in cash on the remaining outstanding Puma shares at the
price of 330 euros per share," the statement said.


With a total 17.234 million shares in issue, the offer valued
Puma, the world's number three sportswear maker after Nike and
Adidas, at 5.7 billion euros.


PPR put the total offer price at 5.3 billion euros.


Puma "fully supports this friendly transaction and intends to
recommend the offer after reviewing the offer document," PPR
insisted.


In its own statement, Puma welcomed the offer, which it said gave
it the support of "a financially strong and leading international
company".


Puma said it would also "benefit from PPR's global positioning,
strong portfolio of premium brands and expertise in the retail
business."


The Puma management board "is convinced that PPR, as one of the
world's top fashion and retail companies, will be the perfect
partner for us," it said.


"Both companies have a European background and ideally complement
each other with regard to their global perspective. With the
support of PPR, we plan to strengthen our position as the leading
company in the sport lifestyle market with a continued focus on
long-term sustainable growth."


Puma said PPR's offer was "in the best interests of the company
and that the announced offer price per share of 330 euros is
fair."


"Based on a preliminary fairness opinion issued by Lehman
Brothers and subject to review of the offer document, the board
of management will recommend the offer to shareholders," it said.


PPR said that no job cuts were planned as part of the takeover.


"In the context of the planned transaction there will be no
changes with regard to staffing," said PPR chief executive
Francois-Henri Pinault.

