

Police in Vietnam said Tuesday they had raided and broken up an
illegal match- making business where eight South Korean bachelors
were choosing potential brides from among 118 local young women.


Police in the raid Monday detained the Vietnamese couple who were
organising the business from a house in Ho Chi Minh City and sent
the women back to their home towns, mostly in the poor Mekong
Delta region.


"They thought their lives would change for the better if they
married a foreigner," a police officer told AFP, adding that the
women had also been handed into the care of provincial women's
unions.


International marriages are legal in communist Vietnam, but the
match-making rings -- where the women are typically paraded
before men, sometimes holding signs with numbers, for selection
-- are not, and the phenomenon has stirred anger here.


Police said they would fine the operators, Sen Cam Diu, 44, and
his 37-year-old wife Huynh Thi Thu Thuy, who were running the
business from a Tan Binh district house, said the state-
controlled Thanh Nien newspaper.


The couple had arranged about 40 marriages over more than four
years and charged three million dong (187 dollars) for each
successful match.


Vietnam has become a popular destination for bachelors from South
Korea, Taiwan and elsewhere searching for a spouse, often on
week-long marriage tours that include medical checkups, visa
procedures and speedy honeymoons.


The marriage market has been fuelled by a traditional preference
for sons in parts of Asia, a trend exacerbated by sex-screening
technology for pregnant women, with has left proportionally more
bachelors fighting over fewer women.


In South Korea, thousands of agencies now offer marriage tours to
China, Vietnam and other Asian countries, often subsidised by
rural authorities battling declining populations.


According to the South Korean National Statistical Office, the
number of Vietnamese brides in South Korea totalled 10,131 in
2006, up 74 percent from the previous year, with most married to
farmers and fishermen.


The phenomenon has triggered resentment in Vietnam amid reports
that some of the women have suffered isolation and abuse in their
new homes.


A year ago Vietnam summoned South Korea's press attache amid
angry protests from women's groups after a newspaper in Seoul
printed a photo of a line-up of Vietnamese would-be brides
kneeling before a Korean suitor.

