

AC Milan are facing something of an attacking dilemma as they
look for a victory in their Champions League quarter-final second
leg clash at Bayern Munich on Wednesday.


Milan were held to a 2-2 home draw in the first leg and unless
they manage a high-scoring draw, a victory will be needed at the
Allianz Arena if the 2003 champions are to make it to the semi-
finals, against either Manchester United or Roma.


But Milan have attacking problems with Ronaldo cup-tied due to
his earlier involvement with Real Madrid, Antonio Gilardino
suspended and Brazilian Ricardo Oliveira out of form.


That leaves only veteran Italy forward Filippo Inzaghi as the man
coach Carlo Ancelotti will be relying on to fire his side past
the German champions.


But Inzaghi, suffering from a thigh problem, is far from fully
fit and certainly not assured to take to the field on Wednesday.


"Inzaghi will do everything possible to play. His qualities and
experience could prove decisive in Munich," said Ancelotti of the
33-year-old.


Whether or not Inzaghi is fit to play, a lot of responsibility
will rest on the shoulders of 24-year-old Brazilian playmaker
Kaka.


The attacking midfielder is having his best season yet and is the
club's top goalscorer.


It was his goal early in extra-time that saw Milan past Celtic in
the previous round and Kaka also notched a penalty at the San
Siro in the first leg against Bayern.


"He is irreplacable and as long as he doesn't show signs of
tiredness, he will play all the time," said Ancelotti.


Kaka is confident his team-mates will do enough to win in Munich,
despite twice losing leads in the first leg as Bayern hit back
with two goals from an unlikely source, Belgian centre-back
Daniel Van Buyten.


"I believe we can win in Munich. I feel that this could become a
historic night for us," said the Brazilian.


He has good reason to feel confident, despite his side conceding
home field advantage and knowing a draw - unless it is 2-2 or
higher - will not be enough to prolong their European adventure
this season.


Milan may be languishing in fifth in their domestic league but
they were docked eight points before the season began and would
otherwise be only goal difference off third place.


As for Munich, their league form has been patchy all season and
they sit fourth in the German table with a battle on their hands
to make the top three and qualify for next season's Champions
League.


They also laboured to a 2-1 win at lowly Hanover on Saturday.


"We'll have to play 50 percent better than that against Milan,"
coach Ottmar Hitzfeld reflected afterwards.


Hitzfeld has great experience in this competition, guiding
Borussia Dortmund to the title in 1997 and then leading Bayern -
in his first stint at the helm - to the crown in 2001.


Bayern have not even reached the semi-finals since then and
confidence is in short supply throughout the club.


Even general manager Uli Hoeness is not willing to look too far
ahead of Wednesday's game.


"We can approach Milan in confident mood. We have a 50:50 chance.
That's a realistic estimate," he said in somewhat contradictory
fashion.


For the home side to say it is feeling "confident" but rating
it's chances as only 50:50 of earning the draw that will probably
suffice to take them into the last four is not what would be
expected of one of European football's giants.

