

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy on Tuesday
brushed off remarks from far-right rival Jean-Marie Le Pen who
said Sarkozy's immigrant roots should be a factor for voters who
head to the polls in less than two weeks.


The leader of the far-right National Front at the weekend
described Sarkozy as "a candidate who hails from immigration" and
asserted: "I am a candidate from this land."


"Jean-Marie Le Pen said there was a difference between him and
me. He's right. We are different, very different, I would add,"
said Sarkozy in a television interview.


Born in France to a Hungarian father and French mother of Greek
Jewish origin, Sarkozy has often talked about being the target of
taunts because of his foreign-sounding name during his childhood
in the chic Paris suburb of Neuilly.


Asked whether his zero-immigration policy would have prevented
the Sarkozy family from emigrating to France, Le Pen replied:
"France could have done without Nicolas Sarkozy who would have
perhaps had a very nice career in Hungary."


"It's true that there is a difference, a choice that could be
considered fundamental by a certain number of Frenchmen," said Le
Pen.


Sarkozy, 52, the candidate of the governing party, said he was
unfazed by Le Pen's "habit of making provocative statements".


"I am not shocked.  I am a candidate for the presidency.  I know
it's hard, it's tough. If I weren't able to withstand all that
and remain calm, it would then be better for me to do something
else," said Sarkozy.


Sarkozy is leading in the polls for the first round of voting on
April 22 but Le Pen is among the top four contenders who could
theoretically win enough votes to stand in the second round
scheduled for May 6.


The 78-year-old far-right candidate is confident that he will be
one of the two contenders who will move on to the runoff,
repeating the electoral upset of the 2002 vote that shocked the
nation.


In that election, Le Pen beat Socialist Lionel Jospin and went on
to confront Jacques Chirac in the runoff after a plethora of
leftwing candidates caused a splintering of the vote.


An Ipsos/Dell poll published Tuesday showed Sarkozy was holding
steady with 30.5 percent of votes in the first round, followed by
Socialist Segolene Royal with 23 percent.


The centrist Francois Bayrou was in third place with 19.5 percent
of the votes and Le Pen scored fourth, garnering 13 percent.


In a runoff, Sarkozy would beat Royal with 54 percent of votes
compared to 46 percent for the Socialist contender, according to
the Ipsos/Dell survey.

