

Bangladesh hope their spin king trio can bamboozle England, just
like they did South Africa, and boost their bid for a World Cup
semi-final place on Wednesday.


The left-arm trio of seasoned Mohammad Rafique, effective Abdur
Razzak and emerging Saqibul Hasan spun Graeme Smith's side to a
humiliating 67-run defeat in Guyana on Saturday - their first
ever win over South Africa.


The win was only Bangladesh's fifth over a major Test playing
country in 155 matches and they now seek their first over England
in eight matches.


"If we beat England we get closer to the semi-finals but for that
we have to work really hard," said Bangladesh captain Habibul
Bashar ahead of the match against struggling England at the new-
look Kensington Oval.


"Definitely we need to play consistent as well. We don't want to
play one good game and then play three bad games. But the South
Africa win has increased the confidence and morale in the team."


Bangladesh, who upset India by five wickets in the group stage to
earn a second round place for the first time since their World
Cup debut in 1999, have two points from four matches.


Bangladesh's win over South Africa, which also dethroned Smith's
side as world number one, not only increased their chances, but
also threw open the race for semi-finals.


"It was a historic win over South Africa and now we need to win
three more matches to come into contention for a semi-final. The
boys know it's hard work but they are ready for it," said Bashar,
who hoped his spinners come good once again.


"If we can get the same kind of wicket as we had in Guyana our
spinners can repeat that, but England also have some pretty good
players who score runs against spinners."


Michael Vaughan's team are in a tight corner after Sunday's
seven-wicket defeat against Australia left them with two points
from four games, and another loss will mean the exit door for
them.


Their only win in the Super Eights came against Ireland.


The world's top batsman Kevin Pietersen struck a magnificent
century but Australia put the brakes on the innings as from 164-3
in the 30th over, England managed just 83 runs in the last 20
overs to be bowled out for 247.


Australia reached the target with half-centuries from skipper
Ricky Ponting and Michael Clarke.


"I think we are very close to being a really good one-day team,"
insisted Vaughan.


"We've lost games against Sri Lanka and Australia and we've put
them under a lot of pressure.


"We are just not winning critical periods and doing enough during
the whole game to win the match. That's disappointing and we'll
need to play well against Bangladesh, South Africa and the West
Indies and win those games, but we're certainly a team that can
do that.


"We know we have to win the next three games now, so it's
sometimes a good thing to know exactly what you have to do to
reach the next stage."


For Vaughan, his own form, and that of all-rounder Andrew
Flintoff, is a major worry.


Vaughan has managed 112 runs in the last 12 innings, including 12
in the last four World Cup matches. Flintoff has 49 runs in four
outings to the middle to add to his ten wickets.

