

A nationwide security alert was issued across Thailand after a
bomb exploded outside a Bangkok shopping centre that was also hit
in a wave of New Year's Eve attacks, officials said Tuesday.


The device blew up at a telephone booth in front of the Major
Cineplex Ratchayothin shopping centre on the northern outskirts
of the city late Monday.


No one was injured.


"There is a row of three phone booths and the bomb exploded in
one of them. The glass was shattered, but there were no
casualties," Bangkok city police spokesman Colonel Supisan
Pakdinarunart said.


The shopping centre was among nine places in Bangkok bombed on
New Year's Eve, when three people were killed and dozens injured
in blasts around the capital.


Those attacks were followed by a coordinated arson and bombing
spree across the insurgency-hit southern provinces at the start
of the Lunar New Year in February.


The incidents left nine dead and 44 injured and were blamed on
Islamic separatists.


Interior Minister Aree Wongariya declined to speculate about who
might be behind the latest blast, but said he had ordered all of
Thailand's provinces to boost security for the upcoming Buddhist
New Year holiday.


"We have to provide security everywhere. I have ordered all
provincial governors to be on alert, and have dispatched our
informants to find out about any more possible attacks," he said.


The army has for months warned of possible attacks during the
Buddhist New Year celebrations, which begin Friday and run for
five days.


But Thailand's top security official, Prakit Prachonpachanuk, who
heads the National Security Council, quickly dismissed
speculation that the blast was connected to Muslim separatists.


"This has nothing to do with the unrest in the south. It's just a
minor disturbance. We have to wait for the police investigation
to find the real motive of the bomber, but I can reassure you
that it's not connected with the south," he told reporters.


Prakit refused to rule out the possibility that the blast was
linked to the New Year's Eve attacks in Bangkok, and urged
residents in the capital to be more vigilant during the holiday.


He said Monday's blast would not likely prompt the government to
declare a state of emergency in Bangkok.


"We have to be prudent about declaring a state of emergency, and
consider whether it's appropriate in response to the situation,"
he said.


Thailand's junta leader Sonthi Boonyaratglin had urged the
government to declare an emergency in Bangkok to crack down on
small protests against the military regime.


So far, the government has refused.

