

Peter Fulton hit a solid 83 as New Zealand boosted their chances
of qualifying for the World Cup semi-finals with an emphatic
129-run win over Ireland in a Super Eights match here on Monday.


The opener's sixth half-century and a rollicking 71-run stand for
the eighth wicket between Brendon McCullum and James Franklin
helped New Zealand reach a challenging 263-8.


Left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori bagged four wickets as New
Zealand dismissed debutants Ireland for 134 to post their sixth
successive win in the tournament, including three in the first
round.


Defending champions Australia and New Zealand are the only
unbeaten sides with eight points from four matches. They are
followed by Sri Lanka (6/4), South Africa (4/4), England (2/4),
the West Indies (2/4) and Bangladesh (2/4).


Ireland never looked like threatening New Zealand's total despite
an entertaining 75-run stand for the fourth wicket between Kevin
O'Brien (49) and brother Niall O'Brien (30). Kevin smashed three
huge sixes in his 45-ball knock.


Fast bowler Shane Bond rocked Ireland with two quick wickets in
his lively opening spell, removing William Porterfield and Jeremy
Bray to eventually finish with 2-18 off five overs.


Vettori and off-spinner Jeetan Patel (2-32) kept non-stop
pressure on Ireland, who lost their last seven wickets for 24
runs.


Earlier, Fulton's responsible knock and a late flurry of
boundaries from wicket- keeper McCullum (47) and Franklin (34 not
out) put paid to Ireland's hopes of restricting New Zealand to a
modest total.


It was New Zealand's depth in batting that thwarted Ireland who
reduced the opposition to 189-7 in the 43rd over before losing
their way in the closing stages, with 45 coming in the last three
overs.


McCullum's 37-ball knock contained a six in the last over that
smashed a window- pane in one of the boxes, while Franklin hit
one six and three fours in his 22-ball innings.


Seamer Dave Langford-Smith (2-41), and off-spinners Kyle McCallan
(2-35) and Andrew White (2-45) had bowled with discipline to
raise Ireland's hopes of containing New Zealand despite Fulton's
half-century.


The New Zealand opener regained form with a well-paced innings
just when his team-mates had been struggling for runs against
Ireland's disciplined seam-spin comination.


Fulton, a middle-order batsman opening the innings in the World
Cup, had made only 62 in his last three matches before playing a
valuable innings.


New Zealand were not allowed to build a partnersip as skipper
Stephen Fleming (10), Hamish Marshall (16), Scott Styris (10),
Craig McMillan (22) and all- rounder Oram (20) all got starts,
but none could play a long knock.


New-ball bowler Boyd Rankin provived the breakthrough in the
sixth over when he dismissed Fleming, who was caught cutting at
point by Porterfield.


Langford-Smith then struck twice in the space six overs to put
New Zealand on the back foot, removing Marshall and Styris.


New Zealand found runs hard to come by when Irish skipper Trent
Johnston introduced his spinners into the attack, as McCallan and
White kept a tidy line and length on a slow track.


McCallan was rewarded for his discipline when he got rid of
McMillan and well- set Fulton, who was adjudged leg-before.

