

As Washington steps up trade sanctions against China, a group of
US experts called Tuesday for greater integration of the Asian
giant into the global economy, including membership in the G8
club of wealthy nations.


Such a move "offers the best hope of shaping China's interests
and conduct in accordance with international norms on security,
trade and finance, and human rights," the 30 independent experts
said in a report.


The "positive strategy" of integration would also encourage
"collaboration to confront the challenges both countries face,"
said the experts commissioned by the Council on Foreign
Relations, a Washington-based think tank.


"The United States should approach China with an affirmative
agenda from a position of confidence," said the panel of US
experts, led by former commander of US forces in the Pacific
Admiral Dennis Blair and former US Trade Representative Carla
Hills.


The report came a day after the United States announced that it
would haul China to the World Trade Organization (WTO) over
copyright infringements and market access barriers amid pressure
from the Democratic-controlled Congress.


The WTO action followed an unprecedented decision late last month
to slap penalty tariffs on China to offset government subsidies
and another WTO complaint in February over industrial subsidies.


They sparked fears of a possible trade war between the two
powers.


The experts agreed that "China has failed to adequately protect
American intellectual property" and that Beijing should allow
market forces to dictate the direction of its currency, which
many American groups claim is undervalued.


But the experts warned that current attempts to pressure China
into raising the value of its currency by threatening tariffs
"are misguided, and could backfire."


They said that while improving China's adherence to its WTO
obligations would help drive the reform process inside the
country, other steps were needed to put the bilateral economic
relationship on a sound footing.


They include getting the United States to put "its own economic
house in order," such as by reducing its twin budget and current
account deficits and by not throwing up barriers to Chinese or
other foreign investment.


"The United States cannot credibly argue for open investment
policies abroad if it imposes or threatens to impose additional
hurdles for foreign acquisitions of US companies that raise no
security threat," it said.


Washington's blocking of a bid by China National Offshore Oil
Corporation (CNOOC) to buy US energy giant Unocal in 2005 was
cited as an example.


Among their string of recommendations by the experts was for the
United States and China to develop a "road map" for integrating
China into the Group of Eight industrialized nations, which
include Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia
and the United States.


China could perhaps initially join as an observer and dialogue
partner before gaining full membership, they said, adding that
the group would "strengthen legitimacy" by bringing in the
world's fourth-largest economy.


On China's military build-up, a key concern in Washington, the
experts said "the best way" to ensure that US security interests
were not compromised "is to sustain America's space, air, and
naval superiority and maintain and enhance its alliances in East
Asia."


Noting US preoccupation in stabilizing Iraq, the experts
expressed concern that China was "not receiving the attention it
deserves."


It went on to list key challenges facing the United States today:
"combating terrorism, limiting the proliferation and spread of
weapons of mass destruction, reining in North Korea's nuclear
ambitions, ensuring energy security... protecting the global
environment."


All of those questions "will be more effectively managed with
China's cooperation than without," the panel said.

