

South Korea's top university said Tuesday it has asked outside
experts to verify research by a team which announced it had
created the world's first cloned wolves.


The team -- led by Lee Byung-Chun and Shin Nam-Shik, veterinary
professors at Seoul National University (SNU) -- announced on
March 26 it had cloned two female wolves named Snuwolf and
Snuwolffy in October 2005.


Lee was also a leading member of the team led by now-disgraced
scientist Hwang Woo-Suk which produced the world's first cloned
dog in early 2005.


The research on cloning the wolves has been called into question
after it was found that the team gave incorrect details in a
table analysing the mitochondrial DNA sequence of the wolves and
their surrogate mother dogs.


The SNU has since then secured blood and cell samples from three
wolves -- the one that provided eggs and the two clones -- as
well as from one of the two dogs which also provided eggs for the
research.


"We have delivered the samples to a trustworthy agency for
analysis," said Kuk Young, head of the research department.


"I assure you the investigation will be thorough as the school's
honour is at stake. The reason that we requested an outside
agency to do the job is aimed to secure objectivity and
credibility," he told journalists.


The SNU said on Monday that a three-member panel has launched a
preliminary probe into the research work.


Aside from the faulty table, Lee's research paper on the wolf
cloning was found to contain a simple mistake in calculating the
success rate of his attempts to clone dogs.


This error understated the past success rate and made the
apparent technical progress the team had made since then more
impressive.


Lee said both "mistakes" were inadvertent and he had asked the
journal in question, Cloning and Stem Cells, to correct the
figure and table.


SNU was hard hit by the scandal over Hwang, who was hailed as a
national hero until the university's inquiry ruled that some of
his work on cloning embryonic human stem cells was fake.


He is now on trial for fraud, embezzlement, ethical breaches and
other charges but has insisted he can still prove he created the
first cloned human stem cells.


The work of his team in creating the world's first cloned dog,
named Snuppy (Seoul National University puppy), has been verified
by SNU and other authorities.

