

Mexican cement giant Cemex SA confirmed it has signed a deal to
buy Australian building materials firm Rinker Group in a deal
valued at 15.3 billion dollars.


"The value of the total transaction, including Rinker's debt, is
about 15.3 billion dollars," Cemex said in a statement late
Monday.


In Australia Rinker said it had agreed to the bid, revised upward
22 percent from Cemex's first offer.


Rinker put the deal's value at 14.2 billion dollars, not
including its debt.


The takeover offers Rinker shareholders 15.85 dollars per share,
2.85 dollars above the initial offer of 13 dollars, which was
rejected earlier as opportunistic and significantly undervaluing
the company.


The final offer is 45 percent higher than the closing price of
Rinker on October 27, when the original bid was made.


The new combined firm will be one of the world's largest and most
profitable construction materials companies, with 23.2 billion
dollars in annual revenue and more that 67,000 employees in more
than 50 countries.


"This is a good transaction for the stakeholders of both
companies," said Lorenzo Zambrano, Cemex chief executive and
chairman of the board.


"The combination of Cemex and Rinker will create value for
shareholders as well as customers, particularly in key growth
regions of the United States," Zambrano said in the statement.


Rinker chairman John Morschel said the main aim of the deal was
to maximize value for shareholders, noting that the impact of the
downturn in the US housing market over the current financial year
is difficult to predict.


"In light of the above, and following evaluation of the available
alternatives, including relevant regulatory, timing and other
execution risks, directors concluded that in the absence of a
superior proposal, the higher Cemex cash offer represents the
best risk-adjusted return for shareholders," he said.


Cemex, which wants to acquire Rinker to expand its presence in
the United States where the Australian company earns more than 80
percent of its income, said it has also agreed to waive all
conditions to the bid, except the 90 percent minimum acceptance
condition.


The Mexican group said that if the required level of acceptances
was not reached, the offer would lapse.


Any Rinker shareholders who have already accepted the initial
Cemex offer will be eligible for the increased offer, which is
scheduled to close at 7:00 pm (0900 GMT) on May 18.


Last week, the US Department of Justice gave a conditional
approval to the takeover on anti-trust issues.

