

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao arrived in South Korea Tuesday for a
visit expected to focus on trade as well as ways to resolve the
impasse over North Korea's nuclear programme.


Wen, who goes on to Japan Wednesday, will attend the opening
ceremony for Korea- China Friendship Year marking the 15th
anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations.


The event was a milestone for South Korea but a major setback for
China's ally North Korea.


China has since become South Korea's largest trading partner,
with total trade value reaching 130 billion dollars last year
according to Chinese figures. Wen said last week he expects ties
to deepen further.


"China and South Korea should come up with a win-win FTA (free
trade agreement) proposal at an early date so as to pave the way
for the FTA," he said.


"As a result of economic globalisation, China-South Korea trade
ties have entered a new era, requiring us to expand cooperation,
improve quality and cope with challenges together," Wen said last
Thursday, three days after the United States and South Korea
concluded an FTA.


The two sides will also push for progress in six-nation talks on
scrapping North Korea's nuclear weapons, which are stalled by a
banking dispute.


Around the time that Wen arrived, US negotiator Christopher Hill
said in Tokyo that it would be "difficult to meet the precise
deadline" this week for North Korea to shut down a nuclear site
as part of a disarmament deal.


China since 2003 has hosted the talks also grouping the two
Koreas, the United States, Russia and Japan. In a February 13
deal the North agreed to give up its nuclear programmes in
exchange for economic aid and diplomatic benefits.


But it refuses to take the first step, scheduled for completion
by April 14, until it receives 25 million dollars in funds which
were frozen in a Macau bank.


The North Korean accounts were frozen at US instigation in 2005
on suspicion they are linked to money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


The US said last week it had found a way to unblock the funds to
get the disarmament talks moving. But no progress has immediately
been reported in making the transfer.


Wen was scheduled later Tuesday to visit an SK Telecom test
centre and meet Prime Minister Han Duck-Soo and President Roh
Moo-Hyun.


He and Roh are expected to finalise an agreement to set up
military hotlines to handle unforeseen situations in the Yellow
Sea, Seoul military officials have said.


The two nations have no major bilateral disputes apart from a row
over history.


There was uproar in South Korea last year when the state-funded
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences published reports arguing that
Korea's ancient Balhae kingdom (699-926 AD) was a vassal state of
China.


Some South Korean media and academics say Beijing has hired
scholars to distort the history of the Korean kingdoms in case
territorial disputes flare up after North Korea collapses or
merges with the South.


At a meeting in Helsinki last year Roh expressed regret to Wen
over the historical research programme and warned of negative
repercussions on relations.


Wen is accompanied by Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing and Commerce
Minister Bo Xilai, among other officials. He will meet party
leaders in parliament Wednesday before starting his three-day
visit to Japan.

