

Asian tourists have begun turning away from Thailand, official
statistics show, prompting concern that holidaymakers might be
avoiding the kingdom because of its continuing political woes.


The number of tourists arriving from East Asia dropped by 7.3
percent in the first two months of the year, compared to the same
period in 2006, the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) said.


"Sensitive Asian tourists, from Japan for example, have been
scared away from Bangkok due to security concerns," said Pornthip
Samerton, managing director of travel agent Destination Asia.


The TAT numbers showed a general drop-off in February among
tourists from around the world, as overall arrivals fell six
percent from January. Arrivals were still slightly up from the
year before.


Pornthip said that many tourists may have reconsidered their
travel plans following the deadly New Year's Eve bomb blasts in
Bangkok that killed three and injured dozens.


Since then, several foreign embassies have upgraded their travel
warnings for Bangkok, citing the threat of more blasts.


Meanwhile, a separatist insurgency in southern Thailand has
sharply escalated, and the junta that took power in a coup last
September has threatened to invoke a state of emergency in
Bangkok over political protests.


"After the bombs, the political situation and the insurgency in
the south have added to tourists' concerns. Meanwhile, changing
regulations regarding foreign investments have had an impact on
business arrivals," said TAT spokesman Chattan Kunjara na
Ayudhya.


Foreign investment has dropped off since the Bangkok of Thailand
imposed tough currency controls in December, and the government
in January proposed tightening foreign business rules.


"Those factors led to a decline of arrivals, and those from Asia
fell short of our targets," he told AFP.


Tourism is a key money spinner for Thailand, generating about six
percent of gross domestic product.


Las Vegas-based tourism consultant Globalyis said that Thailand
could still expect to see an 8.0 percent increase in overall
arrivals this year to 14.9 million -- assuming there is no more
political turmoil.


"Any further incident in the country's capital or another popular
tourist destination could trigger panic and drive away many
tourists who may be concerned for their safety," the consultancy
said in a recent paper.


"Traditionally in the region, tourism revenues are directly
correlated with political stability," Globalyis warned.


"Reduced foreign investment could see Thailand lose out on
tourism development in the coming years in favor of its
competitive neighbours in the region," it added.


Southeast Asia has seen increasing competition for tourist
dollars, especially among Malaysia, Vietnam, Singapore and Hong
Kong.


Tourism groups have also warned that Thailand could see its
annual expected tourism earnings of 800 billion baht (22.85
billion dollars) slashed by 10 percent because of a proposal to
tighten rules on alcohol sales.


The new bill, which is awaiting approval from the military-
installed parliament, bans alcohol sales within 500 metres of
schools, temples and government offices.


That would prevent many bars and restaurants from selling
alcohol, which means tourists might spend less money or just pack
up for a neighbouring country, the Federation of Thai Tourism
Associations said.

