

North Korean defectors in South Korea formally launched a unified
political body Tuesday, vowing to overthrow the dictatorship in
their communist homeland.


"Let's overthrow the regime of (North Korea leader) Kim Jong-Il!"
a banner read during a ceremony attended by about 300 defectors,
conservative activists and politicians including former president
Kim Young-Sam.


The ceremony was led by Hwang Jang-Yop, the highest-ranking
defector ever to come South. Hwang, now a harsh critic of Kim
Jong-Il, was secretary of the ruling Workers' Party before
defecting in 1997 during a trip to Beijing.


The Committee for Democratisation of North Korea, led by Hwang,
is the first political grouping involving the defectors.


"The Kim Jong-Il regime is the world's most vicious group of
criminals who have let their people starve... to develop nuclear
weapons," Hwang said in a speech at a closely-guarded hall.


He has had a police guard since he defected.


At the ceremony the committee released what it said were
satellite photographs of Kim Jong-Il's 17 luxury villas in the
North.


Committee officials said the photos taken by foreign commercial
satellites had been verified by former members of Kim's security
service.


The committee says it unites 21 different organisations
representing the more than 10,000 defectors in the South.


In a statement Hwang urged them all to campaign to rescue North
Koreans "who are groaning under dictatorship and repression,
worse than Japan's past colonial rule."


"South Koreans are seeing their tax money return to themselves in
the form of nuclear weapons and missiles. But nobody has raised
questions," he said, in a criticism of the Seoul's government's
aid to the North.


The North test-fired missiles last July and conducted a nuclear
test last October. But Seoul plans to resume food aid after the
North's pledge to scrap its nuclear weapons.


Hwang and other defectors demanded South Korea take bold steps to
help North Korean refugees in China.


The number hiding in China and awaiting an opportunity to come to
Seoul via a third country is estimated to number between tens of
thousands and hundreds of thousands.


Hwang's group estimates the number of North Korean refugees, in
China or elsewhere, at around 400,000.

