

The United States said Monday Russia was not moving fast enough
to qualify for membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO)
and ruled out any immediate repealing of a law inhibiting US-
Russian trade.


US Trade Representatives Susan Schwab said that Moscow was making
only "slow progress" for entry into the 150-member world trade
body.


"We would like to see Russia a full fledged member of the World
Trade Organization and hope that Russia will undertake the
commitments and responsibilities, the obligations that come with
being a WTO member," she said.


Schwab did not elaborate on the alleged lackluster efforts by
Russia when answering a question at a press conference, where she
announced that the United States was hauling China to the WTO
over alleged copyright violations and market access barriers.


The United States had promised to help Russia complete its push
for WTO membership before a crucial election cycle opens at the
end of the year.


Russia's parliamentary elections will be held in December and
presidential election in March 2008, when President Vladimir
Putin is due to step down.


Russia is the largest economy in the world that is not yet a WTO
member.


Schwab also said the US Congress was not prepared to revoke Cold
War-era legislation intended to pressure Soviet authorities over
emigration restrictions.


Cancellation of the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment is seen as a
crucial step for Moscow as it tries to finalize bilateral deals
with a number of countries, including the United States, to enter
the WTO.


"The question that I get asked when it comes to Jackson-Vanik and
permanent normal trade relations with Russia is, is the WTO ready
to let Russia in and the answer is, 'not yet,'" Schwab said.


WTO rules prevent members from imposing restrictions on other
members of the sort Jackson-Vanik dictates.


Russia has long sought cancellation of the legislation, which
Congress introduced in response to Soviet restrictions on the
emigration of Jews in the 1970s.


Schwab also said that a ministerial meeting she would be
attending in New Delhi this week of key WTO members would review
efforts to break the impasse over the Doha Round of global trade
negotiations.


Ministerial representatives from the G4 group of influential
trading players  -- the European Union, the United States, Brazil
and India -- are expected to strive to reach a common position on
agriculture, industrial goods and services during the two-day
meeting beginning Wednesday.


They would then be joined by their counterparts from Australia
and Japan in the so-called G6 Group.


The meetings were "to do sort of assessment of where we are",
Schwab said.


She is also scheduled to co-chair a ministerial-level meeting of
the US-India Trade Policy Forum with India's Minister of Commerce
and Industry Kamal Nath in New Delhi.

