

Michael Clarke is happy that Caribbean pitches are slow and flat
as he closes in on a dream World Cup average of 100.


Clarke, who recently celebrated his 26th birthday, hit an
unbeaten 55 on Sunday as defending champions Australia defeated
old rivals England by seven wickets to virtually wrap-up a semi-
final place.


The batsman, nicknamed 'Pup' by his teammates, is having a World
Cup to remember making 296 runs from five innings with a high
score of 93 not out and an average of 98.66.


"There's not much seam, not much swing by the time I get out
there so if I can't make runs on wickets like that, I'll never
make them," said the New South Wales player.


Despite his success, Clarke insists that it's Australian openers
Matthew Hayden and Adam Gilchrist as well as skipper Ricky
Ponting, at number three, who are proving crucial to his efforts
at the crease.


On Sunday, the Australian reply to England's 247 had already
reached 89 by the time he got to the wicket.


He and Ponting then took the total to 201 before the captain
departed to a run- out.


Big-hitting Andrew Symonds then smashed a quickfire cameo of 28
as Australia cruised home with 16 balls to spare.


"With the starts we've had from the openers and Ricky, it has
certainly made my life easier.


"And Andrew Symonds will have enjoyed spending a bit of time in
the middle. It's great to see him in a bit of form."


Clarke's approach to his innings on Sunday, on an Antiguan pitch
which became slower as the match wore on, drew praise from
England coach Duncan Fletcher who used him as an example in
pacing his time in the middle.


Clarke took 42 balls to hit his first boundary.


"If you look at Michael Clarke he showed a lot of patience and
that's the key - show some patience and don't panic, it's
important slowly to build momentum," said Fletcher.


"Sometimes you go in there and you can find the gaps but other
times you have to work out which angles you can hit and which
angles you can't hit.


"But the longer you stay out there the easier it gets and Clarke
showed it - when Ricky Ponting was batting freely he was just
occupying one end and slowly got himself into nick."

