

England coach Duncan Fletcher has told his misfiring team to
learn from world champions Australia if they are to salvage their
World Cup campaign.


England were beaten by seven wickets by Ricky Ponting's men in
Antigua on Sunday but Fletcher insists they can make the semi-
finals although they will have to win all three of their
remaining matches against Bangladesh, South Africa and West
Indies.


Fletcher has told his team that it is possible to pick themselves
up just as they did in Australia on the eve of the World Cup when
they shrugged off a losing run to beat the hosts in the final of
the Commonwealth Bank series.


"We did it in Australia when we were beaten quite comprehensively
and got through to the final and we've got to make sure we do the
same thing here," Fletcher said.


"It's mainly a mental thing rather than a technical thing. It's
how they think about it when they get out there in those crucial
periods, but it's important we don't talk too much about it and
cloud their thoughts."


England, who have lost three times to Test match opposition at
the World Cup, face Bangladesh on Wednesday at the refurbished
Kensington Oval with Fletcher telling his team that they have to
be more patient when they get to the wicket.


The England coach believes his team can learn from Michael
Clarke.


The middle-order Australian batsman played sedately at the start
of his innings and took 42 balls to hit his first boundary.


But he helped skipper Ricky Ponting put on 111 for the third
wicket before he remained unbeaten on 55.


"They have got to learn they have a little bit of time to have a
bit of patience to rebuild and regroup," said Fletcher.


"Sometimes we've gone in and the new batter has tried to score at
six an over, but on these wickets it's not easy.


"If you look at Michael Clarke he showed a lot of patience and
that's the key - show some patience and don't panic, it's
important slowly to build momentum.


"Sometimes you go in there and you can find the gaps but other
times you have to work out which angles you can hit and which
angles you can't hit.


"But the longer you stay out there the easier it gets and Clarke
showed it - when Ricky Ponting was batting freely he was just
occupying one end and slowly got himself into nick."

