

More than 30 years after it began, funding problems have left the
TransSaharan road project, which would open up huge areas of
African desert, far from its destination.


The planned route from the Algerian capital to Lagos in Nigeria
aims to link up the Maghreb to the African countries south of the
Sahara.


During a meeting in Algiers of the six countries involved this
week, Algerian Public Transport Minister Amar Ghoul said 3,000
kilometres (1,864 miles) of a total 10,000 km (6,213 miles) of
road still needed building.


Nigeria has completed its 1,300 kilometres (808 miles) of road
and so has Tunisia -- but Algeria, Chad, Niger and Mali are yet
to finish their sections.


The situation has barely changed since the last meeting of the
liaison committee on the TransSaharan route (CLRT), which sees
the countries meet twice a year to discuss the project's
progress.


Almost half of the stretch that still needs building does not
have financing, including a 600-km part in Mali, 200 km in Niger
and 600 km in Chad, the CLRT said.


Despite a tentative economic revival in Algeria, construction
work has been held up by a lack of funding, and Ghoul urged his
African partners to prepare a dossier to present to investors at
their next meeting in September in Paris.


The committee's general secretary, Mohammed Ayadi, put the cost
of each kilometre of road at about 100,000 euros (133,669
dollars).


According to Hocine Necib, Algeria's director of roads, the
missing sections "will not be built until all the financial
resources are mobilised."


He called for participating countries to set a deadline for the
project, which was originally due to finish in 2010.


Another sticking point is the weak trade links between the
TransSaharan partners. CLRT general secretary Ayadi warned that
this had to change because the profitability of the project
depended on it.


The road's promoters are relying in part on the new TransSaharan
gas pipeline, which will link up Nigeria and Algeria via Niger
from 2015, to improve commercial relations.


Alongside the 4,000-kilometre-long (2,485-mile) pipeline will be
a fibre optic cable which will link up the six countries.


The pipeline is to cost an estimated 10 billion dollars (7.5
billion euros) and, with a capacity of 20 to 30 billion cubic
metres per year (700 to 1,000 cubic foot), is aimed primarily at
supplying Europe.


The main sections that still need building are: in Algeria,
between Tamanrasset and In-Gezzam, towards Niger, and Tamanrasset
to Timiaouine, towards Mali; in Chad, between the Nigerian border
and N'Djamena; in Mali between Bourem and Timiaouine, on the
Algerian border; and in Niger between Agadez and Zinder and
Inguezam and Arlit.

