

China's trade surplus fell sharply in March, customs figures
showed Tuesday, as the government claimed efforts to curb exports
and soothe angry trading partners were finally kicking in.


China's March trade surplus plunged 38.6 percent from a year
earlier to 6.9 billion dollars and was less than a third of near-
record February figure, according to data on the customs
authorities' website.


Exports last month rose by just 6.9 percent to 83.4 billion
dollars, with imports up 14.5 percent at 76.6 billion dollars.


The announcement came amid a spike in trade tensions with the
United States after Washington announced on Monday it would lodge
a formal complaint with the World Trade Organisation over rampant
copyright abuse.


China has been eager to prove it is addressing concerns about its
trading policies after its surplus last year soared 74 percent to
hit a record 177.5 billion dollars.


The balance with the United States alone was a staggering 223
billion dollars, according to US figures.


With last month's surplus marking a sharp decline from February's
23.8 billion dollars and 15.9 billion dollars in January, Chinese
officials said the declining trend was here to stay.


"The effect of last year's policy will be seen this year," said
vice commerce minister Gao Hucheng, according to the China Daily,
in remarks made prior to the release of the trade figures.


He was referring to a series of measures taken in recent months
to boost imports, such as a decision to scrap import licenses for
a range of steel materials and other products. Beijing has also
cut export tax breaks.


"The surplus of roughly 40 billion dollars in January and
February is not indicative of the trend for the first quarter and
the rest of the year," Gao said.


However, Stephen Green, a Shanghai-based economist with Standard
Chartered, said he expected export growth to quickly return to
about 25 to 27 percent year-on- year and that the surplus would
continue to rise throughout 2007.


And despite the shrinking March surplus, the surplus for the
first three months of the year of some 46.6 billion dollars was
still double the figure for the same period in 2006, Green said
in a research note.


"Only three years ago convention was that the first quarter was a
trade deficit quarter for China, after the Christmas shopping
bonanza," said Green.


"So, in our view, this number will do nothing zilch, nada, to
address political concerns in the United States about China's
overall trade surplus."


Independent economists also said the sharp drop from February to
March was more likely to reflect "front loading" than a
consistent trend.


By this they meant that exporters struggled in February to
complete orders before being hit by news curbs aimed at reining
in exports, such as the end to the tax breaks.


"We thought front loading of shipments could persist in March but
it seemed that there was not too much left last month," said Sun
Mingchun, a Hong Kong-based economic analyst with Lehman
Brothers.


"We do feel surprised about the drop but it's still too early to
say it has become a trend given the unusual changes in the last
two months," he said.


For the first three months, exports totaled 252.1 billion
dollars, up 27.8 percent, while imports rose 18.2 percent from a
year earlier to 205.7 billion dollars.

