

Tamil Tiger rebels Tuesday backed an Amnesty International
campaign to shame Sri Lanka's government during the cricket World
Cup and said it should be extended to a full sporting boycott of
the island.


The London-based rights watchdog has been asking Sri Lanka to
improve its rights record and has urged thousands of fans in the
Caribbean to sign special white cricket balls marked "play by the
rules."


Amnesty says the Colombo government, the Tamil Tiger guerrillas
and other armed groups must commit themselves to allowing
independent human rights monitors to oversee the island's long-
running ethnic conflict.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Ealam (LTTE) said the Amnesty
campaign would raise international awareness among the majority
Sinhalese population about "the brutality of their government
against the Tamil population."


The Tigers have been fighting for a separate state for the Tamil
minority in a bloody war that has claimed more than 60,000 lives
since 1972.


"The apartheid South African regime was brought to its knees by
using sports to raise political awareness among the white South
Africans," Tiger spokeswoman Selvy Navaruban told AFP.


"I hope in a similar fashion the campaign started by Amnesty
International will evolve into an international sports boycott
against the Sri Lankan cricket team," she said.


However, Amnesty said the campaign was not aimed at the Sri
Lankan cricket team, though the government and Sri Lanka Cricket,
the sport's governing body, have already lodged a protest with
the International Cricket Council.


Last week, the influential Free Media Movement (FMM), which
consists of journalists and rights activists, said Amnesty's use
of the tournament could anger moderates and help the government
take a more hardline stance.


"To mix sports in general, and cricket in particular, with human
rights advocacy, is a gross error and strategic blunder in a Sri
Lankan context," the FMM said.


Cricket is hugely popular in Sri Lanka and cuts through political
and ethnic lines.


"Amnesty International's actions at the Cricket World Cup, for
the best of intent, may well result in the worst of outcomes for
human rights activists in Sri Lanka," the FMM said.


However, the guerrillas thought otherwise.


"Anyone who thinks cricket can be used to gloss over their
government's brutality is utterly ignorant," Navaruban said.


Rights activists have said that more than 750 people have
disappeared in the island in the past year as government troops
battle Tamil Tiger rebels.


In recent months, bodies have been found of people shot dead
"execution-style" and dumped in swamps and roadsides.


Sri Lanka are due to host a high-profile cricket series against
England later this year.

