

Oil prices were firmer in Asian trade Tuesday as investors
revisited concerns over tight US gasoline (petrol) supplies after
the end of the standoff over Iran's detention of British military
personnel, dealers said.


At 10:25 am (0215 GMT), New York's main contract, light sweet
crude for May delivery, was 20 cents higher at 61.71 US dollars a
barrel, up from 61.51 dollars in late US trades Monday.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was up 26 cents at 66.85
dollars.


US gasoline reserves, closely watched as the summer driving
season arrives, fell five million barrels to 205.2 million in the
week to March 30, against a forecast drawdown of 300,000 barrels.


The sharper-than-expected fall is heightening concerns ahead of
the summer season when many Americans take to the road for their
vacation, dealers said.


"The size of the US gasoline stocks are looking increasingly
tight," said Gerard Burg, an analyst with National Australia Bank
in Melbourne.


"That's the key thing that people are looking at the moment ...
that's the main concern," he said.


Dealers said the market rebound reflected a return to normal
after the long Easter weekend.


"What we are seeing is a rebuilding as traders return to work,"
said Burg.


"Prices dipped quite strongly last week ... a lot of people were
closing out positions for the holiday," he added.


Meanwhile, Iran's announcement Monday that it had vastly expanded
its uranium enrichment program is expected to keep geopolitical
issues to the forefront, dealers said.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad used a high profile speech at
Iran's main nuclear site to announce that the country had
succeeded in setting up an "industrial scale" operation to enrich
uranium.


This could see Washington pushing for more sanctions against Iran
which has already been hit with two sets of UN sanctions for
refusing to suspend its reprocessing work.


Washington and the West fear the uranium enrichment program is
aimed at producing nuclear weapons but Tehran insists it is only
designed to make fuel for power stations.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest producer of crude and the
concern is that oil supply will be disrupted if tensions between
Tehran and the West escalate.

