

One of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's top advisers on
Monday urged Washington to lead a policy "U-turn" in Iraq and
recognize that military force would fail to stem the bloodshed.


"The time has come for the United States to take the lead,
actually, in doing a U-turn," said Ali Allawi, who was in
Washington to promote the US publication of his book, "The
Occupation of Iraq: Winning the War, Losing the Peace."


"And by that I mean there has to be a recognition that the
military solution is insufficient, that the political resolution
of domestic Iraqi groups is impossible if you don't relate it to
the loss or gain of power and the security interests of nearby
countries," he told a news conference.


Allawi, a former finance, defense and trade minister who is the
cousin of Iraq's former prime minister Ayad Allawi, suggested an
"international congress," possibly led by Washington, should be
called to hash out solutions.


In this forum, he said, "an individual or individuals are given a
kind of super- ambassadorial powers to negotiate a security
architecture for the Middle East, excluding Palestine; that's
another issue.


"And that would, in turn, reflect on the domestic power
arrangements," he said.


Allawi's book is highly critical of US missteps in Iraq since the
2003 invasion.


Earlier, he called for a federal system in Iraq as a solution for
the unrelenting violence.


"The present framework of the Iraqi state is inherently
unstable," Allawi said in written comments.


"Decision making is paralyzed by power-sharing formulas. The
machinery of the government itself is too decrepit and corrupt to
manage the country.


"The fiction that Iraq can be maintained in its present form
without prolonged violence and instability must be abandoned. A
regional solution may be the only possible answer."


Kurds and Shiites have been the main backers of a federalist
system in Iraq, whereby their largely autonomous regions in the
north and south would manage their own affairs while remaining
linked by a central government.


However, Sunni Arabs, who form around 20 percent of the
population and are largely located in central, resource-poor
parts of Iraq, have been less enthusiastic about such a plan for
fear it would deprive them of oil wealth.


The new regional governing authorities would have "wide powers"
and would need resources, while federal institutions would act as
"adjudicators between regions," Allawi argued.


"Security must be decentralized until such time as confidence
between the communities is reestablished," Allawi said, urging
that federalism be "underwritten by an international treaty that
would include regional powers."


"US troops would then be replaced by an international force to
stabilize the new federal system," he added.

