

The dollar gained support Monday from a stronger-than-expected
report on the US job market released late last week that
bolstered hopes in the resilience of the world's largest economy.


The euro was swapping hands at 1.3354 dollars at 2100 GMT
compared with 1.3417 late Friday in New York, and after the euro
had climbed sharply against the US currency last week.


The dollar meanwhile was fetching 119.29 yen, up a notch compared
with 118.83 yen on Friday.


Traders said a job report released by the government Friday had
helped lift the dollar's fortunes.


The government said 180,000 new jobs were created in March, much
more than anticipated, but speculators had been unable to trade
fully on the news with many financial markets shut on Good
Friday.


The report, which also showed the unemployment rate ticked down a
notch to 4.4 percent last month, fed hopes the US economy would
stave off a marked downturn amid a housing-led slump.


Traders were also preparing for the meeting in Washington of
finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven
(G7) nations later this week.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said last Friday that the G7
ministers would discuss currencies in general but would not focus
in particular on the weakness of the yen.


Meanwhile, in a week relatively thin on economic releases, market
players said they will be on the lookout for the minutes from the
March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee for clues on
the direction of US monetary policy.


In Japan, the Bank of Japan started a two-day monetary policy
meeting Monday but interest rates are widely expected to be left
on hold at 0.5 percent after consumer prices fell for the first
time for 10 months in February.


In late New York dealing, the British pound was being traded at
1.9602 dollars after 1.9718 Friday.


The dollar stood at 1.2269 Swiss francs from 1.2159.

