

Ireland captain Trent Johnston urged his team to learn fast and
finish their first-ever World Cup campaign on a high note, saying
improvements will help them in the future.


Ireland were beaten by 129 runs by New Zealand here on Monday,
their third successive Super Eights defeat.


"It's disappointing to lose the first three matches, but a lot of
positives have come out and we can use them for the game against
Australia and in the next two to finish on a high," said
Johnston.


"Australia are the best team in the world, so we need to have
motivation for that game and be competitive."


Ireland, who upset former champions Pakistan in the first round,
have had a torrid time in the Super Eights, losing to England by
48 runs and by seven wickets against South Africa.


"You can say that it's inexperience but we must learn with each
opportunity and do better and better," added the captain.


Ireland's best chance to score two points in the Super Eights
remains against Bangladesh who they meet in Barbados on April 15.


They also face Australia on April 13 in Barbados, before playing
their last match against Sri Lanka on April 18 in Grenada.


However, Bangladesh's win over South Africa and their
determination to qualify for the semi-finals will make Ireland's
task more difficult.


"We have certain areas to improve, like we need to bowl the death
overs better than we have done and play the spinners well," said
Johnston.


They failed to cope against New Zealand spinners Daniel Vettori
(4-23) and Jeetan Patel (2-32) and were dismissed for 134,
chasing a challenging 264.


Ireland had put pressure on New Zealand through spinners Kyle
McCallan and Andrew White, who shared four wickets between them,
but opener Peter Fulton's 83 and a late flurry from Brendon
McCullum (47) and James Franklin (34 not out) allowed New Zealand
to set a formidable target.


"We bowled half a dozen bad overs and those were at the end. Our
spinners bowled outstandingly well, but we let the game slip in
the last half dozen overs and chasing 260 was going to be very
tough against two spinners," said Johnston.


The captain admitted that injured all-rounder Andre Botha was
sorely missed in the New Zealand match.


"He (Botha) is one of our best players. We missed him in bowling
and his absence left us with less options in the death overs.
Kevin (O'Brien), myself and Boyd (Rankin) bowled death overs. It
didn't come off and it's something we need to work on hard for
the next games."


Coach Adrian Birrell said New Zealand were tough opponents.


"We did well in the middle section and the spinners did really
well, but McCullum and Franklin put it beyond us. The target of
260-plus was a formidable target and we were always going to
struggle," said Birrell.


The Ireland coach was full of praise for McCullum and Franklin
who added 71 for the eighth wicket.


"McCullum has got a double hundred in the first class cricket and
one hundred in Tests. He batted very well and took the game away
from us."


Birrell said New Zealand, who now top the Super Eights table, can
win the World Cup.


"New Zealand's chances are very good. I backed South Africa and
they lost to Bangladesh. New Zealand's two spinners are a
handful, (Shane) Bond upfront is real handful and they have good
all-rounders. Their batting goes down deep so they have a good
chance."

