

Sunderland's rookie manager Roy Keane said his team's sensational
turnaround was down to their gutsy fighting character after they
claimed pole position in the race for the Premiership.


Former Republic of Ireland and Manchester United captain Keane
took over the Black Cats in August, when they were one place from
the bottom of the table after four defeats and one win.


But they made it right the way to the top of The Championship on
Monday -- for the first time since they were promoted as winners
two seasons ago -- thanks to a late 2-1 comeback victory at play-
off spot chasers Southampton.


"We have only been top for five minutes so it is difficult to say
how it feels," Keane told reporters.


"The players showed great character and when you've got that
you've got a great chance.


"They're obviously good players but with no character you're
going to get nowhere.


"For a few games we have had to dig deep and that was the case
here. The whole game summed up what the players are about.


"When you go 1-0 down away from home it is always difficult but
my players keep doing the business."


True to his Manchester United pedigree, Keane refused to rest on
his laurels.


"Now is not the time to reflect on what has happened. We cannot
do that with four games still to go," he insisted.


Marek Saganowski put the Saints ahead in the 67th minute at St
Mary's but the visitors equalised though a splendid individual
goal from Trinidad and Tobago winger Carlos Edwards, 10 minutes
later, and won it through Grant Leadbitter's strike with three
minutes to go.


The 2-1 win saw them overtake Derby County at the top by one
point.


The Rams drew 1-1 with visitors Coventry City before 29,940 fans
at Pride Park, meaning Derby took just two points from a possible
six over the Easter period.


Leon McKenzie gave the Sky Blues the lead in the 73rd minute but
Rams captain Matt Oakley rescued a point 11 minutes from time to
leave them on 78 points with four games remaining as their title
charge stumbles.


"We've now got to go and grab this with both hands," said Rams
boss Billy Davies.


"We've got to be confident, we've got to be positive and we've
got to have that belief.


"We know it won't be easy, we know there's tough games ahead, we
know there's still lots of twists and turns."


Birmingham City stay third in the table, the top play-off spot,
despite a shock 1-0 defeat at relegation-threated Barnsley that
could prove deadly to their automatic promotion hopes.


West Bromwich Albion dominated throughout at Carrow Road but
scraped a 2-1 win at Norwich City thanks to a last-minute winner
by Senegal striker Diomansy Kamara.


The Baggies move up one place to fourth on 70 points.


Their bitter Black Country rivals Wolverhampton Wanderers beat
visitors Hull City 3-1 at Molineux to move into fifth place on 69
points.


Preston North End lost 3-2 at home to relegation zone scrappers
Southend United thanks to two goals in the last two minutes. The
Lilywhites, on 68 points, are in the final play-off spot.


Thanks to Barnsley's win at Oakwell, Leeds United, 2001 Champions
League semi- finalists, joined Southend and Luton Town back in
the relegation zone.

