

Iran's announcement Monday that it had vastly expanded its
uranium enrichment program sets the stage for a US push for more
sanctions against Tehran, but also for a parallel European bid to
negotiate a way out of the crisis, US officials and analysts
said.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad used a high profile speech at
Iran's main nuclear site to announce that the country had
succeeded in setting up an "industrial scale" operation to enrich
uranium.


He provided no details, but non-proliferation experts said
industrial scale would mean operating around 3,000 centrifuges to
produce the enriched uranium, compared to the 164 centrifuges
Iran had previously declared.


Iran has already been hit with two sets of UN sanctions for
refusing to suspend its reprocessing work, which the West fears
is aimed at producing nuclear weapons but Tehran insists is only
designed to make fuel for atomic power stations.


Experts suggested Iran's latest act of defiance could provide the
basis for a face-saving resolution of the crisis when European
and Iranian negotiators meet again in coming weeks.


But the US responded sharply to Ahdaminejad's statement, saying
Iran's continued defiance would lead to tougher sanctions against
the Islamic regime. The last sanctions resolution adopted on
March 24 set a 60-day deadline for Iran's compliance.


"We are very concerned about Iran's announcement that they
entered an 'industrial stage' of nuclear fuel production," White
House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the Iranians were
"almost completely encircled by the international community
because of their actions, and that pressure is only going to
increase if they persist."


McCormack declined to "prejudge" specific actions Washington
would seek in addition to financial and other UN sanctions
already targeting Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


"But certainly there is a potential of more (UN) resolutions of
similar type down the road," he said.


"The Iranians are doing a lot of work on behalf of those in the
international system who do want to increase the international
pressure by making speeches like this and making announcements
like they did today," he said.


McCormack however also held out the option of a "negotiated
pathway" through the crisis which would involve Western nations
providing Iran with aid and other incentives -- including help
developing a civilian nuclear power industry -- if Tehran
suspends its uranium enrichment program.


Talks between the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier
Solana, and Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, are
due to resume soon, though no dates have been announced,
McCormack said.


Some experts expressed doubt Monday that the Iranians had
actually begun to enrich uranium with their larger array of
centrifuges for fear of torpedoing the new round of negotiations.


"The purpose today was to publicly state that they had the
centrifuges," said David Albright, a former UN nuclear inspector
and now president of the Washington-based Institute for Science
and International Security.


"It would be a big surprise though if they did start to enrich,"
he said, arguing that putting the centrifuges into action would
"seriously reduce their chances of having any meaningful
negotiations with the Europeans."


"I think they're holding back."


Albright suggested the Iranians wanted to establish some "facts
on the ground" ahead of the new talks by showing they had
mastered the technology of building centrifuges.


"I think (Ahmadinejad) wanted to lay out very clearly that
they've achieved a certain level and you better accept it," he
said.


A possible compromise with the Europeans could involve Iran
pursuing its centrifuge development but freezing actual uranium
enrichment pending negotiations with the US and its major power
allies, he said.


But it was unlikely the US would agree to such a plan, he said.


George Perkovich, another non-proliferation expert with the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said Iran's success
in furthering its enrichment program could provide an opening for
negotiations.


"They think that if they did what the Security Council called for
and suspended enrichment, it would be a sign of weakness," he
said.


"Now they can claim (success) and you could turn it into an
argument that says: 'Fine, congratulations, you did what you set
out to do, now you can take a break'," he said.

