

The Democratic-controlled Senate is ready to approve US funding
for hotly contested embryonic stem-cell research this week -- and
hand President George W. Bush a new opportunity to veto the bill.


The Senate is likely to vote on a bill the House of
Representatives approved in January, lifting a restriction on
using federal funds for stem-cell research on human embryos,
which may hold the keys to medical advances in treating
degenerative diseases.


A similar text was passed last year in Congress, while it was
still controlled by Bush's Republicans.


It prompted the first veto of his presidency, in the name of
protecting human life which begins, he says, at the moment of
conception.


History seems ready to repeat itself in the coming weeks or
months, but with a twist: the majority favoring federal funding
for the research grew among moderates during last year's
congressional campaign debates, placing more pressure on Bush.


This new political test of wills between Congress and the White
House could prove even messier than the loggerheads over the war
in Iraq.


A presidential veto already awaits bills, passed but not
reconciled by each house, conditioning emergency funding for the
war in Iraq on setting of a schedule for the withdrawal of US
troops.


While a less passionate issue, the stem-cell debate puts Bush at
odds with many leaders of his own party, but more in tune with
his conservative evangelical Christian political "base," as he
calls it.


Tony Fratto, a Bush spokesman, said in January there is no sign
Bush will budge.


"The president will certainly veto the legislation if it comes to
his desk because it would compel all American taxpayers to pay
for research that relies on the intentional destruction of human
embryos for the derivation of stem cells."


Researchers working under the federal restrictions may use only
those cell lines available prior to the 2001 ban, and have their
qualms about those.


"American science would be better served and the nation would be
better served if we let our scientists have access to more cell
lines," the director of the US National Institutes of Health,
(NIH), Elias Zerhouni, said in Senate testimony.


"These cell lines have exhibited instability from the genetic
standpoint," he said.


"It's not possible for me to see how we can continue the momentum
of science in stem-cell research with the cell lines that we have
currently at NIH that can be funded," he said.


Despite the weight of the scientific argument, there is no
assurance that the upcoming Senate vote will pave the way toward
changing federal law; the House of Representatives has not been
able to raise the two-thirds vote needed to override a
presidential veto.


The 20-hour Senate debate opens Tuesday.


That will also grant an opportunity to examine a compromise text
sponsored by two Republicans, which would encourage stem-cell
research on "embryos that have naturally lost the ability to
develop into fetuses, such as those that have died 'naturally'
during fertility treatments."

