

French-speaking Madagascar voted this week to reform its
constitution, partly to make English an official language in a
bid to woo foreign investments and open up to the world's lingua
franca.


Despite poor participation due to bad weather in Wednesday's
referendum, early results showed strong backing for the text that
also seeks to boost presidential powers and scrap the autonomy of
six provinces.


In addition to English, French and Malagasy will be the Indian
Ocean island's official languages.


Currently, French is the official language in Madagascar, home to
some 18 million people, while Malagasy is its national tongue.


"We have begun using English more and more," said Jean-Eric
Rakotoarisoa, one of the officials who drafted the proposed new
basic law.


"Madagascar has joined anglophone bodies like the SADC (Southern
African Development Community). Therefore some communication will
be in English."


"Because we want to attract investors, it is important that the
laws on investment be written in English so that anglophones get
interested in our market," said Rakotoarisoa.


According to the Economic Development Board of Madagascar, the
country is targetting to attain 500 million dollars of foreign
direct investment annually by 2012 from the current 287 million
dollars.


In 2004, the latest available statistics, Madagacascar was
world's 154th recipient of foreign direct investment which
accounted for 4.7 percent of its GDP.


Currently, France is the leading foreign investor in Madagascar,
followed by Mauritius and China.


The former French colony has maintained close political, economic
and cultural ties with Paris since independence in 1960 and has
the second highest number of French schools in the world.


But relations between them worsened in 2002, when France
belatedly recognised Marc Ravalomanana, a fluent English-speaker,
as the president following months of political crisis sparked by
his predecessor's refusal to accept defeat.


However, President Jacques Chirac's two visits to the island in
2004 and 2005 helped thaw the frosty ties.


"We cannot remain stuck in the 100 years of French influence. It
is good that Madagascar is opening up to other languages," said
Alain Villechalane, the director of the Alliance Francaise
language institutions in Madagascar.


If the referendum is passed, Madagascar is set to follow the
example of Rwanda, a tiny central African nation that in 2002
adopted English as one of the country's three official languages,
although not via a referendum.


But unlike Madagascar, Rwanda has severed diplomatic ties with
France after a row erupted last year when a French judge called
for the prosecution of President Paul Kagame for complicity in
the death of his predecessor.


Rwanda ordered the closure of the French embassy in Kigali,
expelled French diplomats and shut down the French school and
cultural centre.


To boost the use of English, Madagascar's education ministry
recently began publishing a bi-monthly English-language newspaper
that is distributed to schools.


"This is to promote English, not to replace French. It is to open
up to the world," said Vohangy Lalao Ratsimba-Razafimahefa, an
education coordinator.


But with only one English-language school in the country,
Madagascar has a long road ahead of it before fluency in the
language becomes widespread.

