

New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming has said his team are capable
of winning the World Cup for the first time if they maintain
their momentum.


New Zealand kept their unbeaten record intact when they whipped
debutants Ireland by 129 runs here on Monday to post their sixth
successive victory in the tournament, including three in the
group.


Defending champions Australia and New Zealand are the only
unbeaten sides with eight points from four matches. One more win
will assure them of a place in the semi-finals.


"We know we are capable of winning it. I think we are better
prepared this time. We are in the semi-finals or close to it by
winning one more game. We've got three tough games," said
Fleming.


New Zealand are now just one short of equalling their 10-match
winning run of 2004, having already beaten Australia three times
at home before the World Cup.


Fleming said his team were close to solving their fitness
problems ahead of  a heavy schedule.


New Zealand are sweating over batsman Ross Taylor who has missed
the last four games due a hamstring injury, sustained during his
half-century against Kenya in a group match.


"The fitness of the side is quite good. We are getting guys who
are quite close. I think Taylor is close (to regaining fitness),"
said Fleming.


"We are getting back to full fitness at the right time. We have a
heavy schedule now, with three games against three top sides. We
have our work cut out for us, but it has been a good run so far,"
said Fleming.


New Zealand will now meet Sri Lanka, South Africa and Australia
in the last three games in Grenada.


Fleming said he was pleased with his team's power-hitting on a
slow track at a crucial stage against Ireland.


"That is our positive and it has been a strength for some time.
Our ability to hit the ball at the death period of an innings has
been very strong," said the New Zealand captain.


"It was another example of how it can get you out of trouble and
win you matches. In that five-over period, I think we put on
about 50 runs, which in most games is going to leave you in a
pretty good spot."


New Zealand were struggling for runs before wicket-keeper Brendon
McCullum and lower-order batsman James Franklin put on a brisk 71
for the eighth wicket to help their team post a challenging
263-8.


McCullum hit a 37-ball 47 and Franklin a 22-ball 34 not out as
New Zealand plundered 45 in the last three overs.


"The fact that we got to 263 is a testament to our power-hitting
and McCullum's ability to hit the ball over the rope and into the
gaps at the death," said Fleming.


"He is a good hitter of the ball. We've got some good hitters
down the order and we just need to make sure we get into a
position where we can use them properly."

