

Almost two decades after trading in their guns for guitars, the
musicians of Tinariwen, which means "Desert Boys" in their
African dialect, are bringing the group's unique sound and words
of freedom to European audiences this spring.


"We hope never to have resort to arms again," the group told AFP
in a written interview. "Our guitars are carrying our message
much farther today than the Kalashnikovs did."


The original members of Tinariwen, who speak the Berber Tamashek
dialect used by Tuareg nomads across remote regions of the
Sahara, originally met in 1982 in a rebel training camp in Libya.


They have since won international renown and last February
released their third album, "Aman Iman," which means "Water is
Life."


At the training camp in Libya they called themselves "imazighen,"
meaning "free men" in Tamashek, and in 1990 they joined a
rebellion against the government of Mali to defend the rights and
identity of the Tuareg people.


After a ceasefire and accord, the members of the band handed in
their weapons and turned to music to fight for the Tuareg side.


"We call our music 'asouf,' which stands for the nostalgia that
runs deep in our culture," said the musicians, who live in the
northern Mali town of Kidal not far from the Algerian border.


Magnetic on stage, the band members strum their electric guitars
with their faces shrouded by keffiyehs. A documentary entitled
"Teshumara, the guitars of the revolution" recently played in
European theatres, and their previous album, "Amassakoul" ("The
Traveller"), released in 2004, sold 70,000 copies.


The group -- which sings mostly in French and Tamashek -- will be
touring France through April, and in early May will make stops in
Britain and Belgium.


For many years the only Tuareg group known internationally,
Tinariwen, which has been acclaimed by both Carlos Santana and
Radiohead, is no longer the only Tuareg group to sing the loss of
their people's identity.


Last October, another group, Toumast or "Identity," released
their first album "Ishoumar," derived from a French word for the
unemployed, a problem faced by many of the Tuareg people who have
settled in towns.  They too will play dates in France through
April.


The group's leader, the guitarist and singer Moussa Ag Kenya, who
expresses a sadness reminiscent of the blues, was also a member
of the resistance.


Desert Rebel's music, on the other hand, is more militant and
anti- globalisation. Born from a meeting between the Nigerian
Abdallah Ag Oumbadougou and musicians from Gnawa Diffusion, Mano
Solo, Tryo, IAM, Desert Rebel also released its first, hip-hop
inspired album in October.


Tartit, or "Union," is a largely female group. In Tuareg society,
men must cover their faces but women not, and it is one of the
few people in Africa where women have the power to choose and
divorce their husbands. The sound of this group is more
traditional, using voice, tambourines, and the imzad, a
traditional violin played exclusively by women, as well as
guitars.

