

Officials from the two Koreas were Tuesday to hold talks on
expanding reunions for long-separated families and on the fate of
hundreds of abductees and prisoners of war whom Seoul says are
still being detained in the North.


The three-day Red Cross talks will begin Tuesday afternoon at the
North's Seoul- funded mountain resort of Mount Kumgang.


"The talks will focus on the issue of South Korean POWs and
abductees. We hope they will produce good results," the South's
Red Cross spokesman Kim Hyung-Sup told AFP.


Seoul says 485 of its citizens have been kidnapped since the end
of the 1950-1953 Korean War and that 548 prisoners of war were
never sent home. Pyongyang denies holding any South Koreans
against their will.


Despite its official denial, Pyongyang has allowed a selected
number of POWs or abductees to hold brief reunions in the North
with South Korean relatives as part of a broader family reunion
programme.


North Korea has admitted kidnapping some Japanese during the Cold
War era to train its spies, and family members believe other
nationals apart from Koreans and Japanese were also abducted.


Seoul hopes during Tuesday's talks to expand the reunions for
families separated since the conflict half a century ago.


Jang Seok-Jun, secretary-general of the South's Red Cross, said
late Monday he would push for more reunions when he meets Choe
Song-Ik, vice president of the North's Red Cross.


"We will make every effort to solve fundamental problems,
locating those POWs and abductees and easing the pain of many
separated families," Jang said.


The family reunion programme was expanded after a 2000 inter-
Korean peace summit. They are a pressing issue because many
relatives are ageing and desperate to greet loved ones before
dying.


More than 14,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-face reunions
since the summit. The last round was in June last year and the
next will be at Mount Kumgang on May 9-14.


About 2,700 other Koreans have been reunited via video link since
August 2005. These are aimed at people too old to travel for
face-to-face meetings.


Despite the programme, more than 90,000 people from South Korea
alone have still not seen loved ones since the war. There are no
mail or telephone services across the heavily fortified border.


The two Koreas remain technically at war since the conflict ended
in an armistice and not a peace treaty.


Civic groups working for the families of the abductees say up to
80,000 South Koreans were kidnapped during the war itself.

