

Britain's defence secretary announced Monday that military
personnel have been banned from selling their stories to the
media, after his department was slammed for permitting sailors
held by Iran last month to accept payment for interviews.


Des Browne said the Royal Navy had "not reached a satisfactory
outcome" in its decision to allow the 14 men and one woman held
by Tehran for two weeks to financially benefit from their media
interaction, though he acknowledged it was a "very tough call."


The row erupted over the weekend after the defence ministry made
the unusual decision to permit the group to strike deals with
newspapers and broadcasters, saying there were "exceptional
circumstances." The ban will not be enforced retroactively.


It later emerged that 26-year-old mother-of-one Faye Turney, the
public face of the crisis, had reportedly received around 100,000
pounds (147,000 euros, 196,000 dollars) for interviews with The
Sun tabloid, published Monday, and commercial broadcaster ITV,
which aired its broadcast Monday evening.


Newspaper reports suggested the group could make up to 250,000
pounds between them.


In his first comments on the controversy, Browne, who was aware
of the original decision, said that until officials have "clear
guidance for the future ... no further service personnel will be
allowed to talk to the media about their experiences in return
for payment."


"All of us who have been involved over the last few days
recognise we have not reached a satisfactory outcome. We must
learn from this."


Attacks on the ministry and the 15 sailors and marines mounted
following the publication of Turney's account in The Sun, while
the Daily Mirror carried an interview with 20-year-old Arthur
Batchelor, the youngest of the group.


Earlier, the Second Sea Lord Vice Admiral Adrian Johns told the
BBC that a review would be launched to ensure regulations were
consistent across all the military forces, following suggestions
the head of the army told soldiers they would not be allowed to
sell their stories.


Opposition politicians accused the Labour Party government of
hitting a new propaganda low as a media debate raged as to
whether the sailors and marines should have been allowed to
speak.


In the ITV interview, Turney commented that she had been "offered
a hell of a lot of money for my story" and that she had not taken
"the biggest offer."


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman said he and Royal Marines
Captain Chris Air, the two officers in the group, were not
accepting money for their stories.


"I personally find the subject (of payment) a bit unsavoury, but
I don't begrudge people who have been through an awful ordeal
making a bit of money out of this," Carman told GMTV television.


Tellingly, Kelvin MacKenzie, The Sun's editor during its
sensationalist heyday in the 1980s, said he would not have chased
the sailors' stories and accused government "idiots" of making a
"catastrophic error."


"Curiously enough I don't think I'd touch it with a barge pole,"
he told BBC radio.


Turney, who became the public face of the crisis, spoke in her
interviews with The Sun and ITV of how she was forced to strip to
her underpants by her captors, feared rape and execution and felt
like a "traitor" when she signed "confession" letters.


Batchelor told the Mirror of how he was similarly stripped, and
an interrogator indicated that if he did not co-operate he would
not see his family. It was unclear if he was paid for his
interview.


The group were captured on March 23. Britain maintains they were
in Iraqi waters carrying out anti-smuggling operations under a
United Nations mandate. Iran insists they were in its waters.


The sailors were freed and flew home Thursday.


Much of the British press was left unimpressed by the
controversy, with The Guardian writing in a scathing editorial
that it was unsure "whose judgement should we criticise first
when there are so many candidates jostling for censure?"


"Step forward the Defence Secretary Des Browne, who ... was
shutting the stable door after the horse had bolted."


"Nor is there much cause for pride in the performance of the
hostages, who are apparently trained to resist a ruthless enemy
but, in some cases, have surrendered to (media baron) Rupert
Murdoch even faster than they gave in to their Iranian
interrogators."

