

A recent Taliban kidnapping campaign shows the militants are
determined to capitalise on a deal made by the Afghan government
to win the freedom of an abducted Italian journalist, analysts
said Tuesday.


The Islamist movement, which has led a bloody insurgency since
being toppled in 2001, has abducted nearly a dozen people in the
past month including La Repubblica correspondent Daniele
Mastrogiacomo and two French aid workers.


After two weeks in captivity, the Italian was released in
exchange for the freeing of five Taliban rebels by the government
of US-backed President Hamid Karzai -- a decision that led to
international condemnation.


The insurgents on Sunday then beheaded an Afghan reporter, Ajmal
Naqshbandi, captured along with Mastrogiacomo after saying the
government had failed to meet demands to free two more rebels.


Meanwhile the Taliban have threatened to kill a member of a five-
strong Afghan medical team abducted on March 27 if the government
does not agree to talks. The rebels have not made any demands yet
for the French nationals.


Analysts said the Italian deal -- described by Karzai as
"extraordinary" and a one-off -- had opened the floodgates for
further abductions.


"There is no doubt the deal encouraged the Taliban for the
subsequent kidnappings. After their men were freed, the Taliban
said 'Oh look, it works,'" said former Taliban administrator-
turned-writer and expert Waheed Mujda.


But Mujda questioned what options Karzai had when he was under
pressure from an Italian government whose Afghan mission is
unpopular at home.


Mujda said Taliban leaders were aware of world politics from
their time in goverment and knew of the political climate in
Italy when they snatched Mastrogiacomo.


"They very smartly took advantage of the time," said Mujda, who
worked in the Taliban foreign ministry during the movement's
1996-2001 rule.


Karzai defended the deal this week, saying he did so because the
Italian government -- part of the international community backing
his fragile administration against the Taliban -- could have
collapsed.


Italy has some 1,800 troops in Afghanistan operating under the
NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and is
helping the war-weary nation build a road to its poverty-stricken
central highlands.


University lecturer and Afghan politics expert Wadir Safi however
said Karzai's decision was "very premature".


"It was a green light to the Taliban, indirectly encouraging them
for more such crimes," he said. "When they saw their friends
freed for one hostage obviously they'll do it again and again."


Several commentators warned that Afghanistan risked becoming
"another Iraq" in terms of kidnappings. Abductions by insurgent,
sectarian and criminal armed groups are rife in the Iraq, with
dozens of foreigners among the victims.


"It's not yet Iraq but it's not long before we'll see Kabul
becoming another Baghdad," Safi said.


However campaigning female Afghan legislator and journalist
Shukria Barakzai said the kidnappers' motives were different.


"I totally agree that the deal by Karzai was full of mistakes but
I think it's early to conclude Afghanistan is becoming Iraq," she
said.


"In Iraq they do it to terrorise but here the Taliban do it or
will do it to secure their colleagues' freedom," she added.

