

When he sees politicians in full flow on his television set,
Anwar reaches for the zapper. Like many Lebanese, he has
developed a strong aversion for the antics of the country's
political class.


"I turn to the satirical programmes that send them up instead,"
the photographer told AFP.


One such show depicts political leaders as puppets, wearing short
pants and being manipulated by their Iranian, Syrian, American
and French "masters."


With the sole exception of Al-Manar, the television channel of
the Shiite Hezbollah organisation, all Lebanon's private TV
stations broadcast satirical shows.


Undisputed leader of the pack is LBCI, with 26 percent of the
audience tuning in to "Basmat Watan" -- a play on words in Arabic
meaning both "smiles" and "death of a nation."


Its figures beat the eight o'clock news, which comes in a poor
fourth place with 18.4 percent of the ratings.


The audience for Basmat Watan also trounces the 16.3 percent
garnered by the highly valued political talkfest "Kalam Al-Nass"
-- "What the People Say."


One sketch depicts the smelly suit of a politician which
continues to stink, no matter whether the detergent used to clean
it is Western, Syrian or Iranian. The cleaner discovers that the
terrible odour comes from the man who wears it.


Basmat Watan producer Sharbel Khalil is a pioneer in this kind of
programming in Lebanon, which he began in 1993. A year ago a
sketch in which he parodied Hezbollah leader Sheikh Hassan
Nasrallah sparked rioting by the movement's supporters.


"Our satire has become an outlet," Khalil said. "By tuning in,
Lebanese compensate for their sense of powerlessness, and the
fact that they are not masters of their own destinies."


He is a staunch defender of the country's independence.


"In the past, I used to ridicule Syrian domination. These days I
strip naked our politicians who have offered us up as food to a
multitude of other influences," he said.


"The key is to take on absolutely everyone. I make no secret of
my sympathies for general Michel Aoun," the leader of the
Christian opposition, who is allied with Hezbollah.


"But one of my favourite skits shows a journalist whose face is
all puffed after interviewing the general," who is reportedly
quick-tempered.


Lebanon is known for its freedom of expression in a region
dominated by authoritarian regimes.


Andre Gedeon has taken up the torch of "The 10 O'Clock Theatre,"
a cabaret troupe specialising in satire that was founded in 1962.


One skit on the political power struggles shows a perilous bus
journey to Baabda -- the official residence of the country's
president -- in which the vehicle is full of Lebanese in the
dubious care of a particularly bad driver whose lack of skills
threatens to plunge them into a ravine at any moment.


Lebanon's current political crisis was partly sparked by Syria
issuing a decree in 2004 renewing the mandate of the president,
Emile Lahoud.


"We urge the Lebanese to laugh at themselves through their
history of blood and tears," said Gedeon.


"In denouncing politicians, we are sending a message to young
people not to allow themselves to be used as cannon fodder in a
new civil war aimed at satisfying their power-crazy leaders."


Lebanese politicians themselves have even been known to wield the
weapon of humour, albeit questionably.


In a political broadcast earlier this month the pro-Syrian
speaker of parliament, Nabih Berri, said he had "high hopes of
the SS" -- Syria and Saudi Arabia -- in solving the Lebanese
political crisis.

