

The leader of Bangladesh's main opposition party Sheikh Hasina
Wajed will return home to face corruption charges, party
officials said Tuesday, despite speculation she would become an
exile.


Party officials insisted that Hasina, Awami League president and
a former prime minister, would return from the United States
later this month to face accusations of extortion brought by a
Malaysian company.


"She will definitely return home. There is no question about it.
But I don't know the date," said Awami League general secretary
Abdul Jalil.


Hasina's press secretary Abul Kalam Azad said she would return on
April 22 or 23 from a vacation with her son and daughter.


The chief executive officer of Westmont Bangladesh Limited, a
Malaysian-owned company, filed the charges of extortion of 30
million taka (434,000 dollars) late Monday.


Police said Hasina would face arrest if the charges stood up
after initial investigation.


A similar extortion charge against Tareque Rahman, the
influential son of out- going prime minister Khaleda Zia, led to
his arrest last month by the army-led security forces.


Police said his trial at a fast-track court would begin on April
17.


Several newspapers reported that Hasina would not return to avoid
arrest, noting she may face more charges including over the
deaths of dozens of people during political unrest last October.


The mass-circulation Bengali daily Amar Desh quoted an unnamed
Awami League official saying Hasina would not come back.


Another leading daily Naya Diganta said that Hasina along with
her main political rival, Zia, faced exile as part of the
government's efforts to clean up politics.


The head of the Malaysian company said he gave the money to
Hasina at her official residence in 1998 as a favor for approving
a power plant development in northern Bangladesh,


The accusation came just days after Hasina blasted the military-
backed government for delaying elections.


Hasina, who also fronts a 19-party opposition alliance, would be
barred from contesting general elections if a court found her
guilty of extortion.


Bangladesh has been under a military-backed government since the
start of the year when polls scheduled for January 25 were
cancelled and a state of emergency enforced.


The government has vowed to clean up politics and carry out
sweeping reforms before setting a new date for elections.


Nearly 50 top-ranking politicians and prominent people have been
arrested.

