

A nationwide security alert was issued across Thailand after a
bomb exploded outside a Bangkok shopping centre that was also hit
in a wave of New Year's Eve attacks, officials said Tuesday.


The device blew up at a telephone booth in front of the Major
Cineplex Ratchayothin shopping centre on the northern outskirts
of the city late Monday.


No one was injured.


"There is a row of three phone booths and the bomb exploded in
one of them. The glass was shattered, but there were no
casualties," Bangkok city police spokesman Colonel Supisan
Pakdinarunart said.


The shopping centre was among nine places in Bangkok bombed on
New Year's Eve, blasts that killed three people and injured
dozens around the capital.


Those attacks were followed by a coordinated arson and bombing
spree across the insurgency-hit, mainly-Muslim southern provinces
at the start of the Lunar New Year in February. The incidents
left nine dead and 44 injured and were blamed on Islamic
separatists.


Interior Minister Aree Wongariya declined to speculate about who
might be behind the latest blast, but said he had ordered all of
Thailand's provinces to boost security for the upcoming Buddhist
New Year holiday.


"We have to provide security everywhere. I have ordered all
provincial governors to be on alert, and have dispatched our
informants to find out about any more possible attacks," he said.


The army has for months warned of possible attacks during
Songkran, the Buddhist New Year celebrations, which begin Friday
and run for five days.


Police and security officials tried to downplay concerns that the
blast was linked either to the unrest in the south or to the
Bangkok bombings.


One senior intelligence official, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said security agencies would divert some resources
from the insurgency in the south to step up their guard in the
capital during the holiday.


"We will give more importance to Bangkok rather than the three
southern provinces," he said.


Police said they believed the bomb was meant to cause panic
rather than damage, and could have been related to business
disputes linked to the shopping centre.


"It was a weak bomb that caused a loud noise, but was not meant
to kill. That's different from the New Year Eve bombings,"
Bangkok Metropolitan Police Commander Adisorn Noncie said.


"It's unlikely that it was connected with the unrest in the south
or the New Year bomb attacks. It was just someone wanting to
cause panic," he added.


Thailand's top security official, Prakit Prachonpachanuk, who
heads the National Security Council, said Monday's blast would
not likely prompt the government to declare a state of emergency
in Bangkok.


"We have to be prudent about declaring a state of emergency, and
consider whether it's appropriate in response to the situation,"
he said.


Thailand's junta leader Sonthi Boonyaratglin had urged the
government to declare an emergency in Bangkok to crack down on
small protests against the military regime. So far, the
government has refused.


The regime ousted former premier Thaksin Shinawatra in a
military-backed coup in September last year citing alleged
corruption of the Thaksin government, and following months of
political unrest.

