

Australia announced on Tuesday it would nearly double its
military force in Afghanistan to 1,000 troops, warning that the
war against a resurgent Taliban would not be won without extra
effort.


A special task force spearheaded by 300 elite soldiers would be
deployed shortly to help counter an expected summer offensive by
the Islamic hardliners, Prime Minister John Howard told a news
conference.


"Afghanistan faces a crucial phase as international and Afghan
national security forces work to consolidate the gains made since
the overthrow of the Taliban regime," he said.


The Taliban were ousted by a US-led invasion after the September
11, 2001 terror attacks. Howard warned that the possibility of
Afghanistan becoming a "bolthole for terrorists" again was real.


"If terrorism acquires a safe haven again in Afghanistan that
will be of direct consequence to this country and to other
countries in the region," he said.


"We are not losing the war but we will not win it without renewed
and increased effort and that is why we are playing our part."


Howard told Australians to be prepared for casualties, saying
intelligence reports pointed to an increasing threat posed by the
insurgency.


The new elite troops, including Special Air Services soldiers and
commandos, would be sent to Uruzgan province in south-central
Afghanistan.


"Their role will be to enhance provincial security by disrupting
Taliban command and control supply routes and they will directly
support the Australian reconstruction task force," he said.


Australia already has some 550 soldiers in Afghanistan, including
about 370 with the reconstruction group. Its total military
commitment will reach about 950 troops by the middle of this year
and 1,000 next year, he said.


Some 48,000 US and NATO-led troops are operating in Afghanistan,
where 34 foreign soldiers have died since January.


Howard, a close ally of US President George W. Bush has also
contributed some 1,400 troops to the US-led coalition in Iraq and
said it was important Australia joined its allies to fight the
threat of terrorism.


His conservative government faces a tough bid for re-election
this year, with opinion polls showing that most Australians back
the opposition Labor Party's plan to pull the troops out of Iraq.


But Labor leader Kevin Rudd supported the new troop deployment to
Afghanistan, saying it was a breeding ground for terrorists and
Howard had withdrawn Australian troops too soon after the
invasion.


"What we've got there is Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda, the
original terrorists responsible for September 11," Rudd told
commercial radio.


"It's different to Iraq, which is primarily a civil war between
Sunni and Shia factions of Islam. And that's why we believe that
country (Iraq) primarily requires a political solution rather
than a military solution."

