

The United States on Tuesday is to file a formal WTO complaint
over widespread copyright piracy in China, a practice which US
companies say deprives them of billions of dollars each year.


The government said Monday it would also file a case at the World
Trade Organization accusing China of restricting distribution of
foreign music, films and books, further sharpening trade tensions
with the booming Asian giant.


"Piracy and counterfeiting levels in China remain unacceptably
high," US Trade Representative Susan Schwab told a news
conference, brandishing a fake Chinese DVD of the Ben Stiller hit
"Night at the Museum."


"I might note that the film I am holding here is not scheduled
for release in DVD form for almost two weeks, and I would note
the copy reads that it is 'copyright protected'," she said.


Despite pressure from the Democratic-led Congress to confront
China over its industrial policies, market access and currency
regime, Schwab said the administration remains committed to
dialogue with China, which has been accused of riding roughshod
over US commercial rights in its rapid rise to prosperity.


China has officially promised to clamp down, but fake DVDs,
software, luxury goods, books, auto parts, footwear and even
pharmaceuticals remain freely available across the country,
according to the US government.


The WTO process is expected to be lengthy. The two countries will
have 60 days to try to iron out their differences. If they do not
reach agreement, the United States will then have the right to
demand WTO arbitration.


If the US case were ultimately upheld by a settlement panel, the
United States could then gain the right to impose retaliatory
duties and tariffs on Chinese imports. Analysts expect the whole
process to take months.


The complaint was welcomed as "overdue" by Max Baucus, Democratic
chairman of the US Senate's powerful finance committee.


"Rampant and large-scale piracy and counterfeiting in China have
persisted too long, and China is not penalizing pirates and
counterfeiters," he said.


The Motion Picture Association of America said in a statement it
was a "welcome and logical next step" since US copyright
industries had lost 2.3 billion dollars to piracy in 2005 with
nine of 10 DVDs sold in China illegally.


The National Association of Manufacturers called on China to
remedy the US complaints "as soon as possible," and said the WTO
provided Washington and Beijing the right venue for recourse in
"a mature trade relationship."


The complaint over barriers to foreign media alleges that Chinese
distribution rules "hobble" cultural products, such as books and
Hollywood movies, from reaching the vast audience of the world's
most populous nation.


Schwab added that these products are also "favorite targets for
IPR (intellectual property rights) pirates," leaving legitimate
foreign entertainment shut out of China altogether.


Getting tough after years of quiet diplomacy, the United States
took China to the WTO in February in a complaint over industrial
subsidies. And in an unprecedented decision late last month, the
United States announced penalty tariffs on China to offset
government subsidies for a paper product.


US officials have repeatedly said they see WTO arbitration as the
natural evolution of an evolving commercial relationship, a
little over five years after China joined the referee of global
trade.


While launching its WTO actions, the US administration under
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has been pursuing a high-level
dialogue with Beijing on strategic economic matters, a process
that Schwab said would continue.


The US trade deficit with China ballooned to more than 200
billion dollars last year, a yawning imbalance explained in part
by US consumers' voracious appetite for cheap Chinese imports.


But many US lawmakers allege that Chinese government subsidies,
discrimination against foreign companies and a skewed exchange
rate are unfairly fueling the country's export machine.


According to a Congress-appointed panel, China's own data
estimates that counterfeit products account for 15 to 20 percent
of products made in the country, or eight percent of its 2.2
-trillion-dollar economy.


China last Friday tightened its rules on IPR theft, lowering the
threshold for "serious offenders" who will face up to seven years
in jail, state media said. The US government welcomed that move
but said it didn't go far enough.

