

Thailand on Tuesday extended a state of emergency in Muslim-
majority provinces, amid warnings that separatist unrest in the
region on the Malaysian border could spread to other parts of the
country.


Interior Minister Aree Wonariya said the controversial state of
emergency, which gives wide-ranging powers to security forces,
would be extended by another three months from April 20.


"The law is beneficial and has made it easier for officials to do
their work. It provides favourable conditions for official to
carry out investigations and to win cooperation from residents,"
he said.


Aree insisted that people living in the three affected provinces
of southern Thailand do not oppose the emergency powers, which
rights groups have harshly criticised as creating a climate of
impunity in the region.


Emergency rule gives security forces broad immunity from
prosecution, while giving them sweeping powers of search and
seizure. It also allows suspects to be detained for up to 30 days
without charge.


The region has also been under martial law since the military
seized power in Bangkok in a coup in September.


The announcement came as a senior intelligence official warned
that the separatist violence could escalate and spill into other
regions.


"The militants wanted to create violence, which will eventually
lead to the rejection of Bangkok's authority in the area,"
Veerasak Thipmonthien, a top official at the National
Intelligence Agency, told reporters.


"It's likely that there will be more attacks and that the
(rebels') operations will expand from the three southern
provinces," he said.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in Thailand's violence-
torn south since an insurgency broke out in January 2004,
including 10 fatalities on Monday alone.


Thailand's military-installed government has launched a raft of
peace measures, only to see the attacks escalate in the past six
months.


The attacks have also become more gruesome, including two
beheadings last month.

