

Malaysia's ruling coalition will win a tiny but key by-election
this week, analysts say, but a reduced majority will signal the
opposition are gaining ground.


Some 9,600 residents in the rural constituency of Machap in
western Malacca state will Thursday vote in the closely-watched
state assembly poll, called after the death of a ruling coalition
lawmaker.


The contest is between Lai Meng Chong, 56, fielded by the
Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA), part of Malaysia's ruling
coalition, and the opposition Democratic Action Party's (DAP)
Liou Chen Kuang, 33.


"We are expecting to win but the question is the majority.
Anything less than 3,000 votes would be disappointing," an MCA
party insider told AFP.


Analysts say it is unlikely that the opposition party will win
the seat because the ruling National Front coalition wields
greater influence over rural areas than the DAP, which campaigns
on issues appealing to urban voters.


Instead, the by-election will indicate how well Malaysia's
opposition parties are faring ahead of an early general election,
they say.


Malaysia must hold a general election by 2009, but opposition
parties say Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi will call a vote
before then to head off what they say is growing disenchantment
with his administration.


"DAP is not going to win, that's for sure. So the important thing
is how many votes it can get," said independent political analyst
James Wong.


"It will serve to indicate the trend leading up to the general
election."


Analysts are also watching the effectiveness of the pact between
the DAP and the People's Justice Party, or Parti Keadilan Rakyat,
which is campaigning for the DAP candidate, and whose advisor is
former deputy premier Anwar Ibrahim.


"We've been here from day one ... working out from DAP's
operations room. Anwar will be coming down to Machap on
Wednesday," Keadilan's information chief Tian Chua told AFP,
adding he expected a general election "any time soon."


Chua also said Keadilan had decided not to contest the Machap
poll to boost ties between the parties.


"It is for the unity of the opposition -- to work together for
the general election," he said.


The DAP, Keadilan and the hardline Pan-Malaysia Islamic Party
(PAS) joined to form the Alternative Front alliance in 1999 to
contest the general elections.


However, the alliance was weakened after the DAP, which is rooted
in the country's Chinese population, left in 2001 in disagreement
over PAS' plans to convert Malaysia into an Islamic state.


Both Keadilan and PAS made a poor showing in the 2004 general
elections, which delivered a landslide victory to Abdullah and
the National Front.


"It is time for both opposition parties to show strength and test
the ground for them to work closely amongst themselves," said
Mohammad Agus Yusoff, the head of the political science
department at the National University of Malaysia.


A second by-election is also in the cards after a local lawmaker
from the ruling coalition in western Selangor state died last
week.


Chua said Keadilan may contest the poll.

