

Chen Kai's journey from Beijing to Los Angeles has been a painful
one.


It has included years of indignities suffered under the
ritualized conformity of China's national sports programme.


As a member of China's national basketball team in the 1970s, he
was one of the country's biggest sporting heroes. But he was
uncomfortable with his status.


"I refused to accept the circumstances I was born into," Chen
said.


"It is a big risk to not be accepted into the conformity. I
refused to join something I hate. I kept telling myself I am not
going to become like the ones I despise. I made that decision and
it led me to freedom and happiness."


Chen is the first Chinese athlete to give a rare glimpse into the
secretive world of the China's elite athletic establishment.


"Do people know anything about its inner workings?" he asked.


"Do people know anything about Yao Ming's predecessors -- his
parent's generation of athletes during those unforgettable and
arduous years of the Cultural Revolution?"


The former officer in the People's Liberation Army and member of
the August First Team (China's military club) tells his story in
a book 'One in a Billion: Journey Toward Freedom - Story of a Pro
Basketball Player in China'.


Today he spends his time writing, running his website and raising
a family in Los Angeles with his wife -- a former American
exchange student whom he met in China.


"Why I remember so much is because of all the suffering," Chen
said. "When you are having a good time you don't remember it but
when you suffer you remember so much.


"I never experienced happiness when I was young. But I believed
true happiness existed, even if people told me it didn't. You
don't have to see other people worse off than you to be happy."


Because of his Taiwanese relatives and background, Chen's family
suffered discrimination during the tumultuous political period of
the Cultural Revolution.


His also endured the exile of his parents to Manchuria and the
death of his best friend, Xiao, who died after being cut from the
national team's track and field programme.


"I myself was on the verge of collapse many times," Chen said.
"But I willed myself against obstacles and eventually made it to
the top of the Chinese athletic establishment."


"When I realized what was happening to my parents, I asked myself
'am I going to go through this all my life?.' I felt I have to
make an effort on my own. Most Chinese are fatalistic. They wait
for fate to decend on them then accept it. The culture encourages
people to do that."


Chen and his siblings eventually moved to Manchuria to be with
their parents. By the time he was 15 years old, Chen had reached
6ft 6in tall.


One day a man spat at him.


"In the Manchuria area they treated me like a monster," Chen
said.


"People in China hold the view that if you are tall you must be
dumb. Eventually I had to make a decision whether I should beat
myself down to fit people's taste or be myself."


As the Cultural Revolution raged, sports was one of the few
pleasures still permitted and basketball provided a personal
escape.


"A lot of things were banned during the Cultural Revolution but
it was hard to ban sports as being bourgeois," Chen said.


"After Xiao's death my choices had to be clear. I either go his
way or my way. I had to not only survive but triumph. I feel
amazed at what I have done."


Chen has received criticism from mainland Chinese who castigate
him over his stand on human rights.


"If they attack me, then first they must see who I am. I am
Chinese," Chen stresses. "I tell people what the reality is. But
I also tell them about the possibility of being free."


Chen's search for freedom led him to Tianamen Square.


On April 4, 1976 he took part in the first anti-government
Tianamen Square protest for which he was punished by his athletic
bosses.


Chen hasn't been back to China for over 25 years but is
considering applying for a visa to visit during the 2008 Beijing
Olympics.


He also plans to have his book published in Chinese.


"I didn't write the book to impress myself. This book's value is
its truthfulness," he claimed.

