

Zersenay Tadesse recently made history by becoming the first
Eritrean to win a world title in any sport but the runner had
early dreams of success in another discipline rather than
athletics.


"I only started running, at least seriously, when I was 19.
Cycling was my first love," explained Tadesse who has won gold
medals at the World Road Running Championships and World Cross
Country Championships since October.


"I dreamed of being a cycling professional with one of the great
teams in Europe. I would have loved to have ridden in a big race
like the Tour de France but I soon realised that is not a
realistic possibility coming from Eritrea.


"However, those dreams have never completely gone away. Spending
a lot of time in Spain I see stories about cycling all the time
and I think back to when I was a teenager," the 25-year-old told
AFP.


Tadesse, who is based in Madrid for much of the year, admits that
luck has been on his side insofar as he grew up away from to
worst of the conflicts which have killed tens of thousands his
countrymen over the last four decades.


The region was at war to establish its independence from
neighbouring Ethiopia for 30 years until 1991 and, even after
Eritrea gained its independence in 1993, border disputes have
continued.


"My father had seven children but he was quite successful at
selling the things that grew on our farm," said Tadesse.


"We were not a rich family, but we were not poor either."


With a modicum of peace restored to most of the country in the
early 1990s, and the family's prosperity aided by his father's
business acumen, Tadesse was able to take up cycling.


"I won a number of cycling races in Eritrea. They were not over
the long distances you have in professional races in Europe, more
usually over 30 to 50 kilometres, mainly because we don't have so
many roads you can race on.


"But my successes at cycling suggested to some local athletics
people I might have good stamina and they invited me to compete
in a race. I won that race, and I did well in the following races
and I carried on running.


"I only had a few running races before I took part in a national
championship in 2001. I won that."


Zersenay Tadesse surprised many pundits by winning Eritrea's
first Olympic medal in 2004, picking up a bronze over 10,000
metres.


"The moment I crossed the line in Athens, I became Eritrea's most
famous sportsman," commented Tadesse. "Maybe I'm the most famous
person in the country outside of political circles, although
there are some famous singers as well."


Tadesse is diplomatic whenever the issue of Eritrean politics is
raised.


Eritrea's President Isias Afrewerki has jealously guarded his own
power, closing down criticial media outlets and, according to
many human rights groups, arresting many of his opponents.


However, the thousands of people who greeted Tadesse on his
return to the capital Asmara after his Olympic medal suggests he
is a serious rival in the popularity stakes.


His success in Athens was followed up by a silver medal at the
2005 World Cross Country Championships.


He finally climbed onto the top spot of the podium at the World
Road Running Championships in Hungary last October and then
struck gold again at the World Cross Country Championships in
Kenya last month.


Tadesse's next target will be to get into the world record books.


He takes a tilt at adding the half marathon world record to his
portfolio of honours in the Spanish town of Caceres on Sunday.

