

Fulham boss Chris Coleman is facing up to a dogfight for survival
in the English Premiership -- with the Cottagers fans turning
their fire on his troops.


Coleman told his charges to get ready for the battle of their
lives if they want to stay in the big time and keep the boo-boys
off their backs.


"When you are in a dogfight you have to fight like dogs. If it is
a gunfight you can't afford to go in with just a knife," the 36
-year-old Welshman said.


"It is only results that are important now and it doesn't matter
how we get them. I will take being booed for being boring or
whatever but we know we have good players. Now they have all got
to become scrappers as well.


"We've got to believe we can stay in the Premiership this season.
We've got to get the points we need and the players know full
well the position we are in."


Fulham lost 3-1 to visitors Manchester City at Craven Cottage on
Monday, their fifth defeat in a winless eight-match streak that
left them four points above the relegation zone.


Coleman and the Cottagers were booed as the players trudged off.


Fulham visit Reading on Sunday, and must also face Champions
League spot chasers Arsenal and Liverpool in thier remaining five
games.


"I don't think I have seen the players like this before. They are
devastated, gutted. They are only human and so are the
supporters," Coleman told reporters afterwards.


"You could see the loss of belief in the players' faces.


"They were edgy and nervous but we need somebody to step forward
and come up with something to get us a result. We can't just moan
about bad luck. Every team which has struggled has had their bad
luck and it is up to us to get over it."


Monday's third straight away win eased resurgent Manchester
City's relegation fears.


The result left City in 12th place and nine points clear of the
drop zone with six games remaining.


"I can't have sympathy for 'Cookie' Coleman even though he is a
great lad," Blues boss Stuart Pearce told reporters.


"We are in a competitive business and everyone is desperate to
win games down at the bottom.


"But I don't see any danger of relegation for Fulham. When you
see the interaction between the manager and the players you know
the spirit that they have.


"We need to finish the season strongly and I want the players to
ask themselves if they can improve.


"You are only as good as your last game as far as I am concerned
and I'll be getting into the players again later this week."


City, who host Liverpool on Sunday before travelling to Arsenal
three days later, caught out Fulham with some neat counter-
attacking.


Troubled but talented Blues midfielder Joey Barton, whose
disciplinary problems have probably prevented him from earning
more than his one England cap, blasted his shot past Finland
goalkeeper Antti Niemi in the 21st minute.


Barton then teed up American international DaMarcus Beasley 15
minutes later, the on-loan PSV Eindhoven midfielder scoring with
a powerful finish.


Former England striker Vassell struck his fourth goal of the
season in the 59th minute to make it 3-0.


Fulham's USA defender Carlos Bocanegra headed in a Sean Davis
corner in the 76th minute for his second goal in two games but it
was too little, too late.

