

The dollar was easier in cautious Asian trade Tuesday as players
remained cautious ahead of a Bank of Japan interest rate decision
and Friday's gathering of Group of Seven finance chiefs, dealers
said.


The dollar fell to 119.09 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 119.29
yen late Monday in New York.


The euro rose to 1.3379 dollars from 1.3354 but slipped to 159.31
yen after 159.33.


The Bank of Japan was set to wrap up a two-day monetary policy
meeting Tuesday but interest rates are widely expected to be held
at 0.5 percent after Japan's consumer prices fell for the first
time for 10 months in February.


Dealers said the market was keen to hear remarks from Bank of
Japan governor Toshihiko Fukui at a post-meeting news conference.


It was also looking ahead to a meeting in Washington of finance
ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven (G7)
nations on Friday.


"The Europeans are still concerned about the strength of the euro
against the yen and we cannot rule out the possibility that the
EU members may speak out about it ahead of the G7 meeting," said
Hidenori Kato, head of foreign exchange sales and trading at
Societe Generale.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said Tuesday that the agenda
for this Friday's meeting in Washington had not yet been decided.


Omi said last week that the G7 ministers would discuss currencies
in general but would not focus in particular on the weakness of
the yen.


Market players will also be on the lookout for the minutes from
the March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on
Wednesday for clues on the direction of US monetary policy,
dealers said.


In US trade overnight, the dollar extended gains as players there
returned from a long Easter weekend, cheered by Friday's strong
US jobs data.


The government said 180,000 new jobs were created in March, much
more than anticipated, but many participants had been unable to
trade fully on the news with many financial markets shut on Good
Friday.

