

Chinese leaders' praise for Hong Kong leader Donald Tsang on his
reappointment as chief executive contains veiled warnings for the
future, observers said Tuesday.


Tsang won a second term in a vote last month by an election
committee of 800 elites who are mostly loyal to Beijing.


In a political atmosphere where symbols and inferences can mean
as much as spoken words, comments from President Hu Jintao and
Premier Wen Jiabao at Tsang's reappointment ceremony in Beijing
Monday have been interpreted as veiled warnings to the former
British colony.


The former civil service chief was first chosen in 2005 to
complete the truncated second term of former leader Tung Chee-
hwa, who resigned early citing poor health.


At a ceremony later in the afternoon, Tsang was greeted by Hu at
the Zhongnanhai leaders' complex and praised for his work so far.


Hu also made an unprecedented reference to a long-raging debate
over the introduction of universal suffrage in Hong Kong.


"Developing the economy, improving livelihoods and advancing
democracy in a gradual and orderly manner; maintaining Hong
Kong's prosperity, stability and harmony are the common wishes of
Hong Kong citizens as well as the fundamental interests of Hong
Kong people from all walks of life," Hu told Tsang.


While local media interpreted Hu's words as a boost for
reformists who have long fought for full democracy, analysts
urged caution.


"You have to read between the lines," said Joseph Cheng,
professor of political science at Hong Kong City University.


Hong Kong's post-colonial constitution enshrines a move to
universal suffrage, but doesn't state how or when it should
happen.


Reformists want a swift change and have accused the China-backed
government of dragging its feet.


The feud has dogged Hong Kong politics since the territory was
handed back to China in 1997 and Tsang promised ahead of his re-
selection that he would settle the matter once and for all.


"Of course the central leadership is going to say encouraging
things about universal suffrage because if it doesn't show
progress on this to the rest of the world -- which is waiting for
it to happen -- then it will lose face," Cheng said.


"The central leadership is happy for universal suffrage to be
established so long as it keeps control of the process," he
added.


Chinese leaders' gestures are keenly watched for signals into the
thinking of the largely secret communist power structure.


A handshake from Hu during a meeting with then civil service head
Tsang in 2004 was interpreted as a sign that he had been chosen
as successor to Tung, whose low opinion ratings were being seen
as a handicap to his rule. Tung resigned a few months later.


In another encounter that has been the subject of keen
interpretation, Premier Wen read to Tsang an extract from the
Chinese philosopher Confucius' "Analects," a collection of life
guides.


"Benevolence is the responsibility he has taken upon himself: is
it not heavy? Only after his death does it end: is it not long?"
Wen read.


The passage has been generally interpreted as a call for Tsang to
devote his life to the service of Hong Kong, but pro-democrats
see dire warnings in the words.


"I fear it meant Tsang should try his best to introduce Beijing's
most unpopular policies," Democratic Party lawmaker Albert Ho
told the South China Morning Post newspaper.


Hong Kong University politics lecturer WM Lam, said the text
could be interpreted several ways.


"It could be a recognition of the hope the Chinese leaders have
in Tsang -- that they want him to continue until he dies -- or it
could mean that they are putting great expectations onto his
shoulders," Lam told AFP.

