

The last surviving lepers in a Taiwanese sanatorium built to
isolate them from the outside world are fighting plans by
developers to demolish their home for a transport depot.


Lin Chueh, 88, quickly put on her sunglasses when room-mate Lan
Tsai-yun, 74, turned on the light in the home they share with
three other women, a wooden structure built 70 years ago on a
hill outside the capital Taipei.


"Light makes my eyes uncomfortable," Lin said, her truncated
hands wiping away the tears falling down her disfigured cheeks.


Lin and Lan are among the few dozen elderly lepers still living
in the "Lo Sheng" sanatorium which developers, supported by the
local community, want to knock down to build a subway maintenance
depot in its place.


They and 43 others are refusing to move into an eight-storey
building a few hundred metres (yards) away built by the
government for the sanatorium's 305 lepers at a cost of more than
one billion dollars (30.3 million US).


"After all, I've stayed here for 67 years. Every tree and every
flower you see here were grown by us personally. No, I don't want
to move," Lin said.


"Here is our home, but over there the new one is simply a
hospital," they said in chorus.


A total 174 patients have moved into the new building. "The great
majority of them have felt very satisfied," said Lin Jui-yin, a
member of staff.


The others have either been taken home by their families or are
living in a temporary facility pending a transfer.


The sanatorium was built in 1932 by the Japanese who then ruled
Taiwan. It once housed up to 1,000 leprosy patients who were
forcibly incarcerated under a controversial isolation regime.


Japan has offered compensation for those who were isolated
against their will, but most have since died and those who remain
are in their 70s or older.


Lin, who was diagnosed with leprosy at the age of 21, was sent to
the leper colony where both her hands were amputated before the
condition was brought under control.


Lan was also sent to Lo Sheng when she was 21. Her nerves are
damaged, her hands and feet disfigured by leprosy, a bacterial
illness that nowadays can be treated with a sustained cocktail of
antibiotics.


The sanatorium had been all but ignored for decades until a few
weeks ago, when local support for a subway line under
construction turned into anger at what Hsinchuang residents said
were unnecessary delays due to the refusal of the lepers to move
out.


Thousands took to the streets urging the government immediately
to demolish most of the sanatorium's remaining 13-hectare
(32-acre) facilities, after some 17 hectares had already been
taken away.


The demonstrators say further delays would cost another three
billion Taiwan dollars, on top of the planned 175 billion. "This
is unfair to Hsinchuang residents," said Tsai Chia-fu, a
legislator from the city.


Tsai urged the 45 lepers and their backers -- mainly university
students -- not to hinder the project, meant to benefit
Hsinchuang's 1.2 million people as well as the cities of Sanchun
and Luchou.


The lepers' supporters say the residents have been misled and
that some local government chiefs have financial interests in the
project.


Citing a government report, the students say that up to 90
percent of the premises could be preserved in a proposal that
would cost only an additional 290 million dollars and result in a
four-month delay.


The students have been patrolling the sanatorium to prevent its
demolition after the Taipei county government made public its
intention to demolish the complex effective from April 16.


Having already been the victims of humiliation and
discrimination, "the lepers must not be sent again to another
place they don't like," said Chung Sheng- syong, from National
Taiwan University.

