

The death toll from last week's earthquake and tsunami in the
Solomon Islands has risen to 40, officials said Tuesday, but some
remote areas are still waiting for aid to reach them.


The National Disaster Management Office revised the toll upward
after the discovery of a two-year-old boy's body.


Separately, Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare announced that
Friday would be a day of mourning following last Monday's
8.0-magnitude quake and tsunami which smashed into town and
villages in the west of the improverished South Pacific
archipelago.


Aid continued to pour into the Solomon Islands during the Easter
weekend, with new supplies arriving from Australia, New Zealand,
the French territory of New Caledonia and Japan.


But New Zealand Defence Minister Phil Goff, who returned late
Monday from a 24 hour visit, said some isolated areas were still
to receive food, water and other emergency supplies.


Up to 7,000 people were left homeless by the disaster and many
more living in low-lying areas are afraid to return home from
hill camps because of fears of another tsunami.


"The estimate was that 80 percent of the communities have been
contacted and have been receiving relief supplies, and the other
20 percent they hope to get to over the next three days," Goff
told Radio New Zealand.


He said he was told by the disaster management committee that 24
people were still reported to be missing.


Five boats and helicopters are being used to ferry supplies --
including water purifying tablets and equipment, rice, and tinned
fish -- to outlying islands from the Western Province hub of
Gizo.


A relief team has visited the village of Sasamunga on the south
coast of Choiseul province following complaints that aid was
being concentrated in the Western Province.


The tsunami swept about 500 metres inland at Sasamunga, leaving
most of the village destroyed and at least four people dead.


A Methodist church leader in Sasamunga, Reverend Armstrong
Pitakaji, said his area had been ignored immediately after the
disaster in what he called an "injustice" to the survivors.


In Gizo, a Red Cross official said threats of disease appeared to
be under control but there were many cases of cuts becoming
infected.


The World Bank said Tuesday it would send a team to the Solomon
Islands to assess damage to infrastructure.


The area relies heavily on sea transport and many wharves and
jetties have been destroyed or damaged, along with roads in more
populated areas.


Australia announced it would send a third air force cargo plane
Wednesday carrying relief supplies including sleeping bags,
tents, cooking utensils and tools.

