

Sidney Crosby isn't sure whether can grow a playoff beard but
he's willing to give it his best shot.


"Playoff beard? I made an attempt in junior once. Ended up as a
moustache, that's all I could get," said the 19-year-old Crosby
of the tradition that hockey players embark on at the beginning
of each post-season. "I am able to get a little more on my face
now. We will see how it pans out."


Crosby, who will be competing in his first National Hockey League
playoffs, will draw on experiences from the Canadian juniors and
the junior worlds as his youthful Pittsburgh Penguins seek their
first Stanley Cup since 1992.


"I am not going to lie and say I know exactly what to expect,"
said Crosby who is the youngest regular season scoring champion
in history with 36 goals and 120 points.


Even the great Wayne Gretzky (20 years, three months) was older
when he won his first scoring title.


"I am going to try to do the same thing that's made me successful
in the season and prepare myself for more physical play," Crosby
said.


"You need to be sharp because you are not going to get as many
scoring chances and you want to make sure you take advantage of
the ones you get."


Crosby is also the first teenager in North American major
professional sports team history to win a scoring title.


His Penguins open their playoff campaign against the Ottawa
Senators in one of four games on Wednesday.


Other Wednesday matches include: Vancouver vs. Dallas, Nashville
vs. San Jose and Anaheim vs. Minnesota.


New Jersey opens their series against Tampa Bay on Thursday in a
matchup that features plenty of playoff experience.


Tampa Bay has 10 players on their roster left over from the 2004
Stanley Cup champs and New Jersey has 11 players from the 2003
championship team.


The top seeded Buffalo Sabres head into their opening-round
against the New York Islanders with arguably the best coach in
the league, Lindy Ruff, and a far healthier lineup than last year
when four of their top six defencemen were hurt.


Ruff is the longest tenured coach in the league as he is in his
ninth consecutive season as head coach with the Sabres. Ruff also
played 13 NHL seasons with Buffalo and the New York Rangers.


The Rangers face Atlanta, marking the first time in 13 years that
all three New York state teams (Islanders, Rangers, Sabres) made
it to the playoffs.


In another odd twist, both 2006 finalists (Edmonton and Carolina)
failed to make the post-season and are looking at rebuilding
their rosters in the offseason.


As the eighth seed in the west, Calgary is hoping to replace the
Oilers as this year's Cinderella team. Edmonton defied the odds
last year by sneaking into the playoffs as the last seed and then
reaching the final before losing to Carolina.


With solid goaltending in Miika Kiprusoff and one of the top
forward lines in the league, anchored by Jarome Iginla and
Daymond Langkow, Calgary is the club everyone fears.


Nashville is hoping to ride the Forsberg factor as far as they
can go. The Predators have gone 12-6-5 since acquiring Swedish
superstar Peter Forsberg in February.


Part of Forsberg's appeal is that he is able to raise the level
of the players around him. His return to Team Sweden mid-way
through the 2006 Turin Winter Olympics was the single-biggest
factor in Sweden winning the gold medal.


The Anaheim/Minnesota series is a repeat of the 2003 semi-final
when the Ducks swept the Wild to reach the finals.

