

The United States warned Tuesday it would be difficult to meet
the first key deadline this weekend of a breakthrough deal with
North Korea designed to dismantle its nuclear weapons programme.


The communist state had agreed to shut down a nuclear site by
Saturday in exchange for badly needed fuel oil but has refused to
budge until it receives 25 million dollars in foreign funds that
had been frozen under US sanctions.


Christopher Hill, the chief US envoy on North Korea, acknowledged
it would be difficult to meet the deadline but downplayed its
significance, saying the two sides were still headed in the right
direction.


He was speaking amid a flurry of diplomacy, with the nuclear
issue on the agenda both of US officials visiting Pyongyang and
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao in South Korea.


"Obviously every day this banking matter holds us up, and it
makes it more difficult to meet the precise deadline," Hill said
in Tokyo.


The United States has agreed to unblock the cash at a Macau bank
which was blacklisted amid allegations that North Korea was
engaged in money-laundering and counterfeiting.


But US authorities have struggled to find a way to get the assets
back to Pyongyang, with banks fearing the money would sully their
reputations.


"We're working very hard, over this weekend and these two days,
to try to finalise this matter of Macau, which frankly has held
up the implementation of the first set of obligations," Hill told
reporters.


Japanese officials voiced even stronger doubts that North Korea
would meet the deadline set by the February 13 deal.


"We are getting into a situation where it's extremely difficult
to do it within the 60 days as agreed," Japan's Foreign Minister
Taro Aso said in parliament.


US President George W. Bush's administration has promoted the
North Korea deal as a foreign policy success amid deep public
disenchantment with the war in Iraq.


Meanwhile New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson led a US team
to North Korea, officially to secure the remains of US troops
killed in the Korean War but also discussing the nuclear
showdown.


Richardson, a Democratic candidate who is seeking to succeed
Bush, said he had "secured assurances" that the North would turn
over the remains of six US soldiers.


"This is a very positive gesture on the part of the North Korean
government," Richardson said in a statement.


"Hopefully it will help heal the wounds from the Korean War and
start a process to bring closure to the thousands of American
families awaiting word of their loved ones who perished," he
said.


Hill, who heads to Seoul later Tuesday and then to Beijing, said
he would meet in the South Korean capital with Richardson to
assess the next move.


Hill said there was something "positive coming out of Pyongyang,"
citing reports that North Korea was ready to accept UN nuclear
inspectors as soon as it received the money from Macau's Banco
Delta Asia (BDA).


"But they also made clear they want to see the BDA matter
finalized. And that's what we're trying to work on," he said
after talks with Japan's Vice Foreign Minister Shotaro Yachi.


Japan has taken the hardest line in the six-nation talks, which
group it with China, the two Koreas, Russia and the United
States, on dismantling the North's nuclear weapons drive.


On Tuesday, it extended sweeping sanctions against North Korea
for another six months to try to press Pyongyang to give ground
in an emotionally charged row over its past kidnappings of
Japanese nationals.


But South Korea, which has supported a more conciliatory
approach, was due Tuesday to hold talks with the North on
expanding a programme of reunions for long-separated families and
on the fate of hundreds of abductees and prisoners of war whom
Seoul says are still being detained.


Separately, China's Wen landed in Seoul for talks that will focus
on North Korea as well as trade. Beijing is Pyongyang's closest
ally and is host of the six- nation forum.

