

Charlton wasted the chance to bolster their Premiership survival
hopes as they were held to a humdrum 0-0 draw by Reading on
Monday.


A scrappy, edgy encounter never seriously threatened to catch
alight and although Alan Pardew's side inched a point clear of
the bottom three, he will still consider this a missed
opportunity.


But the Addicks manager should be grateful for small mercies.
Reading created the best chances in a generally uneventful
evening and might have inflicted a damaging defeat with cooller
heads in front of goal.


As it is, Charlton's tricky visit to UEFA Cup hopefuls Everton on
Sunday assumes even greater importance as the race to avoid
relegation gathers pace.


Last summer, there would have been short odds on this being a
pivotal tussle, although few would have predicted the endangered
species being Charlton. But Reading have made light work of their
first Premiership season and their safety was ensured long ago.


Not so, their hosts. The south Londoners might have entered this
game on the cusp of a revival but the perky form of relegation
rivals West Ham made victory essential.


The Valley crowd did its best to remind their players of the
significance of the occasion by cranking up the decibels, helped
in part by an extraordinarily kitsch Freddy Mercury impersonator
who paraded his talents on the pitch before kick-off.


Charlton seemed inspired by the Killer Queen. They started well,
up-tempo and urgent, and might have snatched the lead within five
minutes. Darren Ambrose's free-kick from the right touchline was
angled expertly onto the head of Talal El Karkouri, who shuddered
the crossbar with a thumping effort.


That whipped up the crowd still further, although the atmosphere
began to corrode the players' judgement. A crude hack by
Alexandre Song on Steve Sidwell in the 15th minute threatened to
spark a mass brawl before Graham Poll, the referee, intervened.
Song was booked for his troubles.


But frayed tempers were not the only disturbance to Charlton's
rhythm. They were forced to withdraw the injured Hermann
Hreidarsson after 24 minutes and when Marcus Bent limped off
after him moments later, Pardew must have thought his luck was
out.


Reading duly took advantage of Charlton's wobbles and began to
exert control. Chances remained at a premium, although Korean
Seol Ki-Hyeon almost struck a spectacular blow when he jinked
through three tackles and unleashed a fizzing low drive, forcing
a sprawling save from Scott Carson.


Charlton needed the interval to clear their heads and refresh
their bodies. Their initial adrenaline had been drained and
although Darren Bent wasted a rare chance early in the second
half, Reading continued to set the pace.


Nicky Shorey - exemplary all night at left-back - saw a curling
free-kick deflected over the bar by Song and then swung a 25-yard
drive fractionally wide of the right-hand post.


Reading were inching nearer a breakthrough and there were gasps
all around the stadium on the hour when Stephen Hunt picked out
the unmarked Sidwell at the edge of the area, but the
midfielder's shot skidded just wide.


Pardew dispatched Kevin Lisbie from the bench in a bid to boost
his side's firepower but it was Reading who finished the stronger
and Hunt almost snatched a late winner when he headed wide from
Ulises De La Cruz's centre.

