

A bidding war has erupted over the sale of Australian retail
giant Coles, with US private equity group Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
(KKR) set to boost its offer to acquire the firm, Coles said
Tuesday,


KKR said it was still interested in taking over the country's
second largest retail chain after Australian conglomerate
Wesfarmers last week made a 19.7 billion dollar (16.1 billion US)
offer for the chain, Coles said.


Coles board last year rejected KKR's 18.2 billion dollar bid as
being too low, scuppering what would have been Australia's
biggest ever corporate takeover.


Coles Ltd chairman Rick Allert said the KKR-led consortium had
indicated it was confident of submitting a price equal to, or
above the 16.47 dollars per share price offered by Wesfarmers in
order to acquire 100 percent of the firm.


"The board welcomes the participation of another major consortium
interested in a whole-of-company bid as contributing to a
competitive ownership review process and therefore being in the
best interests of shareholders," he said.


Allert said KKR and its partners were ready to begin a due
diligence review of the company as soon as an agreement relating
to process protocols and confidentiality had been reached.


Coles directors warned shareholders on Monday not to accept
Wesfarmers' takeover bid until the retailer's board had had time
to fully consider it.


The group was committed to running a "fully competitive process
in evaluating ownership alternatives in order to maximise
shareholder value for Coles shareholders," the retailer said in a
statement Monday.


"Until such time as Coles' ownership review has been completed
and the Coles board has made a recommendation to shareholders,
Coles shareholders are advised not to sell, or grant economic or
voting interests over, their shares."


Investors had been hoping for a bidding war for Coles amid
reports that the nation's largest retailer Woolworths was
interested in acquiring some of Coles' businesses, while UK
retailer Tesco was also said to be interested.


Coles shares ended the day up 0.36 dollars at a record 17.33,
with the intraday high of 17.42 also hitting a new record.
Woolworths advanced 0.34 to 27.98 and Wesfarmers added 0.02 to
39.14.

