

Nepal's Maoists were under renewed pressure Monday to put an end
to their violent practices, the day after five former rebels were
sworn into the Himalayan nation's new interim government.


Although Sunday's cabinet swearing-in ceremony was greeted as a
much-needed boost for a fragile peace process, there were also
reminders of the tough work ahead for the country to turn the
page on a decade of civil war.


"Nepal's people and mainstream political parties will now be
watching the Maoists behaviour very closely," said Lokraj Baral,
a political science professor from Nepal's Tribhuvan University.


"The Maoists still need to improve their behaviour," he said,
referring to ongoing complaints of kidnappings, beatings,
intimidation and extortion by Maoist members.


After fighting for ten years to impose a communist republic on
the Hindu- majority kingdom in a war that left at least 13,000
people dead, the rebels signed up for peace in November last
year.


Their entry into government came after they registered their
weapons and fighters under United Nations supervision. They also
vowed that fighting was over and have pledged to roll back their
parallel government structures.


"The nation has issued a sigh of relief, but it remains to be
seen how the new government will function," said Kapil Shrestha,
another prominent political analyst and academic.


"With their entry into government, the Maoists now have no excuse
for indulging in violence and intimidation," he said.


According to Ian Martin, the United Nation's chief representative
to Nepal's peace process, "the challenges ahead cannot be
overemphasised" as the cabinet attempts to steer the country to
elections that will decide on the future of the monarchy.


"Effective law enforcement that respects international standards,
accountability for violations of citizens' rights, and ending
breaches of the commitments under the comprehensive peace
agreement will be critical elements for success in the coming
months," Martin said in a statement.


The Maoists still feature on Washington's list of foreign
"terrorist" organisations, and the US ambassador to Kathmandu
warned mainstream political leaders last week that it was too
early to allow them into government.


"The Maoists must now be held fully accountable for their
actions. They must meet their commitments and at last join the
mainstream as a non-violent political party," the embassy said in
a statement after Sunday's ceremony.


The mood on the streets of Kathmandu and in the press, however,
was more upbeat.


The Himalayan Times hailed a "new era" for Nepal, while the
Kathmandu Post headlined its front page with "Nation takes a
leap."


"The Maoists joining the government is a matter of joy for all
Nepalis," said Kanchho Surkheti, a 40-year-old shoemaker with a
small shop in the centre of Kathmandu.


"It's good that the Maoists have been given a chance to help run
the country, as there have been several unsuccessful governments
in the past."


People were also mulling over the future of the monarchy and King
Gyanendra, discredited by his attempted use of dictatorial powers
to crush the Maoist rebellion before the peace deal but still
viewed by many loyalists as a Hindu deity.


The new government has pledged to hold nationwide elections on
June 20 for a body that will rewrite Nepal's constitution
permanently and also decide the future, of any, for the throne.


"Now it's up to the people to decide on the monarchy through the
polls," said Mahaendra Prasad Neupane, a tea shop owner in
Kathmandu.


"The Maoists and political parties have to make an environment in
which free and fair elections can be held."

