

Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki will lead a delegation of
ministers and members of parliament to Japan and South Korea next
week to sign economic agreements, a Shiite MP said on Monday.


"The prime minister will sign trade pacts in the oil and
electricity sectors, as well as signing a loan agreement with
Japan," Sami al-Askari, an MP considered close to the prime
minister, told AFP.


Maliki will visit the two countries from April 8 to 13, he said,
in what will be the embattled prime minister's first Asian tour
since taking office.


The Iraqi premier is expected to sign a 700 million dollar loan
agreement with Japan to help the war-torn country improve crude
oil output and power generation.


The 40-year loan is being offered through the state-funded Japan
Bank for International Cooperation.


The loan is designed to finance the construction of pipelines in
the southern Iraqi city of Basra and improve power transmission
facilities across the nation.


The loan is part of financial assistance to Iraq announced by
Tokyo in 2003.


Japan, a key donor to Iraq, has offered six billion dollars in
debt waivers and 1.5 billion dollars in aid grants to Baghdad.


Tokyo, which like Seoul, has troops in war-torn Iraq in support
of US-led forces, recently decided to extend an air force mission
by two years.


The Japanese mission flies people and supplies into Iraq on
behalf of the US-led forces and the United Nations.


But Japan last year withdrew its 600 ground troops from Iraq
following a reconstruction mission that marked the first time
since World War II that Japan had sent troops to a country where
fighting was underway.


The troops were based in southern Iraq's Muthanna province and
helped set up water supply projects before they returned home in
July.


Despite their withdrawal, Japan maintained the air force mission,
which includes some 210 personnel based in Kuwait.


South Korea has 2,300 troops in Iraq but has said it will
withdraw them by the end of 2007.


In 2004, Seoul sent around 3,500 troops to Iraq, the third
largest foreign contingent after the United States and Britain.
The size of the force has been progressively cut amid domestic
opposition to the deployment.

