

Fresh clashes in southern Afghanistan left three policemen and at
least 13 Taliban dead while a man was killed Monday when farmers
tried to stop police destroying their opium crops, officials
said.


Taliban fighters stormed a police checkpoint on a key road
between the southern capital Kandahar and the town of Spin
Boldak, on the Pakistani border, in the early hours of Monday
morning, police said.


"Three police were killed and two wounded," Kandahar province
police chief Ismatullah Alizai. "There have been casualties to
the Taliban side as well but I cannot confirm the exact figures."


Six more Taliban were killed Sunday in an Afghan and NATO
military sweep of the Zahri district in Kandahar province, the
birthplace of the militant Taliban in the early 1990s, he said.


Also Sunday, warplanes from NATO's International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF) bombed a house used by Taliban militants
in the province of Zabul, a district commander told AFP.


Seven Taliban were killed, the commander named only Obaidullah
said.


Exchanges of gunfire erupted between opium farmers and police in
three districts in eastern Nangarhar province Monday, officials
said.


Six locals and seven policemen were wounded, provincial police
spokesman Ghafour Khan said.


The governor of one of the districts, Charparhar, said one person
was also killed in the fighting.


Khan said police had also arrested 20 people for encouraging the
farmers to stand up to counter-narcotics police.


Afghanistan produces more than 90 percent of the world's opium
and the government is trying to slash production, with
international help, by destroying opium fields and getting
farmers to plant other crops.


President Hamid Karzai and other officials say the drugs trade is
funding the Taliban-led insurgency.


In another attack, militants tied up the overnight caretaker of a
boys' secondary school in southeastern Khost province and planted
time bombs that caused heavy damage early Monday, police official
Wazir Badshah said.


The school for 1,200 boys was attacked three other times in the
past year and a half. Each time it has been rebuilt by the
government and a provincial reconstruction team run by the
foreign military, he said.


There was a rash of attacks on schools last year, with many of
them burnt and around 44 teachers killed in 12 months. The
Taliban movement was said to be responsible. The attacks have
dropped off in recent months.

