

World oil prices rose on Monday, trading at seven-month highs
above 68 dollars a barrel in London, on supply concerns caused by
the Britain-Iran sailor crisis, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May rose 48
cents to 68.58 dollars in electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained one cent to 65.88 dollars in electronic
deals before the official open of the US market.


"Prices have surged in recent days as relations between Iran and
the West have deteriorated," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


Iranian state television said Monday that all 15 British sailors
and marines detained by Iran late last month have now "confessed"
to illegally entering its territorial waters. Britain insists the
sailors were in Iraqi waters when captured.


Iran is the world's fourth biggest producer of crude oil and some
analysts believe there is a risk that the Islamic Republic could
move to disrupt its oil exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


Last week Brent crude reached 69.14 dollars a barrel -- the
highest level since September 4, 2006 -- on the Iran crisis.


On Monday the market was also tracking events in Nigeria, where a
British oil worker was kidnapped over the weekend, an industry
source said.


A spokesman for Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that London
was aware of an incident in which a British national was
abducted.


"Nigeria, on top of Iran, on top of relatively tight market
fundamentals (of supply and demand), provides plenty of market-
moving news," said Victor Shum, senior principal at Purvin and
Gertz.


The company which manages the offshore rig he was seized from
said on Monday direct negotiations are taking place with the
group which abducted the oil worker.


If Iran released the British personnel, prices could immediately
drop "a few dollars" but further escalation of the war of words
between the two countries could provide plenty of room for
speculators, Shum added.

