

China's central bank said Monday it would keep the nation's
currency, the yuan, stable "at a reasonable level" and allow
market forces to play a fundamental role in setting the exchange
rate.


The People's Bank of China said in its first-quarter monetary
policy committee meeting statement that it will also "reasonably"
control the growth of money, credit and investment.


The wording of the statement, published on its website, was
nearly identical to that issued in the fourth quarter of last
year.


"We will further improve the managed floating exchange rate
system to make market demand-and-supply play a fundamental role
in the yuan exchange rate formation and keep the yuan exchange
rate basically stable at a reasonable and balanced level," it
said.


The central bank made no specific references to future policy
actions, saying only that it will "reasonably control the growth
of investment" and "reasonably control the growth of money and
credit."


The bank also said that it will strengthen liquidity management
and seek price stability.


The central bank would continue a prudent monetary policy and
should "make the monetary policy more forward-looking, scientific
and effective, and maintain price stability," the report said.


It said that China's economic structure is "not reasonable," a
reference to imbalances stemming from the over-reliance on
investment and exports.


"The current economic situation is generally good but still faces
an unreasonable structure and an international payments
imbalance," it said.


In a review of its recent work, the central bank said it "has
been using a combination of monetary policy tools to enhance
liquidity management, steadily pushed forward interest rate
reform and increased exchange rate flexibility."


The central bank said it should "continue to strengthen and
improve macroeconomic controls, further enhance the coordination
of monetary policy with fiscal, industrial, trade, finance
supervising and other policies".


The central bank has raised the commercial bank reserve
requirement twice already this year and interest rates once in
actions designed to keep money and credit growth from any undue
pace of expansion.

