

Hillary Clinton led the pack of Democratic presidential hopefuls
Monday after she obliterated fundraising records by raking in 26
million dollars so far this year.


The US Senator from New York also stuffed her White House
campaign war chest with 10 million more from her Senate account.


In a daunting challenge to her rivals in what is tipped to be the
most expensive US election campaign ever, the New York Democrat
smashed previous marks for first-quarter fundraising and total
receipts.


Clinton's delighted campaign managers were first to announce
results of a frenzied fundraising drive up to an accounting
deadline Saturday, which saw the hopefuls for 2008 criss-cross
the country.


Fellow Democrat John Edwards also broke records, raising more
than 14 million dollars, nearly double his take in the
corresponding period ahead of the 2004 election, his campaign
said.


There was no immediate word from another key Democrat, Senator
Barack Obama, or top Republicans on figures seen as a barometer
of the nascent 2008 race, which some experts predict will be
America's first billion-dollar election.


Some reports said Obama also raised over 20 million dollars, a
result that, if confirmed, would cement his place as Clinton's
top nationwide challenger.


Clinton's 26-million-dollar take was not far off the 30.9 million
dollars raised by all Democratic and Republican candidates in the
first quarter of 2003, according to the nonpartisan Campaign
Finance Institute.


Previously, the most money ever declared after the first quarter
of a year preceding a presidential year was 13.5 million dollars
by former Republican senator Phil Gramm, in 1995, but he quickly
faded from the 1996 race.


Gramm's total included 4.8 million dollars transferred from his
Senate account.


For the 2000 race, former vice president Al Gore collected 8.9
million dollars in the first quarter of 1999.


"I am proud to say we have dramatically exceeded our goals and
expectations ... we have raised 26 million dollars," Clinton's
campaign manager Patti Solis Doyle told reporters in a conference
call.


Clinton campaign chairman Terry McAuliffe, a veteran Democratic
fundraiser, added: "This is the most successful fundraising
quarter that I have ever been part of."


Suggesting Clinton had broad appeal, the campaign said 80 percent
of the donations were for 100 dollars or less, and 4.2 million
dollars were raised on the Internet. A total of 50,000 donors was
recorded in all 50 US states.


Donors are legally limited to total contributions not exceeding
2,300 dollars, divided between the party nominating process and
the general election campaign ahead of the November 2008
presidential poll.


Obama's campaign said on Saturday that their candidate had taken
108,095 donations from more than 85,000 people.


On the Republican side, totals of front-runner former New York
mayor Rudolph Giuliani will be closely watched along with those
of challengers Senator John McCain and former Massachusetts
governor Mitt Romney.


Money is often dubbed the "mother's milk" of US politics but the
2008 election is putting a higher premium on the early cash grab.


Next year could effectively see two national elections -- a
sprint towards nominating contests, many squeezed into January
and February, then a long haul to the Republican-Democrat head-
to-head in November.


Candidates need to bankroll multiple cross-country charter
flights, armies of consultants and early nationwide television
advertising blitzes.


Among long-shot candidates, Joseph Biden told Fox television
network he expected to pull in around three million dollars,
while his fellow Democratic senator, Chris Dodd, had raised about
four million, Politico.com reported.


New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson had six million dollars in
his war chest, according to The New York Times.

