

Gunmen in Nigeria's southern Bayelsa State on Monday kidnapped
two Lebanese nationals, two days after a British oil worker was
seized from an offshire rig, national police spokesman Haz Iwendi
said.


"It is true that the two Lebanese nationals were kidnapped this
morning in Bayelsa State," Iwendi told AFP by telephone without
giving details.


Industry sources told AFP that the foreigners, who were working
for Setraco, a Nigerian construction firm, were abducted around
7:00 a.m. (0600 GMT) in Yenagoa, the state capital.


They said the kidnap was likely to have been carried out by
members of a local community angry at the company over provision
of infrastructure.


The identities of the Lebanese and the circumstances surrounding
their kidnap are still unknown.


The abduction took place barely 48 hours after a British oil
worker was kidnapped from an offshore rig in the western Niger
Delta, which was also the target of a raid last year.


The company that manages the rig said Monday direct negotiations
were taking place with the group which abducted Scot Gordon Gray.


A spokesman for Dolphin Drilling, the Scottish company which
manages the rig, told AFP that the negotiations were happening
through Nigerian oil company Peak, its operator.


"We know that they have made contact with the abductors and are
working to secure a release," he added.


"They have spoken directly to the man abducted by phone and I
believe they are now face-to-face."


He added that he did not know which group had abducted the man,
although an industry source has claimed it was local people.


Setraco (Nigeria) Limited was established 30 years ago as an
engineering construction company specialising in building
highways, roads, bridges and other infrastructure.


Since the start of this year, about 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in Nigeria, as many as were abducted during the whole
of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, were
abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom money
and armed groups with a political agenda.


Groups such as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger
Delta (MEND), which recently held two Italian hostages for three
months, say they are seeking a fairer distribution of Nigeria's
oil revenues.


The last two hostages taken in southern Nigeria, an Indian and a
Lebanese, were released March 25 after a few days in captivity.


But there is still no news of a Dutch man kidnapped March 23 from
Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, in the southern Rivers
State, despite the deployment of military search parties to look
for him.


And two Chinese nationals abducted on March 17 in the
southeastern state of Anambra also remain missing.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
officials.

