

Iran said on Monday all 15 British sailors it detained last month
had confessed to illegally entering its waters, and broadcast new
pictures of two servicemen apparently admitting to their error.


The naval personnel, who were captured in the northern Gulf on
March 23, had "all confessed that they illegally entered Iranian
territorial waters," state television said, without giving
further details


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


With diplomatic efforts to solve the standoff still making no
headway, Iran infuriated Britian by broadcasting images of two of
the detainees pointing to a map and saying how they "apparently"
intruded into Iranian waters.


"At about 10 o'clock in the morning, we were seized, apparently
at this point here, from their maps, from the GPS they've shown
us, which is inside Iranian territorial waters," said one of the
men, Captain Chris Air.


"So far we have been treated very well by the people here. They
have looked after us and given us enough food," said Air, dressed
in military fatigues with his sleeves rolled up.


As he spoke, Air pointed with a pen to pictures of their frigate
and speedboats stuck on to the maps and an area with the
handwritten legend "the point where the intruding boats were
captured."


Iranian television had on Sunday shown the pictures without the
original sound but Monday's news bulletins showed the navy
personnel talking in English with Farsi subtitles.


Television also showed new pictures of several of the servicemen
sitting down, chatting and apparently smiling as well as the
Global Positioning System (GPS) devices that were found with
them.


Britain, which insists the 15 were on a routine anti-smuggling
patrol in Iraqi waters, again protested at the sailors being
paraded on state television.


"It's unacceptable for these pictures to be shown," the Foreign
Office said.


Following Air on the video was Lieutenant Felix Carman, who also
spoke to the camera, saying: "Yes, I'd like to say to the Iranian
people, I can understand why you were so angry about our
intrusion into your waters."


Britain, which unlike the United States has diplomatic relations
with Iran and maintains a substantial embassy in Tehran, has said
it is continuing bilateral contacts with Iranian officials to
resolve the standoff.


However these appear to have borne little fruit and Iranian
pledges last week that it would release the sole woman detained,
Faye Turney, came to nothing after Tehran complained about
Britain's behaviour.


"The doubt which the British are casting on the place of the
sailors' arrest has become completely baseless with the advanced
GPS devices and the sailors' frank confessions," said Javad
Arianmanesh, a prominent Iranian lawmaker.


On Sunday, about 200 Iranian students protested outside the
British embassy to demand that the 15 sailors and marines be
punished, exploding firecrackers and chantingd "Death to
Britain".


US President George W. Bush, who has backed Britain in its
attempts to free the naval personnel, has called the sailors and
marines "hostages" and urged their release. However Iran was
quick to hit back at his comments.


"It is better for the US president to refrain from making ill-
considered, non- technical and irrational comments," state
television quoted foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali
Hosseini as saying.


The United States has never ruled out the option of using
military action to bring the Islamic republic to heel over its
nuclear programme, which Washington says is aimed at making
atomic weapons. Iran denies the charges.


Meanwhile, Iranian officials continued to applaud the arrest of
the sailors and marines, which coincided with festivities for the
major holiday of Nowruz which marks the start of the Iranian New
Year.


"The soldiers of Islam arrested the intruders to Islamic Iran's
marine borders and violators of our sovereignty and made Iranian
people happier," said Hassan Firouzabadi, the commander of the
Islamic republic's joint armed forces.

