

Asian stocks closed mixed on Monday with a volatile performance
by Wall Street last week, and a host of domestic factors
impacting on regional sentiment.


New York had wobbled to a mixed finish as better-than-expected
economic data was offset by worries that US trade sanctions
slapped on China might spark growing protectionism.


Shanghai shrugged off those fears and surged 2.15 percent to
another record high on support for financial and steel makers
while Hong Kong and Taipei both ended the day flat in response to
Wall Street's mixed performance.


Persistent concerns for the US outlook and a weaker than expected
business survey pushed Tokyo down 1.50 percent, as New Delhi
tumbled 4.72 percent after its central bank raised interest
rates.


Sydney slumped 1.32 percent amid escalating fears its central
bank will also move to tighten monetary policy when it meets on
Wednesday, Kuala Lumpur eased 0.05 percent while elsewhere most
benchmarks ended on a positive note.


Seoul was a standout by gaining 0.48 percent after South Korea
finally reached a free trade agreement with the United States,
Wellington was up 0.74 percent and Manila rose 0.81 percent ahead
of the Easter break.


Jakarta was up 1.0 percent for its best ever finish, Singapore
rose 0.47 percent and Bangkok rose 0.88 percent amid hopes for an
interest rate cut.


TOKYO: Share prices closed down 1.50 percent, reversing early
gains as investors remained nervous about the outlook for the US
economy.


Dealers said a drop in Japanese business confidence did little to
lift the market's mood, with sentiment among major manufacturers
down for the first time in a year, according to a central bank
report.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 259.24 points to 17,028.41. Turnover
was 2.34 billion shares, up from 1.94 billion on Friday.


"Investors were not impressed by the Tankan results and are
awaiting fresh clues about the outlook in the US," said Tatsuo
Kurokawa, a strategist at Japan Asia Securities.


Investors will pay particular attention to US employment data,
due out Friday, and to possible updates of earnings guidance by
US companies before the season for reporting quarterly results
opens, dealers said.


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Tankan survey showed, slightly below
market expectations for a figure of 24.


Kazuhiro Takahashi, general manager of equities at Daiwa
Securities SMBC, said the market had largely shrugged off the
Tankan numbers.


"Investors remained focused on the outlook for the US economy and
markets, and will pay particular attention to upcoming US
indicators such as the jobs data due out Friday," Takahashi said.


Nippon Steel slid 37 yen to 791.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed flat, giving up early gains as the
Japanese stock market reversed direction and finished sharply
lower.


Dealers said worries over a standoff between the West and Iran
over seizure of British military personnel, the recent uptrend in
crude oil prices and uncertainties over the US economy prompted
investors to shed positions.


Trade was also cautious ahead of upcoming holidays, with the
market to be closed from Thursday until next Monday for the Ching
Ming Festival and Easter.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 8.77 points at 19,809.70. Turnover
was 42.39 billion Hong Kong dollars (5.4 billion US dollars).


"The index encountered resistance when it approached the 20,000
points level after opening with strong gains," said Howard
Gorges, vice chairman at South China Securities.


"Some investors decided to take profit when they saw that the
index could not breach the 20,000 level, especially with sharp
falls on the Tokyo market and uncertainties in different parts of
the world," he said.


Gorges noted that the "outlook for the US economy remains
uncertain because economic data remain mixed".


Moreover, "Iran's tension with the UK and the US remains and its
impact on crude oil price movement is uncertain".


"In the face of these uncertainties and the absence of any local
market-moving news, many investors turned cautious in afternoon
trade and locked in some profit," he said.


China Mobile fell 0.80 dollars to 70.25.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.48 percent higher and within sight
of record levels as investors hailed a long awaited free trade
accord with the United States reached Monday.


Dealers said automobiles and textiles, major beneficiaries of the
bilateral deal, led the advance, with the main board index rising
through 1,460 points at one stage. Some of the gains were pared
on quick profit-taking.


The KOSPI index ended up 6.98 points at 1,459.53. Volume was 297
million shares worth 3.4 trillion won (3.62 billion dollars).


"The FTA is apparently good news for the market," said Kyobo
Securities analyst Park Seok-Hyun.


He said the deal, still to be ratified in both countries, will
have huge implications for the local economy where the export
sector and related industries account for more than 70 percent of
total output.


Hyundai Motor jumped 2,200 won to 68,300.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed little changed, confined to a narrow
range as Wall Street's mixed closing on Friday provided no clear
lead for local investors.


Dealers said gains in large-cap stocks due to laggard buying and
expectations of industry recovery for select segments were offset
by technical pressure on the rest of the market.


The weighted index closed up 0.58 points at 7,884.99 on turnover
of 115.04 billion Taiwan dollars (3.48 billion US).


Kai Yuan Securities Investment Consultant president Tom Tang said
laggard interest drove large-cap stocks higher, with select
stocks boosted by hopes of better industry prospects this
quarter.


"Select wafer foundries, liquid crystal display panel firms and
dynamic random access memory chipmakers scored gains on hopes of
better industry performance in the current quarter."


However, he said there were no leads strong enough to spur
aggressive buying, and technical resistance kept investors from
any further position-building in the broad market.


"There were no convincing leads for a decisive upturn, and
investors chose the cautious approach while they waited for a
clearer direction," he added.


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co edged up 0.30 to 68.20
dollars.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed 2.15 percent higher, extending
recent gains as financials and steelmakers led another record
breaking performance.


Dealers said investors found support on expectations for solid
corporate earnings after China's largest steelmakers, Baosteel,
reported a three percent increase in 2006 net profit.


Anticipation over the planned launch of futures contracts also
continued to drive China's blue chip stocks after authorities
issued draft rules that will allow market players a new financial
tool to hedge and exploit risk.


The latest gains, made only a month after a one-day crash in
Shanghai sparked a global equity rout, bring gains in the markets
to more than 170 percent since January 2006 as more and more
investors buy in.


The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 68.61 points to 3,252.60
points, a new high. Turnover rose to 93.30 billion yuan (12
billion dollars).


"Investors are confident about the first quarter earnings of
listed companies, which are expected to see average growth of at
least 30 percent year-on-year," said Wang Jun, an analyst at
China Merchants Securities.


The view was supported by a regulatory report that said China's
425 key state- owned enterprises posted a combined profit of
158.27 billion yuan in the first two months, up 39 percent year-
on-year.


Angang New Steel gained 1.02 yuan to 15.59.


SYDNEY: Share prices fell 1.32 percent after investor sentiment
was rattled by speculation the central bank will raise interest
rates this week.


Dealers said major retail banks fell amid heightened speculation
that the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise interest rates by
25 basis points to 6.50 percent on Wednesday.


The SP/ASX 200 shed 79.2 points to 5,915.8. Turnover was 1.43
billion shares worth 4.48 billion dollars (3.65 billion US).


Rate speculation was supported by the release of stronger-than-
expected domestic data related to retail sales and building
approvals, Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart
Smith said.


"Both the futures and bond markets are starting to adjust for a
rate rise even if we don't get one on Wednesday," he said.


Smith said mining stocks also slumped, possibly because of
potential slowing growth in Japan as indicated by the Bank of
Japan Tankan report.


"Overall, the market was fairly subdued although the futures are
showing a healthy 40 points premium to the physical market which
shows the underlying fundamentals are still bullish," Smith said.


National Australia Bank lost 0.38 dollars to 40.02.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 0.47 percent higher but pulled
back from earlier gains after steep losses on the Bombay stock
exchange, and the Tokyo market's fall.


The Straits Times Index closed up 15.07 points at 3,246.31 on
volume of 1.67 billion shares worth 1.35 billion Singapore
dollars (897 million US).


"The market here has gone up quite a bit, so when the overseas
markets fall, investors began to take some profits," a dealer
with a local brokerage said.


Indian share prices plunged 4.72 percent Monday, the sharpest
fall in nearly a year as bank, auto and housing stocks were sold
off after a central bank interest rate hike, dealers there said.


The Tokyo market also finished lower.


But dealers noted that the medium-term outlook for the Singapore
market remains positive, supported by strong local fundamentals.


"The macro and long-term growth outlook for Singapore remains
positive. Given the healthy liquidity conditions, rising asset
prices and healthy corporate earnings growth, there is optimism
for higher index levels once the current consolidation phase is
over," DBS Vickers analysts said in a note to clients.


ST Engineering was up 0.04 at 3.36.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed marginally lower, down 0.05
percent on some profit-taking, with trading generally listless
amid some caution on the international front.


Dealers said investors also were cautious over ongoing Middle
East tensions and the seizure of British soldiers by Iran which
has fuelled sharp gains in the world price of crude oil.


The composite index closed down 0.57 points to 1,246.30. Volume
traded was 1.83 billion shares valued at 2.01 billion ringgit
(580.9 million dollars).


"Over the short-term, I think the market will trade sideways with
a downward bias," said an investment analyst with a local
brokerage.


"The risks are mainly on the external front, such as the movement
of world oil prices," said the analyst, adding that geopolitical
tensions are adding to the weak undertone.


Maybank fell 0.10 ringgit to 12.60.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.88 percent higher but as political
tensions continued to plague the market, despite last week's
announcement that polls would be held in December.


Dealers said energy and banking stocks led the gains on rising
oil prices and widespread expectations for an interest rate cut
next week.


The composite index gained 5.91 points to 679.62 on turnover of
1.96 billion shares worth 12 billion baht (342 million dollars).


Military-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont said last
week that elections to restore democracy would be held in
December.


But despite the annoucement, Mayuree Chowvikarn, a senior market
analyst at Siam City Securities, said political turmoil doesn't
look set to ease.


"Share prices in Thailand are cheap but weighted with political
risks. (Foreign) investors are unlikely to make the bet," Mayuree
said.


"Even with significant volume today, there is no lead for the
index to rise further," she added.


PTT added 2.00 to 210.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices rose 1.0 percent to close at a record high
on improved prospects for corporate earnings and further interest
rate cuts.


The composite index closed up 18.460 points at 1,849.384. Volume
was 2.23 billion shares worth 3.19 trillion rupiah (349.66
million dollars).


"Investors are now getting more upbeat about 2007 corporate
earnings ... especially with the prospect of further interest
rate cuts," said Satrio Utomo, an analyst with Rifan Securities.


Interest-rate sensitive stocks gained, in particular banks.


Bank Rakyat Indonesia gained 150 rupiah to 5,200.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.81 percent higher on selective
buying of blue chips ahead of the long Easter break.


The composite index was up 26.05 points at 3,229.60. Turnover was
3.1 billion shares worth 4.4 billion pesos (91.6 million
dollars).


"There was an opportunity to buy following the momentum last
Friday," said Rommel Macapagal of Westlink Global Equities Inc.,
citing that 1.6 percent gain.


"Some investors who wanted to cash in ahead of the (Easter)
holidays, have already done so last week, so there was not much
selling pressure anymore. As a result, bargain-hunters stepped in
and buoyed the market," Macapagal said.


Dealers predict the main index will hover at the 3,200 level
during the shortened trading this week, with many investors
already taking off for the holiday.


Ayala Corp advanced 5.00 pesos to 565.00.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.74 percent higher, supported by
gains in market leader Telecom.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 30.80 points to 4,137.95 on turnover
worth 89.4 million dollars (60 million US).


Stephen Wright of ASB Securities said the market had moved higher
after a quiet start, with Telecom rising 10 cents to 4.83
dollars.


"There's been good support for some of the other decent
(stocks)," Wright said. "Pretty good market recovery in the face
of mixed Asian markets."


Sky City came off weakness last week to rise seven cents to 4.74
dollars.


"I think this may be the end of some offshore institutional
selling," Wright said.


MUMBAI: Share prices plunged 4.72 percent, the sharpest fall in
nearly a year as bank, auto and housing stocks were sold off
after a central bank interest rate hike.


Dealers said concern that the central bank may take more steps to
cool inflation which has stayed above six percent for wholesale
prices in the past month had triggered the selling.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex fell 616.73 points to 12,455.37.


The drop was sparked by Friday's move by the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI) to hike a key short-term lending rate by a quarter of
a percentage point to 7.75 percent and the amount of cash that
banks must hold on deposit -- by half a percentage point -- which
raised concern that credit costs would rise sharply.


"The markets bled, hit by the RBI's rate hike. We feel there is
weakness ahead as investors expect further tightening at the end
of April," said Atul Hatwar, a dealer with brokerage Crosseas
Securities.


State Bank of India fell 62.65 rupees to 930.25.

