

Poles on Monday remembered "their" pope, John Paul II, whom many
in this deeply Catholic country want to see placed firmly on the
fast-track to sainthood.


"Santo subito", "Our saint", "To us, he is already a saint," read
the front-page headlines in major national dailies on the second
anniversary of the Polish-born pontiff's death.


Some of the newspapers cited Catholic bishops as saying John Paul
II, the first pope from the former communist bloc, could be
beatified -- the first step on the road to sainthood -- within
the next year.


The new archbishop of Warsaw, Kazimierz Nycz, who took up office
on Sunday, hailed the late pope as a living saint, but urged
Poles to put more effort into learning from his teachings than
pushing for his swift canonisation.


"He was a saint in flesh and blood. But let us not put him on too
high a pedestal, for then we would be unable to follow his
example," Nycz said.


Around Poland this weekend, masses were held to pray for the
beatification of John Paul II, born Karol Wojtyla in the southern
Polish town of Wadowice on May 18, 1920.


Concerts were staged, along with exhibitions and shows based on
the prolific writings of the pope, who died on April 2, 2005, at
9:37pm in his private rooms in the Vatican.


The precise hour of John Paul II's death has become a magical
hour in Poland, and at 9:37pm Monday, bells will toll around the
country in his memory.


Overnight Sunday, around 1,000 youngsters gathered at Saint
Anne's church in Warsaw for a prayer vigil.


"The death of John Paul II united us two years ago. Today, we are
in particular need of that unity, which is why I am here," Piotr
Sobczynski, a student at Warsaw Polytechnic, told AFP.


Hundreds of votive candles flickered in the balmy spring air
outside the church, where one of the outer walls was adorned with
a giant portrait of the late pope.


In the southern city of Krakow, where Wojtyla spent most of his
adult life and was archbishop before his surprise election as
pope in October 1978, the John Paul II cultural centre mounted an
exhibition of 110 photographs taken by AFP photographers during
his numerous pilgrimages around the world.


An open-air concert was due to be staged at Krakow's historic
market square on Monday evening, and at 9:37 pm, a crowd was
expected to gather outside the window at the archbishop's palace,
from which the late pope used to hold impromptu conversations
with the faithful.


Warsaw will remember Poland's pope with a huge cross formed out
of hundreds of votive candles in Pilsudski Square, the site where
John Paul II celebrated mass before a million people on his first
visit as pope to his native Poland in June 1979, when the central
European country was still under communist rule.


In that mass, the pope spoke the words that many say gave
Solidarity -- the first free trade union in the communist bloc,
founded in 1980 -- the will to bring down communism.


"Let the Spirit descend and renew the face of this land," he
said.


A poll published Monday showed that 61 percent of Poles want John
Paul II to be canonised without going through the usual first
step of beatification.


"Canon law depends on the supreme legislator, the pope," said
Bishop Tadeusz Pieronek, head of a special tribunal involved in
the beatification process of John Paul II, leaving the door open
to the possibility of the late pontiff being canonised without
first being beatified..


"The process depends on Benedict XVI, not only in terms of when
to announce his decision but also in terms of the possibility of
shortening the process," Pieronek said Monday.

