

Australia all-rounder Shane Watson is "likely" to be ready for
the World Cup semi-finals according to the world champions'
physiotherapist.


Medium-pacer Watson, whose career has been blighted by injuries,
limped off midway through his second over during Australia's
10-wicket thrashing of Bangladesh at the Sir Vivian Richards
Stadium on Saturday.


But a subsequent scan revealed only a minor calf muscle tear.


Physio Alex Kontouris said Watson was "likely" to be out for
three weeks which could still see him available for the World Cup
semi-finals on April 24 and 25.


"But I want to review it later in the week. It all depends on how
quickly he's improving," Kontouris said.


"If he is feeling great by the end of the week, the prognosis is
very good," he also told the Australian Associated Press.


"If it's not, it's probably going to take a lot longer to
recover."


Watson's scans are being scrutinised at home by Australian team
doctor Trefor Jones and radiologists.


"There's nothing major, no long-term sort of damage. It's just to
make sure we haven't missed anything," Kontouris explained.


"Once you strain a calf muscle it limits what you can do. You are
guaranteed to use it every time you run, sprint.


"You would probably want him to be as close to 100 percent as
possible for him to come back because you wouldn't want it to re-
occur."


Batsman Brad Hodge, an occasional off-spinner, is the most likely
replacement for Watson.


But Hodge's slow bowling is no substitute for the effective work
Watson has carried out in the middle overs of a one-day innings.


Watson, 25, has played just three Tests, injuring his shoulder in
his third Test appearance in Brisbane in November 2005 against
West Indies.


The Queenslander was chosen for the 2003 World Cup squad but
withdrew because of a back problem and had to pull out of
Australia's one-day squad that toured Bangladesh 12 months ago
because of a right calf strain sustained while making 201 in the
Pura Cup final against Victoria.


He then missed the whole of the 2006/07 Ashes series in Australia
with a hamstring strain.


Australia fast bowler Nathan Bracken said Watson's latest setback
would cause problems for the balance of the team.


"It is going to change how we set up, it is going to change how
we play. Good teams will adapt and work with that and that's what
we've got to to do."


Australia are not in action again until Sunday when they play
England, their shock conquerors in the CB series finals, in
Antigua in the third of their six Super Eights matches.


Ricky Ponting's men have won all their five matches at this
tournament and are currently top of the Super Eights table as
they bid to become the first team to win three successive World
Cups.


After the England game, Australia play Ireland in Barbados on
April 13, Sri Lanka on April 16 and New Zealand on April 20.

