

A young British woman, who was found dead in a bathtub full of
sand, was caught on camera with the main suspect just before she
disappeared, television networks said Monday.


Lindsay Ann Hawker, a 22-year-old English teacher, was seen at a
cafe on March 25 with Tatsuya Ichihashi, who lived in the
apartment where her bruised and naked body was later found buried
in the bathtub, the reports said.


Security camera footage broadcast by the Nippon and Fuji networks
showed a Caucasian woman, dressed in either a white shirt and
skirt or a long white jacket, talking to a man in a brown jacket.


She appeared to be at ease, running her hand through her hair as
the man spoke to her with the help of hand gestures.


"Our security camera records showed that they enter the
establishment at 8:51 am and left here at 9:45 am," an employee
of the casual eatery told reporters.


Police believe that they left the restaurant to go to Ichikawa's
apartment, media said, adding that security cameras at the nearby
train station and the apartment also showed them together.


Police issued an arrest warrant to question the unemployed man,
who dashed off when officers approached him at the apartment on
March 27.


Hawker's father has issued tearful pleas to the public to help
find Ichihashi. Media reports have said Ichihashi had stalked
Hawker but that she nonetheless agreed to give him an English
lesson.


Police declined to comment on the camera footage, citing ongoing
investigations.


Ichihashi is accused of abandoning the body. An autopsy found the
English teacher died of suffocation.


The case has received intense media coverage here as it came
seven years after the high-profile killing in Japan of another
young British woman, Lucie Blackman.


Blackman, a bar hostess, went missing for seven months before her
dismembered body was found in a seaside cave near Tokyo.


A former property developer, Joji Obara, is on trial in relation
to Blackman's death. He has pleaded not guilty. A verdict is
expected later this month.

