

Zimbabwe's opposition leader called Monday on South African
President Thabo Mbeki to move rapidly to defuse the crisis across
his border where a general strike was set to ratchet up tensions
another notch.


Morgan Tsvangirai's plea to Mbeki came while he was in
Johannesburg for a medical check after his recent assault as
fellow opposition activists, arrested and then beaten in custody
last week, were to appear in court in Harare.


Authorities in Zimbabwe again accused opponents of President
Robert Mugabe of being manipulated by the West, warning that
Tuesday's workers' shutdown would only serve to add to the
country's economic woes.


Mbeki was appointed by fellow southern Africa leaders last
Thursday to act as a mediator between Mugabe's government and
Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change.


The size of his task soon became apparent on Friday when Mugabe
openly acknowledged his security forces had assaulted Tsvangirai
and other members of his MDC movement before securing the
endorsement of his party to stand in next year's presidential
elections, when he will be 84.


"It is critical that President Mbeki act quickly and decisively
to halt the suffering of millions of Zimbabweans," Tsvangirai
told journalists in South Africa. "There is no time to waste."


While leaders of the 14-nation Southern African Development
Community (SADC) did issue a joint statement of solidarity with
Mugabe, they are understood to have severely criticised him
behind closed doors at their summit in Tanzania.


The inflation rate in Zimbabwe now stands at a staggering 1,730
percent while around 80 percent of people are out of work.


The result has seen around three million Zimbabweans leave their
country, the majority of whom have headed south to South Africa.


Mbeki has come under fire in some quarters for failing to
publicly criticise Mugabe, instead advocating a policy of "quiet
diplomacy".


However Tsvangarai said he welcomed the prospect of regional
involvement in Zimbabwe's problems.


"The MDC is ready to participate fully in a transparent
dialogue," he said.


"The people of Zimbabwe need food and jobs, they need freedom and
help."


Tsvangirai is a former president of the Zimbabwe Coalition of
Trade Unions (ZCTU), the organisers of this week's planned
general strike which is designed to further turn up the heat on
Mugabe.


Workers want their minimum wage to be raised to one million
Zimbabwean dollars, currently worth around 4,000 US dollars at
the fast-changing exchange rate, from the current 90,000
Zimbabwean dollars.


The ZCTU said it called the general labour shutdown over
authorities' failure to respond to the worsening economic crisis.


"We expect everyone to take part," ZCTU spokeswoman Kumbulani
Ndlovu told AFP. The call extended to everyone from public
servants to shopowners and bank staff.


The government however urged workers to shun the strike call,
saying it would only worsen the situation.


"Such actions only serve to add further hardships to the ordinary
people of Zimbabwe, including workers and their families," Norman
Chakanetsa, a senior official in the industry and international
trade ministry told the state-run Herald daily.


"In addition, this will further negatively affect business
viability and lead to loss of jobs."


Central bank governor Gideon Gono admitted the economy was in
deep trouble, saying "rampant and naked indiscipline in the
economy is a major driver of the current crisis" while rejecting
calls for the Zimbabwe dollar to be devalued.


Meanwhile nine MDC activists who were allegedly dragged from
their hospital beds on Saturday night were due to appear in court
to face charges in connection with a number of recent reported
firebombings, their lawyers said.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said Sunday that she
held Mugabe "responsible" for injuries to the nine and condemned
attacks on the opposition.

