

World Health Organisation chief Margaret Chan on Monday appealed
for greater transparency in reporting bird flu and other disease
outbreaks, saying governments have a duty to people outside their
borders.


While reporting such outbreaks may damage the reputation of a
country in the short term, the long-term impact would be more
lasting as it will inspire confidence and enable authorities to
deal with the problem early, she said.


"It will affect the image (of a country). It will affect the
business... But that will be a short-term setback," she told a
regional conference on emerging health threats.


"If you are transparent and honest about what is happening and
share information on a regular basis to the community, I think
the short-term setback will gain long-term confidence."


She said that in an age where diseases can spread around the
world due to easier travel, local governments have a
responsibility not only to their own people but also to the
international community to be open about emerging domestic health
threats.


"I think we need to get the proper message out... We need to
protect our own people, but we have a duty to go beyond our own
boundaries to protect people in other parts of the world," Chan
said.


"This is why it is so important for us to have international
cooperation in the interest of global solidarity."


Chan and other speakers at the conference did not mention any
country withholding information.


But during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) health
crisis that hit mostly East Asia in 2003, China came under
criticism for being not forthcoming in reporting the outbreak
first detected in that country.


This allowed the flu-like disease to spread quickly across the
region and the resulting health scare curbed travel and caused
severe economic downturns in certain countries.


Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in a keynote
address to the conference that during SARS, "the failure of some
governments to deal transparently with the problem contributed to
the further spread of the virus" across the world.


"We must not allow this to happen again," he said.


As the threat of terrorism has prompted police intelligence
agencies to share information across borders, there is no reason
why health authorities should not do the same, he said.


After its emergence in Guangdong, southern China, SARS quickly
spread globally to infect more than 8,000 people and kill more
than 800, including 349 in China.


Since 2003, avian influenza has killed at least 169 people,
mostly in Southeast Asia.


China announced last Thursday its 15th death from bird flu,
raising concerns about the nation's monitoring standards after
the victim had no reported contact with infected birds.

