

Japan's scandal-hit Internet firm Livedoor, whose founder was
imprisoned for financial fraud, tried on Monday to make a fresh
start, betting on bloggers for its revival.


"We have started all fresh to get out there and become a leading
company in the new area of Web 2.0," Livedoor head Kozo
Hiramatsu, 61, told AFP.


Hiramatsu took over the once-flying firm from its former
flamboyant president Takafumi Horie, 34, after the dotcom tycoon
and his colleagues were hit by an accounting fraud scandal in
January 2006.


The company on Monday set up the Livedoor Holding Co., which will
count Livedoor Co. as a subsidiary.


Hiramatsu -- sometimes described as the only adult in Livedoor
management -- will head the holding company. Livedoor Co., now a
subsidiary, will have Takeshi Idezawa, 33, and Tomoki Terui, 34,
as president and vice president respectively.


"I'm not much older than these coworkers," Hiramatsu joked.


Unlike his predecessors, accused of playing with mergers and
acquisitions, Idezawa said the new Livedoor will focus on next-
generation blogging services, in which users design their own
online networking.


For example, blogs on Korean barbecue restaurants now stand alone
in cyberspace, but they could create a community based on the
same interests and share information, Idezawa explained.


"This would make it more attractive for advertisers," Idezawa
said.


Both Idezawa and Terui are veterans of Horie's Livedoor, which
was originally called On the Edge.


"When the company started off as On the Edge, it used to be a
hard-core technological company," Hiramatsu said. "Even amid the
scandal, its foundation as a technological company has not been
shaken."


Idezawa said, "I feel Livedoor opened new approaches for a
stagnant society, regardless of whether it was good or bad."


"I'd like to take over the positive DNA, which had the potential
to possibly change society."


Horie revelled in thumbing his nose at the establishment during
his meteoric ascent as one of Japan's leading Internet stars but
the Ferrari-driving Internet whizkid has seen a brutal fall from
grace.


Eschewing suits and ties in favour of tee-shirts, Horie built one
of Japan's top Internet empires by buying up companies in
everything from financial services to real estate, publishing and
even an auto dealer.


Horie was sentenced last month to a year and a half in prison
after being convicted of falsely reporting profit to hide losses.
He has strongly denied the allegations and appealed.


Livedoor has been delisted and slapped with a 280 million yen
(2.4 million dollars) fine.

