

Billionaire Sam Zell will buy media giant Tribune Co. and take
the company private in a 13-billion-dollar deal, the company
announced Monday.


Zell won the bidding after months of negotiations, besting an
offer from Los Angeles-based billionaires Ron Burkle and Eli
Broad.


"I am delighted to be associated with Tribune Company, which I
believe is a world-class publishing and broadcasting enterprise,"
said Zell, a real estate mogul listed as 52nd in the Forbes list
of the 400 richest Americans.


"As a long-term investor, I look forward to partnering with the
management and employees as we build on the great heritage of
Tribune Company."


The deal calls for Zell to contribute 315 million dollars of an
8.1 billion dollar purchase price, amounting to 34 dollars per
share. An employee stock ownership plan, financed through new
debt, will provide the rest of the cash and five billion in
existing debt will remain.


Zell will take over the group owning the Chicago Tribune and Los
Angeles Times at a time when traditional media have been
struggling in the face of new technology.


Tribune Co. also owns the New York daily Newsday, The Baltimore
Sun, South Florida Sun-Sentinel, Orlando Sentinel and Hartford
Courant as well as 23 television stations and the Chicago Cubs
baseball team.


The statement said the company would sell the baseball club at
the end of the 2007 season.


For Tribune Co. the deal marks a new chapter for a company
started in 1847 with the birth of the Chicago Tribune. It became
a publicly traded company only in 1983.


In 2000, Tribune Co. bought the Times Mirror group, including the
flagship Los Angeles Times, for 8.3 billion dollars in what was
then the largest acquisition in the newspaper industry.


But the company has struggled with the loss of advertising
revenues to online media including Google. And in the past year
its shareholder, including the Chandler family trusts that
originally owned the Los Angeles Times, have been reportedly
dissatisfied.


The Chandler Trusts agreed to vote in favor of the deal, which
calls for seven billion dollars in new financing from Citigroup,
Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase.

