

The head of a leading Taiwan cable news network resigned Monday
for screening footage of a wanted criminal threatening to kill a
rival gang leader.


TVBS general manager Lee Tao announced his decision days after
the island's media regulator demanded he shoulder the blame for
broadcasting the controversial footage.


"I am deeply sorry about the incident ... I am willing to take
full responsibility," Lee said in a statement.


However Lee hit out at the independence-leaning government,
accusing it of trying to use the incident as an excuse to
suppress TVBS.


The ruling Democratic Progressive Party claims the network,
acting on behalf of rival China, often smears the government.
TVBS denies the allegation.


TVBS is 47 percent controlled by Hong Kong's TVB International
via a company headquartered in Bermuda, with the remaining 53
percent held by a Taiwan- registered company.


The row between TVBS and the DPP government dates back to 2005
when a popular TVBS phone-in show exposed a major labour and
construction scandal allegedly involving a former top
presidential aide and several senior government officials.


TVBS's airing of the five-minute footage last Monday night
provoked an outcry from DPP lawmakers, who demanded the cabinet-
level regulator, the National Communications Commission (NCC),
shut down TVBS.


They vowed to stage mass protests outside the station.


The NCC fined the network, which includes TVBS and TVBS-N news
channels, two million Taiwan dollars (60,423 US) and demanded
Lee's resignation.


The police launched an investigation into whether there was any
relationship between the reporter involved and the gangster, Chou
Cheng-pao, who was arrested Thursday.


The footage showed Chou wearing a black bullet-proof vest, waving
a handgun and threatening to kill a leading member of another
gang.


The network, which had treated the story as a scoop, said then
that the tape was given to its reporters by an unidentified
source.


TVBS said its own investigation showed that the tape was shot by
its reporter, Shih Chen-kang, whose superior had also helped.


Shih was accused of helping to endanger public security and joint
possession (with the gangster) of illegal firearms. After
questioning by police, he was released on bail of 100,000
dollars.

