

The IG Metall labour union said Monday it had filed a lawsuit
against engineering giant Siemens over allegations that it may
have helped finance a rival union in order to undermine IG
Metall's power within the Siemens workforce.


"IG Metall has filed a complaint over possible favouritism" of
the independent AUB (Arbeitsgemeinschaft Unabhaengiger
Betriebsangehoeriger) and possible attempts to influence voting
in work council elections within the Siemens group, the union
said in a statement.


"We have the suspicion and indications that AUB was financed by
Siemens in order to build it up into a sort of counter union to
IG Metall," union chief Juergen Peters said.


IG Metall may possibly have been disadvantaged in its work and in
works council elections, he alleged.


"We hope the lawsuit will bring about transparency," Peters said.


His deputy, Berthold Huber, said there may have been systematic
favouritism to AUB.


"Only the public prosecutors have the means to determine the
extent of this affair," Huber said.


IG Metall dismissed suggestions that the AUB was a proper labour
union.


"The AUB has not conducted any wage negotiations, nor is it in a
position to conduct strike action," Huber argued.


Siemens is currently entangled in a web of different corruption
allegations.


Last week, a member of Siemens' central management board,
Johannes Feldmayer, was arrested over his alleged involvement in
allegations that management tried to build up the tiny AUB into a
possible counterweight to the all-powerful IG Metall.


Siemens' former finance chief, Karl-Hermann Baumann, was also
being investigated in the matter.


Both he and Feldmayer are being involved in 15-20 million euros
(20-26 million dollars) in alleged bogus consultancy fees to AUB
chief Wilhelm Schelsky, who was arrested last month.


At the same time, Siemens is also engulfed in a massive slush-
fund scandal, where prosecutors allege that company managers
siphoned off hundreds of millions of euros in company money to
obtain foreign contracts.


Prosecutors this week said they had arrested two more current and
former managers in connection with the matter following a series
of high-profile arrests at the end of last year, including the
former head of Siemens' telecoms division, Thomas Ganswindt.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.

