

Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai called Monday on
South African President Thabo Mbeki to move rapidly to defuse the
escalating political crisis across his northern border.


"It is critical that President Mbeki act quickly and decisively
to halt the suffering of millions of Zimbaweans," Tsvangirai told
journalists.


"There is no time to waste," he added during a visit to
Johannesburg for medical treatment.


Mbeki was appointed by fellow southern Africa leaders last
Thursday to act as a mediator between the Zimbabwean government
of President Robert Mugabe and Tsvangirai's Movement for
Democratic Change.


The size of his task became apparent on Friday when Mugabe openly
acknowledged his security forces had assaulted Tsvangirai and
other members of his MDC movement whom he says are to blame for
the political unrest.


While leaders of the 14-nation Southern African Development
Community (SADC) did issue a joint statement of solidarity with
Mugabe, they are understood to have severely criticised him
behind closed doors at their summit in Tanzania.


The inflation rate in Zimbabwe now stands at a staggering 1,730
percent while around 80 percent of people are out of work.


The result has seen around three million Zimbabweans leave their
country, the majority of whom have headed south to South Africa.


Mbeki has come under fire in some quarters for failing to
publicly criticise Mugabe, instead advocating a policy of "quiet
diplomacy".


However Tsvangarai said he welcomed the prospect of regional
involvement in Zimbabwe's problems.


"The MDC is ready to participate fully in a transparent
dialogue," he said.


"The people of Zimbabwe need food and jobs, they need freedom and
help."


Tsvangirai said that the West, which has been critical of the
muted response by the region's leaders to the crisis on their
doorstep, should back the SADC mediation initiative.


"What the international comunity should do is support that
initiative rather than undermine it. It is important that the
international community prevent the escalation of this crisis
into a conflict," he said.


While he had still to be contacted by Mbeki, Tsvangirai said he
welcomed the opportunity to meet with him.


"The MDC is ready to participate fully in a transparent
dialogue," he said.


"I have not been contacted yet (by Mbeki), I hope to."


Mugabe was endorsed by his party on Friday to stand as its
candidate in elections in 2008. Tsvangirai said that it was
crucial that Mbeki ensures the vote is free and fair.


"What I am concerned about are the conditions for the elections
rather than candidature. This is what we hope Mr Mbeki can
resolve successfully," he said.

