

An Indonesian Roman Catholic priest was shot dead in his church
in the Philippines in the latest of a string of murders to alarm
the United Nations and human rights activists, officials said
Monday.


Franciskus Madhu, 30, a native of Flores Island in Indonesia, was
attacked by three unidentified gunmen as he prepared to take
Sunday mass in Labuagan in northern Kalinga province.


Police said they were checking the motive for the attack, saying
the priest did not have known enemies.


The Catholic Church however has been critical of the government
over alleged human rights abuses.


Reverend Father Jerome Adriatico, provincial superior of the
Society of the Divine Word, said Madhu had been engaged in
missionary work in the area since 2005.


He said police told him initial reports indicated Madhu was
gunned down at random for "no apparent reason."


"He has not even gone home for vacation, as we missionaries are
given the privilege to go on vacation after three years of
missionary work in a specific area," Adriatico said.


Opposition senator Aquilino Pimentel, who has closely followed
political killings in the country, said Madhu's death showed the
government's failure to curb violence and attacks on human
rights.


"Now they are killing priests. The Arroyo government is unable to
stop extra- judicial killings," Pimentel said, but stopped short
of directly blaming the military.


UN human rights special rapporteur Philip Alston, who conducted a
two-week investigation in February into a string of political
killings, blamed rogue members of the military for some of the
deaths.


Rights groups have said more than 800 activists, leftist leaders,
church workers, journalists and judicial workers who have
criticised the government have been killed since 2001.


The groups claim military death squads were behind the killings,
allegedly to suppress dissent against President Gloria Arroyo's
government.


The government has denied the claim but ordered army chiefs to
investigate its ranks.

