

Microsoft chairman and top philanthropist Bill Gates was in
Vietnam on Monday for a low-key visit to study the communist
country's lauded childhood vaccination programme, officials said.


The world's richest man, travelling with his wife Melinda, stayed
out of the limelight on his first return trip since he was feted
like a rock star here a year ago by thousands of university
students who idolise the IT messiah.


"They are here on a kind of study tour to learn more about the
immunisation programme in Vietnam," said World Health
Organisation country chief Hans Troedsson.


The couple arrived in Hanoi by private jet on Sunday for a three-
day visit during which they were also due to meet top government
leaders.


Monday they visited two clinics on the outskirts of Hanoi and
chatted with mothers and staff, said Duong Thi Khien, head of the
Dong Anh district health centre. "They wanted to look at
vaccination efforts for new-born babies."


Gates' charitable foundation, with a war chest of almost 30
billion dollars donated by the high-tech tycoon, funds HIV/AIDS
research and vaccinations against tuberculosis, malaria and other
diseases.


The couple wanted to learn about Vietnam's vaccination programme
for diseases including tetanus, measles, polio, tuberculosis and
hepatitis B and hold technical discussions with officials,
Troedsson said.


"Vietnam's immunisation programme is seen as one of the most
successful in the developing countries," he said. "They have a
coverage of over 90 percent, which even high-income countries
find difficult to reach."


The Cong An Nhan Dan police newspaper reported Gates would also
discuss a cervical cancer vaccination programme with health
officials.


In June last year the non-profit health group PATH announced a
five-year study, funded with a 27.8 million dollar grant from the
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, on cervical cancer
vaccinations.


Seattle-based PATH said it would conduct pilot studies in
Vietnam, India, Peru and Uganda with the aim of introducing
vaccines against the disease that kills more than 270,000 women
worldwide each year.


Troedsson praised Gates and his wife for their charitable
efforts.


"They really are providing substantial additional financial
resources, and they really have a sincere interest and want to do
this right," he said.


Gates is wildly popular with Vietnamese youth, who mobbed him
when he gave a speech at a Hanoi university last April.


The Microsoft co-founder also met Vietnam's former president and
prime minister during the April visit and launched a project
using Vietnamese-assembled PCs and low-cost Microsoft programmes.

