

Around 5,000 tribesmen gathered in a Pakistani border area Monday
to enlist for ongoing battles against foreign Al-Qaeda militants,
officials and witnesses said.


The jirga or tribal assembly was called by a pro-government chief
and former Taliban commander following two weeks of pitched
battles in the South Waziristan region during which more than 200
people have died.


The Pakistani government says the efforts to drive the Uzbek,
Chechen and Arab militants from the area show the success of
Islamabad's peace deals with formerly Taliban-supporting
tribesmen.


"We should fight against the foreigners as one nation. They have
created so many problems for us," witnesses quoted the tribal
commander, Mullah Nazir, as telling the gathering.


Officials say the foreign insurgents, who are accused of leading
attacks on NATO and US forces in Afghanistan, number around 500.
Most fled Afghanistan after the 2001 fall of the Taliban regime.


Nazir and other chiefs said they would gather a tribal army known
as a lashkar on Tuesday morning in Wana, the capital of the
lawless region on the border with Afghanistan, to fight the
foreign militants.


They called on tribesmen in the neighbouring towns of Tank and
Dera Ismail Khan, which are officially outside the semi-
autonomous Pakistani tribal belt, to join in.


The council also warned local tribesmen not to support foreigners
or else their homes would be burnt, they would face a one million
rupee (16,394 dollar) fine and they would be expelled from the
area, a local tribesman told AFP.


The main bazaar in Wana was shut on Monday and intermittent heavy
weapons fire could be heard in the distance. Tribesmen have
captured some of the foreign militants' forward positions, a
security official said.


Militants fired three rockets at a paramilitary camp in Wana
early Monday but there were no casualties, the official said,
adding that one rocket damaged the boundary wall of a public
school.


The violence broke out on March 19 when Mullah Nazir ordered a
group of Uzbeks to disarm. Tensions had been growing over the
foreigners' alleged terror activities as well as over local
disputes.

