

A suicide bomber blew up a truck near a primary school and police
station in Iraq's northern oil city of Kirkuk on Monday, killing
12 people, including nine children, a doctor said.


Another 178 people were wounded in the blast that caused
extensive damage at a time when US troops were visiting the
police station, Kirkuk district police commander Major General
Torhan Yussef Abdul Rahman said.


Just one policeman was among the dead. The other two victims were
women, accident and emergency doctor Abdullah Mahmud told AFP.


Many of the casualties were pupils at the nearby school and local
residents, after the suicide bomber blew up the truck outside the
criminal investigations department in the predominantly Kurdish
district of Rahimawa, Rahman said.


The suicide bomber was driving a truck packed with supplies of
flour before he blew up his deadly charge, police said.


It was the second such attack in northern Iraq in less than a
week, as insurgents seemingly take advantage of food rationing to
lull civilians into a false sense of security before unleashing
carnage.


Last Tuesday, at least 85 people were killed when a suicide truck
bomb rigged with explosives underneath sackloads of flour blew up
in a Shiite area of the town of Tal Afar, prompting a revenge
massacre of Sunni Arab men.


Ambulances in Kirkuk used loudspeakers to call on people to go to
hospitals to donate blood following the attack, an AFP
correspondent reported.


Rahman said the explosion caused extensive damage, but the area
was sealed off by police, with officers barring journalists from
viewing the bomb site.


Separately, a roadside bomb targeting a police patrol in south
Kirkuk wounded five policeman, police said.


Insurgent attacks are common in Kirkuk, which sits atop a third
of the country's oil resources and is home to a fractious ethnic
and sectarian mix.


Longstanding Kurdish demands for the city to be incorporated into
their autonomous region in northern Iraq are due to be put to a
referendum before the end of the year.

