

Islamic militants from a group linked to Al-Qaeda in Indonesia
held armed training exercises on the slopes of a volcano on the
island of Java, a report said Monday.


The militants from southeast Asian group Jemaah Islamiyah (JI),
blamed for a series of bloody attacks including the Bali
bombings, held at least two training exercises high up on the
3,370-foot (1,030-metre) Mount Sumbing, the Tempo magazine said.


The intelligence came from two men taken into custody by
Indonesian anti-terror police during blitzes last month that
uncovered large quantities of explosives, killed one suspect and
led to seven arrests.


Suspect Sarwi Edi, one of the two who revealed the exercises,
told police more than a dozen people were involved in the second
one in January, including 38 -year-old Abu Dujana, the hunted man
thought to lead JI.


Edi also said another suspected militant, Zulkarnain, witnessed
the training, the report said. Zulkarnain is wanted in connection
with the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people and were
blamed on JI.


Edi, 40, said that eight people from the capital Jakarta, six
people living near the volcano in central Java's Temanggung
district, and four instructors took part in January's exercise.


Saiful Anam, the other suspected militant who talked about the
training, told police he also took part and that the eight from
Jakarta were members of "Jakarta Asykari", or JI's armed wing in
the capital.


The 27-year-old said that participants carried M-16 automatic
rifles and practiced assembling the guns and taking them apart,
but were afraid to use them in case somebody overheard the crack
of gunfire.


He said the militants were trained in day and night observation
techniques, according to the report.


Edi said the first exercise took place in December and involved
10 people, all living near the volcano.


Senior police officer Bambang Hendarso Danuri said Monday that
the men arrested last month, including Edi and Anam, would be
transferred to Jakarta as early as Tuesday for further
questioning.


Apart from the 2002 and 2005 Bali bombings, JI has also been
accused of roles in the August 2003 Marriott Hotel and September
2004 Australian embassy attacks in Jakarta.


The United States says the group aims to establish a pan-Islamic
state in Southeast Asia through violent jihad.

