

Families of the British sailors held by Iran have only awkward
video footage and curious letters to reassure themselves about
the state of the 15 young people caught in the eye of a
diplomatic storm.


Appearing in camouflage fatigues in front of floral print
backdrops or maps of the northern Gulf where they were seized,
the captives are at the heart of the increasingly bitter stand-
off between London and Tehran.


From the Iranian state television footage of the 10 identified so
far, they do not appear to have been beaten or denied food, and
the men are clean shaven.


The eight sailors and seven marines, some of whom appeared in
another video Monday, are all in their early- to mid-20s.


The parents of one, Mark Banks, 24, a Royal Marine for around
three years, made an emotional statement Monday, saying he would
be humbled by the way his family and friends have rallied round.


"We miss him immensely but know he has the strength of character
to get through this difficult time, and look forward to seeing
him at home soon," they said.


Banks is "strong and determined," said his family, who live in
Lowestoft, England's most easterly town.


Nathan Thomas Summers, 21, a Royal Navy sailor, was featured in
the second video broadcast on Iran's state-run Arabic-language
channel Al-Alam, and his words had clearly been edited.


His father said it was a relief to see his son was alive and
well, though he said his son was "obviously given a script."


His village in Cornwall, southwest England, has launched a yellow
ribbon campaign.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26 -- the only woman among the group
-- was the first put up to speak before a camera.


Wearing a headscarf, smoking and looking nervous, she spoke
slowly and deliberately in the video released Wednesday, five
days after their March 23 capture.


Three handwritten letters have been attributed to her: one to her
parents, one to "Representative of the House of Commons" and one
"To British people."


The curious English and seemingly odd content have led some to
wonder how much influence her captors had.


In media interviews on HMS Cornwall in the days before her
capture, Turney said she enjoyed her job and was working to
provide a better life for her three-year- old daughter Molly. Her
husband Adam is a Royal Navy sailor.


Britain's Ministry of Defence has declined to formally name the
sailors, whose identities have become known either via their
families of the Iranian video footage.


Adam Sperry, 22, is a Royal Marine from Leicester, central
England.


His uncle Ray Cooper said: "It's all very well saying it's wrong
to parade them, but when it's your family it's a good feeling.


"To see him, it's great. He looked brilliant, if a bit thin."


In footage aired Sunday, Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman and
Royal Marine Captain Chris Air appeared pointing at maps behind
them of the northern Gulf.


Danny Masterton, 26, from Muirkirk in southwest Scotland, is the
son of a former professional footballer who played for Clyde and
Ayr United.


"We just want Danny home," his father said.


The serviceman's sister, Sarah, told The Sun newspaper: "It is a
very hard time for all of us. My mum is also in hospital, which
makes things worse."


Also named is Paul Barton, 21, from Southport. He is believed to
live with his mother and sister in the northwest English seaside
resort.


The others named so far are Joe Tindell, 21, of south London, and
Corporal Dean Harris, a 24-year-old Royal Marine from Carmarthen,
west Wales.

