

Australia midfielder Jason Culina said PSV are not planning to
pay any special attention to England striker Peter Crouch when
they tackle Liverpool in the Champions League quarter-final first
leg here on Tuesday.


PSV host Liverpool at the Philips Stadium in the first leg, just
days after Crouch dismantled Arsenal in the English Premiership
with a sublime hat-trick in a 4-1 victory.


In contrast, PSV have been in miserable form domestically despite
dumping Arsenal out of the previous round of this competition.
The Dutch champions' once seemingly unassailable lead was cut to
three points over Ajax and five to AZ Alkmaar at the weekend
after earning just three wins from their last nine league
matches.


However, speaking on Monday, Culina said PSV would put their
league woes behind them and deal with whatever Liverpool bring to
the table.


"This is a different competition and mentally we have to switch
to the Champions League," said the 27-year-old.


"We're concentrating on Tuesday night and forgetting the
championship for now.


"It's been a long season but we're playing in a top team and you
expect that, you expect to play a lot of games."


PSV are reeling from the loss of Brazilian centre-back Alex, to a
torn hamstring, and Ivory Coast striker Aruna Kone with torn
ligaments in his left knee.


"We have two injuries but we have a lot of quality to counter
that," added Culina, who is not worried about the potential
aerial threat posed by Crouch.


"Liverpool are a great team with many good players but we also
have good players who can do a job. Whoever is playing for
Liverpool, we'll deal with that and go out there and do our
best."


PSV coach Ronald Koeman has a good record against English
opposition having helped knock Manchester United out of the
competition in last season's group stage while at Benfica, and
having masterminded the elimination of Arsenal in the previous
round.


However his team managed only one point from a possible six
against Liverpool in the group stage and Koeman is conscious that
the visitors start the two-legged tie as favourites.


"We have to be proud just to be in the competition at this stage
but every sportsman wants to win," he said.


"Liverpool are aware of our qualities, we proved against Arsenal
we can beat bigger teams."


Koeman complained that the Champions League is distracting his
players from their league campaign, one reason he feels that the
domestic pack have closed in on his table-toppers.


But the man who once scored the winning goal in a Champions
League final - for Barcelona in a 1-0 win over Sampdoria at the
old Wembley - believes his players will put that behind them on
Tuesday night.


"There is great motivation because this is the Champions League.
There are only eight teams left in this phase and PSV are one of
them.


"Liverpool have a lot of confidence after their matches against
Barcelona (Liverpool beat the Spanish reigning champions on away
goals in the previous round). They are a team on form and playing
very well.


"I expect this match to be like the first match in the group
stage (a 0-0 draw between the teams at the Philips Stadium). They
always play the same system, very concentrated with their lines
close together.


"I will be happy with a 1-0 or 0-0."

