

Spanish police found an apartment where ETA's internal newsletter
was put together during an ongoing operation against the Basque
separatist group, a senior interior ministry official said
Monday.


"This operation has been important for several reasons. During
one of the searches it seems that equipment used to make Zutabe
was seized," Antonio Camacho, secretary of state for security,
told Cadena Ser radio.


Police found previous and as yet unreleased editions of the
newsletter, as well as the equipment used to make it, on Saturday
at an apartment in the Basque city of San Sebastian, conservative
daily newspaper ABC reported.


Police were surprised because they believed Zutabe, which is
distributed to ETA members and their supporters, was put together
across the border in France, the newspaper said.


Police have detained 11 people and seized some 170 kilograms (375
pounds) of explosives since the operation -- one of the biggest
since ETA's "permanent ceasefire" declaration in March 2006 --
began in northern Spain on Wednesday.


The latest detention took place overnight following a police
search in Pamplona that uncovered documents and equipment, a
police spokeswoman told AFP.


This operation allowed police to dismantle an ETA commando called
Donosti, which is believed to have carried out 24 attacks between
2004 and 2006.


Nine men and one woman are still being held in preventative
detention. Seven people, including Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez who
is seen as the ringleader of Donosti, are due to appear before an
investigating judge later on Monday.


After police smashed Donosti, there is no longer any other ETA
commando on Spanish soil, Camacho said.


"The operation is still open and more arrests are possible," he
said.


The Spanish government stopped the peace process with ETA in
December after the group broke a nine-month ceasefire with a car
bomb attack at Madrid airport killing two people.


ETA is blamed for 819 deaths in its 38-year campaign to win
independence for the Basque region. Both the European Union and
the US State Department consider it a terrorist organisation.

