

Gunmen killed five African peacekeepers in Darfur in the
deadliest attack to hit the embattled contingent since it was
first deployed in the western Sudanese region in 2004, a
spokesman said Monday.


The deadly shooting came against a backdrop of renewed violence
in Darfur and a day after a helicopter carrying the pan-African
force's deputy commander came under fire.


"The AMIS (African Mission in Sudan) protection force soldiers
were attacked by armed men as they guarded a watering point in
Umm Barru in northwest Darfur," spokesman Nureddin Mezni told
AFP.


The attack near the Chadian border took place late Sunday.


"Four were killed and one seriously injured while the attackers
lost three combatants," Mezni said.


He added that the wounded soldier died Monday of his injuries
after "severe weather conditions" made evacuation impossible.


According to Mezni, the attack brought to 15 the number of
African Union troops killed in Darfur since they were first
deployed in 2004. Another soldier has been missing for months.


Mezni condemned the killing, deploring the fact that "African
soldiers who came to help restore peace in Darfur should be
targeted in such attacks".


"We are shocked by this unprovoked attack," he said.


The AMIS spokesman gave no immediate indication as to who might
have been behind the shooting.


A helicopter carrying the deputy commander of the African
peacekeeping force came under fire Saturday as it was on its way
from Zalengei in western Darfur to the AMIS headquarters in El-
Fasher.


Nobody was injured but Mezni desribed the incident as very
serious and added it would be investigated.


Sunday's attack came amid mounting ethnic unrest in Darfur, where
at least 62 members of an Arab tribe were killed in a massive
attack on Saturday.


The African Union has some 7,000 troops deployed in the region
but the under- funded and ill-equipped contingent has failed to
stem the violence.


Only one of three negotiating rebel groups signed a peace deal
with the Khartoum government in Abuja in May last year. The
agreement made no impact and led rebel factions to splinter,
causing more violence.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since the
conflict erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.


The international community has pressured Khartoum to accept the
replacement of African troops by a more robust UN peacekeeping
force but President Omar al- Beshir has consistently rejected any
such move.

