

Iran said on Monday all 15 British sailors it detained last month
had confessed to illegally entering its waters, and broadcast new
pictures of the servicemen apparently admitting to their error.


"All evidence, including the GPS carried by the British military
and also the frank confessions of all 15 British personnel shows
that they have entered Iran's territorial waters without
permission," state television said.


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


During its report, state television also showed very brief images
of all 15 of the sailors and marines talking to camera
individually or in pairs. But the sound was not broadcast and it
was not clear if this was their "confessions".


The ISNA news agency, without citing its sources, said that all
15 of the sailors had now given detailed confessions to camera of
their entry into Iranian waters.


"But due to some changes in the past two days regarding the
controversial British policies, television will not air the
details of these interviews," it said, without specifying what
these changes were.


Iran infuriated Britain, which insists the 15 were on a routine
anti-smuggling patrol in Iraqi waters, by also broadcasting new
images with sound of two of the detainees.


"At about 10 o'clock in the morning, we were seized, apparently
at this point here, from their maps, from the GPS they've shown
us, which is inside Iranian territorial waters," said one of the
men, Captain Chris Air.


"So far we have been treated very well by the people here. They
have looked after us and given us enough food," said Air, dressed
in military fatigues with his sleeves rolled up.


As he spoke, Air pointed with a pen to pictures of their frigate
and speedboats stuck on to the maps and an area with the
handwritten legend "the point where the intruding boats were
captured."


"The Iranians know our position. They know that stage-managed TV
appearances aren't going to affect that position. They know that
we have strong international support," Prime Minister Tony
Blair's official spokesman said.


Britain, which unlike the United States has diplomatic relations
with Iran and maintains a substantial embassy in Tehran, has said
it is continuing bilateral contacts with Iranian officials to
resolve the standoff.


However these appear to have borne little fruit and Iranian
pledges last week that it would release the sole woman detained,
Faye Turney, came to nothing after Tehran complained about
Britain's behaviour.


Blair's spokesman said that "a lot is going on behind the scenes"
to secure their release.


On Sunday, about 200 Iranian students protested outside the
British embassy to demand that the 15 sailors and marines be
punished, exploding firecrackers and chanting "Death to Britain".


US President George W. Bush, who has backed Britain in its
attempts to free the naval personnel, has called the sailors and
marines "hostages" and urged their release.


The United States has never ruled out the option of using
military action to bring the Islamic republic to heel over its
nuclear programme, which Washington says is aimed at making
atomic weapons. Iran denies the charges.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was due Tuesday to hold his fifth
solo news conference since taking office, amid indications he
could announce important news on Iran's nuclear programme.


Meanwhile, Iranian officials continued to applaud the arrest of
the sailors and marines, which coincided with festivities for the
major holiday of Nowruz which marks the start of the Iranian New
Year.


"The soldiers of Islam arrested the intruders to Islamic Iran's
marine borders and violators of our sovereignty and made Iranian
people happier," said Hassan Firouzabadi, the commander of the
Islamic republic's joint armed forces.

