

Witnesses to the tsunami that pounded into the Solomons Islands
early Monday described how the towering waves swept over tiny
villages before surging inland.


A wall of water, triggered by a 8.0-magnitude undersea
earthquake, swamped Gizo, capital of the western province popular
with tourists for its pristine beaches and diving, locals
reported.


"It's a catastrophe," Gizo resident Dorothy Parkinson told
Australian media.


"(There was) very little warning. It was just a noise like an
underground explosion and the next thing it just... began rocking
the whole hill. The wave came almost instantaneously," she told
the Nine Network.


"Everything that was standing is flattened. It threw a piano to
the ground. Everything's on the ground smashed."


Reports said thousands of residents were now hiding in the hills
in the area as authorities sent aircraft and boats to the western
province to assess the damage from the tsunami.


"The sea is rising up to five metres high... the houses are
sunk," ferry driver Nixon Silus told Australian radio.


"All the houses on the islands are under water and all the houses
are being pulled down and most of their kitchen utensils and all
things like that are floating on the sea."


Silus, speaking about 60 kilometres (37 miles) northwest of Gizo,
said the islanders were unsure of what to do when the giant wave
hit.


"Some of the people ran out to the bush, some of the people on
the islands don't know where to go at the moment," he said.


Police quoted witnesses saying waves washed up to 500 metres
(yards) inland and destroyed houses, triggered landslides and
forced residents to evacuate.


Robert Iroga, editor of the Solomon Star newspaper, said he had
received reports from some local people of bodies "floating in
the sea".


He said that one island close to the provincial airport appeared
to have disappeared under the water.


"Unconfirmed reports we receive seem to suggest that the island
was entirely washed away and people are floating in the sea.
That's a report I have from people on the ground there."


Iroga, who is based in Honiara, said thousands of people could be
affected by the tsunami. "It's a time of year when a lot of
people are staying in the villages, the schools are on a break,"
he told ABC radio.


There were also fears for tourists, especially surrounding Gizo,
although chief government spokesman Alfred Maesulia put their
number at fewer than 100.


Kerrie Kennedy, an Australian who lives in the Solomons but is on
holiday back in her native country, spoke to her husband in Gizo
who said the town had been badly damaged.


"I don't know exactly where it went, but I heard one description
of a 10-foot wave that had gone through," she told Australian
Associated Press.


"There are houses destroyed -- our next door neighbour's house
has been flattened, whereas our house hasn't been.


"I don't think there's anyone who hasn't been affected by it,"
she said.


Kennedy said people were now afraid to return to their homes
because of the persistent aftershocks with a magnitude of up to
6.7.


"The earthquake hasn't stopped. It's still shaking now," she
said.


"Most people are actually not willing to go into their houses at
the moment, they're sitting outside because they're just waiting
to see what happens."


In Honiara, news of the tsunami sparked a brief panic, with
people running screaming from the waterfront.


"There was a period when everyone started to run. I just saw
everyone on the street start to run and scream," Australian
lawyer Daniel Evans, who is working in the Solomons, told AFP.


"But people are just back to normal now."

