

"Everyone I saw was wearing blue school uniforms drenched with
blood. Some of their dresses were torn," said Buthayna Mahmud,
describing the moment a bomb shattered the innocence of her
school.


Bloodied school uniforms and books and screams are what pupils
remember when a suicide bomber seemingly delivering flour to
nearby homes exploded near the school gates in a Kurdish area of
Iraq's contested oil city of Kirkuk on Monday.


Naz Omar, in the class above Buthayna, was waiting for the last
bell to ring when she heard the explosion and saw two classmates
sitting by the window collapse on the floor, drenched in blood.
"I was terrified," she sobbed.


At least nine children were among the 12 people killed in the
blast near the school and a police station, police, medics and
witnesses said.


Scores of pupils were also wounded when shrapnel and flying glass
pierced their flesh as children cried for their mothers and
prayed.


"We were at the last lesson and we heard the explosion. I saw two
of my classmates sitting near the window. They fell on the floor,
drenched in blood. They could not speak," said 11-year-old Naz,
in hospital with leg wounds.


"I said 'God is Great. I need my mother. I need my father.' Books
in the classroom were covered in blood."


Outside the courtyard of Kirkuk general hospital was crowded with
children sitting in blood-splattered white shirts, the girls in
blue pinafores, crying as under-equipped medics battled to save
the critically wounded.


"I only saw fire. I heard teachers and students shouting. When we
rushed out of the school, we saw pupils on the ground. Some of
them burning. It was horrific," said Buthayna, who is in the
fourth form and only 10.


Medics crowded round one little boy, heavily bruised, forehead
caked in blood with one nurse pressing his fingers to his heart,
said an AFP reporter.


"What kind of humanity is this? How can we work while the victims
are our people, our relatives, our friends? We are also human,"
railed one male nurse, blaming staff's inability to do more in
the old and under-equipped hospital.


One man with his head fully bandaged, blood already seeping out,
lay on a stretcher with a raw wound on his leg as medics wheeled
him away for treatment.


In another room, three girls sat on a bed, one with a bandage
across her nose, the other lying down, blood seeping out of a
bandage on her arm.


"We were in the staff room preparing for the bell to ring.
Suddenly we heard the explosion, which knocked us to the floor.
Windows broke. I only saw blood coming out of my head and mouth,"
said teacher Wafika Abdullah Nawzat.


Police estimate that five to six tones of explosives were packed
into the truck, which blew a two-metre (six-foot) deep crater out
of the ground, destroyed concrete blast walls and took the facade
off the police station it targeted.


It is the biggest police station in the area, a place where Iraqi
police say they routinely work with US forces and where suspected
insurgents are held in cells after being arrested.


One wounded policeman told AFP from the casualty ward that he saw
wounded US soldiers who were visiting at the time of the attack.


"The explosion destroyed the facade of the (police) building and
shattered the glass into our faces. We could only see fire and
gunfire. I myself saw the US forces sustain some casualties and
damage," he said, still in pain.


Last month, police said there was an assassination attempt
against the Iraqi police officer in charge of the centre. They
said it was the seventh explosion in the predominantly Kurdish
area since the 2003 US-led invasion.


Iraqi security forces are a constant target for extremists
operating in the ethnically fraught city of Kirkuk, where Kurdish
aspirations to incorporate the city in their independent northern
region is to be voted on later this year.


"This is a crime that should never be forgiven. We demand that
the government in Kurdistan and the Iraqi government either
resign or find a solution so that we can be secure in our homes
and schools," cried Wafika.

