

A rights group urged Hong Kong's government Monday to tighten
privacy laws after red-faced officials were forced to apologise
for another leak of classified data onto the Internet.


Sensitive personal and business data has been posted on a Hong
Kong government department, according to weekend media reports,
the latest in a string of incidents in the city involving
uploading of private information.


The website has since been blocked by the Intellectual Property
Department, which revealed the data relating to trademark
proceedings, while an internal review was underway to determine
the cause of the gaffe.


"I apologise that we had not done more to avoid unsolicited
personal or business information submitted by the public being
published on the Internet without their full knowledge,"
department director Stephen Selby said in a statement on Monday.


An Office of the Privacy Commissioner was set up to counter such
errors, but rights groups say it has so far failed to protect
privacy rights.


"The leak of company data in many instances is a breach of
personal human rights as personal data is protected by
international law," said Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor convenor
Law Yuk-kai.


"The Privacy Commission has narrowly interpreted the law," Law
said.


"That needs to be reviewed."


In March last year, details of 20,000 people who complained about
Hong Kong police, including their criminal records, were leaked
onto the Internet, causing outrage.


Although the Independent Police Complaints Council blamed the
slip on a contractor hired to handle its data management, rights
groups criticised the government's lax controls.


In September an online fan discussion forum came under scrutiny
after it published the addresses of dozens of local celebrities.


The Privacy Commission was also criticised recently when it
cleared global Internet giant Yahoo of any wrongdoing in
supplying data to authorities on the Chinese mainland. The supply
led to the jailing in China of Shi Tao, a journalist who had
posted articles online critical of Beijing.

