

French stock market regulators are analysing share price
movements in companies which have recently been the object of
rumours, but have not launched a formal enquiry, a spokesman said
on Monday.


"It is premature to speak of an inquiry," the spokesman for the
AMF bourse watchdog told AFP.


The comment came after the Financial Times reported on Monday
that the regulators are investigating unusual share price
movements in France Telecom and other CAC 40 blue chips, amid
concerns that unknown market players could be profiteering on a
wave of rumour and speculation.


"The move comes as regulators in other countries voice concern
over the potential for market abuse in buoyant takeover markets,"
the newspaper said.


It said France Telecom has asked stock market regulator AMF to
investigate a sudden three percent percent drop in its share
price last Tuesday, after false rumours circulated that it would
abandon performance objectives set three weeks earlier.


The shares recovered to end the day barely unchanged after the
group reconfirmed the dividend and margin targets at an
investment conference in London.


The Financial Times said the AMF was also understood to have
launched preliminary investigations into dealing of shares in
Carrefour, Vinci, Eiffage, Valeo and Atos Origin.


The regulators' spokesman did not confirm the list of companies
mentioned in the press report and said its analysis was based "on
volumes and unusual trade," rather than on "rumours for which we
have no source".


"The markets are very nervous but I cannot exclude the
possibility that people may have tried to diffuse information in
an effort to exploit it," Gerard Rameix, general secretary of the
AMF was quoted as saying by the Financial Times.


"For the last two to three months we have been investigating more
cases than normal."


The Paris stock exchange stabilised Monday with the CAC 40 index
of leading shares shedding a slight 0.02 percent in midday trade.
Shares in France Telecom gained 2.68 percent to 20.33 euros,
while Eiffage lost 3.33 percent to 105.85 euros.

