

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy on Monday vowed
to put "fuel" in the sluggish economy by creating millions of
jobs and more growth, in an election programme that he said
valued hard work.


The rightwing candidate spelled out plans to bring unemployment
-- a front- burner issue in the campaign for the April 22 vote --
down to five percent from its current rate of 8.4 percent, one of
the highest in Europe.


He also took a swipe at the strength of the euro, saying that
France was the victim of "monetary dumping" from the United
States, China and Japan, whose currencies he said were
undervalued.


"We certainly didn't join the eurozone so that our growth figures
would be one or two percent behind the others," Sarkozy told a
news conference to present his official election programme.


With the first round of voting 20 days away, Sarkozy vowed to
move quickly to tackle France's economic ills, saying many of the
measures would be put into motion this summer -- if he wins
victory in the May 6 runoff.


"We are going to put fuel into the French economy right away," he
vowed.


Sarkozy, 52, left office as interior minister a week ago to
concentrate on his election campaign as the candidate of the
governing Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


With polls showing he is maintaining his lead over Socialist
rival Segolene Royal, Sarkozy emphasized that he had concrete
ideas on tackling France's economic ills and that "the time for
incantation was over."


His strategy to boost consumer spending provides for reducing
social charges and taxes on employee paychecks by four percentage
points over 10 years, to bring the deductions in line with the
European average.


The measure, which he said would be submitted to parliament this
summer, would give back 15 million euros (20 million dollars) out
of a total 68 million euros in tax breaks and incentives to
French employees.


He also said that bringing unemployment down to below five
percent was an economic imperative after decades of joblessness.


"I know that it's possible, and more importantly I am sure that
we have no other choice," he said.


"France has become the country in Europe that works the least.
This is at the root of its economic drop-out, the poverty of so
many families, the debt and its deficits, because the state is
ruining itself by taking responsibility for the social
consequences of unemployment."


Sarkozy reiterated his proposal for some overtime hours to be
tax-free and pledged to pare down the public service by replacing
only half of all retiring state employees.


He also said he was considering legislation that would bar the
state from "going into debt over anything other than investment
expenditures", suggesting a freeze on government spending.


Turning to the value of the euro, Sarkozy called for greater
harmonisation of policies between the 13 member-states of the
eurozone and asserted that the strength of the euro was harming
European exports.


"When the euro gains 10 cents, Airbus loses one million euros
from its orders," he said.


Sarkozy boasted that an independent institute, Rexocode, had
confirmed that his proposals for reform would boost growth by
between 1 to 1.3 percent and make a dent in joblessness.


"We have the potential to create millions of jobs in our
country," he said.


Although the French economy is riding the wave of a broader
European economic upswing, its growth trailed its European
partners last year, rising only 2.1 percent compared with 2.6
percent for both Germany and the 13-nation eurozone.

