

European anger at the United States and Australia, the only two
major countries to reject the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gases,
spilled over here on Monday as UN scientists prepared to deliver
a damning report on climate change.


In a 1,400-page document, the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) is expected to say climate change is
clearly on the march and warn that far worse is to come, with the
burden falling squarely on the world's poorest.


By 2080, 1.1-3.2 billion people may experience water scarcity,
200 to 600 million will be threatened by hunger and each year an
additional two to seven million face coastal flooding, according
to the report's final draft.


As the four-day meeting got underway, European Environment
Commissioner Stavros Dimas spelt out the latest plans for cutting
European Union (EU) greenhouse-gas emissions through ever-
tighter, legally binding curbs.


He compared that with the voluntary approach of the United
States, which he bluntly named "the number one emitter in the
world."


"(The US) approach doesn't help in reaching international
agreement and doesn't reduce (US) emissions, because they are
right now 60 percent above the 1990 level," Dimas observed
tartly, noting that in 2005, emissions by the 27-member EU were
7.4 percent below the 1990 benchmark.


"We expect the US to come closer and not to continue with a
negative attitude in international negotiations... it's
absolutely necessary that they move."


Dimas likewise upbraided Australia, saying he was bewildered why
Canberra had not ratified Kyoto.


"If you ratify Kyoto it will cost you one third of what it costs
you now," he said. "(...) It's purely political."


Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt, whose country is hosting
the meeting, declared "unpopular measures are unavoidable" and
"it's up to the politicians -- all politicians of all countries
-- to take those measures."


The 400-member IPCC is to issue the massive report on Friday
along with a summary for policymakers.


It is the second in a three-volume update by the IPCC, which
gathers top minds in climate science, biodiversity, economics and
other fields.


The Brussels document will say that even if carbon emissions are
slashed, temperatures will climb for decades to come, inflicting
further damage to rainfall patterns, polar ice, alpine snow cover
and glaciers and also probably making tropical storms more
powerful.


Africa, the poorest continent and least responsible for global
warming, will be most exposed.


Tropical diseases are likely to spread as well, thanks to wider
ranges of mosquito habitat. Between 20 to 30 percent of species
could face extinction if temperatures rise 1.5 to 2.5 C (2.7-4.5
F).


IPCC Chairman Rajendra Pachauri said that under global warming,
"no wall... divides the north from the south."


Damage to a big regional food producer had serious effects on
food stocks and prices elsewhere and "anything that affects sub-
Saharan Africa has implications for the rest of the world," he
said.


"These can lead to adverse consequences, sometimes even resulting
in conflicts that the world can't ignore."


The EU championed the Kyoto Protocol after it was abandoned by
the United States in March 2001.


It sets the only specific global target for reducing carbon
emissions -- mainly the byproduct of fossil fuels -- that trap
solar heat and thus warm Earth's surface.


But the treaty has been almost crippled by the absence of the
United States, which alone accounts for about a quarter of all
this pollution.


President George W. Bush, in one of his first acts in office,
said he would not put the draft to the US Senate for
ratification.


Bush said US commitments under Kyoto were too costly and the
accord was unfair, as only industrialised countries -- and not
fast-growing large developing ones such as China and India -- are
bound to make targeted cuts.


Australia has followed the United States in refusing to ratify
Kyoto. Like the US, it is pushing for bilateral, regional and
technical cooperation, rather than a global legally-binding deal
with emissions caps.


Negotiations on Kyoto's shape after the treaty runs out in 2012
are now underway.


EU leaders last month vowed to unilaterally cut the 27-nation
bloc's emissions by 20 percent by 2020 compared with 1990 and
deepen this to 30 percent if other partners follow suit.


But, to European frustration, that offer has so far found no echo
-- and the US- Australian pitch for a voluntary approach is seen
in some quarters as a spoiling tactic.


In February, the IPCC issued a first volume of its latest review
with an assessment of the scientific evidence for global warming.
It predicted temperatures would probably rise between 1.8 to 4.0
C (3.2-7.2 F) by century's end.


A final volume, due in early May, will look at ways of mitigating
warming.

