

A French nun "miraculously" cured of Parkinson's disease from
beyond the grave by John Paul II was to attend a solemn ceremony
Monday concluding the first phase of the Polish pope's
beatification process.


The ceremony will see the Vatican accept a thick dossier compiled
by the Rome diocese on John Paul II's "life, virtues and
reputation for saintliness" including the testimony of Sister
Marie Simon-Pierre, 46, who attributes her sudden recovery to
intercession by the late pope.


The event -- on the second anniversary of John Paul II's death,
himself from Parkinson's -- has drawn thousands more pilgrims
than usual, many clamouring for "instant sainthood" for the
charismatic figure who reigned for nearly 27 years.


Cardinal Jose Saraiva Martins, head of the Vatican department
concerned with sainthood, is under enormous pressure to expedite
the process -- one that usually takes decades, if not centuries.


Asked whether John Paul II could skip the step of beatification
-- which would be unprecedented in the 2,000-year history of the
Roman Catholic Church -- Martins told the daily La Repubblica:
"Only the pope (Benedict XVI) has the unchallengeable power to
pronounce on such a delicate matter."


At this juncture, the Congregation for the Causes of the Saints
is tasked "exclusively" with "verifying ... all the expected
requirements for proclaiming" John Paul II's beatification. "And
no more," Martins said.


Convincing evidence of a miracle -- usually a medical cure with
no scientific explanation -- is essential in the beatification
process.


Sister Simon-Pierre was diagnosed with Parkinson's, a
degenerative disease of the nervous system, in 2001. She has
testified that she was cured in June 2005 after praying to John
Paul II, whose final years were marked by the disease.


John Paul II's candidacy for beatification -- the main stepping
stone to becoming a saint -- has enjoyed fast-track treatment
since Benedict waived the usual five-year waiting period,
allowing the process to begin in May 2005, the month after he
died.


The ceremony to hand over the dossier -- which contains thousands
of pages -- is set for noon (1000 GMT) at Rome's Basilica di San
Giovanni in Laterano.


Stanislaw Dziwisz, who was John Paul II's personal secretary for
nearly 40 years and is now the archbishop of Krakow in southern
Poland, will also attend.


Later Monday, Pope Benedict will celebrate a mass at Saint
Peter's Basilica in memory of his predecessor, who died on April
2, 2005, aged 84.


He is buried in the basilica's crypt just metres from the tomb of
the Apostle Peter, and his grave has become a place of
pilgrimage.


The quickest beatification procedure to date was that for Mother
Teresa of Calcutta, who was beatified in 2003, six years after
her death, after John Paul II himself waived the waiting period
-- which is intended to prevent sentiments from clouding
judgement soon after the death of a beloved candidate.


John Paul II is himself known as the greatest "saint maker" in
the history of the Catholic Church, creating 482 saints.


The late pope's beatification process has not all been plain
sailing. In December 2005, 11 dissident Catholic theologians
insisted in a letter to the Vatican that the "negative" effects
of his pontificate be investigated.


In particular they cited his rigidly conservative stand on issues
such as contraception in a time of AIDS, the role of women and
sexual abuse scandals within the Church.


"Contrary voices" have been taken into account in the
beatification process, Monsignor Slawomir Oder, spearheading the
process, has said.

