

Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema on Monday urged the new
Palestinian government to "explicitly recognise" Israel in a
meeting with information minister Mustafa Barghuti.


"Action by the new executive must aim to adhere fully to the
three principles indicated by the (Mideast) Quartet, in
particular the explicit recognition of Israel," D'Alema told
Barghuti, a foreign ministry statement said.


D'Alema's meeting with Barghuti in Rome and talks between
Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr and his French
counterpart in Paris, also on Monday, were the first with
European Union states since a Palestinian unity government was
sworn in two weeks ago.


"The new Palestinian government is an important development that
could favour the resumption of the Middle East peace process,"
D'Alema said.


The Middle East Quartet -- the European Union, Russia, the United
Nations and the United States -- reaffirmed on March 21 that the
new coalition must renounce violence, recognise Israel and accept
past peace deals as a precondition to the resumption of foreign
aid.


The new Palestinian government "is an opportunity that should be
seized to embark rapidly on the realisation of mutual confidence
measures... allowing the establishment of a climate appropriate
for returning to the path of peace," D'Alema said.


He said it would be "therefore important to bring a definitive
end to violence and the detention of Israeli Corporal Gilad
Shalit," held since June 2006 by Palestinian groups.


Barghuti and Abu Amr are members of a new cabinet uniting the
radical Hamas Islamist movement with moderates in the hope that
the West will lift an aid and diplomatic embargo.


Hamas is considered a terrorist organisation by the EU and
Washington.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sunday that the European
Union would not have contacts with government ministers who
refuse to renounce violence and recognise Israel.


In Paris, French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said
after his meeting with Abu Amr that the Palestinian government
must make "more gestures," including freeing Shalit, before the
international community can resume aid.


The Barghuti-D'Alema meeting lasted about 45 minutes, the Italian
foreign ministry said.


Barghuti, speaking by phone to AFP in Ramallah afterward, said:
"I called on Italy and the entire European Union to deal
immediately with this government and not to make a distinction
among its ministers."


Barghuti said D'Alema assured him that "Italy will work with its
European partners to adopt a positive and flexible position
towards the Palestinian unity cabinet."


Many Western powers have eased their boycott by agreeing to meet
non-Hamas ministers but have so far refused to resume direct aid
to the Palestinian Authority.


Barghuti said he had "explained (to D'Alema) the political
program of the Palestinian unity government. The alternative to
this government (grouping Fatah and Hamas) would have been the
collapse of the Palestinian Authority."

