

British music giant EMI said Monday it would offer its vast music
catalogue, including pop stars Coldplay and Madonna, for download
without copy protection, allowing consumers to transfer songs
between digital players.


EMI, the world's third largest music group, added that Apple
Inc.'s iTunes would become the first online music website to sell
the new downloads, which will also have a superior sound quality.


However, the deal only covers EMI's existing digital catalogue,
quashing speculation The Beatles' recordings would become
available to download legally for the first time.


But EMI added that it was working towards putting The Beatles'
back catalogue on iTunes, which is touted by Apple Inc. as the
world's most popular digital music store.


EMI said it would make its entire digital repertoire available at
a much higher sound quality than before and without the "digital
rights management" (DRM) software used to combat piracy.


DRM technology restricts how people can copy the music they
legally buy from online stores, including the transfer of songs
from computers to MP3 players and mobile phones.


This has led to calls for the software to be scrapped, most
notably from Apple Inc. chief executive Steve Jobs.


"Selling digital music DRM-free is the right step forward for the
music industry," Jobs said at a press conference in London on
Monday.


EMI, whose roster of artists also includes Norah Jones and Robbie
Williams, added in a statement that the decision had been made in
response to consumer demand for high quality digital music that
can be used across all music players.


Eric Nicoli, EMI chief executive, was meanwhile quizzed about
when The Beatles would be added to iTunes.


"We are working on it, there's no timeframe yet," Nicoli told a
London press conference, adding: "Hopefully some time soon."


Earlier this year, Apple Inc. and The Beatles settled their long-
running trademark dispute over the use of "Apple" as a name and
logo, raising hopes that songs by the Fab Four might soon be
available as legal downloads.


The catalogue of Beatles songs, including "Let it Be," "Hey Jude"
and "Come Together," is barred from legal Internet download sites
at the band's insistence, despite protests from the EMI music
label, which owns their recording rights.


Meanwhile, Nicoli added that providing DRM-free downloads would
help EMI to generate a quarter of its revenues from the Internet
by 2010.


"This deal will make our music more accessible and increase
revenues," he said.


EMI has hit the headlines in recent months after rejecting a
takeover from US rival Warner Music Group and after posting two
profit warnings since the start of 2007.


EMI is battling against sliding sales of compact discs in the
United States, which also led to a boardroom shake-up.


Warner's bid, made early last month, had valued EMI at 2.08
billion pounds (3.07 billion euros, 4.05 billion dollars).


EMI's share price rose by 0.33 percent in late afternoon London
trading to 228.25 pence. The British capital's second-tier FTSE
250 shares index showed a gain of 0.45 percent at 11,742.30
points.

