

Manufacturing activity in the 13 nations that share the euro
slowed in March against expectations for an increase, according
to a closely watched survey on Monday.


The eurozone's seasonally adjusted purchasing managers' index
(PMI), compiled by NTC Research, fell in March to 55.4 points
from 55.6 points in February, despite private economists'
expectations for 56.1 points.


A reading above 50 indicates that the manufacturing sector is
generally expanding, while a reading below 50 suggests that it is
generally contracting.


Economists said that the slower growth in March meant that
activity in the sector had passed its peak.


"The eurozone manufacturing PMI softened modestly, and it is
clear that the sector has lost some momentum compared to the
giddy heights seen around mid-2006," said economist Howard Archer
with consultancy Global Insight.


"Nevertheless, manufacturing activity is still at a pretty
elevated level overall across the eurozone, with the output, new
orders, backlogs of work and employment indices all at relatively
healthy levels," he added.


The survey found that new orders grew for the twenty-second
consecutive month although at a slightly slower pace than in
February due to weaker export demand.


Although backlogs were still growing in March they were not
expanding as quickly in recent months, taking some heat off
capacity constraints.


Manufacturers sought to boost capacity by taking on more workers,
with employment levels in the sector growing for the thirteenth
month in a row.


Despite the slower growth in the sector, the figures would
comfort the European Central Bank in its belief that interest
rates would need to increase further because overall economic
growth remains firm, said Unicredit economist Aurelio Maccario.


"Despite some softness in the manufacturing sector likely to
persist for some months, we think that the eurozone will nicely
grow above trend this year, underpinning ... a hawkish stance on
the part of the central bank," he said.


"We expect the ECB to hike rates three more times by the end of
the year," he added.


The ECB raised its key interest rates to a five-and-a-half-year
high point of 3.75 percent last month to keep a lid on inflation
in the bloc.

