

Suspected Sunni militants executed 21 Shiite workers north of
Baghdad and killed 12 people in Kirkuk on Monday as insurgents
stepped up their fight outside the capital away from a US
military crackdown.


Travelling in three minibuses, the workers drove straight into an
ambush on the main road out of Baghdad to the neighbouring Diyala
province, now the second most dangerous part of the country in
the ever shifting warfare.


The 21 Shiites, together with six Kurdish colleagues who were
also snatched but who are still missing, worked in Baghdad's
popular Shorja market where 60 people were killed in a double
suicide bombing last Thursday.


Officials said they were snatched late Sunday and driven away to
an unknown destination. Medics said their handcuffed and
blindfolded bodies were found near a water treatment plant in
Morariyah village in Diyala after daybreak.


"There were six more workers who were kidnapped and are still
missing," an official told AFP by telephone from Diyala.


He said the Shiites were from Jaizan al-Imam village in Diyala,
where presumed Sunni extremists have stepped up their attacks on
Shiites.


In the Shiite town of Khalis in the same province, a roadside
bomb killed five people and wounded 23, including 16 women, on
Monday, police said.


Coordinated bomb attacks in a market in the same town last
Thursday left more than 40 people dead.


Dozens of people are kidnapped and executed every week by armed
gangs from Iraq's rival Shiite and Sunni communities.


Such sectarian killings were particularly prevalent in Baghdad,
but US commanders have reported a reduction in the death toll
since launching a massive security crackdown with Iraqi troops
designed to stabilise the capital.


Although US diplomats say violence has dropped 25 percent in
Baghdad since the crackdown began on February 14, Iraqi figures
show the nationwide death toll rose by 15 percent in March as
insurgents increasingly act elsewhere.


In the northern oil city of Kirkuk, a suicide bomber blew up a
truck near a primary school and police station killing 12 people,
including a baby.


Another 178 people were wounded in the blast that caused
extensive damage at a time when US troops were apparently
visiting the police station, Kirkuk district police commander
Major General Torhan Yussef Abdul Rahman said.


Many of the wounded were pupils at the nearby school and local
residents, after the suicide bomber blew up the truck outside the
criminal investigations department in the north Kirkuk district
of Rahimawa, Rahman said.


Ambulances in the city used loudspeakers to call on people to go
to hospitals to donate blood following the attack, an AFP
correspondent reported.


Insurgent attacks are common in Kirkuk, which sits atop a third
of the country's oil resources and is home to a fractious ethnic
and sectarian mix.


Longstanding Kurdish demands for the city to be incorporated into
their autonomous northern region are to be put to a referendum by
the end of the year.


Another two civilians and an Iraqi soldier were killed in
bombings in south Baghdad, but the deadlier violence elsewhere
dented boasts of progress in restoring security made by US
congressmen visiting the capital.


Over the weekend, two coordinated roadside bomb attacks in
southwest Baghdad also killed six US soldiers, four of them in
the second blast targeting a response team scrambled to the site
of the first deadly explosion.


Insurgents frequently use such tactics against the Iraqi security
forces but such coordinated bombings against US forces have been
less common.


Yet US White House hopeful and Republican Senator John McCain
boasted to a group of reporters on Sunday about "encouraging
signs" on the capital's streets where he and three colleagues
walked and shopped in the Bab Sharqi market.


On a trip directed at American voters, the congressmen were
adamant about the positives of the crackdown and lashed out at
Democrats for trying to force a US withdrawal and the media for
negative reporting.


"The American people are not getting the full picture of what's
happening here," he charged. "They're not getting the full
picture of the drop in murders."

