

Saudi reformists have sent a petition to King Abdullah calling
for the establishment of an Islam-based constitutional monarchy
in the oil-rich kingdom, one of the 99 signatories said on
Monday.


The petition was also sent on Sunday to 15 leading members of the
Al-Saud ruling family, including Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdul
Aziz and Interior Minister Prince Nayef, writer Mohammed bin
Hudeijan al-Harbi told AFP.


The signatories, who call themselves "advocates of a civil
society" and include five women, demanded the introduction of a
parliament "elected by all adults, men and women" in ultra-
conservative Saudi Arabia.


As a first step, they proposed electing half the members of the
Shura Council, an all-male advisory body whose 150 members are
named by the king.


They demanded the promulgation of laws to "combat poverty" and
institute a fair distribution of resources, complaining of a
"huge disparity" in apportioning the kingdom's vast wealth.


The reformists called for "issuing a code recognizing the rights
granted by sharia (Islamic law), which guarantees freedom of
opinion, expression and assembly."


Other demands included the promulgation of an "effective law"
regulating the creation of independent civil associations.


They also called for moves to enhance the independence of the
judiciary such as open trials, and the separation of the powerful
interior ministry into two ministries -- one in charge of local
government and the other of security.


The signatories, from different walks of life, included some of
the dozen activists who were arrested in March 2004 after putting
their names to a petition also demanding a constitutional
monarchy.


Three of those were put on trial and spent 17 months in jail
before being pardoned by Abdullah when he rose to the throne in
August 2005 after the death of King Fahd.


"We believe that King Abdullah is the most prominent advocate of
reform in Saudi Arabia," Harbi said, explaining why the
signatories thought they stood a better chance than before of
eliciting a sympathetic response.


"Our demands confirm the legitimacy of the honorable ruling
family and propose public and peaceful action to ... build a
modern state based on an Islamic constitution," Harbi said.


However, he said, the signatories decided to send the petition by
mail rather than request an audience with the king because past
experience suggested they stood little chance of being granted a
meeting.


It was not immediately clear if the message had already reached
the king.


Harbi said four of the signatories were in detention and he
believed they had been arrested as "a preemptive strike against
the statement."


Three of those detained were among 10 people arrested in early
February whom the interior ministry said at the time were held on
suspicion of collecting money to fund terror-related activities.


"Everything is possible," Harbi said when asked if he did not
fear further arrests.


Saudi Arabia has a basic statute of government based on sharia,
which serves as a constitution.


The oil powerhouse has under Abdullah, who was de facto ruler for
10 years before becoming king, taken small steps toward reform,
including male-only elections to pick half the members of
municipal councils in 2005.

