

Thailand's premier started a visit to Japan Monday to sign a
free-trade agreement with his country's top investor, easing the
international isolation of the kingdom since last year's coup.


Army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont will sign the
deal on Tuesday, which Thailand hopes will boost investment from
Japan but was fiercely opposed by environmental activists.


The agreement was negotiated by Thailand's elected prime minister
Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted in a September military coup
that triggered international condemnation.


But Japan, which has historic political and economic ties with
Thailand, has since resumed full-fledged contacts with the
kingdom, accepting the junta's promises that it will hold
elections in December.


Surayud, who arrived Monday afternoon at Tokyo's Narita airport,
"will be received as a regular prime minister and we will
continue normal relations," a Japanese foreign ministry official
said.


By contrast, Surayud has not visited any Western countries since
the coup and Thailand's free-trade negotiations have stalemated
with the United States.


Surayud is due to sign the trade pact with Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe on Tuesday. He is also due to meet with Japanese business
officials and have an audience with Emperor Akihito and Empress
Michiko during his four-day visit.


Speaking to Japanese reporters in Bangkok ahead of his visit,
Surayud said he would explain to Abe about "Thailand's political
situation, which Japan worries about."


The trade deal comes as many Japanese and foreign investors voice
concern about a nationalist streak in Thailand's economic
policies since the ousting of Thaksin, a business-friendly
tycoon.


Thailand in December imposed currency controls that briefly sent
the Bangkok market into a tailspin.


Surayud "is surely visiting to reassure that the situation is
stable in Thailand," said Koji Okamoto, professor emeritus of
Asian studies at Osaka International University.


"He is worried that Japanese companies are restraining previously
aggressive investment and are turning their eyes to Vietnam.
Also, Japan increasingly has its eyes on India for its auto
industry," he added.


Under the agreement, Japan and Thailand will lift tariffs on 90
percent of trade in 10 years and Bangkok has vowed to step up
transparency and legal protections to help Japanese investors.


But anti-globalisation activists -- some of whom were part of
protests against Thaksin -- have lashed out against the deal.


The activists say the deal will turn Thailand into a dumping
ground, with Japan allowed to send toxic waste and to patent
genetically modified micro-organisms in Thailand.


Japan has long relied on Bangkok as a commercial hub and has warm
ties with Thailand, which unlike many other Asian countries has
little historical baggage with Tokyo.


"I think Japan's foreign policy towards the current regime in
Thailand is about trying not to have a problematic relationship,
no matter how unpleasant (the regime) may be," Okamoto said.


Japan, the world's second largest economy, has been seeking a
growing number of bilateral free-trade deals amid the breakdown
in global liberalisation talks.


Japan signed its first free-trade agreement with Singapore in
2002 and has since signed pacts with fellow Southeast Asian
nations Malaysia and Philippines.


It has also reached a framework accord with Indonesia and signed
deals with Chile and Mexico.

