

Argentina brushed away British diplomatic overtures and accused
London of "arrogance" as the two countries on Monday marked the
outbreak of their war over the Falkland Islands 25 years ago.


While British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett voiced
"continuing regret" over the loss of life on both sides of the
conflict in the South Atlantic, her Argentinian counterpart
condemned what he described as the insensitive military
triumphalism of London's commemorative plans.


"What they want to do is not what (Tony Blair) called a
commemoration, but a triumphant military parade, a typical
gesture of arrogance," Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana said on
Sunday.


His remarks capped a week of Argentine salvos over the Falklands,
known here by their Spanish name, the Malvinas.


Argentina unilaterally canceled a bilateral oil exploration
agreement with Britain and announced sanctions against companies
exploring in the disputed area.


As much as 60 billion barrels of crude lie in ocean-bed
structures around the archipelago.


Britain and Argentina waged a two-month long war after
Argentina's military government, headed by General Leopoldo
Galtieri, invaded the remote South Atlantic islands, 480
kilometres (300 miles) off its coast, on April 2, 1982.


More than 900 people died -- including 649 Argentinian and 255
British troops and three islanders -- during air, land and sea
hostilities.


In a statement on the eve of the invasion anniversary, Beckett
had stressed London's commitment to "constructive" ties with
Buenos Aires, and announced an offer for families of dead
Argentine soldiers to hold a memorial ceremony on the islands
towards the end of the year.


Galtieri's right-wing military regime attacked the Falklands to
draw attention away from a slumping economy and human rights
violations.


Initially the tactic worked, with Argentines from across the
political spectrum cheering the military on.


Twelve thousand kilometres (8,000 miles) away, Britain's then
prime minister Margaret Thatcher, whose "Iron Lady" reputation
was forged during the crisis, sent in 110 ships and 28,000
military personnel to retake the islands and liberate the around
3,000 inhabitants.


The resulting Argentine military loss proved so humiliating that
the Galtieri regime collapsed and democracy returned the
following year.


Taiana admitted the war was "a tragic event and a mistake," but
insisted it did not alter the validity of Argentina's claims to
sovereignty over the Falklands which date back to the early 19th
century.


And he blasted London for what it described as "its repeated
refusal to comply with an international mandate on beginning
talks" about the future of the islands.


"There can be no doubt that our demands are peaceful but firm,"
Taiana said. "And being firm means demanding that Britain comply
with its international obligations."


Britain insists that Falklanders first have to vote for the
British withdrawal at a referendum, a plebiscite that has yet to
take place. The majority of the population of the islands is
firmly pro-British.


The two countries reestablished diplomatic relations in 1990 but,
despite efforts at reconciliation in recent years, relations
remain problematic and Argentina rejected an invitation to a
joint commemoration service in London to mark the 25th
anniversary of the conflict.


Argentine President Nestor Kirchner was expected to attend a
commemorative ceremony in the town of Ushuaia, in the south of
the country, organized by veterans of the war.


London is remembering the anniversary of the conflict with a
series of events in the coming weeks, including exhibitions,
veterans' reunion dinners and church memorials.


Thatcher, now 81 years old and in poor health, is among those
taking part in the events, which will climax on June 14, the date
in 1982 when Argentina surrendered to Britain.

