

Direct negotiations are taking place with the group which
abducted a Scottish oil worker in Nigeria, the company which
manages the offshore rig he was seized from said Monday.


Gordon Gray was seized from the Bulford Dolphin rig in the
western Niger Delta Saturday.


A spokesman for Dolphin Drilling, the Scottish company which
manages the rig, told AFP that the negotiations were happening
through Nigerian oil company Peak, its operator.


"We know that they have made contact with the abductors and are
working to secure a release," he added.


"They have spoken directly to the man abducted by phone and I
believe they are now face-to-face."


He added that he did not know which group had abducted the man,
although an industry source has claimed it was local people.


Britain's Foreign Office has said that high commission staff in
Nigeria are in contact with Nigerian officials and striving to
secure his release.


"Our discussions and efforts are continuing," a spokeswoman said.


Dolphin Drilling say that the Scot, who according to unconfirmed
reports was seized with another foreign national, was captured
after an armed group boarded a guard vessel protecting the rig
off the coast of Bayelsa state.


They used the guard vessel to gain access to the rig before
leaving the scene in small boats with Gray.


The incident is the latest in a spate of kidnappings in oil-rich
but cripplingly poor area.


Last June, six Britons, an American and a Canadian were kidnapped
from the Bulford Dolphin rig and released two days later.


Since the start of this year, about 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in southern Nigeria, as many as were abducted during
the whole of 2006. The latest, two Lebanese, were seized in
Bayelsa Stateon Monday, police said.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, were
abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom money
and armed groups with a political agenda.


Groups such as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger
Delta (MEND), which recently held two Italian hostages for three
months, say they are seeking a fairer distribution of Nigeria's
oil revenues.

