

A suicide bomber slaughtered a group of nine children in the
northern oil city of Kirkuk and suspected Sunni militants
executed 21 Shiite workers as bloodshed in Iraq raged on Monday.


The bomber blew up his truck full of flour and explosives near a
primary school and police station in Kirkuk, killing a total 12
people, including the nine children, police and medics said.


Another 178 people were wounded in the blast that caused
extensive damage at a time when US troops were visiting the
police station, Kirkuk district police commander Major General
Torhan Yussef Abdul Rahman said.


Just one policeman was among the dead. The other two victims were
women, accident and emergency doctor Abdullah Mahmud told AFP.


Many of the casualties were pupils at the nearby school and local
residents, after the suicide bomber blew up the truck outside the
criminal investigations department in the predominantly Kurdish
district of Rahimawa, Rahman said.


The suicide bomber was driving a truck packed with supplies of
flour before he blew up his deadly charge, police said.


It was the second such attack in northern Iraq in less than a
week, as insurgents seemingly take advantage of food rationing to
lull civilians into a false sense of security before unleashing
carnage.


Last Tuesday, at least 85 people were killed when a suicide truck
bomb rigged with explosives underneath sackloads of flour blew up
in a Shiite area of the town of Tal Afar, prompting a revenge
massacre of Sunni Arab men.


Fifth year schoolgirl Naz Omar, who sustained shrapnel wounds to
her head and legs, described the horrific scene after the blast.


"We were at the last lesson and we heard the explosion. I saw two
of my class mates sitting near the window. They fell on the
floor, drenched in blood," Omar told AFP.


"They could not speak. I was terrified. I said God is Great. I
need my mother. I need my father," she said adding that books in
the classroom were covered in blood.


Fourth year pupil Buthayna Mahmud said she saw some classmates
burning.


"It was horrific. Everyone I saw was wearing the blue school
uniform drenched with blood."


A wounded policeman said US troops had also suffered casualties
in the attack but there was no immediate confirmation from the US
military.


An AFP correspondent saw television footage of five wounded
American troops, including two who were tied on stretchers. One
of them had a bandaged head.


Insurgent attacks are common in Kirkuk, which sits atop a third
of the country's oil resources and is home to a fractious ethnic
and sectarian mix.


Longstanding Kurdish demands for the city to be incorporated into
their autonomous region in northern Iraq are due to be put to a
referendum before the end of the year.


In another brutal attack, suspected Sunni militants massacred a
group of 21 Shiite workers north of Baghdad, away from a US-Iraqi
military crackdown in the capital.


Travelling in three minibuses, the 21 Shiite workers drove
straight into an ambush on the main road out of Baghdad to
neighbouring Diyala, now the second most dangerous province in
Iraq after the capital itself.


The 21 Shiites, together with six Kurdish colleagues who were
also snatched but who are still missing, worked in Baghdad's
popular Shorja market where 60 people were killed in a double
suicide bombing last Thursday.


Medics said their handcuffed and blindfolded bodies were found
near a water treatment plant in Morariyah village in Diyala after
daybreak.


In the Shiite town of Khalis in the same province, a roadside
bomb killed five people and wounded 23, including 16 women, on
Monday, police said.


Coordinated bomb attacks in a market in the same town last
Thursday left more than 40 people dead.


Dozens of people are kidnapped and executed every week by armed
gangs from Iraq's rival Shiite and Sunni communities.


Such sectarian killings were particularly prevalent in Baghdad,
but US commanders have reported a reduction in the death toll
since launching a massive security crackdown with Iraqi troops
designed to stabilise the capital.


Although US diplomats say violence has dropped 25 percent in
Baghdad since the crackdown began on February 14, Iraqi figures
show the nationwide death toll rose by 15 percent in March as
insurgents increasingly act elsewhere.


Another three civilians and an Iraqi soldier were killed in
bombings in Baghdad.

