

Romanian Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu presented his new
"European" cabinet list Monday, a day after sacking eight
ministers close to President Traian Basescu, with whom he has an
ongoing feud.


"The government's midterm assessment is positive but we needed a
more efficient structure, with a European make-up, to fulfil the
requirements linked to Romania's entry into the EU" on January 1,
Tariceanu told a press conference.


The priorities of this new minority cabinet, which parliament
will vote on Tuesday, will be "to fight corruption and reduce
gaps" between Romania and other European Union countries.


The new list, which was made public Monday and contains 17 names,
includes members of Tariceanu's National Liberal Party as well as
the Democratic Union of Romanian Magyars (UDMR), which represents
the country's Hungarian minority, but it excludes all members of
Basescu's Democratic Party, until now a partner in the ruling
coalition.


The head of the government's Department for the Fight against
Fraud, Tudor Chiuariu, 29, will take over as justice minister, a
key position as Brussels could slap Bucharest with further
safeguard measures if it is too slow in implementing EU-required
justice reforms.


Chiuariu will have his work cut out for him, following outgoing
Justice Minister Monica Macovei, who was well-liked in Brussels
and whose departure could slow down efforts to fight corruption.


Adrian Cioroianu, an historian and member of the European
Parliament, is to head the foreign ministry while Theodor
Melescanu, a former foreign minister, will be given the defence
portfolio.


The new government will for the first time have a regional
development ministry as well as a combined economy and finance
ministry, to be headed by current Economy Minister Varujan
Vosganian.


The UDMR, which held four positions in government, including that
of deputy prime minister in charge of education and culture, will
no longer have the trade and public works portfolios, which have
been eliminated, but will handle regional development and the
environment instead.


Tariceanu said Sunday he had sacked eight ministers from
Basescu's Democratic Party to end the "permanent disputes that
have undermined the government."


With 105 seats out of a total 469 in parliament, the prime
minister will need the support of the opposition Social Democrat
Party (PSD) for parliament to approve his new government.


Media reports said the prime minister was already guaranteed
support from most of the 150 Social Democrat deputies, following
negotiations between the Liberals and the PSD.


But analysts predict an "uncertain future" for the new cabinet,
which will have to make concessions to remain in power.


"The government will go from one concession to the next until
parliamentary elections are held in late 2008, which will
seriously dent the Liberals' image in the eyes of voters,"
editorialist Rodica Ciobanu wrote in the daily Gandul.


She said the prime minister could be forced to give in on several
important projects, such as the proposed National Agency for
Integrity (ANI) which is to check the origin of lawmakers' and
magistrates' assets, and has faced tough opposition from several
parties.

