

Shares in Telecom Italia and its principle shareholder Pirelli
shot up in early trading here Monday on news of a bid from the US
telecommunications operator AT&T and Mexican affiliate
America Movil.


Pirelli shares gained 11.12 percent to 0.92 euros, while Telecom
Italia added 11.48 percent to 2.38 euros in a market that had
gained 0.33 percent overall.


AT&T, America Movil and Pirelli are in exclusive talks for
the purchase of two thirds of the Italian group's shareholding in
Telecom Italia, Pirelli said Sunday.


A deal would be worth 2.7 billion euros (3.6 billion dollars) to
the Italian tyre, cable and real estate group, with the
purchasers also taking over 1.9 billion euros in debt owed by
Olimpia.


News of the talks nonetheless sparked opposition among Italian
politicians who object to foreign control over the country's
leading telecommunications operator.


Pirelli's stake is currently held by its Olimpia unit, which owns
18 percent of the Telecom Italia, which is also one of the jewels
of the Italian national economy.


Pirelli owns 80 percent of Olimpia, while the Benetton family
owns the rest.


According to Pirelli, AT&T and America Movil could offer
other Olimpia shareholders an opportunity to sell their stakes
once an initial deal has been finalised.


Some Italian ministers have shown little enthusiasm for the
transaction however, which could open the door to further foreign
participation in the telecoms sector.


Telecommunications Minister paolo Gentioloni told the daily Il
Messagero the mooted sale had provoked "great concern" within the
cabinet of Prime Minister Romano Prodi, who did not himself
immediately react to the announcement.


Prodi was quoted recently as saying he had "no prejudice against
foreign investments in Italy".


But Economic Development Minister Pierluigi Bersani was quoted by
the daily La Repubblica Monday as saying he was "disconcerted" by
news of the foreign bid for Telecom Italia.


Pirelli's offer to hold talks was valid until April 30 and was
based on a price of 2.82 euros per share, the Italian group said.


A sale is also based however on the condition that the Italian
groups Mediobanca and Assicurazioni Generali do not exercise pre-
emptive rights they hold on Olimpia shares.


Should those rights be exercised, ATT and America Movil would be
entitled to compensation of 16 million euros each, Pirelli said.

