

Corruption is crippling worldwide efforts to wipe out poverty and
leads to the poorest in society being denied access to basic
services, South African President Thabo Mbeki said Monday.


Speaking at a global anti-corruption forum, Mbeki said poverty
was not necessarily a cause of corruption, as the poor did not
have access to the power that would enable them to use corrupt
means to escape their situation.


"Rather, in many instances corruption serves as a sufficient
condition for the further entrenchment of poverty, negating the
potential for development," he said.


"We know of many examples where corruption robs a large section
of humanity of their right to homes, food, transport, education,
health, clean water and many other essential services."


While globalisation had created opportunities for growth and the
accumulation of wealth, Mbeki said it could also make it easier
for the rich to exploit the poor.


"Globalisation, unfettered and unchecked, creates an environment
in which the wealthy and the powerful can prey on the vulnerable
in all countries, but especially those of the South," he said.


Ministers and senior officials from over 100 countries are
attending the corruption forum, which is being held for the first
time on the African continent, which is home to some of the most
corrupt countries in the world.


In 2003, the World Bank estimated that corruption cost five
percent of the world economy, which amounts to more than 1.5
trillion dollars.


The body also says that nations that fight corruption and improve
their rule of law could increase their national income by 400
percent.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, current chair of the Group of
Eight (G8) industrialised nations, said fighting corruption was
one of the greatest challenges facing the international
community.


"Regardless of increasing success, fighting corruption on a
global scale has become ever more necessary. More than 20 percent
of loans distributed by the World Bank are linked to corruption,"
she said in a message read out by her ambassador to South Africa.


Merkel lauded African states for showing the political will to
combat corruption and added that "transnational corrupt
activities must be handled transnationally."


Speakers at the forum emphasised that corruption was everywhere,
and blame could not be laid in a particular place.


"Corruption is a worldwide phenomenon, no matter how rich or
poor, developed or developing, no country can claim immunity from
corruption," said Ghana's Justice Minister Joe Ghartye speaking
on behalf of current African Union president John Kufuor.


He said while Africa had been badly affected by the scourge of
corruption, new leaders intent on building democracy were
determined to face it head-on.


"In Africa we have not been unaware of corruption, and have not
turned a blind eye. In Africa there is a new dawn and the old
order is changing."

