

US Trade Representative Susan Schwab Monday called the US-South
Korea free trade agreement a "historic moment" for the allies.


Following are main points -- provided by the USTR's office -- of
the agreement, which Schwab said in statement "will contribute to
Korea's successful transformation to a 21st century economic
power."


- Agriculture: "Historically, Korea has been one of the most
protected agricultural markets in the world. The KORUS FTA will
create highly valuable new export opportunities for American
farmers and ranchers by eliminating and phasing out tariffs and
quotas on a broad range of products. Under the agreement, over
one billion dollars worth of US farm exports to Korea will become
duty-free immediately. Most remaining tariffs and quotas will be
phased out over the first 10 years the agreement is in force."


- Industrial Goods and Consumer Products: "Nearly 95 percent of
bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products becomes duty-
free within three years of entry into force of the Agreement,
with most remaining tariffs eliminated within 10 years."


- Autos: "The KORUS FTA will eliminate discrimination in engine
displacement- based taxes, long a significant impediment to
market access in Korea. The agreement contains strong commitments
to addresses the specific standards- related concerns raised by
US auto manufacturers and to create a working group to review
auto-related regulations being developed as an early warning
mechanism to prevent new problems from arising and to promote
good regulatory practice in Korea. The agreement also contains a
special enhanced dispute settlement mechanism for auto-related
measures, with strong remedies to deter actions on autos that are
inconsistent with the agreement."


- Textiles: "With the inclusion of the 'yarn forward' rule of
origin, the KORUS FTA will give apparel products from Korea
preferential access to the US market while supporting US fabric
and yarn exports and jobs. Textile and apparel makers in both
countries will benefit from a special textile safeguard and
strong customs enforcement requirements."


- Investor Protections: "The agreement ensures that US investors
in Korea will have the same rights and enjoy equal footing with
Korean investors. These rights will be backed by a stable,
transparent legal framework."


- Services: "The agreement will expand market access and
investment opportunities in a number of service sectors,
including telecommunications and e-commerce. The agreement will
also expand market opportunities for US audio- visual products."


- Intellectual Property Rights Protections: "The agreement
provides high-level standards for protection and enforcement of
intellectual property rights, including trademarks, copyrights
and patents, consistent with US standards."


- Labor Rights and Environmental Stewardship: "The agreement
requires both countries to enforce their own labor and
environmental laws, ensures access to legal mechanisms to ensure
enforcement, and establishes mechanisms to enhance cooperation in
efforts to safeguard labor rights and environmental protections."

