

One of America's most wanted sex offenders -- accused of raping
his daughter and posting the film on the Internet -- intends to
contest his extradition, police said Friday.


Kenneth Freeman, who was arrested by Hong Kong officers at the
border on Tuesday, made his first appearance in the city's court
Friday, handcuffed and guarded by four police.


The bodybuilder did not speak in court and magistrate Garry
Tallentire adjourned the hearing until July 3 to allow United
States authorities time to send evidence for an extradition
request.


Freeman, a former policeman, has been remanded in custody.


Tobi Lothian, detective senior inspector in Hong Kong, said
Freeman is contesting the extradition.


"He has indicated that he will contest the surrender...he wants
to see the evidence against him," he said. "At the moment, we are
proceeding on the basis that he's contesting it."


Once evidence from the US arrived, Freeman's lawyer will decide
whether he will still contest the proceedings, Lothian said.


Freeman was represented by a duty lawyer here on Friday. It was
unclear if he will arrange his own legal representation for the
case.


Freeman, who is on the US Marshals' 15 most wanted fugitive list,
arrived on a bus from China Tuesday before being arrested at the
Lok Ma Chau, a border crossing between Hong Kong and the southern
Chinese city of Shenzhen.


Lothian would not comment on where in China the bus was
travelling from and would only say that Freeman, 45, had worked
there and been in the country for almost a year while on the run.


Lothian said the American was travelling on his US passport
stating his own name. He scuffled with four police officers
during the arrest, causing minor injuries to himself and the
officers.


The US Marshals Service had said they had previously known that
Freeman was in China but as no extradition treaty exists between
the two countries, they had to wait until he left before they
could capture him.


There is such a treaty between the United States and Hong Kong.


Freeman was accused of molesting and videotaping sex acts with
his daughter. According to the US Marshals Service in Washington,
the grisly video was one of the most downloaded items of child
pornography on the Internet.


Freeman, described as a computer expert, went on the run in 2006
after child pornography charges were filed against him.


There was no information on whether he had committed similar
crimes in China, Lothian said.


Freeman is wanted on multiple counts of child rape in the first
degree, as well as federal charges of manufacturing, possessing,
and distributing child pornography.


Freeman's daughter, now a teenager, went public about her ordeal
on the hit TV crime show "America's Most Wanted", allowing
investigators to link the crime with her father, officials said.

