

France's presidential race headed into a final day of campaigning
on Friday, as polls showed right-wing front-runner Nicolas
Sarkozy extending his lead over Socialist Segolene Royal.


Sarkozy appeared increasingly sure of victory in Sunday's
election, with every opinion poll since the April 22 first round
showing a clear lead for the former interior minister.


The latest figures showed the 52-year-old Sarkozy's lead has
grown to six to eight points after Royal failed to deliver a
knock-out blow in an ill-tempered televised debate on Wednesday.


"Throughout this long campaign France has never left me. Whatever
the subject of which I was speaking, I was speaking of her," he
said Thursday, returning to a favoured theme of the country's
"betrayal" by left-wingers of the generation of 1968.


"We have two days left to say goodbye to the heritage of '68,"
Sarkozy told supporters at a rally in Montpellier.


Campaigning officially ends on Friday, with no rallies allowed
the day before the election. But despite the latest poll numbers,
Royal looked anything but defeated as she marched onto a rock
concert stage in Lille.


"There are just two days left -- don't let up the effort," she
told 20,000 wildly cheering supporters, warmed up by thumping
music and speeches from party heavyweights.


"This Sunday, this victory that we want so much for France, is
within reach," said the 53-year-old former environment minister,
who wants to become France's first woman president.


Like Sarkozy, Royal says she will bring about change -- but
promises a combination of left-wing economic policies and
traditional social values, which she pits against the "brutality"
of Sarkozy's right-wing agenda.


The army officer's daughter returned to that theme on Thursday,
telling the crowd that she did not want "a France dominated by
the law of the strongest."


"We do not want to appeal to people's dark side, but to the light
and hope inside them," she said, calling for "a new France, a
protecting France, a fraternal France, a competitive France."


Royal supporters were convinced that she had come out as the
winner of Wednesday's two-and-half-hour debate watched by more
than 20 million viewers, despite a survey suggesting the
contrary.


Three pollsters reached by AFP said Sarkozy remained the
favourite and that the debate had not reversed the momentum.


Both candidates sought to address their weaknesses: Royal had to
dispel doubts about her presidential stature while Sarkozy faces
concerns over his hyper- active personality.


Royal won kudos for her combativeness but Sarkozy appeared to
score more for keeping his cool in an encounter seen as decisive
for winning over the nearly seven million voters who backed
centrist Francois Bayrou in round one.


An Ipsos/Dell poll found Bayrou supporters were splitting equally
between Sarkozy and Royal.


The poll showed Sarkozy had extended his lead by one point after
the debate to 54 percent against 46 percent for Royal.


A CSA-Cisco poll recorded a two-point gain in Sarkozy's lead,
expecting the former interior minister to come out on top with 53
percent against 47 for Royal.


Giving a boost to Royal, Bayrou was quoted in Le Monde as saying
that she "had done rather well" in the debate. He also announced:
"I will not vote for Sarkozy".


The centre-left newspaper endorsed Royal, urging voters to take a
"gamble" on her as the woman who could give the French left new
purpose and warning that Sarkozy's "American"-style policies
could deepen social inequalities.


On Friday, Royal travels to the western region of Brittany for
two rallies, while Sarkozy was set to participate in a ceremony
paying homage to WWII resistance heroes.

