

North and South Korea are expected to push different agendas next
week when they hold their first top-level military talks for a
year.


South Korea on Friday officially accepted the North's proposal to
hold general- level talks from Tuesday to Thursday at the truce
village of Panmunjom inside the heavily fortified border zone,
the defence ministry said.


North Korea had proposed the top-level talks in response to
Seoul's request for a lower-level military meeting to prepare for
the first test runs of railways across their frontier in half a
century.


"We plan to focus on securing a military security guarantee for
railways and roads, including the May 17 test runs," said Moon
Seong-Mook, head of the defence ministry's North Korean policy
department.


Moon said the South would push for permanent security guarantees
for cross- border road and rail traffic. The North is expected to
agree to nothing more than a one-off arrangement for the test
runs.


Seoul asked last year that the North's military provide a safety
guarantee for the two railway lines, in the west and on the east
coast.


Two cross-border roads are currently in service, one linking
Seoul with the North's Kaesong's joint industrial estate and the
other leading to the North's scenic Mount Kumgang resort.


At the upcoming talks, Pyongyang is widely expected to repeat its
demand to redraw the maritime border off the west coast, a
flashpoint in recent years that has seen several naval clashes
and confrontations.


"If the North inquires about our position on other issues, we
will give our response but it would be difficult to reach an
accord on various issues (aside from the issue of military
security guarantees)," Moon told journalists.


South Korea has refused to discuss the redrawing of the sea
border, which was set by the United States and its allies at the
end of the 1950-53 Korean War. North Korea has never recognised
it.


Each side will be represented by five-member delegations, led by
Major General Jung Seung-Jo from the South and his North Korean
counterpart Kim Yong-Chol.


The last general-level meeting in May 2006 ended without
agreement after faltering over the North's demand for a new sea
border.

