

A leading rights group released a scathing report Friday
documenting the persecution of lawyers, academics and journalists
in China, but found increasing internal opposition to abuses.


"The situation human rights defenders faced in China continues to
deteriorate," said the report by the China Rights Defenders, a
grouping of activists both inside and outside of China, largely
organised through the Internet.


"Officials have increasingly tried to limit the impact of China's
growing community of human rights defenders, who have therefore
become targets of government persecution, retaliation,
intimidation and surveillance to the point that their personal
freedom and safety are threatened."


The report was issued on the anniversary of the 1919 May 4th
Movement, which marked the first popular political and
nationalistic movements in modern China, that still resonate with
pro-democracy activists today.


The report lists a series of social activists that have been
jailed or face police or official intimidation for their efforts
in defending the rights of those facing social injustices, often
at the hands of local governments.


Despite harsh circumstances facing many rights defenders, more
Chinese are becoming aware of their rights as they are exposed to
abuses in their daily life -- from forced evictions to brutal
beatings of petitioners, from land grabs to the closure of
schools for migrant children, it said.


"As more citizens take part, the community of non-governmental
human rights defenders has grown stronger," the report said.


The report was the second annual report of the grouping which
exchanges information through the Internet and maintains
databases and documentation on web servers outside the country.


The growing number of members inside China reflects a change for
rights groups, which normally draw their strength from exiled
Chinese dissidents.


"Most of the members of the China Human Rights Defenders are
inside China with some foreign support in compiling information
and setting up databases outside the country," the group's Paris-
based spokeswoman Renee Xia told AFP.


"The report was edited by people inside of China."


The 49-page report documents the persecution and jailings of
lawyers, journalists, Internet writers and petitioners in China
in 2006 by government and police forces seeking to quell
opposition to Communist Party rule.


The group, which seeks to advance human rights protections in
China through legal channels, said that local government and
police forces routinely use their control of the courts and other
illegal means to quell such advances.

