

The head of Scotland's nationalists was elected to the Scottish
Parliament with a slim majority Friday, as early results
suggested a swing away from the governing Labour Party.


Scottish National Party (SNP) leader Alex Salmond ousted the
sitting Liberal Democrat lawmaker in the constituency of Gordon,
north-east Scotland, by a margin of 2,062 votes.


Elsewhere, the SNP took seats off the governing Labour Party in
Dundee West and Central Fife, which are both in the backyard of
Britain's likely next prime minister, Chancellor of the Exchequer
Gordon Brown.


The SNP's deputy leader Nicola Sturgeon took the Glasgow Govan
seat from Labour, a hugely symbolic victory given its industrial,
shipbuilding past and working- class roots.


Labour were also defeated by the SNP in Stirling, central
Scotland, the area most synonymous with Scottish independence
through "Braveheart" William Wallace and Robert the Bruce's
victory over the English in 1297 and 1314.


As results trickled in, Salmond, 52, predicted in his victory
speech that Labour would suffer its lowest share of the vote
since 1922, striking a blow to support in its traditional
heartland.


"There's a wind of change blowing through Scottish politics.
That's evident from the results that we've seen so far," he said.


Labour, which trailed the SNP in the pre-election polling, could
no longer count on its Scottish grassroots bedrock and voters
were not put off by scaremongering by its leaders or Labour-
supporting newspapers, he added.


Prime Minister Tony Blair and Brown have both repeatedly warned
that nationalist plans for independence from England and Wales
would destabilise Scotland economically and hit individual Scots
hard in the pocket.


The SNP, which campaigned hard on opposition to the Iraq war and
Blair's waning popularity, want to publish plans for a referendum
on independence within 100 days of coming to power in Edinburgh,
with a vote by 2010.


But with a coalition likely, all depends on the nationalists
being able to strike a deal with other parties if they become the
largest party in the devolved assembly, which has limited powers
in areas like health and education.


Earlier, Scottish Labour leader Jack McConnell was re-elected to
his constituency in Motherwell and Wishaw, near the western
Scottish city of Glasgow.


Full results were not expected until later Friday.


But concerns were expressed about the number of spoilt ballot
papers, which added to the woes of election officials having to
cope with technical problems with electronic counting, which is
being used for the first time.


The BBC estimated the number of invalid votes could number
100,000.


Salmond blamed the problem on the decision to conduct elections
for Scotland's 32 municipal councils using a different voting
system -- single transferable vote -- at the same time as
Scottish Parliament elections.


"As a direct result, tens of thousands of votes across Scotland
have been discounted. That is totally unacceptable in a
democratic society," he said.


Meanwhile, the announcement of results at the Edinburgh counting
centre was delayed indefinitely because of software problems.


And ballot boxes were destroyed and voting papers torn up after a
man ran amok with a golf club at a polling station in Edinburgh.


"I honestly don't know how they can seriously say it's an
accurate count from that station," a polling station clerk, who
declined to give her name, told BBC Scotland.


In the remote Western Isles, off north-west Scotland, the result
is now not likely to be known until Friday afternoon because a
helicopter charged with collecting ballot boxes was grounded by
fog.


The boxes are now expected to be delivered by ferry.

