

Turkey's ruling party has formally submitted a package of major
reforms to parliament, including a proposal to elect the
president by a popular vote, following a political crisis that
triggered mass protests.


Officials from the Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party
(AKP) said Friday that the raft of reforms was backed by a small
opposition party, the Motherland Party, which has long advocated
the popular vote.


The reform draft was submitted late Thursday and followed a
crisis sparked by parliament's failure a week ago to elect a
president, amid widespread secular opposition to the sole
candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist.


The fallout forced Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to bow to
opposition calls for early general elections. Parliament Thursday
approved bringing the polls forward to July 22 from November.


AKP officials say they would like to rush the reform package
through parliament, so that the first-round of a popular
presidential vote could be held simultaneously with the
legislative elections.


Other proposals include modifying the presidency to run for a
once-renewable, five-year mandate instead of the current single,
seven-year term, and the holding of general elections every four
years instead of the current five.


Together, the AKP and the Motherland Party have enough votes to
garner the two- thirds parliamentary majority needed to amend the
constitution.


Many legal experts have criticised the ruling party for pushing
the reforms too fast, warning that such a drastic change in such
a short time could create other problems in the functioning of
the state system.


The key provision on choosing the president reflects the party's
confidence in getting its candidate elected through a popular
vote, without the interference of parliament.


The recent political turmoil in Turkey erupted after the prospect
of an AKP president sparked a vocal secularist campaign against
the party.


Opponents charge that the ruling party, the moderate offshoot of
a now-banned Islamist movement, is not truly committed to
Turkey's fiercely guarded secular system and is eroding the
separation of state and religion.


Tensions climaxed after the first-round presidential vote in
parliament, when the military, responsible for four past
interventions, accused the government of tolerating rising
Islamist activity and threatened to take action.


The Constitutional Court on Tuesday annuled the first-round vote,
in which Gul narrowly missed being elected.


The ruling said the 550-seat parliament began voting without the
required quorum of a two-thirds majority, or 367.


Opposition parties had boycotted the vote, leaving the AKP alone
in the assembly.


The AKP was virtually certain to elect Gul in the later stages of
the vote, when a simple majority would suffice.


Throwing down the gauntlet to the opposition immediately after
the court ruling, Erdogan proposed a popular vote to elect the
president.


Parliament will hold a re-run of the first round on Sunday, but
Gul is unlikely to garner the required support, with all
opposition parties calling for early general elections first.

