

South Africa coach Jake White will partly reveal his World Cup
plans when he announces his first national training squad here on
Saturday.


White, together with his selection panel, is expected to name a
training squad of around 45 players for the tours to South Africa
later this month and in June of England and Samoa.


England, the defending world champions, will come to South Africa
with a depleted squad hit by eight injured players and the
absence of players from London Wasps, Leicester Tigers and Bath
Rugby, not considered because of their participation in European
finals on May 19 and 20.


The Test matches against the Springboks are scheduled for May 26
in Bloemfontein and June 2 in Pretoria. The Test against Samoa is
a week later in Johannesburg.


The South Africans then go straight into the Tri-nations series
with New Zealand and Australia, before heading to Britain for a
few warm-up matches and then it's off to France for the World
Cup, where they'll again meet England in the group stages.


White's training squad will gather in the central South African
city of Bloemfontein as soon as the country's participation in
the Super 14 competition is over.


The Northern Bulls and Coastal Sharks - the teams which produce
the most number of Springboks - look set to play in the
semifinals next weekend and possibly a final a week later,
leaving White with precious little time to prepare a team for the
first England Test.


Convenor of national selectors Peter Jooste said: "It's certainly
not an ideal situation to be in.


"Obviously we're happy to have two teams vying for Super 14
honours, but it makes Jake's life a lot tougher. There just isn't
going to be enough time to get the squad functioning as we want.


"Fortunately many of the players have been part of the Bok setup
for some time now and they're pretty familiar with the structures
and other players."


As such a big squad is being selected, there are unlikely to be
many surprises.


Former Springbok captain Bob Skinstad is however expected to be
named in the group. Skinstad returned to South Africa from
England where he was involved in television work at the start of
the season and has since produced scintillating rugby for the
Sharks in the Super 14.


There is also likely to be a recall for former SA Rugby Player of
the Year, wing Ashwin Willemse, who's set to make his first
appearance in top flight rugby for over a year when he turns out
for the Lions in their final Super 14 match of the year this
weekend.


Willemse, who's battled various injuries in recent years, told
The Star newspaper on Thursday: "I'm hungry to feel the
atmosphere again. I'm thankful to Jake White who's kept backing
me - and I'm grateful I've got another opportunity."


White is expected to work with the 45-man group throughout the
season and only trim the squad to 30 players before heading to
the World Cup.

