

Asia must step up financial cooperation to cope with large
capital inflows that are putting the squeeze on the region's most
open economies, the head of the Asian Development Bank said
Friday.


Many Asian nations are seeing an appreciation of their currencies
as low interest rates in countries such as Japan and Switzerland
encourage investors to borrow cheaply there to invest in fast-
growing developing economies.


"Small open economies in Asia like Thailand or Malaysia,
certainly their economies are affected by a large inflow of
capital from outside," ADB president Haruhiko Kuroda said ahead
of the bank's annual meeting in Kyoto.


"This is a real challenge for any small, open economy. One way
(to cope) is financial cooperation among small open economies to
mitigate the impact of fluctuations of capital flows," he said.


Regional currencies such as the Thai baht, Indonesian rupiah,
Singaporean dollar and Philippine peso have all appreciated
sharply against the dollar recently, making life tougher for
exporters in the region.


Thailand has taken some of the most draconian steps to curb the
baht's rise, imposing capital controls in December which required
30 percent of all incoming investment to be withheld for up to
one year.


Kuroda also urged China to embrace further currency flexibility
to allow an appreciation of the yuan.


"I think the Chinese authorities have made the currency gradually
more flexible and I think this trend would and should continue.
Greater exchange rate flexibility would be in the interest of the
Chinese economy," he said.


The ADB's governors meet this weekend to assess the health of the
Asian economies a decade after a regional financial crisis as
well as prospects for further financial integration and the
development bank's own future.


Finance ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) as well as China, Japan and South Korea also meet here
Saturday to discuss ways to bolster their defences against
another regional financial crisis.

