

South Korea, preparing to open free trade talks with the European
Union, said Friday an agreement would bring it major benefits
including a cut in a mounting trade deficit with Japan.


"A free trade agreement with the EU will provide important
economic and strategic benefits to South Korean companies," said
Deputy Foreign and Trade Minister Kim Han-Soo.


Asia's third-largest economy will hold the first round of
negotiations with the EU from next Monday to Friday, one month
after wrapping up a landmark deal with the United States.


Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Chong and EU Trade Commissioner Peter
Mandelson will formally launch the round in Seoul on Sunday.


No deadline was set but South Korea hopes to complete talks with
the EU within one year, Kim Han-Soo was quoted by Yonhap news
agency as saying.


One of the key issues will be tariff cuts on electronic and
mechanical parts. "We would like to see Korean companies buying
parts at a cheaper price," he said.


Major companies such as Samsung Electronics and Hyundai Motor
import many of their parts and machinery from Japan.


The trade ministry said the EU is the biggest foreign investor in
South Korea and was its second largest trading partner after
China last year, with two-way trade reaching 78.56 billion
dollars -- in favor of South Korea.


Trade between Seoul and Tokyo stood at 78.46 billion dollars,
with South Korea posting a deficit of 25.4 billion dollars in
2006. The US was the fourth biggest partner, with 76.8 billion
dollars.


Officials said a deal with the EU is likelier to be easier than
the one with the US because it may cover fewer agricultural
products. The EU is well aware of the sensitivity regarding
agricultural goods, Kim said.


South Korea insisted that the deal with the US exclude its
culturally significant rice market.


Kim cited automobiles, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics as sensitive
issues with Europe.


South Korea has also signed FTAs with Chile and Singapore and one
with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, excluding
Thailand, will take effect on June 1.


It is reportedly close to a pact with Canada and in June is set
to begin a second feasibility study with China on a potential
deal.

