

The Australian state of Victoria has become the first in the
country to legalise therapeutic cloning of human embryos
following the lifting of a nationwide ban on the controversial
practice.


The southern state's parliament approved the legislation late
Thursday by 23 votes to 16 in an historic conscience vote that
immediately sparked the ire of opponents of embryonic cloning,
including anti-abortion groups.


The new law allows excess human embryos from in-vitro
fertilisation treatment to be used to create stems cells for
research into fighting debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer's,
Parkinson's and cystic fibrosis.


"We're talking about experimentation on human eggs, and some
people do have concerns, but I weighed it up on a personal level
as did most other MPs, and I came to the conclusion that I think
this is a good way forward," said state Health Minister Bronwyn
Pike.


Therapeutic cloning involves the harvesting of embryos for the
purpose of producing stem cells.


The decision to legalise it could transform Victoria into a
centre of medical research, she said.


"It now allows us to continue our work with stem cells and
potentially be world leaders in some of the work that will lead
to discoveries in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and other
previously intractable diseases," she said.


The move came after Australia's parliament in December lifted a
four-year-old ban on cloning of human embryos for stem cell
research, a law that will only come into effect when each state
has ratified it.


The states of New South Wales and Queensland are expected to
follow Victoria's lead in votes on whether to legalise the
practice shortly.


Countries such as Britain, China, South Korea, Japan, Belgium and
Sweden all have legislation permitting carefully-regulated
therapeutic cloning, but the practice is disputed and is the
subject of fierce debate across the world.


"It will be remembered as a black day in the history of this
state," said Right to Life Australia president Margaret Tighe.


She accused Victoria's lawmakers of allowing the production of "a
class of human beings to be used for the benefit of others -- the
slaves of science."


"As one MP said, in the history books of the future this step
will be the one that will be remembered over and above all other
achievements (of the government) in relation to roads, schools
and healthcare," she said.


The law will come into force when it is approved by Victoria's
Governor, Professor David de Kretser.

