

The wildlife poacher has a new ally: the Internet, say activists
who plan to tame this illegal trade in live animals and the
remains of their slaughter, such as ivory, skins and tusks.


"Illegal trade has increased exponentially because of the ease of
selling by Internet," said Lynne Levine, a spokeswoman for the
International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW).


Her group began a letter-writing campaign to eBay in European
countries asking the Internet auction sites to reject sales of
animals taken in the wild or any of their parts, whether made
into footstools, chess sets, pens or other ornaments, especially
rhinoceros horns and ivory.


"A huge portion of the illegal items traded over the Internet is
ivory products," Michael Wamithi, a Kenyan elephant program
manager.


"The impact of Internet sales is most definitely felt on the
ground in elephant country," he testified before the US Congress.


Wamithi came from Nairobi to lobby Washington in favor of
stanching Internet trade in ivory and all illegal takings, which
gets an international hearing next month.


The Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES) is an international treaty of 171 countries that will
meet in June.


Then, Germany, representing the European Union, will promote the
idea policing the Internet, where the remains of endangered
species, such as tigers and sharks are sold as poultices of no
medical value.


Twenty-six tonnes of ivory was seized around the world in the
past 18 months, Levine said. "We believe that is 10 percent of
trade."


Some of it winds up on the US eBay auction site, which as Levine
spoke showed 385 items made of ivory, from trinkets to a
"Magnificent 5-foot long elephant ivory party boat!" with a
starting bid of 30,000 dollars. The seller's New York address was
listed.


Few items on the US eBay professed to be "pre-ban ivory," but
such claims mean little, said Levine, who compares the ivory
trade to the sale of diamonds, but without a Kimberly process to
certify it.


Even a certificate of authenticity prior to the 1947
international ban does not raise the value of the piece, because
enforcement is so lax, she said.


"People are selling stuff because they think they can get away
with it, and so far they have," Levine said.


In the countries where activists have approached eBay and other
auction sites, "The ivory offerings have been reduced by 98
percent," she said.


Not surprisingly, wildlife defenders had good results with eBay
in Germany, which will spearhead Internet enforcement proposals
at the 14th CITES meeting of all member nations in The Hague,
June 3-15.


US offices of eBay did not return repeated telephone calls from
AFP.


While the member nations are required to conform to CITES rules,
Levine said, enforcement will be more difficult than putting the
right rules in place.


"France has some of the most excellent policies of all of the
international eBays but they have a problem enforcing," she said.


Not a problem for Craig's List, a San Francisco-based, community
bulletin board in hundreds of cities allowing classified
advertisements, jobs, second-hand items, even "erotic services",
that anyone may post -- or police.


With a staff of 23 supervising five billion pages a month,
founder Craig Newmark told AFP he will let the consumer beware.


"I encourage anyone who sees anything like that to flag it and
let us know if there is a problem so we can see if there's a
problem," he said.


Levine would be happy if a "landing page" popped up on a website
anytime a person tried to post an illegal item, warning them of
the legal and moral ramifications of selling wildlife.

