

Results trickled in early on Friday after local and regional
elections in England, Scotland and Wales, in what is seen as a
key test for outgoing Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party.


The immediate focus of the polls was Scotland, where nationalists
are hoping to become the largest party in the regional
parliament, and see their dreams of independence move closer to
reality.


Some 39 million people were entitled to vote in what some British
media are calling "super Thursday."


The elections come after a decade in power for Blair and his
party, and he is expected to step down next week in favour of his
long-time friend turned political rival, finance minister Gordon
Brown.


In England, around 10,500 seats were up for grabs in 312 local
authorities; in Wales, voters were choosing a new 60-seat Welsh
Assembly; while in Scotland, they were voting for the 129-member
Scottish Parliament.


Early on Friday, just a single Scottish parliament constituency
and 16 local councils had declared their results.


In Scotland, Labour First Minister Jack McConnell held his seat
in Motherwell and Wishaw. In the declared English councils, the
main opposition Conservatives made a net gain of 17 seats, while
Labour had made a net loss of 10 seats.


Analysts say Labour could lose between 600 and 700 local council
seats, while the Scottish National Party (SNP) could grab the
lion's share in the devolved Scottish parliament.


The Conservatives, meanwhile, are trying to secure an electoral
bridgehead for their return to power at the national level, which
they lost in 1997 to Labour.


The centre-right party has gradually overtaken the government in
opinion polls since reform-minded David Cameron became its leader
18 months ago, vowing to transform the Tories into an electable
force, capable of challenging Labour for the centre ground.


It is in Scotland, though, where much of Labour's political
energy and the country's attention has focused.


A poll on Thursday gave the SNP a clear five-point lead in the
race for the Scottish Parliament, which has control in areas
including health, education and criminal justice policy, as well
as tax-varying powers, although these have never been used.


Scotland's electoral system makes it difficult for any single
party to form a majority on its own, so the SNP will probably
have to form a coalition.


Having the SNP in power in Edinburgh would be a headache for
Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown, a Scot, just as he takes over
as prime minister.


Labour's prospects are better in Wales, where opinion polls and
council by- election evidence suggest that support for the Plaid
Cymru nationalists may have peaked.


Welsh and Scottish results were expected in the early hours of
Friday, while in England more than half of local council ballots
will not be counted until Friday morning.


While local polls are being watched with interest on the ground,
in London all eyes are on next week, when Blair is expected to
set out his departure plans.


The Labour leader, who celebrated his 10th anniversary in power
on Wednesday, had originally planned to serve a full third term
after the 2005 general election, which could have taken him up to
2010.


But he was forced to agree to stand down early after a "coup"
last year widely believed to have been organised by supporters of
Brown, who has reportedly fumed for years that Blair reneged on a
deal to hand power to him.


Blair used his anniversary in power to urge Scottish voters not
to be enticed by the SNP, which he accuses of seeking to break up
Britain.


"I hope that people vote for England staying together and not for
separation tomorrow," he said Wednesday.

