

US officials championing freedom and democracy are well aware
that they cannot try to silence Islamist militants by censoring
or blocking the burgeoning number of Al-Qaeda related web sites.


But they are attempting to exploit potential weaknesses in the
terror network's skyrocketing use of online media to spread its
ideology, raise money and recruit and train new followers.


"It is not possible to capture, kill, or incarcerate ideas,"
Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Felter, director of the Combating
Terrorism Center at the United States military academy at West
Point, told a Senate hearing on homeland security Thursday.


"But we can do a better job of understanding how the Internet
facilitates these processes so we can monitor and thwart those
who join the jihadi movement."


Frank Cilluffo, director of the Homeland Security Policy
Institute at George Washington University, said the Internet has
created a "largely borderless world."


"Internet chat rooms are now supplementing and replacing mosques,
community centers and coffee shops as venues for recruitment and
radicalization by terrorist groups like Al-Qaeda," he said.


To fight that, Cilluffo outlined a number of tactics for tapping
into the online community and using its very nature to US
advantage.


For one, "it is possible that an intelligence officer posing as a
sympathizer could infiltrate an online extremist community," he
said.


"Seeds of confusion, doubt and distrust could then be planted in
order to chip away at the ties that bind individual extremists
into a cohesive and dangerous group."


Other tactics he proposed included "deepen(ing) our understanding
of the process of radicalization."


Michael Doran, deputy assistant secretary of defense, said the
anonymous nature of the Internet makes militants difficult to
track, and the speed with which messages are broadcast and copied
onto other sites compounds the challenges.


"Because individuals can access the Internet anonymously from
virtually anywhere on the globe, the use of the web by terrorists
is a constantly moving target," he said.


"From a handful of terrorist websites in 2000, today there are
many thousands of terrorist-related websites in existence, with
more appearing each week.


"Our deep commitment to a free society and the very nature of the
web make it virtually impossible to prevent terrorists from using
the Internet altogether," he added.


Felter concurred that attempts to close down the sites have
proven futile.


"Attempts to shut down websites have proven as fruitless as a
game of whack-a-mole. An open society in the information age
offers opportunities for asymmetric warfare that cannot be taken
away, only countered."


Felter said militants use the satellite mapping site Google Earth
to plan attacks in Iraq, and gather specifications on US tactical
vehicles used in Iraq based on the manufacturers' websites,
techniques US intelligence can use, too.


"Know your enemy -- read what the terrorists are telling us
online," he said.


"Exploit enemy vulnerabilities made publicly available on the
Internet. One of the most effective ways to hurt the jihadis is
to use their own writings, discourse and web postings against
them," Felter said.


"We can monitor them ... follow the networks and assess their
operational capacity. We can sabotage them by infiltrating their
networks and flooding the web with bogus information.


"And we can anticipate their attacks by reading their strategic
literature and following trends on their web forums and
discussion boards."


Cilluffo advised offering "a compelling narrative that pulls
potential extremists back from the brink," but warned such a
narrative "should not be confused with efforts to improve
America's image," rather it should "offer a 'dream.'"


He also lamented the lack of Arabic-speakers in US intelligence
services.


"The ability to speak, understand and translate Arabic is crucial
to prevention and response efforts, yet US government capacities
in that regard are much weaker than they should be."

