

Florida on Thursday moved up its presidential primary in a move
aimed at giving more clout to the southeastern state that decided
the 2000 election after five weeks of chaos, recounts and legal
battles.


The state legislature passed a bill moving the primary from March
to January 29. This will make Florida one of the first states in
which parties select their presidential candidate.


"With an earlier presidential primary, Florida will now take its
rightful place near the front of the line in determining the next
leader of the free world," said state Governor Charlie Crist.


The move will give Florida more influence in choosing which
candidates will run in the election -- a process that has
traditionally been dominated by the northeastern state of New
Hampshire and the midwest state of Iowa.


A dozen states are scheduled to hold their primaries on February
5, including New York and California, which have also moved up
the dates of the nominating races.


The caucuses and primary elections are due to kick off January 14
in Iowa, more than nine months before the presidential election
itself on November 4.


Crist said he would sign the bill rescheduling the primary, as
well as another that requires all of Florida's voting precincts
to adopt paper ballot technology.


The bill will do away with touch-screen voting machines used in
some counties, which do not leave the paper trail electoral
watchdogs say are needed for recounts in disputed elections.


Florida had already banned the punch-card system that was used in
parts of the state and was blamed for much of the 2000 debacle,
when electoral chaos and legal wrangling held up the outcome of
the presidential election for 36 days until the US Supreme Court
halted recounts.


The southeastern state again faced electoral woes in the 2006
mid-term elections when officials ordered a recount in Sarasota
amid reports of discrepancies in the number of votes cast.


Ironically, that recount was for the congressional seat left
vacant by Katherine Harris, who as the state official in charge
of the 2000 election was widely blamed for the electoral chaos at
the time.


"This is a chance for Florida to emerge as a leader on election
technology and leave behind the tarnished reputation of being the
nation's laughingstock," Howard Simon of the American Civil
Liberties Union said after the Florida legislature passed the
bill.

