

Australia's central bank cut its inflation forecast for the year
on Friday, easing fears of interest rate increases in the
immediate future.


In a quarterly statement on monetary policy, the Reserve Bank of
Australia said it expected underlying inflation to fall back to
about 2.5 percent within the year, down from 2.75 percent over
the year to March 2007.


The central bank had previously forecast inflation to be at about
2.75 percent by the end of 2007. It has an overall inflation
target of 2.0-3.0 percent.


"Since late last year, the bank's assessment has been that
inflation in underlying terms would decline gradually from the
peak of around 3.00 percent reached in the September quarter
2006," it said.


"In recent months, the decline appears to have been a little
faster than originally expected and it now seems likely that
underlying inflation will be about 2.5 percent, or possibly a
little lower, during 2007."


The bank said headline Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation will
fall below 2.00 percent over the next couple of quarters.


In the longer term, however, the bank said it was unlikely that
inflation would continue to decline.


"All available data suggest high capacity utilization, a tight
labour market and strong demand growth. Based on these trends,
inflation is forecast to return to the top half of the target
during 2008," it said.


Underlying inflation was expected to rise to about 2.75 percent
in 2008 and 2009, with headline CPI inflation following a similar
path.


"The forecast gradual pick-up in inflation reflects the
expectation of firm growth in demand and output, and that
capacity utilisation in the economy will remain high," the
central bank said.


The RBA said that three interest rate hikes in 2006 which pushed
the official cash rate to 6.25 percent had mildly restricted
housing loan rates.


It said while a strong world economy and healthy demand growth
were likely to push up inflation over time, an appreciable
tightening of policy in 2006 and the recent benign inflation data
had lowered the starting point from which any future pick-up
would occur.


"Hence the board judged, at its May meeting, that maintaining the
current mildly restrictive stance of policy would leave adequate
time to respond as needed to the possibility of higher medium-
term inflation," it said.

