

The Scottish parliament got its first ethnic minority member
Friday, after a retired businessman who came to Scotland from the
Punjab was elected on a nationalist ticket.


The Welsh Assembly also has its first ethnic minority member
after a Pakistan- born candidate was voted in for the nationalist
party there.


In Scotland, Bashir Ahmad said he was "very proud" to represent
Glasgow following his election for the Scottish National Party
(SNP) via the proportional party list system in Thursday's vote.


Since the Edinburgh parliament opened in 1999, all lawmakers have
been white.


After the 2005 general election, Trevor Phillips, the chairman of
Britain's Commission for Racial Equality, said there was a
"chronic" lack of ethnic minority representation across the board
in British politics.


Last month, Ahmad himself said: "The lack of any Asian or ethnic
minority voice in the Scottish parliament has been deeply felt in
my community, but SNP members have righted that wrong."


Ahmad's win comes 10 years after Pakistan-born Mohammed Sarwar
became the first Muslim member of the British parliament in
London for the Glasgow Central constituency.


Scotland is home to only a small proportion of Britian's ethnic
minorities: people of Pakistani origin account for less than one
percent of Scotland's five- million-strong population, according
to the 2001 census.


Ahmad, who was born in India but brought up in Pakistan, came to
Scotland aged 20 and worked as a bus conductor and driver as he
saved to buy his first shop. He then opened a restaurant and a
hotel.


In Wales, Mohammed Asghar -- Oscar to friends -- said he was
thrilled to have been voted into the Senedd. He was elected for
Welsh nationalists Plaid Cymru for the South Wales East region
via the proportional party list system.


"I'm lost for words," he said.


"I'm very excited and I don't know what to say.


"I will be serving with my heart and soul for the ethnic
minorities which are an integral part of the United Kingdom and
Wales."


Asghar was born in Peshawar in northwest Pakistan in 1945 and was
educated there. He now lives in Newport, southeast Wales. Asghar
is a cricket fan who holds a pilot's licence.


In March's elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly, Anna Lo,
who stood for the non-sectarian Alliance party, became the first
ethnic Chinese to be elected to a British parliament and the
Belfast body's first member from an ethnic minority.

