

Padraig Harrington fired six birdies in a flawless round of six-
under-par 66 during the opening day of the 6.4 million dollar PGA
Wachovia Championship on Thursday.


Ireland's Harrington had his short game in proper order at the
Quail Hollow course as he leads Jason Bohn and Fijian-Indian
Vijay Singh by one stroke. Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson each
carded 70 and Masters champion Zach Johnson 71.


"I didn't really hit the ball that well or have that much
control, so it was definitely a round of good putting,"
Harrington said.


"I just wasn't as good and as sharp as I was maybe three weeks
ago, before I took the break, but obviously you need to take
breaks."


It wasn't until Harrington described his birdies that he realized
that perhaps he hit more good shots than he initially thought.


"The first five birdies, they were all stone dead," he said. "I
did hit a few shots close."


But the key to his round nonetheless was his putter, which he
used to save par on several occasions after errant approach
shots.


"I ended up using a new putter shaft this week, something that's
quite revolutionary, and it worked wonders," he said.


Harrington is making just his second appearance at Quail Hollow,
playing partly to warm up for next week's prestigious Players
Championship, but also because he loves this course.


"It's a US Open-standard course," he said. "I can see how it
attracts the field it attracts."


Bohn played with Harrington and made the better start, three-
under after five holes, although his highlight came later, at the
par-five 16th hole, where he drained a 20-footer.


"It was one of my best rounds of the year," said Bohn, who has
not had a top-10 in 11 starts.


Singh, who played in the tougher afternoon conditions, was bogey
free.


"I was really happy with my round," he said. "It was pretty tough
at the end, with the wind swirling around. I was just playing
each hole at a time and trying to do the best I can."


Woods did not do much wrong in his first round since he tied for
second at the Masters more than three weeks ago.


"I started out not that sharp, but I turned it around, played
pretty good from (No. 4) on," he said after bogeying the tough
par-four 18th, where he misjudged his approach shot in the
fluctuating breeze, hitting seven-iron over the green.


"It got really difficult out there. These fairways, being this
hard and fast and a little bit pitched and angled, it's really
hard to hit some."


All of the world's top-10 players are here, along with 27 of the
top 30.

