

Manny Ramirez shrugged off a recent slump, belting two home runs
to help the Boston Red Sox to an 8-7 victory over the Seattle
Mariners Thursday.


Ramirez, who entered the game with just three homers and a .227
batting average, homered to break a tie in the fifth inning and
repeated the feat in the eighth off reliever Chris Reitsma.


With Jonathan Papelbon and Hideki Okajima apparently unavailable
and starter Daisuke Matsuzaka largely ineffective, Kyle Snyder,
Brendan Donnelly and J.C. Romero combined to toss four scoreless
innings for the Red Sox.


Donnelly picked up the win and Romero secured the save.


The 26-year-old Matsuzaka was lifted to start the sixth inning,
closing the book on his worst outing as a major leaguer.


The Japanese superstar yielded seven runs, a season-high five
walks and had a season-low one strikeout as his ERA ballooned to
5.45.


Boston had no trouble figuring out Seattle starter Horacio
Ramirez, pounding out 11 hits and scoring seven runs in just four
innings against the lefthander.


The Mariners opened the scoring in the first, taking advantage of
Matsuzaka's wildness to plate five runs with the help of just one
hit.


Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki, who was just 8-for-38 against his
countryman in his career spanning back to Japan, drew a walk
leading off the game and stole second. Matsuzaka, who appeared
rattled, walked Adrian Beltre and Jose Vidro to load the bases.


Raul Ibanez grounded into a fielder's choice, plating Suzuki with
the first run. Matsuzaka then hit Richie Sexson with a pitch, re-
loading the bases for Jose Guillen, who doubled into the right
field corner, plating Ibanez and Vidro.


Matsuzaka's defense let him down after that. Shortstop Julio Lugo
made two straight errors, leading to two more runs before
Matsuzaka was able to escape the inning with back-to-back flyouts
by Jose Lopez and Suzuki, completing a 35-pitch first inning.


The Red Sox got their starter off the hook with a big second
inning. After escaping the first inning with relative ease,
Horacio Ramirez ran into trouble in the second when he walked
Kevin Youkilis leading off the frame.


Mike Lowell followed with a single and Jason Varitek drove in
Boston's first run with a single to center. Wily Mo Pena loaded
the bases with a single to right and Horacio Ramirez compounded
his problems by walking Dustin Pedroia, who is batting just .180
after a 1-for-3 night Thursday, to force in a run.


Lugo atoned for his earlier miscues in the field with a ground-
rule double into the bullpen in right field, plating Varitek and
Pena. David Ortiz forged a tie with a single to center.


The Red Sox captured their first lead of the game two innings
later when Ramirez drove Horacio Ramirez's 1-1 offering deep into
the left field stands for a two- run blast - his fourth homer of
the season.


Seattle came back again in the fifth when Guillen and Yuniesky
Betancourt hit RBI singles off Matsuzaka.

