

Japanese investors are expected to take their cue from US
employment data and local corporate results next week when they
will be catching up with events overseas after a long holiday
weekend, analysts said.


They said the market is likely to get off to a slow start on
Monday after the Golden Week holidays and ahead of another raft
of earnings results from companies including Toyota Motor.


The market "is expected to take its lead from the development of
the US stock markets -- how they react to the scheduled jobs data
Friday," said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, chief strategist at SMBC Friend
Securities.


The Tokyo market was open only for Tuesday and Wednesday this
week due to several national holidays.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index edged down
5.49 points or 0.03 percent over the week to end Wednesday at
17,394.92 in subdued trade.


The broader Topix index of all the first section shares inched up
3.22 points or 0.19 percent 1,704.22.


Market participants were disappointed by the Nikkei's failure to
match the robust gains on Wall Street and became hesitant to make
major moves, said Masayoshi Yano, senior analyst at Tokai Tokyo
Research Center.


"Because Japanese stocks are not benefiting from the gains on
overseas markets, people want to see corporate results before
analysing the future direction of the Tokyo market," he said.


Japanese auto giant Toyota releases its results next Wednesday
while Nikon posts its annual earnings on Thursday followed by NTT
on Friday.


Japan Airlines is also likely to be in focus after it warned it
now expects a net loss of 16.2 billion yen for the year to March,
down from an earlier forecast of a profit of three billion yen.


Investors will also keep watch on the yen and Wednesday's US
Federal Open Market Committee meeting, whose decision on interest
rates could be influenced by the strength of Friday's US jobs
data, dealers said.


Trading may be subdued ahead of the release of Japan's gross
domestic product data for the first quarter of 2007 on May 17,
with growth seen slowing after an annualised expansion of 5.5
percent in the previous term, they said.

