

Outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour party
suffered major losses Friday in local elections and risked losing
control of Scotland, but averted the crushing defeat polls had
predicted.


Blair, due to make an announcement on his resignation next week,
saw his ruling party face a fight to remain the largest party in
the Scottish Parliament and set to lose overall control of the
Welsh Assembly.


In English local elections, the national main opposition
Conservatives scored gains, earning an estimated 41 percent of
the vote, which the party said would be enough to oust Labour
from power in a general election.


But Labour insisted the results could have been worse. "I'm not
saying it's been a brilliant night for Labour but it's not been
half as bad as people expected," party chairman Hazel Blears told
BBC radio.


In Thursday's polls, some 39 million voters had the chance to
have their last say on Blair, whose government has been hit by
opposition to the war in Iraq and a series of scandals.


The results will be the inheritance of his likely successor,
finance minister Gordon Brown, and a political barometer ahead of
the next general election, which is due by May 2010 at the
latest.


The keenly-fought contest to be the largest party in the
129-member Scottish Parliament was a two-way tussle between
Labour and the centre-left Scottish National Party (SNP), which
has vowed a referendum on independence if elected.


With more than half of the seats declared, the SNP had made
strong gains at Labour's expense and ousted them from key seats
in Dundee West and Central Fife, which are both in Brown's
backyard.


SNP leader Alex Salmond, who won in Gordon, northeast Scotland,
predicted Labour would suffer its lowest share of the vote since
1922, striking a blow to support in one of its traditional
heartlands.


"There's a wind of change blowing through Scottish politics," he
said.


In Wales, Labour was on course to remain comfortably the largest
party in the 60-seat National Assembly, which has limited powers
over areas like health and education, but was expected to lose
overall control.


First Minister Rhodri Morgan said his Labour Party "haven't won
but haven't exactly lost," after Welsh nationalists Plaid Cymru
and the Conservatives made gains.


In England, where about 10,500 seats were contested in 312
councils, it was unclear how much of a victory had been scored by
the Conservatives as many councils have not yet begun counting.


But BBC estimates said the centre-right party got 41 percent of
the vote, compared to 27 percent for Labour and 26 percent for
the centre-left Liberal Democrats.


Conservative leader David Cameron said his party had enjoyed "a
great set of results," including some "stunning" gains.


They were now "the one national party speaking up for Britain,"
he said.


Significant councils won included Britain's second city
Birmingham -- Europe's largest local authority -- where it became
the largest party for the first time in 24 years, and Gravesham,
the last local authority in south-east England that Labour ran on
its own.


The Conservatives are trying to secure an electoral bridgehead
for their return to power at the national level, which they lost
in 1997 to Labour.


Although they have polled well -- and voters appear taken with
Cameron -- they are still struggling to make gains in northern
English cities.


With results in from 133 councils, the Conservatives had gained
318 councillors and control of 15 councils, while Labour had lost
163 councillors and control of five authorities.


In West Lindsey in east central England, one councillor was
elected on a coin toss.

