

The United States has submitted a detailed plan to Israel and the
Palestinians over easing restrictions on movement in the
Palestinian territories and improving security, officials said
Friday.


The document sets out a timetable for implementing the measures,
aimed at easing Israeli restrictions on the movement of
Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza and addressing
Israeli security concerns, Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb
Erakat told AFP.


"It is a very good approach," Erakat said. "It is a timeline with
monitors that sets out obligations by the Palestinians and the
Israelis and is aimed at deeds, not words."


"We need guarantees and we need guidelines," he said, adding that
the Palestinian government had not yet fully agreed to all the
measures and would discuss the proposal further with the
Americans.


An official in Ehud Olmert's office said the Israeli premier
would discuss the document next week, but warned that the Jewish
state would not be able to implement some of the recommended
steps.


"On first reading, we can already say that some of the subjects
are already being done by Israel," the official said on condition
of anonymity.


"Others are well advanced and ... there are a few that Israel
will not be able to adress because of security concerns."


US officials declined to comment.


The document, a copy of which was obtained by Israel's Haaretz
daily, sets out a timeline for implementing steps on security and
movement.


By July 1, for example, a bus service would be established to
enable Palestinians to travel between the West Bank and the Gaza
Strip five times a week. Currently the Palestinians can travel
between the two territories only after obtaining Israeli transit
permits, a long and often futile process.


By mid-June, the Israelis would be obliged to dismantle a series
of checkpoints near the West Bank towns of Bethlehem, Hebron and
Nablus.


On the security side, the Palestinians would have until June 21
to establish a detailed plan to prevent the launching of rockets
that are regularly fired by Gaza-based militants into the Jewish
state.


By the start of June, the Israeli army and the Palestinians would
have to reestablish liaison centres to discuss implementation of
the measures in the West Bank and Gaza.


The United States, Israel's main ally, has increased efforts
during the past several months at jumpstarting the peace talks
between the Israelis and Palestinians, which have been stalled
for six years.

