

Veteran astronaut Walter Schirra, one of the "Mercury Seven" who
flew the first manned US space flights, has died of natural
causes at a hospital in California, NASA said Thursday. He was
84.


"With the passing of Wally Schirra, we at NASA note with sorrow
the loss of yet another of the pioneers of human spaceflight,"
said Michael Griffin, who heads the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration.


Schirra died of natural causes on Wednesday night at a hospital
in La Jolla, California, NASA said.


He was the only astronaut to have flown aboard all three US
manned space programs -- Mercury, Gemini and Apollo.


He was one of the seven astronauts chosen in 1959 for Project
Mercury, the first US effort to send man into space, which
inspired the Tom Wolfe book "The Right Stuff" that was later made
into a movie.


"His record as a pioneering space pilot shows the real stuff of
which he was made," said Griffin.


"We who have inherited today's space program will always be in
his debt," the NASA administrator said.


President George W. Bush mourned the loss of an "American hero"
who was the fifth American to go into space.


"His ventures into space furthered our understanding of manned
space flight and helped pave the way for mankind's first journey
to the Moon," Bush said in a statement.


On October 3, 1962, Schirra became the fifth American in space,
piloting the Sigma 7 Mercury flight on a six-orbit mission that
lasted just over nine hours.


He flew back into space on December 15, 1965, as commander of
Gemini 6A, which linked up with Gemini 7 in the first rendezvous
of two manned, orbiting spacecraft.


The two craft flew in formation for five hours, at times at a
distance of only 30 centimeters (one foot) from one another.


Schirra also commanded the first crew to fly into space aboard an
Apollo capsule, Apollo 7, after a launchpad fire claimed the
lives of the crew of Apollo 1.


The 11-day flight that blasted off into space on October 11,
1968, proved crucial in determining Apollo was ready to take man
to the Moon.


"We shared a common dream to test the limits of man's imagination
and daring," Schirra once wrote.


"Those early pioneering flights of Mercury, the performances of
Gemini and the trips to the moon established us once and for all
as what I like to call a spacefaring nation. Like England, Spain
and Portugal crossing the seas in search of their nations'
greatness, so we reached for the skies and ennobled our nation."


Born on March 12, 1923 in Hackensack, New Jersey, he flew F-86
Sabres in the Korean War.


A US Navy captain, Schirra retired from NASA in 1969 after
logging a total of 295 hours and 15 minutes in space.


He worked as a commentator with the CBS News network for six
years, and later formed a consultancy company.


He wrote two books, "We Seven" and "Schirra's Space."

