

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has confirmed Washington's
support for Estonia in a diplomatic row with Russia, sparked by
the removal of a Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn, the
Estonian presidency said Friday.


In a telephone conversation with President Toomas Hendrik Ilves
late Thursday, Rice expressed the support of the United States
for Estonia and voiced deep concern about Russia's behaviour
towards its small western neighbour, the Estonian president's
office said in a statement.


Rice also voiced hopes that a blockade of the Estonian embassy in
Moscow by demonstrators would soon end, and urged Russia to
respect the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations, the
statement said.


Estonia was plunged into its worst diplomatic crisis since
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week when the
authorities in Tallinn removed a memorial to Soviet soldiers who
fought in World War II from the place it had stood in central
Tallinn since 1947.


The statue, known as the Bronze Soldier, is seen by Russians,
including the sizeable minority in Estonia, as a sacred memorial
to Red Army soldiers who fought against fascism in World War II.


Estonians view it as a reminder of 50 years of Soviet occupation,
which were marked by deportations and other human rights abuses.


Rioting broke out in Tallinn on Thursday and Friday last week
over the statue's removal, while in Moscow, pro-Kremlin youth
groups staged noisy protests outside the Estonian embassy,
blockading diplomatic staff and their families inside.


On Wednesday, the youths outside the embassy in Moscow tried to
attack the Estonian ambassador and also damaged a car carrying
the Swedish ambassador.


Estonia has accused officials at the Russian embassy in Tallinn
of fomenting the violence in Tallinn.


The Baltic state has also said many of the cyber-attacks that
forced it to temporarily shut down official websites originated
in Russian administrative offices, including that of President
Vladimir Putin.


Rice called the cyber-attacks "unacceptable pressure on an
independent country," the statement from Ilves's office said.


The US State Department on Wednesday said the row over the Bronze
Soldier was an internal issue that should be left to Estonians to
resolve.


Several European Union members, NATO and the European Commission
have thrown their support behind Estonia in the row, drawing the
ire of Moscow.


"What happened in Estonia... cannot fail to affect relations
between Russia and the European Union and the North Atlantic
alliance," Alexei Borodavkin, Russia's representative to the
Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, was quoted
as saying Thursday by Interfax news agency.


Estonia was forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union at the
end of World War II and only regained independence in 1991.


It joined the EU and NATO in 2004.

