

Ten Republican presidential candidates clashed in their first
debate of the 2008 White House race Thursday, and issued staunch
vows to win the war in Iraq.


Nine months before first votes are cast for the party nomination,
the candidates faced a grilling on US Iraq strategy, the nuclear
showdown with Iran and immigration in early exchanges.


The debate at the Ronald Reagan Library outside Los Angeles was
the most important test yet for Republican hopefuls, including
early front-runners, former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani and
closest rival Senator John McCain.


The candidates faced off in the shadow of a gleaming airliner
once used as Air Force One by Reagan, who died aged 93 in 2004,
in front of an audience including Hollywood tough guy turned
California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.


McCain, who has staunchly backed President George W. Bush's plan
to surge nearly 30,000 more troops into Iraq, castigated
Democrats, saying their bid to force the withdrawal of US
soldiers was tantamount to surrender.


"We must win in Iraq. If we withdraw, there will be chaos, there
will be genocide and they will follow us home," he said.


Another top candidate, former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney,
warned of regional chaos if American troops left Iraq too
swiftly.


"I want to get our troops home as soon as I possibly can ... if
we leave in the wrong way, the Iranians could seize the Shiite
south," he said.


Longshot candidate and congressman Duncan Hunter called for a new
effort to train Iraqi troops, to allow US soldiers to leave.


"The key to winning in Iraq is standing up the Iraqi military,"
Hunter said.


Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, added: "It's
important that we finish the job, and do it right, rather than
some day have to go back and do it over."


Giuliani, who faced the first question, immediately pledged to be
guided by the charismatic leadership of Reagan, who was president
between 1981 and 1989.


"What we can borrow from Ronald Reagan is that great sense of
optimism ... we should never retreat in the face of terrorism,
that would be a terrible mistake."


Despite Republican Bush's woes on Iraq, Giuliani and McCain do
well in head-to- heads against possible Democratic nominees
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.


That despite national polls that have 50 percent of voters
aligning with the Democrats while 35 percent side with
Republicans.


Giuliani, running a campaign rooted in his leadership during the
September 11 attacks in 2001, was trying to shield his clear
early lead in opinion polls.


An average of recent polls puts Giuliani at around 33 percent of
likely Republican voters, well clear of McCain.


McCain, once viewed as the clear favorite of the Republican
establishment, hoped to use Thursday's debate to shore up his bid
after a slow start and a lackluster showing in the multi-million
dollar fundraising stakes.


Romney was relishing the exposure before a national US television
audience, while lesser candidates tried to break out from the
pack.


The debate also included long-shot candidates: former Virginia
Governor Jim Gilmore, Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, former Bush
administration cabinet member Tommy Thompson, and conservative
Colorado congressman Tom Tancredo.


Texas congressman Ron Paul was also taking part.


Analysts agreed with Giuliani that a decisive development was
unlikely so early in the race given the size of the field,
stuffed with little known longshot candidates, and the absence of
some likely key contenders.


Several potential strong Republican candidates, such as
television star and former senator Fred Thompson and former
speaker of the House of Representatives Newt Gingrich, are
mulling campaigns but were not at the debate.


There is also a feeling that conservatives who helped Bush win
two White House terms are unhappy with their 2008 field.


Despite the early stage of the race, polls show potential voters
are keeping a keen eye on the shape of both Democratic and
Republican fields, so there is no room for gaffes that could be
exploited down the road.

