

Stuttgart VfB coach Armin Veh insists his side will not let last
weekend's win go to their collective heads after they entered the
Bundesliga title-race with a vengeance.


While league-leaders Schalke 04 were shocked 2-1 at VfL Bochum
and Werder Bremen were humbled 3-2 by Arminia Bielefeld,
Stuttgart made a late charge into the title race thanks to a 1-0
win at relegated Borussia Monchengladbach.


The win leaves them second, just a point behind Schalke with
three games left to go. Stuttgart face relegation-threatened
Mainz 05 on Saturday, but have a tricky run-in against battlers
VfL Bochum and Energie Cottbus.


"I remember reading a survey at Christmas, asking about the
favourites to take the league title. We weren't named then and
I'm not going to allow us to be forced into that role now", said
Veh ahead of Saturday's sell-out home clash at the Gottlieb-
Daimler-Stadium).


"Schalke have the title in their hands and Bremen have won
numerous titles in recent years. They know the situation very
well, we just want to win the game against Mainz.


"I am delighted we are in second place with just three games to
go, but we have to focus."


Veh has a full squad to choose from apart from suspended defender
Arthur Boka and injured Mario Gomez, who is back in training
after a knee injury.


Stuttgart's rivals Werder Bremen have a tough trip to Hertha
Berlin on Sunday and must quickly brush off the effects of
Thursday night's UEFA Cup semi-final game against Espanyol.


Hertha hammered Alemannia Aachen 4-0 at Berlin's Olympic Stadium
last weekend and having stopped their slid down the table, they
will test Bremen.


After defeats in their last two games, Bayern Munich must make
sure of the three points when they travel to relegated Borussia
Monchengladbach.


'Gladbach have picked up just one win in 10 games, but a defeat
for Bayern would sum up their indifferent season with Munich boss
Ottmar Hitzfeld promising sweeping changes next season.


Having survived the mother of all wake-up calls with last
weekend's defeat to VfL Bochum, Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04
still cling to top spot.


But they need three points at home to Nuremberg, who are pushing
for a top five finish and a UEFA Cup place next season, and can
ill-afford another shock defeat.


With some teams now playing for survival with just three games
left, the Bundesliga is entering the silly season for results, as
struggling sides desperately look to poach wins from teams
hunting European places.


On Friday night, Hannover entertain Energie Cottbus and on
Saturday VfL Wolfsburg host Borussia Dortmund, who look to have
halted their slide towards the relegation zone.


Hamburg are at home to Bochum, while Eintracht Frankfurt host
Alemannia Aachen in what promises to be a desperate fight for
points between two sides at the wrong end of the table.


On Sunday, sixth-placed Bayer Leverkusen are at home to Arminia
Bielefeld, who dragged themselves clear of the relegation fight
with last week's win over Bremen.


Friday (18h30 GMT)


Hannover v Energie Cottbus


Saturday (13h30 GMT)


Hamburg v Vfl Bochum


Schalke 04 v Nuremberg


Vfb Stuttgart v Mainz 05


Monchengladbach v Bayern Munich


Eintracht Frankfurt v Alemannia Aachen


Vfl Wolfsburg v Borussia Dortmund


Sunday (15h00 GMT)


Bayer Leverkusen v Bielefeld


Hertha Berlin v Werder Bremen

