

British Prime Minister Tony Blair says a decade in office has
taught him that the West should not be afraid of standing by its
values in facing up to radical Islam.


"The West must show that it believes in its own values," Blair
told journalists from several European newspapers, including
Friday's edition of the Sueddeutsche Zeitung of Germany, as he
prepares to announce his departure from Downing Street.


"We must show the Muslim world that we let our values apply to
everyone. That's why Guantanamo (Bay) is an issue for people,"
Blair said, in comments translated from German.


"But we are also on the defensive because we are not energetic in
contradicting the opinion of radical Muslims who want to convince
us that terrorism somehow has something to do with our
behaviour."


Blair has long been in favour of binding predominantly Muslim
Turkey to the European Union to create a bridge between Europe
and the Muslim world.


He conceded that Turkey has a long way to go before it is ready
to join the EU, but said it would be a "disgrace" if Europe's
club of nations went back on its promises to the Turks.


"I firmly believe that Europe should offer a place to Turkey. But
I also know that beforehand complicated problems must be
resolved.


"It is very important that the current situation in Turkey is
resolved peacefully and democratically," Blair said, referring to
the presidential vote annulled by the country's highest court
because of fears that the leading candidate has an Islamist
agenda.


"But it would be a disgrace, and at the end of the day very
difficult for us, if we departed from our promises to Turkey."


Blair stood by Britain's involvement in the invasion of Iraq
despite the chaos which has engulfed the country in the four
years since -- and he echoed US President George W. Bush in
blaming Iran for backing the insurgents.


"Removing Saddam Hussein was a good thing for Iraq and the world.
Now we are in difficulties because Al-Qaeda and elements
supported by Iran are creating a huge problem."


Blair also said that Europe was at a crossroads in its relations
with Russia and stressed that human rights concerns could not be
overlooked.


"Europe wants good relations with Russia. But good relations can
only exist on the basis of common values and principles," he
said.


"We have a chance to place our relations with Russia on a secure
foundation, but that will only work with common conceptions of
values."


Blair is expected to announce next week that he is leaving
office. Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown is widely
expected to take over as prime minister.

