

When Oscar de la Hoya needed help training for Saturday's boxing
showdown here against Floyd Mayweather, he turned to the man who
inflicted two of his four defeats - "Sugar" Shane Mosley.


Mosley served as a sparring partner for de la Hoya during the
Latino star's training camp at Puerto Rico and his work imitating
the speed and footwork of unbeaten Mayweather will prove vital in
the epic super-welterweight matchup.


"My sparring with him helped a great deal," de la Hoya said. "We
have been friends since we grew up together in L.A."


De la Hoya, 38-4 with 30 knockouts, lost decisions to Mosley in
world title fights in 2000 and 2003. His only other defeats came
in 1999 to Puerto Rican star Felix Trinidad and in 2004 to
Bernard Hopkins.


Mosley and Hopkins are now partners in Golden Boy Promotions, de
la Hoya's firm that is staging the Mayweather fight. Having
beaten de la Hoya gave Mosley a special insight on how to his new
business partner strengthen his weak spots.


"There were things I could tell him that I thought made it more
difficult for me when we fought that he can probably use in the
fight with Mayweather," Mosley said.


"One of the problems he might have had in his fights is that he
wants to win so badly and he works out so hard that maybe he
leaves a little bit in the gym and gets a little tired in the
fight.


"He has figured that out and he's going to do a lot better when
he fights Mayweather."


Mosley quickly said yes when de la Hoya asked for his help.


"I love to help out a friend," Mosley said. "I'm as fast as
Mayweather and that's going to help him to think when he's in
there with Mayweather. He's going to be ready. He'll be prepared
when he gets in the ring."


Mayweather dismissed any notion Mosley is a secret weapon,
saying, "All that Shane Mosley has ever been is a sparring
partner."


Mosley, who has never fought Mayweather, predicts de la Hoya will
have impressive stamina and be too much for Mayweather in the
closing rounds.


"Oscar is too big and is most likely going to catch him later in
the fight," Mosley said. "He has more confidence in his right
hand."


But Mosley also warned that Mayweather could make the fight a
boring one by adopting a defensive style against de la Hoya
rather than going for his shots.


"Floyd could make it an ugly fight," Mayweather said. "If he runs
and holds, it will be ugly."

