

Nantes begin life after Fabien Barthez with a tricky trip to Le
Mans on Saturday as they enter the last desperate throes of their
top flight life.


Nantes are set to be relegated for the first time in their
history unless they can produce a miracle escape over the final
four games of the season - and they will have to do so without
their much lauded and decorated former World Cup winning
goalkeeper.


Nantes sit rock bottom of the 20-team table and eight points from
safety with just 12 available to win.


Even an unlikely run of four straight victories will probably
prove inadequate in their survival struggle and Barthez will not
be there to help them.


The former Manchester United, Monaco and Marseille stopper was
attacked by a small group of fans as he left the stadium last
Saturday following Nantes's 2-0 defeat at home to Rennes.


He has since said he would never wear the shirt of Nantes again.


"I've gone back to my normal life but I haven't yet let go," he
told L'Equipe newspaper. "A footballer trains every day and lives
a very regimented life.


"I feel a void because you're not ready for something to end so
suddenly. But Saturday night was so violent, it could have been
so much worse that I actually feel relieved."


Barthez said around six fans attacked his car and he got out to
try to defend himself before security officials and other fans -
true fans as he called them - came to his rescue.


Now he will be unable to come to Nantes's rescue, as was
envisioned of him when he ended his brief retirement earlier in
the season to boost the Canaries' relegation fight.


But with Nantes almost certainly down, and Sedan, only a point
better off, near certainties to join them, the real battle is to
see who will be the third team dumped into the French second
division at the season's end.


Troyes currently occupy that spot and are three points from Nice,
in the last safety position.


Troyes boosted their survival hopes last week with a come-from-
behind 3-2 win over Sedan but face a tough trip to Auxerre on
Saturday.


Nice have an equally difficult away tie, at Nancy, while
Valenciennes, only a point above Nice and far from safety, have
the toughest test of the lot, playing away to Champions League
chasing Sochaux.


With Lyon having already wrapped up the title, the race for the
last two Champions League berths should keep French football fans
entertained in the last four weeks of the season.


Bordeaux currently sit second on 55 points with Lens next on 53.
But aiming to hunt down the pair are Marseille, Toulouse (both
52) and Rennes (51).


Sochaux are not out of it yet but have just 48 points and will
need to win their four remaining matches to harbour hopes of
Champions League football next season.


To make matters more exciting, four of those challengers meet
this weekend, with Lens hosting Toulouse and Bordeaux travelling
to Rennes in games that have a win-or-bust feel about them.


Marseille face a daunting trip to south coast rivals Monaco while
champions Lyon travel to rejuvenated Paris St Germain, who
despite taking 13 from a possible 15 points in their last five
games are still not safe from the drop and sit six points above
Troyes.


Saturday


AS Nancy v Nice, Auxerre v Troyes, Le Mans v Nantes, Lens v
Toulouse, Paris St Germain v Lyon, Rennes v Bordeaux, Sedan v
Lorient, Sochaux v Valenciennes


Sunday


Monaco v Marseille, St Etienne v Lille

