

Battered Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert remained defiant on
Friday after a mass rally called on him to quit over his failure
in the Lebanon war, but the next few weeks are seen key to
whether the master politician can hang on to power.


"The prime minister does not intend to resign," Olmert
spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP. "The prime minister listens
attentively to everything that happens and is trying to react in
the best interests of the State of Israel."


Late Thursday between 150,000 and 200,000 people, according to
estimates by police and organisers, gathered in Tel Aviv calling
on Olmert to resign in the wake of a government inquiry that
roasted his leadership last summer's war.


The rally -- the first mass protest since a preliminary version
of the report was published on Monday -- drew activists from both
left and right and upped the enormous pressure on Olmert to
resign.


Olmert has admitted to errors in handling the war, but has said
stepping down would be irresponsible and vowed to correct the
mistakes uncovered by the interim report.


"I am personally not in the most comfortable position," he told
lawmakers from his Kadima party this week. "But I am past the age
of 60 and I've seen a lot of things in my life and I've learned
not to run away from responsibility."


Already weakened by a string of scandals and with two-thirds of
Israelis wanting him to go, the man often called Israel's best
politician has so far managed to overcome the several challenges
that arose after the report.


He doused a mutiny within the centrist Kadima, despite a call by
a senior aide and former close ally, Foreign Minister Tzipi
Livni, for him to step down.


He has also managed so far to keep the support of his 78-member
coalition in the 120-seat Knesset.


"Contrary to expectations and assessements, Olmert is ending this
week on his feet -- wounded, bleeding, battered and bruised, but
breathing. For now," wrote the tabloid Maariv.


But observers warn that the next few weeks will be crucial as to
whether he will be able to cling on to the post he won less than
a year ago after leading Kadima to a narrow victory in its first
parliamentary poll.


"Make no mistake: Olmert's chances of surviving in the medium or
long range are weak to zero," Maariv wrote.


Olmert still faces trouble on several fronts -- his party, his
coalition, the numerous corruption investigations against him and
the final report by the Winograd Commission on the Lebanon war
due out in less than three months.


Although he quashed a Kadima rebellion this week, he still faces
a possible revolt. Many want him to step aside so as not to sink
a party that is already down in the polls.


Kadima cannot oust Olmert, as the charter of the party set up by
former premier Ariel Sharon has no such provision. However,
Olmert would have no choice but to quit if a majority of its 29
lawmakers abandon him.


And the Labour party, Kadima's main partner, is considering
abandoning the coalition. Such a move that would leave Olmert
without the required majority in parliament and pave the way for
opposition Likud chief Benjamin Netanyahu to try to form one,
observers say.


Labour's central committee is due to discuss the matter at a
meeting on May 13.


A new wave of criticism is likely to be unleashed against Olmert
when parts of his testimony before the Winograd Commission are
made public in less than two weeks.


Another source of political danger could be any new developments
that might occur in a string of graft scandals implicating
Olmert.


The full Winograd report is due out by August, with members
hinting that it could contain "personal recommendations." Olmert
has said that if the it explicitly calls for him to resign, he
will comply.

