

The number of mainland Chinese visitors to Hong Kong soared 24.5
percent during the week-long Labour day holiday despite a string
of scandals to recently hit the city's tourism industry.


The Tourism Commission said on Friday that numbers from the
mainland increased to 355,681 in the first six days of the
"Golden Week" holiday, accounting for 61.7 percent of 576,752
arrivals.


Total visitor numbers gained 19.8 percent on the same period last
year.


Official figures showed that those travelling in tour groups fell
13.5 percent to 20,996 during the period, while those visiting
independently jumped 43.5 percent to 238,442.


The figures come despite fears that mainland visitors could stay
away from the territory. Hong Kong's key tourism industry was
left reeling after reports of con merchants preying on mainland
Chinese tourists, who last year accounted for almost half the
record 25 million visitors.


Authorities have since scrambled to restore the city's image as a
shopping paradise, in part by clamping down on unscrupulous
merchants.


Li Gang, of the Chinese central government in Hong Kong, believed
such measures helped boost tourist numbers.


"The measures have been effective. I heard good response from the
mainland tour groups who came to Hong Kong especially during this
Golden week. They believe that Hong Kong's tourist services have
improved," he told reporters.


In the latest blow to the city's image, some 200 Chinese
holidaymakers were on Thursday dumped in a grotty Hong Kong
campsite miles from anywhere. The angry tourists complained that
they had been badly bitten by bed bugs.


In April, a report on Chinese TV revealed that several mainland
visitors had been sold fake jewellery at excessive prices in a
number of stores popular with tourists.


It followed revelations of "zero-fee tour" package tour scams, in
which visitors are charged less than the basic costs for holidays
in return for spending much of their time in stores and
restaurants that pay the guides commission.


Many visitors complained that on such trips they had been
subjected to hard-sell practices by tour guides.

