

US food and drug officials began their probe in China Thursday
into the source of tainted pet food products that have killed
thousands of pets and have also been used to feed farm chicken
and pigs.


"The FDA team is on the ground in China. The investigation has
begun," David Acheson, assistant Food and Drug Administration
commissioner for food protection, told a telephone news
conference.


The delegation arrived Wednesday to launch the inspection into
how the chemical melamine, a substance used in making fertilizers
and plastics, had found its way into wheat gluten exported to the
United States.


The wheat gluten was used as an additive in the pet food and also
in animal feed.


Acheson said the FDA had found two Chinese distributors of wheat
gluten and rice protein concentrate that contained melamine.


One of the Chinese exporters was identified as Xuzhou Anying
Biologic Technology Development Co.


"Melamine alone is not particularly toxic. But the combination
with other components appears to be more toxic. It can form
crystals in the kidneys and cause kidney failure," Acheson said.


The FDA estimated that thousands of US pets have died as a result
of tainted pet food, saying on Thursday that around half of the
17,000 complaint calls it received earlier this year reported a
dog or cat dying, often due to sudden kidney failure.


Still, Acheson reiterated that the FDA had no proof that
contaminated products could have reached the human food chain as
"a direct ingredient."


"All contaminated products ended up in pet food system," Acheson
said.


"There is no evidence ... it has ended up in human food as a
direct ingredient," he said, adding: "It's very unlikely there
will be any human health effect."


However, contaminated wheat gluten was used to feed 2.7 million
chickens on 13 farms in the midwestern state of Indiana in
February, US Department of Agriculture assistant administrator
for field operations Kenneth Petersen told the same news
conference.


Petersen said the level of contamination was low and had not
affected the chickens, and was unlikely to impact human health.


He added that there were no more of those chickens on the market,
without elaborating.


Similarly, rice protein concentrate entered animal feed given to
pigs in six US states -- Kansas, California, New York, North
Carolina, South Carolina and Utah -- the FDA discovered last
week.


Around 6,000 animals had to be slaughtered as a precaution.


The FDA placed an import alert on protein concentrates coming
from China, and out of 700 shipments analyzed at the border, 400
tested positive for melamine.


Asked if the Chinese process of adding melamine had been going on
for a long time, Acheson said: "We don't know. We can't rule that
out."


The FDA has expanded a US dog and cat food recall, initiated in
mid-March after around 16 pets were reported to have fallen ill
and died after consuming tainted pet food from the Canadian
company Menu Foods.


Initially the recall affected 95 brands, and has since increased
to 150 due to "potential cross-contamination," the FDA said.


Adding melamine to food products is illegal in the United States,
but appears to be widely used in China. It is not known to be
toxic to humans.


The Chinese on Monday agreed to a joint investigation into the
issue.

