

Asia's emerging economies should spend some of their huge foreign
exchange reserves to improve the lives of their people and
underpin future growth, the Asian Development Bank's chief
economist said Friday.


Asian finance ministers meeting here Saturday will discuss ways
to further bolster their defences against a possible repeat of
the 1997 regional financial crisis by improving their system of
currency swaps.


But ADB chief economist Ifzal Ali said that guarding against
possible speculative attacks on currencies should no longer be
the priority.


"The challenge facing Asia is in fact too much reserves and the
long term negative effects of this," he told AFP in an interview
ahead of the ADB's annual meeting in Kyoto, Japan this weekend.


"While it is not as dramatic as a crisis, over time it does eat
away at opportunities for higher rates of growth, higher
investments. This is particularly true for the Southeast Asian
countries where investment never recovered to pre-crisis days,"
he said.


Developing Asia should now be considering "investing in the
countries, the people, the environment, energy (and)
infrastructure so that there is a better tomorrow for everybody,"
he added.


The ADB estimates that developing Asia's foreign exchange
reserves are together worth almost 2.3 trillion dollars.


Ali said some of the reserves -- which are believed to be
invested mostly in US- dollar instruments -- could be channeled
into higher yielding assets or spent on infrastructure or other
worthwhile projects.


One country that already has a policy of actively managing its
reserves is Singapore, which set up an investment management
company in 1981.


But better returns would not improve standards of living unless
the money was actually spent, Ali said.


"What is happening now with the build up of reserves is that if
you export for the sake of exports, the people living in these
countries don't benefit. In the long term that is what has to be
really the focus of attention," he said.


Ali said the outlook for the Asian economies was generally upbeat
although the US economy seems to be cooling more than expected.


"From the US it seems that there is going to be a sharper
slowdown than had been anticipated. The US housing market problem
seems to be more acute than had been anticipated," he said.


"Particularly, the early signs that there would be no contagion
from the 'subprime' mortgage market probably was over-
optimistic," Ali said, referring to failures in mortgages held by
people with below-average credit histories.


The ADB's governors meet this weekend to assess the health of the
Asian economies a decade after a regional financial crisis as
well as prospects for further financial integration and the
development bank's own future.

