

North Korean funds which had been frozen in a Macau bank will
probably be transferred by this weekend, clearing a major hurdle
to a nuclear disarmament deal, a South Korean media report said.


Yonhap news agency said late Thursday that the 52 accounts
containing a total of 25 million dollars at Banco Delta Asia
(BDA) have been combined into one to ease the transfer.


O Kwang-Chol, president of the North's Foreign Trade Bank, gave
orders via email to BDA to wire the money, and Macau's financial
authorities said the bank will comply with the request, Yonhap
quoted sources as saying in a report datelined from the Chinese
territory.


It said O is now formally the owner of the bank account.


The agency said the transfer is expected to be made to a third
country by this weekend, probably via Singapore and Italy.


"We hope the issue will be solved in the near future. As yet we
have no official information on when the funds will be released,"
a South Korean foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.


A six-nation deal reached on February 13 offered North Korea one
million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid, plus diplomatic
benefits, for declaring all nuclear programmes and disabling all
nuclear facilities.


Under the first phase the communist state, which tested a nuclear
bomb last October, was to shut down its Yongbyon reactor in the
presence of UN atomic inspectors in return for an initial 50,000
tons of oil.


The North insisted the funds row be solved before it takes action
and it missed the April 14 deadline for the reactor shutdown. The
accounts had been frozen since 2005 after the United States
alleged they were the proceeds of counterfeiting and money-
laundering.


The US and Macau authorities said in March the funds have been
unfrozen and are available for collection. But there were
apparent problems in persuading a foreign bank to handle money
seen as tainted.


Analysts said the North wants to arrange a transfer through an
overseas bank to test whether its access to the international
financial system has been restored.

