

France's new president to be elected on Sunday is to quickly roll
out a raft of measures, moving quickly during the first 100 days
in office to make good on promises of sweeping reform.


Both the rightwing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy and socialist
Segolene Royal have spelled out their priorities for their early
days in office if elected at the helm of the euro-zone's second
largest economy after Germany.


"They must move quickly to ensure that voters have no regrets,"
said Paul Bacot, political science professor at Lyon University.


"For Sarkozy who has presented himself as the candidate of the
clean break, this means that a clean break can't happen little by
little, over five years," said Bacot, adding that Royal has also
pledged to swiftly bring change.


The first order of business for the president-elect who takes
office around May 17 will be the appointment of a caretaker
government ahead of legislative elections in June.


Sarkozy and Royal are each confident they can secure a majority
for their party in the National Assembly and win a free hand to
push through reforms following a campaign that has been dominated
by calls for change.


Taking time from the legislative campaign, the new leader will
make a first foray on to the international stage at the Group of
Eight summit in Heiligendamm, Germany from June 6 to 8 and at an
EU summit in Brussels on June 21 and 22.


On the domestic front, Sarkozy has promised to bring
unemployment, currently one of the highest in Europe at 8.3
percent, down to below five percent, and stimulate growth through
a series of tax cuts that he argues will fuel consumer spending.


Sarkozy plans to call an extraordinary session of parliament in
July to adopt a raft of measures to "restore the value of hard
work" -- a central theme of his presidential campaign.


He wants to exempt overtime worked above 35 hours from tax and
social charges and bring down taxes by four percentage points --
although economists are sceptical that this can be done without
putting the state in dire financial straits.


The first test of a Sarkozy presidency could well come with a
bill to be submitted this summer to force public-sector
monopolies, notably in transport, to ensure minimum services
during strikes.


The proposal has angered unions who see it as a unilateral move
and sparked warnings of mass protests.


"If he resorts to these methods," warned the secretary general of
the CFDT union Francois Chereque, "there will be protest
movements" in September.


In the suburbs where the former interior minister is considered
persona non grata, Sarkozy has promised to launch this summer a
"Marshall Plan" to provide training for unskilled youth and
prevent them from turning to crime.


If she succeeds in becoming France's first woman president, Royal
will zero in on youth unemployment as a key battleground,
creating some 500,000 jobs for the young French whose jobless
rate is more than twice the national average.


Her first piece of legislation submitted to parliament will be a
bill on violence against women that will improve assistance for
victims and raise public awareness.


Some two million women in France are victims of spousal abuse and
400 die at the hands of their husbands or partners per year,
according to the organisation SOS Women's Shelter (SOS Femmes
Accueil).


Royal wants to convene an employer-union conference in June that
will tackle a broad gamut of economic issues, from wages to
pension reform and also, the 35-hour workweek.


The 53-year-old former environment minister has also pledged to
reform the institutions of government to bring them closer to the
people, reducing the powers of the presidency and giving
parliament greater oversight.


A referendum on the new institutions of the Sixth Republic would
take place in September under President Royal.

