

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II was Friday to tour the marshy, bug-
infested site on the Virginia coast where 400 years ago this
month, a band of English pioneers changed the course of history.


The 104 ill-prepared men and boys who founded the New World's
first permanent English settlement set in motion the creation of
the United States, but also brought unrivaled bloodshed to Native
American tribes.


The queen and her husband, Prince Philip, began Thursday their
fourth state visit to the United States and their first since
1991.


The six-day trip will take in a day at the races at the Kentucky
Derby on Saturday, and a White House state dinner with President
George W. Bush on Monday.


The queen visited the Jamestown settlement 50 years ago, when
Virginia was deeply segregated between black and white, and the
350th anniversary was devoted exclusively to the advent of
European culture in North America.


"With the benefit of hindsight, we can see in that event the
origins of a singular endeavor -- the building of a great nation,
founded on the eternal values of democracy and equality based on
the rule of law and the promotion of freedom," she said in a
speech Thursday to Virginia legislators.


"But 50 years on we are now in a position to reflect more
candidly on the Jamestown legacy. Human progress rarely comes
without cost," the queen said.


"And those early years in Jamestown, when three great
civilizations came together for the first time -- Western
European, Native American and African -- released a train of
events which continues to have a profound social impact, not only
in the United States but also in the United Kingdom and Europe."


The settlers sent by the Virginia Company of London set up camp
on May 14, 1607 on an inhospitable island along what is now the
James River. They sought safe haven from marauding Spaniards and
a route to Oriental treasures.


Instead they found disease, drought and hostile natives whose
fate would forever be altered by the Jamestown settlement, which
was also responsible for the advent of African slaves in North
America.


But in her speech, the queen said historical reassessments should
not "obscure" the epoch-making impact of the settlement, which
brought English notions of law, democracy and free enterprise to
the New World.


She stressed that the Anglo-US friendship was "one of the most
durable international collaborations anywhere in the world at any
time in history."


On Friday, the royal couple were to tour the Jamestown fort
before the queen visits the nearby College of William and Mary,
the second-oldest US university founded by royal charter in 1693.


Prince Philip was to inspect a replica of the Susan Constant, the
largest of three ships that brought the Jamestown settlers across
the Atlantic.


At the fort, the couple were to survey a treasure trove of
archaeological finds and forensic investigations that have
enabled experts to trace most of the settlers back to
Lincolnshire in eastern England.


That discovery was made possible by new techniques that analyzed
water-borne minerals on the tooth enamel of settlers' skeletons,
which showed the same unique blend of minerals common to parts of
the coastal English county.


At Jamestown the royal couple were to brave the stench of
brackish water, preserved in all its stagnant glory to show
today's visitors what the scene was like in 1607, as well as an
airborne army of mayflies.


Conditions were even worse 400 years ago, according to Forrest
Morgan, 65, a retired corporate lawyer who now guides visitors
around the site.


"There were no insecticides back then, so the bugs would have
been the size of small dogs," he said.

