

Six Vietnamese political dissidents will face court in three
trials in coming weeks, officials and state media said Friday as
the communist government rejected US criticism over its human
rights record.


The activists will all be tried and sentenced in one-day hearings
on charges of spreading propaganda against the one-party state, a
crime under Vietnamese law that carries up to 20 years' jail,
court officials said.


Three members of an illegal party and a spokesman for an outlawed
workers and farmers rights group will go on trial in Ho Chi Minh
City, while two human rights lawyers will face a previously
scheduled trial in Hanoi.


The hearings come ahead of May 20 National Assembly elections,
which the underground Bloc 8406 pro-democracy coalition has urged
citizens to boycott because the poll allows only candidates
approved by the Communist Party.


Next Thursday, three key members of the banned People's
Democratic Party -- medical doctor Le Nguyen Sang, 48, journalist
Huynh Nguyen Dao, 39, and lawyer Nguyen Bac Truyen, 39 -- will
face Ho Chi Minh City People's Court.


They are accused of communicating online with Vietnamese-American
dissident Cong Thanh Do with the aim of "sowing the seeds of
discontent among the Vietnamese public," said the state-run
Vietnam News Agency (VNA).


California-based Do, who was jailed but released after US
pressure last September, had instructed Sang "to print and
distribute leaflets that contained highly distorted information
against Vietnam's state and party," said VNA.


Dao allegedly distributed the leaflets from October 2005 to June
2006.


In the second trial, on Friday, May 11, Hanoi lawyers and pro-
democracy activists Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, who were
arrested in March, face trial in the capital Hanoi, also accused
of defaming the state.


And on Tuesday, May 15, lawyer Tran Quoc Hien, 42, a spokesman
for the United Workers and Farmers' Association and a Bloc 8406
member, will be prosecuted in Ho Chi Minh City, again on charges
of disrupting security.


The trials in the southern commercial hub formerly called Saigon
will last one day each and be open to local and foreign media,
said Ho Chi Minh City's People's Court official Vu Phi Long.


The Hanoi trial is also expected to be open, according to
sources.


In late March, foreign media were allowed to attend a trial in
the central city of Hue in which dissident Catholic priest Nguyen
Van Ly, 60, was sentenced to eight years' jail, also for
spreading anti-state propaganda.


The open trials and a flurry of unusually detailed state media
reports attacking dissidents have signalled a more assertive line
from Hanoi against activists who challenge the political monopoly
of the Communist Party.


The arrests and trials have raised tensions between Washington
and Hanoi over political and religious freedoms ahead of a visit
by Vietnam's President Nguyen Minh Triet to the United States
scheduled for June.


The US Commission on International Religious Freedom said
Wednesday Vietnam should be blacklisted as a country violating
religious freedoms after being taken off the list shortly before
a November visit by President George W. Bush.


The commission said that since Hanoi was taken off the list and
then joined the World Trade Organisation in January, "positive
religious freedom trends have, for the most part, stalled."


On the same day the US House of Representatives passed a
resolution calling for the release of Father Ly and all other
political prisoners.


In Hanoi, Foreign Ministry spokesman Le Dung said Vietnam
"opposes the interference of foreign countries in its internal
affairs" and said "no-one in Vietnam is arrested due to their
political views or religion."


"Recently there have been individuals who have used the cloak of
democracy and freedom to violate Vietnam's laws, undermining
security, social order and stability," he said in a statement.

