

Rafael Benitez is set to cause a storm of controversy at the foot
of the Premiership after vowing to field under-strength sides in
the final weeks of the English domestic season.


The Spaniard wants to keep his first-choice players fit for
Liverpool's Champions League final against AC Milan on May 23 and
will make sweeping changes for Saturday's trip to Fulham and next
week's final-day clash with  Charlton.


The London sides are deeply embroiled in the Premiership
relegation battle but their chances of survival will be boosted
by the news that Benitez will rest a host of key players, likely
to include Steven Gerrard, Pepe Reina, Jamie Carragher and Xabi
Alonso.


With just five points separating five sides at the bottom of the
table, Benitez's team selections could prove decisive and Neil
Warnock, the Sheffield United manager, has expressed anxiety that
his club's relegation rivals will be aided by the Merseysiders'
European ambitions.


"It might not be good news for us that Liverpool progressed to
the final," he said.


"They are going to be involved  in some important matches, from
our perspective at least, between now and the  end of the
season."


But the Yorkshireman's pleas appear likely to fall on deaf ears.


"Playing well in the Champions League final is what's important
now and we must focus on that," Benitez confirmed.


"The hard work for the players begins now. The final is not
today, it is in a few weeks time and we must start our
preparation from this moment. That means we must get the balance
right and there will be changes to the team in the final league
games."


Fulham will take whatever help is on offer as they try and
reverse an end-of- season tail-spin which has seen them collect
just four points out of a possible 30 in their last 10 matches.
That dire run has left them just one point clear of danger,
although Lawrie Sanchez, the Northern Ireland manager who took
over from Chris Coleman on a caretaker basis last month, remains
undeterred.


"It's been a strange period for me over the last few weeks," he
said.


"I  met up with Northern Ireland at the end of March, we won two
games and went top of the group, I went skiing and then became
manager of Fulham the day after I came back.


"People say it must be tough, but it's a fantastic job. You're
working with the best support you can and Fulham's a beautiful
club.


"I've got to make sure we're here next year. I'm relishing the
job: it can be stressful but you have to feed off that stress. I
just hope that come May 13 I will have done what I was asked to
do."


Fulham did at least show a modicum of improvement in last
Sunday's 3-1 defeat at Arsenal, even if a brace of late goals
confirmed yet another defeat.


But with time running out, the Cottagers would swap plaudits for
points if it meant extending their six-year stay in the top
flight.


"We've got to go out and not think about other results," Claus
Jensen, the Danish midfielder, said.


"We must build on Sunday's second-half performance because there
were a lot of good signs in that game."

