

Iraq is expected to thrash out differences with its neighbours on
Friday's day two of a summit which has seen world leaders vow to
rescue the war-torn country from bloodshed and bankruptcy.


On Thursday in Egypt's Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh
delegates from more than 50 countries unanimously decided to
support Iraq in its battle against sectarian bloodletting and the
raging insurgency.


As a first step, the meeting won pledges for 30 billion dollars
in debt relief which is expected to help Baghdad focus on
political and social reforms in a bid to restore stability.


Friday's expanded regional meeting is likely to be dominated by
issues concerning neighbours Iran and Syria and their role in
helping to curb the violence.


"The meeting would focus on getting regional support to Iraq
specifically," a delegate told AFP on condition of anonymity.
"The idea is to create pressure for neighbours to perform."


The United States has repeatedly accused Iran and Syria of
fuelling violence in Iraq, including attacks on its forces.


Ahead of Friday's talks, the United States made rare contact with
Syria and Iran on the sidelines of the conference.


US Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice met Syrian Foreign Minister
Walid Muallem and described their talks as "professional,
businesslike."


"Today on the margins of the larger meeting, there was an
opportunity to talk about the problem of foreign fighters, major
source of the suicide bombings in Iraq," she told reporters.


It was the first such high level meeting in more than two years,
and marked an apparent shift in US policy towards Syria which has
been repeatedly accused by Washington of funding Iraq's Sunni
Arab insurgency by failing to stop foreign fighters from entering
Iraq via Syria.


"This is not a favour to the US, it is an opportunity to help
stabilise Iraq and therefore serve the neighbourhood," she added.


Speculation also mounted over the possibility of a meeting
between Rice and her Iranian counterpart, Manouchehr Mottaki.


The two only exchanged basic civilities over a lunch attended by
other diplomats, but the encounter was still seen as significant
between two countries which broke diplomatic ties in 1980.


Iraq's national security adviser Muwaffaq Rubaie said both
countries "want to talk but there is a psychological barrier, a
psychological block."


The US military accuses Iran-based elements of arming, funding
and training Iraqi armed groups, and says at least 170 of its
soldiers in Iraq have been killed by bombs manufactured by
Tehran-linked factions.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett met Mottaki behind
closed doors for what she described as "useful discussions,"
however.


A clear commitment by Iran and Syria to help contain communal
strife is seen as crucial by Washington and its allies in Iraq.


"The best way we can assist the government and people of Iraq is
to help them restore security, stability and national solidarity
and to prevent actions that will lead to a further escalation of
sectarian violence and internal dissension," Mottaki said on
Thursday.


The Egypt conference is the biggest international diplomatic push
aimed at solving Iraq's woes since the March 2003 US-led
invasion.


Delegates on Thursday unanimously adopted the so-called
International Compact with Iraq (ICI), a roadmap for stabilising
Iraq in five years.


Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said its goal was "to rebuild
a unified, democratic and federal Iraq and to distribute its
wealth fairly."


The document includes measures to give fresh impetus to Iraq's
economy, improve governance and offer financial assistance, in a
process key players hope will bolster reconciliation.


It includes new laws on oil revenue sharing and on the return to
public life of members of the late Saddam Hussein's regime.


The meeting also won pledges by participating countries to scrap
around 30 billion dollars in debt incurred by Saddam's regime.


"Specific financial commitments by particular countries are
estimated at over 30 billion dollars," United Nations Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon told reporters.

