

US forces on Friday seized 16 more Iraqis suspected of smuggling
armour-piercing bombs from Iran, the military said, in the latest
in a series of raids in the Baghdad Shiite suburb Sadr City.


The arrests came one day after US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice exchanged brief remarks with her Iranian counterpart
Manouchehr Mottaki at talks on Iraq in Egypt, the first such
encounter since 1980.


Friday's US military news release had near identical phrasing to
two previous statements on Sadr City raids on Thursday and on
April 27, and fits an emerging US policy of attempting to tie
violence in Iraq to Iranian sponsors.


"The individuals targeted during the raid are suspected members
of a secret cell terrorist network known for facilitating the
transport of weapons and explosively formed penetrators, or EFPs,
from Iran to Iraq," it said.


The statement, released by coalition command in Baghdad, also
accused the captives of "bringing militants from Iraq to Iran for
terrorist training."


"Intelligence reports also indicate the secret cell has ties to a
kidnapping network that conducts attacks within Iraq as well as
interactions with rogue elements throughout Iraq and into Iran,"
it said.


US commanders have long accused Iranian agents of fomenting
unrest in Iraq, where the government and its American allies face
the dual threat of a violent insurgency and a vicious sectarian
war between Sunni and Shiite factions.


Tehran denies having any links to the violence.


Recently, however, the daily press statements released by US
command in Baghdad have become much more explicit in linking
arrests and military operations to action against the alleged
Iranian threat.


Another statement, also released Friday, recounting a routine
seizure of an insurgent weapons cache by US troops south of
Baghdad noted that the roadside bombs, mortar shells and rockets
were of Iranian manufacture.


The US military has arrested seven alleged officers in Iran's
covert Qods Force and are holding them in Iraq.

