

Socialist Segolene Royal warned Friday that France could slide
into violence if Nicolas Sarkozy wins the presidency as polls
showed the rightwinger had extended his lead.


"His candidacy is dangerous. That is why I ask voters to think
twice," said Royal in an interview to RTL radio on the final day
of campaigning ahead of the election on Sunday.


Two polls released on Friday showed Sarkozy pulling ahead of
Royal with 53 and 54 percent of votes against 46 and 47 percent
for the Socialist.


Royal, who wants to become France's first woman president, said
she was "issuing an alert" that the election of Sarkozy to the
presidency could "trigger violence and brutalities across the
country."


She described her rival as "the candidate of the hard right" and
said his victory would create "very strong tensions in the
country."


Sarkozy reacted to Royal's attacks by saying that she was upset
by her drop in the polls.


"It must be the polls. It's so outrageous," Sarkozy said of her
comments in an interview to Europe1 radio. "She is getting tense,
stiffer because she feels the ground shifting."


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, is hated by many on the
left and in the high-immigrant suburbs for his tough-talk on
immigration and law and order.


His description of young delinquents in the suburbs as "rabble"
ahead of the 2005 riots made him an enemy of the Arab and African
residents of the poor areas surrounding Paris and other major
cities.


Royal noted that Sarkozy had not been able to campaign freely in
the suburbs without the escort of "hundreds of police".


She also accused him of having ties to media and financial
interests, reiterating that his candidacy was "dangerous in terms
of the concentration of powers, in terms of brutality and in
terms of lies."


"I am not a woman of a clique," she said, adding that she was
ready to reach out to the centrist voters.


Nearly seven million voters who backed centrist Francois Bayrou
in the April 22 first round of the election have been courted
assiduously by both Royal and Sarkozy ahead of the runoff.

