

US President George W. Bush is expected to hold his first summit
with all 10 Southeast Asian leaders, including the region's most
troublesome member, Myanmar, in September.


The landmark meeting is aimed at highlighting 30 years of
official ties between Washington and the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN), Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong
said Thursday.


President Bush has visited Southeast Asia twice since his came to
office in 2001, "and we look forward to his third visit when he
attends the ASEAN-US Commemorative Summit in Singapore in
September," Lee said at a forum in Washington ahead of talks with
Bush at the White House on Friday.


Noting that Bush's predecessor Bill Clinton had also visited
Southeast Asia three times, Lee said, "this bipartisan engagement
is encouraging."


Bush has over the last couple of years met annually with leaders
of seven ASEAN states -- Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam -- which are also
members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum --
at the sidelines of the forum's annual talks.


ASEAN's other members Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar are not APEC
members.


Myanmar has been a thorn in relations between ASEAN and
Washington, which has imposed investment and trade sanctions on
Yangon, where the ruling junta is accused of massive human rights
violations, suppression of political dissent and refusal to bring
democratic reforms.


Lee said "ASEAN-US relations should not be held hostage by"
Myanmar, which "is undoubtedly a concern, including to other
ASEAN members."


"The US has a broader strategic interest in ASEAN, and should not
allow this single matter to hinder its efforts to actively engage
ASEAN countries, both individually and as a group," he said.


Lee, whose country holds the rotating chair of ASEAN this year,
said that the 30th anniversary of US-ASEAN engagement was a
"timely opportunity to bring the relationship to a higher level."


He suggested collaboration in energy and the environment and on
the prevention of transboundary pollution and stepped up
cooperation in the fight against terrorism and health pandemics
such as HIV/AIDS and avian flu.

