

Ronald Reagan was omnipresent as Republican White House hopefuls
paid homage to the "Gipper" here Thursday -- conspicuously
avoiding talk of the deeply unpopular President George W. Bush.


While the 10 Republican Presidential contenders took turns in
eulogizing the late former US leader -- under the watchful gaze
of former First Lady Nancy Reagan -- Bush was the name off
everyone's lips.


Until the final question, when candidates were invited to state
how they would be different from the sitting President, Bush's
name had only been mentioned once during the 90-minute debate.


Analysts say the front-runners -- former New York Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani, Arizona Senator John McCain and Mitt Romney -- are
reluctant to avoid being aligned with Bush, who has hit record
lows in the polls.


But while the so-called big three were gun-shy about Bush, they
rarely wasted an opportunity to extol the virtues of Reagan, the
1980s leader who is idolized by core Republicans.


According to a transcript, 19 references to Reagan were made by
Giuliani, McCain and Romney as they set out their stall to a
nationwide prime-time television audience at the former
President's library.


"What we can borrow from Ronald Reagan is that great sense of
optimism that he had," said Giuliani. "He led by building on the
strengths of America, not running America down."


McCain said he would seek to curb spending as Reagan had done in
office.


"Ronald Reagan used to say, we spend money like a drunken
sailor," McCain said. "I never knew a sailor, drunk or sober,
with the imagination of the Congress."


Romney meanwhile praised Reagan as a "strong president" hailing
his "philosophy of strength."


Other candidates also used the platform to praise Reagan's
leadership, hoping to tap into surging nostalgia for the actor-
turned-politician who led America through the final years of the
Cold War.


Former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson, a rank outsider,
praised Reagan's fabled ability to unite.


"A president has got to be able to get out and speak and be able
to unite," said Thompson. "And the great thing about Ronald
Reagan was he was a uniter."


But while they avoided talking about Bush, no candidate was
willing to offer criticism of the president.


"I think we're each our own person," said Romney. "We have our
own values. I respect the president's character, his passion, his
love for this country."


A Giuliani aide meanwhile sidestepped questions about trying to
avoid being tied to Bush.


Asked how Giuliani would tread the fine line between not being
associated with Bush and at the same time not being seen as
disloyal to a sitting president, policy director Bill Simon told
AFP: "Mayor Giuliani will set forth ideas as he believes them to
be true.


"Whether those ideas are popular or not, I've not found that the
mayor is inclined to use polls as a determinant of his policy."

