

Asian finance ministers meet here Saturday to try to bolster
their defences against another economic crisis but one of their
loftiest goals -- a common currency -- still seems decades away
at least.


Ten years after the East Asian tigers were rocked by financial
turmoil following the collapse of the Thai baht, the region is
trying to deepen its ties yet further to guard against a repeat
of the traumatic crisis.


Finance ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) as well as China, Japan and South Korea will discuss a
multilateral scheme of currency swaps to improve the existing
bilateral system introduced in 2000.


"This week's meeting will see some progress on this issue but no
tangible agreement is expected," said a Japanese finance ministry
official.


In the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 10 ASEAN
nations plus Japan, China and South Korea agreed to set up a
bilateral currency swap scheme known as the Chiang Mai Initiative
in a bid to prevent a repeat of the turmoil.


Under the accord, an Asian country in financial trouble can
borrow foreign currency -- usually US dollars -- from another
country to bolster its international reserves until the crisis
passes.


But some economists say the real challenge facing Asia is not how
to improve defences against another financial crisis or
speculative currency attacks, but how to make better use of the
region's huge foreign exchange reserves.


"The situation today is completely different (to 1997). The
challenge facing Asia is in fact too much reserves and the long-
term negative effects of this," said Ifzal Ali, the chief
economist of the Asian Development Bank (ADB).


"While it is not as dramatic as a crisis, over time it does eat
away at opportunities for higher rates of growth, higher
investments," he told AFP in an interview ahead of the ADB's
annual meeting here.


Asia holds the bulk of the world's foreign reserves at some 2.7
trillion dollars, led by China alone with more than one trillion
dollars.


The ADB's governors also meet this weekend to assess the health
of the Asian economies a decade after the regional financial
crisis, as well as prospects for further financial integration
and the development bank's own future.


Last year the 10 ASEAN nations along with China, Japan and South
Korea agreed to study the creation of a single Asian currency
akin to the euro, although little progress is expected any time
soon on the issue.


"It is something that is maybe -- over the very long-term -- a
goal towards which Asia will move but I don't see that happening
in the near term," Ali said of the idea of a common Asian
currency.


He said a common currency would require interest rate
coordination between member countries which would be tough
because of the marked differences between economies around the
region.


ASEAN ministers are also expected to discuss efforts to develop
better Asian bond markets as well as the recent appreciation of
regional currencies against the dollar amid concern over the
slowing US economy.


ASEAN groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

