

Rangers striker Kris Boyd is hoping to break his Old Firm goal
drought by shooting down Scottish Premier League champions Celtic
at Ibrox on Saturday.


For the second year running the 23-year-old striker tops the SPL
scoring charts, with 19 goals.


However, Boyd has yet to find the net against Celtic for Rangers
or previous club Kilmarnock.


Although there is little at stake in Saturday's Old Firm match -
with Celtic champions and Rangers eight points clear of third
placed Aberdeen in the fight for Champions League qualification -
the striker would love nothing more than to score his first goal
against the Parkhead club.


Boyd joked: "Before every game against Celtic I say I'll score.
This time I'll say I won't score and hopefully my fortunes will
change and I'll get a goal."


Celtic may have strolled to their second consecutive SPL title
under Gordon Strachan but under Walter Smith, who replaced French
manager Paul Le Guen in January, Rangers look capable of mounting
a serious challenge next season.


Rangers are undefeated in the 12 SPL games they have played since
Smith took over - including a 1-0 win away to Celtic in March -
and Boyd is determined to continue this run.


He said: "All the boys are really looking forward to the game and
it's another chance for us to show we have turned the corner.


"We want to show that we are closer to Celtic than our league
position shows and we have a chance to do that on Saturday.


"It is also important for us to continue our 12-game unbeaten run
and keep the momentum going."


Saturday's match will be the last Old Firm games for Celtic
captain Neil Lennon, 35, and Rangers Croatian striker Dado Prso,
32, who have both decided the time has come to move on at the end
of the season.


While Lennon is fit to take his place in the centre of Celtic's
midfield, Prso is struggling with tonsillitis.


On Sunday Hearts and Aberdeen will face each other at Tynecastle
in a match which will go a long way to determining who finishes
third to qualify for the UEFA Cup.


The Dons currently have the edge, leading the Edinburgh side by
four points, and with only two games remaining after this one, a
win would see them clinch third place.


There are three other SPL matches on Saturday, the only one of
real importance being held at Tannadice as second bottom St
Mirren travel to face Dundee United.


The Paisley side looked to be safe only a few months ago, with a
nine point advantage over Dunfermline.


Their defeat at home to the Pars last Monday, however, meant
Stephen Kenny's side are now only one point behind and seem to
have the momentum, having also qualified for the Scottish Cup
Final.


But if St Mirren can manage a rare away victory on Saturday they
would pile pressure back on Dunfermline, who do not play host to
Motherwell until Monday evening.


Gus MacPherson, St Mirren manager, has urged his players to put
their Dunfermline defeat out of their minds and reminded them
they are still in the driving seat.


He said: "There's no doubt losing to Dunfermline was a major
disappointment but we have to forget about it and prepare for
Dundee United.


"We still have the advantage, although it's not as good as it
once was, and if we win our three games then we'll be safe."


In the other SPL games on Saturday Falkirk are at home to
Inverness Caledonian Thistle and Hibernian play host to
Kilmarnock.


Fixtures (1400 GMT unless stated)


Saturday


Rangers v Celtic (1130 GMT), Dundee United v St Mirren, Falkirk v
Inverness Caledonian Thistle, Hibernian v Kilmarnock.


Sunday


Hearts v Aberdeen (1300).


Monday


Dunfermline v Motherwell (1845).

