

David Moyes has branded Everton's  final home match of the season
against Portsmouth as make or break as they look to join
neighbours Liverpool in Europe next season.


Everton looked to have secured a top seven finish, which would
earn them a place in the UEFA Cup, after defeating Charlton 2-1
last month.


But back-to-back defeats to struggling West Ham and leaders
Manchester United means they still have plenty of work to do.


They must beat fellow UEFA Cup hopefuls Portsmouth at Goodison
Park on Saturday to keep alive their hopes of playing in the
competition for the  second time in three seasons.


Victory over Harry Redknapp's side would guarantee Portsmouth
cannot catch sixth-placed Everton, but Tottenham, Reading and
Blackburn can still finish above Moyes' team.


"We played West Ham, which was a must-win game for West Ham,"
said the Everton manager. "We played Manchester United, which was
probably must-win for them, now it's a must-win game for Everton
on Saturday."


Everton missed England striker Andy Johnson in the 4-2 home
defeat to Manchester United last Saturday. Johnson is to undergo
surgery on an ankle injury at the end of the season, but there
has been good news involving  strikers at the club this week.


Teenagers James Vaughan and Victor Anichebe, who has both made
goalscoring impacts in the Premiership this season, have signed
contract extensions which will keep them at Goodison Park until
2011.


Portsmouth, who start eighth, are also in the hunt for a place in
Europe two games from the end of the season.


One point and two places divide Everton and Portsmouth in the
table and Redknapp believes his side, who entertain Arsenal on
the final day of the campaign, need to get something from their
trip to Merseyside if they are to qualify for Europe.


Following a fine home run of form Redknapp believes his side can
overcome Arsenal, but his main worry is getting something at
Everton.


"We could take six points out of our last two games and still
find it is not enough," said Redknapp.


"On the other hand, depending on other results, we could take
four and still scrape through.


"With the games we have in mind we would probably take four
points if they were offered now but we need something at Everton,
that's for sure.


"We would be delighted with a win there but would probably take
the draw . The big thing is we are at home in our final match
although it is against Arsenal.


"But the last three home matches against Manchester United,
Newcastle and Liverpool have shown what we can do in front of our
own fans. All the lads are up for a UEFA Cup shot. We will do all
we can to get there."

