

A new power plant in Vietnam will use methane gas from an urban
waste dump to generate electricity while reducing harmful
greenhouse gas emissions, officials said Friday.


The Malaysian-Canadian joint venture constructing the three-
million-dollar facility plans to profit from the reduced
emissions through a carbon trading mechanism set up under the
Kyoto Protocol to combat global warming.


The plant, to be built next year in the central city of Danang,
is the first of several planned in Vietnam by Malaysian
engineering firm P.J. International Ltd and Canadian renewable
energy company LFGC Corporation.


The companies have said they hoped to build similar landfill
power plants in Vietnam's largest urban area, Ho Chi Minh City,
the capital Hanoi and the northern port city of Haiphong.


The Danang plant would use gas from the 10-hectare (25-acre)
Khanh Son landfill with 15 million tons of waste, said Phan Thi
Nu, head of the technical department of the city's Urban
Environment Company.


Under the agreement, LFGC plans to sell so-called Certified
Emission Reduction units on the international carbon market set
up under the Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto treaty, the
Malaysian partner has said.


The Canadian and Malaysian companies are already cooperating in
landfill gas extraction and power projects that use waste
products from palm oil milling as a fuel for biomass plants, LFGC
said on its website.


Rapid economic growth in Vietnam, a country of 84 million people,
has  driven up industrial and domestic electricity demand, which
is growing by about 15 percent a year, and increased pollution
and waste.


Global warming and rising sea levels would badly impact Vietnam
-- a country with a long coastline and dense population centres
in low-lying river deltas -- scientists warned at a Hanoi
conference this week.


It would also intensify severe weather events such as typhoons
and droughts, the Institute of Meteorology, Hydrology and the
Environment told a national forum on global climate change, state
media reported.

