

Motorcycling ace Casey Stoner and his red-hot fast Ducati team
have rivals scratching their heads over how to beat the young
Australian at the Grand Prix of China in Shanghai.


Stoner and the legendary Italian motorcycle outfit have shown top
form early this season, pocketing two wins in three races and
making the 21-year-old a strong favourite for victory here
Sunday.


Fifth in Shanghai last year, Stoner shot 10 points ahead of
Valentino Rossi in the championships standings with a commanding
win in Istanbul two weeks ago, beating Spaniard Tony Elias on a
Honda and Loris Capirossi of Italy.


The easy going ace from Adelaide will now be aiming for a third
chequered flag in the fourth race of 2007, in a start to his
second season in Moto GP he described as a dream come true.


"Last weekend was perfect. Everything just went so well together,
the bike and tyres were unbelievable and it was just matter of
putting in the laps," a smiling Stoner told a pre-event
conference in Shanghai.


"It's a dream come true, after the first race this season I
didn't really think things could get too much better."


"For sure we have some (speed) advantages so this will help our
cause (in Shanghai)," he said.


In the season opener in Qatar, Stoner's Ducati clocked top speeds
of up to 15 kilometres (nine miles) an hour faster than his
rivals, prompting Italian seven- time world champion Valentino
Rossi to marvel at the bike's pace.


"In Qatar the difference was very big and we hope here to close
the gap especially with Ducati," said Yamaha's Rossi, who is
second in the points with 51. "The problem is the long, long
straight."


At 1,200 metres, Shanghai has the world's longest main stretch,
which means Rossi is not the only one worried by Ducati's early
dominance since the engines were downsized from 990cc engines to
800cc for this year.


"We know we have in the straights some disadvantage but we must
try to get as close as possible to Ducati," said Dani Pedrosa,
the 125cc and 250cc world champion, and winner of his first
MotoGP here last year.


"I'm not intimidated (about Ducati's speed) but reality is
reality," said the Spanish Honda rider.


The pilots could also face stiff competition from Stoner's team-
mate Capirossi, who raced home a gritty third in Istanbul ahead
of veteran Brazilian Alex Barros, also in a Ducati.


After the see-saw race, Capirossi said he felt like he was back
in the saddle.


Stoner nevertheless insisted that it would take more than raw
speed to come away with victory at the 5.3 kilometre track that
also has two hairpins and several sweeping curves.


"We also need to think about the other part of the track," Stoner
said.


"It's really hard to set your bike up for this track, to have the
correct gear box and then have the speed in the straight."

