

The Philippine business community Friday welcomed a billion
dollar investment by Texas Instruments as a positive move that
may signal a rebirth in the country's benign manufacturing
sector.


The US-chip maker on Thursday announced it will invest one
billion dollars expanding its Philippine operations in what
President Gloria Arroyo described as "one of the single biggest
investments" in the country's economic history.


The plant, which will be located in the Clark Freeport Zone north
of Manila, will effectively double its operations in the country
that began 28 years ago in the northern mountain city of Baguio.


Texas Instruments will build a 77,000 square-meter (828,520
-square-foot) assembly and test operations facility in a
32-hectare (79-acre) site at the former US Air Force Base.


Regarded as a world leader in digital signal processing and
analog technologies, Texas Instruments is a Fortune 500 company
with revenues that amounted to 14.3 billion dollars last year.


"Its a good sign," Robert Sears the executive director of the
American Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines told AFP.


"It will send a great message to foreign investors and
particularly American investors that the Philippines can be
considered for large scale investment."


Michael Clancy, CEO of the Philippine Business Leaders Forum,
said: "the move is positive for the Philippines and for the
manufacturing sector which has been in the doldrums for years."


The deal came just days after Arroyo signed a new executive order
granting major tax and economic concessions to promote the Clark
Freeport Zone as an "economic haven in the Asia - Pacific
region.'


Raffy Galvez, marketing manager for the Clark Development
Corporation, told AFP that one of the incentives is a flat tax of
five percent on gross income earned as opposed to the normal tax
rate of 32 percent.


He said companies will also be able to import capital equipment
and raw materials duty free.


"Companies will also be exempted from paying property tax for the
duration of their contract," he said.


He would not comment specifically on the Texas Instruments deal
but added that companies in the economic zone will also benefit
from easy access to working visas for foreigners and a "one-stop"
centre for processing import, consignment and export permits.


One of the biggest complaints from foreign businessmen doing
business in the Philippines was the time taken tied up with
bureaucratic red tape.


A power plant will also be built for the facility's exclusive
use, though the main electrical grid will still be tapped.


"The Philippines can be productive and cost effective," Clancy
said.


"Incentives to attract foreign investment is not a problem and
long overdue. You have to give something away to get the money
coming in."


"This will give a major boost to the economy especially to the
semi-conductor industry," Lawrence de Leon an analyst with Accord
Capital Equities Inc.


"And there is a good chance that we will see a major spillover
into the economy as a result."


Although businessmen have complained about the country's
neglected infrastructure and obsession with politics, de Leon
says the investment shows that Texas Instruments "is looking
beyond the regular problems in the Philippines."


"They believe that issues will be addressed. They're looking at
the long-term picture," he said.


Last year the Philippines attracted 2.35 billion dollars in
foreign investment, much less than its Southeast Asian neighbors.


However, a survey by Hong Kong-based Political and Economic Risk
Consultancy recently found the Philippines to be one of the most
corrupt countries in Asia to do business in.


According to the Philippine Trade Secretary, Peter Favila, the
investment of Texas Instruments could be as much as 1.7 billion
dollars over the next 10 years.


Kevin Ritchie, senior vice president for Texas Instruments, told
a press conference on Thursday that the quality of the workforce,
incentives offered by Philippine government and power supply were
crucial in the decision.


Texas Instruments began operating in Baguio in 1979, becoming the
first multinational corporation to locate in the Philippines
under the Philippine Economic Zone Authority.


Investment in the company's existing facilities and equipment has
totalled 711 million dollars and it employs 2,500 people.


Texas Instruments last year exported 3.5 billion dollars worth of
products made and assembled in the Baguio facility, accounting
for 35-40 percent of the company's revenues worldwide, Ritchie
said.

