

The Golden State Warriors completed a stunning first-round
National Basketball Association playoff upset of Western
Conference top seeds Dallas Thursday with a 111-86 game six
triumph.


The Warriors, who scraped a playoff berth on the last night of
the regular season, completed a four-games-to-two series victory
over a Mavericks team that won a league-leading 67 regular season
games and had their sights sets on returning to the NBA finals
for the second straight year.


The departure of Dallas means that neither of last year's NBA
finalists made it out of the first round. The Miami Heat, who
defeated the Mavericks for the championship last season, fell to
the Chicago Bulls in the Eastern Conference first round.


The Warriors broke open the game in the third period, when they
out-scored the Mavericks 36-15. The out-scored Dallas 61-38 in
the second half.


Dallas star Dirk Nowitzki, the leading contender for Most
Valuable Player honors, had a nightmare game, scoring just eight
points on 2-of-13 shooting.


In the second round, the Warriors will face the winner of the
first-round series between Houston and Utah.


The Jazz staved off elimination on Thursday with a 94-82 victory
over the Rockets that evened their series at three games apiece.


Carlos Boozer scored 22 points and Mehmet Okur added 14 of his 19
in the second half.


That series heads to Houston for game seven on Saturday. Each
team has won three games on its home court.


"I was pleased with the effort that our guys put in to try and
win the game," Jazz coach Jerry Sloan said. "I know we had our
backs against the wall and I thought the club did a fine job."


Utah led the entire second half and took a 68-62 advantage into
the final period, but two free throws by Tracy McGrady capped a
12-5 run by Houston that narrowed the deficit to 77-76 with 4:45
left. But that one-point margin was as close as the Rockets came.


"We couldn't get our stops, and when we did get a shot, we
weren't able to convert," McGrady said. "It was right there, man,
one point. "We put ourselves in a great position to pull this
game out."

