

Southeast Asian states and the European Union agreed Friday to
launch free trade negotiations, setting aside differences over
alleged human rights violations in army-ruled Myanmar, an
official said.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson reached the agreement with
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) economic ministers
during a meeting in Brunei, ASEAN Secretary General Ong Keng Yong
told AFP.


"Yes, we agreed to launch the ASEAN-EU free trade negotiations,"
Ong said from the Brunei capital Bandar Seri Begawan.


"We will set up a joint working committee to follow through this
announcement ... The understanding is that we are talking to the
EU as a group of 10 member countries and Myanmar is a member of
ASEAN. No one will be excluded from the negotiating process."


ASEAN's diplomatic ties with the EU has been strained over
European concerns over Myanmar's poor human rights record,
including the continued detention of democracy icon Aung San Suu
Kyi.


The EU last month voiced new concern at "serious violations of
human rights" in Myanmar and extended its sanctions against the
military regime there for another year.


EU foreign ministers expressed "deep concern on the lack of
tangible progress on the promised transition towards a legitimate
civilian government" and called for Aung San Suu Kyi's release.


The sanctions were first introduced in 1996 after Yangon failed
to meet EU demands for greater democracy.


Renate Nikolay, a member of Mandelson's cabinet, told AFP on
Thursday from Brunei that the EU remains aware of the political
situation in Myanmar.


"We never made it a secret that there is a political issue
involved. What we are trying to avoid is to make this a stumbling
bloc for the negotiations," she said.


An independent analysis carried out by CEPII, France's leading
institute for research on the international economy, and
Copenhagen Economics showed a free trade agreement would boost EU
exports to ASEAN by 24.2 percent.


ASEAN would also see an 18.5 percent rise in its exports to the
EU if an agreement is reached.

