

Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe warned Zimbabwe's Catholic
bishops who have become increasingly critical of him that they
are treading a "dangerous path," according to reports published
on Friday.


Mugabe's comments, in the state-run Herald newspaper, come after
a pastoral letter was read out by the country's Catholic Bishops
on Sunday calling for a new people-driven constitution to avert
bloodshed and mass uprising.


"Once (the Bishops) turn political, we regard them as no longer
spiritual and our relations with them would be conducted as if we
are dealing with political entities and this is quite a dangerous
path they have chosen for themselves," Mugabe told the Herald.


The autocratic 83-year-old, himself a Catholic, is blamed for
Zimbabwe's current political and economic crisis that has reduced
what was once one of Africa's success stories into a country in
meltdown.


Zimbabwe has world-record inflation, joblessness hovering over 80
percent and chronic shortages of foreign currency, fuel and
cooking oil.


In their letter, the Catholic leaders said that the crisis in
Zimbabwe was "in essence, a crisis of governance and a crisis of
leadership apart from being a spiritual and moral crisis."


"If I had gone to church and the priest had read that so-called
pastoral letter, I would have stood up and said nonsense," Mugabe
said, adding: "It is not something spiritual, it is not
religious, the bishops have decided to turn political".


Mugabe said he would talk to some of the bishops but attacked one
of his outspoken critics, Archbishop Pius Ncube of Bulawayo.


"He (Ncube) thinks he is close to God, that's why he says he is
praying for me to die. But unfortunately, God has not listened to
him for all this duration.


"I don't know how many times a day he is saying that
prayer:'Please God take that man, Robert Mugabe away from us'."


Mugabe said the Church and the State must work hand in hand, but
"if this is going to be the partner the Catholics want us to
have, then obviously they must know we will reciprocate as
politicians."

