

When General David Petraeus, the US commander in Iraq, asserted
last week that sectarian murders in Baghdad were down by two-
thirds it was a bright spot in an otherwise dark picture.


The US Senate was poised to vote in favor of a timeline for
withdrawing US forces from Iraq, and the drop in killings was one
countervailing sign that the surge of additional US combat troops
was having a positive effect.


But in the week since Petraeus spoke at a Pentagon press
conference, US military spokesmen have been unwilling or unable
to provide the actual numbers of civilian deaths in Baghdad that
underpin his estimate.


"Typically we do not release our numbers since they involve Iraqi
citizens and we are hesitant to put forth the raw numbers since
we would be in effect, talking for the Iraqi government," said
Colonel Steven Boylan, Petraeus' public affairs officer, by
email.


"There are differences in numbers depending on category that they
are placed," he wrote.


"However, with that said, we still saw up to the point that we
were in Wash DC (sic) ... that all the numbers have trended
downward since Dec (December) at least in the areas of ethno-
sectarian by all types of attacks."


Some analysts question the extent to which the violence has
subsided, however, seeing more modest declines in sectarian
killings and a disturbing upsurge in major attacks that have
killed 50 or more people at a time.


The Iraqi government, meanwhile, has stopped providing health
ministry statistics on civilian deaths to the UN Humanitarian
Mission for Iraq (UNAMI), raising suspicions it is trying to
blunt negative perceptions at a time when the US debate over Iraq
is at critical pass.


"We think it is highly suspect that at the same time as these
statements are being made about violence being down, lo' and
behold in the first report that UNAMI has prepared (since the
surge) they are not given data from the Iraqi government," said
Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at Human Rights Watch.


"So I'm sorry if people's eyebrows go up high in the air," she
said.


Other US military leaders also have claimed large percentage
declines in sectarian violence in recent weeks -- though not as
great as the two-thirds figure used by Petraeus.


On April 19, Major General Michael Barbero of the Joint Staff
told reporters that civilian casualties and attacks on civilians
were down by "approximately 50 percent" in Baghdad, compared to a
six-week period before the start of the Baghdad security
operation in mid February.


On April 12, Major General William Caldwell told reporters in
Baghdad that civilian casualties in the Iraqi capital declined by
26 percent from January through March.


Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver, the spokesman for the
Multi National Forces-Iraq, did not respond to repeated emailed
requests for hard numbers.


In a report last week, the UN Humanitarian Mission For Iraq
(UNAMI) said that although it could not substantiate it
numerically, evidence "nonetheless shows that the high level of
violence continued throughout the reporting period."


"While government officials claimed an initial drop in the number
of killings in the latter half of February following the launch
of the Baghdad Security Plan, the number of reported casualties
rose again in March," it said.


Jeffrey White, a former Defense Intelligence Agency analyst, said
there seems to be some evidence that death squad activity is
down, "and therefore less killing, fewer bodies showing up."


"But how that matches up with the suicide bombings, the car
bombings, and so on -- it's really hard to tell which direction
the overall number of deaths is going in. So, I would say at this
point it is unclear," he said.


Lily Hamourtziadou, a researcher with Iraq Body Count, a website
that closely monitors reports of civilian deaths, said execution-
style killings may have gone down somewhat in Baghdad but are
increasing elsewhere.


"In the past when I was covering these incidents, there might be
one person found in Baqubah, one person in Mosul. Now it's more
than 30 people," she said. "That wasn't there before."


Another alarming trend, she said, are major attacks in which 50
or more people were killed. There were 12 attacks of that
magnitude last year. In the first four months of this year, there
have been 14, she said.


"And they alone have killed 1,500 civilians," she said.


Hamourtziadou has calculated, on the basis of media reports, that
2,588 civilians were killed in Iraq in April. Iraqi government
sources this week came up with a much lower April toll of 1,689
civilian dead.


"Maybe they want to make the situation better than it actually
is," Hamourtziadou said.

