

Australia's central bank cut its inflation forecast for the year
on Friday, easing fears of interest rate increases in the
immediate future.


But the Reserve Bank of Australia's stance on monetary policy
remained unchanged with a tightening bias evident in its policy
statement, economists said.


They said the RBA remains concerned that the Australian economy,
now in its 16th consecutive year of expansion, is operating at
close to full capacity, which could lead to higher inflation.


Interest rates were likely to remain on hold for the rest of 2007
because of the bank's lower inflationary forecast for the next
few quarters but hikes remain on the agenda for early next year,
the economists said.


The bank said in its quarterly statement on monetary policy that
it expected underlying inflation to fall back to about 2.5
percent within the year, down from 2.75 percent over the year to
March 2007.


The central bank had previously forecast inflation to be at about
2.75 percent by the end of 2007. It has an overall inflation
target of 2.0-3.0 percent.


"Since late last year, the bank's assessment has been that
inflation in underlying terms would decline gradually from the
peak of around 3.00 percent reached in the September quarter
2006," it said.


"In recent months, the decline appears to have been a little
faster than originally expected and it now seems likely that
underlying inflation will be about 2.5 percent, or possibly a
little lower, during 2007."


The bank said headline Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation will
fall below 2.00 percent over the next couple of quarters.


In the longer term, however, the bank said it was unlikely that
inflation would continue to decline.


"All available data suggest high capacity utilization, a tight
labour market and strong demand growth. Based on these trends,
inflation is forecast to return to the top half of the target
during 2008," it said.


Underlying inflation was expected to rise to about 2.75 percent
in 2008 and 2009, with headline CPI inflation following a similar
path.


The RBA hiked rates by 25 basis points three times in 2006, with
the last increase in November taking the official cash rate to
6.25 percent.


HSBC Australia chief economist John Edwards said the central bank
had plainly signalled its readiness to hike interest rates if
necessary, but his firm remained of the view that no increase is
likely this year.


Westpac Banking Corp chief economist Bill Evans said the RBA's
forecast of higher inflation in 2008 was a clear signal that it
has not relaxed its tightening bias.


He said the recent lull in inflation pressures would prove
temporary as stable monetary policy and a substantial fiscal
stimulus expected in next Tuesday's federal budget would only
accelerate economic momentum.


"Eventually the stresses on limited capacity will signal that
higher rates are required," Evans said.


He said Westpac's forecast is for two 25 basis points rate hikes
in February and May 2008 to extend the current tightening cycle
to six years and 250 basis points.

