

World 400-metre hurdles champion Bershawn Jackson said Friday the
Japan Grand Prix this weekend would be a dress rehearsal for the
world championships later this year.


The world championships, the last major athletics event before
the 2008 Beijing Olympics, will be held at the same stadium here
in August.


On Saturday, Jackson will take part in a re-match against fellow
American world silver medallist James Carter and bronze medallist
Dai Tamesue of Japan in the third leg of the 13-round IAAF Grand
Prix series.


"Dai Tamesue is a great athlete, he's a great worrior and it's
his home town. This will be a great race, not just you have Dai
Tamesue, but you also have Narisako Kenji and James Carter," said
Jackson.


"All people in the race have great talent, so overall I think it
will be a great performance. I think this race will be a
statement of what's going to happen in the world championships in
Osaka this summer."


"My goal in the world championships is just go out there and
defend the title of the 2005 championships. I think it's one of
the hardest races, very competitive, so my main target is just to
win again," he said.


Carter, who missed the latter half of last season due to an
injury, expects to clock 48 or 47 seconds, but he must qualify
for the US team because there are "a lot of great athletes in the
United States."


"Once I make the world championship team, my goal is to get back
to the podium, my aim is definitely to go out and do my best,"
said Carter.


Meanwhile, Tamesue said he was hoping to improve on bronze at the
world championships.


"I didn't run a hurdle race last season, so tomorrow's race will
be my first in nine or 10 months and I can't anticipate what will
happen, but I feel I started to run faster and faster," said
Tamesue.


"Osaka will be my fourth world championships. I'll just try to
win a medal. I won the bronze medal twice, so I want to win a
different coloured medal."


A total of seven Olympic and nine world medallists will take part
in the Japan Grand Prix with Chinese star hurdler Liu Xiang being
the main attraction after sprint great Maurice Greene withdrew.

