

Ryan Giggs has urged his Manchester United team-mates to shake
off their Champions League disappointment and turn their sights
on a domestic league and cup double.


United face neighbours City in the Manchester derby this weekend
just three days after the comprehensive defeat to AC Milan that
ended hopes of a repeat of their 1999 treble success.


The manner of Milan's 3-0 victory in the San Siro left manager
Sir Alex Ferguson to concede that his side had been well-beaten
but Giggs insists there is no time for United to feel sorry for
themselves.


Last week's victory over Everton, coupled with Chelsea's failure
to beat Bolton Wanderers, gave Ferguson's side a five-point lead
at the head of the Premiership table with just three games
remaining.


And with nearest rivals Chelsea not due to face Arsenal until the
following day, United can take a huge step towards securing their
first title in four years if they can shrug off their European
hangover and win at the City of Manchester Stadium.


"We cannot feel sorry for ourselves," said Giggs. "We have to
remember we still have so much to go for this season.


"Yes, we are greedy, we wanted to win everything this season. Now
we are out of the Champions League, we have to try and win the
double.


"We now have to finish the season on a high and do well in the
league and the FA Cup.


"Saturday was always going to be a big game, no matter what the
result was in Milan.


"Obviously, there is more emphasis on it now because we have to
go there and try to get a positive result to put pressure on
Chelsea for Sunday."


Ferguson defended his gamble of including centre-back Nemanja
Vidic against Milan after a lengthy lay-off with a broken collar-
bone.


And the manager is likely to recall Vidic's usual central
defensive partner Rio Ferdinand against City if the England
defender shows no reaction to the groin strain he collected in
the FA Cup semi-final against Watford while Patrice Evra will
return at left-back after a one-game ban.


For City manager Stuart Pearce, the week has once again been
dominated by Joey Barton's disciplinary problems.


The midfielder added to his list of scrapes when he was suspended
by the club for the remainder of the season after fighting team-
mate Ousmane Dabo in training.


Barton's absence will be a huge loss to Pearce who is attempting
to prevent his side securing the unwanted record of the fewest
home league goals since the Premiership began in 1992.


City have scored ten times at home, one less than Sunderland
managed in 2003, and have not found the net in front of their own
fans since January 1 but Pearce is hoping the atmosphere of a
local derby can lift his side.


"Winning always gives you a lift, but obviously against this mob
it's special in our supporters eyes," said the manager.


"You don't have to concentrate the minds of the players, they
will be aware what a big occasion this is. We know full well that
United are a top-notch side who have been around the top of the
league all season."


City's refusal to move the game back 24 hours to allow United
more time to rest from their European exertions brought an angry
response from Ferguson.


But Pearce insisted: "We've not made this decision to spite
United. We made it because the game has been pencilled in on that
date all season.


"The decision was made on the back of us moving our game with
Everton last year. We had lots of letters from City and Everton
fans who had already made their travel arrangements when the date
and kick off were moved.


"It would be totally unfair to the supporters who have paid a lot
of money for travelling and tickets. That's why the derby game
hasn't been moved."

