

Undefeated Floyd Mayweather, boxing's supreme pound-for-pound
fighter, and Oscar de la Hoya, the sport's most popular figure
today, meet Saturday in one of the top moneymaking bouts of all
time.


Trying to revive the megafight spectacles of glory days in a
sport desperate to retain relevance, the US fighters have hyped
the showdown for months - trash- talking Mayweather playing the
villain as de la Hoya seethed.


"I truly feel Mayweather needs a humbling experience. He's a brat
that needs a reality check. He's very arrogant," de la Hoya said.
"He talks all this trash. It's disrespectful. It really revs me
up to shut him up.


"I'm not going to fight angry. I trained angry, but I'm not going
to fight angry, and that is going to be the difference. When a
fighter just talks that little trash it just sparks something in
me. It takes me to a whole new level."


Mayweather, 37-0 with 24 knockouts, throws punches as fast as he
hurls insults, and his speed and counter-punching skills have
made him a slight oddsmaker favorite over de la Hoya, 38-4 with
30 knockouts.


"I'm the best at talking trash. I'm also the best at going out
there and backing it up," Mayweather said. "I'm hungry. I'm ready
to die in the ring."


Promoters predict more than 100 million dollars in revenue,
rivaling the sport's all-time biggest moneymakers, and hope to
break the pay-per-view mark of 1.98 million purchases for 2002's
Mike Tyson-Lennox Lewis heavyweight fight.


Mexican-American De la Hoya, a world champion in six different
divisions, will become boxing's all-time pay-per-view revenue
leader on Mexican holiday Cinco de Mayo, moving the "Golden Boy"
past Tyson's record 545 million dollars.


The fight will be seen in 176 nations, with England, Australia,
Japan and Mexico showing the greatest interest. It will also be a
huge Vegas moneyspinner with 50,000 watching closed-circuit
telecasts at casinos.


"We want this to go down as the night that saved boxing," said
Richard Schaefer, chief executive of Golden Boy Promotions, de la
Hoya's firm that is staging the fight and taking half the pay-
per-view profits.


De la Hoya, 34, will make 25 million dollars while Mayweather,
30, will take 10 million dollars and try to become a champion in
his fifth different weight class by swiping de la Hoya's World
Boxing Council super-welterweight crown.


"I make fighters pay for their mistakes and every fighter is
going to make a mistake. Oscar's mistake is getting in there with
me," Mayweather said.


"This is not golf. This is not tennis. It's a brutal sport. I'm
in the 'hurt' business. I'm going to beat him down, stomp him and
crush him."


Mayweather has a speed edge and could have superior stamina
should the fight go the full 12 rounds. But taller de la Hoya has
a powerful left hook and jabs that can counteract Mayweather's
formidable right hand.


"People are going to be very surprised at how I'm going to be
able to match his speed," de la Hoya said.


Mayweather has a history of sore hands and should he suffer a
hand injury, de la Hoya is ready to pounce.


"If he hurts his hands and I smell blood, I'm going for it," de
la Hoya said. "If you see a wounded animal, you finish him off. I
would do everything I could to take advantage."


De la Hoya has fought only once in the past 2 1/2 years, stopping
Nicaraguan Ricardo Mayorga a year ago. Mayweather and de la Hoya
have each said this might be their final fight but expect both to
seek bigger future paydays in the ring.


"I really don't think this is it for me," de la Hoya said. "I
still love the fight game too much to quit."


Floyd Mayweather Snr, de la Hoya's former trainer and
Mayweather's estranged father, raised the spectre of dubious
judging. But his son dismissed the idea that de la Hoya's
popularity and promotion potential could lead to shenanigans.


"The Nevada commission has always treated me fair. It will be the
same," Mayweather said. "I'm not worried about them. They are
going to treat me fair."


Freddie Roach, named de la Hoya's trainer after Mayweather Snr's
demand for two million dollars was rejected, has stressed
aggressive moves to de la Hoya, who knows a lackluster defensive
fight after all the hype could cripple boxing.


"Floyd can make this a very boring fight," Roach said. "We're
going to try to impose our will, to engage him, to rough up the
little guy a bit.


"But I would be surprised if he fights any differently than he
ever has. He has never had to make adjustments. His ability has
always been enough."

