

Chievo, whose six-year stay in Serie A has been nothing short of
remarkable given the humble club's limited resources, face a
must-win clash at home to relegation rivals Parma on Sunday.


Based in the suburbs of Verona and run by the cakemaking
Campedelli family, Chievo are third from bottom on 32 points,
three behind Parma with just four games left.


Not since their promotion to Serie A for the first time in 2001
has Chievo's place in the top flight come under threat.


But they now face the very real prospect of returning to Serie B
if they suffer defeat at the weekend against a Parma side buoyant
after three successive victories.


"Our season starts now," said Chievo coach Luigi Del Neri, who
rejoined the club in October last year after unsuccessful spells
at Roma and Palermo.


"We showed great spirit last week against Fiorentina, but ended
up with nothing.


"However I saw many signs of encouragement, and if we show the
same determination and are more clinical when chances come our
way, we can beat Parma."


Chievo are known as the 'Flying Donkeys' after fans of city
rivals Verona said that 'donkeys would fly if Chievo ever made it
into Serie A' before they were made to eat their words.


In their first season in the top flight, Chievo finished fifth
and qualified for the UEFA Cup.


They finished seventh last season but were elevated to fourth
place after various points penalties were handed to those clubs
involved in the Italian match-fixing scandal.


That meant a place in the third qualifying round of the Champions
League, but they failed to reach the competition proper after
losing a two-legged tie against Levski Sofia.


Basement boys Ascoli, who visit fellow strugglers Torino, could
be relegated this weekend, while second from bottom Messina host
champions Inter Milan.


AC Milan, who clinched a place in the Champions League final
after defeating Manchester United 3-0 on Wednesday, host
Fiorentina at the San Siro.


Milan will meet Liverpool in the Athens showpiece in a repeat of
the 2005 final, which the Merseysiders won on penalties.


Docked eight points for their role in the match-fixing scandal,
Milan are currently in third place and almost certain of
qualifying for the third qualifying round of next season's
Champions League.


Lazio host Livorno hoping to claim another three points in their
pursuit of fourth place.


Sunday's fixtures (all 1300 GMT kick-off):


AC Milan v Fiorentina, Atalanta v Siena, Cagliari v Udinese,
Chievo v Parma, Empoli v Catania, Lazio v Livorno, Messina v
Inter Milan, Palermo v Roma, Sampdoria v Reggina, Torino v Ascoli

