

Six games to go in the tightest three-way Spanish title race for
five years and reigning champions Barcelona have a single point
lead over Sevilla with Real Madrid just another point back in
third.


Barcelona will be looking to continue their campaign for a third
successive title with a win at relegation-threatened Real
Sociedad, knowing that their two main rivals must face each other
24 hours later.


"I think everybody is starting to get a little nervous. Now it's
just a question of controlling those nerves because the final
games will be a little strange," admitted Barca defender
Sylvinho.


"But I still think Barcelona are going to come out on top despite
the fact that Real Madrid are now playing well and Sevilla have
had an incredible season," added the Brazilian.


One blow for Rijkaard will be the absence of his swift Portuguese
right winger Deco, who sprained his left ankle in training on
Thursday and looks set to be on the sidelines for two weeks.


Deco acquired his injury because of an over-enthusiastic tackle
by Ludovic Giuly and, with a curious twist of fate, it is likely
to be the French international who replaces his team mate on
Saturday.


Real Sociedad, who are second from bottom, have shown in recent
weeks that they are not going to down without a fight and have
won three of their last five games to give them hope of staying
up.


"This game is the most difficult we've had to face recently. They
are the best team in the league, the favourites to win again and
nobody knows what's going to happen," conceded Sociedad
midfielder Gaizka Garitano.


Last season, Barcelona beat the San Sebastian-based side 2-0 in
their Anoeta stadium and Garitano clearly fears that a similar
result could be on the cards.


"We are not expecting to lose, we are not going to give anything
away but you never know which of their players is going to rise
to the occasion. Sometimes it can be Eto'o, sometimes it's
Ronaldinho, sometimes it can be Messi," added Garitano.


Real Madrid play host to second-placed Sevilla knowing that a win
for either team will make them the main contenders to Barcelona
down the final straight of the championship.


"We've put in a great effort and if we win the league now, then
we'll have deserved it," said Real's Spanish international
defender Sergio Ramos.


"In some respects, the match against Sevilla is like a final.
Three points in this match could decide who wins the league.
Sadly, it (winning La Liga) now doesn't depend on us but we are
going to try to keep up the pressure on our rivals."


However, Ramos has mixed emotions about the clash with Sevilla.


He was born-and-bred in the Andalusian city and has been a
supporter of the club since childhood.


Sevilla successfully nurtured Ramos, to the point where he won a
European under-19 title with Spain in 2004, before selling him
very profitably to Real at the start of last season.


Controversially, former England captain David Beckham is expected
to start for Real after the Spanish football association decided
on Thursday to cancel the yellow card he picked up during the 4-1
win at Athletic Bilbao last Sunday.


The booking, which would have been Beckham's 10th this season,
for not retreating fast enough at a free kick should have led to
a one match suspension.


"The yellow card was clear enough. The rules are there for
everybody and there shouldn't be differences between one player
and another and one team and another," said an incensed Sevilla
coach Juande Ramos on Thursday.


Saturday (Kick off in GMT)


Real Sociedad v Barcelona (1800)


Deportivo La Coruna v Valencia (2000)


Sunday


Real Betis v Getafe (1500)


Levante v Gimnastic Tarragona (1500)


Real Mallorca v Osasuna (1500)


Recreativo Huelva v Athletic Bilbao (1500)


Villarreal v Celta Vigo (1500)


Real Zaragoza v Racing Santander (1500)


Espanyol v Atletico Madrid (1700)


Real Madrid v Sevilla (1900)

