

Casinos in Asia, take heed: There is no such thing as a foolproof
hi-tech system for catching professional cheats.


That's the warning from former swindler Richard Marcus, who says
he ripped off 20 million US dollars (15 million euros) from the
world's gaming tables over more than two decades.


Marcus, 50, is now a consultant to the casinos he used to cheat.


He was never caught despite the array of surveillance gear
installed by gaming operators in Las Vegas, Monte Carlo, Macau
and Australia, he told AFP in a recent interview.


"I was the most wanted casino cheater ever in the history of the
world. They just could never catch me," Marcus said, his face
beaming with pride at his 25-year track record.


He says he remained at large partly because casinos are too
reliant on technology to catch the con men.


Asia's gaming industry is undergoing an unprecedented expansion
and will face the same problem, said Marcus, an American now
living in Paris.


"There is never a foolproof system because it depends on people.
Never 100 percent," he said on the sidelines of a regional gaming
conference in Singapore.


"No matter how many millions of dollars they invest in
surveillance systems, if you don't have the people, if the people
are not smart, they are going to get beat anyway and that's the
problem."


Even Asian casinos run by Las Vegas Sands and other heavyweights
of the industry are ill-equipped to handle professional cheats
because their local staff lack experience, Marcus said.


Sands spearheaded the expansion of gaming in the southern Chinese
enclave of Macau, a former Portuguese colony, when Sands Macau
opened in 2004.


Las Vegas Sands is also developing one of Singapore's two multi-
billion-dollar gaming complexes. Malaysia's Genting International
has broken ground on the city-state's other gaming and
entertainment development.


Early in April, Macau said it had overtaken the Las Vegas Strip
as the world's biggest casino draw, saying it raked in more than
seven billion US dollars in 2006, five years after the sector was
liberalised there.


"All the cheating teams, especially the ones that are good, they
are going to converge in Macau more and more because you have
big, brand new casinos with inexperienced people," Marcus said.


"So they are going to get killed," he said.


Marcus also foresees a similar "big problem" in Singapore when
the Sands and Genting-run complexes open by 2010.


"Big problem because it's a brand new area and it's going to be
loads of inexperienced people, especially the dealers," he
explained. "They are going to get destroyed."


He said casino operators can limit the financial damage from
professional cheats by following his advice and placing more
emphasis on training staff to detect deft moves at the gaming
tables.


"I teach them certain moves to look for," Marcus said.


He also trains casino surveillance teams. But security is not
just their responsibility -- no one from the dealers to the one
monitoring the video cameras can afford to relax, he said.


"The problem with casinos is the people on the floor. They feel
so secure because of the cameras that they don't really do their
jobs," said Marcus.


"The casinos are big now and in order for them to really protect
their games, everybody has to be on guard."


Marcus said he quit cheating in 2000 because he had made enough
money, and it is "almost like a natural crossover" to go from
casino swindler to consultant.


"I do it mainly because I need to be doing something to keep my
mind going," he said.


He has written five books about gambling cheats, including
"American Roulette," a memoir of his own experiences as a jet-
setting casino swindler.


"People love scam stories where the small guys make all the money
and nobody really gets hurt," he said. "I never hurt anybody."

