

The Golden State Warriors completed a stunning first-round
National Basketball Association playoff upset of Western
Conference top seeds Dallas Thursday with a 111-86 game six
triumph.


The Warriors, who had scraped a playoff berth on the last night
of the regular season, completed a four-games-to-two series
victory over a Mavericks team that won a league-leading 67
regular season games and had their sights set on returning to the
NBA finals for the second straight year.


"It's so disappointing you can't even describe it," said Dallas
star Dirk Nowitzki, a top contender for Most Valuable Player
honors for his regular-season exploits.


"We played our heart out for six, seven months. We won 67 games,
and it really means nothing at this point."


The departure of Dallas means that neither of last year's NBA
finalists made it out of the first round. The Miami Heat, who
defeated the Mavericks for the championship last season, fell to
the Chicago Bulls in the Eastern Conference first round.


Stephen Jackson scored 33 points, including a career-high seven
3-pointers, while Baron Davis ignored a sore hamstring to collect
20 points, 10 rebounds and six assists as the Warriors became the
first eighth seed to oust a No. 1 seed in a best-of-seven series.


Matt Barnes had 16 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists for
Golden State, who are making their first playoff appearance since
1994.


The Warriors, who led by two points at the half, broke open the
game in the third period, when they out-scored the Mavericks
36-15.


"We just had one of the worst third quarters we had all year,"
Dallas coach Avery Johnson said.


"Man they got on a huge run there," he said. "They got all of
their shots, we got jump-shot happy in that stretch.


"We didn't penetrate as much as we should have. We couldn't get
any stops. They were hurting us on the pick and rolls. They just
did a good job of playing offense and defense."


Davis, the star of the playoffs to this point, tweaked his
hamstring early in the game. But after receiving treatment, he
came back to shoot 7-of-17 from the field.


Jackson, who had been ejected twice in the series, including at
the end of game five, shot 10-of-19 from the field, including a
remarkable 7-of-8 from 3-point range.


Meanwhile Nowitzki endured a nightmare game, scoring just eight
points on 2-of-13 shooting.


"This series I couldn't really put my stamp on it the way I
wanted to, and that's why I'm very disappointed," Nowitzki said.


The Warriors had not won a playoff series since 1991, when Don
Nelson guided that squad to a 3-1 series victory over the San
Antonio Spurs.


Despite an impressive recent record against Dallas, the Warriors
weren't expected to be able to go the distance against the
Mavericks in a best-of-seven series.


Dallas' 67 victories were a franchise record - tied for sixth-
best in NBA history - earned them home court advantage throughout
the playoffs.


In the second round, the Warriors will face the winner of the
first-round series between Houston and Utah.


The Jazz staved off elimination on Thursday with a 94-82 victory
over the Rockets that evened their series at three games apiece.


Carlos Boozer scored 22 points and Mehmet Okur added 14 of his 19
in the second half.


That series heads to Houston for game seven on Saturday. Each
team has won three games on its home court.


"I was pleased with the effort that our guys put in to try and
win the game," Jazz coach Jerry Sloan said. "I know we had our
backs against the wall and I thought the club did a fine job."


Utah led the entire second half and took a 68-62 advantage into
the final period, but two free throws by Tracy McGrady capped a
12-5 run by Houston that narrowed the deficit to 77-76 with 4:45
left. But that one-point margin was as close as the Rockets came.


"We couldn't get our stops, and when we did get a shot, we
weren't able to convert," McGrady said. "It was right there, man,
one point. "We put ourselves in a great position to pull this
game out."

