

The United States has submitted a detailed plan to Israel and the
Palestinians over easing restrictions on movement in the
Palestinian territories and improving security, a senior official
said Friday.


The document sets out a timetable for implementing the measures,
aimed at easing Israeli restrictions on movement on Palestinians
in the occupied West Bank and Gaza and addressing Israeli
security concerns, Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat told
AFP, welcoming the measure.


"It is a very good approach," Erakat said. "It is a timeline with
monitors that sets out obligations by the Palestinians and the
Israelis and is aimed at deeds, not words."


"We need guarantees and we need guidelines," he said, adding that
the Palestinian government had not yet fully agreed to all the
measures spelled out in the plan and would discuss it further
with the Americans.


US and Israeli officials declined to immediately comment.


According to a copy of the document obtained by Israel's liberal
Haaretz daily, it sets out a timeline for implementing steps on
security and movement.


By July 1, for example, a bus service would be established to
enable Palestinians to travel between West Bank and the Gaza
Strip five times a week. Currently the Palestinians can travel
between the two territories only after obtaining Israeli transit
permits, a long and often futile process.


By mid-June, the Israelis would be obligated to dismantle a
series of checkpoints near the West Bank towns of Bethlehem,
Hebron and Nablus.


On the security side, the Palestinians would have until June 21
to establish a detailed plan to prevent the launching of rockets
that are regularly fired by Gaza-based militants into the Jewish
state.


By the start of June, the Israeli army and the Palestinians would
have to reestablish liaison centres to discuss implementation of
the measures in the West Bank and Gaza.


The US, Israel's main ally, has increased its efforts during the
past several months at jumpstarting the peace talks between the
Israelis and Palestinians, which have been stalled for six years.

