

A packed field of Republican White House hopefuls vowed to pursue
victory in Iraq and castigated anti-war Democrats Thursday, in
their first head-to-head showdown of the 2008 campaign.


The 10 declared candidates chose to spare beleaguered President
George W. Bush from a torrent of criticism and warned Iran
represented a dire threat, as the Islamic Republic was accused of
pursuing a "nightmare" nuclear quest.


Nine months before first votes were cast in the party nominating
process, the candidates laid claim to the legacy of Republican
icon Ronald Reagan, as they met at the late former president's
library.


Senator John McCain, one of the heavyweight Republicans chasing
frontrunner former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani, savaged
Democrats in Congress, saying their bid to force the withdrawal
of US soldiers from Iraq equaled surrender.


"We must win in Iraq. If we withdraw, there will be chaos, there
will be genocide and they will follow us home," he said, in the
debate which followed last week's similar encounter among
Democrats.


He also said it was worth spending billions to catch Osama bin
Laden, saying: "I'll follow (him) to the gates of hell."


McCain came closest to attacking Bush, saying the war was
mismanaged though he has been an outspoken supporter of the
president's strategy to send nearly 30,000 troops more troops
into Iraq.


"The war was terribly mismanaged," McCain said, "and we now have
to fix a lot of the mistakes that were made."


Texas congressman Ron Paul, the toughest critic of the war in the
debate, questioned the administration's motives. "Don't get into
it for political reasons or pretend the Iraqis were a national
threat to us," he said.


But a leading candidate, former Massachusetts governor Mitt
Romney, who is vying to be the first Mormon US president, warned
of regional chaos if American troops left Iraq too swiftly.


"I want to get our troops home as soon as I possibly can ... if
we leave in the wrong way, the Iranians could seize the Shiite
south," he said.


He also insisted that Osama bin Laden "is going to have to pay or
he will die."


Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, considered an
outside chance for the nomination added: "It's important that we
finish the job, and do it right, rather than some day have to go
back and do it over."


The candidates faced off in the shadow of a gleaming airliner
once used as Air Force One by Reagan, who died in 2004 aged 93,
in front of an audience including Hollywood tough guy turned
California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.


While no one appeared to separate themselves from the field,
there were no campaign-ending gaffes either, in the first key
test of the Republican race.


Specific policy proposals were also largely absent.


Seeking approval from conservative Republicans who often favor a
robust foreign policy and appear underwhelmed with the field,
several candidates also laid into Iran.


"Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism. We all know that. Iran
continues their efforts to build nuclear weapons," McCain said in
the debate among 10 candidates.


"My greatest fear is the Iranians acquire a nuclear weapon and
give it to a terrorist organization and there is a real threat of
them doing that," said McCain, who also called for a more intense
US diplomacy to end the showdown.


Giuliani, who leads opinion polls in the Republican race,
admitted that the use of force against Tehran would be "very
dangerous" but not as dangerous as a nuclear-armed Iran, and took
a swipe at President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.


"It's the worst nightmare of the Cold War isn't it? The nuclear
weapons in the hands of an irrational person, an irrational
force," said Giuliani.


"Ahmadinejad is clearly irrational."


McCain, hoping to bounce back from a lackluster start to his
campaign, vowed to pursue Al-Qaeda terror mastermind Osama bin
Laden "to the gates of hell." Romney added : "He is going to pay,
and he will die."


Giuliani, running a campaign rooted in his leadership during the
September 11 attacks in 2001, was trying to shield his clear
early lead in opinion polls.


The former New York mayor was the only candidate to say it would
be "OK" if the US Supreme Court upheld a woman's right to
terminate a pregnancy. Abortion is a defining issue for many
conservatives.


An average of recent polls puts Giuliani at around 33 percent of
likely Republican voters, well clear of McCain.


Despite Republican Bush's woes on Iraq, Giuliani and McCain do
well in head-to- heads against possible Democratic nominees
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.


That despite national polls that have 50 percent of voters
aligning with the Democrats while 35 percent side with
Republicans.


The debate also included long-shot candidates: former Virginia
Governor Jim Gilmore, Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, former Bush
administration cabinet member Tommy Thompson, and conservative
Colorado congressman Tom Tancredo.


Texas congressman Ron Paul and Representative Duncan Hunter were
also taking part but several potentially strong candidates who
have not yet declared their intentions were not there, including
former senator and screen star Fred Thompson.

