

The Australian government signalled Friday that it is likely to
call on the country's world champion cricketers to cancel a
planned tour of Zimbabwe this year.


Prime Minister John Howard, a strong critic of the regime of
President Robert Mugabe, said the government would pay fines of
up to 1.6 million US dollars which could be imposed by the
International Cricket Council.


Australia, who wrapped up a third successive World Cup victory in
the Caribbean last week, are due to play three one-day
internationals in the troubled southern African nation in
September.


Howard told reporters he and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer
would discuss the tour with Cricket Australia "because the
situation in Zimbabwe has deteriorated very badly".


He said players should be consulted on the issue but the
government would make the final decision on whether the tour
should proceed.


"In the end, foreign policy decisions have got to be taken by
governments and the situation in Zimbabwe is quite unacceptable,"
he said.


"We would indemnify Cricket Australia for any compensation it
might have to pay to the international body. It would not be fair
to visit the cost of a foreign policy decision on a sporting
body."


Mugabe's regime has drawn international criticism over its brutal
crushing of dissent last month as the country spirals into
economic meltdown, with inflation running at more than 2,000
percent.


Australian captain Ricky Ponting, speaking Thursday before
Howard's remarks, raised the possibility of some players
boycotting the tour if it went ahead.


"There are some issues there and every individual player will be
asked what their own views on that are, and they'll have a chance
to make up their own mind what they want to do," he told The
Australian newspaper.


Zimbabwe's most outspoken cleric, Catholic Archbishop of Bulawayo
Pius Ncube, is visiting Australia as a guest of the government
and has made clear his support for a tour boycott.


"Whenever there is a touring sporting team there is a lot of
focus on it to show there is nothing wrong with Zimbabwe," he
told the Sydney Morning Herald.


"My encouragement would be let's boycott and not go there, so
that in this way we can embarrass and put pressure on this
immoral government of Mugabe and his cronies."


Howard made clear his desire to send a protest message to
Zimbabwe by cancelling the tour, criticising South African
President Thabo Mbeki and other African leaders for failing to
stand up to Mugabe.


"No pressure will be applied on Mugabe by the people who should
apply the pressure -- people like the South African president and
others," he said.


"They're the people, they are his colleagues ... they're his
fraternal colleagues and they are people who should be applying
the pressure, but it's not coming out."

