

The finance ministers of Japan, China and South Korea pledged
Friday to step up financial cooperation to prevent regional
currency turmoil, while taking an upbeat view on the economic
outlook.


They agreed to work on a multi-nation currency swap arrangement
together with Southeast Asian nations that could swing into
action more quickly in the event of a currency crisis, and to
foster Asian bond markets.


The ministers noted "the continued solid growth" in their three
economies but said they would remain vigilant on potential risks
such as high oil prices and the US housing market slowdown.


"In general we were optimistic about the economic prospects for
both regional and global economies in 2007," they said in a joint
statement.


They welcomed the deepening bilateral swap arrangements under the
Chiang Mai Initiative that was set up in 2000 in a bid to prevent
a repeat of the financial crisis that rocked the region a decade
ago.


The ministers pledged "to further strengthen our efforts" to
develop a multilateral system of currency swaps that could be
quicker and more effective than arrangements between individual
countries.


Southeast Asian nations with small, open economies such as
Thailand are seen as particularly exposed to currency volatility,
while Japan and China have huge foreign exchange reserves to
prevent against speculative attacks.


But the statement made no mention of Japan's desire for China to
make its currency more flexible and to allow an appreciation of
the yuan against the dollar.


In July 2005, China delinked the yuan from the dollar, revalued
it by 2.1 percent and put it into a currency basket system, with
a trading limit of only 0.3 percent either side of the reference
rate against the US unit each day.


The talks between Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi, Chinese
Finance Minister Jin Renqing and South Korean Finance and Economy
Minister Kwon O Kyu were held on the sidelines of an Asian
Development Bank meeting in Kyoto.


Finance ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
as well as China, Japan and South Korea also meet here Saturday
to discuss how to bolster their defences against a possible
repeat of the 1997 regional financial crisis.


ASEAN groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

