

US President George W. Bush has been dropped from Time magazine's
list of the world's 100 most influential people for the first
time, in a further sign of his flagging political fortunes.


While Osama bin Laden, Pope Benedict XVI and even Borat creator
Sacha Baron Cohen managed to find a spot on the fourth annual
list due to hit newsstands Friday, the magazine decided that Bush
just didn't make the grade any more.


"I think Bush by this point in his presidency probably has less
influence than the position should grant him automatically,"
Time's Deputy Managing Editor Adi Ignatius told AFP, explaining
the decision to ditch Bush.


"He's a lame duck ... but his influence is below that of a normal
lame duck figure. We just thought Bush was at a low ebb in terms
of his influence."


However, plenty of other politicians, notably Democratic
presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, managed
to squeeze into a packed and varied field of entertainers,
philanthropists, sportsmen and entrepreneurs.


The "artists and entertainers" category includes Hollywood
heavyweights Martin Scorsese, Cate Blanchett and heart-throbs
Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio, along with fashion model Kate
Moss.


Pop sensation Justin Timberlake is named along with Senegalese
musician Youssou N'Dour, while former US vice president Al Gore's
shift to environmental campaigner got him nominated in the
"scientists and thinkers" category.


The list, which is designed to recognize "the men and women whose
power, talent or moral example is transforming our world," does
not appear in any order or give the magazine's reasons why some
people were chosen over others.


The "leaders and revolutionaries" category features Queen
Elizabeth II, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni -- in an entry
penned by US counterpart Condoleezza Rice -- and Rice herself,
appearing for a fourth year running.


California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger makes a showing next to
Raul Castro, the younger brother of Cuban leader Fidel Castro,
Indian Congress Party leader Sonia Gandhi and Chinese President
Hu Jintao.


Other politicians in the mix include German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, US House
of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Liu Qi, head of the
2008 Beijing Olympics committee.


Besides Rice, US talk show host Oprah Winfrey is the only person
to have appeared all four years, featuring in the "heroes and
pioneers" section in an entry written by anti-apartheid
campaigner Nelson Mandela.


Other "heroes" include billionaire investor and philanthropist
Warren Buffett, rubbing shoulders with tennis champion Roger
Federer, footballer Thierry Henry and Chinese online activist
Zeng Jinyan.

