

A second autopsy will be performed on the body of Pakistan
cricket coach Bob Woolmer to ward off any speculation that the
initial examination may have been bungled, British media reported
Wednesday.


Deputy police commissioner Mark Shields was quoted by British
newspapers as saying that a fresh post-mortem had been ordered to
counter possible claims from defence lawyers in the event of an
arrest.


"If we arrest someone and charge them, the defence counsel will
want a second post-mortem," Shields told The Times.


Jamaica police could not immediately be contacted to confirm the
reports and it was not clear when the second autopsy would take
place. A news conference was scheduled for later Wednesday.


Woolmer's naked body was found in his room at the Jamaica Pegasus
Hotel in Kingston on March 18, one day after Pakistan were dumped
out of the World Cup by minnows Ireland.


Kingston pathologist Ere Seshaiah later ruled that Woolmer was
killed by "manual strangulation," sparking a murder hunt that has
rocked the cricket world and led to speculation about match-
fixing in the sport.


However a whispering campaign has gathered pace suggesting that
the initial post-mortem was flawed, and that Woolmer may have
broken a bone in his neck by falling heavily against a bathroom
sink instead of being throttled.


Asked to comment on the speculation on Monday, Shields said he
was confident that Woolmer was murdered, citing evidence from the
crime scene not yet disclosed to the public which supported the
initial findings.


"There is very clear evidence of murder," Shields told reporters.


Police on Tuesday issued a fresh appeal for information about
Woolmer's killing, setting up a 24-hour international hotline as
they try to track down every guest and visitor at the Pegasus in
the 72 hours before Woolmer's death.


The appeal came amid speculation that the investigative trail
into Woolmer's killing has gone cold, and the crime may take
months to solve.


Shields said Tuesday that all lines of enquiry remained open, and
dismissed claims from Pakistan's team spokesman Pervez Mir that
the shell-shocked squad had been eliminated from the murder
investigation.


"That's a pretty inaccurate statement, because nobody at this
stage can be ruled out of the inquiry," said Shields, who last
week said Woolmer was probably murdered by someone he knew.


Pakistan's cricketers were forced to run a gauntlet of angry fans
as they finally returned home on Wednesday following their
calamitous campaign.


Dozens of police surrounded allrounder Shahid Afridi, spinner
Danish Kaneria, wicket keeper Kamran Akmal and paceman Mohammad
Sami as they were jostled by fans at Karachi International
Airport.


"Why have you come back?" one shouted, while another supporter
bellowed "Go to hell" at Afridi, an AFP reporter said.


The returning players said they had been told not to talk about
the Woolmer murder investigation.


"The police did ask us a few questions but these were normal
inquiries. We have been asked by the PCB (Pakistan Cricket Board)
not to speak much on the issue," Afridi told waiting media. He
added: "Just pray for us."


Akmal refused to talk specifically about Woolmer's murder but
said: "We all loved Bob. He was like a father to all of us."

