

Following is an AFP translation from Arabic of a resolution
reviving an Arab plan for peace with Israel, which was adopted by
Arab leaders on the first day of their annual summit in Riyadh on
Wednesday.


The resolution is titled "Activation of the Arab peace
initiative."


The (Arab) League council at summit level,


- After examining:


-- The secretary general's report on joint Arab action,


-- The final report of the commission charged with following up
the implementation of resolutions and obligations,


- Recalling Resolution 221 of the Beirut summit dated March 28,
2002 which launched the Arab peace initiative,


- Affirming again the Arab commitment to a just and comprehensive
peace as a strategic option, that the peace process is a
comprehensive process that cannot be divided, that just and
comprehensive peace in the region cannot be achieved except
through a full Israeli withdrawal from occupied Palestinian and
Arab territories, including the occupied Syrian Arab Golan
Heights, to the lines of June 4, 1967, as well as the remaining
occupied territories in south Lebanon, and the achievement of a
just and agreed upon solution to the problem of Palestinian
refugees in keeping with UN General Assembly Resolution 194 of
1948 and rejection of all forms of resettlement (of Palestinian
refugees in the countries where they now live), and the
establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian state
with east Jerusalem as its capital,


- And after reviewing Arab and international efforts to revive
the peace process,


Decides to:


1. Affirm the commitment of all Arab states to the Arab peace
initiative as approved at the Beirut summit in 2002 in all its
elements, and which is based on the resolutions and principles of
international legitimacy, in order to end the Arab-Israeli
conflict and establish a comprehensive and just peace which
provides security for all states of the region and enables the
Palestinian people to set up their independent state with east
Jerusalem as its capital.


2. Reaffirm the call to the government of Israel and all Israelis
to accept the Arab peace initiative and seize the opportunity to
resume the process of direct and serious negotiations on all
tracks.


3. Mandate the Arab ministerial committee in charge of the Arab
peace initiative to pursue its efforts and set up working teams
to undertake the necessary contacts with the secretary general of
the United Nations, UN Security Council member states, the
Quartet and the parties concerned with the peace process with a
view to resuming the peace process, rallying support for this
initiative, and initiating serious negotiations on the basis of
agreed upon terms of reference, namely pertinent UN resolutions,
the principle of land for peace, and the principle of the
inadmissibility of capturing others' territory by force.


4. Mandate the league council at ministerial level to continue
assessing the situation with regard to current peace efforts and
their effectiveness and decide the next moves accordingly.

