

Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke said Wednesday a slump in
the US housing market has not yet spilled over to the broader
economy, but did not rule out the possibility of a more severe
slowdown.


Bernanke, speaking to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress,
left intact his outlook for "moderate" economic growth while
noting the risks from what he said was an "uncertain" situation
in the real estate market.


The central bank chief acknowledged the possibility of a more
severe downturn in housing, as well as manufacturing, which could
drag the overall economy lower. But for the moment, he said this
has not occurred.


"Thus far, the weakness in housing and manufacturing does not
appear to have spilled over to any significant extent to other
sectors of the economy," Bernanke said in his prepared remarks.


"Overall, the economy appears likely to continue to expand at a
moderate pace over the coming quarters."


But Bernanke appeared to hedge his outlook, chiefly due to the
weakness in the property market.


"The principal source of the slowdown in economic growth that
began last spring has been the substantial correction in the
housing market," he said, adding that "the near-term prospects
for the housing market remain uncertain."


"The correction in the housing market could turn out to be more
severe than we currently expect, perhaps exacerbated by problems
in the subprime sector," he said, referring to the growing rate
of failures in mortgages held by people with below-average credit
histories, known as subprime loans.


He added that "we could yet see greater spillover from the
weakness in housing to employment and consumer spending than has
occurred thus far."


Bernanke also stuck to the statement made by the Federal Open
Market Committee earlier this month that inflation remains high
but is likely to subside.


"Core inflation, which is a better measure of the underlying
inflation trend than overall inflation, seems likely to moderate
gradually over time," he said, referring to core prices excluding
food and energy costs.


But he also said "the risks to this forecast are to the upside"
because of tight labor markets and an uncertain outlook for
energy prices.

