

The Canadian Wheat Board will be stripped of its local monopoly
on 10 percent of the world's malt barley, a key ingredient in
beer, by August, Agriculture Minister Chuck Strahl said
Wednesday.


The grain marketing board, which sold 3.5 billion dollars (3.0
billion US) in barley and wheat last year, had asked local
farmers in a plebiscite ordered by Ottawa whether it should
maintain its grip on Canadian barley exports.


Almost 62 percent responded they want the option to market their
own barley, versus 37 percent who wished to maintain the board's
barley cartel.


"A significant majority of barley growers want marketing choice,"
Strahl told reporters.


"Their decision in favor of marketing choice is clear and we
intend to give them that opportunity in the coming crop year ...
by August 1 of this year."


The Canadian Wheat Board has sold wheat and barley to customers
around the globe, mostly to Japan, China, the United States, Sri
Lanka, Morocco, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia in recent years.


It was created in the early 1900s to help Canadian farmers pool
their risk during two world wars and the collapse of grain prices
at the onset of the Great Depression in 1929.


In 2005-2006, Canadian farmers produced about 10 million bushels
of barley for domestic and international brewers. Analysts now
predict a slight drop in average barley prices in the world
market.


Only half of an estimated 56,000 Canadian barley growers cast a
ballot.


Support for the Canadian Wheat Board's grain monopoly was split
in most western provinces, except in Alberta, the Conservative
heartland, where farmers overwhelmingly chose not to retain the
board's holding (80 percent).


A second vote to dismantle the marketing board's larger wheat
cartel is now expected to follow, affecting 10 percent of global
wheat sales and half of all durum wheat used to make pasta.


But Strahl said he promised international buyers a wheat
referendum would not be held this year.


Opponents of the plan fear stripping the board of its legal
barley and eventually its wheat monopoly would leave only a
shell, a voluntary marketing board with little clout in world
markets.


It would also leave only one "single desk" system for marketing
grain, in Australia, and bolster the dominance of a handful of
European and US firms, such as Cargil, Louis Dreyfus and Archer
Daniels Midland, in the competing open market system, they said.

