

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy said in an
elections programme released Wednesday that he wanted to reform
France by restoring the value of work.


"The rehabilitation of work is at the heart of my presidential
plan," said Sarkozy in the 16-page document released on the
website of the financial newspaper La Tribune.


With less than four weeks to go before the first round of voting,
Sarkozy released the programme as a response to the 100-point
presidential pact presented last month by Socialist rival
Segolene Royal.


"For 25 years we have been living in a state of resignation,"
said the candidate of the governing rightwing Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP).


He vowed to "end this fatalism, this renunciation, this
resignation."


His proposals included a mandatory secret vote by workers after
eight days of strike, a measure aimed at putting an end to
prolonged work stoppages in factories and offices.


He also pledged to present a bill this summer guaranteeing
minimum essential services during a strike.


Sarkozy, the son of a Hungarian immigrant, has promised a "clean
break" with France's politics of the past. He is slightly ahead
of Royal in public opinion polls.


But polls show a large number of voters remain undecided and the
race is seen as too close to call.


In the programme, Sarkozy took aim at the 35-hour working week
created under the Socialist government, saying it had failed to
put a dent in the jobless rate, currently at 8.6 percent.


He pledged to bring down unemployment to five percent in five
years by changing laws that were "impeding work."


Turning to the tense suburbs that erupted into riots in late
2005, Sarkozy pledged to restore law and order "and end gang
rule" in the predominantly immigrant areas.


"I will put aside a lot of money for the suburbs, for education,
training, urban renewal, public services, transport and economic
activity," he said.


The former interior minister, who left his post last week to
devote himself fully to his campaign, reiterated his proposal for
an immigration and national identity ministry.


"Concerning immigration, more problems lie ahead of us than those
behind us and there is no other solution but a responsible policy
that reconciles controlled immigration and co-development," he
said.


The 15-chapter programme is to be formally launched on Thursday
and a news conference is scheduled for Monday.

