

Iran on Wednesday showed the first pictures of 15 detained
British navy personnel after Britain froze contacts between the
two in an escalating dispute over the captives.


Britain angrily condemned the images of the eight sailors and
seven marines shown by Iranian television, in which the only
woman among them apparently admitted that the group had
trespassed into Iranian waters.


Iran said Faye Turney, 26, would soon be released but there was
no easing of tensions between London and Tehran over the crisis
now almost one week old.


The footage included pictures of Turney in a black headscarf, but
also a letter she had written to her family.


The Britons were pictured having a meal, and Turney, the mother
of a three-year- old girl, said: "Obviously we trespassed in the
waters."


Iran has insisted the Britons were in Iranian waters when
detained last Friday.


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors.


In a letter to her family released by the Iranian embassy in
London, Turney also said "I have written a letter to the Iranian
people to apologise for us entering into their waters."


She ended: "Please don't worry about me. I'm staying strong.
Hopefully it won't be long until I'm home to get ready for
Molly's birthday party" -- a reference to her three-year-old
daughter.


The report did not say when or where the footage was filmed and
the authenticity of the letter could not immediately be
confirmed.


An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman told AFP that Turney would
be freed "within a day or two."


But Britain reacted angrily to the images. "It is completely
unacceptable for these pictures to be shown on television," a
Foreign Office spokesman told AFP in London.


"There is no doubt that all personnel were seized in Iraqi waters
and were entitled to be there."


Amid mounting tensions, heightened by US navy exercises in the
Gulf, Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett announced the freeze in
government-to-government contact in a statement to the British
parliament.


"We need to focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on
the resolution of this issue," she said. "We will therefore be
imposing a freeze on all other official bilateral business with
Iran."


Britain also revealed evidence that it said showed the 15 were in
Iraqi waters when detained.


Iran rejected this and played down Britain's decision to freeze
contacts with Tehran, saying ties were already "cold and
inactive," the official news agency IRNA quoted a foreign
ministry source as saying.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair emphasised his country's
determination in the dispute.


"It is now time to ratchet up the diplomatic and international
pressure" on Tehran, Blair told lawmakers, adding that "there was
no justification whatever" for the detention of the sailors.


"It was completely unacceptable, wrong and illegal," he said.


The prime minister said Britain was in contact with "all our key
allies" over the dispute in order to "step up the pressure" on
the Iranian government.


Speaking for the European Union, German Chancellor Angela Merkel
called Iran's action "unacceptable" and renewed a call for the
soldiers' release.


"The British have our full solidarity here," she said.


NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer also called for
their immediate release.


The captives have been held at a secret location but Turkish
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at an Arab summit in
Saudi Arabia that diplomats from his country might be allowed
access to them.


British military chiefs used maps and GPS coordinates to affirm
that the navy personnel were 1.7 nautical miles (3.15 kilometres)
within Iraqi waters at the northern end of the Gulf. It gave the
coordinates as 29 degrees 50.36 minutes north and 48 degrees
43.08 minutes east.


The Iranian embassy in London insisted that the British personnel
had "illegally entered" up to 500 metres (550 yards) within
Iranian territorial waters.


But the embassy said it was "confident the two governments are
capable of resolving this security case through their close
contacts and cooperation."


London argues that the captured personnel were conducting
"routine" anti- smuggling operations when they were seized at
gunpoint.


There has been speculation that Tehran could use the British
personnel either to trade for five Iranians being held by US
forces in Iraq or for concessions over Iran's controversial
nuclear programme.


Beckett said Wednesday that Iran had denied any such motivation.


The United States, which has already voiced "concern and outrage"
over the incident, denied that an unusual exercise involving two
US aircraft carrier strike groups in the Gulf was aimed at
raising tensions with Iran.


Washington said it was to reassure friends and allies.


In New York meanwhile, oil prices surged to six-month highs as
Britain froze ties with Iran and rumours grew of a possible
military clash between the West and the Islamic Republic.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, jumped 1.15 dollars to close at 64.08 dollars a
barrel.

