

Fast-food giant Burger King said Wednesday it was beefing up its
purchases of pork and eggs from farmers who practice more humane
animal treatment.


Burger King said it would increase purchases from producers who
avoid keeping their animals tightly confined in crates and cages,
following the advice of an animal welfare panel.


"We're going to expand our purchases of the cage-free eggs and
pork as the supply increases and pricing becomes competitive,"
said Steve Grover, a Burger King vice president of food safety.


Burger King's new program applies to its operations across the
United States and Canada.


"We reached our conclusions based on the advice of Burger King's
animal welfare advisory board, and in general where we think we
can support the recommendations of an animal advisor, our staff
will work to implement those recommendations," Grover said.


Animal welfare groups, including PETA (People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals) and The Humane Society of the United
States, applauded Burger King's announcement. Burger King also
consulted with both groups before unveiling its reforms.


Burger King said it would also encourage poultry suppliers to
start using "controlled-atmosphere stunning" or gas as opposed to
electric shocks to render birds unconscious before they are
slaughtered and processed.


Under the program, Burger King will seek to buy two percent of
its eggs from farmers who do not keep birds in wire battery
cages, and to purchase 10 percent of its pork from farms that
allow sows to move around freely instead of confining them.


"Burger King's new plan helps reduce some of the worst factory-
farming and slaughterhouse abuses and will send a shockwave
through the meat and egg industries," predicted Bruce Friedrich,
a PETA vice president.


The move comes as the fast-food behemoth also embarks on a
national rollout of trans fat-free cooking oils.


It also comes amid a national debate about Americans' diets and a
rise in the popularity of organic foods.


Animal rights groups have mounted long-running campaigns
criticizing what they say are cruel, industrial-farming methods
which confine chickens and pigs to crates and cages, severely
restricting their movements.


Activists have also mounted protests, with some success, to ban
sales of foie gras, which is produced by force-feeding of ducks
or geese, in American cities.


Burger King system operates some 11,100 restaurants in the United
States and at least 65 other countries.

