

The European Central Bank on Wednesday said that the introduction
of the euro had led to an increased degree of financial
integration in the single currency area, but that further
integration was needed in areas such as retail banking.


In its first annual report on financial integration in Europe,
the ECB said that financial integration "increases the efficiency
of the financial system and helps to promote its development,
thereby raising the potential for stronger non-inflationary
economic growth" in the region.


And the launch of the euro had provided a "major boost" to areas
such as the corporate bond market where a high degree of
integration had been achieved, the ECB wrote.


"Progress has also been made in the integration of euro area
equity markets, where equity returns are increasingly determined
by specific factors that are common to euro area countries," the
report stated.


"However, in other areas more need to be done to further
financial integration," the ECB continued.


"The euro area securities infrastructure underpinning both bond
and equity markets is not yet sufficiently integrated," it said.


And turning to the banking sector, "while interbank (or wholesale
banking) and capital market-related activities show signs of
increasing integration, retail banking markets continue to be
less integrated," the ECB said.


"The low level of retail banking integration is associated with a
relatively high level of fragmentation in retail payment
infrastructures," the report said.


"Unlike large-value payments, procedures, instruments and
services offered to customers in the field of retail payments
have not yet been harmonised." it said.


"The situation in the retail payment infrastructures today does
not differ substantially from the time before EMU (European
Monetary Union). The current retail payment systems are still
tailored to the individual circumstances of the respective
national markets."


In Brussels on Tuesday, EU finance ministers unanimously backed
plans to create a single European retail payments market to drive
down costs to consumers through tougher competition.


Thanks to an industry initiative, know as the Single Euro Payment
Area (SEPA), individuals and companies will be able to make
payments across national borders by credit or debit card or
electronic transfer just as cheaply as within single states.


SEPA will begin to come into operation next year and is set to be
fully established by 2010.

