

The Czech government said on Wednesday it will begin negotiations
with Washington over hosting part of a controversial US missile
shield in a move likely to boost growing opposition at home.


The announcement, made by Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek, is the
first official confirmation of the move which has been widely
trailed by the prime minister and other members of his government
in recent weeks.


It was welcomed by the US embassy in Prague but opposition to the
US plans have been growing in the republic since late last year
when it became clear that the United States was serious about the
proposal.


Washington wants to build a radar system in the Czech Republic
and put missiles in neighbouring Poland to defend against what it
says are potential attacks from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Topolanek said Prague "recognises the risks for which the anti-
missile base should be built," but added that he "would strive
for the anti-missile defence system to be integrated in the
future defence framework of the North Atlantic Alliance."


That pledge goes some way to meeting the demands of his junior
coalition partner, the Green Party, that the US defense system be
incorporated in future NATO and EU defence plans.


But it is a different message from Poland where the government
has insisted the base is a purely bilateral issue between Warsaw
and Washington.


However, it does echo remarks of the NATO Secretary General Jaap
de Hoop Scheffer who said on Monday that the shield should be
brought within the ambit of the alliance.


Austria and NATO members France, Germany, Slovakia and Spain have
all  expressed reservations about the project which the Americans
want operational by 2011.


The US plan has provoked a furious reaction from Moscow, which
sees the shield proposal as a threat to its national security.
Russian President Vladimir Putin was on the phone to his US
counterpart George Bush on Wednesday to stress this message.


Senior US military figures have been touring Europe in recent
weeks trying to convince opponents and the Russians in particular
that the missile shield is not aimed at Moscow.


But it is at home that Topolanek, who has staunchly backed the
shield, faces the most opposition. According to a recent poll by
the official agency, CVVM, 61 percent of Czechs are against it.


Opponents have accused the prime minister of "excessive
servility" to the United States and say it undermines national
sovereignty. They also worry that it would make the Czech
republic a target. A rash of campaigning groups have also grown
up to protest the move.


This includes 71 out of a total of 72 voters in a village close
to where the radar station would be sited who all voted no to the
plan in a symbolic local referendum earlier this month.


However, it is the Communist Party, still openly nostalgic for
the Soviet era, which has emerged as the chief opponent to the
base. It is calling for a national referendum on the question, a
move backed by the main left wing opposition party, the Social
Democrats of former premier Jiri Paroubek.


Topolanek has strongly rejected this idea.


Nevertheless, a broad-based "No to the Bases" movement has
emerged which is organsing regular demonstrations against the
radar station.


It is supported by around 50 small organisations, including an
Islamic foundation in Prague and the anti-nuclear "South Bohemian
Mothers."


By contrast the "yes" camp which besides Toplanek, includes the
father of the Velvet Revolution, Vaclav Havel and current
president Vaclav Klaus among its numbers has been overshadowed
and outnumbered.

