

Valencia defender David Navarro suffered the full force of a
clampdown on soccer violence on Wednesday after UEFA maintained
tough sanctions against his side and Inter Milan for a mass brawl
in their Champions League tie earlier this month.


After an appeal by both clubs, the European governing body
modified some of the suspensions on six players but imposed
additional probationary periods that put most of them on watch
for two years, UEFA spokesman Ron Faulkner said.


Navarro, who broke the nose of Inter's Nicolas Burdisso in the
punch-up on March 6, will be out of the game for six months.


He also faces a further two-month suspended ban for a
probationary period of two years once he returns, UEFA's appeals
committee ruled.


UEFA's disciplinary body had originally imposed a blanket seven-
month ban from European club competition on Navarro two weeks
ago.


World governing body FIFA will extend Navarro's ban alone to
cover national and international matches as well, UEFA said in a
statement Wednesday.


UEFA's new president Michel Platini has called for "zero
tolerance" on football violence in recent days and those warnings
have been echoed by FIFA chief Sepp Blatter.


Burdisso's original six-match ban from UEFA club competition was
turned into six plus a two-match ban suspended for two years.


Sanctions on three other players were modified by the appeals
body in a similar manner while a firm two match ban on Inter's
Julio Cruz was unchanged.


Burdisso's teammate Maicon's six match suspension was turned into
a firm three match ban plus three suspended, and Inter's Ivan
Cordoba will serve out a firm two match ban plus a suspended one
match penalty.


Valencia's Carlos Marchena faces a two match ban plus two matches
suspended during the probationary period, instead of his original
blanket four match ban.


The players also signed a statement admitting their role in the
fighting and apologising.


"We admit the facts and the offences established by the UEFA
disciplinary bodies. In addition, we agree to the sanctions
imposed here above," the players said.


"We deeply regret the serious nature of the incidents and we
present our most sincere apologies," they added.


Fines on both clubs of 250,000 Swiss francs (155,772 euros,
207,223 dollars) were maintained.

