

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said Wednesday he feared that
terrorist groups may strike in the run-up to power-sharing being
restored in Northern Ireland.


Ahern vowed to step up surveillance of dissident republican
groups opposed to the peace process and the new accord that will
see Catholic republicans Sinn Fein share power with unionist
Protestants in a historic deal from May 8 over the Irish border.


Ahern told parliament that there were dissident republican
factions "small in number but dedicated in their unhelpful
mission" that are "still about."


"There have been some reports of activities and these are all
from the usual sources," he told lawmakers. "They take up quite a
large amount of effort and resources.


"They are still there. There is always the worry that they can
strike and create problems," Ahern said.


"Always when you are making progress is when you worry most about
these elements. There will be, up to May 8, a heightened watch on
these groups."


He said he had "no particular information" about reports that one
group had imported arms last week.


In the run-up to the January 28 Sinn Fein conference which
decided the socialist party should back Northern Ireland's
police, security was beefed up around the main party leaders amid
fears there could be an assassination attempt by dissidents or
disaffected Irish Republican Army members.


Sinn Fein is the political wing of the IRA, which renounced
paramilitarism in 2005.


However, splinter groups remain committed to achieving Northern
Ireland's departure from the United Kingdom and union with the
Republic of Ireland through violence.


The paramilitary groups "watchdog" in Northern Ireland, the
Independent Monitoring Commission, has repeatedly warned about
the danger from dissident groups.


The IMC concluded that Continuity IRA was "still committed to
terrorism and that it remained an active and dangerous threat
although not a widespread one".


The CIRA has never called a ceasefire and is opposed to any deal
not based on a unified Ireland and an end to British sovereignty
in Northern Ireland.


The IMC said the Real IRA "remains active and dangerous and seeks
to sustain itself as a terrorist organisation."


The RIRA claimed responsibility for the worst single atrocity in
Northern Ireland in Omagh on August 15, 1998, when a no-warning
bomb killed 29 people.

