

Two US aircraft carrier battle groups exercised in the Gulf for a
second day Wednesday in a US show of force amid spiking tensions
over Iran's seizure of 15 British marines and sailors, US
military officials said.


The White House and the Pentagon played down the crisis, even as
Prime Minister Tony Blair froze official contacts with Iran and
vowed to "ratchet up" pressure on Tehran.


The decision to hold large scale exercises in the Gulf followed
Friday's seizure of the British marines and sailors by units of
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard navy in the northern Gulf, a US
navy official said.


"The decision to do it at this time and at this location was made
after that," said the official who spoke on condition of
anonymity.


The Iranians, for their part, denied US forces had held maneuvers
in the Gulf. A top Revolutionary Guard commander, identified as
only Admiral Tangsiri, said the exercise was only a
"psychological operation."


Iran also said it would release the only woman among the British
captives.


The Pentagon has insisted the exercises are unrelated to the
British-Iranian showdown, and merely intended to reassure US
friends and allies of its commitment to the region.


Fifteen warships from battle groups led by the aircraft carriers
USS John S. Stennis and the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower are taking
part in the two day exercise, a navy spokesman said.


The Stennis entered the Gulf early Monday, joining the USS
Eisenhower and raising the US naval presence there to its highest
level since the US invasion of Iraq in March 2003.


The Stennis arrived in the area about a month ago, but had been
in the Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea conducting operations in
support of NATO forces in Afghanistan.


The shift in military posture comes amid rising tensions on a
range of fronts between Iran and the United States.


The UN Security Council on Saturday imposed sanctions on Iran for
refusing to suspend its uranium enrichment program, prompting
Tehran to slap limits on cooperation with the International
Atomic Energy Agency.


US forces in Iraq, meanwhile, are holding five Iranians accused
of supplying weapons to Shiite Iraqi militias, raising the
possibility that Iran seized the Britons in retaliation.


Despite the tensions, or perhaps because of them, the outgoing US
Ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad held a brief exchange with an
Iranian official on the sidelines of regional security talks in
Baghdad on March 10.


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates, in what the Pentagon billed as
a major address on Tuesday, said the United States was open to
higher level exchanges with Iran but urged realism in dealing
with Tehran.


A Pentagon spokesman would not elaborate on Gates remarks or why
he chose to raise the prospect of contacts with Iran at the
height of the standoff over the marines.


"Secretary Gates comments were not tied to the incident with the
British sailors," said Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman. "You can
try to connect those all you want. I'm telling you don't."


The Pentagon has said it is not looking for a confrontation with
Iran and the exercises in the Gulf are not in response to the
seizure of the marines.


"The reason that we have not said a whole lot about it, is the
British government is handling that with respect to their
sailors," Whitman said. "We're supportive of their efforts, and
our position all along is they should immediately be returned."


The White House Wednesday denied it was ratcheting up tension
with Iran.


"These military exercises were long planned and so there is no
escalation of tension on our part," spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


"Now, we do stand with our British allies and stand behind Tony
Blair as he works to get these 15 soldiers back from the
Iranians," she said.

