

Britain's decision Wednesday to freeze all official contact with
Iran to force it to free 15 naval personnel will undermine trade
and investment between the two countries, experts said.


"Since most businesses in Iran are controlled by the state, there
is likely to be some impact, but the extent remains to be seen,"
Middle East analyst Anoushka Marashlian told AFP.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett announced a freeze between the
British and Iranian governments except for contacts to resolve
the standoff that began Friday with Iran's seizure of 15 sailors
and marines in the Gulf.


It includes barring inward and outward travel and suspending
visas to Iranian officials, a Foreign Office spokesman said. The
British government would also suspend support for other events,
including trade missions to Iran.


Marashlian, who works for the economics consultancy Global
Insight, said she understood the freeze would still provide some
"leeway" for business dealings, perhaps by allowing a government
official who is also a businessman to visit Britain in a private
capacity.


The freeze will "immediately affect any UK state government
supported trade and investment to the country," Marashlian said
in a follow-up e-mail to AFP.


For example, the Export Credit Guarantee Department, Britain's
official Export Credit Agency, "will find it difficult to
underwrite UK trade and UK finance risks to Iran," she added.


This could affect Rolls Royce engines for Airbus aircraft as well
as transport manufacturers and other exporters, such as in the
pharmaceutical sector, she said.


Fellow Global Insight expert Jan Randolph said the impact will be
limited.


"In reality, the UK is only a small player in trade and
investment with Iran, even within the (EU) European Union,"
Randolph told AFP.


Germany is by far the leading EU exporter to Iran, followed by
France -- which has oil interests under Total -- and Italy, he
said in an e-mail statement. "And we don't need Iranian oil," he
added.


Britain's Office for National Statistics said that in 2005,
Britain exported 452 million pounds (665 million euros, 889
million dollars) of goods to Iran, and imported 33 million pounds
(48 million euros, 65 million dollars).


In terms of services, Britain exported 219 million pounds (322
million euros, 430 million dollars) to Iran and imported 44
million pounds (65 million euros, 86 million dollars) worth.

