

Ukrainian police are hunting two suspects in the murder of a
Russian criminal, shot in the heart by a sniper from 300 metres
(985 feet) away as he left a Kiev court, the interior ministry
said Wednesday.


Maksim Kurochkin, known as "Mad Max", was shot Tuesday as he was
getting into a police van in the inner courtyard of the court
building. He had only just been convicted of extortion.


A police officer who was escorting the prisoner was wounded by
the same bullet but was said to be out of danger.


"This crime was meticulously prepared for a long time," Ukraine's
Deputy Interior Minister Mykola Kupyanski said during a press
conference.


The weapon used had been a relatively rare, foreign-made rifle,
and the fatal shot had been fired from the attic of a
neighbouring building, he added.


Witnesses had seen two men wearing hoods and black jackets flee
the scene in a Mazda, said Kuyanski. It was later found abandoned
in Kiev city centre.


Police were investigating whether the crime was linked to
Kurochkin's business dealings in Ukraine or with Russian criminal
groups, said Kupyanski


He connected the murders to a series of killings of Russians in
Ukraine, the shooting of three Russians in a car near Kiev and
the killing of a director of the main market in the eastern town
of Dnipropetrovsk.


Kurochkin and a Ukrainian finance group had been trying to gain
control of the market.


No political motives were being investigated, Kuyanski said.


But a senior official in Prime Minister Victor Yanukovich's pro-
Russian Regions Party said the political nature of the killing
was "uncontestable".


"Korochkin's murder is one part of the plan aimed at dissolving
parliament," said Vassyl Kisselyov, who is also a deputy for his
party.


"It is a political murder whose aim was to set Ukraine and Russia
against each other, because Korochkin was Russian," he added, the
Interfax news agency reported.


Yanukovich was more circumspect and described the killing as
"very unpleasant", Interfax reported.


"We are going to do everything to find the killers," he added.


It is not the first time Kurochkin has been targetted by
assassins. In November 2004, a car bomb in the centre of Kiev
severely injured his bodyguards, but he escaped unscathed.


Ukranian police believe Kurochkin, who was in his 40s, was a
senior figure in Russian organised crime. The country's
prosecutors had been investigating him on three separate charges
since March 2005.


As well as the extortion case, he was being investigated for
obtaining favours from the previous Ukrainian government that
gave him control over land and several sanatoriums in the
southern region of Crimea.


And last year, he admitted funding the electoral campaign of an
extreme left, pro-Russian political party in violation of
Ukrainian law.


Kurochkin, who had been in a Ukrainian jail since November 2006,
appeared to know that he was still a target.


Shortly before his death, Kurochkin had asked the judge to
release him and place him under house arrest, saying his life was
in danger, Kanal 5 reported Tuesday.


"I don't want to die, I ask you to let me go," he told the judge.


His plea was rejected and according to the TV channel, his last
words to the court were: "I've done my work, I don't regret
coming to the Ukraine."


Kanal 5 said Kurochkin had moved to the Ukraine in 2001. His
holdings here included a five-star hotel, said press reports.

