

Relatives of a suspect in the 2002 bombing attacks in Kenya who
is currently being held at the US Guantanamo Bay detention centre
called for him to be returned to Kenya for trial on Wednesday.


Abdul Malik's sister said her family found out about his transfer
to the US military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, after the
Pentagon made the announcement on Monday.


"We as a family are so saddened by his transfer to Cuba without
him being tried here in Kenya. We as a family ask that he should
be returned to the country and tried under our own laws if he has
committed any mistake," said his sister Myriam Mohamed Ali.


Speaking at a press conference alongside with other family
members at Nairobi's Jamia mosque she said her family had last
seen her elder brother briefly on February 24 at a police station
on the outskirts of Nairobi.


He had been working as a teacher in a Koranic school in Mombasa,
she said.


Malik's lawyer, Harun Ndubi, echoed her appeal stating: "We
demand that Mr Malik be returned to the country at the cost of
the US and Kenyan governments".


He also criticised the way in which Malik was deported from
Kenya.


"Since January 2007 the governments of Kenya, Ethiopia and the
United States and the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia
have engaged in systematic and sustained renditions of persons
arrested in Kenya," he said.


"This is done notwithstanding that the suspects are moved without
any process of law, access to lawyers or contact with family."


The US has come in for international criticism of its so-called
extraordinary rendition of terror suspects who have been picked
up and whisked out of several countries without due legal
process.


Malik joins 14 top terror suspects who were transferred to
Guantanamo in September from secret CIA detention facilities
overseas.


However, US ambassador to Kenya, Michael Ranneberger, defended
the deportation of Malik.


"The gentleman is a dangerous terrorist who has been involved in
terrorist attacks in Kenya and other parts of the world,"
Ranneberger said.


"We (the United States and Kenya) are countries that share mutual
interests in fighting terrorism," he added.


The Pentagon said on Monday that Malik was picked up in East
Africa and came into US custody this year before being
transferred to Guantanamo, without providing further details.


A Pentagon spokesman said Malik had admitted taking part in the
2002 Paradise Hotel bombing in Mombasa, that killed 13, as well
as an attempt to bring down an Israeli airliner in the city.

