

Faye Turney, the female British sailor who Iran said Wednesday it
will release shortly, says she always understood the risks she
was taking when she joined the armed services.


The 26-year-old, who has a three-year-old daughter Molly waiting
at home, gave a series of interviews to British media in the days
before she and 14 other sailors and marines were seized in the
Gulf last Friday.


"My parents made sure I was under no illusions that I could, and
can, go to war at any time," Turney said in comments broadcast by
the BBC.


"Sometimes it can be like a cruise being in the Navy but
sometimes you may be called upon," she said. "And if you are then
you just have to get on with it, That's what you're paid for."


Turney, whose husband Adam - also in the navy -- is looking after
their daughter at home in Plymouth, southern England, was the
only woman among the 15 seized at gunpoint by Iranian
Revolutionary Guards last Friday.


She has quickly become the human face of the stand-off, with
pictures of the smiling blonde covering the front pages of
Britain's newspapers.


An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman told AFP Wednesday she
would be released "within a day or two," giving no explanation
why her colleagues were remaining in detention.


In her media interviews, Turney said she had never expected or
demanded special attention for being a woman.


"I've coped and completed the job just as well as man would have
done it," she was cited by the Daily Telegraph as saying.


She told the Independent newspaper that she was in the navy to
provide for her daughter.


"I know by doing this job I can give (my daughter) everything she
wants in life and hopefully by seeing me doing what I do, she'll
grow up knowing that a woman can have a family and have a career
at the same time," she said.


"She's bubbly, very headstrong, very girly, an absolute gem, a
real diamond, a treasure. She's getting more of a character each
day.


"It's a shame I'm missing that but she's a top girl and will grow
up to be a very reliable, independent, strong young woman, which
is exactly what I want for her.


"I really do love my job but I love my daughter also. If I didn't
love my job I wouldn't be able to do it but if I had to make a
choice my daughter would win every time -- without a shadow of a
doubt, no question about it."


The young mother said morale had been high on her ship, HMS
Cornwall, since it arrived at the northern tip of the Gulf weeks
earlier to protect Iraqi oil terminals.


She said: "The atmosphere on the boat is really good. We were
made aware that some things can be really dodgy. (But) we've not
really had anything that bad at the moment -- that's always a
good sign."


Britain on Wednesday froze all contacts with Iran as the dispute
over the detained sailors intensified with Prime Minister Tony
Blair vowing to ratchet up the pressure on Tehran.


London produced evidence which it said proved that the sailors
and marines were in Iraqi waters, while Iran insists the Britons
were in its waters.

