

A French prosecutor Wednesday demanded a 10-year jail term
against a Saudi prince standing trial in absentia on charges of
using his diplomatic immunity to smuggle cocaine into France.


Prince Nayef Bin Fawaz Al-Shaalan is one of 10 people facing
charges relating to a two-tonne shipment that allegedly arrived
on his private Boeing 727 at a Paris airport eight years ago.


Prosecutor Helene Langlois also requested a definitive ban from
French territory for the prince and 10 years in jail for his nine
co-defendants. The verdict is due at a later date.


None of the accused, who include three Colombian drug-traffickers
already convicted in the affair in the United States, were
present in the courtroom in the Paris suburb of Bobigny.


Prince Nayef, a grandson of Saudi Arabia's founding monarch
Abdulaziz, was represented in court by his twin brother and the
lawyer Jacques Verges, who specialises in high-profile briefs.


The prince is alleged to have made contacts with Colombia's
Medellin cartel via a woman whom he met while studying at the
University of Miami in the 1980s.


According to the prosecution, he arranged in May 1999 for the
cocaine to be packed in briefcases and flown with him to Le
Bourget airport outside Paris where it was picked up by aides. As
he had diplomatic status, customs officers did not inspect the
baggage.


A few days later French police acting on a tip-off found a large
quantity of cocaine at a house in the Paris suburb of Noisy-le-
Sec and began their investigation.


In 2005, a Miami court handed down several convictions in the
affair, using evidence supplied by the three Columbians who had
entered a plea-bargain with the prosecution. The same evidence
forms the basis of the French case.


French judge Francoise Bouthier-Vergez told the court that the
testimony of one of the Colombians, Gustavo Guarin Gonfrier,
alleged to have delivered the cocaine to the prince's aides, had
been corroborated by material evidence.


But defence lawyer Verges told reporters that his client was the
victim of a conspiracy hatched by the United States, claiming
that US authorities had no hard proof that cocaine was
transported on board the prince's plane.


Media reports say the affair is being watched closely by French
diplomats, who fear it could have repercussions on relations with
Saudi Arabia.

