

Ireland have been given some timely advice on spin ahead of their
World Cup Super Eights clash against England from West Indies
legend Lance Gibbs.


Ireland's top spinner Kyle McCallan said he was overjoyed to meet
72-year-old Gibbs who was the first spinner to reach 300 Test
wickets.


"It's always nice to meet one of the legends of the game, and
interesting to see the state of his spinning finger," said
McCallan.


"The way he grips the ball is completely alien to the way I grip
it. He talked about gripping it hard, spinning it hard. I try to
give it a rip but not the way he did.


"But it was a privilege to meet him, he still looks well and is a
fit looking man."


Meanwhile, McCallan admits he is getting his motivation for the
next stage of the World Cup from the internet.


"I am reading so many comments at the moment, saying Ireland
shouldn't be in the Super Eights. No matter what you do, people
are trying to knock you down. They are saying we have qualified
on the basis of one performance," he told www.cricketeurope4.net.


"Hasn't everyone? England lost to New Zealand. They are only in
the Super Eights because they beat Kenya.


"They're all motivating factors for us to go out and perform
another upset."


Ireland, who shocked Pakistan in the first round, meet England in
their first Super Eights clash here on Friday.


It will be the second match between Ireland and England in nine
months with England winning in Belfast by 38 runs in June last
year.


"We were disappointed at how we bowled against England in
Belfast," said McCallan.


"They haven't got Marcus Trescothick, who got a big hundred
against us, albeit they now have Kevin Pietersen and Andrew
Flintoff, but we didn't disgrace ourselves in that match and
we'll take that experience into Friday's game.


"They've lost Harmison from that attack and while we cannot be
overly-confident going into the game, we can realistically
compete with them. Having heard what we've heard about the pitch
here, apparently it suits the slower bowlers so I hope that they
will play the pace bowlers. It will come on to the bat and make
for faster scoring."


"The guys have coped with the quicker bowling rather well and if
we can hit the ball down the ground in the middle overs, we
should get more runs. The batters know what they have to do."

