

Global steel giant Arcelor Mittal said Wednesday it aimed to
pursue its rapid growth by focusing on emerging markets like
China and India rather than more mega mergers.


"Arcelor Mittal has been the catalyst of the consolidation in the
steel industry and will continue to pursue growth opportunities,"
chief executive Lakshmi Mittal told journalists in Brussels.


With annual steel production of 115 million tonnes, the company
currently dwarfs its next biggest rival Nippon steel, but it is
nevertheless aiming to lift its output to 150-200 million tonnes
by 2015.


The company has unleashed a wave of consolidation in the sector
since Mittal Steel bought Arcelor last year with the latest
ripple coming from Indian group Tata's purchase of British-Dutch
group Corus.


After swallowing up Arcelor, the company is pushing ahead with
its expansion through takeovers of Mexican group Sicartsa and US
group Noble while also making plans to open new plants and iron
mines around the world.


However, Mittal was dismissive about launching new big takeovers
on Wednesday, saying the company had no designs on French steel
tubes maker Vallourec "at this time" or an interest in South
Korean steel maker POSCO, the world's third largest.


He also denied holding talks with French financier Francois
Pinault amid recent press reports that the two were considering
jointly building up a stake in French infrastructure and
construction group Vinci.


Instead of seeking big new tie-up partners, the steel giant would
focus on fast growing emerging markets where steel demand is
strong.


"We are focusing on growth in China ... and on India," chief
financial officer Aditya Mittal said.


He said there were high hopes for India, the country where his
father Lakshmi Mittal was born. "We expect steel consumption in
India to triple in the next five to six years," he said.


The company aims to build a giant steel mill in the east of the
company capable of producing 12 million tonnes a year and aims to
buy iron exporter Sesa Goa.


Globally, "greenfield projects must be in low cost countries,"
said Lakshmi Mittal said.


In China, which accounts for a third of global steel production
and consumption, Arcelor Mittal is "optimistic" about the future
possibility of a foreign company taking control of a local
producer, Mittal said.


Arcelor Mittal already owns a stake of about 32 percent in
Chinese steel maker Hunan Valin and has been waiting since 2005
for Chinese authorities to approve its plan to take a stake of
38.41 percent in Laiwu Steel Corp.


The decision is expected "in a couple of months," Mittal said.


Meanwhile, the group is also planning to open iron mines in
Liberia and Senegal and is investing in raising its Brazilian
production capacity.

