

Oscar de la Hoya will have some help from Shane Mosley, who
inflicted two of his four career defeats, in his bid to "humble"
unbeaten Floyd Mayweather Jnr in their May 5 boxing showdown.


The "Golden Boy" said Wednesday that Mosley will join him in
Puerto Rico on Monday for a month of work as sparring partners
ahead of de la Hoya's World Boxing Council light heavyweight
title defense against Mayweather.


"We've always been friends since we were kids. We always got
along great," de la Hoya said. "He will be here for a whole month
which is great. I'm sure my sparring with him is going to help
both of us."


Mayweather, 37-0 with 24 knockouts, has been a champion in four
weight classes while de la Hoya, 38-4 with 30 knockouts, has
owned crowns in six divisions.


Mosley took de la Hoya's WBC and World Boxing Association light
middleweight titles with a unanimous decision victory in 2003,
three years after Mosley won a split decision over de la Hoya for
the WBC welterweight crown.


Mayweather has ripped de la Hoya at every opportunity and took
another chance Wednesday in a teleconference where both men
boasted of tremendous conditioning from their pre-fight workouts.


"He ain't real. Oscar de la Hoya is a fake-ass fighter,"
Mayweather said. "He says I don't deserve to be in the sport of
boxing. He's greedy. He's ungrateful and he's a brat."


De la Hoya had similar words for Mayweather.


"I truly feel Mayweather Jnr needs a humbling experience," de la
Hoya said.


"He really is a little brat. He's very arrogant. He talks all
this trash about how I'm nothing and haven't fought anybody. It's
not necessary.


"It's disrespectful and it really revs me up to shut him up on
May 5."


De la Hoya was trained for years by Mayweather's father, Floyd
Snr, who has been estranged from his son for years.


But father and son have reunited and are together at Mayweather's
camp while Roger Mayweather, Floyd Jnr's uncle, serves as
trainer.


De la Hoya has turned to veteran trainer Freddie Roach to handle
preparing him for the fight and says he is not concerned that
Mayweather Snr. will spill secrets to his son about the strengths
and weaknesses de la Hoya offers.


"I don't think it's going to make a difference," de la Hoya said.
"I know Mayweather snr is telling him to look out for this and
Oscar will be good here. We're ready for that. We're sticking to
our game plan. We're going to do what we do best.


"After watching his videos for several weeks, we have him down.
It's not going to be a fight where I have to change my
strategies. It's going to be a fight where I have to make little
adjustments to take full advantage."

