

Iran said on Wednesday it will release "within a day or two" a
British servicewoman it says was "definitely" arrested in Iran's
territorial waters along with 14 male colleagues.


"The woman will be released within a day or two," foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told AFP.


The official IRNA news agency said: "The first stage of technical
investigations into the location of the British forces' arrest
has ended and it shows the forces were definitely arrested in
Iran's territorial waters.


"Some of the detained British forces have admitted they were in
Iranian territorial waters at the time of the arrest and
expressed regret," it quoted a foreign ministry official it did
not identify as saying.


The crisis prompted British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett to
announce a freeze to all dealings with Iran apart from contacts
to resolve the standoff that began on Friday with Iran's seizure
of the 15 naval personnel in the Gulf.


Iran played down Britain's decision. "Ties between Tehran and
London are already cold and inactive, and Margaret Beckett's
comments contain nothing new," IRNA quoted a foreign ministry
source as saying.


British ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, met Iranian foreign
ministry officials again over the fate of the 15, but "he was
offered no new explanations," a British diplomat told AFP.


Iran drew fresh condemnation from Britain later Tuesday by
parading some of the captive service personnel on state
television.


The sole woman among them, Faye Turney, was shown admitting that
she and her comrades had strayed into Iranian waters but the
circumstances of the recording of the footage were unclear.


Beckett swiftly suggested that the broadcast comments might have
been the fruit of "coercion".


Britain insists the 15 were on a "routine" anti-smuggling
operation inside Iraqi waters when they were seized at gunpoint
in the northern Gulf.


Tehran, which is already at odds with the West over its
controversial nuclear programme, says they entered Iranian
territorial waters illegally.


A group of Islamist students demonstrated in Iran's southwestern
oil of province of Khuzestan, which borders Iraq to demand that
the 15 be prosecuted.


They also set fire to an effigy of British Prime Minister Tony
Blair, who has warned Iran of "total isolation" if it does not
release the sailors, the student ISNA news agency reported.


A prominent Iranian MP had earlier called for an apology from
Britain if it is proved that its sailors had mistakenly entered
Iranian waters.


"If it is proven that a mistake has been made the issue will be
resolved with an apology from the British government," the semi-
official Fars news agency quoted deputy parliament speaker
Mohammad Reza Bahonar as saying.


Bahonar described the alleged entry into Iranian waters as an
"obvious aggression" and said: "If it is proven to be
intentional, the British government should explain its aim and
clarify how it is going to compensate."

