

Britain condemned Iran for airing video footage of captured
British naval personnel Wednesday, voicing concern about possible
coercion as it ratcheted up the pressure for their release.


"I am very concerned about these pictures and any indication of
pressure on or coercion of our personnel," said Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett.


Iranian state television broadcast footage of 15 British sailors
and marines captured last week in which Faye Turney, the sole
woman in the group, was shown saying: "Obviously we trespassed in
the waters."


The footage was aired after Britain's Ministry of Defence (MoD)
produced evidence it said proved that its sailors and marines
held by Iran were "ambushed" in Iraqi waters.


"As we have made clear repeatedly to the Iranian government, such
use of these images is totally unacceptable," Beckett said.


Defence Secretary Des Browne told BBC television: "My whole focus
is the immediate release of our people and the support that their
families need at this very difficult time for them."


Asked if it was reassuring to see the 15 safe and well, Browne
replied: "I'll know if people are safe and well when they're back
home with their families where they should be."


British officials say the sailors and marines were carrying out a
routine anti- smuggling operation in line with international law
and under a United Nations resolution in support of the Iraqi
government.


Beckett added: "I am particularly disappointed that a private
letter has been used in a way which can only add to the distress
of the families."


This was a reference to a letter released by the Iranian
authorities, purportedly written by 26-year-old Turney, in which
she said she had apologised to the Iranians for trespassing into
Iranian waters.


The hand-written letter, also shown on Iranian television, was
addressed to her mother and father.


"We have comprehensively demonstrated today that our personnel
were operating inside Iraqi territorial waters," said Beckett.


Military chiefs at the MoD used maps and GPS coordinates to argue
that the naval personnel were clearly within Iraqi territorial
waters at the northern end of the Gulf when they were seized last
Friday.


The sailors were 1.7 nautical miles (3.15 kilometres) inside
Iraqi territorial waters, Vice-Admiral Charles Style, deputy
chief of the defence staff, told reporters.


The MoD said it disputed two sets of coordinates provided by
Tehran, one inside Iraqi waters and one inside Iranian waters.


"It is is hard to understand a legitimate reason for this change
of coordinates," Style said. "In any case we unambiguously
contest both the positions provided by the Iranians."


The MoD announcement marked a decisive switch from private to
public diplomacy.


Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed Wednesday to intensify pressure
on Iran over its seizure of the naval personnel, saying Tehran
faced "total isolation" in the increasingly tense stand-off.


"It is now time to ratchet up the diplomatic and international
pressure" on Tehran, Blair told parliament, adding that "there
was no justification whatever" for the detention of the Britons
in the Gulf.

