

People dying of cancer are turning to the Internet in a frantic
attempt to buy under-the-counter versions of an untested,
unlicensed tumour-shrinking chemical, science journals reported
Wednesday.


Researchers are worried, fearing that patients who take the
substance could suffer damaging side-effects, while the patients
themselves say they have nothing to lose as they cannot wait for
the outcome of clinical trials.


The chemical is called DCA, or dichloracetic acid. It is a cheap,
simple and unpatented chemical that is used in humans for
treatment of rare metabolic disorders.


In January, researchers at the University of Alberta in Canada
published tests of DCA on lab-dish cancer cells and on rats with
human tumours.


The cancers shrank dramatically, apparently by reviving a
previously ignored metabolic pathway that prompts a flawed cell
to commit suicide.


Within weeks of the publication of this research, a substantial
online community developed, where users swap tips on how to get
hold of DCA, how to prepare the chemical for human consumption
and what supplements they should take to minimise side effects.
DCA is corrosive, which means its acidity has to be "buffered"
for human use.


One US website sells "home-made DCA" that is labelled for
veterinary use, as drugs sold for human use in the United States
must have approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
the British journal Nature said.


The website's owner believes he has sold DCA to "a couple of
hundred" people around the world, it reported.


Meanwhile, New Scientist said the Canadian researchers had
received around 15,000 emails inquiring about DCA, and pharmacies
and chemical supply companies are being pressured to sell the
drug to members of the public.


Doctors are also being urged by patients to request special
authorisation from national regulatory agencies so that they can
prescribe the drug.


"At first, (people enquiring) were quite honest," researcher
Evangelos Michelakis told the British science weekly. "But now
we're getting emails from people asking for dosage information
for, say, a 150-pound (70-kilo) golden retriever."


Michelakis and other researchers are deeply concerned by the
scramble, as DCA has not been tested for safety and effectiveness
for cancer.


In clinical trials for other uses, DCA has been known to boost
the risk of nerve damage. In addition, it may inflict kidney
damage and interact with existing anti-cancer drugs in unexpected
ways.


Investigators, while sympathetic to the patients' plight, are
also concerned that any backlash over DCA could wreck interest in
the chemical, choking off funding to push it through clinical
trials, a lengthy and costly process.


Because DCA has been around for years, its structure cannot be
patented and pharmaceutical companies are not interested in
developing the drug. Michelakis is raising money with the hope of
starting his own small-scale clinical trial "within the next few
months," Nature said.

