

Indonesia's weak and corrupt judicial system has severely
undermined efforts to curb deforestation because timber smuggling
masterminds go unpunished, activists said Wednesday.


They issued a report alleging that corruption throughout the
justice system "conspires to ensure the main culprits behind
illegal logging in Indonesia remain at liberty."


A television documentary accompanying the report contained
interviews with traders in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and
China about how Indonesian timber is smuggled.


The testimony revealed one technique was to doctor documents to
show Malaysia as the origin of the timber. A police officer on
Indonesia's Sumatra island also confessed to illegal timber
trading.


"What we are showing is only the tip of the iceberg," said Yayat
Afianto from Indonesian group Telapak, which issued the report
along with the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA).


In 2005 Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono sent 1,500
security personnel to Papua province to clamp down on illegal
logging.


Afianto said the government released a list of 186 wanted
suspects soon after the operation.


But "the Ministry of Forestry complained recently that 26
suspects in major cases were released by the courts," he said,
adding only 13 small operators had been convicted and that none
of the financiers had been reprimanded.


Campaigner Julian Newman from the EIA said many markets in Asia
and the West were addicted to illegal timber.


Industry took "great steps to ensure it gets cheap, illegal
timber from Indonesia and (is) often backed up by politicians,"
he said.


Newman alleged that Singapore offered a "safe haven" for timber
barons identified as major players in Sumatra and Borneo.


The Indonesian government estimates illegal logging has cost the
country around four billion dollars and some 2.8 million hectares
of forest cover per year over the last decade.


Ten countries account for 80 percent of the world's primary
forests, of which Indonesia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Brazil
saw the highest losses in the five years from 2000 to 2005, UN
Food and Agriculture Organisation has said.

