

Women at high risk for breast cancer should undergo MRI scans
because they can help find tumors that are undetectable by
traditional mammograms, a pair of studies said Wednesday.


Magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, scans should accompany a
yearly mammogram for women who have a close relative with breast
cancer or score 20 percent or higher on a lifetime risk survey,
the American Cancer Society said.


"The two tests together give doctors a better chance of finding
breast cancer early in these women, when it is easier to treat
and the chance of survival is greatest," it said in a statement
which announced new screening guidelines.


The guidelines also urge most high-risk women to get mammograms
and MRIs beginning at age 30. Women at average risk should get a
mammogram and physician's breast exam once a year beginning at
age 40, it said.


A second study found that in cases of women who were already
diagnosed with cancer in one breast, MRIs could detect up to 10
times as many incidences of cancer in the second breast as
regular mammograms.


The MRI scans "detected cancer in the opposite breast of 30 of
969 women (3.1 percent) who had recently been diagnosed with
cancer in one breast only," it said, adding that those cancers
"were missed by previous mammography and clinical exam."


"This study is pretty definitive evidence that the opposite
breast needs to be evaluated with MRI," said Dr. Etta Pisano, co-
author of the study which appears in the March 29 issue of the
New England Journal of Medicine.


"If you were to screen the opposite breast with mammography in
the general population, you would expect to find four to seven
cancers per 1,000 patients. This study found three per 100,
nearly 10 times higher," Pisano said.


The research was funded by the National Cancer Institute and was
carried out at 25 sites in the United States and Canada.


However, Pisano warned that the research findings in no way
advocated giving up on mammography altogether.


"MRI screening is a very expensive tool that should be used
judiciously for high risk populations. The last thing we would
want is for every woman to think she should get an MRI."


MRI scans in the United States typically cost between 1,000 and
2,000 dollars and are not always covered by health insurance.

