

Oil prices shot up Wednesday to six-month highs as Britain froze
ties with Iran and rumors swirled about a possible military clash
between the West and the Islamic Republic.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, jumped 1.15 dollars to close at 64.08 dollars a
barrel.


At one point overnight crude had rocketed to 68.09 dollars, the
highest level since September 6 on rumors of a military conflict
in Iran.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery leapt 1.18
dollars to settle at 65.78 dollars a barrel. Overnight, Brent
crude surged as high as 69.00 dollars -- last seen on September
4.


The rumors put a scare into the market even though they were
quickly proved false, said Eric Wittenauer at AG Edwards.


"Rumors began to fly that there was a military confrontation with
Iran," he said.


"One rumor suggested the Brits went in to rescue their Royal
Marines and sailors. Another said a US ship in the Gulf was fired
on by Iranian forces. Quickly the Pentagon, the White House, and
Central Command came out denying there was any military
confrontation.


But the analyst said that "with geopolitical tensions so high,
the market can quickly react to any further escalation ... it
gives us an idea what would happen to prices immediately
following a US preemptive strike, an Iranian launch, or a UK
offensive to retrieve their captured soldiers."


As well as its standoff with Britain over detained sailors, Iran
refuses to bow to international pressure over its disputed
nuclear program.


Britain announced a freeze on all official ties with Iran over
the Islamic state's detention of sailors and marines in the Gulf.


A British servicewoman detained along with 14 other sailors will
be released "within a day or two," Iranian foreign ministry
spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told AFP on Wednesday.


Iranian television later broadcast footage of the 15 captured
last Friday -- a move Britain condemned as "completely
unacceptable."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett announced the freezing
of ties shortly after Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to increase
pressure on Tehran, which he said faced "total isolation."


"We are now in a new phase of diplomatic activity .... We need to
focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on the
resolution of this issue," Beckett said.


Iran insisted Wednesday that the personnel it detained last week
were in Iranian waters, but said it was "confident" London and
Tehran can resolve the standoff.


The statement came minutes after British military officials
unveiled documentary evidence they said showed the Britons were
1.7 nautical miles (3.15 kilometers) inside Iraqi waters when
they were detained.


Aside from Iran, dealers pored over a weekly update on US energy
inventory data. Crude stockpiles fell by 900,000 barrels to 328.4
million in the week to March 23, the Department of Energy said.


That compared with a market forecast of an increase of 2.3
million barrels.

