

US President George W. Bush warned lawmakers Wednesday that he
would veto any timetable for withdrawing US troops from Iraq, a
move he said would have "disastrous" consequences.


"What is clear is that the consequences of imposing such a
specific and random date for withdrawal would be disastrous,"
Bush said as the Senate was poised to vote on the issue.


If the bill became law, "our enemies in Iraq would simply have to
mark their calendars," Bush said. "If we cannot muster the
resolve to defeat this evil in Iraq, America will have lost its
moral purpose in the world."


The Senate could vote as early as Wednesday on a war spending
bill that includes a deadline to withdraw US soldiers from Iraq
by March 31, 2008 after Democrats beat a Republican attempt to
take the timeline out of the legislation.


The upper chamber voted 50-48 Tuesday against a Republican
amendment that would have removed the pullout timetable from the
Iraq and Afghanistan war emergency spending bill.


The House of Representatives adopted on Friday another version of
the spending bill that sets an August 2008 deadline for pulling
troops out of Iraq.


Bush said the budget bills have too much extra spending, "too
many conditions on our commanders, and an artificial timetable
for withdrawal."


"As I have made clear for weeks, if either version comes to my
desk, I will veto it. And it is also clear from the strong
opposition in both houses that my veto would be sustained," Bush
said.


"Some Democrats believe that by delaying funding for our troops,
they can force me to accept restrictions on our commanders that I
believe would make withdrawal and defeat more likely. That's not
going to happen," Bush said.


"If Congress fails to pass a bill to fund our troops on the front
lines, the American people will know who to hold responsible," he
said.


Bush, who was addressing a trade group, has repeatedly vowed to
veto the measure if it crosses his desk.


"The clock is ticking for our troops in the field," Bush said.


"Funding for our forces in Iraq will begin to run out in mid-
April. Members of Congress need to stop making political
statements, start providing vital funds for our troops, and get a
bill to my desk that I can sign into law."


He also urged more time for the new US commander in Iraq General
David Petraeus's security plan for Baghdad, which includes a
surge in the number of soldiers on the ground and increased
checkpoints and patrols, to take effect.


"The plan is still in the beginning stages. I mean, General
Petraeus has been on the ground just for about two months. Only
half of the reinforcements that he needs have arrived," he said.


"And look, I recognize it's going to require a sustained
determined effort to succeed. I know that. And there's some early
signs that are encouraging. General Petraeus' strategy is
beginning to show signs of success," he said.

