

Government troops in the Democratic Republic of Congo have found
a huge quantity of weapons as forces loyal to an opposition
leader began to surrender, the UN said Wednesday.


The weapons find came after fighting between military and
opposition forces loyal to former vice president Jean-Pierre
Bemba last week claimed scores of lives in the capital.


President Joseph Kabila left for Tanzania on Wednesday for a
special summit of the 14-nation Southern African Development
Community, where the crisis in his country was high on the
agenda.


Lieutenant Colonel Didier Rancher, military spokesman for the
United Nations mission in DRC, said the 677 weapons and hundreds
of crates of ammunition had been found in a drinks factory at
Gbadolite, in northwestern Equateur province. Equateur is Bemba's
home province.


The weapons included mortars of up to 120 millimetre calibre,
anti-aircraft guns and other artillery, rocket-launchers,
machineguns and dozens of assault rifles, Rancher said.


He said the arsenal was located near a base of Bemba loyalists,
some 600 of whom had surrendered their weaponry and agreed to
join the government armed forces.


In eastern districts of Kinshasa, government troops continued
their search for the remnants of Bemba's militia, police said,
setting up roadblocks in the Kingabwa quarter.


Meanwhile, diplomatic sources said Bemba, who sought shelter in
the South African embassy during heavy fighting in Kinshasa last
week, could be flown to Portugal for medical treatment. Bemba
needs treatment for a leg injury he sustained when he fell down
stairs in December.


About 2,000 government troops overcame 700 fighters loyal to
Bemba, also a former rebel leader and failed presidential
candidate, during fighting that occurred in the Gombe district of
Kinshasa on Thursday and Friday.


Bemba had rejected attempts to incorporate his guard into the
government army.


On Friday, Kabila's government issued an arrest warrant against
Bemba on charges of treason and maintaining a militia.


In theory Bemba enjoys parliamentary immunity by virtue of his
seat in the senate. That immunity can only be lifted by
parliament.


South Africa's Deputy Foreign Minister Aziz Pahad said Tuesday
that Bemba could stay at the embassy as long as he liked, though
Bemba's supporters have told AFP they would like to see him
safely out of the country, at least for the time being.


Bemba himself told the French daily Le Monde on Monday that he
was prepared to go into exile if his security could not be
guaranteed by Kinshasa.


The UN mission in DRC on Wednesday called for dialogue between
the government and opposition.


It said security should now be maintained by police and not the
military, and disciplinary measures should be taken against
soldiers found to have participated in looting or other crimes.


Many of Bemba's guard members have begun showing up at military
camps in the Equateur region, while 140 reported to UN
headquarters in Kinshasa. About 200 have been arrested and sent
to prison, DRC and UN sources said.


European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana again called on
both sides to reach a peaceful agreement.


On Tuesday, 14 EU ambassadors urged Kabila's government "to do
everything to assure the existence of a democratic space in order
to guarantee the free expression of all political opinions."


In their joint statement, they also condemned the government's
excessive use of force during last week's fighting in which 200
to 500 people, many of them civilians, had been killed.


Catholic charity organisation Caritas said Wednesday its figures
so far showed that 163 people had been killed and 150 seriously
injured.

