

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has invited
Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas and Prime Minister Ismail Haniya
to visit Ankara, a report said Wednesday.


The invitation came at a meeting Wednesday between the three
leaders on the sidelines of an Arab League summit in Riyadh, the
CNN-Turk news channel reported.


The report said Erdogan's invitation was extended to Abbas and
his delegation -- and not directly to Haniya -- in a bid to avoid
triggering a possible angry reaction from Turkey's main regional
ally Israel.


Neither Erdogan's spokesman nor the foreign ministry here could
confirm the report.


Haniya heads the new Palestinian unity government that includes
Hamas, regarded as a terror group by Israel and the West, and the
Fatah movement of president Mahmud Abbas.


Israel has urged the international community to pursue its year-
long boycott of the Palestinian Authority.


Last week, Tel Aviv cancelled a meeting with Norway's deputy
foreign minister Raymand Johansen after he met Haniya.


Israel insists the new Palestinian leadership has failed to meet
the three conditions laid down by the international community
before it will resume aid to the cash-strapped government:
recognising Israel, renouncing violence and abiding by past peace
deals.


Turkey angered Israel when it hosted a delegation led by exiled
Hamas supremo Khaled Meshaal in February 2006, following Hamas'
victory in the Palestinian elections. Ankara defended the move as
an effort to press the militant group to renounce violence.


During a visit to Turkey in May, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi
Livni brushed aside the spat between the two countries as a
"closed issue."


A predominantly Muslim but secular non-Arab nation, Turkey has
been Israel's chief regional ally since 1996, when the two signed
a military cooperation accord, much to the anger of Iran and Arab
countries.


But the Palestinian struggle for statehood is also dear to
Erdogan's Islamist- rooted Justice and Development Party, which
has harshly criticized Israel's heavy-handed policies against the
Palestinians.


Erdogan condemned a deadly Israeli raid on the Rafah refugee camp
in May 2004 as "state terror", and labelled the assassination two
months earlier of Sheikh Ahmed Yassin a "terrorist act."

