

Chinese President Hu Jintao met industry chiefs in Russia's oil-
rich Tatarstan region on Wednesday during a visit aimed at
securing energy supplies and smoothing relations between the
neighbouring countries.


In Kazan, capital of the mainly Muslim province in central
Russia, Hu met heads of heavy industry such as oil producer
Tatneft and visited the Kazan Helicopter Factory together with
Tatarstan's leader Mintimir Shaimiyev.


Hu hailed plans by Chinese car maker Great Wall to begin
production this year at a plant in the province, expected to turn
out 50,000 cars annually for the Russian and European markets.


"Together with the Tatar president... we have looked over this
investment plan and hope that Great Wall will soon start
producing cars in the town of Elabuga" in Tatarstan, Hu was
quoted by ITAR-TASS news agency as saying.


The head of the helicopter factory, Alexander Lavrentyev, voiced
hopes of setting up a joint venture in China and supplying China
with new Mi-17 helicopters, Interfax news agency reported.


The Chinese president began his three-day trip to Russia on
Monday by securing an agreement on increasing deliveries of
Russian oil by rail.


But the Russian press on Wednesday reported unresolved questions
about how the accord would be implemented.


There has also been no firm Russian commitment on a Chinese
request to extend a pipeline currently being built from Siberia
to Russia's east coast, so as to deliver directly to China.


China received a total of 15 million tonnes of Russian oil last
year, including 11 million tonnes transported by rail, and is
keen to secure more.


On Tuesday, Hu and Russian President Vladimir Putin oversaw the
signing of four billion dollars of trade deals as well as an
agreement by the two sides' space agencies on a joint mission to
Mars.


Twenty-one trade contracts were signed, including long-term
export contracts for Russian steel products.


The sides also agreed to launch a joint mission to Mars in 2009
in which a Chinese satellite will take off aboard a Russian
rocket and bring back soil samples, the China National Space
Administration said.


Earlier Hu and Putin talked up the diplomatic ties between their
countries, which have taken closely aligned positions in talks on
North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and the Iranian nuclear
standoff.


In a joint declaration on Monday, the two presidents said the
Iranian issue "should be resolved exclusively in a peaceful way,"
and welcomed the "positive dynamic" in six-party talks aimed at
curbing North Korea's nuclear programme.


But the RBK business daily reported that Russia's number two oil
company Rosneft had failed on Tuesday to sign a planned one-
billion dollar deal with China's Sinopec (China Petroleum
Chemical Corp) on supplying three million tonnes of Russian oil.


The deal, which foresaw Rosneft supplying oil via rail through
Mongolian territory, had faltered due to a tariff dispute between
Rosneft and Russian railways, said RBK, citing a Russian railways
source.


An analyst at Moscow's MDM bank, Peter Westin, said that the
priority for China remained securing energy supplies but that
Russia also benefited from selling China steel and weapons,
although details of the latter are not widely publicized.


Westin said that a commitment on the pipeline project to China
was only likely after the current election season in Russia,
which culminates with a presidential vote next March at which
Putin is due to stand down.


"I expect we'll see very little movement on bilateral issues as
we have elections coming.... In an election year it seems to be
more popular to be protectionist," Westin said.


Hu was due to leave Russia later Wednesday.

