

Opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba, who sought shelter in the
South African embassy during heavy fighting in Kinshasa last
week, could be flown to Portugal for medical treatment,
diplomatic sources said on Wednesday.


Bemba whose militia were routed by the army over two days, needs
treatment to an injury he sustained when he fell down some stairs
last December.


"Monsieur Bemba suffers from his leg injury," the diplomatic
source told AFP, adding that "a medical evacuation is being
envisaged fairly rapidly, to Portugal."


Bemba was in Portugal last year for treatment when he first
suffered injury.


A second diplomatic source confirmed to AFP that talks were
underway between Bemba, the DRC government, the South African and
Portuguese authorities and MONUC, the UN mission in here, to
arrange a possible evacuation.


"The only problem now, is to know when and how," he added.


About 2,000 government troops overcame 700 fighters loyal to
former vice president Jean-Pierre Bemba in the Gombe district of
Kinshasa on Thursday and Friday.


Last Friday, President Joseph Kabila's government issued an
arrest warrant against Bemba on charges of treason and
maintaining a militia.


In theory Bemba, a former rebel leader and vice president, enjoys
parliamentary immunity by virtue of his seat in the senate. That
immunity can only be lifted by parliament.


Nor is he under any pressure to quit his embassy sanctuary. South
Africa's deputy foreign minister Aziz Pahad said Tuesday that
Bemba could stay there as long as he liked.


But in recent days Bemba's supporters have told AFP that they
would like to see him safely out of the country, at least for the
time being.


Bemba himself told the French daily Le Monde on Monday that he
was prepared to go into exile if his security could not be
guaranteed by Kinshasa.


Meanwhile the EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana called on
both sides to reach a peaceful agreement.


A statement issued by his office in Brussels said Solana had
spoken with Kabila on Wednesday and with Bemba a few days
earlier.


"Mr Solana expressed concern at the latest developments in the
DRC, where the parties have resorted to violence to resolve their
differences.


"He called on them to use reason and dialogue to reach a
negotiated outcome, based on consensus, to enable the DRC to
return to the path to stability and prosperity to which the
Congolese people aspire."


Solana is currently in Saudi Arabia attending the Arab League
summit.


President Kabila left for Tanzania on Wednesday, where he will
have to explain his actions to his colleagues at 14-nation
Southern African Development Community (SADC) summit.


The crises in his country and in Zimbabwe are high on their
agenda.


On Tuesday, 14 European Union ambassadors on Tuesday urged
Kabila's government "to do everything to assure the existence of
a democratic space in order to guarantee the free expression of
all political opinions."


In their joint statement, they also condemned the government's
excessive use of force during last week's fighting.


Up to 500 people, many of them civilians, had been killed; both
sides had been guilty of rape and pillage; and the Spanish and
Greek embassies and the UNICEF offices in Kinshasa had been
bombed, they said.


Government troops meanwhile continued their search for the
remnants of Bemba's militia in the easter part of the capital
Wednesday.


A police spokesman told AFP that the police and army had set up
roadblocks in Kinshasa's Kingabwa quarter. He said they were
going through the district looking for weapons abandoned by the
fleeing militia.


Late Tuesday, the defence ministry said another 600 soldiers
formerly loyal to Bemba and based in his home region in northwest
Equateur said they were now ready to join the ranks of the army.

