

Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke said Wednesday a slump in
the US housing market has not spilled over to the broader
economy, but that his forecast remains subject to
"uncertainties."


Bernanke, speaking to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress,
left intact his outlook for "moderate" economic growth while
noting risks from what he said was an unpredictable real estate
market.


He repeated that inflation remains the predominant concern of
Federal Reserve policymakers but said "uncertainties have risen"
and that as a result the Fed is seeking "more flexibility."


The central bank chief acknowledged the possibility of a more
severe downturn in housing, as well as manufacturing, which could
drag the overall economy lower. But for the moment, he said this
has not occurred.


"Thus far, the weakness in housing and manufacturing does not
appear to have spilled over to any significant extent to other
sectors of the economy," Bernanke said.


"Overall, the economy appears likely to continue to expand at a
moderate pace over the coming quarters."


But Bernanke appeared to hedge his outlook, chiefly due to the
weakness in the property market.


He said the slump in housing has been the principal source of the
slowdown and that "the near-term prospects for the housing market
remain uncertain."


"The correction in the housing market could turn out to be more
severe than we currently expect, perhaps exacerbated by problems
in the subprime sector," he said, referring to the growing rate
of failures in mortgages to people with below-average credit
histories, known as subprime loans.


He added that "we could yet see greater spillover from the
weakness in housing to employment and consumer spending than has
occurred thus far."


A selloff on Wall Street accelerated as Bernanke spoke, with
investors apparently disappointed that the Fed gave no hint of a
cut in interest rates after hopes were fueled by the March 21
FOMC statement of an easier monetary policy. At 1545 GMT, the Dow
Jones index fell 0.86 percent.


"Bernanke's comments were a little more hawkish about inflation,"
said Mace Blicksilver, analyst at Marblehead Asset Management.


"So it seems less likely that the Fed is going to lower interest
rates anytime soon."


Al Goldman at AG Edwards agreed: "The market focused on comments
that core inflationary pressures remain unconfortably high."


Bernanke stuck to the statement made by the Federal Open Market
Committee earlier this month that inflation remains high but is
likely to subside.


"Core inflation, which is a better measure of the underlying
inflation trend than overall inflation, seems likely to moderate
gradually over time," he said, referring to core prices excluding
food and energy.


But he also said "the risks to this forecast are to the upside"
because of tight labor markets and an uncertain outlook for
energy prices.


Pressed by lawmakers on whether the Fed had shifted to a
"neutral" monetary policy, Bernanke said this was not the case.


"Neutral policy would be one there is sense that the risks are
weighted equally," he said.


"In our statement, we said that our view was that inflation risk
was still predominant. So our policy is still oriented towards
control of inflation which we consider to be at this time to be
the greater risk. Nevertheless, as I mentioned in my testimony,
the uncertainties have risen. And therefore, a little more
flexibility might be desirable."


Some analysts said the Fed still may be setting the stage for a
rate cut but without sending a direct signal to financial
markets.


"Bernanke's testimony did not remove the ambiguity of the last
FOMC statement indicating that there are risks on both sides, to
growth and inflation," said Nathalie Dezeure, economist at IXIS
Corporate and Investment Bank.


"However, by and large, his testimony is still consistent with
our scenario of a monetary easing by the end of the second
quarter."

