

India's Hindustan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp (HSMC) said on
Wednesday it would invest up to 4.5 billion dollars to build two
chipmaking facilities in a licensing tie-up with leading German
chipmaker Infineon Technologies.


Hindustan Semiconductor will use "leading edge" process
technology under licence from Infineon Technologies AG in its
products, according to a statement by the two companies outlining
their signed memorandum of understanding.


The first plant "will require an investment of approximately one
billion dollars and will produce chips on eight-inch wafers. The
second will be for more advanced 12-inch wafers requiring an
investment of 3.2 to 3.5 billion dollars," the statement said.


The agreement between the two companies will "help build a
foundation for the production of integrated circuits for mobile
phones, identity cards and automotive products in India for the
Indian market," the statement said.


Wednesday's announcement came soon after India announced a
semiconductor policy providing subsidies and tax breaks for
investors setting up chip manufacturing units in India.


India is currently a negligible player in semiconductors and the
policy aims to put the country on the global semiconductor map.


"This move will further strengthen Infineon's position as a
leading player in the Indian semiconductor market where it has
been active for ten years," the statement said.


"By bringing our process technology to the Indian market, we help
build the foundation for the production of integrated circuits
for the Indian market in the years to come," Infineon chief
Wolfgang Ziebart said.


No decision was announced on where to locate the project.


India's IT minister Dayanidhi Maran said domestic demand for the
semiconductors "is projected to reach 36 billion dollars by 2015
riding on the booming electronic goods manufacturing in India."


The rise is thanks to surging demand for consumer electronics,
wireless communications and automotive products in an economy
growing by around nine percent.


The semiconductor market now stands at 3.25 billion dollars.


"Most of the Infineon products have large market potential for
India. This is in line with my vision for the semiconductor
industry," Maran added.


Last year SemIndia, promoted by a consortium of non-resident
Indians, announced a three-billion dollar investment to
manufacture semiconductors in  the southern information
technology hub of Hyderabad.

