

US senators warned Wednesday of new laws that could be adopted
against Asian giants China and Japan for allegedly keeping their
currencies low which they said was hurting the US economy.


Matching their words with action, legislation was introduced in
the Senate Wednesday requiring Washington to work with other
countries to stop the Japanese government from "manipulating" the
yen currency.


In the coming weeks, another measure would be proposed seeking
tough action against China for allegedly undervaluing its yuan
currency, which its sponsors say US President George W. Bush
would not be able to veto if passed.


The China bill will be "well-crafted legislation -- WTO-compliant
and strong and effective -- (and) is likely to pass with a veto-
proof margin during this Congress," its chief proponent,
Democratic Senator Charles Schumer, told a congressional hearing
on China's currency policy Wednesday.


Schumer had led an unprecedented effort in the last Republican-
dominated Congress by introducing a bill aimed at slapping
punitive tariffs on Chinese imports if it did not revalue its
currency.


The bill surprisingly won two-thirds support in the Senate in a
procedural vote but he and other backers of the proposed
legislation did not proceed with full action to give Beijing time
to undertake currency reforms.


"But now the possibility for legislation in the 110th Congress is
real, because the number of people who will vote for strong
legislation exceeds the number of people who would have voted for
a tariff,"  Schumer said.


Senior Republican Senator Chuck Grassley charged that "China has
engaged in large-scale intervention to restrict appreciation of
its currency" and called for an "overhaul" to US laws pertaining
to oversight of global currency exchange rates.


Some lawmakers charge that Beijing has undervalued its currency
by up to 40 percent in order to boost its exports and that this
is a key reason for the snowballing bilateral US trade deficit.


Following pressure from particularly its Western trading
partners, Beijing ended a decade-long peg to the dollar in 2005
in favor of a managed float at that time, revaluing the currency
with reference to a basket of currencies.


Since then, the yuan has appreciated against the greenback by
about 6.6 percent but Schumer said it hardly made a dent to the
exploding US trade deficit with China -- at 232 billion dollars
in 2006.


Another Democratic senator, Debbie Stabenow, introduced
legislation Wednesday to stop the Japanese government from
participating in what she called the unfair trade practice of
manipulating its yen currency.


Under the the Japan Currency Manipulation Act, steps are proposed
to "prove that the Japanese manipulate the yen" and would require
Washington to work with other countries to put a stop to such
practices.


"Unfair trade practices, like currency manipulation, that cost
American jobs cannot be allowed to continue, no matter who the
culprit is," Stabenow said.


It is not known how much support legislators would provide to the
bill on Japan, a key ally of the United States, unlike China
which is seen by many Americans as a military and trade rival.


The undervalued yen is "subsidizing" millions of Japanese auto
exports into the United States, Stabenow said.


According to an industry report, at the current average of 117
yen to the dollar, the Japanese currency's "subsidy" creates a
4,000-dollar cost advantage to a typical four-door sedan, up to a
12,000-dollar cost advantage for luxury vehicles, and thousands
of dollars for Japanese vehicles made in the United States.


Automotive trade accounted for two thirds of the 88-billion-
dollar US trade deficit with Japan last year.


A report by an influential think tank in Washington said this
week that the yen is undervalued by between 25 and 30 percent
against the US dollar.

