

A spate of bombings and shootings killed at least 12 people
across Iraq on Wednesday, one day after 120 people were brutally
slaughtered in a northern town, security officials said.


Two Iraqi policemen were killed in multiple attacks on a local
government building in the former rebel town of Fallujah. Truck
bombs loaded with chlorine gas were used, police said.


US military officer First Lieutenant Shawn Mercer in Fallujah
confirmed the coordinated attacks, and said that two trucks
driven by suicide bombers exploded chlorine gas near the
building.


"The bombers were engaged by the Iraqi police," he said, adding
that the insurgents also used mortars and small arms in the
attack.


The building also houses a joint Iraqi-US civil and military
centre, which usually acts as a window for unemployed Iraqis
searching for jobs.


Insurgents have increasingly used chemical bombs, especially
chlorine gas, against Iraqi security forces and civilians in
recent months in the Sunni Anbar province that has become a
hotbed for Al-Qaeda fundamentalists.


On March 16, two Iraqi policemen were killed and 350 civilians
hospitalised after militants exploded chlorine tankers near
Fallujah.


On Wednesday two people were killed and 20 wounded by a car bomb
in Al-Iman, an area close to the town of Al-Mahawil, 60
kilometres (37 miles) south of Baghdad in the largely Shiite
province of Hilla.


A local police officer said the explosion targeted a market and
that the number of casualties was expected to rise.


Insurgents also unleashed a wave of attacks in the northern oil
city of Kirkuk.


Two policemen were killed and four others wounded in separate
roadside bombings in the city, a police officer said.


Gunmen also killed another policeman and wounded another in
Kirkuk, where police found two corpses of men who had been
tortured and then murdered execution- style.


In the central city of Diwaniyah, a policeman was shot dead and
the body of an Iraqi translator who was kidnapped a few days ago
was found. He used to work with the US forces, and it was not
known when he was killed.


In southern Baghdad's Al-Baya district, a car bomb explosion
killed two and wounded 10, police said, while a former member of
Saddam Hussein's Baath party was also shot dead in the Shiite
shrine city of Karbala.


One civilian was killed and three wounded in a mortar attack in
Mahmudiyah, south of Baghdad, police said.


The latest violence came a day after 120 people were slaughtered
in the northern mixed Shiite-Sunni Iraqi town of Tal Afar.


On Tuesday a suicide truck bomber carrying food supplies blew up
his vehicle in a crowd of hungry Iraqi men and women, believed to
be mostly Shiites, killing 75 people and wounding another 190.


A few hours later 45 men from the town's Sunni district of Al-
Wahada were shot dead in apparent revenge for the devastating
bomb attack.

