

President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday spelt out Russia's concerns
to US President George W. Bush over US plans for a missile
defence shield in Europe and any imposed solution of Kosovo's
future.


In what the Kremlin described as a "thorough and open" phone
conversation initiated by the White House, the two men discussed
their differences over the missile defence plans and the fate of
the Serbian province.


They also covered the Iranian nuclear standoff, and in particular
a recent UN resolution aimed at increasing pressure on Tehran.


Putin "set out the reasons for Russian concern about the US plans
to create a base for an anti-missile system in Central Europe,"
the Kremlin said in a statement.


The statement said Putin had "noted with satisfaction" what it
described as Bush's assurance that he was ready to discuss the
issue in detail with the Russian side.


The dispute over the missile plan has come to encapsulate growing
differences between Moscow and Washington on a range of security
issues.


Russia has strongly objected to the US plans to place components
of the shield in the Czech Republic and Poland as well as in one
of the South Caucasus nations, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.


All the proposed host countries were part of Moscow's sphere of
influence in Soviet times.


The Czech Republic and Poland, now NATO members, have insisted on
their right to make their own defence arrangements and Prague
said Wednesday it would begin formal negotiations with
Washington.


Washington says the missile defence system, which would include a
radar system in the Czech Republic and interceptor rockets in
Poland, is not directed against Russia and is needed to protect
against "rogue states" such as Iran.


Putin also reiterated long-standing Russian objections to a UN-
mediated plan for supervised independence for Kosovo, which has
been under UN supervision since NATO's bombing of the then
Yugoslavia in 1999.


"The Russian side confirmed its principled position against
imposing on the sides any kinds of scenario -- so that a solution
is worked out that would be acceptable both to Belgrade and
Pristina," the statement said.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the United Nations Security
Council and, has repeatedly objected to the independence plan put
forward by UN mediator Martti Ahtisaari.


Moscow has insisted that any solution must be agreeable to Serbia
as well as Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority, reflecting Russia's
close ties with Serbia.


Russia strongly objected to the NATO bombing in 1999 to stop a
Serb crackdown on ethnic Albanian guerrillas in Kosovo.


Belgrade has rejected independence for Kosovo, calling instead
for more negotiations.


Ahtisaari's plan is to be debated next month by the Security
Council, which must approve Kosovo's future status.


On Iran, the Kremlin described the recent UN resolution on Iran's
nuclear programme as a "strong signal" that it should cooperate
with the international community and the International Atomic
Energy Agency.


The statement noted that the resolution "unambiguously excludes
the use of force" and stressed the need for a negotiated
solution.


The conversation comes after Putin made clear the depth of
Russia's differences with Washington in a speech last month in
Munich that amounted to a full-frontal attack on US foreign
policy.


In the speech Putin said Washington had "over-stepped its borders
in all spheres."

