

At least 89 people were killed when an upturned oil tanker burst
into flames as it was being looted in northern Nigeria, officials
said Wednesday.


More than 100 survivors were being treated for burns, they said.


"From our initial record, 85 people lost their lives. But the
figure has now risen to 89 because four more people died in
hospital," Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency executive
secretary Aliyu Saleh Raminkura told AFP.


"The figure is likely to be higher. One hundred and one
survivors, mostly youths, are being treated ... for varying
degrees of burns."


Police said the accident happened Monday evening in Kaduna state
as the tanker tried to park in the village of Katugal, some 150
kilometres (90 miles) south of the state capital Kaduna.


Villagers were thronging around the vehicle to loot its valuable
cargo when it erupted in flames.


It was not clear if the impact of the accident caused the fuel to
leak or whether the vehicle was vandalized.


"The tanker turned over, the villagers came to scoop fuel and
then the tanker caught fire," a local police spokesman said.


Events perceived as giving a negative image of the country are
not reported by state media in Nigeria, explaining why news of
the accident took so long to become public.


Road accidents with large casualty figures are common in Nigeria
where vehicles are often poorly maintained, overloaded and driven
recklessly.


In December last year a driver lost control of his lorry outside
Kaduna during gubernatorial primaries and crashed into a crowd,
crushing scores of people to death.


Almost equally common are fires where people perish while helping
themselves to fuel, be it from oil company installations or
trucks.


Vandalism of pipelines and related installations is common, with
an official report published last July registering 2,258 such
acts in the previous five years.


For 2005 alone, an estimated 650,000 tonnes of crude was lost
through such incidents, according to the same report.


Last December a fire at a vandalised pipeline in Lagos killed
some 260 people who were stealing fuel. Across the country in the
past 10 years, thousands of people have died while stealing oil.


In the worst such incident, in Jeese village in the southern
Delta State in 1998, more than 1,000 suspected thieves were
roasted alive after an explosion.


The Nigerian authorities habitually show little sympathy for
those who die in such explosions, condemning them as greedy.


Nigeria is Africa's biggest crude oil producer but nevertheless
relies on imports for its refined product requirements as its own
refineries are not in working order.

