

Ireland's 'Celtic Tiger' economic boom will continue to roar this
year, Finance Minister Brian Cowen said Wednesday after official
figures showed the economy grew by 6.0 percent last year.


Preliminary figures from the Central Statistics Office (CSO)
showed that while gross domestic product (GDP) rose by 6.0
percent the government's more favoured measurement of gross
national product (GNP) soared even higher, by 7.4 percent.


"This is the strongest rate of annual growth since 2000," Cowen
said.


GNP is regarded as a more accurate barometer of the country's
economic performance by the government as it strips out
substantial repatriated foreign investment profits.


Cowen, whose Fianna Fail/Progressive Democrat coalition
government faces an election before June, said he was expecting
the boom times to continue during 2007.


"In terms of this year, my department is forecasting a
continuation of strong economic growth, with GDP and GNP both
expected to rise by 5.3 percent".


Cowen said last year's growth was ahead of what most commentators
had been assuming.


"Economic activity last year was particularly buoyant. There was
an improvement in our export performance last year mainly due to
higher services exports.


"Despite the size, strength and length of our economic success,
we must not take that success for granted. We live in an
increasingly competitive global environment in which we have to
trade if we are to prosper.


"We must ensure that we maintain and build on our
competitiveness. All our plans for the future are dependent on
maintaining a strong economy," Cowen said.


Ireland's leading economic thank-tank, the Economic and Social
Research Institute (ESRI), is also expecting that growth will
reach about 5.4 percent in GDP and GNP terms this year.


"Our feeling is that things are going very well in the economy
and that 2007 is going to be another year of really strong
growth," ESRI economist Yvonne McCarthy told AFP.


"We have raised some issues about the nature of the growth, about
where the growth is coming from, the fact that it is very much
domestically driven and that consumption is booming at the
moment.


"Our dependence on the construction sector is growing and at some
point we would hope that the external sector may improve and take
up the baton, driving growth again."


McCarthy said the economy was growing at or above full potential
with close to full employment.


"We see this continuing out to 2008 but we are forecasting a
slowdown in growth in 2008."


She said one of the factors boosting Ireland's spending is the
maturing of Special Savings Incentive Accounts (SSIA).


The scheme, introduced in 2001 by then-finance minister Charlie
McCreevy -- now Ireland's EU Commissioner -- involves the
government giving one euro for every four euros saved.


The giveaway, originally rolled out to encourage thrift as well
as to provide an opportunity for people to increase their
pensions savings, encouraged about 1.1 million people to open
accounts.


An ESRI/IIB Bank study on Wednesday said an SSIA payout of almost
16 billion euros (21 billion dollars) between May 2006 and April
2007 "is of a sufficient scale to have a major impact on the
Irish economy.


"Indeed, twelve months ago it was arguably the key element
underpinning forecasts of a surge in consumer spending and an
associated step up in Irish economic growth in both 2006 and
2007," the report said.

