

Zimbabwe police raided the headquarters of the main opposition
party on Wednesday as President Robert Mugabe jetted off to a
summit where regional leaders were to debate the growing crisis
in Harare.


Officials from the Movement for Democratic Change said that party
leader Morgan Tsvangirai was among a group arrested by the
security forces during the swoop on the offices in downtown
Harare.


However, police denied they had detained Tsvangirai barely a
fortnight after his arrest on March 11 when he was badly beaten
in detention.


Tsvangirai was unavailable for comment while his party and legal
team appeared to in the dark about his status. An AFP
photographer saw him being driven away by his own security team
from the MDC offices in the late afternoon.


"We never arrested him," national police spokesman Wayne
Bvudzijena told reporters while confirming the raid on the
Harvest House offices.


Bvudzijena said the raid was part of an investigation into
several recent firebombings which the police have blamed on the
MDC. Twenty-five people had been arrested on Tuesday and 10
during the raid on Wednesday, he added.


"We are not witch-hunting ... The terror acts which we have
witnessed is how civil wars start," he said.


The MDC had earlier issued a statement in which it said
Tsvangirai had been arrested as he was due to give a press
conference.


Contacted by AFP, Tsvangirai's spokesman Nelson Chamisa said he
had been unable to make contact with the MDC leader.


"We've heard he has been released but it is also a puzzle for us
because he is not at home or at the office and he is not
reachable on his mobile number," he said.


Dozens of armed riot police sealed off the area around the 1st
Street shopping mall during the raid, according to an AFP
correspondent. The normally bustling streets were deserted apart
from the police with their sniffer dogs.


People who had wandered out of their offices to see what was
going on were promptly ordered out of the area while many shop
owners shut their stores when the security forces turned up in
force, apparently fearful of violence.


The raid served to underline the animosity between the government
and opposition at a time when leaders of the 14-nation Southern
African Development Community (SADC) are expected to urge both
sides to reconcile.


The summit in the Tanzanian capital Dar es Salaam is being held
amid criticism that regional leaders have done little to rein in
Mugabe even if they have most to lose from the fallout in a
country where inflation now stands at 1,730 percent and food
shortages are widespread.


A Tanzanian foreign ministry official said Mugabe and his ZANU-PF
party would come under pressure to open talks with the MDC, even
if he sounded sceptical about the chances of a breakthrough.


"Nothing is impossible. I believe they (the SADC leaders) have
the power to convince," the official, speaking on condition of
anonymity, told AFP.


"Who knows? Mugabe may agree even if he is not necessarily the
one to hold talks."


Mugabe, who arrived in Dar es Salaam after attending a meeting of
his ruling party's politburo, was expected to portray the MDC as
the instigators of recent violence and puppets of his critics
during the summit on Thursday.


After the arrests and subsequent beatings of Tsvangirai and
dozens of other MDC activists as they tried to attend an anti-
government rally on March 11, Mugabe has shrugged off criticism
over their treatment from the West.


He has come in for more muted criticism from countries in the
region but the South African government used a debate in
parliament about Zimbabwe to voice its displeasure with how
events had been handled.


"The South African government wishes to express its concern,
disappointment, and disapproval of the measures undertaken by the
security forces in dealing with the political protests," deputy
foreign minister Sue van der Merwe told MPs.

