

The European Union on Wednesday kickstarted membership talks with
Turkey, which have been at a standstill since June due to
Ankara's simmering trade dispute with Cyprus.


EU ambassadors agreed that Turkey could begin negotiations on
Thursday on one of the 35 policy chapters that each aspiring
country must complete to join the rich European club, officials
confirmed.


The chapter concerns "enterprise and industry policy", one
diplomat said, on condition of anonymity. The German EU
presidency confirmed that the talks would resume but only at a
"technical level".


Turkey's chief EU negotiator Ali Babacan will travel to Brussels
to attend.


The move comes three months after the EU froze eight of the
policy areas to punish the government in Ankara for its failure
to fully extend its customs agreement with the bloc to EU member
country Cyprus.


Those chapters all concern trade and external relations. When the
freeze was announced, the EU also criticised Turkey's human
rights record, especially on freedom of religion and women's and
minority rights.


In Istanbul, Babacan, who is also Turkey's economy minister,
welcomed the move and said it "shows that Turkey's EU process is
soundly on track and that the official process is functioning
neatly."


He said Ankara was working on reforms to meet EU norms and said
he expected negotiations to begin in three other chapters before
the end of June.


A European Commission spokeswoman said Brussels "welcomes the
opening of a new chapter in Turkey's accession negotiations. This
shows that the process continues ... in the interest of
supporting reforms in Turkey."


Turkey's membership talks, which began in October 2005, have been
plagued by difficulties and the only policy chapter to be opened
so far was "science and research" in June.


Many member nations are wary of inviting in a huge, relatively
poor and mainly- Muslim state which would, under EU rules, have
voting rights similar to major powers like Britain or Italy.


Turkey refuses to open its ports and airports to Greek Cypriot
traffic until the EU lives up to its pledge to end the isolation
of the Turkish Cypriot statelet in the north of the island, which
is recognised only by Ankara.


Under the freeze, chapters can be opened but not closed until the
problem is resolved.


Paradoxically, EU officials have said, the decision to stop part
of the negotiations had given impetus to talks on chapters not
linked to the Cyprus trade dispute.


Amanda Akcakoca, analyst at the Brussels-based European Policy
Centre said the move is a good sign for Turkey and one that could
restore Turkish public confidence in the EU if more chapters are
opened soon.


"The negotiations need to go on in a very dynamic fashion in
order for people in Turkey to begin to believe the EU is actually
supporting them," she said. "They have to see it with their own
eyes."


Cyprus was divided in 1974 when Turkey seized its northern third
in response to an Athens-engineered coup in Nicosia aimed at
uniting the island with Greece.


On January 22, the 27 EU countries agreed to work towards lifting
the trade isolation of the far poorer north of the divided
island.


Work towards the adoption of "special conditions for trade" with
the north "must resume without delay," EU foreign ministers said
in joint conclusions from a meeting in Brussels.


The issue is likely to be raised at a two-day informal meeting of
EU foreign ministers in Bremen, northern Germany, starting Friday
which is expected to be attended by Turkish Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul.

