

Emboldened by a stunning victory in the Senate affirming a
timeline for leaving Iraq, Democrats pressed forward Wednesday
with their bid to bring most US troops home within the next 12
months.


The Senate was to vote by Thursday on a war spending bill
including a deadline to withdraw US forces from Iraq by March 31,
2008, after Democrats thwarted Republican efforts to remove the
timeline out of the legislation.


Majority leader Harry Reid renewed his call for a drawdown of US
forces, and refuted assertions by President George W. Bush's
Republicans that a recent "surge" of thousands of additional US
troops had helped to quell the sectarian violence in Iraq.


"The idea that the surge is working and that it needs more time
is a fantasy," Reid said on the Senate floor Wednesday.


"What we see today in Iraq is more of the same -- the same
violence, the same chaos, the same loss of life we've seen over
the past four-plus years."


Senate Republicans could have blocked Tuesday's vote by
filibuster, as they did with a vote earlier this month on a non-
binding resolution criticizing the president's troop buildup.


But Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said he decided it would be
far more expeditious to let the bill pass, then allow the
president to veto it.


"The fundamental issue before us is whether we're going to get
money to the troops," Republican Leader Mitch McConnell said on
the Senate floor, adding that his goal is to "get through the
process as rapidly as possible."


The draft Senate legislation would impose a binding requirement
for troop withdrawal to begin 120 days after passage, with a goal
of removing all but a token force in Iraq by March 31, 2008.


President Bush meanwhile renewed his vow to veto any bill
containing a firm timetable for withdrawing US troops.


"Some Democrats believe that by delaying funding for our troops,
they can force me to accept restrictions on our commanders that I
believe would make withdrawal and defeat more likely. That's not
going to happen," the president said.


"If Congress fails to pass a bill to fund our troops on the front
lines, the American people will know who to hold responsible," he
said.


Defense Secretary Robert Gates warned recently that current
funding for the Iraq war will dry up in a matter of weeks,
without a fresh cash infusion.


The House of Representatives last week passed its own 124
-billion-dollar version of the emergency spending bill with a
deadline to get troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


The votes in both chambers were passed by razor thin margins, and
Democrats conceded that they were unlikely to muster the two-
thirds vote to override a presidential veto. But they said that
their bid to redeploy US troops is focused on the long view.


"This is not one battle -- it's a long-term campaign to persuade
the president, to pressure the president to change course. And we
will keep at it," said Senator Chuck Schumer late Tuesday after
the Senate vote.


"We make no mistake about it, we have many more steps to go. But
we will persist until we get there," the New York Democrat said.


Meanwhile, one of Congress's most ardent opponents of timelines
repeated his assertion Wednesday that an early US troop
withdrawal from Iraq would be disastrous.


"The area will deteriorate into chaos and we will see them follow
us home," said Republican Senator John McCain, speaking on US
television.


"I think 50 of my colleagues made a very bad decision yesterday.
And I believe that there's no doubt that the president, who is
the commander-in-chief -- we will prevail.  We will fund whatever
is necessary for these brave Americans who are fighting in Iraq
to succeed," said McCain, contender for his party's presidential
nomination.


"It's tough. It's dangerous. It's long. It's hard," McCain said,
"but I am confident, if given the opportunity, we can have
success."

