

The United States on Wednesday denied that its naval exercises in
the Gulf are meant to pressure Iran, and stressed US support for
Britain as Tehran holds 15 of its naval personnel.


"These military exercises were long planned and so there is no
escalation of tension on our part," spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


On Tuesday, the Pentagon said the exercise was aimed at
reassuring friends and allies, not raising tensions with Iran.


The US Fifth Fleet, based in Bahrain, said two air wings from the
aircraft carriers would conduct exercises while warships from the
strike groups practice anti-submarine, anti-surface and mine
warfare.


"We are not interested in confrontation in the Gulf," said
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman.


The second carrier raised the US naval presence in the Gulf to
its highest level since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.


Two such naval formations are rarely deployed to the same area.


White House spokeswoman Perino reiterated US backing for Britain,
one of the few remaining US allies in Iraq.


"Now, we do stand with our British allies and stand behind (Prime
Minister) Tony Blair as he works to get these 15 soldiers back
from the Iranians," she said.


State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey concurred.


"The outcome that we need to see is for the British sailors to be
released and released unconditionally," he said.


"We have had discussions with the British government about this
and we stand by our British allies and certainly we want to do
whatever we can to assist them," Casey said.


Britain announced a freeze on all official ties with Iran, saying
its marines and sailors were in Iraqi waters, not in Iran's, as
Tehran claims.


President George W. Bush ordered a second US carrier to the Gulf
in January amid a mounting diplomatic confrontation with Iran
over its uranium enrichment and Western suspicions that Tehran is
bent on developing nuclear weapons.


Oil prices soared Wednesday in New York to their highest levels
in six months on fears of a burgeoning military conflict.


Iran controls traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, the
passageway to more than 40 percent of the world's energy, and has
in the past boasted of its power to strangle the world's energy
supply if pressured.

