

The European Commission decided Wednesday to open a second
lawsuit against Spain for blocking a bid by German energy group
E.ON for Spanish firm Endesa in a growing standoff between
Brussels and Madrid.


"The European Commission has decided to refer Spain to the
European Court of Justice for failure to comply with the
Commission's decisions requiring Spain to withdraw certain
conditions concerning E.ON's bid for Endesa," it said in a
statement.


Spain has defied repeated requests by the European Union's
executive arm for it to lift conditions it has imposed on E.ON's
takeover bid for electricity group Endesa.


The Spanish energy regulator CNE has set a number of requirements
for E.ON, including that it must conserve for five years the
Endesa brand name of the biggest Spanish electricity generator.


Other requirements stipulate that Spanish coal must be used in
power stations and that certain assets can not be sold off.


Madrid, which had favoured a takeover bid for Endesa from Spanish
rival Gas Natural, believes the conditions are vital for national
energy security.


In Madrid Spanish Economy Minister Pedro Solbes said Wednesday it
would be helpful if the European Court issued a ruling on the
Endesa takeover.


"It wouldn't be bad for the court to get involved," he told an
economic forum, arguing that European Union member states need to
know the extent of their "margin of maneuver" with regard to
decisions by the European Commission.


"The Commission says no and we say yes. The court will issue a
ruling that I hope will clarify what national governments can do
in the face of a merger with (EU-wide) dimensions ...," he said.


The European Commission, which is responsible for ensuring
members respect Europe-wide competition rules, can open legal
proceedings against defiant countries at the European Court of
Justice.


It lodged a first lawsuit against Spain before the EU court in
January for giving its energy regulator powers to scrutinise
foreign takeovers, which EU regulators considered "unjustified".


Madrid has been fighting tooth and nail to keep E.ON from taking
over Endesa, even though EU competition regulators have approved
the deal.


The E.ON-Endesa case has been widely seen in Brussels as a
flagrant example of protectionism by Spain.


Meanwhile, a bitter bidding war for Endesa has erupted with
Spanish construction firm Acciona and Italian electricity company
Enel, both Endesa shareholders, teaming together for a rival bid.

