

Four Palestinians were wounded by Israeli fire in Gaza on
Wednesday, the first military action against militants in the
coastal strip since a November truce.


An explosion hit a car the men were driving in the northern town
of Beit Lahiya, Palestinian medics and witnesses said.


An Israeli army spokeswoman said the military had targeted three
militants preparing to fire a rocket.


"The army identified three militants with rocket launchers
preparing to fire rockets, and opened fire," she said.


Gaza militants fired eight rockets into Israel on Wednesday,
without causing injuries. The attacks were claimed by the radical
Islamic Jihad group and by the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, loosely
affiliated with president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party.


Wednesday's strike marked the first time that the Israeli
military had retaliated against Gaza militants since a truce came
into effect on November 26 between the army and gunmen in the
coastal strip, the army said.


Under the truce, which has largely held, the army withdrew its
troops from Gaza and militants were supposed to stop firing
rockets.


A senior security source told AFP that Wednesday's strike was
"part of an approved government policy against Qassam rocket
launchers. We will take the necessary steps against the launching
cells in order to protect Israeli citizens."


A month after the truce began, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
approved the army carrying out "pinpoint" strikes on rocket-
launching cells, after two Israeli teenagers were wounded by a
rocket fired from Gaza.


On January 30, Israel launched an air strike against a tunnel
near the Karni border crossing, without causing casualties, a day
after a Palestinian suicide bomber killed three people in the Red
Sea resort of Eilat.


Also on Wednesday, chief of staff Major General Gabi Ashkenazi
was quoted as saying that the army will have to react to
Palestinian militant groups in the Gaza Strip becoming stronger.


"The strengthening process of the terror organisations in the
Gaza Strip will have to be confronted," Ashkenazi was quoted by a
lawmaker as telling parliament's foreign affairs and defence
committee.


Israeli officials have repeatedly warned that the Jewish state
would have to respond to an increase in alleged smuggling of arms
into Gaza from Egypt.


The army waged a months-long operation in Gaza last year in a bid
to rescue a soldier seized by three armed groups, including the
armed wing of the Islamic movement Hamas, in a raid on an army
border post nine months ago.


The operation, which wreaked havoc on the infrastructure of the
already impoverished coastal strip, left around 400 Palestinians
and three Israeli soldiers dead. The soldier is still a prisoner.

