

Early morning rain failed to dampen World Cup spirits at the
newly-built Providence stadium as South Africa took on Sri Lanka
here on Wednesday.


Although the 15,000 capacity stadium, built with the support of
the Indian government at a cost of 25 million US dollars, was not
even half-full, those inside were determined to enjoy the
atmosphere at the problem-hit venue.


"It's a dream come true for us and we have shown the world that
we can do what is required to host an international match," said
an official of the local organising committee, angered at the
negative publicity over the facilities.


Not many people had believed the stadium would be ready for the
Super Eight matches and even the local organising committee and
World Cup chiefs were at loggerheads over the readiness of the
ground.


Last week, a British events company was drafted in at the last
minute to ensure the stadium was finished.


The Cup organisers had feared problems with security and crowd
control turnstiles, poor accreditation facilities and video
boards could mar the matches but official said a lot of late work
was put in to remedy the situation.


"We have worked overnight to stage the matches in a top class
manner and are very happy to contribute to the World Cup," said
the official, who also expected the Guyanese President Bharrat
Jagdeo to witness the match later Wednesday.


Among the scores of flag-bearing Sri Lankan fans was Roy Alvis
who has come to follow his team in the West Indies.


"I am so proud to follow my team," said Alvis, 37, who was
wearing a Sri Lankan team shirt.


"I am so happy at the facilities, the International Cricket
Council and the World Cup organisers should be complimented for
the excellent facilities and I am happy that poor countries are
being able to stage international matches," said Alvis.


The locals, however, seem to have saved their enthusiasm for the
April 1 match, featuring hosts West Indies and Sri Lanka.


"Man, it's no use watching other teams. Come Sunday, we'll fill
the stadium," said Ian Graimes.


"Teams like Ireland and England do not have quality players and
many of my Muslim friends now want to stay at home because India
and Pakistan are not in the event."

