

The South African government expressed its disapproval of
Zimbabwe's crushing of political protests on Wednesday, during a
special parliamentary debate on the crisis in its northern
neighbour.


As regional leaders gathered in Tanzania to debate the escalating
crisis in Harare, South African deputy foreign minister Sue van
der Merwe urged Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe to foster an
atmosphere in which dialogue can take place.


"The South African government wishes to express its concern,
disappointment, and disapproval of the measures undertaken by the
security forces in dealing with the political protests," van der
Merwe told MPs.


"The South African government calls on the Zimbabwean government
to create a climate conducive for political dialogue."


South Africa has strongly defended its policy of "quiet
diplomacy" towards Zimbabwe during a worsening political and
economic crisis over the past few weeks which has seen several
opposition leaders arrested and assaulted.


Van der Merwe said a lack of communication between political
parties was exacerbating the crisis.


"The current Zimbabwean situation is a manifestation of the
absence of open political dialogue, which is regrettably sinking
the country into a deeper economic and political crisis from
which only Zimbabweans can extricate themselves."


Opposition parties lashed out at Mugabe, with Inkatha Freedom
Party MP Albert Mncwango saying South Africa was already being
harshly judged for allowing the 83-year-old's government to
"terrorise and pillage" a great country.


"Today we tell the tyrannical regime of Zimbabwe: 'Time up! In
God's name: Go!'," local news agency SAPA cited him as saying.


Mncwango said South African President Thabo Mbeki's silence and
lack of action on Zimbabwe had created negative perceptions and
it was not too late for him to live up to the anti-apartheid
heritage that had brought him to power.


"It is time to banish the old boys' club mentality and stop
sheltering dictators because of their liberation credentials," he
said.


Main opposition party the Democratic Alliance said South Africa
could help Zimbabwe resolve the crisis, by bringing opposing
sides together as they had in other volatile African countries.


"Why do we have a different attitude towards Zimbabwe? Or are we
waiting for complete meltdown and for greater human suffering?"
Gibson asked.

