

In-form opener Ed Joyce may be an Irishman playing for England
against Ireland in a World Cup Super Eights match here on Friday,
but is keen to do well against his former team-mates.


He played a major role in Ireland's qualifying for the event,
scoring two hundreds and as many half-centuries in the 2005 ICC
Trophy before becoming eligible for England under residential
rules.


It was just a coincidence that the Dublin-born Joyce made his
one-day debut against his former team-mates at Belfast last year.
He finds it a "bit strange" to play Ireland twice in his opening
15 one-dayers.


The left-handed Middlesex batsman is in form, having cracked two
successive half-centuries against Canada and Keyna in his last
two matches. He is now looking forward to maintain his form
against big sides in the second round.


England need a solid start from their openers to boost their
chances of qualifying for the semi-finals as they made it to the
second round without a point, having lost to New Zealand in their
opening group match.


Their chances of earning points look bright as they take on non-
Test-playing nation Ireland in their opening game here before
meeting Sri Lanka and defending champions Australia in big games
in Antigua.


Joyce wished Ireland well, but said he would try his best to
maintain his form in the second round.


"I'm really happy that Ireland qualified. I have got a couple of
good knocks in the previous games and I want to maintain my form
against them (Ireland) and then against big sides," said Joyce.


"I think runs against Test teams will be great. We have done
pretty well in the last few games, getting the team off to a
decent start. We are happy we are doing the job."


Joyce said his team were keen to maintain the momentum and a win
against Cup debutants Ireland would help before the important
games against Test-playing nations in Antigua.


"We are hoping to build on the momentum," said Joyce, who has so
far scored 460 runs in 15 one-dayers with one hundred and three
half-centuries.


If England were looking for an effective opener, their search
seemed to have ended with Joyce who opened with skipper Michael
Vaughan in the first three games.


With Marcus Trescothick not picked in the Cup squad and Andrew
Strauss unable to find a place in the side for the last three
games, Joyce played a big role at the top with two consecutive
half-centuries.


Joyce rose to fame with a century against Australia in a
triangular one-day series match at Sydney early this year, his
knock helping his team win the match. England, facing elimination
at one stage, went on to win the series.


The opener toured India for the Champions Trophy last year with
Andrew Flintoff's side, but returned home without playing a
match. His impressive performances in Australia eventually helped
him find a place in the Cup squad.


Joyce has yet to figure in a Test, but believes he will be in
contention if he keeps scoring runs.

