

The organiser of Vienna's extravagant Life Ball, Europe's largest
AIDS charity event, promises an even greater spectacle this year
for its 15th anniversary, with an array of international stars
and the usual outrageous costumes.


"This will definitely be the craziest and whackiest show the Life
Ball has ever seen," organiser Gery Keszler told a press
conference Wednesday as he presented the programme for the event
on May 26.


The Life Ball will feature the usual fashion show in front of
Vienna's City Hall, with some 200 extravagant costumes by New
York designer duo Traver Rains and Richie Rich of Heatherette.


More unusual will be the red-ribbon-shaped catwalk, half carpet
and half ice- skating rink, with models and celebrities gliding
by on ice skates.


This year's event, themed "Once Upon a Time," will see
international stars like singer Mya, actors Justin Chambers and
Alan Cumming, former French football star Christian Karembeu and
his model wife Adriana, as well as Lance Bass and JC Chasez of
former boy band N'Sync, strutting their stuff on the catwalk.


Actress Sharon Stone of the American Foundation for AIDS Research
will speak at the opening ceremony and pop sensation the Scissor
Sisters will perform live during the fashion show.


"This ball should be a fairy tale-like event," Keszler said,
drawing parallels between the Life Ball and its theme. Both are
fantasies but both also deal with pain, death and the pursuit of
a happy ending, he added.


This year's event will be broadcast live for the first time on
Austrian television, like the Opera Ball, with a later broadcast
on German television.


Some 40,000 people are expected to attend the event to raise
money for the fight against AIDS. Last year, the Life Ball had a
net profit of over one million euros (1.3 million dollars).


Flamboyantly-clad guests can buy a ticket for 75 euros (102
dollars) but the more conventionally-dressed will have to fork
out 135 euros.


The money goes to Keszler's Aids Life Association, which uses it
to fund national and international AIDS projects in cooperation
with other organisations, including the Elton John AIDS
Foundation.


As of December 2006, some 40 million people in the world had HIV
and the virus was spreading, according to figures from the United
Nations programme UNAIDS. Last year alone, some 2.9 million
people died of AIDS.

