

Jordan's Queen Rania and Hollywood star Natalie Portman teamed up
Wednesday to unveil a major new microcredit program targeting
global poverty with an emphasis on the Middle East.


The Jordanian queen and Portman were the star guests at the
launch of The Village Banking Campaign in New York. But what is
microcredit and how does it work?


Microcredit, or microfinance, works by extending tiny loans to
the poor without collateral so that budding entrepreneurs can
expand a small business, such as a handicraft shop, food stall or
clothes-making business.


Entrepreneurs build their business and pay back the loans,
usually with interest.


Such poverty-busting programs exist across the Americas, Asia and
Africa and are gaining ground in the Middle East. The sector has
boomed to include savings and microinsurance and has won United
Nations support.


In Afghanistan, some microcredit programs are Islamic-compliant
in accord with prohitibions on collecting and paying interest.


Loan amounts vary, but can range from a couple of dollars up to
1,000 dollars.


Advocates say micro loans can help destitute people, defined as
those surviving on under one dollar a day, break through the
poverty barrier and give themselves an economic boost.


But supporters face a huge challenge: Experts estimate there are
between 1.0 and 1.2 billion people around the world who scratch
out a living on less than one dollar a day.


Critics charge that microcredit interest rates can be high.
Grameen Bank, founded during the mid-1970s, for example charges
rates of up to 20 percent.


Grameen Bank's founder, Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus,
says, however, that most interest rates are much lower and that
over 90 percent of lenders repay their obligations. Grameen has
made several billion dollars in loans.


Advocates also stress that they often lend to illiterate people
with no savings who would be turned away by most banks.


It is difficult to set up a microcredit lender in some countries
because of onerous banking regulations, but with big global
financial groups, including Citigroup, entering the sector, that
may change.

