

Spanish champion Rafael Nadal won his "battle of the surfaces"
one-off exhibition clash on world number one Roger Federer here
on Wednesday, the claycourt king edging the grass giant 7-5, 4-6,
7-6 (12/10) on a dual surface court.


The pair brought a 6,800-capacity crowd to the "Palma Arena" for
the one-off best of three sets match between the world's top two
players, though the occasion was marred by some of the blustery
conditions sweeping across Spain during much of the afternoon.


Organisers had laid down 1,500 kilos of traditional Spanish red
clay on one side of the court and 400 square metres of grass
across the net for the unique encounter, groundsman Andreu
Puigserver charged with creating a surface part- designed for
serve and volley and part for baseline grind.


Shoe changes at changes of ends were de rigueur for the 1.2
million euro exhibition match designed to promote tourism on the
island.


But beforehand, the panels of the grass section also had to be
replaced after a pre-match tryout revealed the original surface
was not fit for matchplay.


Nadal, who hails from Mallorca, is the undisputed king of clay
having won his 72nd straight match on the dirt on Sunday in
Barcelona. He also defeated Federer in the Monte Carlo Masters
final a week earlier as well as in the French Open final last
year.


On grass Federer held the upper hand, having beaten the Spaniard
in the last Wimbledon final for a fourth straight win on the
surface.


Nadal has never won a grasscourt title whereas Federer has won
eight, including four Wimbledons and the Swiss has recorded 48
match wins on the surface on a roll.


The hybrid surface proved not especially to Federer's liking as
he lost his serve on the grass to fall 3-1 behind in the opening
set after Nadal had opened up holding on clay.


But Federer roared back, winning three games on the trot to level
only for his young rival to redouble his efforts and break the
Swiss service from the grass end to love to get his nose in
front.


In the second set Federer broke Nadal's serve from the clay end
in the opening game as he moved 2-0 clear held for 4-2 before the
Spaniard held on grass.


Nadal held on clay in the ninth game but couldn't prevent
Federer, ten grand slams to his name - though the French Open is
still missing from his cabinet - from levelling the contest to
force the decider as both men came to terms with the unusual
conditions.


Nadal held on clay but Federer held on the grass and the pair
traded breaks as they shared the opening six games before the
Swiss forced the tiebreak by holding in the 12th game with the
pressure on.


Starting out playing the first half dozen points of the shootout
on the green stuff that generally does not suit his game Nadal
looked to have given up the ghost as he trailed 4-2 but rallied
strongly after changing ends to get his feet dancing on his
favoured red dirt.


He could have wrapped things up but threw in an inopportune
double fault before finally edging home 12-10 after two-
and-a-half hours to clinch bragging rights to the delight of his
home crowd.

