

Sweden on Wednesday issued a protest to Russia after its
ambassador there, Johan Molander, was attacked during a visit to
the beleaguered Estonian embassy in Moscow, the foreign ministry
said.


"The ambassador's car was stopped and attacked by a mob as he was
leaving the Estonian embassy," ministry spokeswoman Sofia
Karlberg told AFP.


"They kicked the car and tore off the Swedish flag. The
ambassador was not injured but the atmosphere was very
aggressive."


Molander visited the Estonian embassy to discuss the diplomatic
tension between Estonia and Russia following the Baltic country's
removal of a Soviet war memorial.


Swedish state secretary for foreign affairs Frank Belfrage on
Wednesday presented the Russian embassy in Sweden with a "strong
verbal protest."


The foreign ministry said in a statement that the Russian
ambassador had also been summoned to the ministry for a meeting
on Wednesday.


"Russian police intervened too late and in an insufficient
manner," the ministry said, adding that the incident lasted 20
minutes.


Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt told Swedish news agency
TT the incident was "serious and unacceptable," and reiterated
Sweden's support for the Estonian government.


Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said Russian officials had
not done all they could have to prevent the incident.


"The (Russian) ambassador offered his apologies and promised that
the entire incident will be examined," Bildt, currently in India,
said on Swedish public radio SR. "But the fact that it occurs is
serious."


Russia's ambassador in Sweden, Alexander Kadakin, said on Swedish
television station SVT1 that Russian authorities had advised
Molander not to visit the Estonian embassy because of tension
there.


Pro-Kremlin youths have been camped outside the Estonian embassy
in Moscow for six days to protest against the relocation of the
Soviet war memorial in the Baltic state's capital Tallinn.


The statue at the heart of the Estonian-Russian row is seen by
Russians, including the large minority that lives in Estonia, as
a sacred memorial to Red Army soldiers who fell in World War II.


To Estonians, however, it is a painful reminder of half a century
of Soviet occupation marked by mass deportations and other rights
abuses.

