

China is expected to confront head on with the US Congress on the
thorny issue of Beijing's undervalued currency, which American
lawmakers complain is hurting the US economy.


Tough-talking Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi is to meet with key
Congressional panels during her visit to Washington this month
for a "strategic economic dialogue" launched by the two powers in
December, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said.


"Now I happen to think it is a big positive that the Chinese
would be here when Congress is in full session because they will
have an opportunity -- Wu Yi is a very persuasive woman and she
is a force of nature -- to go up and behind closed doors and talk
with some of the key committees and leaders out there," Paulson
told a forum of top economists, scholars and government
officials.


He said Wu Yi's meetings with the American lawmakers "can make a
real difference" in helping address the currency issue, a key
component of increasing US trade concerns with China that had
seen Beijing being dragged to the World Trade Organization by
Washington on various fronts.


Commenting on Congressional pressure on the administration of
President George W. Bush to prod China to do more to make its
yuan currency reflect market forces, Paulson said Beijing
understood the American legislative concerns.


"So what I explained to the Chinese is that it is very much in
their best interest if Congress believes, that the American
people believe that we can make more progress through
negotiations than we can through legislation or punitive measures
and so on," he said.


Some US lawmakers charge that Beijing has undervalued its
currency by up to 40 percent in order to boost its exports and
that this is a key reason for the snowballing bilateral US trade
deficit that hit 232 billion dollars in 2006.


Over the next few weeks, lawmakers plan to consider a bipartisan
legislation against China over the currency dispute. They say the
legislation will be well- crafted, WTO-compliant and difficult
for Bush to veto.


A bill in the last Republican-dominated Congress aimed at
punishing China with a tariff if it did not revalue its currency
surprisingly won two-thirds support in the Senate in a mere
procedural vote.


But it was held back to give Beijing time to undertake currency
reforms.

