

Spain's public prosecutor on Wednesday said he was calling for a
ban on all civic lists related to banned separatist Basque group
Batasuna and allies ahead of May 27 municipal and regional
elections.


Batasuna has been banned since 2003 for its alleged links to
armed separatist group ETA, but has been seeking ways of fielding
friendly candidates in the poll in its own absence.


However, prosecutor general Candido Conde-Pumpido said he would
be calling on the supreme court, Spain's highest judicial
authority, to exclude all related groups from the poll.


Those groups include a list of 244 "citizens' lists" bearing the
generic label "Abertzale Sozialistak", meaning "patriot and
socialist" in the Basque language.


Conde-Pumpido said he considered the lists a "continuation or
succession" of Batasuna. He also called for the banning from the
poll of another six pro- independence Basque lists on the grounds
that they had been "contaminated" by Batasuna.


The supreme court must make the final decision on the basis of
documentation which Conde-Pumpido is forwarding.


"It would be sufficient for Batasuna to condemn and reject
violence for this party to present itself at elections," he
stressed.


The main conservative opposition Popular Party has insisted that
any party with any kind of link to Batasuna be banned from the
polls, and the issue has become a key one in the run-up to the
elections.


On Sunday, Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ruled out
moves by Batasuna to contest the polls.


His government would apply the law governing party activities
under which Batasuna is banned "in letter and in spirit", he
said.


ETA has been blamed for over 800 deaths in its four-decade
campaign to achieve independence for the Basque region in
northern Spain and southwestern France.


The group violated a March 2006 ceasefire with a December 30
bombing in Madrid that killed two people, the first fatalities
since May 2003 in an ETA attack.


The bombing also torpedoed months of government attempts to inch
towards talks on a negotiated solution to the conflict.


On Thursday the prosecutor's office will rule on 80 of 256 lists
presented by the Basque Nationalist Action (ANV) party, which is
close to Batasuna, Conde- Pumpido added.


On Saturday the Spanish judiciary elected not to ban the party
wholesale after finding it was not materially linked to ETA or to
Batasuna. Founded in 1930, it has been barely active in recent
years.


ANV was a driving force between the founding of Batasuna in 1978.
Its recent decision to try to present lists at the May 27 poll
attracted suspicion among Spanish authorities.


On May 16 the supreme court is also set to decide whether a new
party, Abertzale Sozialisten Batasuna (ASB), set up in March by
pro-Batasuna elements, should be allowed to stand in the poll.


Last month ETA said it was resigned to the pro-independence
Basque left not being represented in the election. It stressed
its intent to carry on with its "armed struggle" given the
"current conditions."

