

British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Wednesday again resisted
calls for an independent inquiry into the 2005 London suicide
bombings, saying it would "undermine support" for security
services.


Pressure for a new probe has grown since it emerged Monday that
domestic security agency MI5 saw Omar Khyam, one of five men
jailed for plotting Al-Qaeda bombings in Britain, meeting two of
the London bombers in 2004.


In a new revelation, the BBC reported Wednesday that a
parliamentary committee which investigated the bombings was shown
only one of six photographs of Mohammed Sidique Khan, one of the
bombers, taken around that time.


The July 7, 2005 bombings in London, which killed the four
bombers and 52 other people on the city's public transport
system, constituted the worst-ever peacetime attack on British
soil.


Blair told lawmakers at his weekly question-and-answer session at
the House of Commons that it would be wrong to divert resources
from fighting terrorism by holding a new inquiry.


Parliament's intelligence and security committee (ISC) had
already carried out a detailed investigation in 2006, he added.


"If we end up saying, effectively, the ISC was not an adequate
inquiry, we now have another inquiry, we will simply cause great
anxiety and difficulty within the service," Blair said.


"We won't get any more truth because the truth is there in the
ISC. But what we will do is undermine support for our security
services, and I'm simply not prepared to do that."


Official sources quoted by Britain's domestic Press Association
news agency on Wednesday said that the ISC had been told of the
extra photographs featuring Khan but did not ask to see them
because they did not add to the facts in the case.


The ISC, which in its previous report said there were "no
culpable failures" by security services over intelligence, has
agreed to Blair's request that it review its findings.


The British government has repeatedly said that there was no
warning that the July 7 attacks would take place.

