

The elixir of youth may ultimately be hidden in a poorly-
understood gene that not only fosters longevity but enhances
quality of life, according to a landmark study released
Wednesday.


In a series of experiments on earthworms, a team of scientists at
the Salk Institute in San Diego, California have identified for
the first time a gene, known as PHA-4, which plays a critical
role in prolonging life without tapping into insulin-regulating
neural pathways that also control the aging process.


Other molecular biologists hailed the study as a "breakthrough"
that will change research agendas in the new but burgeoning field
of longevity genetics.


But they also cautioned that duplicating the results in humans is
far more complicated.


Only within the last decade have scientists understood that
single genes can significantly affect aging, once though to be an
uncontrollable process of decay.


"There are two major ways to prolong life," biologist Hugo
Aguilaniu, one of the study's co-authors, explained in an
interview.


One is to decrease sensitivity at the cellular level to insulin.
"This is already well known -- genetically modified mice have
been created that live twice as long as a result," he said.


But there are unwelcome side-effects, including stunted growth
and reproductive malfunction.


The other way is dietary restriction. "If you give an animal 70
percent of its normal intake, it will live 20 to 30 percent
longer," said Aguilaniu.


In a human being, that adds up to an additional 15 to 20 years of
life. A restricted diet, however, is not the same as near
starvation, and must consist of a balanced mix of nutrients to be
effective.


The link between eating less and living longer has been known for
decades. "But we had no idea what the molecular actor of this
process was," he said.


In the study, led by Andrew Dillin and published in the British
journal Nature, C. elegans worms were fed a bacteria laced with
genetic material that selectively switched off the PHA-4 gene. As
suspected, the worms no longer enjoyed a longer lifespan when
placed on a slimmed down diet.


But while this first experiment showed that the gene was critical
for diet- induced longevity, it did not prove that the PHA-4
directly triggered longer life, so another test was devised.


"When we over-expressed the gene" -- making it more active that
it would be naturally -- "the animals lived longer, up to 20 or
30 percent," even when they ate normally, said Aguilaniu.


Adding dietary restrictions boosted longevity even further.


The researchers conducted a separate set of experiments to be
sure that PHA-4 was acting independently from any insulin
signalling pathways.


"What is most interesting is that diet-restricted animals are
more dynamic. We like to talk not just about life span but
'health-span expansion' -- being healthier over a longer period
of time," Aguilaniu said.


The millimeter-long C. elegans worm is frequently used in the
laboratory because it is easy for researchers to disrupt the
functions of its nearly 20,000 genes to determine what they do.
Many, including PHA-4, have specific counterparts in humans.


Scientists familiar with the study described it as significant.
"It answers a question we have been asking for a long time,"
commented Martin Holzenberger, a researcher at France's National
Institute for Health and Medical Research.


"It is certainly a real breakthrough in our understanding of diet
restriction," he said, adding that the study showed PHA-4 to be
"a key gene" that regulates others.


Holzenberger said PHA-4, which corresponds to the "foxa" family
of genes in humans, probably works on enzymes to reduce harmful
oxidation in the cells. But he said the link between diet
restriction and longevity remains poorly understood.


"The closer we get to humans the more complicated it gets," he
told AFP, pointing out that the technique that worked in worms
can't be used on people.


Aguilaniu agrees that the relevance for humans remains, for now,
theoretical. "But all studies suggest that dietary restriction
works the same way in worms as it does in mice or in men. As soon
as we have a molecule that is specific, there are potential
pharmaceutical applications."


Gary Ruvkun, a geneticist at Harvard in Massachusetts, also
thinks the study could open up new avenues of research on aging
in humans. "There are homologues across all these organisms and
one expects them to work in similar ways," he said.


He predicted that other researchers would start to look more
carefully at the role of PHA-4, which was previously linked only
to growth of the pharynx in the C. elegans. Indeed, Ruvkun said
he had overlooked the gene in his own research because he assumed
that deactivating it in experiments would simply kill the worm.


But Dillin and his colleagues discovered once the worm reaches
adulthood, the gene changes function, regulating aging instead of
growth.

