

Troubled pop princess Britney Spears has given her first concert
for nearly three years, just over a month after coming out of
rehab and reaching a divorce settlement.


The teen idol put on a 20-minute show in front of a few hundred
revellers at San Diego's House of Blues nightclub, lip-syncing
her way through a handful of her most popular hits, local media
reports said.


The impromptu concert came after a tumultuous several months that
saw Spears give birth to her second child, file for divorce, and
bizarrely shave her head before checking into a rehab clinic.


Tuesday's show was billed as a concert by an unknown band called
the M&Ms but word that Spears was to perform had spread like
wildfire on the Internet in the days leading up to the event.


However Spears's comeback performance received mixed reviews from
those among the audience who had reportedly shelled out up to 500
dollars on the black market for 35-dollar tickets to the show.


"It wasn't a good move for her career," ticket-holder Mackenzie
Trimble told the San Diego Tribune. "When you come out and do
four songs and lip-sync ... that's not what Britney fans came to
see."


But one female fan was impressed.


"I think she worked the stage, her body looked great. So it was
good to see her finally come back and prove us all wrong," she
told Los Angeles television station KNBC.


Spears shot to superstardom in late 1998, with her smash-hit
debut album "Baby One More Time," which she followed with another
chart-topping success the following year, "Oops! ... I Did It
Again."


According to Time magazine, Spears has sold over 76 million
records worldwide and her 31 million albums sold in the US make
her the eighth best-selling female artist in American music
history.


Yet while Los Angeles-based Spears is idolized by many teenage
fans, her personal life has become a favorite topic for debate in
an insatiable entertainment media.


A much-publicized relationship and break-up with singer Justin
Timberlake made her a prime tabloid target, not least because she
cultivated an image of wholesome purity that was at odds with her
raunchy lyrics and dance routines.

