

A delegation of Catholic cardinals and bishops called here on
Wednesday for the Group of Eight most industrialised nations to
keep their promises to developing countries.


The bishops said they were "disappointed" by the "lack of
progress" made by G8 countries towards the development aid
targets they set at a summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, in 2005.


While debt relief goals set at Gleneagles have largely been met,
most G8 countries are well behind on the aid targets.


The bishops called on the G8 countries attending a summit in the
northern Germany town of Heiligendamm on June 6-8 to commit to
reaching the target of 0.7 percent of gross national income by
2015.


The debts of the world's poorest countries should be cancelled
without conditions, they said, echoing a recent call from Pope
Benedict XVI.


They also urged the most industrialised countries to speed up
their efforts to meet the Millennium Development Goals set by the
UN which are scheduled to be reached by 2015.


They urged G8 nations to promote good governance in developing
countries by systematically involving them in discussions on
policy and loans.


"We want to make political leaders realise that there has been a
globalisation of economic growth and therefore that there needs
to be a globalisation of charity and responsibility," said
Laurent Monsengwo, the archbishop of Kisangani, in one of the
countries seeking development aid, the Democratic Republic of
Congo.


"We see wealth and material fortune at the same time as abject
poverty. While the number of millionaires and billionaires is
growing fast in some parts of the world, the numbers of the
extreme poor remain stubbornly high," the bishops said in a joint
statement.


The bishops have already visited London and will conclude their
trip by meeting Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi in Rome on
Thursday.


Former UN secretary general Kofi Annan made a similar call when
he visited Berlin last week in his new role as head of the Africa
Progress Panel, which monitors the progress of rich countries in
meeting their commitments to Africa.


Annan said African countries wanted existing targets on aid to be
met.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel has promised that aid to Africa
and other developing nations will be one of the major themes of
the G8 summit, which will also be attended by the leaders of
Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, Russia and the United
States.

