

US President George W. Bush called on Congress Wednesday to
approve a "strategic" US-Colombia free trade deal after breakfast
and talks with his Colombian counterpart Alvaro Uribe.


He defended Uribe as "a true democrat, a strong leader, and a
friend" as the two leaders sought to counter accusations that
Bogota has maintained links to right- wing paramilitaries accused
of human rights violations and drug trafficking.


"This agreement has strategic implications. It is very important
for this nation to stand with democracies that protect human
rights and human dignity; democracies based upon the rule of
law," the US president said.


Uribe sought to bolster support for his country in the US
Congress, which has blocked 55 billion dollars in military aid to
Bogota due to the alleged ties by a number of Colombian
politicians to violent armed groups.


A vocal group of about 100 demonstrators assailed Uribe outside a
building of one of his meetings, protesting the trade agreement
and his government's rights record.


Uribe defended his record, challenging the protesters to discuss
the issues quietly.


"What do you prefer, violence or debate?" he asked them.


Earlier at the State Department he insisted that his government
did not have relations with criminal groups.


"If I would have created alliances with criminals, for instance
with paramilitaries to defeat guerrillas, maybe we would have
been much more successful in defeating guerrillas.


"However, for democratic reasons, for my duties with the new
generations of Colombians, for Christian convictions, the
decision we have made is one single decision: the only way
Colombia has to overcome terrorism is the institutional way."


Uribe, one of Washington's closest allies in Latin America,
described the trade agreement as "very important" and said his
country was committed to building "security with human rights,"
fighting drug trafficking and terrorists, and promoting social
reforms.


"Today, because of the efficacy of our administration, the vast
majority of Colombians are convinced that we will defeat
terrorists by institutional ways; that the only way Colombia has
for the future is the way of our democratic institutions," said
Uribe, speaking in English.


With the US Congress now under control of the opposition
Democrats, adoption of the trade deal is by no means guaranteed
and lawmakers have asked for amending the accord to address
social and environmental concerns.


Bush urged the lawmakers to approve other Latin American free
trade agreements with Panama and Peru to send a message of
support to the region.


"I urge the Congress to pass a trade agreement with Colombia and
Peru and Panama because it's in our interest that they do so,"
Bush told reporters.


"They're signals to South America that we stand with nations that
are willing to make hard decisions on behalf of the people."

