

Tiny moons shepherding dust through Jupiter's rings and a storm
nearly as large as the planet Earth are just two of the stunning
images caught by a NASA probe on its way to Pluto.


The piano-sized New Horizons spacecraft trained seven cameras and
sensor on the solar system's largest planet as it used Jupiter's
gravitation field to help propel itself deeper into space and
trim three years from its travel time to Pluto.


Getting closer to Jupiter than any previous probe -- 1.4 million
miles (2.25 million kilometers) away on February 28 -- New
Horizons produced beautiful clues to how the system of the
largest planet functions.


It grabbed the clearest images ever of the Jovian ring system
which showed a series of unexpected arcs and clumps of dust, with
the tiny inner moons Metis and Adrastea appearing to shepherd the
materials around the rings.


"We're starting to see that rings can evolve rapidly, with
changes detectable during weeks and months," said Jeff Moore, New
Horizons Jupiter Encounter science team leader.


"We've seen similar phenomena in the rings of Saturn."


It also got the closest look at the Little Red Spot, Jupiter's
second largest storm which is about 70 percent of the Earth's
diameter. The Little Red Spot formed when three smaller storms
merged during the past decade and began turning red about a year
ago.


"This is our best look ever of a storm like this in its infancy,"
said Hal Weaver, from the Johns Hopkins University Applied
Physics Laboratory, which built and operates the New Horizons
spacecraft.


"Combined with data from telescopes on and around Earth taken at
the same time New Horizons sped past Jupiter, we're getting an
incredible look at the dynamics of weather on giant planets."


New Horizons made nearly 700 observations over the course of
several weeks and has already sent back about 70 percent of the
34 gigabits of data, radioed to NASA's largest antennas over more
than 600 million miles (1,000 million kilometers). It was a
successful "stress test" of the spacecraft and team, NASA said.


"We can run simulations and take test images of stars, and learn
that things would probably work fine at Pluto," said John
Spencer, deputy lead of the New Horizons Jupiter Encounter
Science Team.


"But having a planet to look at and lots of data to dig into
tells us that the spacecraft and team can do all these amazing
things. We might not have explored the full capabilities of the
spacecraft if we didn't have this real planetary flyby to push
the system and get our imaginations going."


New Horizons is expected to reach Pluto in July 2015.

