

Jordan's Queen Rania, who launched a new microcredit campaign
Wednesday, said offering banking services to the world's poor
yields wider social benefits, but that more cash is needed to
combat poverty.


In an interview with AFP, the Jordanian queen said demand for
microcredit from the destitute in Jordan and the wider Middle
East is outpacing funds, as she argued that microcredit could
help empower women across the Middle East.


"Unfortunately in the region, the demand is outstripping the
supply, the financial capital to meet this demand, so it's one of
the most under-serviced regions," the queen said.


Speaking passionately, the striking Jordanian royal said the
Middle East was enduring a "finance gap," and she called on
governments and donor agencies to dig deep and help support
microcredit programs that offer tiny loans to poor, but budding
entrepreneurs.


"I believe it is one of the tools to empower women. In order to
improve women's status in the Arab world, it's a multi-faceted
approach, you have to target the issue from many different
angles, but one of the ways is through microfinance," she said.


The queen, who is married to King Abdullah II, spoke after
unveiling the launch of a major new microcredit program to be run
by FINCA International (Foundation for International Community
Assistance), a global microcredit pioneer.


Microcredit, or microfinance, works by extending small loans to
the poor without collateral so that budding entrepreneurs can
expand a small business, such as a handicraft shop or food stall.
Loans are typically paid back with interest.


Such poverty-busting programs exist across the Americas, Asia and
Africa and are gaining ground in the Middle East, including Saudi
Arabia. The sector has boomed to include savings and
microinsurance and has won United Nations support.


The queen sits on FINCA's board, and the new program seeks to
expand FINCA's global footprint by offering financial services to
one million of the world's poorest families, including a new
initiative targetting Jordan.


Queen Rania hopes the Jordan programs can be used as a spring
board to spread the appeal of microcredit across the wider Middle
East.


She said the Jordan program would not turn away needy Iraqi
refugees, who have flooded into Jordan since the United States
invaded Iraq in 2003, and that Jordanian women would be
especially encouraged to participate.


"A lot of the Iraqis that we have in Jordan are not necessarily
considered refugees, a lot of them are quite well off, but
obviously some are not and some will need services and they won't
be excluded," the queen said.


Talking in a meeting room at New York University, Queen Rania
said FINCA's objective in Jordan would be to serve all people,
"regardless of their origins."


She stressed that other FINCA programs around the world have
enabled women to take control of family finances and that women
often plough any business gains, however small, into their
children's education and healthcare triggering a broader social
payback.


"I believe it is one of the tools to empower women. In order to
improve women's status in the Arab world, it's a multi-faceted
approach, you have to target the issue from many different
angles, but one of the ways is through microfinance," the queen
said.


Despite speaking ambitiously of microcredit's potential, the
queen said she recognizes it is not a sole panacea to eradicate
global poverty.


"It's an enabling tool. It takes an individual himself to want to
use that tool. A person has to have an entrepreneurial will and
determination to succeed," she underlined.


"If you have the determination and the desire to establish your
own business, to take control of your life, then it can work,"
she said, arguing it's one of the most "powerful" methods that
can be used to combat crushing poverty.


The challenge facing the queen, FINCA and the microcredit sector
is enormous. Experts estimate there are between 1.0 and 1.2
billion people around the world who scratch out a living on less
than one dollar a day.


But microcredit at root is ingenious, the queen says.


"It's a very simple idea of giving people a small loan ... people
who haven't had access to financial services previously," she
said, stressing that it offers the socially excluded "dignity."


The financial sector has started taking note, however, and
insurance giant AIG announced a pledge Wednesday of 1.5 million
dollars to boost FINCA's operations.

