

Venus Williams earned a comfortable 6-4, 6-3 victory over young
Dutchwoman Michaella Krajicek, but fifth seeded Russian Nadia
Petrova was upset 6-3, 6-3 by Mara Santangelo of Italy at the
Warsaw Open on Wednesday.


Williams is enjoying a welcome run after injury led to her
playing just two matches between last year's Wimbledon and the
end of the 2006 season.


Although she missed the Australian Open, since making her return
to the tour at Memphis in late February - a tournament she won -
the American has now won 17 matches this season.


She was never troubled by Krajicek, who refused to be intimidated
by her illustrious opponent but could not find a way to counter
Williams's power and sheer will-power.


Williams broke to lead 2-0 and, although Krajicek immediately
levelled, a futher break in the 10th game gave the unseeded
American the opening set.


Krajicek continued to compete strongly in the second set and
stepped into the ball well, but she was forced into a backhand
error and dropped her serve at 3-2. That was enough for Williams
to secure victory.


Williams was relieved that the icy weather of the previous few
days had given way to warm sushine.


"I was just glad it was a lot warmer. Yesterday I was prepared to
play in the snow, so this was definitely an upgrade," she said.


"It was a really tough year (in 2006), but there wasn't much I
could do about it except sit back and wait.


"Now I'm excited to be on the court every time that I'm out
there. I feel like I have an opportunity and it's wonderful to be
doing what I love."


Petrova never looked at ease against Santangelo, who recently
demonstrated her potential by defeating Jelena Jankovic in Miami
for her first victory over a top 10 opponent. Petrova is her
second.


"It was a great match," said Santangelo. "I'm very happy. I tried
to do my best, be aggressive and play my game and try to wait for
the points."


Although both players served well, Petrova failed to match the
consistency of her opponent. A break for 3-1 decided the first
set, and although Petrova established a 3-0 lead in the second
she then dropped the next six games.


Santangelo can expect to face top seed Justine Henin in the
quarter-finals, although the Belgian first has to overcome Anna-
Lena Groenefeld.


"Well, it will be another tough match for me and I will try to do
my best," said Santangelo. "I know it's going to be difficult.
But I know how she plays. She is one of my favourite players. I
will try to play my game and we will see how it goes."


There were victories for Russians Svetlana Kuznetsova and Anna
Chakvetadze. Third seeded Kuznetsova needed to recover from a set
and a break down to beat Ukraine qualifier Kateryna Bondarenko
2-6, 6-2, 6-1, and sixth seeded Chakvetadze overwhelmed Tathiana
Garbin of Italy 6-2 6-2.

