

The reigning world champions Sweden won preliminary Group A with
a 100-percent record wrapping it up with a 6-0 win over
Switzerland here on Wednesday.


Forward Johan Davidsson collected two goals and an assist, while
Johan Backlund needed to produce only eight saves to help the
Swedes to record their first whitewash here.


The Swedes, who dominated play from the start, outshot their
rivals 10-1 in the opening period but failed to find the net.


But after the restart the defending champions underlined their
supremacy scoring on five occasions through Martin Thornberg,
Anton Stralman and Patric Hornqvist, while Davidsson grabbed his
double.


In the third the Swedes eased up but still scored once to secure
their win.


In the other Group A match earlier on Wednesday a sudden-death
goal by Jason Cirone in the last minute of overtime sent Italy
into the qualifying round of the event following a hard-fought
4-3 win over Latvia.


Latvia took a 1-0 lead through Lauris Darzins, who netted the
only goal in the first period beating Italy's netminder Guenther
Hell from close range at 14:51.


Italy levelled three minutes into the second period, through
Cirone, who scored with a close-range shot when Latvia were
shorthanded.


In the third period both teams scored twice again but no one
could find the decisive goal in regulation time which sent them
into five minutes of extra- time.


Cirone became the hero of the match scoring the winning goal and
his second of the match, with 40 sec remaining sending Latvia
into the relegation round.


In the battle of the Group C underdogs Germany outscored 5-3
Norway to continue playing in the qualifying round.


Germany dominated play from the start and their forwards Michael
Hackert and Michael Wolf scored both on powerplay in the opening
period to lift their side 2-0 up.


In the second period the Scandinavian squad picked up the pace
and replied through Matts Trygg, Morten Ask and Lars Erik Spets,
who scored one apiece within less than two minutes to make it 3-2
to Norway.


But Wolf netted his second to level at 3-3, while John Tripp and
Alexander Barta added their goals to restore Germany's two-goal
advantage and secure victory.


In the last Group C match Canada, who won their last world crown
in 2004, defeated the 2002 world champions Slovakia 5-4 to
maintain a perfect record in the preliminary round.


Slovakia clinched an early lead through Washington Capitals' rear
guard Milan Jurcina, who scored two minutes into the match.


The Canadians, who looked rusty in their two previous Group C
matches, replied positively pinning their rivals back and
levelled through defender Cory Murphy, who scored when the game
was 3:39 old.


The opponents traded goals throughout the second period but
Canada took a narrow 4-3 lead before the second break.


Slovakia levelled early in the third as their longstanding leader
Miroslav Satan scored his first goal in the tournament but
Columbus Blue Jackets striker Rick Nash scored Canada's winning
goal halfway into the period.

