

New Zealander Glen Jackson saw off the challenges of the likes of
England centre Mike Catt here on Wednesday to be named the
Professional Rugby Players' Association player of the year.


The 31-year-old former New Zealand Maori took the prestigious
award ahead of Bristol number eight and fellow New Zealand-born
Dan Ward-Smith and Leicester's Samoan winger Alesana Tuilagi, who
has been instrumental in taking the Tigers to the European Cup
final.


Jackson got his nose in front because of being the leading points
scorer in the Premiership which has inspired Saracens to make
this weekend's semi-final against Gloucester.


Jackson was left virtually speechless.


"I was very shocked when I heard the news and couldn't quite
believe it to be honest," said Jackson, who signed for Saracens
from Waikato in November 2004.


Ward-Smith could easily have taken the award but for the fact he
has not played since badly damaging knee ligaments in January,
which cost him his place in England's Six Nations squad and has
also made him a major doubt for the World Cup later this year.


Catt earned his nomination for an outstanding club season with
London Irish, which won the 35-year-old South African-born centre
a return to the England starting line-up and saw him inspire the
world champions to a surprise win over France in the Six Nations,
costing them the Grand Slam.


Bristol lock Roy Winters, whose reward for an outstanding season
was a place in the England squad for the tour of South Africa,
was also nominated.


The Young Player of the Year - the Nick Duncombe Memorial Award -
went to another back who shone in the Six Nations, Harlequins
winger David Strettle.


He beat Wasps flanker Tom Rees into second place with London
Irish fly-half Shane Geraghty - outstanding on his Six Nations
debut against France in setting up the second try - third.


"Initially, I was just really pleased to be nominated alongside
some great young players," said Strettle, who scored a try on his
debut, albeit in the record defeat by Ireland.


"Then to have won the award was a bit of a shock and just a
brilliant feeling."


Completing the list of nominees were Newcastle fly-half Toby
Flood - a try scorer against France - and Gloucester centre
Anthony Allen.


England's World Cup-winning captain Martin Johnson was inducted
into the Hall of Fame, following the likes of Irish legendary
centre Mike Gibson and England flyer David Duckham.

