

A US commission called Wednesday for Vietnam to be reinstated on
Washington's blacklist of countries violating religious freedoms,
as other Asian countries including China and Indonesia also were
sharply criticized for serious abuses.


"We recommend that Vietnam be re-designated as a CPC (country of
particular concern) in 2007," the US Commission on International
Religious Freedom wrote in its annual report.


It said that since Hanoi was taken off the blacklist in November
2006 and joined the WTO, "positive religious freedom trends have,
for the most part, stalled" amid a crackdown on human rights
activists.


The authoritarian Southeast Asian nation was taken off the US
State Department's list of countries of particular concern on the
eve of a visit to Hanoi by President George W. Bush.


The commission recommended that 10 other countries remain on the
list: China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar, Pakistan, Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.


The panel noted that "there are no personal freedoms in North
Korea," one of the most egregious rights violators.


"The government severely represses public and private religious
activities and maintains a policy of pervasive control over
government-sanctioned religious practice," the commission wrote.


Meanwhile, Beijing, the commission wrote, engages in serious
restrictions, even repression, of religious freedoms,
particularly toward Tibetan Buddhists, Uighur Muslims, Christians
and adherents to spiritual practices like Falun Gong.


Abuses of religious freedoms in China "involve imprisonment,
torture, and other forms of ill treatment," the panel wrote.


"Religious freedom conditions deteriorated for communities not
affiliated with any of the seven government-approved religious
organizations, those considered by the government to be 'cults,'
and those closely associated with ethnic minority groups in
China."


Myanmar's military regime has allowed and at times even
instigated violence against religions minorities, particularly
Christians and Muslims, the commission concluded.


Violations of religious freedoms in Indonesia, meanwhile, were
deemed worrisome enough to warrant its inclusion on the
watchlist.


Although the situation there has improved somewhat, the
commission expressed concern over "ongoing sectarian violence and
the Indonesian government's inability or unwillingness to hold
those responsible to account."


The panel also decried "the forcible closures of places of
worship belonging to religious minorities, and the growing
political power and influence of religious extremists, who harass
and sometimes instigate violence against moderate Muslim leaders
and members of religious minorities."


Iraq, Afghanistan, Belarus, Egypt, Bangladesh, Cuba and Nigeria
also were included on the watchlist this year.


Writing about Vietnam, the commission voiced disappointment at
"continued arrests and detentions ... and continued severe
religious freedom restrictions" targeting Protestants and
Buddhists.


The panel recognized some positive religious freedom developments
by the ruling Communist Party, including the release of prominent
religious prisoners and the end to enforced renunciations of
faith.


But the panel said it was "too soon to determine if the legal
protections would be permanent and whether such progress would
last beyond Vietnam's accession to the World Trade Organization."


Among the non-Asian countries added to the watchlist was Iraq,
"due to the alarming and deteriorating situation for freedom of
religion and belief."


"Despite ongoing efforts to stabilize the country, successive
Iraqi governments have not adequately curbed the growing scope
and severity of human rights abuses," the panel wrote.


"The Iraqi government has engaged in human rights violations
through its state security forces, including arbitrary arrest,
prolonged detention without due process, extrajudicial
executions, and torture."

