

Jordan's Queen Rania and actress Natalie Portman joined Wednesday
in the launch of a major new microcredit program targeting global
poverty that will focus initially on the Middle East.


The Jordanian queen and the US-Israeli actress both spoke at the
launch of the Village Banking Campaign, which aims to bring
banking services to one million of the world's most destitute
families.


As part of the Middle East effort, the queen said FINCA
International (Foundation for International Community
Assistance), a global microcredit group, plans to start its first
operations in Jordan in July.


"I know that creating opportunity in my region is not an option;
it is a necessity," the queen said as she unveiled the campaign
at New York University at a luncheon attended by Golden Globe-
winning Portman, FINCA staffers, business executives and
students.


"To my mind, microfinance is both a sound and smart investment,
not only in lifting the lives of the working poor, but in
stitching together the fragile, fraying seams of our troubled
world," Queen Rania said.


The planned Jordan microcredit project follows the 2004 launch of
a FINCA program in Afghanistan, an Islamic-compliant lending
operation that claims to have over 34,000 "clients."


Microcredit, or microfinance, works by extending tiny loans,
ranging from a few dollars to 1,000 dollars, to the poor without
collateral so that budding entrepreneurs can expand a small
business, such as a handicraft shop, food stall or clothes-making
business.


The aim is to help the poor, who pay back the loans with
interest, boost their livelihoods.


Portman urged people not to be "indifferent" to the plight of the
world's poor, who number in the hundreds of millions. Experts say
there between 1.0 and 1.2 billion people around the world who
survive on less than one dollar a day.


"My goal for this campaign is to galvanize my generation to
support Village Banking, and take a leadership role in the fight
against poverty," Portman said.


Another campaign goal is to get 100,000 microcredit village banks
up and running by 2010 to serve people surviving on less than two
dollars a day.


The Jordanian queen sits on FINCA's board, while Portman -- who
has starred in Hollywood blockbusters including several Star Wars
movies -- is an "Ambassador of Hope" for the poverty-busting
group.


Portman stressed that it's barely possible to buy a cup of coffee
in New York for two dollars, but that tiny micro loans of that
amount and more can have a big impact on the poor, enabling them
to buy seed packets for example.


Microcredit programs exist across the Americas, Asia and Africa
and are growing in the Middle East, and the sector has expanded
to include savings and microinsurance programs, as well as
gaining United Nations support.


Few people, except those toiling in the sector, had heard of
microcredit until a few years ago, but it is riding a tsunami of
publicity and acclaim and got a significant boost last year when
microcredit pioneer Muhammad Yunus won the Nobel Peace Prize.


And the global banking industry, which critics charge had all but
shunned the poor, appears to be taking note.


Top executives from insurance giant AIG and credit card behemoth
VISA International attended Wednesday's luncheon. AIG, which has
worked with microcredit groups in Uganda, said it would pledge
1.5 million dollars towards FINCA's new efforts.


US financial behemoth Citigroup is also vying to muscle into the
sector, declaring in a recent advertising campaign: "There's
nothing MICRO about it."


FINCA, which is based in Washington, plans to self-finance its
Jordan program.

