

Rupert Murdoch, probably the planet's most powerful press
magnate, has become a transatlantic kingmaker and a key ally to
George W. Bush, Hillary Clinton, Margaret Thatcher and Tony
Blair.


The Australia-born Murdoch, 76, became a US citizen in the 1980s
to expand his global empire and today owns 175 newspapers
worldwide, enough to make Citizen Kane jealous.


In the United States, his News Corp. owns the newspaper New York
Post, the Fox film studios and television network and the rapidly
growing Internet social networking site, MySpace.


The holding company which was moved from Australia to the US also
owns satellite broadcasters BSkyB and Sky Italia along with the
Asian-based Star TV. The holdings also include the daily The
Australian and the US-based book publisher HarperCollins.


Tuesday Murdoch flexed his might again, with a bold, unsolicited
bid of five billion dollars for Dow Jones, the publisher of The
Wall Street Journal, the leading business newspaper in the
world's biggest economy.


"We feel this is the greatest newspaper in America. One of the
greatest in the world," Murdoch, who is chairman and chief
executive of News Corp., said in an interview on his Fox News
television network.


Born in 1931, Keith Rupert Murdoch inherited in the 1950s two
small newspapers in his home country.


In 1969, he moved to Britain, where he had studied at Oxford
University, and acquired News of the World and The Sun, which
would become the pillars of the British tabloid press.


In 1976, he set his sights on America with the purchase of New
York magazine and the New York Post.


His conquest of the British press reached a higher rung in 1981,
with the takeover of the The Times and The Sunday Times. Today,
his News Corp. has a market value of some 70 billion dollars.


Murdoch has used such international media clout to meddle in
politics, his critics say.


A profile of Murdoch recently published by The New Yorker
magazine recalls that he had played a pivotal role in the New
York mayoral election in 1977, in supporting a candidate trailing
in opinion polls.


"The Post's endorsement transformed my campaign. I wouldn't have
won without it," said Ed Koch, who remained in control of city
until 1989.


During the Iraq crisis, Murdoch drew flak for his support of a US
intervention, sparking outrage in some quarters when The Sun
published in February 2003, a month before the US-led invasion, a
special French-language edition, with the headline screaming
"Chirac is a Worm."


An admirer of former British Conservative prime minister Margaret
Thatcher and former US Republican president Ronald Reagan,
Murdoch never hid his scorn for unions and taxes. In 1983, he
broke a British union by firing 5,000 of its members.


In the United States, his 24/7 television network Fox News
frequently has been criticized for what are seen as overly
conservative positions and its nearly unconditional support for
President George W. Bush's "war on terror."


"Fox News gives you both sides of every story: the president's
side, and the vice president's side," political analyst Stephen
Colbert remarked in April 2006.


In Britain, Murdoch shocked political circles when his newspapers
The Sun and News of the World backed the candidacy of Labour's
Tony Blair after their long devotion to the Conservatives.


The New Yorker magazine article recalled how the future prime
minister in 1995 had traveled 14,000 kilometers (8,700 miles) to
participate in a News Corp. conference.


Last year the septuagenarian once again made surprising political
news, endorsing the re-election of Senator Hillary Clinton, a New
York Democrat.


But the announcement was not totally out of the blue, considering
the ties between the wife of former president Bill Clinton and
Murdoch, who organized a fundraiser for her election campaign.


Asked whether he would support Hillary Clinton for a 2008
presidential bid, Murdoch said last year: "If you go on her
history, I would say she would be a lot more liberal than I am,
but I don't know. If she makes it, we'll see."

