

The United States denied a report Wednesday that it was seeking
to curb a visa waiver program for British citizens to limit
access to the US for Britons of Pakistani origin.


The report by the The New York Times said the US Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) had raised the issue with British
officials due to concern over the number of recent terror plots
in Britain involving people with ties to Pakistan.


"According to everyone I've checked with, including the DHS,
there are no such kinds of discussions ongoing," said State
Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey.


"It is repugnant to the values of this country ... to suggest
that the United States would engage in what, frankly, the way I
read that story, would amount to some form of racial profiling,"
he told reporters.


Casey went on to say that visa waiver programs were covered by US
legislation and could only be altered with congressional
approval.


"This is US law, this isn't something where there's frankly room
for negotiation with individual countries over the terms of how
we apply it," he told reporters.


Casey also said the US government had other tools such as "no fly
lists" and "watch lists" to prevent people identified as possible
security threats from entering the country.


"Being eligible to come without a visa through the visa waiver
program does not necessarily guarantee one entry into the United
States," he said.


"Ultimately that determination is made at the port of entry."


The New York Times report said Chertoff's main concern was the
number of people arrested in Briton for terrorist activities who
had no previous criminal record or any known links to terror
groups and so who, presumably, would not be included on US watch
lists.


It specifically mentioned Omar Khyam, the Pakistani-origin
ringleader of a thwarted London bomb plot who was sentenced to
life imprisonment on Monday along with four other Muslim men on
charges of plotting to bomb London sites, allegedly for the Al-
Qaeda group of Osama bin Laden.


A senior official cited Chertoff aides saying the Homeland
Security chief had been "misquoted" in the report that "there
aren't any kind of discssions with the UK on this."


The official also said the very close cooperation between US and
British intelligence and counter-terrorism agencies offered
adequate safeguards against the possible transit of suspected
terrorists between the two countries.


"I'm pretty confident in saying that you don't ever need to think
about some kind of very draconian system like that to be able to
help us deal with the potential threats that are out there," the
official said on condition of anynomity.

