

The United States, worried about the number of terror plots in
Britain involving people with ties to Pakistan, is seeking to
curb a visa waiver program for British citizens to limit access
to the US for Britons of Pakistani origin, it was reported
Wednesday.


The New York Times said the chief of President George W. Bush's
Homeland Security department, Michael Chertoff, had opened talks
with London about closing the visa waiver loophole.


But it said the British were resistant, fearing that such
restrictions could spark a backlash from British voters of
Pakistani origin, a community of some 800,000 that traditionally
backs the governing Labor Party.


Officials told the newspaper they were reluctant to press the
issue too hard and embarrass Prime Minister Tony Blair, a staunch
Bush ally in the war in Iraq, as he prepares to step down from
office.


A State Department spokesman, Tom Casey, said he was unaware of
any contacts with Britain over the visa waiver program, but could
not rule out that such discussions were taking place.


But he noted that visa waiver programs were covered by US
legislation and could only be altered with congressional
approval.


"This is US law, this isn't something where there's frankly room
for negotiation with individual countries over the terms of how
we apply it," he told reporters.


Casey also said the US government had other tools such as "no fly
lists" and "watch lists" to prevent people identified as possible
security threats from entering the country.


"Being eligible to come without a visa through the visa waiver
program does not necessarily guarantee one entry into the United
States," he said.


"Ultimately that determination is made at the port of entry."


The New York Times report, though, said Chertoff's main concern
was the number of people arrested in Briton for terrorist
activities who had no previous criminal record or any known links
to terror groups and so who, presumably, would not be included on
US watch lists.


It specifically mentioned Omar Khyam, the Pakistani-origin
ringleader of a thwarted London bomb plot who was sentenced to
life imprisonment on Monday along with four other Muslim men on
charges of plotting to bomb London sites, allegedly for the Al-
Qaeda group of Osama bin Laden.


In its annual Country Reports on Terrorism released on Monday,
the State Department warned that Al-Qaeda's tactics had evolved
to focus more on recruiting agents from "alienated youth" among
immigrant populations in target countries.


Whereas Al-Qaeda used to launch "expeditionary" attacks involving
agents dispatched to third countries -- as in the September 11,
2001, airliner assault on New York and Washington, the report
said, it now favored "guerrilla terrorism" using locally
recruited militants to attack their home countries.

