

China should freeze investments in Iran and vigorously enforce UN
sanctions against the Islamic republic for pursuing sensitive
nuclear work, an ex-senior US official who crafted US policy on
China said Wednesday.


Robert Zoellick, a former deputy secretary of state, said while
the Russians had now "found cause to stop work" on Iran's key
Bushehr nuclear power station, Beijing should cooperate with
Washington, the European Union, Moscow and others to dissuade
Tehran from its course of uranium conversion and enrichment.


"China could help through vigorous enforcement of sanctions on
dual use technology and by urging full cooperation" with demands
by the UN Security Council, he told a Washington forum.


Zoellick said China's inclination might be to try to avoid
dealing with the "danger" posed by Iran because unlike North
Korea, it might seem far away.


In addition, he said, Iran was a large supplier of oil to China
with potential for Chinese investment.


"Yet, China should consider the systemic risks of Iran's
posture," he warned.


"If Iran develops nuclear weapons, the whole Persian Gulf region
will be endangered," he said.


Zoellick said that China could play an "influential role" by
encouraging Iranian leaders to "choose a path of integration, not
confrontation leading to isolation."


Beijing could let the Iranians know "quietly" that Iran will not
gain new foreign investments if it continued to defy UN action,
he said.


Zoellick said China also might believe that its internal security
measures had limited its risk as a target of nuclear armed
terrorists.


"But consider what will happen to the international economic
system -- from which China benefits enormously -- if terrorists
strike anywhere with weapons of mass destruction," he said.


"The flow of goods, capital, services, ideas, people and
information across borders -- upon which the globalized system
depends -- would come to a screeching halt."


Zoellick in a landmark speech in 2005 proposed that China
consider itself -- and be treated by other countries -- as a
"responsible stakeholder" in international system.


Officials from the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United
States -- plus Germany were to meet this week to discuss their
next moves on Tehran's controversial uranium enrichment program.


Iran is under UN sanctions due to nuclear activities that have
fuelled fears that it is seeking to build atomic weapons.

