

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice lost yet another senior
aide on Wednesday when Dina Habib Powell, the highest-ranking
Arab-American in the US government, announced her resignation to
join a Wall Street investment bank.


The departure of Powell, key architect of a Rice initiative to
improve the United States' image abroad, was the third senior
diplomat to quit in the past five days and the sixth so far this
year -- an exodus that is expected to continue in the final 20
months of the Bush administration.


Powell, who at 33 is also one of the youngest senior State
Department diplomats, is taking up a job at Goldman Sachs Group,
department spokesman Tom Casey said. She is due to leave her
State Department job in about two months.


Powell, whose parents emigrated from Egypt to Texas when she was
a child, followed Rice to the State Department two years ago from
the White House, where she directed the presidential personnel
office.


As the assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural
affairs, Powell also served as the deputy to Undersecretary of
State Karen Hughes, President George W. Bush's former media guru
who has been leading a "public diplomacy" campaign to counter
anti-Americanism in the Arab world since the US invasion of Iraq.


Powell said her decision to leave government at this time was
personal.


"It's the right time for me and my family," Powell told The
Washington Post.


"I'm really sorry to lose her. She is fantastic," Rice told the
Post of Powell's resignation.


"She had so many ideas. There are people who have ideas but can't
execute them. She really executed them," Rice said.


Powell was notably instrumental in creating public-private
partnerships to help fund relief efforts, notably in Lebanon
following the July-August 2006 war between Israel and the
Lebanese militia, Hezbollah -- a conflict which fuelled anger in
the region against the United States for its backing of Israel.


"Dina's really done a remarkable job for us in helping to build
and expand our educational and cultural programs, particularly in
working on developing public and private sector partnerships,"
Casey said.


Powell also managed to resurrect people-to-people exchanges with
Iran at a time of high tension between the two states due to
Tehran's nuclear program and alleged support for militants in
Iran, Lebanon and the Palestinian areas.


"She restarted exchanges with Iran in ways that I thought not
possible," Rice said, pointing to programs that saw Iranian
doctors visit the United States and a US wrestling team travel to
Iran.


News of Powell's resignation followed that of Barry Lowenkron,
assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and
labor, who announced on Monday that he was quitting to join a
private charitable foundation.


Friday, one of Rice's two deputies, foreign aid director Randall
Tobias, quit after being named in the media as a client of a
Washington DC call-girl ring.


Since the start of the year, Rice has also lost her private
counselor, Philip Zelikow, planning director Stephen Krasner,
former UN ambassador John Bolton and non-proliferation chief Bob
Joseph.


A senior State Department official indicated that the spate of
resignations could continue as Bush nears the end of his mandate
in January 2009.


"It's only natural as you get towards the end of the second term
that people are going to be moving on," he said. "The secretary
understands."

