

Early general elections to end the political crisis in Turkey
will be held on July 22, nearly a month later than originally
suggested by the ruling party, parliament's constitutional
committe said Wednesday.


The committee's proposal will have to be voted into law by the
parliament to become official, but this should be a simple
formality since all parties represented in the house favour the
snap vote.


The date was determined by Turkey's Electoral Council, which is
responsible for organising elections, as the earliest possible
date for a "healthy" vote to take place.


The governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) of Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had earlier on Wednesday suggested
June 24 for the vote, which was originally scheduled for November
4.


But Muammer Aydin, the head of the Electoral Council, told the
constitutional committee that July 22 was the earliest possible
date his organisation could prepare the vote, the Anatolia news
agency reported.


Government spokesman Cemil Cicek, who is also the justice
minister, said July 22 was "acceptable" for the government, but
Erdogan did not appear too pleased.


"They (the Electoral Council) first said something like 60 days,
now they are saying 80 days," he grumbled when questioned by
reporters as he left AKP headquarters.


But, he said, "if they cannot bring it (the date) any further
forward, we say the earliest date possible."


"The Electoral Council... prepared a calendar," Aydin explained.
"We took May 4 as our starting date and determined that we will
be able to hold elections on July 22."


The AKP decided on the snap poll to end a crisis sparked by an
apparently deadlocked, conflict-ridden presidential election and
seething tensions between the Islamist-rooted government and the
secularist army.


Had the elections been held on the scheduled date of November 4,
Aydin said, the Council would have prepared them in 109 days.


The previous general election in 2002 was organized in 89 days
and this time, he said, "we gave ourselves 80 days."


"This is as short as we can make it," Aydin said.

