

Britain on Wednesday called on the Sudanese government to arrest
and hand over two men wanted by the International Criminal Court
over the violent conflict in the western Sudanese region of
Darfur.


International human rights group Amnesty International also
joined calls for Sudan to surrender Ahmed Haroun, Sudan's
secretary of state for humanitarian affairs and former minister
in charge of Darfur, and Ali Kosheib, a principal leader of the
Khartoum-backed Janjaweed militia.


They face a list of 42 and 50 charges of crimes against humanity
and war crimes respectively.


"Some crimes ... are so serious as to make them of concern to the
international community as a whole," said David Triesman,
Britain's minister for Africa, in a statement released by the
foreign ministry.


"There can be no impunity for crimes against humanity and war
crimes. Where national governments cannot or will not act, those
most responsible for such crimes must be prosecuted at the
international level.


"I call, therefore, on the government of Sudan to co-operate with
the court's request for the arrest and surrender of Haroun and
Kosheib."


Triesman added that work must continue to address the
humanitarian crisis in Darfur, calling on the government and
rebel movements to abide by previous agreements and accept a
beefed-up African Union-UN peacekeeping force there.


Meanwhile, London-based Amnesty International in a statement
"urged the Sudanese government to immediately arrest the two and
hand them over to the court in The Hague."


"The UN Security Council must now demand that Sudan -- or any
other state in whose territory the two suspects are found --
arrest and surrender them immediately," said Erwin van der
Borght, director of Amnesty's Africa Programme.


"It is no longer seen to be enough to just conduct political
negotiations over strengthening the current peacekeeping force in
Darfur and try to further peace talks."


According to the United Nations, some 200,000 people have been
killed and two million forced to flee their homes since the start
of the Darfur conflict, now in its fifth year. Sudan says that
only 9,000 have died.

