

Los Angeles police chief William Bratton on Wednesday promised an
investigation into clashes that marred immigration protests,
suggesting there had been "inappropriate" behavior by officers.


Television images showed baton-wielding police in riot gear
clubbing journalists and firing rubber bullets after scuffles
broke out following a day-long rally involving several thousand
protesters on Tuesday.


Around 10 protesters suffered minor injuries, Los Angeles Fire
Department officials told local media, while police said 15
officers were hurt.


Bratton, who was appointed five years ago with a brief to clean
up the Los Angeles Police Department's image, said he would seek
to hold an "open" internal inquiry into the violence.


Bratton also hinted that after watching footage of the incident
police may have over-reacted.


"Some of what I've seen as chief of the department does not look
appropriate," Bratton told local radio station KNX.


Bratton described the disturbances as "a series of very fluid
events -- there were multiple things going on."


He said the Police Commission would be "fully involved in terms
of staying abreast of it ... and we'll try to do this as openly
as we can."


Television reports showed a police officer knocking down a
cameraman, then grabbing the camera and tossing it to the ground.


Los Angeles mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said in a statement an
investigation was under way. "I have reviewed the extensive video
of the incident, and like every Angeleno, I am obviously and
deeply concerned," he said.


"Any time that our law enforcement officials employ force, the
public has an absolute and unqualified right to expect and demand
an aggressive review of the facts.


The police tactics were meanwhile condemned by the Radio and
Television News Association (RTNA).


"There is evidence that officers knocked reporters to the ground,
used batons on photographers and damaged cameras, possibly
motivated by anger over journalists photographing efforts by
officers to control the movements of marchers," an RTNA statement
said.

