

Businesses were counting the cost on Wednesday of a three-day
power cut in one of South Africa's biggest malls which has
already forced shopowners to bin millions of dollars worth of
stock.


Engineers were still struggling on Wednesday evening to restore
power to the upmarket suburb of Bedfordview, home to the giant
Eastgate mall, after the lights went out early Monday morning due
to faulty cables.


Even though the national electricity supplier Eskom was confident
power would soon be restored, furious businesses are already
contemplating how to recover their losses.


"We have not been able to trade over the past three days. This
has had a tremendous effect on tenants ... our valuable shoppers
have been equally inconvenienced," Errol Taylor, manager of the
Eastgate centre, told AFP.


"At this stage we just want to get over this, get the power back,
and then we will talk about compensation."


The centre is home to a number of supermarkets and dozens of
restaurants and cafes who have had to chuck rotting food away.


Ingo Rabsch, owner of the Mugg and Bean coffee house, told The
Star newspaper that they had binned 500 litres of milk, 300
litres of ice cream and 85 litres of cream.


Eskom spokesman Fani Zulu said the problem had been caused by
damage to two underground cables during recent construction work
on speed cameras, denying that ageing infrastructure was to
blame.


"These damages were due to the third party interference," he told
AFP.


Zulu did not rule out Eskom compensating those who have suffered
losses.


"Our approach is that they should proceed and submit their claims
which we will deal with on their merit after our investigation.


"There is a legal process to be followed, but in terms of our
contract, we do not guarantee a 100-percent supply of power all
the time," he added.


Eskom, which enjoys a virtual monopoly of the electricity market
in South Africa, is a regular target for complaints over the
level of outages, including a widespread blackout in January at
the height of summer.

