

The US military has opened no formal investigation into official
reports of dozens of civilian deaths in fighting in western
Afghanistan that involved US special forces, a Pentagon spokesman
said Wednesday.


Afghan and UN investigators counted about 50 civilian dead,
including women and children, in the clashes last Friday and on
Sunday in the Shindand district of Afghanistan's Herat province.


But Colonel Gary Keck, a Pentagon spokesman, said the US military
on the ground had reported no civilian casualties up their chain
of command and so no investigation has been launched.


"There is no US investigation that I know of going on," Keck
said.


"It is my understanding that current reporting through
operational channels do not indicate that there were civilian
casualties. We continue to work it through operational channels,"
he said.


"We have not been able to confirm any of these civilian deaths
that have been reported," he said.


Angry protesters on Monday torched the Shindand government center
to protest the deaths of civilians in the fighting, which the US
military said erupted Friday after US special operations forces
and Afghan soldiers came under attack in the Zerkoh valley.


The US forces called in close air support on Friday. On Sunday, a
coalition aircraft dropped bombs on Taliban positions and an
AC-130 gunship fired on fleeing Taliban fighters, the military
said.


The US military said 136 Taliban "fighters" were killed in the
two engagements.


"Every precaution was taken to prevent injury to innocent Afghan
civilians during the two battles, and there were no civilian
injuries reported," the military said in a statement on Monday.


But a United Nations investigation has so far found that 49
civilians were killed in the fighting, UN spokesman Adrian
Edwards said in Kabul.


Afghan police found 51 were dead, western Afghanistan spokesman
Akramudin Yawar told AFP.


"The figures I have so far of the civilians killed in the three-
day operation in Shindand is that 51 civilians were killed
including 18 women and a number of children. I don't have the
exact figures for children," he said.


A team appointed by provincial governor Sayed Hussain Anwari
found 42 civilians were killed and 55 were wounded, said the
governor's spokeswoman Farzana Ahmadi.


The investigation team appointed by Anwari and made up of
councillors and other provincial authorities also found that
1,600 families had fled the area because of the fighting and 100
houses were damaged or destroyed, she said.

