

Estonia closed its consulate in Moscow on Wednesday after pro-
Kremlin youth activists scuffled with the ambassador's bodyguards
in protests over the relocation of a Soviet war memorial in
Tallinn.


"The consulate's business is stopped and we will not give visas
until the situation is normalised around the embassy," Ambassador
Marina Kaljurand said shortly after the Nashi (Ours) youth group
tried to disrupt her press conference.


Consulates in Pskov and Saint Petersburg would remain open, she
said.


Kaljurand said her bodyguards used pepper spray on members of the
Kremlin-backed Nashi group after they broke into the newspaper
offices where she was holding the press conference.


"There was an attack aimed at me, but no one got to me," she
said. "There was a fight between my guards and activists from the
Nashi organisation and the guards had to use gas."


The Estonian foreign ministry denounced the attack and called for
a swift international response.


"Physical attacks on the Estonian Republic's diplomatic
representative are unprecedented and absolutely unjustifiable.
These attacks call for immediate actions from the international
community," said the foreign ministry in Tallinn in a statement.


Kaljurand later told Estonian radio that family members of staff
had been evacuated from the embassy compound, though about 10
staff members remained.


The Estonian ambassador accused the Russian authorities of
failing "to guarantee the security of the embassy" as required
under international conventions.


An AFP reporter saw approximately 30 youths force their way into
the newspaper offices, shouting: "Fascist Estonia!"


Scuffles started and some form of pepper spray was released,
driving out those in the room.


Outside, youths from another government-backed group, Mestnye,
surrounded the ambassador's parked car and tore off its flag.
Police did not intervene.


Dozens of youths from Nashi and a third government-backed group,
Young Guard, were spending a sixth day camped outside the
embassy.


About 30 Nashi members on Wednesday briefly prevented the arrival
of a Swedish diplomatic vehicle at the embassy until police
pushed them aside. The youths again attempted to block the
Swedish embassy car as it left.


In Stockholm the foreign ministry said the car contained Swedish
ambassador to Russia Johan Molander, and that Sweden had
protested over the incident.


"The ambassador's car was stopped and attacked by a mob as he was
leaving the Estonian embassy. They kicked the car and tore off
the Swedish flag. The ambassador was not injured but the
atmosphere was very aggressive," Swedish foreign ministry
spokeswoman Sofia Karlberg told AFP.


"Russian police intervened too late and in an insufficient
manner," the ministry said.


Shortly afterwards, an unmarked car hindered the exit of an
Estonian diplomatic vehicle. Riot police dragged the driver from
the car and forced him into a police vehicle.


On Tuesday, the embassy's flag was pulled down.


Estonia's President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has described the
embassy protests as "psycho-terror."


Russian foreign ministry spokesman Mikhail Kamynin, however, said
"all the blame for what is happening around the Estonian embassy
lies fully on the Estonian side, which took the decision to move
the monument," RIA Novosti reported.


The activists say they are protesting against Estonia's
relocation of the Bronze Soldier World War II monument from
central Tallinn to a military cemetery.


The Estonian government has called for help from the rest of the
European Union and claims that the Russian authorities are
fomenting unrest in the former Soviet republic.


On Wednesday the European Commission urged Russia to end the
blockade and said it wanted to send an EU delegation to raise the
issue with Russian authorities.


Many Estonians see the monument as a symbol of Soviet occupation,
which lasted five decades after the Red Army drove Nazi Germany's
army out of the Baltics.

