

Paramilitary police forces on the Comoros island of Anjouan
attacked the federal offices in the island's capital with heavy
weapons on Wednesday, a Comoros official said.


The federal respresentative on the restive island, Anissi
Chamsidine, said the Comoros army had to evacuate the building as
it came under attack from police loyal to the island's outgoing
president.


"We had to be evacuated by the Comoros army but it needs
reinforcements. The police are firing shells," Chamsidine told
AFP.


There was no immediate report of any casualties.


Schools, shops and government offices closed in the morning as
federal army forces deployed earlier in the day at key buildings
including those housing the local interior and finance
ministries.


The island's airport was also closed and men loyal to outgoing
Anjouan president Mohamed Bacar blocked all main roads leading to
the capital.


Bacar seized power on the island in August 2001. He was elected
president in March the following year for a five-year term.


Last week, the Comoros' constitutional court ruled that he had
served his term and nominated an interim president to serve until
elections in June when all three Comoros islands are to elect
their respective presidents.


On Tuesday, the interim president nominated by the court, Kaabi
Houmadi, unveiled his cabinet prompting Bacar's government to
denounce the move.


Comoros has endured 19 coups or attempted coups since gaining
independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of Anjouan
and Moheli declared independence from Comoros, the main island in
the archipelago.


Two years later, military chief Colonel Assoumani Azali seized
power pledging to resolve the secessionist crisis through a
confederal arrangement known as the 2000 Fomboni Accord.


In December 2001, voters approved a new constitution and
presidential elections took place in the spring of 2002. Each
island in the archipelago elected its own president and a new
union president took office in May 2002.


The current union president, Ahmed Abdallah Sambi, assumed office
in May last year.

