

The United States called on Russia Wednesday to back off an
escalating dispute with Estonia that saw pro-Kremlin militants
attack the former Soviet republic's consulate in Moscow.


Estonia closed the consulate after youth activists who had been
blockading the diplomatic compound for days scuffled with the
ambassador's bodyguards Wednesday in the latest in a series of
protests over the relocation of a Soviet war memorial in Tallinn,
the Estonian capital.


"We are concerned ... by reports of violence and harassment,
including harassment of Estonian diplomatic personnel and
premises in Moscow," State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey
said.


"We all want to see this situation de-escalate," Casey told
reporters.


"We also urge authorities in Moscow to do everything possible to
reduce tensions and carry out their responsibilities under the
Vienna Convention concerning diplomatic premises and diplomats,
and avoid harsh words and escalation," he said.


Earlier Wednesday, Estonian Prime Minister Andrus Ansip appealed
to fellow members of the European Union for help in countering
what he called a multi- pronged attack from its giant neighbor.


"A physical attack against the Ambassador of Estonia to Moscow...
cyber-attacks from the servers of Russian state authorities...
delegates of the Russian Duma calling for a change of government
in Estonia, all indicate that our sovereign state is under heavy
attack," Ansip told parliament.


The crisis began last week when the Estonian authorities moved a
Soviet war memorial from the center of Tallinn to a military
cemetery.


The statue is seen by Russians, including the large minority that
lives in Estonia, as a sacred memorial to Red Army soldiers who
fell in World War II.


Estonians view it as a painful reminder of half a century of
Soviet occupation marked by mass deportations and other rights
abuses.


While expressing understanding for the "emotions involved" in the
dispute on both sides, Casey said the ways Estonia "deals with
its history, its legacy and some of the internal issues there are
really for Estonians to decide."


"Other people shouldn't be, frankly, engaged or trying to manage
that process from outside the country."

