

Italian cyclist Michele Scarponi has agreed to give a DNA sample
to the Italian Olympic Commitee (CONI), investigating his
implication in the Operation Puerto doping affair which erupted
last May.


Former Astana rider Scarponi, now with the Acqua and Sapone team,
said: "Nothing new happened, I notified them of my availability
for a DNA test.


"I said what I knew. I'm optimistic and very calm," Scarponi said
after 90 minutes spent at CONI headquarters here.


"They didn't hit me with anything new but I was called here
because last year I was registered in Spain (with the Liberty
Seguros team that became Astana) while in 2007 I'm back in Italy.


"I therefore had to be heard for the first time by the anti-
doping public prosecutor," said Scarponi, who was accompanied by
two lawyers and Palmiro Masciarelli, manager of the Acqua and
Sapone team.


The 27-year-old Scarponi won the International Coppi and Bartali
Week stage race at the end of March.


CONI later put back a hearing into Tour of Italy winner Ivan
Basso, who has parted with his team Discovery Channel, to an
undetermined date, his lawyer Massimo Martelli said.


"The hearing has been put back to a yet-to-be-fixed date,"
Martelli said, adding that his client was "calm" during the
almost-two hours spent at CONI. "He replied to the questions".


"We have nothing to complain about concerning the athlete's
behaviour," said Fabio Filocamo, the spokesman for the
prosecutor.


"We hope that he will show himself to be as cooperative during
the rest of the investigation," said Filocamo, adding that Basso
was not asked to provide a DNA sample.


CONI are taking a closer look at what role, if any, both riders
played in the affair which initially implicated 58 cyclists from
a reported total of 200 athletes.


A CONI statement said Thursday Scarponi had been called to the
hearing "following the reopening of the investigation into
Operation Puerto".


CONI added: "He is suspected of having violated article 2.2 of
the World Anti Doping Code on the use and attempted use of
illegal substances or methods."


The affair erupted in May 2006 after a raid on the premises of
Spanish doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


Madrid police uncovered bags of blood and doping products, along
with codenames of cyclists and documents which pointed to
organised doping.


Investigators in Germany recently confirmed that blood attributed
to Jan Ullrich during Operation Puerto, thanks to a specific but
ultimately inefficient codename, turned out to match a DNA sample
from the German.


Ullrich, the 1997 Tour de France winner, has proclaimed his
innocence and since retired from the sport.

