

A World Bank panel took no action after a meeting on alleged
ethics breaches by World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz but said
it would "expeditiously" prepare a report for the board of
directors.


The statement by an investigatory committee came after the
embattled World Bank chief said he was the victim of a "smear
campaign" by critics who wanted him out of the job.


The panel late Tuesday offered no new conclusions on the
allegations that Wolfowitz improperly pushed a generous bank pay
deal for his girlfriend.


But the committee said it "has continued its work, taking it
forward in an orderly manner, with fair process and careful
deliberation."


The ad hoc group said it "has completed an additional round of
interviews with the people involved and received a number of
statements" and would "now draw its conclusions" and
"expeditiously prepare its report" to the lender's executive
directors.


Appearing in a meeting in Brussels Wednesday, Wolfowitz brushed
aside suggestions about his leaving the post.


"The board is considering this issue," he said. "We need to
follow due process and in the meantime we need to stay focused on
the very, very important work at the bank and we are doing that."


Wolfowitz on Monday signaled his intention to fight the charges
against him as he denounced a campaign mounted by his critics.


"The goal of this smear campaign, I believe, is to create a self-
fulfilling prophecy that I am an ineffective leader and must step
down for that reason alone," he said in a statement also released
to the media.


"I, for one, will not give into such tactics. And, I will not
resign in the face of a plainly bogus charge of conflict of
interest."


At issue is the firestorm linked to the pay deal for Wolfowitz's
girlfriend, Shaha Riza, who got her salary boosted to nearly
200,000 dollars when she was reassigned from the bank to work at
the US State Department.


Wolfowitz told the panel he had acted in good faith in the Riza
case, on the advice of the bank's ethics committee, in trying to
resolve a potential conflict of interest between himself and Riza
after he became president in June 2005.


But a statement Tuesday from Ad Melkert, former chair of the
ethics committee of the World Bank board, disputed the version of
events presented by Wolfowitz.


"Contrary to Mr. Wolfowitz's statement (to the board) ... the
(ethics) committee did not 'decide' that Ms. Riza should be
relocated outside the bank," Melkert said, although it did
recommend that she be moved to a position "beyond the supervising
influence" of the bank chief.


Melkert said he rejected "any direct or indirect suggestion" that
his panel was aware of or should have been aware of the contract
given to the Libyan-born Riza.


US President George W. Bush on Monday repeated his support for
Wolfowitz.

