

World oil prices dropped more than a dollar on Wednesday after
news that US gasoline or petrol stockpiles fell by less than
market expectations, traders said.


Gasoline stockpiles are in focus ahead of the peak-demand holiday
driving season in the United States, which starts at the end of
May. This sees many Americans take to the roads -- putting
gasoline supplies under pressure.


In London on Wednesday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for
June delivery slumped 1.22 dollars to 65.78 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, tumbled 1.15 dollars to 63.25 dollars per
barrel in floor trading.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) announced Wednesday that
gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million in
the week ending April 27.


However, the reading beat analysts' consensus forecasts for a
heavier drop of 1.3 million barrels. It also marked the 12th
weekly decline in a row.


As a result, US petrol stocks have fallen by 34.1 million barrels
since the start of February.


Added to the picture, the DoE said that American refineries
ratcheted up their gasoline production last week.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish said that US demand would
remain high throughout the driving season as refiners rushed to
convert enough crude oil into gasoline.


"Tightness in upgrading refining capacity, unplanned outages,
increasingly scarce crude supplies, and possible disruptions as
we enter the hurricane season, are all set to take part in
keeping gasoline prices firmly underpinned throughout the peak
summer demand season," Norrish said.


In other data, the DoE said that US crude oil reserves increased
by 1.1 million barrels to 335.6 million barrels last week. That
undershot forecasts for a rise of 1.5 million.


Despite concerns over stockpiles, oil producers' cartel OPEC said
Wednesday it saw no need to increase output, even as the
International Energy Agency (IEA), the consumers watchdog,
stressed the need to pump more crude.


"The market is stable," Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries secretary general Abdullah el-Badri said.


"I think maybe in June we will review the market to see if we
need more oil or not. But I don't think we need it," Badri told
reporters on the sidelines of a meeting for Asian energy
ministers when asked if OPEC must pump more crude to ease prices.


But IEA chief Claude Mandil warned there was a supply shortage
which required producers to hike output.


"At present, there is a lack of crude because we see crude stocks
not increasing whereas they should increase at this time of the
year," Mandil said.


Mandil also called on oil producers to invest in the oil sector
to increase spare production capacity which would eventually ease
pressure on prices.

