

Ghana on Wednesday became the eighth African country to report a
case of the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus in poultry.


Agriculture Minister Ernest Debrah told journalists the case was
detected on April 24 on a farm near Tema, a port city to the east
of the capital Accra.


The strain of the virus was proven by tests carried out in Ghana,
in a specialized laboratory in Italy and at the US Navy Research
Centre in Cairo, Egypt, he said.


Veterinary officials "went to the farm and took immediate
measures to prevent the spread of the disease. A complete ban was
placed on the movement of poultry and poultry products out of the
farm," Debrah said.


Some 1,700 birds were culled on and around the premises, he
added.


The minister said the team was still conducting investigations to
determine how the H5N1 virus strain had entered the farm.


"The team has heightened surveillance and testing on suspicious
birds and is working to ensure any potential cases are found,"
Debrah said.


The World Health Organisation issues frequent warnings about the
importance of strengthening surveillance systems so that bird flu
cases can be detected early and appropriate measures can be taken
to avoid the spread of the virus.


In Africa, Egypt, Ivory Coast, Cameroon, Djibouti, Burkina Faso,
Niger and Nigeria have all reported cases of H5N1 in poultry.


Ghana banned poultry imports from nine Asian nations, and Taiwan,
as early as January 2004 in a bid to prevent bird flu from
entering the country.


Nearby Nigeria, which reported its first case of H5N1 in February
2006, recorded its first human death from the virus strain less
than a year later.


Agyen Frempong, director of Ghana's veterinary services on
Wednesday said the risk of human infection in the country
remained low for the moment.


"The risk is there but for the moment it is quite low," he said.


The WHO has warned that while humans have so far only caught the
deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu through contact with infected
birds or their droppings, it could claim millions of lives if it
mutates into a form that can be spread among humans.

