

A US commission called Wednesday for Vietnam to be reinstated on
Washington's blacklist of countries violating religious freedoms,
as other Asian countries including China and Indonesia also were
sharply criticized for serious abuses.


"We recommend that Vietnam be re-designated as a CPC (country of
particular concern) in 2007," the US Commission on International
Religious Freedom wrote in its annual report.


It said that since Hanoi was taken off the blacklist in November
2006 and it joined the WTO "positive religious freedom trends
have, for the most part stalled" amid a crackdown on human rights
activists.


The authoritarian Southeast Asian nation was taken off the US
State Department's list of countries of particular concern on the
eve of a visit to Hanoi by President George W. Bush.


The commission also recommended that 10 other countries be kept
on the list: China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar,
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.


The commission condemned a lack of religious freedom in Saudi
Arabia, where the government persists in "interfering with
private religious practice," and where "all forms of public
religious expression other than that of the government's own
interpretation of one form of Sunni Islam" is banned.


The report said that Riyadh continues to finance activities
around the world that support religious intolerance, and violence
toward non-Muslims and Muslims who are out-of-favor.


China, the commission wrote, engages in serious restrictions,
even repression, of religious freedoms, particularly toward
Tibetan Buddhists, Uighur Muslims, Christians and adherents to
spiritual practices like Falun Gong.


Abuse of religious freedoms "involve imprisonment, torture, and
other forms of ill treatment," the panel wrote.


"Religious freedom conditions deteriorated for communities not
affiliated with any of the seven government-approved religious
organizations, those considered by the government to be 'cults,'
and those closely associated with ethnic minority groups in
China."


Myanmar's military regime has supported, allowed or instigated
violence against religions minorities, particularly Christians
and Muslims, the commission concluded.


Violations of religious freedoms in Indonesia meanwhile, were
deemed worrisome enough to warrant its inclusion on a "watchlist"
of countries requiring close monitoring.


Although the situation in Indonesia has improved somewhat, the
commission expressed concern over "ongoing sectarian violence and
the Indonesian government's inability or unwillingness to hold
those responsible to account."


The panel also decried "the forcible closures of places of
worship belonging to religious minorities, and the growing
political power and influence of religious extremists, who harass
and sometimes instigate violence against moderate Muslim leaders
and members of religious minorities."


Iraq, Afghanistan, Belarus, Egypt, Bangladesh, Cuba and Nigeria
also were included on the watchlist this year.


Writing about Vietnam, the commission voiced disappointment at
the decision "citing continued arrests and detentions of
individuals in part because of their religious activities and
continued severe religious freedom restrictions targeting some
ethnic minority Protestants and Buddhists."


It recognized there had been positive religious freedom
developments by the ruling Communist Party with the release of
prominent religious prisoners and the end to enforced
renunciations of faith.


But the panel found that such improvements had been
"insufficient" and that it was "too soon to determine if the
legal protections would be permanent and whether such progress
would last beyond Vietnam's accession to the World Trade
Organization."

