

News Corp., which offered five billion dollars Tuesday to buy
financial news group Dow Jones, is a global media and
entertainment giant built takeover by takeover by its founder,
Rupert Murdoch.


An Australian who became a US citizen in the 1980s to better
realize his dream of empire, Murdoch, 76, started in the
newspaper business in the early 1950s through an inheritance from
his father.


By the 1960s, the aggressive businessman was taking on the
British press.


Among his conquests were The Sun, the most popular British
tabloid, The Times, The Sunday Times and News of the World. On
other continents, Murdoch snapped up The Australian in his native
country, and the New York Post, constructing a press fortress
that today is 175 titles strong.


In the United States, his 24-hour Fox News Channel, which during
the Iraq war beat prime rival CNN in audience ratings, is seen as
overtly supported the Republican administration of President
George W. Bush.


Elsewhere in the television sector, News Corp. is a major player
in satellite- broadcasting in Europe -- BSkyB in Britain, Sky
Italia in Italy -- and in Asia with its Star network.


Murdoch also owns book publisher HarperCollins and, through its
Fox division, owns Hollywood film studio 20th Century Fox,
producer of such global blockbusters as the "Star Wars" series
and "Titanic."


In July 2005, Murdoch ventured into cyberspace, buying the
Internet social- networking site MySpace for 580 million dollars.


A year later, faced with MySpace's skyrocketing popularity,
search-engine giant Google agreed to pay MySpace 900 million
dollars for an exclusive deal to provide search and advertising.


News Corp., which reincorporated in New York in 2004, today has a
market capitalization of 70 billion dollars.


At the close of its 2005-2006 business year, which ended June 30,
the company reported sales of 25.33 billion dollars, a gain of
6.1 percent from the previous year.


In the most recent October-December quarter the group saw a
profit of 822 million dollars on revenues of 7.84 billion
dollars.

