

The Dutch retail giant Ahold said Wednesday it planned to sell
its US division US Foodservice, to private equity funds Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice (CD&R) and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR)
for 7.1 billion dollars (5.2 billion euros).


US Foodservice was at the centre of an accounting scandal that
broke in 2003 which sent Ahold's share prices plummeting and
Ahold has been seeking to sell it off.


The sale is expected to be submitted to shareholders for vote at
an extraordinary general assembly on June 19 and will be
completed in the second half of the year, Ahold said in a
statement.


Ahold had said in November that it wanted to sell US Foodservice,
the second biggest US food distribution firm, which increased
sales in 2006 by 4.1 percent to 19.2 billion euros, thereby
acounting for nearly half of total group sales.


US Foodservice made an operating profit last year of 258 million
euros from 86 million euros in 2005. Its operating margin was 1.7
percent.


In February 2003 Ahold said it had found apparent accounting
irregularities to the amount of several hundred million euros in
the operation of US Foodservice.


Dutch and American shareholders filed lawsuits against Ahold, one
of the world's largest retailers, but finally settled with the
company in November 2005.


In March Ahold reported a profits leap and surprised analysts
with the extent of its recovery from the financial scandal and
heavy provisions.


The group said that overall net profit last year rose six-fold to
915 million euros (1.2 billion dollars) from 146 million euros in
2005 when it provisioned 803 million euros in connection with the
accounting scandal.


The group has said that it would not pay a dividend to holders of
non-preference shares in line with its practice since the
financial scandal in 2003.


It has also said it would increase a programme to buy back its
own shares from two billion to three billion euros, in relation
to the disposal of US Foodservice.


KKR is also poised to seize control of British pharmacy giant
Alliance Boots, with a 22-billion-dollar bid that would be
Europe's largest private-equity takeover.

