

Bigfoot, the legendary hairy man-like beast said to roam the
wildernesses of North America, is not shy, merely so rare it
risks extinction and should be protected as an endangered
species.


So says Canadian MP Mike Lake who has called for Bigfoot to be
protected under Canada's species at risk act, alongside Whooping
Cranes, Blue Whales, and Red Mulberry trees.


"The debate over their (Bigfoot's) existence is moot in the
circumstance of their tenuous hold on merely existing," reads a
petition presented by Lake to parliament in March and due to be
discussed next week.


"Therefore, the petitioners request the House of Commons to
establish immediate, comprehensive legislation to affect
immediate protection of Bigfoot," says the petition signed by
almost 500 of Lake's constituents in Edmonton, Alberta.


A similar appeal has been made to the US Congress.


Down through history, there have been numerous, if
unsubstantiated sightings of Bigfoot, also known as Sasquatch in
North American folklore.


The beast is said to inhabit remote forests, mainly in the US
Pacific northwest and western Canada, and many believe it could
be related to the equally mythical Yeti said to have found its
home in Tibet and Nepal.


While sometimes described as large, hairy bipedal hominoids,
Bigfoot are considered by most experts to be a combination of
folklore and hoaxes.


But the legend remains strong, and Bigfoot researcher Todd
Standing, who was behind the petition, claims to have proof of
its existence, and says he fears for its safety.


"When I get species protection for them nationwide, I will make
my findings public and I will take this out of the realm of
mythology. Bigfoot is real," Standing told Global National
television news.


He said he has 12 seconds of video footage of Bigfoot roaming
Canada's western Rocky Mountains included in a 30-minute
documentary, but his detractors say it was staged with actors.


His supporters hail from Canada's westernmost provinces, but
Bigfoot sightings have been reported across the country, which is
90 percent uninhabited.


There are currently 516 plant and animal species at risk in
Canada, according to Environment Canada. Another 13 species are
already extinct.

