

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday slammed
a Constitutional Court decision to annul the first-round vote in
the presidential election as "a bullet fired at democracy," but
then backed down saying his remarks were not aimed at the court.


"We respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, (but) it
will be much debated from the legal point of view," Erdogan told
members of his Justice and Development Party in parliament.


"The election of a president in parliament has been blocked, the
election of presidents has been made almost impossible in future
parliaments from now on.


"And you know what is it at the same time? It is a bullet fired
at democracy," he said.


His remarks prompted a strong response from the Constitutional
Court, which warned that the prime minister was committing a
crime by criticising court rulings.


Erdogan's remarks are "irresponsible, go beyond their original
intent and turn the institution into a target," the court
statement said.


The court Tuesday cancelled the first-round vote in Turkey's
turbulent presidential elections on the grounds that the
550-member parliament started voting without the required quorum
of a two-thirds majority.


Questioned by reporters about the court's reaction, Erdogan said
his words were aimed not at the tribunal, but at Deniz Baykal.
Baykal is the chairman of the main opposition Republican People's
Party (CHP), which had petitioned the court to annul the vote.


Baykal had said ahead of the ruling that Turkey would plunge into
conflict if the court did not cancel the vote.


"My words were directed completely at Mr. Baykal," the Anatolia
news agency quoted Erdogan as saying. "Why would I otherwise say
that I respect the ruling? ... The ruling has been made, we must
respect it."


In its statement Wednesday, the court also criticised Baykal's
remarks.


Both statements violated the independence of the judiciary and
were crimes under the penal code, it said.


The CHP had petitioned the court with the intention of blocking
the election of the sole presidential candidate, Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, and forcing early elections. They object to Gul
because of his Islamist background.


Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP), the moderate
offshoot of a now- banned Islamist movement, holds the majority
in parliament with 351 members. But it does not have the two-
thirds majority of 367 that the court said was required for
voting to begin in Friday's session.


The opposition had boycotted the vote.


Following Tuesday's ruling, the AKP called for early general
elections in June and said it would also submit a package of
constitutional amendments, including a far-reaching reform for a
popular vote to elect the president.

