

The board of European aerospace group EADS is set for a stormy
meeting with shareholders in Amsterdam on Friday amid allegations
of insider trading and a controversial golden parachute granted
to former chief executive Noel Forgeard.


The 8.5-million-euro severance package for Forgeard, who stood
down as co-chief executive of the European aerospace group last
year, has raised the ire of shareholders and has been criticised
by both candidates in this weekend's French presidential
election.


The payoff has also annoyed workers at embattled plane
manufacturer Airbus, an EADS subsidiary, where workers have
mounted work stoppages for the past week at several of the
manufacturer's main plants.


EADS, which has helicopter, space and defence assets as well as
Airbus, reported net profit of 99 million euros in 2006 compared
to 1.676 billion euros (2.27 billion dollars) in 2005.


The collapse in profits was mainly due to problems at Airbus
which made an operating loss of 572 million euros against a 2.307
-billion-euro profit in 2005, due to production delays with its
A380 superjumbo plane.


Insider trading allegations are also expected to weigh heavily on
the meeting after French police decided to question several
executives at EADS last week over share sales a year ago.


The investigation centres on a period shortly before EADS
surprised the stock market and customers with revelations that it
faced serious production problems with its star product, the
Airbus A380.


The announcement caused a crisis at EADS, sparking boardroom
upheavals and controversy over the sale of shares in preceding
months by big shareholders and of stock options by top
executives.


The crisis at Airbus has led to the formulation of a rescue plan
involving the loss of 10,000 jobs.


In December, investigators raided the headquarters in France of
EADS and media and defence group Lagardere, a key shareholder.


The investigation arises from allegations that several senior
executives with the European Aeronautics Defence and Space
company sold shares before the price of EADS stock fell sharply.


It is alleged that they sold shares on the privileged knowledge
that a few weeks later the group would announce delays in
deliveries of the A380 and that this would drive down the shares.


In the middle of June 2006, the day after new delays for the A380
were announced, the price of EADS stock crashed by 26 percent in
a single day.


The previous month, Forgeard had sold 162,000 euros, generating a
capital gain of 2.5 million euros. Fellow board member Jean-Paul
Gut sold 75,000 shares for a gain of 1.15 million euros.


There is also expected to be a heated debate at the general
assembly over whether to pay a dividend, after EADS directors
last month said they had failed to decide on the matter.


If all of the 2006 net profit were redistributed to shareholders
it would represent a dividend of 0.12 euros per share, against
0.65 euros in 2005.


But the controlling EADS shareholders, German automaker
DaimlerChrysler, French media and technology group Lagardere and
the French state have been at loggerheads over whether to pay a
dividend.


The French government has opposed rewarding shareholders, given
the dramatic fall in profits and thousands of job losses planned
at Airbus this year.


The European Aeronautics Defence and Space Company (EADS) is set
for a stormy general assembly of shareholders in Amsterdam on
Friday, amid allegations of insider trading and a controversial
golden handshake for a former chief.

