

Czech lawmakers Wednesday voted to create a new institute to
tackle the still- sensitive issue of the country's totalitarian
past by examining thousands of files from both the Nazi and
communist periods.


Lower house lawmakers backed a proposal to found an Institute for
National Memory charged with organising and studying documents
from the Nazi occupation of the country from 1939-45 and the
communist regime from 1948-1989.


The move, 17 years after the bloodless Velvet Revolution toppled
the Soviet-bloc communist regime, forms part of the new centre-
right government's "Open Past" project. It will try to shed light
on the 15 kilometres (9.3 miles) of files of communist secret
police files.


That original project has been widened to include the years of
the Nazi occupation, along the same lines of a similar
institution created in 2002 in neighbouring Slovakia.


But the change has failed to completely still the political
controversy surrounding the project.


Deputies from the main left-wing opposition Social Democrats
boycotted Wednessday's vote, while the communist party voted
against its creation. Of the 118 deputies present, 92 voted in
favour.


Social Democrat leaders say the new institution runs the risk of
being used for political purposes to tarnish opponents.


Czech society has been divided over the moves to open up the
communist secret police files.


But some observers have warned of their unreliability.


They argue that part of the problem was the willingness of police
officers to make up details of their collaborators and the help
they had given to put themselves in a better light.


But Pavel Zacek, the recently installed head of the interior
ministry archives, where the communist-era secret police files
are housed, has argued for the files to opened.


He says that Czechs should be allowed access to the documents so
they can come to terms with their painful past.


"People who requested documents were told in the past that they
would have to wait three years for them or that it was simply
possible not to see them," Zacek told AFP earlier this year.


Eight staff with connections to the former secret police, who
were more interested in keeping documents under wraps than
revealing them, were dismissed in November after he took up his
new post, Zacek added.


The new institution still requires approval from the Czech upper
house, the Senate, and Czech President Vaclav Klaus.

