

A Zimbabwean court will decide next Wednesday whether a Briton
serving a jail term in Harare over a foiled coup in Equatorial
Guinea should be extradited to the west African country.


Mann is due to be released next month, but the Equatorial Guinea
authorities want him to face another trial in Malabo.


State prosecutor Joseph Jagada on Wednesday urged the court to
order Mann's extradition, saying he had a case to answer there.


Harare magistrate Omega Mugumbate told the court after closing
addresses by Simon Mann's lawyer and prosecutors representing the
Equatorial Guinea government: "We meet on Wednesday next week."


Jagada had argued: "According to evidence given before this court
there was going to be a coup in Equatorial Guinea and Mr Simon
Mann was central to its planning and final implementation.


"From the evidence he has a case to answer in the Equatorial
Guinea court."


Mann's lawyer Jonathan Samkange called on the court to throw out
the extradition request. The government in Malabo had "failed
dismally" to prove a case against his client, he said.


He also expressed fears that Mann would be tortured if handed
over to the authorities in Equatorial Guinea.


"The court is obliged to discharge Simon Mann," Samkange said.


"It can only extradite if the requesting country established that
he has a case to answer. It's my humble submission that they have
failed dismally, so the case ends there."


Mann and 61 other men were arrested when their plane landed at
Harare international airport in March 2004.


They were said to have been stopping off to pick up weapons en
route to Malabo to join an advance team led by South African Nick
du Toit.


Du Toit has himself since been arrested and sentenced to 34 years
in prison in Malabo.


Mann said he and his co-accused were in transit to the Democratic
Republic of Congo when they were arrested in Harare.


The former officer in Britain's elite Special Air Service was
handed a seven- year term for the purchase of weapons to be used
to topple President Obiang Nguema, ruler of the oil-rich west
African state since 1979.


The sentence was later cut to four years.


Most of those arrested with Mann were released from a Zimbabwean
prison in 2005.

