

World oil prices dropped Wednesday, despite a decline in US
gasoline reserves, as traders bet on a buildup in stocks
following improvements in refining output.


Gasoline, or petrol, stockpiles are in focus ahead of the peak-
demand holiday driving season in the United States, which starts
at the end of May.


On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the main oil futures
contract, light sweet crude for delivery in June, shed 72 cents
to close at 63.68 dollars per barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
slipped 75 cents to settle at 66.25 dollars per barrel.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) announced Wednesday that
gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million in
the week ending April 27.


However, the reading beat analysts' consensus forecasts for a
heavier drop of 1.3 million barrels.


The price decline was "a bit exaggerated," said Antoine Halff, an
analyst at Fimat.


It also marked the 12th weekly decline in a row in gasoline
stocks, which have fallen by 34.1 million barrels since the start
of February.


Added to the picture, the DoE said that American refineries
ratcheted up their gasoline production last week by a half point
from the prior week, to 88.3 percent.


"The refinery rate remains very week for this time of year, but
the market perhaps had interpreted this figure as turning point
indicating a replenishment of gasoline stocks," Halff said.


Analysts at Man Financial warned that more robust gasoline
production could push crude oil prices higher.


"A rising refinery operating rate rise will insinuate a possible
drawdown in crude oil stocks which could mean that crude oil
prices are actually set to gain on unleaded prices in the very
near term," piling on pressure on an already stretched
infrastructure, they wrote.


In other data, the DoE said that US crude oil reserves increased
by 1.1 million barrels to 335.6 million barrels last week. That
undershot forecasts for a rise of 1.5 million.


Despite concerns over stockpiles, oil producers' cartel OPEC said
Wednesday it saw no need to increase output, even as the
International Energy Agency (IEA), the consumers watchdog,
stressed the need to pump more crude.


"The market is stable," Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries secretary general Abdullah el-Badri said.


"I think maybe in June we will review the market to see if we
need more oil or not. But I don't think we need it," Badri told
reporters on the sidelines of a meeting for Asian energy
ministers when asked if OPEC must pump more crude to ease prices.


But IEA chief Claude Mandil warned there was a supply shortage
which required producers to hike output.


"At present, there is a lack of crude because we see crude stocks
not increasing whereas they should increase at this time of the
year," Mandil said.


Mandil also called on oil producers to invest in the oil sector
to increase spare production capacity which would eventually ease
pressure on prices.

