

Key members of the UN Security Council indicated Wednesday that
they could soon act to break the deadlock over creating an
international court to try suspects in Lebanese ex-premier Rafiq
Hariri's murder.


Although options have not yet been discussed, the 15-member
council "could assist the Lebanese by establishing the tribunal,
that the Lebanese have agreed to broadly, under Chapter Seven (of
the UN Charter)," US Ambassador to the UN Zalmay Khalilzad told
reporters.


His comments came after the council heard a briefing from Nicolas
Michel, the UN's top legal adviser, on his recent mission to
Beirut where he failed to get rival Lebanese factions to agree on
the formation of the tribunal.


"We heard that the domestic situation with regard to the process
in Lebanon to establish the tribunal is deadlocked," said
Khalilzad, the president of the Security Council for May.


"The council needs to look at options to assist the Lebanese
because it's very important that the tribunal be established as
soon as possible," he added.


"We support the establishment of the tribunal as soon as
possible," Khalilzad said. "It's important for reasons of justice
and it's important for deterrence of such actions in the future
and therefore important for the long term stability of Lebanon."


"We are concerned by this continuing deadlock confirmed by
Nicolas Michel's report," his French colleague, Jean-Marc de La
Sabliere, said.


"The Security Council should study how best to help Lebanon
overcome this impasse," he added. "We think that the time for the
Security Council to exercise its responsibilities is
approaching."


But Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin warned the Lebanese that
they should not expect the Security Council to sort out every
problem.


"The people of Lebanon cannot be looking to the Security Council
to solve all their problems," he said. "We feel there's still
time for the parties in Lebanon to come to agreement on the
special tribunal.


Hariri, a billionaire former premier, and 22 other people were
killed in a massive bomb blast in February 2005, widely blamed on
Syria, which was then forced to end nearly 30 years of military
and political domination in Lebanon.


The Lebanese majority has demanded recourse to a Security Council
resolution under Chapter Seven of the UN Charter to create the
Hariri tribunal.


But the pro-Syrian speaker of parliament, Nabih Berri, has
refused to convene parliament to ratify creation of the court.


Lebanon's anti-Damascus parliamentary majority accuses the
opposition of trying to protect Syria, which has denied any
involvement in Hariri's murder.

