

The battle for Dutch bank ABN Amro is to move to an Amsterdam
court on Thursday where a group of shareholders are hoping to
strike a blow against management plans for a merger with
Barclays.


ABN Amro is a takeover target for British bank Barclays, which
has offered 67 billion euros (91 billion dollars), and a
consortium of banks led by Royal Bank of Scotland, which has
offered 72 billion euros.


ABN management has agreed to a deal with Barclays that includes a
provision to sell US unit LaSalle Bank to Bank of America before
the completion of the takeover.


But some shareholders, who would prefer the higher offer from the
consortium, believe the sale of LaSalle is a "poison pill"
intended by ABN management to deter the consortium.


Dutch small shareholders group VEB has asked the commercial court
to rule on whether the decision to sell LaSalle should be put to
a vote by shareholders for approval.


If the court rules in favour of VEB, a key part of the deal with
Barclays would be in jeopardy and the decision would encourage
the consortium to continue with their approach.


ABN Amro acknowledged another legal challenge on Wednesday,
saying a suit had been filed in a New York state court contesting
the sale of LaSalle.


Under the terms of the agreement to sell the US unit, Bank of
America would pay 21 billion dollars unless ABN received another
higher bid before May 6.


However, if another bid were made, BoA would have the exclusive
chance to increase its offer and would then win the battle.


LaSalle is one of ABN's most attractive assets and is the main
bait for the Royal Bank of Scotland, analysts say.


Whatever the outcome of the tussle for ABN Amro, a takeover by
Barclays or the consortium, which also includes Spain's Banco
Santander and Dutch-Belgian group Fortis, would constitute the
biggest banking takeover ever.


The management of ABN Amro, led by chief executive Rijkman
Groenink, have been under fire from VEB and British hedge fund
TCI.


Groeink is firmly in favour of the Barclays offer, which promises
to keep ABN Amro intact except for the sale of La Salle. The
consortium intend to divide up ABN's asset between themselves.


TCI revealed on Tuesday that it had called for the ousting of
Groenink because of his perceived bias in favour of Barclays and
because he had "no intention of negotiating in good faith with
the RBS consortium."

