

French magistrates looking into the 1995 death of a French judge
in Djibouti Wednesday asked the Paris military governor to allow
a search of the Elysee presidential palace, a source close to the
case said.


Gendarmes barred judges Fabienne Pous and Michele Ganascia
earlier from carrying out the search at the African affairs
offices of the presidency, said the source who asked not to be
named.


The judges are investigating the death of French judge Bernard
Borrel, whose half-charred body was found in a ravine on October
19, 1995, some 80 kilometres (50 miles) outside of Djibouti.


Djibouti authorities concluded that Borrel, who served as an
adviser to the justice ministry, had committed suicide but French
coroners have disputed this version and suspect he may have been
murdered.


Borrel's widow Elisabeth accuses Paris of wanting to bury the
case.


"It is justified to carry out these searches before the paper
shredders get to work," Elisabeth Borrel told journalists.


She lamented that if the magistrates now get permission to search
the Elysee, "they risk not finding anything."


Two other searches were carried out last month at the offices of
the foreign ministry and the justice ministry.


French judges have unsuccessfully sought to question Djibouti
President Ismail Omar Guelleh and other senior Djibouti officials
in the investigation.


The Borrel affair has been a source of tension between Djibouti
and France, which has a strategically important military base
there.


A source in the Elysee separately said that it had invoked a
constitutional article stating that the president is immune from
prosecution and legal action while in office.


"Two investigating judges arrived at the presidency and said they
were acting as part of an investigation into the Borrel case.
They were told that under article 67 of the constitution, it
would not be possible to grant their request," said the official.


But a spokesman for a union representing magistrates condemned
the Elysee's refusal to allow the search.


Bruno Thouzellier said he did "not see how article 67 could be
invoked as it is not the president of the republic that is
targeted but the offices of the Elysee which do not enjoy
immunity."


France in October issued arrest warrants against the prosecutor
and the Djibouti head of the secret service for allegedly
tampering with witnesses in connection with Borrel's death.

