

Press freedom has significantly deteriorated in Russia, Pakistan
and Egypt in the last five years, a leading watchdog said
Wednesday, cataloguing government crackdowns and the killing of
reporters.


The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists identified 10
countries where freedom of the press had slipped most since 2002,
with Ethiopia leading a hall of shame that also ranked Cuba,
Morocco and Thailand.


"The behavior of all of these countries is deeply troubling,"
Joel Simon, the watchdog's executive director, said in a
statement accompanying the report.


"The rapid retreats in nations where the media have thrived
demonstrate just how easily the fundamental right to press
freedom can be taken away," he added.


In Ethiopia, the committee identified government closures of
independent newspapers and jailing of editors, while second-
placed Gambia had seen reporters jailed or killed and criminal
penalties instituted for defamation.


"Democracy's foothold in Africa is shallow when it comes to press
freedom," Simon said. The pattern ofjailing, physical attacks and
censorship was "far worse than what we saw only a few years ago,"
the report added.


In third-placed Russia, all three national television channels
were now under state control, 11 journalists had been killed in
the last five years and a law introduced equating slander of
state officials with "extremism," it said.


The report, released ahead of World Press Freedom Day on
Thursday, said the list included both traditionally restrictive
nations where press conditions had worsened and relatively open
countries that had turned increasingly repressive.


"Nations such as Thailand and Morocco have been considered press
freedom leaders in their regions but have charted sharp
declines," it said.


Cuba, long considered by press freedom activists as one of the
world's worst offenders, had increased restrictions on the press
through widespread imprisonment, expulsions, and harassment, it
said.


Authorities were increasingly silencing dissent by jailing
critics, it said.


"Morocco, often cited as a regional model for press freedom, is
now tied with Tunisia for the dubious distinction of sentencing
the most journalists to prison in the Arab world," it added.


"Judicial harassment is being used increasingly in many of these
nations," it added, citing 85 criminal cases being launched
against journalists in Egypt between 2004 and 2006.


Thailand's military junta had meanwhile introduced broad
censorship since seizing power last year.


In order, the report found Ethiopia, Gambia, Russia, the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Pakistan, Egypt, Azerbaijan,
Morocco and Thailand as the countries where press freedom had
deteriorated most since 2002.


Conflict zones including Iraq and Somalia were excluded from the
report.

