

Detailed thermal imaging of Mars has shown that ice on the Red
Planet is patchy and lurks at varied depths in its soil, a
finding that will help finetune the search for water there.


Evidence from orbiting probes and US rovers says that millions of
years ago Mars was covered with water -- and there could be
substantial quantities of the stuff lurking as ice, just beneath
the surface.


The big questions, though, are exactly where, and at what depths.


A gamma-ray spectrometer aboard the orbiting Mars Odyssey was
first to indicate that water ice could be lying at relatively
shallow depths.


But its pictures are too wide-scale -- 500 kilometers (300 miles)
wide at least -- to locate the ice more precisely or to provide
practical tips for shaping future explorations.


But a tweaked-up, heat-sensing camera aboard the same spacecraft
may have the answer, according to a paper reported on Thursday in
Nature, the British science journal.


With its infrared eyes, the gadget, called THEMIS, is able to
spot details just 100 metres (yards) across.


It has now mapped several Martian sites, each at a latitude of 60
to 70 degrees, where surface ice has already been known to exist.


The nature of the soil has a big impact on where the ice can be
found, says investigator Joshua Bandfield of Arizona State
University.


In dusty areas, ice can survive at a couple of inches (several
centimetres) beneath the surface, apparently insulated by the
grains.


But in areas littered with rocks, stable ice -- ice unaffected by
local seasons -- can be found at much greater depths, sometimes
"many feet (tens of centimetres) below the surface," says
Bandfield.


The apparent reason: rocks warmed by the Sun pump a lot of heat
into the ground, thwarting the formation of ice at layers that
are very close to the surface.


"These two surface materials -- rock and dust -- vary widely
across the ground, giving underground ice a patchy distribution,"
Bandfield explains.


So far, the evidence for water on Mars is inferred, coming from
pictures and other data from US and European orbiters and from
two American rovers, Spirit and Opportunity, that are on the
ground.


But in August, NASA is due to launch a mission that, the agency
hopes, will provide the first direct evidence.


It is due to send a non-roving lander, called Phoenix, that will
be dropped to a high-latitude site on Mars' northern hemisphere.


There, the scout will scrape away some of the soil, hopefully
exposing some ice, which an onboard lab will then analyse to see
if it has the potential for harbouring bacterial life.


Choosing the most promising spot will determine whether this
mission succeeds or fails.


"The take-home message for the Phoenix lander is that the THEMIS
results show a lot of patchiness in the ground ice, and this
should continue down to smaller and smaller scales," Bandfield
says.


Phoenix, he warns, "may find ground ice is shallower and much
easier to reach in some spots than in others."

