

Former champion Nikolay Davydenko was bundled out 7-5, 6-1 by
French qualifier Olivier Patience on a day interrupted for four
hours by rain at the Estoril Open on Wednesday.


The top-seeded Russian, who won the 2003 title and lost the final
a year ago to David Nalbandian, admitted that he was off the boil
on the damp surface, made more slippery during the long weather
interruption despite being covered.


The world number four had begun the match a day earlier against
number 123 Patience, who also won their only other encounter at
the Australian Open in 2004.


Davydenko said that the wrist which he injured last week in
Barcelona, which forced him to withdraw from that event, was not
a major factor.


"I got here Saturday but only trained once," he admitted. "I
didn't have problems hitting my shots, but it was not really 100
percent."


The Russian said that his lack of preparation left him no chance
against an on- form opponent.


Patience overcame nerves at the start for the upset: "I was tight
at the start, it was my first match against a top five player.


"There were a lot of mistakes from both of us. But I began
playing well in the second set.


"I tried to play an offensive game."


Second seed Tommy Robredo and number three Novak Djokovic came up
winners and moved into the role as possible title favourites.


Spain's Roberdo hit the practise court for extra work after
securing a win over compatriot Albert Montanes 6-4, 6-3 in a
first-round match.


Serb Novak Djokovic won his second match of the week to advance
to the quarter- finals, making it short and sweet over Spaniard
Santiago Ventura 6-2, 6-2.


While he loves the event where he is making his debut, Djokovic
is not enamoured with the weather, playing his first match in
wind and second in the heavy post- rainstorm air.


"It was a long day today, but that's part of the job," said the
19-year-old ranked fifth in the world. There was a lot of waiting
around.


"I was glad to get a quick match, the balls were heavy and it was
difficult. But I'm taking a lot of confidence into the quarters."


Paul-Henri Mathieu of France continued his storming run of
success after winning last weekend's Casablanca title over
Montanes, reaching the last eight 6-2, 6-1 against Russian Igor
Kunitsyn 6-2, 6-1.


On the women's side, French top seed Marion Bartoli advanced into
the quarter- finals at the expense of Virgina Ruano Pascual of
Spain 6-3, 6-3 while Czech third seed Lucie Safarova put out
Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus 6-3, 2-6, 6-4.

