

Spain's public prosecutor on Wednesday said he was calling for a
ban on all civic lists related to banned separatist Basque group
Batasuna and allies ahead of municipal and regional elections on
May 27.


Batasuna has been banned since 2003 for alleged links to armed
separatist group ETA but has been seeking ways of fielding
friendly candidates in the poll in its own continued absence.


However, prosecutor general Candido Conde-Pumpido said he would
be calling on the supreme court, Spain's highest judicial
authority, to exclude all related groups from the poll.


Those groups comprise a list of 244 "citizens' lists" bearing the
generic label "Abertzale Sozialistak", meaning "patriot and
socialist" in the Basque language.


Conde-Pumpido said he considered the lists a "continuation or
succession" of Batasuna. He also called for the banning from the
poll of another six pro- independence Basque lists on the grounds
that they had been "contaminated" by Batasuna.


The supreme court must make the final decision on the basis of
documentation which Conde-Pumpido is forwarding.


"It would be sufficient for Batasuna to condemn and reject
violence for this party to present itself at elections," he
stressed.


The main conservative opposition Popular Party has been loudly
demanding that any party with any kind of link to Batasuna be
banned from the polls and the issue has become a key one in the
run-up to the elections.


On Sunday, Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ruled out
moves by Batasuna to contest the polls, saying that his
government would apply the law governing party activities under
which Batasuna is banned "in letter and in spirit."


ETA has been blamed for over 800 deaths in its four-decade
campaign to achieve independence for the Basque region in
northern Spain and southwestern France.


The group violated a March 2006 ceasefire with a December 30
bombing in Madrid which killed two people, the first fatalities
since May 2003 in an ETA attack.


The bombing also torpedoed months of government attempts to inch
towards talks on a negotiated solution to the conflict.

