

Turkey's political crisis and the army's role in the presidential
election could fuel opposition to Ankara's quest to join the
European Union and harm its membership chances, analysts said
Wednesday.


They warned that Turkey's image in Europe was being damaged by
the standoff pitting the Islamic governing party against the
powerful army, the guardian of secularism, but conceded that
democracy was not yet in crisis.


This, they said, could change were the army to act to ensure that
the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) presidential
candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, was not elected by
parliament.


"For states that are against Turkey's accession to the EU,
everything that goes on in Turkey -- whatever it might be -- will
be used against it," said Didier Billion, analyst at the IRIS
strategy research institute in Paris.


"Hostile forces are going to look at these events under one
light: this country is totally unstable and therefore cannot be
integrated into the EU," he said.


Independent expert Kirsty Hughes, agreed to a point, saying that
most Europeans do not understand Turkish politics and are deeply
influenced by media images.


"It certainly damages the opinion of people in Europe," she said.


"It is a complicated situation in Turkey and they don't instantly
understand it. When you see people in the street, the army
threatening to intervene, early elections, there is obviously
some crisis..."


Indeed this crisis, which began in earnest last week, took a new
turn Wednesday when Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
asked parliament to set general elections for June 24, almost
five months early.


It came a day after the Constitutional Court annulled Friday's
first-round presidential vote in the assembly in which Gul,
Erdogan's closest aide, was sole candidate.


Within hours of that vote the army issued a statement saying it
would be prepared to act to preserve Turkey's secular identity.


By Sunday, more than one million people had rallied in Istanbul
in opposition to Gul, once a member of a party outlawed for
Islamist activities and whose wife wears the symbolically-charged
Islamic headscarf.


Amid much controversy and stern opposition, Turkey was granted EU
candidate status in 2005 and its accession process will take at
least a decade.


One factor slowing down Ankara's quest has been the military's
tendency to intervene in politics -- it has overturned four
governments since 1960.


The EU's executive Commission warned Wednesday that "the
supremacy of democratic civilian power over the military" is a
prerequisite for any country hoping to join.


"What I don't like and what is a problem is the intervention of
the army, coming up with a very strong statement, influencing
very strongly the constitutional court," said Dutch MEP and
Turkey observer Joost Lagendijk.


"We'll never know if the court took a decision on purely legal
ground," he said. "There will always be a black spot or a stain
on the decision."


"What we need to see is a regular run up to the election in June,
that the army stays out of politics," he said.


Billion underlined: "We, the members of the European Union,
cannot accept that an army interferes in the political arena."


For the moment, said Katinka Barysch at the Centre for European
Reform, that is not the case and the problem remains one that
could be sorted out by Turkey's democratic institutions.


"If there is no military coup, if there is only people having a
disagreement about who should be president, then there is
absolutely no reason for the EU to stop the negotiations," she
said.

