

The German government attempted to reach out to the country's
three million Muslims on Wednesday but faced criticism from a
Muslim leader for organising "aimless" talks.


Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble gathered together Muslim
groups in Berlin for a second conference in the space of nine
months to tackle growing alienation between Germans and Muslim
immigrants.


Schaeuble, a conservative, insisted that progress had been made
"on many points" and said open and frank discussions were the
only way forward to ease the integration of Muslims in German
society.


"We all agreed that this process is the right one and that it has
made progress. It was a step in the right direction," Schaeuble
told journalists after the meeting.


But the head of the Central Council of Muslims, Ayyub Axel
Koehler, said: "We cannot go on like this, debating without any
aim.


"There must be an evaluation of this whole process... We need to
set concrete goals and we need to lay out a roadmap."


Much of the debate ahead of the meeting focused on the role of
the recently formed Muslim Coordination Council.


The council is an umbrella group comprising the Central Council
of Muslims and three other organisations: the Turkish Islamic
Union for Religious Affairs; the Islamic Council; and the
Association of Islamic Cultural Centres.


The groups have said they would try to find a joint stance on
issues such as immigration, integration and extremism, while
remaining independent.


Schaeuble has welcomed the creation of the Muslim Coordination
Council.


But since it only represents the 300,000 people who belong to
Islamic organisations, he says its ability to speak for the 3.4
million Muslims living in Germany is limited.


About 2.4 million Turks or people of Turkish descent, many of
them descendants of guest workers invited to Germany in the 1960s
and 1970s, live in the country. Another 200,000 Muslims in
Germany come from North Africa.


There are also about 55,000 Afghans in the community, 60,000
Iranians and 160,000 Bosnian Muslims, according to official
estimates.


Germany's Muslim community is overwhelmingly Sunni.


The first meeting of the groups with the government last
September was overshadowed by a telling row over the staging in
Berlin of a Mozart opera, "Idomeneo," featuring the severed head
of the Prophet Mohammed.


The opera was pulled from the schedule over fears of violent
protests by Islamic radicals, but was staged later amid tight
security.

