

A reconciliation conference for feuding Somali factions planned
for May 16 has been postponed by one month and will only be held
if funds are made available, a top Somali official said
Wednesday.


Somali ambassador to Ethiopia Abdikarin Farah said the government
had not received money from the international community to
organise the conference, initially set to begin on April 16.


"The conference should start on June 16 if we have the money. So
far we haven't received any. The international community has put
nothing on the table yet," Farah told journalists here.


Somali interim President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed announced in March
that the country would hold the conference, involving some 3,000
people from Somalia and abroad, in a bid to stem continuing
cycles of violence.


Since the beginning of the year, the Somali capital Mogadishu has
seen an upsurge in clashes between Ethiopian forces and Islamist
insurgents and clan fighters opposed to their presence.


Ethiopian-Somali troops drove out a powerful Islamist movement
from swathes of central and southern Somalia, including
Mogadishu, at the start of the year. Farah pleaded for help for
tens of thousands of people displaced by recent fighting, which
died down last week.


"Somalia is facing a major humanitarian crisis," he said. "The
international community has no more excuses (not) to bring in
humanitarian aid."


According to the United Nations, around two-thirds of Mogadishu's
one million residents have been displaced since February.


Up to 400,000 fled the city, while another 300,000 were displaced
within the coastal capital.


Yusuf said the Islamists had been defeated and urged residents to
return to their homes, many of which have been reduced to rubble.


"Every Somali today needs some humanitarian help," Farah said.


"In the short term we need direct humanitarian aid, to provide
needs for food, water and shelter against the rains, and medical
supplies including doctors."


"We need all the help the international community can give us."

