

A US panel sharply criticized Iraqi leaders on Wednesday for
"alarming and deteriorating" abuse of religious freedoms and
called for Iraq to be put on a watch list for the first time
since the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime.


"Although non-state actors, particularly the Sunni-dominated
insurgency, are responsible for a substantial proportion of the
sectarian violence and associated human rights violations, the
Iraqi government bears responsibility," the panel said.


Iraqi leaders had used the state security forces to commit human
rights violations through arbitrary arrests, prolonged detentions
and torture, the US Commission on International Religious Freedom
said in its annual report.


And "the Iraqi government tolerates religiously-based attacks and
other religious freedom abuses carried out by armed Shi'a
factions," including the Mahdi army loyal to radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, it said.


The attacks targeted both Sunni insurgents and civilians, said
the bipartisan commission, which reports to the president,
Congress and the secretary of state.


The government commission said that if the situation did not
improve by next year, Iraq may be put on a blacklist of countries
of particular concern which violate religious freedoms.


The commission had listed Iraq as a country of particular concern
under Saddam's rule but dropped the description following the US-
led invasion in 2003 that toppled the regime.


Four years after the invasion, armed Shiite factions were
carrying out abductions, beatings, murders, torture and rape with
impunity "and often, governmental complicity," the panel said.


"Although many of these militia-related violations reveal the
challenges evident in Iraq's fragmented political system, they
nonetheless reflect the Iraqi government's tolerance -- and in
some instances commission -- of egregious violations of religious
freedom," it said.


The commission also said non-Muslims -- Christians, Yazidis and
Sabean Mandaeans -- faced "pervasive and severe violence and
discrimination."


On Wednesday the commission recommended that 11 countries should
be put on the blacklist: China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea,
Myanmar, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan
and Vietnam.

