

At least 42 Rwandan Hutu rebels and four government soldiers have
been killed in a crackdown by the Democratic Republic of Congo's
military in the strife-torn east, the UN said Wednesday.


The FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda rebel
group) have lost at least 42 men, while four DR Congo soldiers
have died in a combat zone north of the eastern town of Goma, it
said.


The United Nations, which released casualty figures provided by
the army, is not taking part in the operation, which is being
carried out by soldiers and former rebels.


DR Congo soldiers began the offensive in North Kivu last week,
deploying six battalions, or about 3,500 men, to secure two
arterial roads linking the town of Goma, the regional capital,
and Ishasha on the Ugandan border.


On April 16, suspected FDLR rebels attacked a minibus on the road
between Goma and Ishasha, killing a student. Three days earlier,
they exchanged gunfire with Congolese soldiers on the same road.


The violence has prompted hundreds to flee their homes.


Gabriel de Brosses, a spokesman for the UN force in Congo
(MONUC), said about 890 people had been displaced by the latest
fighting.


Andrew Zadel, of the UN office for the co-ordination of
humanitarian affairs (OCHA), said it was "very difficult to have
a clear idea of population movements in the war zone as
humanitarian workers lack access."


He said that more than 113,000 people had been displaced since
the start of the year in the province of North Kivu, of which
Goma is the capital.


Rwandan Hutu fighters, estimated to be about 10,000-strong by the
United Nations, are still present in eastern DR Congo.


They led 14 attacks last month in the Walungu and Kabare areas,
according to Kemal Saiki, a MONUC spokesman.


Another 72 people were kidnapped and several rapes were reported.


Some of the rebels are accused of having participated in the
Rwandan genocide in 1994. Some 800,000 people, most of them
ethnic Tutsis, were killed within six weeks in Rwanda by members
of the Hutu ethnic group.

