

A bare-knuckled battle looms over the surprise bid launched by
Rupert Mudoch's News Corp. for The Wall Street Journal parent Dow
Jones & Co., an offer that has shaken up the sluggish
newspaper industry.


The whopping five-billion-dollar bid has sparked fears that the
Australian-born media baron would bring his style of sensational
journalism to the white-shoe corridors of the most prestigious US
business daily.


The Journal reported on its news pages Wednesday that the
controlling shareholders, the diverse members of the Bancroft
family, would oppose the deal despite the stunning 63 percent
premium to the share price before the bid was unveiled.


Widely spread out, the Bancroft family holds 24 percent of the
capital but more than 62 percent of the vote in Dow Jones.


But opposition is coming from other quarters to the bid by
Murdoch to add the Journal and other Dow Jones media properties
to his empire, which includes the Fox News Channel, MySpace, 20th
Century Fox and the New York Post.


The Newspaper Guild local 1096, which represents Dow Jones
employees, gave a clear signal of opposition:


"We believe a News Corp takeover would be a direct threat to the
prestige, independence and unquestioned integrity of Dow Jones,"
the union said in a statement.


"Mr. Murdoch has shown a willingness to crush quality and
independence, and there is no reason to think he would handle Dow
Jones or The Journal any differently."


Ben Bagdikian, a professor emeritus and former dean of the
Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California at
Berkeley, said Murdoch would likely use the acquisition to serve
his own financial and political aims.


"Every media property Murdoch has owned has been put to his
political purposes, as is demonstrated by how he uses the Fox
networks to project right-wing politics (into) news and
commentary and to cheapen the national culture," said Bagdikian.


Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst at the Poynter Institute,
said the Journal is "a trophy property and he (Murdoch) likes to
have those things."


But Edmonds said concerns about Murdoch's meddling in news
coverage raised when he acquired The Times of London proved to be
unfounded.


"When he bought The Times in London there was a concern it would
go downmarket and trashy," Edmonds said. "Neither of those things
happened."


Edmonds said that the offer is "eye-catching" because of its
size.


"It may not be an offer they can't refuse, but it is hard to
resist," Edmonds said.


Some analysts said the bid could prompt other newspaper players
like The New York Times Co. or The Washington Post or other
investors to join the fray and possibly spark other
consolidation.


"I expect the Bancroft's trustees to invite other bidders to make
an offer for Dow Jones," said Porter Bibb, managing partner at
MediaTech Capital Partners.


"The Bancroft family will never see another moment like this.
There will be a new owner sometime over the next several months.
Private equity is going to come out of the woodwork, some of the
major media companies and some of the big Internet companies.
Think what this would do for Yahoo, Google or Microsoft as a
content provider."


But if the Bancrofts ignore the bid, shareholders will almost
certainly sue the company, said Paul Lapides, director of the
Corporate Governance Center at Georgia's Kennesaw State
University.


The bid "may be a tough thing for them to turn down," added
Charles Elson, a corporate-governance expert at the University of
Delaware.


Some said the Murdoch bid makes sense for News Corp. as it seeks
to set up a new financial television channel later this year.


"The idea is to dominate world financial news," said media
investor Larry Haverty of Gamco Investors.


Murdoch, who is chairman and chief executive of News Corp., said
in an interview on his Fox News channel he wants the prize of the
Wall Street Journal: "We feel this is the greatest newspaper in
America. One of the greatest in the world."


Murdoch, who is now a US citizen and has reincorporated the group
in the United States, said the bid represented "a big, generous
offer."

