

The Vatican has reacted with outrage to criticism of Pope
Benedict XVI's stance on euthanasia during a traditional May Day
rock concert in Rome that was carried live on Italian television.


"Attacking the Church is terrorism. Fueling blind and irrational
fury against he who always speaks in the name of love is
terrorism," the Vatican mouthpiece L'Osservatore Romano said in
its edition to appear Thursday.


"It is vile and terrorist to throw stones at the pope, this time
directly, while feeling protected by shouts of approval from an
easily excitable crowd," the daily said.


The remarks came after singer Andrea Rivera, a presenter at the
concert, spoke out strongly against a decision by the Italian
Catholic Church to deny a religious funeral to Piergiorgio Welby,
a muscular dystrophy sufferer who ended his life in December by
having a doctor remove him from his artificial respirator.


Rivera told a throng of some 400,000 people at Tuesday's concert:
"The pope said that he doesn't believe in the theory of
evolution. I agree, the Church has not evolved.


"I cannot accept that the Vatican refused a funeral for Welby.
That wasn't the case for (the Spanish and Chilean dictators)
Franco and Pinochet," he said.


L'Osservatore Romano wrote: "The statements ... are of a worrying
superficiality, but their gravity is not superficial."


The paper pointed to death threats that have been received by the
head of the Italian Catholic Church, Archbishop Angelo Bagnasco.


Harshly criticised for his stance against legal recognition for
same-sex and unmarried couples, Bagnasco is under police
protection after receiving several death threats.


Most recently, on Friday, he received an envelope containing a
bullet and a picture of the prelate with a swastika over it.


Labor unions that organised the concert distanced themselves from
Rivera's comments. Right-wing groups have condemned the remarks,
while some on the left have criticised L'Osservatore Romano's
comments as exaggerated.

