

An international team of researchers said Wednesday that they had
conducted laboratory studies on mice that provide further
evidence to show that a malfunctioning gene can cause both
schizophrenia and depression.


The gene, DISC1, was first identified in 2000 in a large Scottish
family with a history of multiple mental illnesses, but little is
known about how the mutations in the gene interfere with biology
to trigger mental disorders.


The hope is that having reproduced the defect in mice, those mice
will serve as guinea pigs for future treatments for the
disorders.


The investigators began their experiment by inducing mutations in
a batch of mice using chemical compounds. When they screened the
mice they found they had two groups of mice with quite distinct
mutations in the DISC1 gene.


Subsequent testing showed that one of the mutant mouse strains
appeared to exhibit schizophrenia-type symptoms such as attention
and memory deficits.


When those mice were treated with the antipsychotic drugs Haldol
and Clozapine, the symptoms cleared up.


Similarly, tests on another batch of mice with a different
mutation in the DISC1 gene suggested they were exhibiting
symptoms of depression and when the rodents were treated with an
antidepressant, Zyban, they also improved.


Professor David Porteous, chair of Human Molecular Genetics and
Medicine at the University of Edinburgh, said the findings
bolster previous research linking the gene with schizophrenia,
depression and bipolar disorder.


"We also found remarkable clear cut differences between the
different types of damage to the gene and the treatment that was
most effective. By analyzing how the brain changes and develops
over time we would hope that this would lead to more effective
drugs to treat such illnesses."


About one in 50 people worldwide will develop the symptoms of
schizophrenia or bipolar disorder, otherwise known as manic
depression, with the first signs often appearing in late
adolescence or early adulthood. Most cases arise in families with
some sort of history of mental illness implying a strong
influence of genes.


The study is published in the journal Neuron, and was a
collaboration of researchers at Mount Sinai and the University of
Edinburgh in Britain.

