

US banking powerhouse Citigroup said its latest quarterly profits
fell 11 percent as it set aside cash for a major overhaul of its
worldwide operations and at least 17,000 job cuts.


Despite cooling profits, Citigroup -- one of the world's biggest
financial houses -- still raked in a mega 5.01 billion dollars in
profits during its first-quarter reporting period.


Days after unveiling a global putsch by top executives to revamp
its operations, Citigroup reported earnings amounting to 1.01
dollars per share, or 1.18 dollars excluding one-time costs,
against market expectations of 1.09 dollars a share.


The latest profit snapshot includes a previously disclosed charge
of 1.38 billion dollars that will help pay for the overhaul and
thousands of severance packages as Citigroup seeks to recast
itself in a more streamlined mold.


"We achieved these results while completing our structural
expense review, which will help us become a leaner, more
efficient organization and lower our rate of expense growth,"
said chairman and chief executive Charles Prince.


Although Citigroup's quarterly profits have slowed over the past
two quarters, Wall Street appeared to applaud its latest earnings
as the firm's shares surged 1.33 dollars, or over two percent, to
close at 52.93 dollars.


Revenues surged 15 percent to a record 25 billion dollars, driven
by swelling business volumes, particularly surging investment
banking and trading turnover.


Prince, who has come under shareholder pressure to rein in costs,
said  changes in Citigroup's operations will be driven by new
acquisitions and efforts "in expanding our distribution and
enhancing our technology as we build a broad, strong foundation
for future growth."


Expenses have ballooned in the past year partly as Citigroup has
raced to open hundreds of new bank branches in the US and
overseas while seeking to fend off fierce domestic competition
from arch-rival Bank of America.


The company opened 51 new US bank branches during the quarter,
and 48 new branches internationally.


Citigroup recently acquired British-based Egg, Ltd., an internet
bank, and is vying to takeover the scandal-hit Japanese
securities firm Nikko Cordial. It has also expanded its presence
in fast-growing China.


Amid a slump in the US housing market, Citigroup also reported an
increase in net credit losses of 164 million dollars which the
bank said was partly related to higher mortgage failures.


Fears are mounting that growing home foreclosures across the
United States could reverberate along Wall Street after several
sizeable mortgage lenders have gone out of business in recent
months.


Despite its profit slowdown, Citigroup still overshadows its
national competitors.


Rival US banking group Wachovia also reported its first-quarter
earnings Monday, but its net profits -- while respectable at 2.3
billion dollars -- were less than half of what Citigroup banked.

