

French intelligence warned their American counterparts, eight
months before the September 11, 2001 attacks, that Al-Qaeda was
planning to hijack a US-bound plane, Le Monde reported Monday.


The DGSE external intelligence service wrote a total of nine
reports between September 2000 and August 2001 on Al-Qaeda
threats against the US and passed all of them on to the Central
Intelligence Agency's Paris bureau, the paper said.


Le Monde based its report on 328 pages of classified documents
leaked by DGSE sources, showing that Osama bin Laden's network
had been infiltrated by foreign agents long before the September
2001 attacks.


In a file dated January 5, 2001, also seen by AFP, the DGSE said
it had learned of a plan to hijack a plane bound for the United
States from Frankfurt in Germany and take it to Kandahar in
Afghanistan.


Le Monde said that file was passed onto the CIA in January of the
same year.


The plot described was allegedly drawn up by Al-Qaeda with the
Taliban militia in Afghanistan and Chechen rebels.


But there was no discussion then of flying the plane to the
United States to smash it into a building there, which is what
Al-Qaeda hijackers did when they seized four planes in September
2001 in attacks that left 3,000 people dead.


The January 5, 2001 file was titled "Aircraft hijack plan by
radical Islamists."


It said that in October of the previous year, bin Laden had
decided at a meeting in Afghanistan his next action against the
US would involve a hijacking, but that there was still
disagreement among Al-Qaeda leaders over the exact details.


Al-Qaeda had in 1998 carried out simultaneous bomb attacks on the
US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya that left hundreds dead.


The DGSE documents drew on information provided by the
intelligence agencies of other countries that was corroborated by
agents placed by the French in Al-Qaeda training camps in
Afghanistan, Le Monde said.


These agents were often young men from European cities who had
been recruited by the DGSE after trying to become "jihadis," or
holy warriors, for Al-Qaeda.


The DGSE reports were also based on information gleaned from
intercepting satellite phone calls, Le Monde said.


A 2004 report by the US Congress on the events leading up to
September 11 highlighted failures by US intelligence services to
gather and share information that might have helped prevent the
attacks.


But Le Monde said no mention was made in that report of the
information that the DGSE passed on to the CIA in early 2001.


The DGSE documents said the plotters, who began working on the
hijack plan in 2000, considered seven airlines, including
American and United Airlines, which had planes hijacked on
September 11.


Le Monde on Monday published a lengthy article on the affair,
written by Guillaume Dasquie, the author of two books on Al-
Qaeda, who acquired the documents.


The dossier consisted of notes, maps, graphics, and satellite
photos gathered between July 2000 and October 2001.


Le Monde said sources close to the DGSE said the agency had as
early as 1995 set up a cell to watch bin Laden.


On September 11, 2001, 19 men, mostly Saudi nationals, hijacked
four airliners in the United States.


They crashed two of them into the World Trade Center in New York,
which caused the centre's twin towers to collapse, and a third
into the Pentagon, the headquarters of the US Defense Department
in Washington.


The fourth plane crashed into a field in Pennsylvania after
passengers tried to retake control of the aircraft.

