

Annika Sorenstam will be sidelined for at least another month
because of a back injury, her agent said here Monday as the
Swedish star announced the opening of her new golf and fitness
academy.


Mark Steinberg, Sorenstam's agent, said Sorenstam is taking her
time in bouncing back from a ruptured disc and herniated disc in
her back, adding that two specialists have told her surgery is
unlikely but remains an option.


"We're hoping that this is a four-to-six-week process, and she's
back, but everybody reacts differently, as you all know, to rehab
and medication," said Steinberg.


Sorenstam plans to meet with a rehabilitation expert Tuesday or
Wednesday and start a process that would last 10 days to two
weeks before then having another MRI exam to see how the spine
and discs respond to her efforts.


"Then we'll have a much clearer picture," Steinberg said.


Sitting out another month could allow Sorenstam to return in he
event she hosts, the Ginn Tribute, starting May 31. But longer
treatment could keep her out of the LPGA Championship the
following week.


Sorenstam appeared at the Ginn Reunion Resort to unveil the
Annika Academy, a program based on golf of fitness theories of
the women who hung onto her world number one rankings when
Mexico's Lorena Ochoa did not win last Sunday.


"I'm so proud of this place. This is really what I envisioned,"
Sorenstam said. "I'm part of it. It's not just here's my name,
please put a building up and let's have some golf and some
fitness. This is really me."


Sorenstam said she is sold out this year for premium packages,
which include a round of golf with her and cost 12,000 dollars.
The 1,250-dollar Academy package includes a three-day stay at the
resort plus breakfast, lunch, fitness, green fees, golf lessons
and swing analysis.


"I'm quite hands-on. I micromanage sometimes a little too much,"
Sorenstam said. "I actually answer the phone sometimes and I say,
'Hi, this is Annika'. It has been a lot of fun. They can't
believe that I'm answering the phone."


Most of the clients are women between the ages of 35 and 65, some
from outside the United States. But one customer she would like
to see pay for the premium package to join her for a round is her
friend Tiger Woods, the men's world golf number one.


"I would love to see him come here and use the equipment, see him
swing here," Sorenstam said. "I don't think he has too much to
learn, but maybe he will come for the experience."

