

Dozens of journalists gathered at the international airport in
the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka early Tuesday amid swirling rumours
that former premier Khaleda Zia would leave the country.


Earlier, a source close to Zia -- who has been under virtual
house arrest since last week -- told AFP that the military-backed
government was trying to "blackmail" her into self-imposed exile
abroad by arresting her younger son.


A senior reporter for a leading Bangladeshi newspaper told AFP
that more than 100 journalists had filled the airport's main
lobby.


"All have gathered here after they were tipped that Khaleda Zia
would take a flight out of the country late Monday night," he
said.


Newspapers on Monday predicted that Zia -- whose five-year term
ended in October -- would leave the country as part of the new
government's anti-corruption drive launched in February.


Late Sunday, authorities arrested Zia's younger son Arafat Rahman
Coco at her Dhaka home, just one month after his brother Tareque
was taken into custody on charges of extortion.


"They arrested Arafat Rahman to blackmail her so that she leaves
the country," the source close to Zia told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


Local media have reported that the government is seeking to force
both Zia, leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), and
Sheikh Hasina Wajed, who heads the Awami League, into exile in a
bid to give the country a new start.


Hasina, who is currently in the United States, has been charged
with extortion and the murder of four political activists late
last year.


The two rivals and their parties have dominated Bangladeshi
politics since democracy was reintroduced in 1991.


Many, however, have grown tired of the endless political feuding
between the two parties and believe the country will not be able
to move forward until their stranglehold on power is broken.


The interim government took power in January after the country's
president declared a state of emergency and cancelled polls
scheduled for the same month following months of political
turmoil.


The new government vowed to clean up politics and carry out
sweeping reforms before announcing a new date for elections. So
far, more than 50 top politicians have been arrested.

