

Beleaguered US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales was to testify
Tuesday about his role in a raging scandal over the sacking of
eight federal prosecutors, amid allegations the firings were a
political purge by the White House.


The embattled top US prosecutor, who was to appear at a hearing
of a congressional committee reviewing his possible role in the
firings, has said he has "nothing to hide" in the probe.


The White House on Monday also once again voiced support for
Gonzales, a longtime adviser of US President George W. Bush's,
dating back to his days as Texas governor.


"The attorney general has the confidence of the president,"
Deputy White House Press Secretary Dana Perino told reporters.


"I think that the attorney general has answered and been fully
responsive to the Congress," she said ahead of Gonzales's
appearance Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee.


Most of the attorneys were sacked in one fell swoop last
December, ostensibly for poor performance, in some cases during
sensitive investigations.


Members of Congress learned however that all eight had received
good performance reviews -- fueling allegations that the
dismissals were politically motivated.


Gonzales declared in his statement Sunday that he was "committed
to assuring the Congress and the American public that nothing
improper occurred here."


"I know that I did not, and would not, ask for a resignation of
any individual in order to interfere with or influence a
particular prosecution for partisan political gain," he said.


Gonzales added that he "never sought to mislead or deceive"
Congress or the American people about the firings, which he said
he still believes were "appropriate."


There are some 93 US attorneys across the United States, each of
whom is appointed by the president and charged with bringing to
court federal criminal and civil crime cases.


Attorneys general are supposed to prosecute crimes independent of
political considerations, but the eight fired officials were
allegedly sacked because they failed to press their
investigations of Democrats, or because they appeared to be too
zealous in prosecuting Republicans.


Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, top Republican on the
panel told US television Sunday that Gonzales had a "steep hill
to climb" to convince lawmakers that he deserved to keep his job
-- although ultimately it is the president who must decide
whether he stays or goes.


US Senator Chuck Schumer, who has led Democrats' challenge of the
prosecutor firings, was not mollified by the attorney general's
statement.


"The opening statement of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales does
not advance his cause at all," Schumer said in prepared remarks
Sunday, adding that "not a single important question we have
asked is answered in his opening statement just released this
afternoon."


Schumer added: "The questions he is asked and the answers he will
give on Tuesday will be make or break for him."


Senators also were expected at Tuesday's hearing to concentrate
on the possible role in the firings played in the firings by Karl
Rove, Bush's chief political adviser.


The controversy has led to the disclosure about the disappearance
of relevant White House e-mails. Democrats are now asking if some
White House officials, beginning with Rove, may have destroyed
the documents to prevent them from falling in the hands of
Congress.


The New York Times in an editorial Sunday called for Rove to
appear before Congress to clear up the air.


"The only solution is to get these issues out into the open,"
Times editors wrote.


"Mr Rove, who seems to be at the heart of this affair, should
also be required to testify under oath, and in public," the daily
wrote.

