

At least 20 people were shot dead at a Virginia University Monday
in one of the deadliest school massacres in US history.


"We have a ballpark figure on fatalities. It's at least 20
fatalities," Virginia Tech Police Chief Wendell Flinchum told
reporters.


One of the dead was the gunman, but Flinchum had no information
as to whether he killed himself or had been killed by others.


"At this time we believe it was only one gunman," Flinchum said.
"He is deceased.


The university in Blacksburg, in western Virginia, was locked
down as police combed the campus after shootings in two separate
buidings, which went well beyond the toll of 15 dead in a
shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado in 1999.


University president Charels Steger called the shootings a
tragedy of "monumental proportion."


"The university is shocked and indeed horrified that this would
befall us," he said at a press conference hours after the morning
shootings.


Gunfire first broke out earlier Monday in a residence on the
campus of Virginia Tech, a university of about 25,000 students
located some 425 kilometers (264 miles) southwest of Washington.


Gunfire was then also heard in a second building, called the
Norris Hall.


"Those on campus are asked to remain where they are, lock their
doors and stay away from windows," the university initially
announced before it began evacuating the students and faculty in
waves.


Entrances to the campus were meanwhile closed as television
images showed heavily armed police rushing across the school
grounds in a light snowfall.


The shooting comes just days ahead of the anniversary of the
shooting rampage at Columbine in Littleton, Colorado on April 20,
1999.


Amy Steele, the chief editor of of the student newspaper, told
CNN that she had spoken to students in the buildings where the
shootings were heard, and was told many were running around in a
panic.


"The police officers were trying to, you know, settle everyone
down and keep everything under control," she said.


"One of the injuries happened from a student jumping out of a
window."


Last August Virigina Tech was the site of another shooting when
an escaped prisoner tried to hide on the campus, US media
reported.


A security guard and a policeman were killed before the man was
re-arrested. Virginia Tech's website also announced that a reward
of 5,000 dollars had been posted on Sunday for information
leading to the arrest of those behind two bomb hoaxes at the
campus on April 2 and 13.

