

From the country that gave you Riverdance, Ireland can now boast
The Chicken and The Ferret.


The Irish team's World Cup campaign, which has accounted for
Pakistan and Bangladesh, has also spawned a couple of new moves
which would definitely look out of place at all self-respecting
nightclubs.


Captain Trent Johnston celebrates the fall of a wicket with a
bizarre jig which involves leaping from one foot to the other
while flapping his arms.


"The chicken dance came out of when I am out on the dancefloor,
the guys say I look like a chicken so that's just a celebratory
dance I've given to the guys," said Johnston.


"And we also have Dave Langford-Smith who does the ferret as
well. It's just a bit of fun. We are out here having fun and
enjoying ourselves."


Langford-Smith, who, like Johnston is Australian, pioneered the
ferret at his wedding reception.


He then performed it at a party in Jamaica to celebrate the win
over Pakistan last month.It came out again in the victory against
Bangladesh.


The ferret looks a bit like the chicken except the arms do their
flapping behind the back not at the sides.


Thankfully, some cricketers have more style than others when it
comes to celebrating the downfall of an opponent.


Brett Lee is not just one of the world's fastest bowlers.


When the blond Aussie bomber knocked over a victim, it was
greeted with a vigorous leap that a high-jumper would have been
proud off before he would fall to his knees and perform his
famous 'chainsaw' action.


It has been widely imitated even stretching to the Commonwealth
Games in Melbourne last year when Aussie weightlifter Simon
Heffernan celebrated his silver medal with a combination of Brett
Lee and a little Lleyton Hewitt.


His successful lift led to the chainsaw, a double windmill, a
groin thrust and the Hewitt "c'mon" yell.


"The groin thrust was just wrong," said the 30-year-old.


"I wouldn't do that again. I think about Lleyton a bit. I don't
like how he carries on but I respect that he lives here and he is
a good husband. He doesn't live overseas and he pays his taxes.
But Brett Lee is my favourite."


Back on the cricket pitch, England fast bowler Simon Jones was in
hot water in the epic 2005 Ashes series after he was fined 1,000
pounds for the send-off he gave to Australian opener Matthew
Hayden in the second Test.


Jones was sanctioned for pointing Hayden back to the pavilion.


"Things happen in the heat of the moment and sometimes you can't
control what you're doing," said Jones.


"Someone else takes over and it's a great feeling but you may
look back on it and think, 'what was I doing?


"In future I'm going to have to learn maybe to calm myself down a
bit."


Stuart MacGill, the Australian leg-spinner who has spent in his
career in the shadow of Shane Warne, had the opposite problem to
Jones.


His actions at the crease were too tame, so he decided to take a
leaf out of Andrew Flintoff's book.


MacGill now raises his finger but insists it is not a 'send-off'
gesture.


"I was bored seeing the same picture in the paper," he said.


"I've been trying to think of something else so I thought I'd try
a Freddie and point to the sky."

