

President Rafael Correa on Monday basked in voter approval of his
plan to rewrite Ecuador's constitution by a margin larger than
five to one, pushing the South American country closer to his
socialist program.


According to official projections, 81.4 percent of votes cast
Sunday approved of convening a constituent assembly to draft a
new constitution, the Supreme Electoral Tribunal reported with
78.4 percent of votes counted.


"The referendum was a victory for not just one person, but for
the whole country," the president said at a news conference in
the southwestern port of Guayaquil.


"We hope the power of patriotism prevails in this assembly so
that we can make -- without the need for (political) deals and
alliances -- the deep reforms that this country needs," Correa
said.


Correa, 44, enjoys a 70 percent approval rating as Ecuador's
eighth president in a turbulent decade.


He joins presidents of Bolivia and Venezuela in tightening state
control over the economy, especially in gas and oil.


He has so far promised to overturn the neoliberal policies of his
predecessor and to throw the World Bank representative out of
Ecuador.


The economist president said that during his five-year term of
office he "will never allow the imposition of a foreign
development model" on the country.


Correa's remark appeared aimed at deflecting criticism that he
wants to take Ecuador down the path of his ally, Venezuela's
firebrand socialist president, Hugo Chavez, who rewrote
Venezuela's constitution in 1999.


Organization of American States Jose Miguel Insulza said he
"appreciated that voters went to the polling places in an
atmosphere of peace and freedom and declared their approval of
empaneling a constitutional convention."


The calm contrasted with jostling over recent weeks as protesters
stormed Congress, angered at lawmakers who opposed a new
constitution, which might require new elections.


Ecuadorans are to return to the polls within six months to elect
130 members to the assembly.


The text would be submitted to a national referendum in 2008.


"We are planning to win (control of) the constitutional
assembly," said ex- president Lucio Gutierrez, leader of the
Patriotic Society Party. "That will be the final battle."


The Institutional National Action Renewal Party said that its
candidates would try to stop "Chavez's autocratic model," said
leader Gloria Gallardo.


"A round of applause for president Correa," Chavez congratulated
Correa from Caracas. "That is how Latin America is moving
forward, from victory to victory, from triumph to triumph. They
are political, moral, economic and social victories."


Correa, speaking at the news conference, said he would expel the
World Bank's representative in Quito, accusing him of withholding
funds in retaliation for the government's oil-sector reforms.


"We will expel the World Bank representative from the country
because we are not going to take a bribe from anyone," Correa
said, without naming the official.


He said the World Bank official had tried to blackmail him when
he was economy minister in 2005 with a loan of 100 million
dollars.


The bank's current representative in Ecuador is Eduardo
Somensato.


"The Ecuadoran economy will be pigeonholed by all the
organizations as the worst bet in Latin America. As for
democracy, there is not doubt it is in grave danger," said
Osvaldo Hurtado, former president in 1981-1984 and head of the
Christian Democratic Union.


Political analyst Jorge Trujillo said: "The problem is Ecuador is
structurally fractured and each tendency acts on its own behalf."

