

Jury selection began Monday in the trial of US national Jose
Padilla, who is charged with conspiracy to commit terror but not
with the alleged radioactive bomb plot he was arrested for five
years ago.


Judge Marcia Cooke made it clear Padilla and two co-defendants
were not accused of any direct involvement in the September 11,
2001 terror attacks that killed about 3,000 people in the United
States.


"The events in this case have nothing to do with 9/11," she told
one of the potential jurors, asking him he if he would be able to
set aside any notion the attacks had anything to do with the
trial.


Prosecutors said they did not intend to link defendants with the
attacks, but stressed there would be testimony connecting them
with the Al-Qaeda terror network which is blamed for the attacks.


Padilla, 36, who spent three and a half years in military
detention without charges, is accused of plotting to murder,
kidnap and maim people in Afghanistan and elsewhere outside the
United States.


Padilla and co-defendants Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael
Jayyousi, are also charged with aiding a US-based Al-Qaeda terror
cell that supplied recruits and funding to Islamic extremists
abroad.


But the federal charges make no mention of the claim he planned
to detonate a "dirty bomb" in the United States. The allegation
was made by then-attorney general John Ashcroft after Padilla was
arrested in 2002, and was cited as a reason for keeping him in a
navy brig as an "enemy combatant."


Several of the 17 potential jurors interviewed on Monday said
they were unsure whether they could be unbiased.


"It would be difficult for me to keep an open mind when the
subject is terrorism," one of the potential panelists told the
court. Another linked Padilla with the alleged "dirty bomb" plot.


Several others said they had never heard of the case.


Padilla was clad in a gray suit rather than the khaki prison garb
he wore during pre-trial sessions.


Padilla's lawyers had tried to get the case dismissed over
allegations their client was tortured at a military prison from
2002 to 2005, but Cooke rejected the motion earlier this month,
saying there was no indication he had been mistreated by civilian
authorities.


A former Chicago gang member of Puerto Rican descent who
converted to Islam, Padilla was detained in May 2002 at Chicago's
O'Hare airport after returning from Pakistan, and was taken to a
naval base in South Carolina.


Padilla's lawyers alleged their client was so traumatized by his
treatment in military prison that he could not assist in his own
defense, but Cooke ruled he was fit to stand trial.


The subject of a fierce tug-of-war between the administration of
President George W. Bush and civil liberties groups, Padilla was
transferred to the civilian court system in 2005 after his
lawyers prepared to challenge his military detention before the
Supreme Court.


The government has not explained why his indictment makes no
mention of the alleged dirty bomb plot that had been cited as the
ground for Padilla's military detention as an "enemy combatant."


The indictment alleges he traveled abroad to train as a "jihad"
fighter and filled out an application to receive "violent jihad
training" while in Afghanistan in July 2000.


Padilla, also known as Abdullah al-Mujahir, has pleaded not
guilty to the charges. If convicted he could face life in prison.


Padilla, of Puerto Rican descent, was born in Brooklyn, New York,
and grew up in Chicago. He later moved to South Florida.

