

Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal received a
surprise boost against right-wing leader Nicolas Sarkozy as they
emerged neck-and-neck in a survey Monday ahead of France's
weekend vote.


With at least a third of the electorate undecided before Sunday's
first round, to be followed by a deciding run-off on May 6, the
final stretch of rallies and debates will play a crucial role in
influencing swing voters.


Royal, 53, and Sarkozy, 52, would each get 50 percent support if
they make it through to the second round after finishing in the
top two places in Sunday's first ballot, the poll said.


The survey -- conducted by CSA-Cisco for Le Parisien, Aujourd'hui
en France and I Tele -- said Sarkozy was projected to get 27
percent of the vote in the first round, followed by Royal at 25
percent.


Centrist leader Francois Bayrou was in third place at 19 percent
for the first round, ahead of far right-wing leader Jean-Marie Le
Pen at 15.5 percent.


France is choosing a successor to 74-year-old President Jacques
Chirac in an election widely seen as the most exciting and
important in a quarter of a century.


Twelve candidates are competing for the top job, including three
Trotskyites, a Communist, a Green and anti-capitalist campaigner
Jose Bove, a hunters' rights campaigner and a Catholic
nationalist.


Royal faces a tough challenge from the centrist candidate, the 55
-year-old former education minister Bayrou.


Bayrou's appeal on the left has been boosted by surveys
suggesting that he -- unlike Royal -- stands a good chance of
beating Sarkozy, the former interior minister, if he makes it to
the second-round run-off.


"For left-wing voters, the priority is to defeat Sarkozy," said
Roland Cayrol, director of the CSA polling institute. "Their
problem is finding the most effective vote to do so."


"The centre-left is the priority target in this final phase of
the campaign because it can make the difference," said Cayrol,
who believes that "everything is still possible" on Sunday.


Over the weekend Royal was forced to slap down calls from three
senior figures in her own camp for an alliance between her
Socialist Party and Bayrou's Union for French Democracy, saying
she had "nothing to negotiate, no deal to strike" with his party.


Bayrou, who initially welcomed the suggestion of an alliance as a
sign "things were moving," on Monday also ruled out any deal with
Royal before the first round, while stepping up his attacks on
Sarkozy.


Sarkozy's opponents accuse him of veering to the far-right to
poach voters from National Front (FN) right-wing leader Le Pen,
and say he is a divisive character with no chance of securing the
unity needed to reform the country.


Sarkozy's governing UMP party hit back on Monday, charging that
the "violence" of the attacks against him "conceal his opponents'
difficulty in carrying ideas for the country."


"Nicolas Sarkozy upsets a system... he crosses boundaries, and
that bothers the candidates of a system that they refuse to
change," said UMP spokeswomen Valerie Pecresse.


Meanwhile Le Pen, who beat the Socialist candidate into the run-
off against Chirac in 2002, promised a "big surprise" in Sunday's
vote, predicting that this time he could knock Sarkozy out of the
race.


Le Pen is currently fourth but experts says that some of his
supporters may be disguising themselves as Sarkozy voters in the
pre-election surveys.


Royal urged voters to choose a country where "human values are
more important that stock market values."


She told some 9,000 supporters in a packed hall in the city of
Nantes that she would bring change to France without the
"brutality" embodied by Sarkozy.

