

Crude prices fell in London on Monday due to profit-taking,
reversing gains won earlier on concerns over tight supplies of
motor fuel reserves in the United States, traders said.


Stockpiles of gasoline or petrol are in focus ahead of the peak-
demand driving season, starting at the end of May, when many
Americans take to their cars for summer vacations.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery dropped 93
cents to 67.70 dollars per barrel in London electronic deals.


Prices fell on "a little bit of profit taking," BNP Paribas
analyst Harry Tchilinguirian said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, lost one cent to 63.62 dollars per barrel in pit
trading.


Despite the losses investors remained concerned "over US gasoline
supply ahead of the peak summer driving," Sucden analyst Michael
Davies said.


He added: "Market participants are worried about falling US
gasoline supplies as a result of recent refinery outages."


Inventories of US gasoline plunged by 5.5 million barrels to
199.7 million barrels in the week to April 6, recent official
data showed.


That was the heaviest weekly drop since August 2003, according to
analysts, and compared with market expectations for a drop of
just 1.4 million barrels.


Noting the drop in oil inventories, the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) on Monday said it was maintaining its
forecast for growth of world oil demand in 2007 at 1.5 percent.


American refineries are unable to convert enough crude into
gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States, according to industry experts.


This has led to a persistent gap between North American and
European oil prices.


Dave Ernsberger, Asia director for Platts, the global energy
information provider, said the market was worried about the
amount of crude "just sloshing around" in the United States.


Aside from gasoline worries, traders looked to geopolitical
developments in Nigeria, which is Africa's largest producer of
crude.


At least 21 people died over the weekend during state polls in
Nigeria as tensions mounted in the volatile and sprawling west
African nation ahead of presidential and general elections next
Saturday.


Nigeria has seen its oil production slashed since last year owing
to disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign workers.


"The Nigerian presidential election will take place this coming
weekend and had been pinpointed for many months now as one of the
main geopolitical risks of 2007," added Petromatrix analyst
Olivier Jakob.

