

A new biofuel project will mean what's for dinner may also be
what goes in the fuel tank with ConocoPhillips and Tyson Foods
joining forces to make diesel fuel from animal byproducts.


The project announced Monday will produce "the next generation of
renewable diesel fuel," to help supplement petroleum-based diesel
fuel supplies, the companies said in a statement.


"The alliance plans to use beef, pork and poultry by-product fat
to create a transportation fuel," the statement said.


"This fuel will contribute to America's energy security and help
to address climate change concerns."


The companies revealed they have been collaborating over the past
year "on ways to leverage Tyson's advanced knowledge in protein
chemistry and production with ConocoPhillips' processing and
marketing expertise."


Arkansas-based Tyson, which claims to be the world's biggest
producer of chicken, beef and pork, will make capital
improvements this summer in order to begin pre-processing animal
fat from some of its North American rendering facilities later in
the year.


ConocoPhillips, a Houston, Texas-based oil and gas group, will
make the necessary capital expenditures to enable it to produce
the fuel at several of its refineries.


"The finished product will be renewable diesel fuel mixtures that
meet all federal standards for ultralow-sulfur diesel," the joint
statement said.


The project is expected to produce as much as 175 million gallons
(661 million liters) per year of renewable diesel.


The companies said the animal fats will be processed with
hydrocarbon feedstocks using a proprietary "thermal
depolymerization production technology."


They said the addition of animal fat "also improves the fuel's
ignition properties, while the processing step improves its
storage stability and handling characteristics."


The fuel will be able to be used in cars and trucks that
currently use diesel and may be produced and distributed by
existing refineries and fuel distribution systems.


"ConocoPhillips believes the key to a secure energy future is the
development and efficient use of diverse energy sources," said
Jim Mulva, ConocoPhillips chairman and chief executive officer.


"This alliance will provide a new and significant contribution to
our nation's domestic renewable fuel supply.


"It also offers an excellent opportunity to use our company's
manufacturing expertise and advanced technology to help increase
the supply of renewable fuels and to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions."


Last week, ConocoPhillips joined the US Climate Action
Partnership (USCAP), a business group dedicated to the quick
enactment of legislation to require significant reductions of
greenhouse gas emissions. It became the first major oil company
to join the group.

