

Angry protesters in cities across India burned effigies of actor
Richard Gere on Monday after he showered Bollywood starlet Shilpa
Shetty with kisses at an AIDS awareness event, officials said.


Right-wing Hindus burned effigies of the 57-year-old Gere in
India's entertainment hub of Mumbai and organised street rallies
in the capital New Delhi one day after Gere's public display of
affection, seen as taboo here.


"This is against Indian ethos... Don't touch our women," the
demonstrators screamed in New Delhi, the Press Trust of India
(PTI) news agency reported.


Similar protests erupted in other cities like Benaras, Bhopal,
Kanpur and Indore, with demonstrators demanding an apology from
the silver-haired Hollywood actor, PTI said.


At an AIDS awareness function in New Delhi on Sunday, Gere
embraced the 31-year- old Shetty -- winner of Britain's Celebrity
Big Brother reality show -- and kissed her several times on the
cheek in front of 4,000 onlookers.


"Such a public display is not part of Indian tradition," said the
spokesman for the opposition Hindu nationalist BJP party, Prakash
Javadekar.


Security was beefed up around Gere, who has starred in Hollywood
hits like "Pretty Woman", "An Officer and a Gentleman" and
"American Gigolo", sources at India's home ministry said.


"Since he is a guest we have to provide him protection and it's
for the police to judge whether he committed an indecent act," a
ministry source told AFP.


Shetty called for calm, telling a news conference in Mumbai:
"Richard called me three times to apologise, saying he is sorry
if he has hurt the sentiments of Indian people.


"This is not how we treat our guests and it's my humble appeal to
all my fans who have taken it very personally to ignore this."


Gere became an AIDS awareness campaigner in the early 1980s when
a friend died of the disease, focusing his efforts on India,
Russia and China.


India has the largest number of HIV-AIDS cases in the world, with
5.7 million people infected, according to the Geneva-based
UNAIDS.

