

US banking powerhouse Citigroup said its latest quarterly profits
fell 11 percent as it set aside cash for a major overhaul of its
worldwide operations and at least 17,000 job losses.


Despite cooling profits, Citigroup -- one of the world's biggest
financial houses -- still raked in a hefty 5.01 billion dollars
in profits during its first-quarter reporting period.


Days after unveiling a global putsch by top executives to
overhaul its operations, Citigroup reported earnings amounting to
1.01 dollars per share, or 1.18 dollars excluding one-time costs,
against market expectations of 1.09 dollars a share.


The latest profit snapshot includes a previously disclosed charge
of 1.38 billion dollars that will help pay for the overhaul and
thousands of severance packages as Citigroup seeks to make itself
a more streamlined, nimbler bank.


"We achieved these results while completing our structural
expense review, which will help us become a leaner, more
efficient organization and lower our rate of expense growth,"
said chairman and chief executive Charles Prince.


Although Citigroup's quarterly profits have slowed over the past
two quarters, Wall Street appeared to cheer its latest earnings
as the firm's shares surged 1.20 dollars, or over two percent, to
52.80 dollars in early afternoon deals.


Revenues surged 15 percent to a record 25 billion dollars, driven
by swelling business volumes, but also by surging investment
banking and trading turnover.


Prince, who has come under shareholder pressure to rein in costs,
said  changes in Citigroup's operations will be driven by new
acquisitions and efforts "in expanding our distribution and
enhancing our technology as we build a broad, strong foundation
for future growth."


Expenses have ballooned in the past year partly as Citigroup has
raced to open hundreds of new bank branches in the US and
overseas while seeking to fend off fierce domestic competition
from arch-rival Bank of America.


The company opened 51 new US bank branches during the quarter,
and 48 new branches internationally.


Citigroup has acquired British-based Egg, Ltd., an internet bank,
and is vying to takeover the scandal-hit Japanese securities firm
Nikko Cordial. It has also expanded its presence in fast-growing
China.


Amid a slump in the US housing market, Citigroup also reported an
increase in net credit losses of 164 million dollars which the
bank said was partly related to rising mortgage delinquencies.


Fears are mounting that growing home foreclosures across the
United States could reverberate through Wall Street after several
sizeable mortgage lenders have gone out of business in recent
months.


Global consumer deposits, held in Citigroup accounts spanning the
Americas, Europe and Asia, rose 12 percent during the quarter
while worldwide loans increased 11 percent.


Revenues from the bank's international franchises spiked 18
percent.

