

Frank Lampard expects Chelsea to shrug off the strains of their
gruelling schedule and come out with all guns blazing as they try
to keep the pressure on Premiership leaders Manchester United.


Jose Mourinho's side are still on course for an unprecedented
quadruple after their herculean efforts against Valencia and
Blackburn last week.


But there is no let-up in Chelsea's hectic fixture list and by
the time they kick off at West Ham on Wednesday they could be six
points behind United, who play Sheffield United 24 hours earlier.


The reigning English champions managed to haul their weary bodies
through extra- time to see off Blackburn in Sunday's FA Cup semi-
final just five days after snatching a dramatic Champions League
win in Valencia.


Mourinho insists he has few options to rest his key players, so
the likes of Lampard, Didier Drogba, John Terry and Michael
Essien will have to find a way to battle through the pain barrier
over the final month of the campaign.


With so much at stake, England midfielder Lampard has no doubts
his team-mates will rise to the challenge of going head to head
with United, who they also face in the FA Cup final.


"The quadruple is still on but there are a lot of tough games
between now and the end of the season," Lampard told Sky Sports.
"We will need character and quality if we are going to get
anywhere near winning them all.


"It is obvious there is a shoot-out in the league and the FA Cup
now, we know that. The Champions League is different, we both
have tough semi-finals and are not thinking we will be in the
final of that competition yet.


"Everything is an incentive this year because we are fighting on
so many fronts. It would be nice to get the FA Cup in the bag
considering what we have done with the League Cup and the
Premiership.


"Although we have been very strong over the last couple of
seasons, the FA Cup stands out as the one we haven't got."


The trip to struggling West Ham is guaranteed to be a ferocious
affair as the two London rivals desperately need the points for
differing reasons.


While Chelsea chase United, West Ham are embroiled in a fight for
survival at the other end of the table.


Upton Park will be no place for the faint-hearted and Lampard, a
former West Ham player, has warned his colleagues what to expect.


"It will be a hot atmosphere but we cannot afford to lose points
in the title race," he said. "Both teams are desperate to win and
I think it is going to be a bit of a war to be honest.


"It is very important after all the hard work we've done recently
we don't let it go in one game. It will be a very tough match for
us, make no mistake about that."


That Chelsea are still in contention on all fronts is a tribute
to the way Mourinho has handled a traumatic season scarred by
injuries to key players and his frosty relationship with Blues
owner Roman Abramovich.


The sudden detente between the pair after Sunday's match, when
they exchanged a brief hug in their first meeting since January,
seemed to hint at an amicable resolution to the feud.


However, John Terry's revelation that talks over the Chelsea
captain's contract extension have broken down will hardly have
eased the tension behind the scenes at Stamford Bridge.


West Ham are five points from safety with just five games to
play, but Australia defender Lucas Neill - who may be regretting
his decision to quit Blackburn earlier in the season and snub
Liverpool for the Hammers - insists a win against Chelsea could
spark a great escape.


"We still need three wins and we've got five games in which to do
it," Neill said. "Three of the matches are at home and are all
winnable in my opinion.


"I hope the atmosphere will be bubbling against Chelsea.
Naturally you raise your game against teams like that, and I
expect there will be lots of passion and commitment.


"As long as we control our aggression, we can get something from
the game. We have beaten Arsenal away. Who says we can't beat
Chelsea at home?"

