

The United States pressed Iran over the weekend for information
about a former FBI agent reported missing in the Islamic Republic
for more than a month, US officials said.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack indicated some
frustration with the Iranians' failure to provide information on
the whereabouts of Robert Levinson, a retired FBI agent who went
missing during a trip to the Iranian Gulf resort of Kish island
in early March.


"Over the weekend we did send another message via the Swiss to
the Iranian government asking for an answer as to what they know
of his whereabouts," McCormack said.


"From all the information we have been able to gather, we believe
that he is in Iran so we have gone back to the government after
what we thought was a sufficient interval for them to conduct an
investigation and ask them to give us an answer," he said.


The United States has not maintained direct diplomatic relations
with Iran since 1980. Switzerland acts as an intermediary between
the two states.


Asked if Washington was concerned Levinson may be in Iranian
custody, McCormack said the US had no "solid or credible
information about his whereabouts."


US officials on Friday were unable to confirm if Levinson was
still in Iran, but McCormack said further investigations over the
weekend indicated the US citizen was likely still in the country.


"To the best of our knowledge we have been able to determine that
he went there ... and we have not seen any evidence that he
left," he said.


The United States has already asked Iran twice for information on
Levinson.


On April 4, Tehran asked Washington for further details of the
case, but it had not been in touch since.


Levinson is believed to have gone missing after visiting Kish, a
small island off Iran's southern coast that has grown into a
major resort and consumer duty- free trade zone.


US press reports said he was researching a documentary film.


The incident comes amid growing tensions between Iran and the
United States over Tehran's alleged support for anti-US forces in
Iraq and its suspected nuclear weapons program.

