

Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne, facing calls for his
resignation, apologised in parliament Monday for a decision to
allow 15 sailors captured by Iran to sell their stories.


Five times, Browne accepted full responsibility in front of MPs
for allowing the naval personnel to sell their accounts to the
press, which critics say has sullied the image and integrity of
Britain's armed forces.


Browne acknowledged that he should not have approved a Royal Navy
request on April 5 -- the day the group returned to Britain --
for them to be paid for interviews.


"I made a mistake. I have been completely open about that and to
the extent that what happened ... has caused people to question
the hard-won reputation of the armed forces, that is something I
profoundly regret," he said.


"But I remind people that precisely because this reputation is
hard won, it is not easily undermined."


Faye Turney, the only female detainee, reportedly received around
100,000 pounds (147,000 euros, 196,000 dollars) for interviews
with The Sun tabloid, and commercial broadcaster ITV.


The row has caused disquiet among the governing Labour Party
ranks and the armed forces, while the leader of the main
opposition Conservative Party, David Cameron, has said Browne
needs to justify his handling of the affair or quit.


Browne gave a full explanation of events leading up to the
group's seizure on March 12, diplomatic efforts to release them
and the handling of what he said was the "intense" media interest
in their stories.


Two separate reviews are being carried out, one on the group's
capture and another on the defence ministry's handling of the
media. The first is expected to take about six weeks, he added.


"As we go through this process, we should remember the most
important thing in this is that we got our people back safe and
on our terms," he said.


Iran seized the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines
in the northern Gulf on March 23, alleging they had entered the
country's territorial waters illegally.


Some of the group were shown on Iranian television making
confessions about their "mistake". They were released two weeks
later in what Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said was an
Easter "gift" to Britain.


But after their return, two of the group -- the only woman,
Leading Seaman Faye Turney, and Operator Maintainer Arthur
Batchelor -- sold their stories to newspapers and a television
outlet. Turney received a reported six-figure sum.


The furore that followed provoked criticism from relatives of
British soldiers killed in Iraq, politicians and military
figures.


The opposition Conservative Party's defence spokesman Liam Fox
told parliament he thought Browne's position had become
"untenable" because his decisions did not command confidence.


Home Secretary John Reid has acknowledged that Browne's job was
"on the line" and Prime Minister Tony Blair has said the decision
was "not a good idea".


But commentators say Browne is likely to survive, if only because
Blair is in the last weeks of his premiership and is unlikely to
want to reorganise senior ministerial posts.


Browne also went into the Commons debate with the full backing of
all the country's defence chiefs, Blair's official spokesman said
earlier.

