

British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Monday backed a Dutch
proposal for the European Union to push for changes to existing
treaties rather than a whole new constitution.


Flanked by his visiting Dutch counterpart Jan Peter Balkenende,
he said the Dutch proposal for an "amending" treaty would ease
popular fears of a European superstate trampling over national
constitutions.


A constitutional treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making
among an enlarged EU has been in political limbo since it was
rejected in referenda in France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Blair has promised to hold a referendum in Britain but his
official spokesman said there would be no need for one here if
the EU agreed to proceed with an amending treaty rather than a
constitution.


In a joint press conference with Balkenende, Blair said such a
treaty would be within the tradition of existing European
treaties "that makes the rules of the European Union work more
effectively" for the enlarged 27-member EU.


He opposed a constitutional treaty that amounted to a whole "new
set of legal principles".


Blair said he backed the draft before the Dutch parliament which
he said calls for an amending treaty "but not a treaty with the
characteristics of a constitution".


While the Dutch and French have rejected the original draft
treaty, 18 EU states have ratified it and others are still
mulling it over.


"We have to find a solution together," Balkenende said.
"Therefore it is important that we really make progress in June
when we have a meeting of the European Council, and that I really
hope we can get a clear roadmap."


The German government, which currently holds the rotating EU
presidency, plans to present EU leaders in June with a roadmap to
adopt a new constitutional treaty.


Blair said: "I think people can identify very clearly the things
that give rise to a European superstate that we do not want...
and those things that are necessary in order to make Europe work
more effectively."


He said Dutch calls for a bigger role for national parliaments
would help soothe concerns.


"Given the political reality not just in our two countries, but
in Europe, it's sensible to go back to a more traditional way of
doing things," the British prime minister said.

