

The Archbishop of York John Sentamu, the second most senior
cleric in the Church of England, will hold a prayer vigil on
Tuesday for Alan Johnston, the BBC reporter kidnapped in Gaza.


Sentamu described the vigil as an appeal to the journalist's
kidnappers to let him go, along with a prayer "for those who
think violence is the answer to the problems of the Middle East."


Palestinian officials said on Monday they still had no
confirmation of a claim by an obscure Islamist group that it had
killed Johnston in Gaza, as his parents said they were
desperately worried about him.


Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and Unity),
claimed in a statement on Sunday to have killed the 44-year-old
reporter, whose whereabouts have remained unknown since he was
forced at gunpoint from his car in Gaza City five weeks ago.


"The purpose of this vigil is twofold," Sentamu said.


"First it is an appeal to those who have kidnapped Alan to let
him free ... In addition to praying for Alan's safe release, my
prayer will also be for those who think violence is the answer to
the problems of the Middle East."


Sentamu described Johnston as someone who had "come to represent
all those who put their lives at risk in an attempt to inform the
wider world of the daily dangers faced by those in places such as
Palestine."


The vigil was set to take place at 3 pm (1400 GMT) at Sentamu's
official residence in York, northern England. He had previously
called for Johnston's release in his Easter address.


No Westerner has so far been killed after being abducted in Gaza,
where hostages are generally used to lever concessions from the
authorities and are usually released unharmed within days of
their kidnapping.


Johnston, one of the few Western journalists to both live and
work in Gaza, was abducted at gunpoint on March 12 as he drove
home from work, just weeks before his three-year posting was due
to end.


He has been with the BBC for 16 years and has also reported from
Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, and is one of a number of Western
journalists and aid workers to have been kidnapped in Gaza in
recent years.

