

A dispute between a family of Jehovah's Witnesses and medical
workers over blood transfusions given to premature sextuplets
moved to a Canadian court Monday, pitting religious freedoms
against child protection laws.


The family has gone to court backed by the Jehovah's Witnesses
religious organization to argue that their religious rights were
violated after social workers seized three of the babies weeks
after they were born so that doctors could treat them, despite
the parents' objections.


Jehovah's Witnesses oppose blood transfusions because they
believe that "our creator commands us in scriptures such as (the
Bible's) Acts 15:28-29 to abstain from blood products," the
sextuplet's father said in an affidavit earlier this year.


The tiny babies were born 15 weeks premature in early January in
Canada's westernmost province. Two of the six died shortly after
birth, and fearing for the lives of the others, health officials
gained a court order to seize three of them and gave them blood
transfusions a part of their care.


Today one of the surviving four remains in hospital and three are
now at home with their parents.


With their identity kept secret under a court-ordered publication
ban, the parents and their religious backers have contested the
seizure of their children, saying it violated their religious
rights.


Canada's top court previously ruled that treatment considered
standard and medically necessary can be given to a person who is
not competent to decide for themselves against the wishes of a
guardian, and that guardians cannot impose values that differ
from community values on the patient.


But the courts have also ruled that the guardians must be
consulted. "In some circumstances, time is of the essence and you
don't have that luxury," a spokesman for the provincial
government told AFP.


In the case opening Monday, the Supreme Court of British Columbia
is being asked to rule on whether the government followed "due
process" in seizing the babies, and whether blood transfusions
were medically necessary, said Eike-Henner Kluge, a bioethicist
at the University of Victoria who is familiar with the case.


When medical staff consider a child at risk because parents
refuse to consent to treatment, "the health care worker has a
legal obligation to report that to a child protection worker,"
said Marisa Nichini, spokesperson for the British Columbia
Women's Hospital and Health Centre, speaking generally.


"The issues are clear in terms of law and ethics," said Kluge.
"The question is only in the end if due process was being
followed."


The court will also hear the complex question of medical
necessity, as doctors and the Jehovah's Witness argue over the
science of blood transfusions and alternatives.

