

Workers at Skoda Auto, the Czech Republic's biggest car maker,
will strike on Tuesday as part of their campaign for better pay
and conditions, the head of the carmakers' biggest union, Kovo,
told AFP on Monday.


"Workers will stop work for two and a half hours at various
plants and on various shifts. It appears that all production for
Tuesday will be cancelled," Kovo union head, Josef Stredula,
explained.


Skoda Auto board member Martin Jahn had held out the prospect of
last-ditch negotiations on Sunday to avert a strike at the
Volkswagen Group company, but Stredula said the talks on Monday
had been "technical" and inconclusive.


Skoda could lose daily production of around 2,500 cars and around
60 million koruna (2.15 million euros, 2.90 million dollars) due
to Tuesday's action according to Czech media reports.


Unions and management were due to meet again Wednesday but
further industrial action could be called this week if there is
no breakthrough, Stredula added.


Last week, unions refused a management offer of 10-percent base
salary increases and other bonuses that would result in total
raises of 13 percent over the period of April 2007 to April 2009.


After unions announced the decision to strike, management reduced
the proposed 10-percent raises to 7.5 percent.


Skoda management stoked union anger by threatening that car
engine production currently carried out in the Czech Republic
could be moved to Volkswagen's Wolfsburg, Germany, headquarters,
Stredula said.


"It is illogical, but those sort of things come up during
negotiations," he added.


The average monthly salary for Skoda Auto workers is 22,057
koruna (789 euros, 1,100 dollars), according to unions.


Based in Mlada Boleslav, about 55 kilometres (35 miles) northeast
of Prague, Skoda Auto employs some 26,000 employees. Kovo says
around 18,000 are its members.


The company earned record net profits of 11.06 billion koruna
(392 million euros, 530 million dollars) last year, an increase
of 40 percent over the previous year.


It is the Czech Republic's largest exporter, responsible for 7.7
percent of total sales abroad last year.

