

A gunman pumped bullets into a dormitory and classrooms at a US
university Monday, reportedly killing 32 and injuring dozens in
the bloodiest school shooting in US history, authorities said.


Fox News reported that 32 people were killed and at least 28
wounded in the attacks at Virginia Tech University, some 425
kilometers (264 miles) southwest of Washington, but there was no
official confirmation.


The university website confirmed 22 people had been killed.


Police said the gunman had died after the rampage in a dormitory
at Virginia Tech and a separate, much deadlier, fusillade in a
building housing engineering classrooms two hours later.


Student Michael O'Brien told Fox News he was walking across the
school's drill field when he heard a gunshot and saw students
scrambling out of the building.


"You could see students carrying what looked like bodies out of
Norris Hall (the engineering building) and there were ambulances
out there that drove down to pick them up and sped off towards
the hospital."


The White House, which earlier said US President George W. Bush
was "horrified" by the carnage, announced he would make at
statement at 4:15 pm (2015 GMT).


The university reported on its website that a total of 22 people
had been confirmed killed, surpassing the 15 who died in the
April 1999 shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado that
shocked the nation and world.


Even with 22 dead, Monday's shooting rampage is overshadowed only
by a 1927 bombing at a Michigan school that killed 38 children
and seven teachers.


Police gave only sketchy details of the carnage that started
around 7:15 am (1115 GMT) when the gunman walked into a dormitory
at the 135-year-old university and opened fire, killing at least
one person.


The others were killed later in the classroom building. Virginia
Tech Police Chief Wendell Flinchum gave no details of the horror,
but said people died in "multiple locations" in the building.


One student told CNN that the gunman entered the second building,
chained the doors closed and began shooting into each classroom.


Local television quoted witnesses as saying the gunman was a
young Asian man, but little else was known about the shooter,
including whether or not he was a student.


"At this time we believe it was only one gunman. He is deceased,"
Flinchum said, without elaborating on the circumstances of his
death.


Virginia Tech canceled classes and locked down the sprawling
engineering and research university which has some 28,000
students and more than 100 buildings spread across 2,600 acres
(1,040 hectares). The university hosts students from 35 countries
and foreign students make up seven percent of the student body.


Counseling centers were set up for students as the authorities
evacuated the campus and started the process of recovering from
what university president Charles Steger called a tragedy of
"monumental proportion."


"The university is shocked and indeed horrified that this would
befall us," Steger told a news conference. "I cannot begin to
convey my own personal sense of loss over this senseless and
incomprehensible heinous act."


The chaos was captured in dramatic cell phone video footage that
picked up the clatter of bullets fired in the attack, which came
just days ahead of the anniversary of the shooting rampage at
Columbine on April 20, 1999.


Television showed heavily armed police rushing across the grounds
in a light snowfall while witnesses reported scenes of terror and
panic with school officials urging people to stay indoors.


"The police officers were trying to, you know, settle everyone
down and keep everything under control," Amy Steele, chief editor
of the student newspaper, told CNN. "One of the injuries happened
from a student jumping out of a window."


The incident renewed concern over school security and access to
guns that was rekindled last year by a rash of shootings.
Virginia Tech itself was no stranger to violence.


In August, an escaped prisoner tried to hide on the campus, US
media reported. A security guard and a policeman were killed
before the man was re-arrested.


Virginia Tech's website also announced that a reward of 5,000
dollars had been posted on Sunday for information leading to the
arrest of those behind two bomb hoaxes at the campus on April 2
and 13.

