

Tim Henman on Monday questioned the make-up of the ATP after
losing 7-5, 6-2 in the first round to former champion Juan-Carlos
Ferrero at the Monte Carlos Masters.


The Briton, who admitted that back pain from playing in the Davis
Cup was still a problem, joined in the calm approach of Roger
Federer, who had strongly urged ATP officials to start listening
to the voice of the players.


Federer and rival Rafael Nadal earlier in the day presented a
unified stand from top competitors concerned that the men's
sanctioning body is rushing to revise the circuit by 2009.


Those plans looks to include a downgrade of the Masters Series
status of the historic Monte Carlo event.


"This is a scream for help," said the Swiss.


Henman, who admitted he didn't have an answer either, said that
pure player representation may be diluted under the current
composition of the ATP - 50 percent player and 50 percent
tournament.


"Are we as players not better off being represented on our own? I
don't know the answer, maybe there's a logical one why. I think
there are quite a few players that feel perhaps we would be
better off being a separate organisation."


Henman said that his back pain had limited him to an hour of
practise at Monte Carlo - without any stressful serving.


"My back's been pretty sore," said the 32-year-old. "I guess I'll
have to rest a bit and get ready for Rome (starting May 7)."


Since making a late start in February due to a knee injury,
Henman has won just one of five ATP matches.


Argentine David Nalbandian won his first clay match of the
season, rallying past Italian Federico Luzzi 3-6, 6-2, 6-1.


The ninth seed lost both of his round-robin contests in Buenos
Aires two months ago but kick-started his pre-French Open
campaign with the first-round victory over the 133rd-ranked
Luzzi.


"I was playing the Davis Cup against Sweden on a very fast court,
the start of the match was hard," said the winner. "I had to
adapt to clay after a slow start."


Two competitors advanced easily as their opponents retired, with
former Roland Garros champion Carlos Moya out and floundering
Frenchman Gael Monfils unable to continue with a knee problem.


Moya, finalist on the surface at Acapulco in February, was also
beaten in the first round here during the past two years. He
played the 2002 final against Ferrero.


Russian 13th seed Mikhail Youzhny accounted for the injured Moya,
leading 6-2, 3-1 when the Spaniard retired, while Czech Radek
Stepanek spent only 42 minutes on court against the inefficient
Monfils, holding a 6-2, 2-0 lead before the French youngster
packed it in.


Max Mirnyi of Belarus used his big serving game to great effect
as he knocked out former Australian Open finalist Marcos
Baghdatis, the 14th seed, 7-5, 6-4.


It was a mixed day for France, with Marc Gicquel defeating German
Florian Mayer 7-5, 5-7, 7-5. But Belgian Kristof Vliegen put out
Paul-Henri Mathieu in a straightforward 7-5, 6-3.


Former French Open champion Gaston Gaudio beat Russian Dmitry
Tursunov 5-7, 6-2, 6-2 while's Russia's Igor Andreev reached the
second round over Jose Acasuso 6-4, 6-1.

