

Student Tiffany Otay will long remember the chilling sense of
dread she felt as she huddled with classmates in a room at
Virginia Tech University while death stalked the hallways below.


"I guess everybody was like freaking out, hysterical," Otay told
CNN after a gunman, apparently acting alone, struck down 32 other
people before dying himself in the worst school shooting rampage
in US history.


"At one point we heard screaming because people were running out
of the building and at this point, we were all kind of
frightened," Otay said. "Who knows if the shooter was going to
come up to the next floor?"


Blood, confusion and panic filled the campus of the venerable
southern university on a blustery spring morning as the gunman
first opened fire in a dormitory, and then surfaced two hours
later in an engineering studies hall, where most of the deaths
occurred.


"This is an emergency. This is an emergency. Take shelter indoors
immediately. Stay away from windows and remain inside,"
loudspeakers blared across the 2,600-acre (1,040 hectare) campus.


The chaos was captured in dramatic cell phone video footage that
picked up the clatter of bullets fired in the attack, far
deadlier than the notorious 1999 shooting rampage at Columbine
High School in Colorado.


Television showed heavily armed police rushing across the grounds
under a light snowfall and a fleet of ambulances pulling up while
students huddled for safety, furiously exchanging e-mails and
text messages.


A student who identified himself only as "Paul" posted on the web
an account provided by his girlfriend Kate who was in class in
Norris Hall when the gunman burst in and sent students scrambling
for cover beneath the desks.


"He then shot at the class somewhere between eight to 12 times
and then left," Paul said, adding that Kate was hit by a stray
bullet in the hand. But she and another student managed to
barricade the door.


"The gunman came back and tried to get in, but because of the
barricade couldn't and proceeded to shoot at the door at hip
level, while Kate was, and the other classmates were, at ground
level," Paul said.


Kostayne Link told the Roanoke Times she was headed to a class in
Norris Hall when some 15 police cars passed by with their sirens
blaring, followed by two ambulances and a team of police
commandos.


"We heard a couple gunshots and we started running," she said.
"Everyone was sprinting away. There were literally, like, 300,
400 students just running away from the site. They just told us
all to get going, and we started running."


As the magnitude of the carnage became evident, the campus
community, relatives and friends started to pull together.
Student Matt Waldron got a phone call from a friend in another
fire zone -- Iraq.


"He's a soldier over there, just making sure that everybody is
okay," Waldron told CNN. "I'm sure today everybody got a lot of
calls from their family and friends, concerning the situation.
It's a tragedy."


Little is known of the gunman who carried out the assault other
than vague references by some students to him as Asian looking.
Nor was there any word on how he prepared and carried out the
attack.


But fingers were already being pointed at the gun culture
prevalent in the state of Virginia and in particular at Virginia
Tech University which is home to a proud tradition of military
cadets.


School authorities set up counseling centers for students to help
them recover from the emotional shock of what university
president Charles Steger called a disaster of "monumental
proportion."


But for students like Tiffany Otay, recalling the ordeal of
Norris Hall, the healing will take quite a while.


"I really don't want to go back to campus anytime soon," she
said. "Especially to that building."

