

The United States on Monday rejected claims by Russia that it was
to blame for North Korea's failure to meet a key deadline to
begin shutting down its nuclear weapons programme.


Moscow had accused Washington of failing to unblock 25 million
dollars in North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank, which
Pyongyang had demanded be released before it would begin
disarming in line with a multilateral deal.


But State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Russia's
assessment was "just not an accurate description of the
situation."


"It's clear that this is an issue with the North Koreans and
their banker," McCormack told reporters.


"The ball is in the North Koreans' court and we'll see what they
do."


The North insisted Friday it would begin shutting down and
sealing its Yongbyon nuclear reactor and readmit UN atomic
inspectors once it had retrieved the funds from Banco Delta Asia,
frozen under US-inspired sanctions.


But there has been no word since then on when and how the cash
transfer will be made, and a Saturday deadline for the shutdown
of the Yongbyon facility passed without any progress.


The US says the funds were freed for collection last week.


But in Moscow, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov
said Washington was "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems."


"We cannot move forward as long as the North Korean side says
that it has not received the money," he was quoted as saying by
the Interfax news agency.


"We need to talk not about deadlines but about fulfilling these
agreements".


In tandem with the six-party disarmament accord reached in
February, the United States undertook to try to settle the row
over the Macau accounts, which were frozen in 2005 on suspicion
of money-laundering and counterfeiting.


While McCormack said Washington and its negotiating partners were
willing to give North Korea some days to act, as requested by
China, they expected movement soon.


"The patience of all the members of the six-party talks is
finite, but certainly we are ready to see how this will play out
in coming days," he said.


There were signs of frustration among other countries involved in
the six-party talks -- South Korea and Japan -- which began in
2003.


South Korean newspapers said Seoul was considering delaying the
shipment of crucial bilateral rice aid to the North until it
takes action.


Meanwhile, Japan urged speedy progress.


"Although the deadline has passed it is still extremely important
for North Korea to take initial action as soon as possible,"
warned Noriyuki Shikata, a foreign ministry spokesman, on Sunday.


North Korea tested its first atomic weapon last October, lending
urgency to the negotiations.


In February the six nations reached a deal under which Pyongyang
agreed to disable its programmes in exchange for one million
tonnes of fuel oil or equivalent aid, plus security and
diplomatic benefits.


Under the first phase, it was by April 14 to have shut down and
sealed its Yongbyon reactor, which produces the raw material to
make plutonium for nuclear weapons. UN atomic inspectors were to
have witnessed the shutdown.


But the deadline slipped due to the cash row.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon has said the issue
may be wider than just the Macau accounts, saying the North
wanted to "be able to enter the normal international financial
network and engage in normal transactions" once it had retrieved
the funds.


The US decision in 2005 to blacklist the Macau bank for handling
allegedly suspect funds prompted banks elsewhere in Asia to cut
financial ties with the North -- creating problems with even its
legitimate funds.

