

US President George W. Bush, ahead of talks with lawmakers
pushing for an Iraq withdrawal timetable, warned Monday that he
would reject a pending war-funding bill if it comes with a
deadline.


Two days before hosting congressional leaders, Bush accused
Democrats who have attached a 2008 withdrawal timeline to the
president's 100-billion spending request of trying to "legislate
defeat in this vital war."


"The consequences of failure would be death and destruction in
the Middle East and here in America," he warned. "I hope the
Democratic leadership will drop their unreasonable demands for a
precipitous withdrawal."


Democrats, who harnessed anger at the Iraq war to capture the US
Congress last November, have been working to reconcile the House
of Representatives and Senate versions of the spending measure
and send a compromise for Bush to sign.


"Congress is committed to fully funding our troops, changing the
course in Iraq and responsibly ending the war," said Democratic
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.


"The president has a choice to make in the coming days: Cling to
the discredited policies that have led our troops further into an
intractable civil war or work with a bipartisan majority of
Congress to make us more secure."


Democrats say they want a pull-out deadline. The White House,
meanwhile, has made clear that Bush has no plans to compromise
when he receives congressional leaders from both parties at the
White House on Wednesday.


Bush has previously repeatedly said that he will veto any
legislation that aims to impose a withdrawal timetable, equating
such a step to automatic defeat, while criticizing lawmakers for
attaching funds unrelated to the war to the overall bill.


Separately, the White House said that Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki could keep his beleaguered coalition government
together even after radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr withdrew his
six ministers.


"Coalitions in those types of parliamentary democracies can come
and go," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said as Sadr, a
Shiite hardliner, pushed his demand for a rapid withdrawal of US
troops.


"If the Sadrists were to leave the government -- obviously
they've said they would before and I understand that they have
done that this morning -- that does not mean that Maliki loses
his majority. I think that's an important thing to remember,"
Perino told reporters.


Sadr -- who has not been seen in public since October -- was
angered last week when street protests failed to persuade Maliki
to set a timeline for American forces to go home.


Sadr's bloc is the largest single political group in Maliki's
fragmenting coalition, but the prime minister will be able to
cling to power if he keeps the support of smaller Shiite and
Kurdish groups.


Bush made no mention of that development, which comes as he has
deployed what some call a "surge" of US forces in what could be a
last-ditch attempt at quelling sectarian violence in Baghdad and
crushing al-Qaeda fighters in restive al-Anbar province.


But he made use of last week's suicide bombing in Iraq's
parliament, saying that the spectacular security breach in one of
the most heavily guarded areas of the war-torn country showed the
ferocity of US foes there.


"As we saw with last week's brutal attack on the Iraqi
parliament, our troops face depraved and determined enemies,
enemies that could just as easily come here to kill us," he said.


"And therefore we must give our men and women in uniform the best
equipment, the best training and the unqualified support of our
nation," said Bush.

