

Britain's main opposition tabled Monday a vote of no confidence
against Gordon Brown, the finance minister and expected successor
to Prime Minister Tony Blair, over a 1997 decision to overhaul
pensions taxation.


Although the governing Labour Party's majority in parliament
should serve to ensure that Brown's position is not threatened,
the attempt by the Conservatives may re-focus attention on his
handling of the pensions issue in the run-up to local and
regional elections early next month.


The no-confidence measure is highly unusual in Britain, where
individual ministers are rarely targeted by opposition parties in
such a way. It will be debated in parliament on Tuesday, and the
finance ministry confirmed that Brown would be responding to the
motion.


Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown, who is the heavy favourite to
succeed Prime Minister Tony Blair when he steps down later this
year, has been criticised by opposition politicians, who argue
that the decision to scrap a so-called dividend tax credit has
adversely affected pension funds.


British pension funds are big shareholders in companies and rely
on dividends for part of their revenues.


Brown has said, however, that ditching dividend tax credits was
"the right decision."


The Conservatives' finance spokesman George Osborne said that his
party would use Tuesday's opposition day debate in the House of
Commons to hold Brown to account for the decision.


"This is Gordon Brown's chance to explain why he sought to hide
the dangers of his reckless raid on pensioners' savings," Osborne
said.


"After the revelations about the raid, how can anyone have
confidence in his judgement? We shall see if the chancellor has
the political courage to apologise to the millions of pensioners
affected."


The row erupted after the release of confidential documents last
month, under Britain's Freedom of Information laws. They revealed
that officials had warned Brown the move would wipe out about 75
billion pounds (110 billion euros, 149 billion dollars) from
workers' pension funds.


The no-confidence motion comes ahead of local elections in some
councils across England, as well as the Scottish and Welsh
regional assemblies.


Economic Secretary Ed Balls, a former Brown adviser who remains a
close ally, defended the decision in a speech to the British
Chambers of Commerce annual conference in London on Monday.


"The government judged that this package of reforms was necessary
both to cut national debt and improve the climate for long-term
investment and enhance the competitiveness of the UK," he said.

