

The United Nations and the African Union launched two days of
frantic Darfur diplomacy here Monday as Khartoum approved the
second phase of a plan for joint peacekeeping in the strife-torn
Sudanese region.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon and AU Commission chair Alpha Oumar Konare
huddled to take stock after Sudan announced earlier Monday that
it would allow around 2,600 UN troops and police to deploy in
Darfur ahead of a larger UN presence to bolster 7,000 exhausted
AU troops.


Also attending the closed-door meeting were UN special envoy for
Darfur Jan Eliasson and his AU counterpart Selim Ahmad Selim, who
are tasked with reviving and broadening a wobbly peace deal
reached between Khartoum and Darfur rebels last May.


Only only one of the three negotiating rebel factions endorsed
last year's Darfur peace agreement, which has remained a dead
letter and failed to quell the violence which erupted in February
2003.


Monday's consultations were focusing on the third and final phase
of the plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi Annan for a
"hybrid" force of about 20,000 AU and UN troops.


The under-equipped AU force has failed to stem four years of
ethnic strife that have resulted in at least 200,000 deaths and
displaced more than two million people, according to UN figures.


Later Monday, Ban and Konare were to brief the 15-member Security
Council on their deliberations as the United States and Britain
put on hold plans to push for UN sanctions against Khartoum if it
continues to block a sizable UN presence in Darfur.


The talks come amid growing and coordinated world pressure on
Sudan to accept the joint AU-UN peacekeeping operation amid fears
of an even bigger humanitarian crisis in Darfur as the mandate of
the AU force on the ground expires on June 30.


The intensified pressure appears to bear fruit as Sudanese
Foreign minister Lam Akol announced Monday that "Sudan has
accepted the second phase of the agreement of UN support for the
African force."


Khartoum's green light came after Ban last week reassured Sudan
that helicopter gunships to be used by UN peacekeepers in Darfur
would be for deterrence, not for offensive purposes.


In a letter sent to Ban and the Security Council presidency
Monday, Sudan's UN envoy Abdalmahmood Abdalhaleem confirmed his
government's consent for "the helicopters component", which was
the only remaining sticking point in a tripartite -- AU, UN,
Sudan -- deal reached in Addis Ababa last Monday on the second
phase of the UN Darfur plan.


The UN chief described Khartoum's announcement as "a good sign".


But wrapping up a five-day visit to Sudan, US Deputy Secretary of
State John Negroponte warned Khartoum it faces isolation unless
it accepts the "hybrid" force in Darfur.


"We must move quickly to a larger, hybrid United Nations-African
Union peacekeeping force with a single, unified chain of command
that conforms to UN standards and practices," Negroponte told
reporters.


The US official was one of several foreign dignitaries that have
trekked to Khartoum to break the stalemate over Darfur.


Other visitors last week included South African President Thabo
Mbeki and Libya's number-two diplomat, Abdel Salem Triki who
shuttled between Chad and Sudan after the two countries became
embroiled in border clashes.


Friday, Libya also announced it would host an international
conference on Darfur on April 28, with representatives of the
United States, Britain, Sudan, Chad, Eritrea, the AU and the
European Union expected to attend.

