

Sirens wailed across Israel on Monday, bringing traffic and
pedestrians to a halt, as the Jewish state marked its annual
Holocaust Remembrance Day.


As the sirens sounded at 0700 GMT for two minutes, cars braked in
the streets and pedestrians stopped on the sidewalks to honour
the memory of the six million Jews who were killed by the Nazis
during World War II.


Motorists stood besides their cars on the highways. An elderly
couple in Jerusalem stood with heads bowed in the middle of the
crosswalk. A khaki-clad soldier, his automatic rifle slung over
his shoulder, stood at attention.


Radio played melancholy Israeli folk music throughout the day and
entertainment venues were closed.


The Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem hosted the annual
ceremony marking the genocide, following one after sunset on
Sunday when the Jewish state began to mark the annual day with
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert warning against those who had "not yet
learned the lesson of the Holocaust."


Yossef Lapid, president of the Yad Vashem board of directors and
a former justice minister, appealed for awareness on the killings
in Sudan's Darfur region.


"Even after the Holocaust we witnessed genocide in Biafra,
Cambodia, Rwanda, and we must cry out against the genocide
currently being committed in Darfur in Sudan," Lapid said.


"The world rests with its arms crossed, sending a few sacks of
flour there, not to feed the starving, but to ease its
conscience," he said.


Lapid also lashed out at Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad,
who has branded the systematic killing of Jews during World War
II a "myth" and called for the Jewish state to be wiped off the
map.


"For the Iranian president, the six million exterminated Jews
during the Holocaust weren't enough. He is convinced that in
Israel there are six million Jews too many," he said.


Yad Vashem said that thousands of Internet surfers from Iran have
visited its new Farsi-language website that the museum launched
in January.


"We believe that making credible, comprehensive information about
the Holocaust available to Persian speakers can contribute to the
fight against Holocaust denial," said Yad Vashem chairman Avner
Shalev.


In parliament, lawmakers recited the names of some of those
killed, with many reading out the names of their relatives.


Meanwhile several hundred people held a rally outside parliament,
in protests at reports last week that some 80,000 Holocaust
survivors in Israel live under the poverty line.


In Poland, some 8,000 people, from teenagers to elderly Holocaust
survivors, participated in the annual March of the Living at
Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp, walking from the gateway leading
out of Auschwitz to the ruins of the gas chambers of Birkenau.


Some 1.1 million people, most of them Jews, were killed in the
infamous death camp during World War II.


Representing the Israeli government during the march was Rafi
Eitan, a minister and former Mossad agent who in 1960 helped to
capture Nazi fugitive Adolf Eichmann, considered to be one of the
main architects of the campaign to exterminate the Jews.


A study published on Monday by an Israeli university said the
number of anti- Semitic acts rose sharply across the world in
2006, with some 590 cases recorded of violence and vandalism
aimed at Jews.

