

Top terror suspect Abu Zubaydah denied at a US military hearing
that he was an associate of Osama bin Laden and said he disagreed
with Al-Qaeda's philosophy of targeting civilians, a transcript
released Monday shows.


Abu Zubaydah acknowledged facilitating the training of jihadists
in Afghanistan to fight invaders of Muslim lands, but said his
group only came under bin Laden's control in 2000 under pressure
from the Taliban.


"Our doctrine has always been to go after enemy targets, and by
that I mean military targets, which include the military members
or civilians who work for or directly support the military,"
Zubaydah said in a statement read to a military tribunal.


"I disagreed with the Al-Qaeda philosophy of targeting innocent
civilians like those in the World Trade Center," he said.


Zubaydah, a Saudi-born Palestinian whose real name is Zayn Al
Abidin Muhammad Husayn, appeared before the tribunal on March 27
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


A military officer assigned to represent him read a statement by
him but Zubaydah also answered questions by the tribunal in
broken English.


The main evidence presented against him came from Ahmed Ressam,
an Algerian captured in December 1999 as he attempted to enter
the United States with a car loaded with explosives to bomb
Milennium 2000 celebrations.


Ressam said Zubayhdah was the emir of two camps in Afghanistan
where he was trained, and that he knew about Ressam's operation,
although not specifically the date or the exact target, the
government alleged.


The government also alleged that entries in Zybaydah's diary
described plans to burn cities and farms in the United States,
instigate race wars, attack gas stations and fuel trucks, and
start timed fires.


Ressam allegedly told US investigators that in 1998 Zubaydah
asked the Algerian to obtain five Canadian passports for a team
of five other individuals to enter the United States to bomb
several cities.


Zubaydah admitted to sending Ressam for training at the Khalden
and Deronta camps in Afghanistan, but disputed other charges and
instead portrayed his group as at odds ideologically with al-
Qaeda and competing with them for recruits.


He said was in charge of arranging the movement of recruits from
Pakistan to the camps in Afghanistan where Ressam was trained,
but the "emir" was Salah al Libi, who like Zubaydah is among 14
top terror suspects being held at Guantanamo.


"The statement that I was an associate of Osama bin Laden is
false. I only met him in the year 2000. I'm not his partner and
I'm not a member of Al-Qaeda," Zubaydah said.


"Bin Laden wanted Al-Qaeda to have control of Khalden, but we
refused since we had different ideas," he said.


Zubaydah said his group's aim was to provide Muslims with
training to go to places like Bosnia and Chechnya that had been
invaded by non Muslims.


"The mission of this training camp was for the purpose of
training Muslim brothers for defensive jihad," he said.
"Defensive jihad means that if an aggressor or invader invades
Muslim lands, no matter where, then it is every Muslim's duty to
defend the land against the invader."


"Our doctrine was not to train against those who did not invade
Muslim lands. Our doctrine was not the same as what Osama bin
Laden and Al-Qaeda were promoting, which was and is a doctrine of
offensive jihad," he said.


Zubaydah said he made a distinction between fundamentalist
Muslims and fanatical Muslims.


"I was always very selective about not working with the fanatical
Muslims that wanted training, such as the Algerians of the Armed
Jamaat Islamia," he said. "In fact, the Armed Jamaat Islamia
threatened my life because I refused to work with them."


In 2000 the Taliban closed the two training camps after Bin Laden
pressed to have all recruits come through his camps, he said.


Zubaydah said he visited bin Laden to ask for help in keeping the
camps open, but was rebuffed.


After the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States,
Zubaydah said some big jihadist groups were angry that they had
been given no warning. But they decided to close ranks with Al-
Qaeda in anticipation of a counter-attack, he said.

