

Unheralded American Boo Weekley dropped astonishing par chip-ins
on the last two holes of a wind-marred final round to win the US
PGA Verizon Heritage tournament Monday.


Weekley fired a final-round 68, three-under par, to capture his
first PGA crown, completing 72 holes at 14-under par 270 to
defeat South African Ernie Els by one stroke and become the
fourth first-time winner on the tour in 2007.


"This is unreal. It's unreal," Weekley said.


What truly tested reality were the closing holes for Weekley and
Els in a final round that was halted Sunday by severe winds.


Gusts by the closing seaside holes were only slightly better for
Monday's morning restart at the 5.4 million-dollar event.


Weekley, who took a bogey at the 16th, botched his first chip at
the raised green on the par-three 17th but lofted his second
effort perfectly and rolled home an unlikely par.


Els followed with a tee shot that landed behind a television
tower, forcing him to drop and pitch from tall wispy grass into a
greenside bunker. He went up and down but the bogey dropped him
two strokes off Weekley's pace.


At the 18th, Weekley chipped across the green and the ball
stopped in a side- hill patch of grass. Only a matter of inches
kept Weekley's ball from rolling down into rocks along the beach
shore and a horrid fate.


Weekley needed to manage at least a bogey to avoid falling level
with Australian Stephen Leaney, who finished third on 272 after a
final-round 68.


Instead, Weekley sank another improbable long chip for par and
kept his two- stroke margin over Els, who was walking to the 18th
tee. It proved to be the decisive stroke.


Els was just off the fairway and needed to hole his 150-yard
approach shot on a wind-whipped green to force a playoff.


On a green that 75 percent of players missed thanks to the wind,
the toughest hole on the course nearly surrendered the magical
shot. But Els's ball rolled to a halt two feet from the cup and
Weekley had his victory.


Leaney eagled the par-5 second and followed with four birdies in
a row to seize the lead from Jerry Kelly, but he sandwiched
bogeys at 13 and 15 around a birdie and then made a double bogey
at 16 to hand Weekley the lead for good.


It was the first Monday finish at the event since 2001 when
Argentina's Jose Coceres beat American Billy Mayfair in a
playoff, giving the South American his first US PGA triumph.


Kelly began the round with a one-stroke lead but fired a 77 to
fall back. He has not won a US PGA event since 2002. He, Els and
playing partner Kevin Na had just hit their second shots of the
final round Sunday when play was halted.

