

The United States has pressed Iran for information about the
mysterious disappearance more than a month ago of a former FBI
agent during a visit to the Islamic Republic, officials said
Monday.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack indicated some
frustration with the Iranians' failure to provide information on
the whereabouts of Robert Levinson, a retired FBI agent who
disappeared after traveling to the Gulf resort of Kish island in
Iran early March.


"Over the weekend we did send another message via the Swiss to
the Iranian government asking for an answer as to what they know
of his whereabouts," McCormack said.


"From all the information we have been able to gather, we believe
that he is in Iran so we have gone back to the government after
what we thought was a sufficient interval for them to conduct an
investigation and ask them to give us an answer," he said.


The United States has not maintained direct diplomatic relations
with Iran since 1980. Switzerland acts as an intermediary.


Asked if Washington was concerned Levinson may be in Iranian
custody, McCormack said the US had no "solid or credible
information about his whereabouts."


"To the best of our knowledge we have been able to determine that
he went (to Iran) ... and we have not seen any evidence that he
left," he said.


He also played down concerns Levinson could be dead, saying,
"We're looking forward to his being reunited with his family."


McCormack expressed the hope that major tensions between Iran and
the United States, including over Tehran's alleged support for
anti-US forces in Iraq and its suspected nuclear weapons program,
would not hinder cooperation in the effort to find Levinson.


"Regardless of whatever political differences may exist between
the United States and the Iranian government, we wouldn't think
that those differences would in any way impinge upon a good-faith
search for an American citizen who may be on the territory of
Iran," he said.


The United States has already asked Iran twice for information on
Levinson, who retired from the FBI in the late 1990s and has
reportedly been working since as a consultant.


On April 4, Tehran asked Washington for further details of the
case, but it had not been in touch since.


US officials have declined to comment on Levinson's reasons for
traveling to Kish, a small island off Iran's southern coast that
has grown into a major resort and consumer duty-free trade zone.


Some reports said he was helping research an independent
documentary film.


But deepening the mystery, McCormack revealed Monday that
Levinson had met with US consular officials in Dubai before
traveling to Kish. The US embassy in Dubai is a key post for
monitoring developments in Iran.


McCormack declined to elaborate on why Levinson went to the
consulate or what he discussed with officials there.


Levinson's disappearance came to light during a crisis sparked by
Iran's seizure of 15 British navy personnel in the Gulf. US
officials have denied any connection between the two incidents
and the Britons have since been released.

