

The United Nations on Monday hailed Khartoum's decision to allow
3,000 UN personnel to bolster African Union troops in Darfur but
urged quick action toward a larger deployment of joint AU-UN
peacekeepers.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon described Khartoum's announcement as "a very
positive sign" after he and AU Commission chair Alpha Oumar
Konare briefed the 15-member Council on the latest Darfur
developments.


Khartoum earlier Monday gave its consent for the dispatch of
3,000 UN personnel -- mostly military and police staff -- to
provide logistical, communications and air support to 7,000
under-equipped AU troops that have failed to stem four years of
bloody ethnic strife in Darfur.


"I and the AU intend to move quickly to prepare for the
deployment of the  heavy support package", Ban said, referring to
the second phase of the UN plan to send a 20,000-strong joint AU-
UN force to take over peacekeeping in Darfur.


The UN chief thanked Saudi Arabia, the Arab League, the United
States, China, South Africa and other African countries that have
put coordinated pressure on Khartoum to cooperate.


Sudan has so far refused to accept a large-scale UN troop
presence in Darfur.


Konare also stressed the need to revive and broaden a wobbly
peace deal reached between Khartoum and Darfur rebels last May.


Only one of the three negotiating rebel factions endorsed last
year's Darfur peace agreement, which has remained a dead letter.


He said Khartoum was prepared to accept the number of
peacekeepers that will be determined by the AU and the UN.


"If we cannot find troops in Africa (for the joint force), in
agreement with the Sudanese government, the troops will come from
outside the continent," Konare said, adding that Khartoum had
accepted a list of weapons that will equip the UN contingent.


But he also warned that "without sustainable (UN) funding, this
operation will fail."


In a statement, the Security Council welcomed Khartoum's consent
and urged it to facilitate "the immediate deployment of the
package," referring to the second phase of the UN plan.


It also welcomed efforts by the UN and the AU to agree on a
"hybrid force in Darfur and called on Khartoum "to facilitate its
deployment ... without delay."


"There can be no military solution" in Darfur, the council said
and called for "an immediate ceasefire, a reinvigorated political
process, an improvement in the humanitarian situation and the
deployment of an effective AU-UN hybrid operation."


US acting ambassador to the UN Alejandro Wolff stressed the need
for more action.


"We all need to be vigilant. All of this is in preparation for a
hybrid (AU-UN) force," he told reporters and noted that the
timetable for UN action "is very tight" as the mandate of the AU
force in Darfur expires June 30.


Khartoum's green light came after Ban last week reassured Sudan
that helicopter gunships to be used by the UN contingent in
Darfur would be for deterrence, not for offensive purposes.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, whose country chairs
the Security Council this month, attributed Sudan's cooperation
to "a mixture of diplomatic encouragement but also (the threat of
sanctions).


"The important thing is that those who have not cooperated with
implementing agreements that have already been reached understand
that it is not pain-free course," Beckett warned. "Everyone wants
to encourage implementation, everyone wants to encourage restored
peace and security in Darfur."


At least 200,000 people have been died as a result of four years
of ethnic strife in Darfur and more than two million driven from
their homes, according to the United Nations. Khartoum disputes
those figures, but some sources say the death toll is much
higher.


The UN talks come amid growing and coordinated world pressure on
Sudan to accept joint AU-UN peacekeeping amid fears of an even
bigger humanitarian crisis in Darfur as the mandate of the AU
force on the ground expires on June 30.


Wrapping up a five-day visit to Sudan, US Deputy Secretary of
State John Negroponte warned Khartoum it faces isolation unless
it accepts the "hybrid" force in Darfur.


His visit comes after the United States held off on a decision to
impose unilateral sanctions against Sudan to give UN chief Ban
Ki-moon a last chance to convince Khartoum to allow UN
peacekeepers into Darfur.

