

Australia captain Ricky Ponting scored an unbeaten 66 as the
champions stretched their unbeaten run at the World Cup to 26
games and 20 consecutive wins with a seven-wicket Super Eights
victory against an under-strength Sri Lanka here Monday.


Australia had a minor wobble when occasional off-spinner Russel
Arnold took two wickets in five balls to leave them 79 for two.


But Ponting and Andrew Symonds (63 not out) saw Australia,
chasing 227 to win, to 232 for three with an unbroken stand of
106 in a win achieved with 44 balls to spare when the captain hit
leg-spinner Malinga Bandara for six.


However, Sri Lanka's attack was missing fast bowler Lasith
Malinga (ankle ligaments) and the rested duo of left-arm quick
Chaminda Vaas and off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan.


Between them the Sri Lankan trio had taken 41 wickets at this
tournament, Vaas and Murali bagging three apiece in the six-
wicket win against New Zealand last time out which Malinga also
missed through injury.


Both sides had already qualified for the semi-finals and Sri
Lanka's decision to omit 1996 World Cup winners Vaas and Murali
denied Australia's batsmen fresh experience against the pair
ahead of a possible final clash - the teams are set to avoid one
another in the last four.


Ponting's fifty came off 67 balls with three boundaries while
Symonds, in typical hard-hitting form, reached the landmark in 56
balls with two sixes and three fours.


Before this match Ponting said he'd expected a "hard, honest
contest" but the selection policy of Sri Lanka, coached by former
Australia international Tom Moody, gave his side a huge advantage
before a ball had been bowled.


However, it needed a key double strike from left-arm wrist
spinner Brad Hogg to spark a collapse as Sri Lanka were bowled
out for 226.


Sri Lanka, after slumping to 27 for three, saw captain Mahela
Jayawardene (72) and Chamara Silva (64) put on 120 for the fourth
wicket before both batsmen fell in quick succession to Hogg, who
took two wickets for 35 runs from his 10 overs.


Left-arm quick Nathan Bracken did a superb job at both ends of
the innings in a miserly return of four for 19 from 9.4 overs.


Sri Lanka, from 167 for three, lost their last seven wickets for
59 runs.


Their attack then needed every chance to go to hand.


But Arnold, fielding close in at short cover, put down a tough
head-high catch when Adam Gilchrist was on 10, off Dilhara
Fernando.


Matthew Hayden, characteristically aggressive, drove Farveez
Maharoof for six. But a partnership worth 76 in under 12 overs
was broken when Hayden, on 41, dragged Arnold's fifth ball to
Tillakaratne Dilshan at mid-wicket.


And 76 for one became 79 for two when left-hander Gilchrist
missed Arnold's quicker ball and was lbw for 30.


Even when Michael Clarke (23) fell to Bandara, Australia were in
charge at 126 for three in the 24th over.


Sri Lanka had to face Australia's first-choice attack and, after
Jayawardene won the toss, they lost three wickets lost for one
run in 14 balls.


Veteran opener Sanath Jayasuriya was lbw for 12 to Bracken.


Then Glenn McGrath needed just three balls to strike when Kumar
Sangakkara fell lbw for nought.


Jayawardene countered, hooking fast bowler Shaun Tait for a six
that brought up his fifty in 64 balls, and a century stand with
Silva, whose half-century came in 91 deliveries.


But Hogg ended the partnership when Silva top-edged a sweep to
Clarke at short fine-leg.


Then 167 for four became 174 for five when Jayawardene was
stumped off Hogg by wicket-keeper Gilchrist as he played for
turn.


Sri Lanka's last Super Eights match is against surprise package
Ireland here Wednesday while Australia's second round programme
ends at the National Stadium on Friday against fellow semi-
finalists New Zealand.

