

Jury selection started Monday in the trial of US national Jose
Padilla, who is charged with conspiracy to commit terror but not
with the alleged radioactive bomb plot he was arrested for five
years ago.


Before questioning the first group of potential jurors, Judge
Marcia Cooke told lawyers she would make it clear Padilla and two
co-defendants were not accused of any direct involvement in the
September 11, 2001 terror attacks that killed about 3,000 people
in the United States.


But she stressed that "to think 9/11 won't be mentioned, I think
is naive."


Prosecutors said they did not intend to link defendants with the
attacks, but said there would be testimony connecting them with
the Al-Qaeda terror network that is blamed for the attacks.


Padilla, 36, who spent three and a half years in military
detention without charges, is accused of plotting to murder,
kidnap and maim people in Afghanistan and elsewhere outside the
United States.


Padilla and co-defendants Adham Amin Hassoun and Kifah Wael
Jayyousi, are also charged with aiding a US-based Al-Qaeda terror
cell that supplied recruits and funding to Islamic extremists
abroad.


But the federal charges make no mention of the claim he planned
to detonate a "dirty bomb" in the United States. The allegation
was made by then-attorney general John Ashcroft after Padilla was
arrested in 2002, and was cited as a reason for keeping him in a
navy brig as an "enemy combatant."


The initial claims against Padilla could make it all the more
difficult to find an impartial jury.


More than 100 potential jurors were excused last month after
stating that memories of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks on
the United States and their views of terrorism would make it
difficult for them to be unbiased.


"It would be difficult for me to keep an open mind when the
subject is terrorism," one of the potential panelists said on
Monday. Another linked Padilla with the alleged "dirty bomb"
plot.


Cooke said it would likely take two weeks to pick a panel of 12
jurors and six alternates, and that the trial would likely last
until September.


At the hearing Padilla was clad in a gray suit rather than the
khaki prison garb he wore during pre-trial sessions.


Padilla's lawyers had tried to get the case dismissed over
allegations their client was tortured at a military prison from
2002 to 2005, but Cooke rejected the motion earlier this month,
saying there was no indication he had been mistreated by civilian
authorities.


A former Chicago gang member of Puerto Rican descent who
converted to Islam, Padilla was detained in May 2002 at Chicago's
O'Hare airport after returning from Pakistan, and was taken to a
naval base in South Carolina.


Padilla's lawyers alleged their client was so traumatized by his
treatment in military prison that he could not assist in his own
defense, but Cooke ruled he was fit to stand trial.


The subject of a fierce tug-of-war between the administration of
President George W. Bush and civil liberties groups, Padilla was
transferred to the civilian court system in 2005 after his
lawyers prepared to challenge his military detention before the
Supreme Court.


The government has not explained why his indictment makes no
mention of the alleged dirty bomb plot that had been cited as the
ground for Padilla's military detention as an "enemy combatant."


The indictment alleges he traveled abroad to train as a "jihad"
fighter and filled out an application to receive "violent jihad
training" while in Afghanistan in July 2000.


Padilla, also known as Abdullah al-Mujahir, has pleaded not
guilty to the charges. If convicted he could face life in prison.


Padilla, of Puerto Rican descent, was born in Brooklyn, New York,
and grew up in Chicago. He later moved to South Florida.

