

Former England striker Alan Smith has admitted he made the right
decision in deciding to stay and fight for his place at
Manchester United.


Smith suffered a horror injury against Liverpool last season and
was out of the side for more than a year.


In January, boss Sir Alex Ferguson gave Smith the option of going
out on loan to a Championship side to try to regain his match-
fitness and form, but Smith refused and instead stayed at United
and worked on forcing his way back into the team.


After several months of hard graft, he was finally given his
chance and played a starring role in United's awesome 7-1
Champions League demolition of Roma at Old Trafford last week.


"Manchester United are the biggest football club in the world,"
said Smith. "It is a huge challenge and in difficult times, it
would have been easy to run away from it. But I am not going to
do that.


"Sometimes, you have to make brave decisions. A lot of people
questioned me when I said I wanted to stay but now, I hope the
manager is pleased with the decision I made."


Smith's United career has been eventful to say the least. The
Rothwell-born player received death threats when he quit his
beloved Leeds to join the Elland Road outfit's hated rivals in
2004.


Smith then scored five goals in his first six games before ending
the season as an unused substitute in the FA Cup Final defeat to
Arsenal.


The following summer, Ferguson performed a U-turn on his initial
vow to use the 26-year-old purely in a striking role by asking
him to anchor United's midfield as he tried to find a replacement
for the soon-to-be-departing Roy Keane.


As always, Smith embraced the challenge with gusto. But he did
not quite look the part and the possibility exists if he had not
been injured at Liverpool, he might well have been sacrificed
last off season.


Instead, he has turned his career on its head and seems certain
to be heavily involved as the race for silverware intensifies.


"I know I can do it in the Premiership, that has never been in
question," he said. "This time last year I only had one leg but I
have always been confident that I can have a positive effect on
the team when I am fully fit.


"The gaffer showed a lot of belief in me when he picked me
against Roma. It was everything I have worked for."


Smith is set to start again against Sheffield United on Tuesday,
a match that on paper should pose the least threat to United's
ambitions as Sheffield have lost their last seven away games.


However, a defensive injury crisis is biting deep at Old
Trafford. Gary Neville, Nemanja Vidic and Mikael Silvestre are
definitely out and John O'Shea and Rio Ferdinand remain doubtful
with minor strains, so Ferguson could be left to choose between
Darren Fletcher and 18-year-old Craig Cathcart for the right-back
slot.


Cathcart has been pulled out of Youth Cup Final duties at
Liverpool, with speculation rising in his native Belfast that he
could be set for an unexpected senior debut against the Blades.


Despite Ferguson's problems at the back, his side will still
start favourites, with Smith admitting most neutrals are hoping
United emerge triumphant in the title battle.


"When United were dominating, everyone wanted someone else to
win," he said. "Now Chelsea have won it for a couple of years,
the situation has changed.


"As players, we cannot worry about that. We have to stay focussed
on each individual game - and we have a manager and coaches who
will make sure we will."

