

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates arrived in Jordan on Monday at
the start of a Middle East tour which American officials said is
aimed at countering Iran's growing influence in the region.


Washington wants its allies Egypt and Jordan to offer more
support for the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki
at international meetings, a senior Defence Department official
said, speaking on condition of anonimity.


It is also seeking greater opposition to Iran's controversial
nuclear programme and to Iranian support for the Hezbollah
militia in Lebanon, the official added.


In Amman, Gates will meet King Abdullah II and senior officials
for talks on regional developments but "Iran in particular", the
official said. "He's going to want to look and see what King
Abdullah has to say about Iran."


Arms sales to the region will also be high on the agenda.


In Egypt, where Gates is due on Tuesday, he will urge President
Hosni Mubarak's government to consider the purchase of modern
weaponry and focus on "counterterrorism and the non-state actors
that we are all working together against in the region," the
official said.


He will later seek to reassure Israel over the planned US sales
of advanced weaponry to Saudi Arabia, while pointing out that the
exact package is still under consideration, the official said.


Gates himself said he would hold talks with King Abdullah on "how
we can contribute to his (peace) efforts and how the Jordanians
can contribute to ours, not just in Iraq but in Lebanon (and) the
Palestinian peace process."


"Jordan has always been an ally of the United States," Gates told
reporters on the plane to Amman. "The Jordanians have for a long
time been a very constructive influence and I look forward to
continuing that."


Throughout the tour the defence secretary will seek support for
the Gulf Security Dialogue, an umbrella framework for talks
between the United States and the oil-rich Gulf Arab states.


The talks are focused on "common concerns about Persian hegemony
in the region... (and) involvement of Shiite political movements
in some countries, and how to mitigate that, and how to respond
to that collectively," said the senior military official.


"The best way to confront Iran is to confront Iranian behaviour
in Iraq," the official added. The trip will focus on "how we can
work with strategic allies in the region" to achieve that goal.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said on Tuesday his country
would not give in to Western demands over its nuclear drive,
vowing that Tehran would "resist to the end".


The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Iran over its
refusal to suspend uranium enrichment, and the Islamic republic
faces further punitive measures if it does not comply.


The United States has refused to rule out the option of military
force to bring Iran to heel should sanctions fail to work.


Tehran last week said that its uranium enrichment work was now at
an "industrial scale," although international observers have cast
doubt over what stage its nuclear programme has reached.


"The Iranian people will stand firm on the nuclear issue to
acquire all their rights, will continue solidly to reach the
summits of perfection and will raise their fists to insist on
their rights," Ahmadinejad said.


In a typically pugnacious speech in the southern city of Shiraz
broadcast live on Iranian state television, Ahmadinejad also
warned world powers not to misuse the UN Security Council.


"Give up your bullying methods! Otherwise rest assured that you
will lose and you will impose great losses on your nations. What
did you gain in Iraq, what did you gain in Palestine and
Lebanon?" he asked.

