

The United States on Monday denied that it was holding up
progress on the North Korean nuclear stand-off by hindering the
release of North Korean funds from a Macau bank.


"It's clear that this is an issue with the North Koreans and
their banker," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said of
the 25 million dollars of funds blocked in the Macau-based Banco
Delta Asia (BDA).


"The ball is in the North Koreans' court and we'll see what they
do," he said.


Earlier Monday Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander
Losyukov, Moscow's top negotiator on North Korea, accused the US
Treasury Department of "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems."


"We cannot move forward as long as the North Korean side says
that it has not received the money," Losyukov was quoted as
saying by Russian news agencies.


McCormack rejected the Russian's allegation.


"It's just not an accurate description of the situation," he told
reporters.


But the spokesman skirted questions about what US restrictions
remain on BDA, which has denied any wrongdoing and protested the
US Treasury moves against it.


"There may be restrictions on what BDA can do, but there's no
restrictions on the account holders being able to go in and
withdraw funds from those accounts," he said.


McCormack also said the Treasury Department was not planning to
back away from its initial ruling that BDA was complicit in
illicit North Korean financial dealings even though it has
approved the release of the frozen funds, some of which the US
earlier alleged were ill-gotten gains.


"I'm not aware of any changes in the intent of the Department of
Treasury, at this point, regarding the rule," he said.


A disarmament deal reached in February at six-party talks on
North Korea's atomic program set April 14 as the deadline for
Pyongyang to shut down and seal its Yongbyon nuclear reactor,
which produces the raw material to make plutonium for nuclear
weapons.


But the deadline passed unheeded due to delays in freeing up the
North Korean funds at BDA that were frozen after Washington
blacklisted the bank for allegedly laundering money and
counterfeit US currency for the communist regime in Pyongyang.


Washington says the bank funds were freed for collection last
week and there is no reason for further delay.


US officials over the weekend insisted that North Korea move
ahead with its part of the February 13 bargain by inviting UN
nuclear inspectors into the country to verify that it has begun
shutting the Yongbyon plant.


While McCormack said Washington and its partners in the
negotiations with North Korea were willing to give Pyongyang some
days to act, as requested by China, they expected movement soon.


"The patience of all the members of the six-party talks is
finite, but certainly we are ready to see how this will play out
in coming days," he said.


The six parties are China, Japan, the two Koreas, Russia and the
United States.

