

The father of an Al-Qaeda terror suspect being held in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba charged that his son was tortured by US interrogators
in Pakistan after his capture, his lawyers said Monday.


A US military tribunal at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba heard evidence
over the weekend in the case of Majid Khan, a Pakistani resident
of Baltimore, Maryland, as part of a review of his status as an
enemy combatant, a Pentagon spokesman said.


Khan is one of 14 terror suspects transferred to Guantanamo from
secret CIA detention facilities last year.


The US government alleges he was tasked by the mastermind of the
September 11, 2001 attacks, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, to research
other attacks in the United States.


The Pentagon has not yet produced a transcript of the tribunal
proceedings and provided no details of the evidence presented.


But the Center for Constitutional Rights, a legal aide group that
is representing Khan, said the detainee's father submitted a
statement to the tribunal charging that his son was tortured by
US interrogators.


"Mr Ali Khan's written statement includes descriptions of the
torture and abuse inflicted upon Majid Khan by US personnel in
the early days of his detention in Pakistan, including beatings,
stress positions, and sleep deprivation, as well as an account of
the abuse of children as young as six-years-old at the same
facility," the CCR said in a statement.


It said Khan's brother Mohammed was detained along with him in
Karachi in March 2003, and provided his father with an account of
the torture that he allegedly witnessed.


"The Americans tortured him for eight hours at a time, tying him
tightly in stressful positions in a small chair until his hands,
feet and mind went numb," the CCR quoted the father's statement
as saying.


"They also beat him repeatedly, slapping him in the face, and
deprived him of sleep," it said.


It said when not being interrogated, Khan was kept in a darkened
cell that was too small to lie down in or sit in with his legs
stretched out.


"This torture only stopped when Majid agreed to sign a statement
that he was not even allowed to read," it said.


In announcing the transfer of the detainees to Guantanamo in
September, President George W. Bush acknowledged that they had
been subjected to "tough" interrogation tactics by the CIA but
insisted they were "safe and lawful and necessary."

