

Oil prices were generally lower Monday and London crude prices
saw heavy profit- taking after last week's gains linked to
concerns over tight supplies of motor fuel reserves in the United
States.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, lost two cents to end at 63.61 dollars per
barrel.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery tumbled 1.38
dollars to settle at 67.25 dollars per barrel in London. That
marked a big pullback after prices flirted with 70 dollars last
week.


Mike Fitzpatrick at Fimat USA said New York trading might have
been affected by "an unusual late-season blast of frigid weather
in the northeast," which supported prices somewhat.


But he said the overall trend appeared to be a consolidation of
gains.


"It will probably require a flow of fresh supportive news to keep
prices moving higher from these levels, otherwise profit-taking
corrections should be expected," he noted.


"Still, there is no paucity of hot spots that could generate
those headlines."


Stockpiles of gasoline or petrol were in focus ahead of the peak-
demand driving season, starting at the end of May, when many
Americans take to their cars for summer vacations.


Inventories of US gasoline plunged by 5.5 million barrels to
199.7 million barrels in the week to April 6, recent official
data showed.


That was the heaviest weekly drop since August 2003, according to
analysts, and compared with market expectations for a drop of
just 1.4 million barrels.


Noting the drop in oil inventories, the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) on Monday said it was
maintaining its forecast for growth of world oil demand in 2007
at 1.5 percent.


American refineries are presently unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States, according to industry experts.


This has led to a persistent gap between North American and
European oil prices.


Aside from gasoline worries, traders looked to geopolitical
developments in Nigeria, which is Africa's largest producer of
crude.


At least 21 people died over the weekend during state polls in
Nigeria as tensions mounted in the volatile and sprawling west
African nation ahead of presidential and general elections next
Saturday.


Nigeria has seen its oil production slashed since last year owing
to disruption caused by numerous kidnappings of foreign workers.


"The Nigerian presidential election will take place this coming
weekend and had been pinpointed for many months now as one of the
main geopolitical risks of 2007," added Petromatrix analyst
Olivier Jakob.

