

Michael Vaughan said he was relishing a fierce make-or-break
World Cup contest against South Africa here on Tuesday.


With his South African-born Kevin Pietersen having been engaged
in a bitter feud with Proteas skipper Graeme Smith after the
batsman's switch of allegiance, Vaughan tried to play down the
potential volatile encounter.


But he admitted that on-field exchanges between players is part
and parcel of the World Cup.


"I don't really mind it. Cricket's a tough sport and when you
have 11 guys out there, it can get a little fiery. But it is
nothing that gets too personal, just a bit of banter," said


"I have no issue with Smith. He is an excellent captain, the
leader of his team. I have a lot of respect for him."


Vaughan, whose team need to win to keep their semi-final hopes
alive, vowed England will shake themselves out of the mediocre
form which has dogged them throughout the tournament.


"It is the biggest match of the World Cup," said Vaughan.


"It's a great opportunity to raise our level. It's a game that
could take us to the semi-finals for the first time since 1992."


Vaughan believes England can repeat the sort of form which took
them to a shock tri-series win Australia earlier this year.


"We are a side that can turn up and produce on the day. We did it
in the tri- series when we were down and out and it is because we
have players who enjoy big games, pressure situations, big
crowds," said the captain.


"We are realistic of what we can achieve. If you had told me
before the World Cup that we would have one game to get to the
semi-final, I would have taken it."


England, who failed to qualify for the second round in the last
three World Cups, beat Kenya and Canada but lost to New Zealand
in the preliminary stages.


In the Super Eights they lost to Australia and Sri Lanka, beat
Ireland and then struggled to see off Bangladesh by four wickets.


Meanwhile, Vaughan backed coach Duncan Fletcher who has been
criticised for England's unimpressive performances in the
Caribbean.


"It will be nice to win it for the coach, the players, and the
supporters. Duncan's had a bit of criticism, but he is a
fantastic coach. I think it is fair we have been criticised
because we haven't had a great winter."


Vaughan said South Africa were also inconsistent.


"They have been similar to us in many ways. They have played well
at times and not so well other times," said Vaughan of Smith's
side who beat Sri Lanka and the West Indies but were upset by
Bangladesh in the Super Eights.


South Africa also lost to New Zealand and have six points in six
matches.


If they win against England they will become the fourth side to
qualify for the semi-finals behind Australia, New Zealand and Sri
Lanka.


Vaughan believes the toss on a bouncy Kensington Oval pitch will
be "tricky."


"The toss will be a tricky one. It is still on my mind what I
should do. We will sit down and study the situation to see which
is the best way to attack the pitch.


"I would like to win it, obviously, especially in one-day
cricket, if you can win the toss and the team is happy doing what
they have talked about, you always think you are one up," said
Vaughan.

