

Australia's Andrew Symonds admitted he was stunned to see Sri
Lanka rest frontline bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah
Muralitharan from their World Cup Super Eights clash on Monday.


Symonds smashed an unbeaten 63 as the world champions wrapped up
a comfortable seven-wicket win at the Grenada National Stadium.


Both sides had already made sure of their places in the semi-
finals but Monday's result made it almost certain that Sri Lanka
will avoid the defending champions in the last four and will
probably face New Zealand in Jamaica.


Australia, as probable Super Eights winners, look destined to
play their semi- final in St Lucia against either South Africa or
England although West Indies still have an outside chance of
getting through.


"It's not the way we would have done it but they're a different
team," said Symonds on the decision to rest Vaas and
Muralitharan.


"They are key players. It can affect confidence when you do
that."


Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene defended the decision to
rest the duo which immediately weakened an attack already without
injured seamer Lasith Malinga.


"We have to do what's best for the team and that's why we took
the decision," said Jayawardene.


"We use our personnel on and off and we have to make sure we have
the guys ready for the semi-finals."


He subsequently told a news conference that Murali had been
nursing a groin problem and Vaas needed a break as the side
couldn't afford another injury to one of their bowlers with
Malinga already sidelined.


Australia captain Ricky Ponting, who top-scored with 66 and
shared an unbroken century stand with Symonds for the third
wicket, said it was important that the same players stayed on
course for the final.


"Right at this moment it's all about momentum. We've played some
good cricket and we're looking to carry that momentum into the
semi-finals," said Ponting.


Monday's win was Australia's 20th successive World Cup win, and
made it almost certain that they would top the Super Eights table
with a perfect record.


"It's coming together nicely. We've played some really good
cricket right through the tournament," added the Australia
skipper.


"Our batting was again very good and another good start gave a
platform for the rest of the guys to chip away."


He also praised spinner Brad Hogg who now has 15 wickets in the
tournament.


"He used his variations well," said Ponting. "He's a vital
wicket-taker."


Australia face New Zealand in their last Super Eights game here
on Friday. dj-jdg07

