

Virginia Tech, an unassuming university on the edge of the
Appalachian hills, saw its calm shattered Monday when a gunman
unloaded a barrage of bullets into a campus dormitory and
classrooms, killing 32 people.


The unlikely scene of the bloodiest school shooting in US history
is located in bucolic Blacksburg, an outpost of rolling hills and
mid-sized farms in the Blue Ridge mountains, part of the
Appalachian range.


Formally known as the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University, Virginia Tech was founded in 1872 as a land-grant
school -- a college or university designated at its founding by
state or federal lawmakers to teach agriculture, military
tactics, or the mechanical arts so that members of the working
class could obtain a liberal, practical education.


The school, the largest university in Virginia, currently has
some 25,000 full- time students on a campus encompassing more
than 100 buildings and some 2,600 acres.


The university dominates the life in the southwestern Virginia
town of Blacksburg with its population of just 40,000, and the
school's 900-million dollar budget drives the local economy.


Many of Virginia Tech's students are pursuing undergraduate or
graduate degrees in technical and applied studies such as
computer science, agriculture, engineering, or business.


Virginia Tech also has a full-time military training program with
a corps of cadets, one of the few in the country.


Within the state, Virginia Tech is seen as an engine of research
and development in biotechnology, energy, information and
communication technology and a leader in fuel-cell technology.
The school's well-regarded engineering programs regularly make
the ranks of the nation's best.


Until Monday's shooting, the town was best-known for the
university and its Blacksburg Electronic Village -- one of the
oldest Internet-based community networks in the United States.


The Internet partnership with the university allowed the town to
boast one of the largest proportions of online citizens anywhere
in the nation -- more than 87 percent.

