

Unheralded American Boo Weekley dropped astonishing par chip-ins
on the last two holes of a wind-marred final round to win the US
PGA Verizon Heritage tournament Monday.


Weekley fired a final-round 68, three-under par, to capture his
first PGA crown, completing 72 holes at 14-under par 270 to
defeat South African Ernie Els by one stroke and become the
fourth first-time winner on the tour in 2007.


"This is unreal," Weekley said. "It's unreal, back-to-back chip-
ins. I don't know how often that's happened out here on the tour
for a win, but it was pretty dramatic for me."


What truly tested reality were the closing holes for Weekley and
Els in a final round that was halted Sunday by severe winds.


Gusts by the closing seaside holes were only slightly better for
Monday's morning restart at the 5.4 million-dollar event.


Weekley, who took a bogey at the 16th, botched his first chip at
the raised green on the par-three 17th but lofted his second
effort perfectly and rolled home an unlikely par.


"I was just trying to land it just barely on the fringe and let
the wind push it to the hole," Weekley said. "I just flubbed it a
little bit."


Els followed with a tee shot that landed behind a television
tower, forcing him to drop and pitch from tall wispy grass into a
greenside bunker. He went up and down but the bogey dropped him
two strokes off Weekley's pace.


At the 18th, Weekley chipped across the green and the ball
stopped in a side- hill patch of grass. Only a matter of inches
kept Weekley's ball from rolling down into rocks along the beach
shore and a horrid fate.


Weekley needed to manage at least a bogey to avoid falling level
with Australian Stephen Leaney, who finished third on 272 after a
final-round 68.


Instead, Weekley sank another improbable chip for par, this one
from 35 feet, and kept his two-stroke margin over Els, who was
walking to the 18th tee. It proved to be the decisive stroke.


"I was just like, 'All right, I ain't even going to worry about
it, just get up there and chip it on, two-putt it and make my
bogey and give myself another opportunity,'" Weekley said.


Els was just off the fairway and needed to hole his 150-yard
approach shot on a wind-whipped green to force a playoff.


On a green that 75 percent of players missed thanks to the wind,
the toughest hole on the course nearly surrendered the magical
shot. But Els's ball rolled to a halt two feet from the cup and
Weekley had his victory.


"I don't think I want to see this replay," Els said.


Els, whose Heritage near-misses include two third-place finishes,
has not won a US PGA event in nearly three years. But the two-
time US Open winner and former British Open champion was
philosophical about the runner-up effort.


"I guess he has paid his dues," Els said. "He has won a pretty
good tournament."


Weekley spent the past four years on the developmental tour after
a brief PGA stint, but has made the most of his second chance.


His victory clinched a PGA spot for the next two years and a spot
at next year's Masters, the first winner to do so under a revived
qualifying format announced by Augusta National Golf Club
officials earlier this month.


Weekley nearly won his first PGA crown at last month's Honda
Classic but a bogey on the 72nd hole because of a short missed
putt dropped him into a four-man playoff that he lost.


"It never stopped me from thinking I was going to win because I
knew in my heart I was going to win," he said. "That putt, still
to this day, that three-footer, they still give me a little bit
of a jitter."


Leaney eagled the par-5 second and followed with four birdies in
a row to seize the lead from Jerry Kelly, but he sandwiched
bogeys at 13 and 15 around a birdie and then made a double bogey
at 16 to hand Weekley the lead for good.


"I didn't even look at the leaderboard until I doubled 16 to
actually see where I was because I knew that I was probably close
to the lead," he said.


It was the first Monday finish at the event since 2001 when
Argentina's Jose Coceres beat American Billy Mayfair in a
playoff, giving the South American his first US PGA triumph.


Kelly began the round with a one-stroke lead but fired a 77 to
fall back. He has not won a US PGA event since 2002. He, Els and
playing partner Kevin Na had just hit their second shots of the
final round Sunday when play was halted.

