

The brother of a US football star killed by friendly fire in
Afghanistan three years ago accused the military Tuesday of lying
about the circumstances of his death to avoid a public relations
fiasco.


Kevin Tillman told a US congressional hearing that family members
initially believed the US military's accounts that his brother,
Pat Tillman, fought valiantly to the death during a firefight in
Afghanistan on April 22, 2004.


"Our family was told that he was shot in the head by the enemy in
a fierce firefight outside a narrow canyon," Kevin Tillman told
the House Government Reform Committee hearing on "Misleading
Information from the Battlefield."


But he said they felt shock and betrayal upon learning several
weeks later that the National Football League star was apparently
killed by over-zealous members of his own platoon.


"This was not some fog of war. They simply lost control," said
Kevin Tillman, as he described the shooting of his brother by
fellow troops.


"Pat's death was clearly the result of fratricide. It was due to
a series of careless actions by several individuals in our own
platoon after a small harassing ambush," said Kevin Tillman, who
joined the US Army Rangers with his brother after the September
11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington.


He accused military brass of a cover-up at a time when they
needed a public relations boost because of perceived military
setbacks in Iraq and Afghanistan.


"Revealing that Pat's death was a fratricide would have been yet
another political disaster during a month already swollen with
political disasters, and a brutal truth that the American public
would undoubtedly find unacceptable," Kevin Tillman told the
panel.


"So the facts needed to be suppressed. An alternative narrative
had to be constructed.


"A terrible tragedy that might have further undermined support
for the war in Iraq was transformed into an inspirational message
that served instead to support the nation's foreign policy wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan," he said.


Kevin Tillman said awarding his brother a Silver Star for valor
posthumously had further embellished the deception.


"Media accounts, based on information provided by the Army and
the White House were wreathed in a patriotic glow and became more
dramatic in tone," he said.


"It was utter fiction," he said, accusing the military of
"deliberate and careful misrepresentations."


In the hours immediately after his brother's death, "crucial
evidence was destroyed -- including Pat's uniform, equipment and
notebook," he said.


"The autopsy was not done according to regulation and the field
hospital report was falsified."


The panel also heard testimony from Private Jessica Lynch, who
became a symbol of valor after being rescued early in the Iraq
war. US officials have been accused of embellishing stories of
her heroism.


"The bottom line is the American people are capable of
determining their own ideals for heroes, and they don't need to
be told elaborate lies," Lynch told the panel.

