

Spanish stocks slumped nearly three percent on Tuesday, led by
losses in the property and banking sector and amid concern that a
long-awaited property crash was imminent, dealers said.


The Ibex 35 index of most traded shares, which hit successive
record highs earlier this month, closed down 2.73 percent at
14.987,10 points, easing from earlier lows.


The unease over the housing sector was triggered by a sharp fall
in shares in Spanish real estate company Astroc, which have lost
more than 60 percent in less than a week after an auditor's
report raised concerns over its finances.


The market was also spooked by comments about the Spanish
property market by the president of French construction firm
Eiffage, Jean-Francois Roverato.


Roverato justified rejecting an all share takeover offer from
Spanish construction group Sacyr on the grounds that the Spanish
firm's real estate assets in its home market "could very soon be
revised down."


The developments follow signs that property prices -- which have
soared over the past decade helping to fuel economic growth rates
and the profits of builders -- are finally levelling out as
household debt reaches record levels.


Housing prices rose 7.2 percent year-on-year during the first
quarter, their lowest increase since 1999, according to
government statistics.


Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez sought to
calm jittery markets, telling reporters the housing market was
just experiencing a gradual slowdown.


"We think the property market, construction in general, is going
to have a soft landing," he said after addressing parliament on
the state of the Spanish economy, which grew by about 4.0 percent
in the first quarter.


Sacyr shares shed 8.15 percent to close at 40.80 euros,
Inmocaral, Spain's second-largest property group, dropped 11.27
percent to close at 4.33 euros while Montebalito, another
property group, fell 12.20 percent to close at 21.95 euros.


"Property stocks fell after the recent comedown by Astroc and
other news which indicate the end of the property boom," a dealer
said.


Shares in Astroc closed down 9.48 percent at 15.95 euros.


The sharp losses by construction and property firms sank bank
stocks which are exposed to the sector through mortgage loans.


Bancos Pastor led banking sector losses, closing down 6.33
percent at 17.02 euros.


Sabadell lost over 5.0 percent to close at 33.25 euros while
BSCH, Banesto and Valencia shed over 3.0 percent to close at
13.36 euros, 18.10 euros and 42.50 euros respectively.

