

Poland will house missiles for a defence shield Washington wants
to site in central Europe only if doing so will enhance its
security, Polish Defence Minister Aleksander Szczyglo said
Tuesday.


"This US project should increase the level of security in Europe,
specifically in Poland," Szczyglo said, after holding talks on
the proposed missile shield with his US counterpart, Robert
Gates.


Gates had arrived in Warsaw Tuesday from Moscow for talks aimed
at getting Polish leaders to begin formal negotiations on the
missile shield, which Washington says would be vital to defending
Europe and the United States against attacks from the Middle
East, and Iran in particular.


Washington wants to site 10 interceptor missiles in Poland and a
targeting radar in the Czech Republic as part of the system,
which has already been deployed in the United States, Britain and
Greenland.


Formal talks have not yet begun, but the Polish government has
expressed interest in the project.


"The success of negotiations depends on one thing: negotiations
can be successful if the level of Poland's security is increased"
by housing the system, Szczyglo said.


But he added: "What has been presented to Poland is only a
proposal and it would be groundless to forecast what may or may
not happen."


Gates agreed with Szczyglo that "any arrangement on missile
defence with Poland should enhance Poland's security."


He sought to allay fears that Washington's plan to site missiles
in Poland would make the country a target of attacks from Russia,
which has been riled by the US plan and threatened to retaliate
against countries that host the system in its backyard.


"I don't think Russia is a military threat to Poland, either now
or if we had the missile system in place here," Gates told
reporters outside the defence ministry in Warsaw.


"I said in Russia we aren't talking about tomorrow or next year
but what the world will look like in 10 or 20 years. The world
changes in dramatic ways and what we are talking about here is
indivisible security for the United States and our NATO allies,"
he said.


Gates was due to meet Polish President Lech Kaczynski later
Tuesday.

