

Pakistan and Spain agreed on Tuesday to step up their cooperation
against terrorism and human trafficking during talks in Madrid
between the leaders of the two nations.


"Both parties agreed to promote cooperation in the field of
combating illegal immigration and human trafficking," said a
joint statement issued after the talks between Pakistani
President Pervez Musharraf and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis
Rodriguez Zapatero.


"The parties also agreed to start negotiations to sign an
agreement on cooperation in the fight against organized crime,
terrorism and illegal immigration, which would contemplate mutual
cooperation and technical assistance," it added.


Spain and Pakistan will hold yearly meetings between government
officials from both nations who work on illegal immigration, it
said.


Immigrant boats arriving from Africa to Spain increasingly carry
would-be migrants from Asia. A ship bound for Spain which was
intercepted off the coast of Mauritania in February had over 100
Pakistanis among its nearly 400 passengers.


Musharraf is scheduled to travel to the southern city of Cordoba
during his four-day stay in Spain where he will visit the famous
ancient mosque and take part in a conference on dialogue between
the West and the Muslim world.


The visit is part of a four-nation tour of Europe includes stops
in Poland, Bosnia and Turkey where he is scheduled to meet Afghan
President Hamid Karzai.


The meeting comes amid increasing tension between Afghanistan and
Pakistan over the fight against Taliban militants along their
common border.


Spain and Pakistan "highlighted the importance of regional
cooperation as an effective means of promoting security, good
governance and development in Afghanistan", the joint statement
said.


Some 700 troops are taking part in NATO's mission in Afghanistan
and Madrid considers Paskistan to be essential to their safety
since the country acts as a logistics base for the soldiers.


Spain and Pakistan also agreed to look into the possibility of
signing an agreement on the transfer of sentenced prisoners and
speed up talks on a double taxation agreement.


In order to boost economic and trade relations, the two nations
agreed to set up joint working groups made up of high officials
who will meet regularly, the statement said.


This is Musharraf's first visit to Spain, which has an estimated
70,000-strong Pakistani community, since he seized power in 1999.


It is the first official trip to Spain by a Pakistani leader
since then prime minister Benazir Bhutto came in 1994.

