

Washington is open to talks with Russia to ensure future US
missile defense capabilities pose no threat to Moscow's nuclear
deterrence, US Defence Secretary Robert Gates said on Tuesday.


Speaking in Poland, which is considering hosting interceptor
missiles as part of Washington's planned missile defence system
based in Eastern Europe, Gates continued his efforts to convince
Moscow that the scheme was not counter to its interests.


"In terms of assurances that the system would not be changed
years from now in a way that might be more threatening to the
Russian deterrent, it seems to me that is a matter that can be
negotiated," he told a press conference.


Gates provided no details and it was unclear whether the scope of
such negotiations would involve the broader US missile defense
system, or only the proposed European component.


His comments came as it was announced that US President George W.
Bush would meet his Polish counterpart Lech Kaczynski in Warsaw
on June 8 to discuss the system, which the US claims would deter
a potential threat from Iran.


Gates has invited the Russians to inspect a US interceptor
missile site in Fort Greely, Alaska and a radar in California to
clear up what he said was Russian misunderstanding about the
capability of the system being proposed for Europe.


"Clearly, they have questions about the capabilities of the
radar, and I think those are questions that we can answer," he
said.


The US has proposed siting 10 interceptor missiles in Poland and
a targeting radar in the Czech Republic by 2012. They would be
oriented toward ballistic missile threats from the south.


Polish Defence Minister Aleksander Szczyglo, who joined Gates in
a press conference after they held talks here, said Warsaw was
prepared to host the missile defence site if it enhances Poland's
security.


"This US project should increase the level of security in Europe,
specifically in Poland," Szczyglo said.


The US defence chief also sought to allay Polish concerns that
hosting the missiles could bring retaliatory measures from
Russia, which is riled by the US plan to extend the defense
system to its backyard.


He said he did not believe that Russia is a military threat to
Poland "either now or should we install a missile defense."


"I said in Russia we aren't talking about tomorrow or next year
but what the world will look like in 10 or 20 years. The world
changes in dramatic ways and what we are talking about here is
indivisible security for the United States and our NATO allies,"
he said.


"We would like to extend that umbrella to Russia and partner with
Russia, to have Russia be with us in this program," he said.


Despite repeated rebuffs from Russia, Gates said he was
"cautiously optimistic" after his talks Monday with Russian
President Vladimir Putin, First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei
Ivanov and Defence Minister Anatoly Serduykov.


He said the two countries could explore new concepts and
technologies, conduct joint research and development of missile
defence systems, share missile early warning data, and improve
their forces' ability to operate together on missile defence.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Tuesday however told
reporters in Luxembourg the planned US missile shield could
destabilise Europe and called for "a joint analysis of the
threat."


"One gets the impression that everything has already been decided
in Washington," he said, adding, "We don't really see a way of
joining the project, we don't see what interest there is in
that."


The plan has also unsettled some US allies, including Germany,
which Gates is scheduled to visit on Wednesday before returning
to Washington.


He was due to hold talks with President Kaczynski before leaving
Poland.


An opinion poll published by the CBOS agency found that six in 10
Poles are opposed to the system and only 25 percent favor it.

