

The US Chamber of Commerce expressed satisfaction Tuesday after
an Indonesian court acquitted Newmont Mining on pollution
charges, saying the decision is a positive signal to foreign
investors.


The US business group said the ruling would bolster confidence in
the judicial system in Indonesia.


Prosecutors had sought a three-year jail term for company
executive Richard Ness in a high-profile case closely watched by
international business leaders, environmentalists and the
Indonesian government.


Both Ness and the local branch of Newmont, the world's largest
gold miner, were acquitted, although prosecutors said they would
appeal.


They had been charged with pumping tonnes of waste containing
mercury and arsenic into Buyat Bay, which is some 2,300
kilometers (1,400 miles) northeast of Jakarta, from its now
defunct mine on Sulawesi island.


The US chamber noted that a World Health Organization study in
2004 concluded that the bay was not contaminated and that neither
villagers nor fish showed toxic levels of metals in their bodies.


"The Chamber believes this verdict will help bolster Indonesia's
reputation among foreign investors and send a positive signal to
future companies who want to invest in the region," a statement
from the Washington-based group said.


Newmont said in a separate statement that it was pleased by what
it called a "correct" ruling.


"We could not be more pleased that this case was decided on the
facts and evidence presented in court," said Newmont chairman and
chief executive Wayne Murdy.


"Anyone who followed the evidence presented in this case would
have expected this result. It is the correct decision, and there
is no factual or legal basis upon which to reasonably dispute
this outcome."


Newmont vice president of Asia operations, Robert Gallagher, said
he hoped the ruling would end "any residual concern in regard to
the condition of Buyat Bay."


He added, "The government and (the company) have established the
independent scientific panel that will monitor and report on
Buyat Bay for almost another decade, and we are confident that it
will confirm what we have always said: there is no pollution."

