

Russia's first president, Boris Yeltsin, is to be buried on
Wednesday on the grounds of a 16th century monastery after a
funeral service in the Moscow cathedral he helped build.


Russia's farewell to its first post-Soviet leader, who died
Monday, began Tuesday with a lying-in-state and liturgy in Christ
the Saviour, the lavish golden-domed cathedral rebuilt near the
Kremlin by Yeltsin as a symbol of Russia's revival.


On Wednesday Yeltsin's coffin will again be opened to the public
in the cathedral from 8:00 am to 12:30 pm (0400 GMT to 0830 GMT),
a Kremlin spokesman said.


At 1:30 pm an hour-long religious service will attended by
Russian President Vladimir Putin, former US presidents Bill
Clinton and George H.W. Bush as well as Belarussian President
Alexander Lukashenko, he said.


Other leaders expected to attend include former British prime
minister John Major, German President Horst Kohler and a number
of leaders of countries that gained independence when Yeltsin
helped break up the Soviet Union in 1991.


A cortege will then bring Yeltsin's coffin the 3.5-kilomtres (2.2
miles) to the Novodevichy cemetery, where he will be buried
"after 3:00 pm" Moscow time, the Kremlin spokesman said.


The ceremony will be shown live on television as the nation holds
a day of mourning, with flags flown at half-mast across the
country and television entertainment programmes cancelled, the
Kremlin said in a statement.


Yeltsin will be buried next to leading Russian public figures
such as playwright Anton Chekhov, Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev
and opera singer Fyodor Shalyapin in the grounds of the
Novodevichy convent.


The convent, famous for its peaceful and picturesque setting by
the Moscow River, was founded in the 16th century and inhabited
by many female relatives of Russia's Tsars.


Yeltsin will be the first Kremlin leader since Khrushchev --
outcast after his ouster in 1964 -- not to be interred by the
Kremlin wall on Red Square.


Every other Soviet leader from Stalin to Konstantin Chernenko is
buried in the plot behind Lenin's granite mausoleum, where the
revolutionary leader lies embalmed.

