

Jose Mourinho has warned his Chelsea players they should not
expect a fair fight in their Champions League semi-final against
Liverpool.


Mourinho fears Rafa Benitez's side, who visit Stamford Bridge for
the first leg on Wednesday, will try to provoke the Chelsea
players who are one booking away from a suspension that would
rule them out of the return at Anfield next Tuesday.


The Chelsea manager insists Benitez has every possible advantage
because he has less players close to a ban and has been able to
rest key personnel ahead of their second meeting in three years
at this stage of Europe's elite club competition.


Chelsea's Didier Drogba, Joe Cole, Lassana Diarra and Michael
Ballack are the players who would be ruled out of the decisive
clash on Merseyside, although Ballack is out with an ankle
injury, while only Jermaine Pennant could suffer the same fate
for the Reds.


It is not the first time gamesmanship has been a factor in a
match between these increasingly bitter rivals.


Benitez will remember only too well that his Spanish midfielder
Xabi Alonso was suspended for the Champions League semi-final
second leg two years ago after being harshly booked for a tackle
that Chelsea's Eidur Gudjohnsen was accused of exaggerating.


Mourinho was determined to highlight the kind of tactics referee
Markus Merk must watch out for.


"This will be a fight between teams not in the same level. We
have players out injured and there is another factor that can
play an important part; they don't have yellow cards," said
Mourinho.


"We have a lot of players with two yellow cards and it would not
surprise me if they chase Drogba for 90 minutes and try and get
him suspended for the second game.


"They even had the chance to clean cards. Dirk Kuyt got a yellow
card in the last minute against PSV because he didn't want to
play the second game, so he is clean for the rest of the
competition."


Benitez was quick to hit back at Mourinho's accusations and
inevitably raised the issue of Alonso's suspension.


"I don't know why he is thinking about this," Benitez said.
"Maybe because two years ago he was doing the same with Xabi.


"If it is a message for the referee, he has enough experience. If
Drogba does a foul he will be booked, it is the same for
everybody. If it is a foul it should be a booking."


Liverpool's two semi-final victories over Chelsea in the
Champions League in 2005 and the FA Cup last season have
obviously got under Mourinho's skin and he was in a feisty mood
as he took a swipe at Benitez's failure to mount a sustained
challenge for the title.


Mourinho claimed he would have been sacked long ago if he had the
same record at Chelsea that Benitez has at Anfield.


"Three years without a Premiership? I think you have to ask
(Chelsea chairman) Bruce Buck, but I don't think I would be
here," said Mourinho, whose side were outclassed by Liverpool in
their Premiership meeting in late January losing 2-0.


"I am not a statistics man, but in the last three seasons Chelsea
can have something like 60 points more than Liverpool.


"So if they are a great team in knock-out competitions we have to
admit that and praise them for it. But if you play only one
competition for half of the season they can have great conditions
and since January they have played only the Champions League.


"Historically they are not a big club, they are a monster. But at
this moment they play in one competition and succeed in knockout
competitions."

