

US home sales plummeted by the biggest amount in 18 years, much
more sharply than expected in March, dashing hopes that the
market was on the verge of a rebound, an industry survey showed
Tuesday.


The National Association of Realtors (NAR) said existing home US
sales sank a heavy 8.4 percent to an annualized pace of 6.12
million units last month, well below most forecasts that had
anticipated sales of 6.45 million units.


The drop in sales was the largest since January 1989 and home
sales are now at their lowest level since June of 2003.


NAR officials blamed the decline partly on colder weather during
March saying it likely kept potential buyers cooped up indoors.


The sharp drop in sales of apartments and family homes across the
country came after sales had risen for three straight months,
raising hopes that the market downturn was bottoming out.


The monthly report also showed that falling prices, following a
long boom in the property market that ended last year, had failed
to stimulate sales last month.


The median sales price of a home slipped 0.3 percent to 217,000
dollars.


The property market downturn has been exacerbated in recent
months by rising home foreclosures and other pressures on
homeowners, such as high gasoline prices.


The fizz has also come out home sales as speculators have exited
the market.


Headlines about spiking home foreclosures and economic concerns
have dragged down sales and also hit home builders hard.


Earlier this month, America's biggest homebuilder, D.R. Horton,
Inc., reported a hefty 37 percent slump in new home orders as
cautious buyers held back on new home purchases.


The latest NAR report also showed existing home sales are 11.3
percent below the 6.90 million-unit pace of March 2006.


"For the last couple months we've been expecting a weather 'hit'
on home sales finalized in March," said the NAR's chief economist
David Lereah.


"We also may be seeing some losses as a result of the subprime
fallout," he said, referring to mortgage loans granted to home
buyers with poor credit records.


Lereah say the group, nonetheless, was still expecting sales to
pick up during late 2007.


Total housing inventory levels declined 1.6 percent at the end of
March to 3.75 million existing homes available for sale, which
represents a 7.3-month supply at the current sales clip.

