

Bags allegedly containing the blood of Ivan Basso will be taken
from Spain to Italy where the Italian cycling star could be asked
to give a DNA sample in a bid to prove his innocence.


Basso was on Tuesday suspended by his team, Discovery Channel,
after the Italian authorities announced they want to question him
further over his involvement in the Spanish doping affair dubbed
'Operation Puerto'.


In May 2006 Madrid police uncovered bags of blood and doping
products during a laboratory raid, along with codenames of
cyclists and documents which pointed to organised doping and
blood doping.


Spanish doctor Eufemiano Fuentes, known for working with several
Spanish cycling teams in the past, was at the centre of the
affair which erupted days prior to last year's Tour de France.


Basso was kicked off the Tour by his former team CSC after it was
revealed that he and German Jan Ullrich, formerly of T-Mobile,
were among dozens of cyclists to have links with Fuentes.


Investigators in Germany recently confirmed that the blood which
was initially attributed to Ullrich in the Operation Puerto
affair turned out to match a DNA sample from the German.


Ullrich, the 1997 Tour de France winner, has proclaimed his
innocence and since retired from the sport.


According to Spanish magazine Interviu, bags containing blood
belonging to Basso will soon be collected by Italian magistrates
and taken back to Italy to be tested.


The magazine said: "Officials from the Bergamo prosecutor's
office will soon arrive in Madrid to collect bags of blood,
labelled 'number two' and which Spanish investigators have
attributed to Ivan Basso."


The Italian sports authorities have yet to confirm whether they
will test the blood and ask Basso for a DNA sample, however given
the developments with the Ullrich case that could be the likely
path they take.


According to Interviu, several documents seized by police in
Operation Puerto link Basso to Fuentes.


The name linking the reigning Tour of Italy champion to the
affair is "Birillo", which according to Italian reports is the
name of Basso's dog.


The name "Birillo" also appears in a calendar which details
extractions and injections of blood, according to the magazine.


The Italian Olympic Committee (CONI), which had initially cleared
Basso of any wrongdoing last autumn, has asked him to appear
before an anti-doping prosecutor on May 2, where he could be
asked to provide a DNA sample to prove his innocence.

