

Mexico City legislators Tuesday debated draft legislation
expected to lead to the landmark legalization of abortion in the
capital of the predominantly Roman Catholic country.


As the 66 lawmakers debated the proposed law, backers and
opponents of the bill demonstrated outside the city's
legislature, with police deployed to keep the two sides apart and
away from the entrance of the downtown building.


The bitter insults traded by the rival demonstrators mirrored the
emotional nature of the debate in this socially conservative
country.


"Damn fascists," one man yelled out at the anti-abortion
protesters, to which a rival demonstrator answered "they should
have aborted you, bloody murderer."


The draft legislation was widely expected to be approved by the
legislature, which is dominated by the Party of the Democratic
Revolution (PRD) of Mexico City Mayor Marcelo Ebrard.


Mexican President Felipe Calderon's conservative National Action
Party (PAN) strongly opposes the proposed legislation, and the
first lady took part Sunday in an anti-abortion protest.


If the law is passed, as expected, the megalopolis would become
one of the rare parts of Latin America where abortion is legal
without restrictions in the first three months of pregnancy.
Cuba, Guyana and Puerto Rico have similar legislation.


The bill would mean first trimester abortions would be legal in
the capital, though they would remain generally illegal in the
rest of the country.


Until now abortions in Mexico have only been allowed in cases of
rape or if the pregnancy entailed serious health risks.


Tuesday's debate followed months of controversy, that saw Pope
Benedict XVI urge Mexicans to reject the bill, while some Roman
Catholic officials threatened to excommunicate anyone supporting
it.


The Catholic bishop of the state of Chiapas has compared the
legislators who drafted the text with Adolf Hitler, though he
also condemned the fact some of them received death threats.


Outside the Legislative Assembly building, protesters chanted "No
to abortion, yes to life" and waved religious pictures, while
supporters of the bill held banners proclaiming "the right to
decide."


Supporters of the bill say the current situation only accentuates
social inequalities, with impoverished women getting clandestine
abortions in unhygienic backstreet clinics, as Mexicans who can
afford to pay about 1,000 dollars undergo the procedure in well-
appointed facilities.


About 100,000 women undergo abortion every year in Mexico,
according to official figures, though some non-governmental
organizations say the figure is as high as 500,000.


Opinion polls indicate Mexicans are sharply divided over the
question of abortion.


"Women have the right to decide before conceiving a child, not
after," said Christina Benaviles, 43, a home maker who
demonstrated outside the city's legislative assembly on Tuesday.


Bank employee Rebecca Var, 52, who stood on the other side of the
fence, insisted that legalizing abortion "is a question of public
health, not a moral issue."

