

British oil giant BP on Tuesday reported a 17-percent slide in
first-quarter net earnings on lower crude prices and a fall in
production.


BP said net profit in the January-March period fell 17 percent
from the same quarter of 2006 to 4.664 billion dollars (3.440
billion euros).


First quarter oil output declined 3.0 percent to 3.912 million
barrels per day from the first three months of 2006, the company
said in a statement. Production has now fallen for the last seven
quarters.


First quarter results were also hurt by weakening oil prices,
with the average price of a barrel of Brent North Sea crude
coming to 57.76 dollars in the first quarter against 61.79
dollars in the same period a year earlier.


On the London Stock Exchanges BP shares lost 1.56 percent over
the day to close at 568.50 pence.


The company did not release a commentary on its prospects, which
usually accompanies quarterly results.


"BP continues its dogged fight to recapture former glories," said
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in a note, while at Citigroup
analysts described the results as "uninspiring" and said they
could trigger weakness in BP's share price in the short term.


"With no extensive outlook statement, the market is left to
wonder about operational recovery," Citigroup said.


BP has been struggling to regain investor confidence after a
traumatic two years, highlighted by a fatal explosion at the
Texas City refinery in the United States that left 15 people dead
and the partial shutdown of its 400,000-barrel per day Prudhoe
Bay field in Alaska following a leak in poorly maintained
pipelines.


Some analysts have said the setbacks hastened the retirement of
chief executive Lord Browne, who is leaving in July, over a year
ahead of schedule. Browne will be replaced by Tony Hayward,
currently in charge of the exploration and production business.


Lower output and increased costs reduced earnings at the group's
exploration and production business by 11 percent to 6.034
billion dollars. The group made a one-time gain of 748 million
dollars in the quarter from disposals, against a charge of 386
million dollars previously.


Earnings at the refining and marketing unit were nearly halved to
838 million dollars after a one-time charge of 229 million
dollars linked to asset writedowns and operational problems at
its US refineries.


Repairs to a refinery in the US midwestern state of Indiana,
where output has has been halved to around 200,000 barrels a day,
are continuing, BP said.


"It's not going to be a quick fix," acknowledged a BP spokesman,
adding that the work would take several weeks to complete.


Despite weak profits, however, BP raised dividends for the
quarter to 10.325 cents a share from 9.375 cents previously, in
line with expectations.

