

Uganda's health ministry said Tuesday it would start using DDT,
an insecticide banned in many countries because of environmental
concerns, as part of its growing battle against malaria.


Indoor spraying would begin in the southwestern districts of
Kabale and Kanungu during the dry seasons to avoid contamination,
said John Bosco Rwakimari, malaria control programme chief.


"The environment impact assessment was done and the environmental
authority has cleared us to use DDT," Rwakimari told AFP.


"We cannot spray during rainy seasons. We have to wait for the
dry season and we shall start in August in Kabale."


In 2005, Uganda announced plans to use the chemical, a highly
effective mosquito killer, to reduce malaria infections, which
now account for up to 50 percent of all out-patients across the
country.


The government is anxious to reduce the infection rate of
malaria, which now kills an estimated 70,000 people, mainly
children under five, a year and has shown no signs of backing
down.


But environmentalists have warned that DDT, banned in many
countries in the 1970s, has a devastating effect on birds and
fish and can remain in the soil for up to 15 years after its
application.


The European Union has warned Uganda that its exports to Europe
may suffer if it goes ahead with the plan.


But Rwakimari said the use of the pesticide would significantly
reduce malaria cases in the country, which spends 164 million
dollars every year on malaria drugs.


"If we would carry out the second round the following year, 50
percent of the burden will go, while 90 percent of the burden
will go if the process was repeated annually for five years," he
said.


In addition to the deaths, Uganda spends about 347 million
dollars per year in treating malaria sufferers, who currently
account for 40 percent of outpatients in the country.


Malaria kills more than a million people a year and at least 300
million cases of acute malaria occur annually, 90 percent of them
in sub-Saharan Africa, WHO says.

