

British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned here on Tuesday that
wealthy Western countries would ultimately suffer if they failed
to fulfill their pledges to help the development of Africa.


Blair, former UN chief Kofi Annan and German Chancellor Angela
Merkel met in the German capital to discuss the work of the
Africa Progress Panel. Chaired by by Annan, it was set up last
June to monitor the progress of rich countries in meeting their
commitments to Africa.


Leaders of the Group of Eight most industrialised nations pledged
at the British-hosted Gleneagles summit two years ago to grant
substantial debt relief and double aid to Africa by 2010.


While the debt relief goals have largely been met, most G8
countries are well behind on the aid targets.


Merkel has promised that Africa will be also one of the key
themes at this year's G8 summit hosted by Germany.


Blair said debt relief to Africa had totalled around 38 billion
dollars (28 billion euros) in recent years and there had been
"significant, though not enough, increases in the aid money that
has been given."


He said the consequences of failing to help Africa could be dire.


"The more I look at what is happening in Africa, in some of the
worst trouble spots, in Sudan and Somalia and so on, the more I
am convinced that if we do not take a responsible and long-term
view of Africa and its need to develop and make progress then we
will end up ultimately with our own self-interest back in
countries like Germany and the UK being damaged as a result of
the poverty, the conflict, the mass migration and the spread of
terrorism," he told journalists.


Blair said it had been shown that "where the help is given it
does make a difference.


"There are health service systems and education systems being
transformed and changed as a result of the help and commitment
that has been given by the international community," he added.


Merkel and Annan said the Africa Progress Panel was seeking to
ensure that existing debt targets were met.


"We are not asking for new promises, we are asking for the
implementation of what has been promised and I am encouraged by
the meeting we've had and by the support we've received from both
leaders," Annan said.


The former UN Secretary General said African leaders were
increasingly aware that "they have to solve these political
conflicts to be able to focus on the economic and social issues."


He pointed to conflicts resolved in Angola, Sierre Leone,
Liberia, Burundi, and Eritrea and Ethiopia as proof that Africa
could get its own house in order.


Annan said earlier he would be delighted if Blair were to join
the panel after he left office this year. Blair is yet to reveal
his future plans.


Merkel said it was time for wealthy countries to meet their
pledges.


"We don't need more meetings to set targets, we already have the
targets. Now we need to make a certain amount of progress.


"The German presidency (of the G8) will take over the impulse of
Gleneagles," she said.


The G8 summit takes place on June 6-8 in Heiligendamm and will be
attended by the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, Russia and the United States.

