

Disappointing US economic news, especially a sharp plunge in
existing home sales, pushed the dollar lower against other world
currencies Tuesday.


The economic headlines and a report from the National Association
of Realtors showing that US existing homes sales fell by their
biggest level in over 18 years in March depressed the dollar and
saw the euro soar.


The euro was changing hands at 1.3640 dollars at 2100 GMT, up
strongly from 1.3575 dollars in New York late Monday, and within
close striking range of 1.3666 dollars, its record high struck on
December 30, 2004.


The dollar meanwhile was quoted at 118.55 yen, down from 118.64
late Monday.


"Two housing indicators, a consumer confidence survey and
regional manufacturing report all hammered the dollar when
traders realized that not one of the indicators met or beat its
market consensus," said John Kicklighter, a currency analyst at
Forex Capital Markets.


The dollar has weakened notably in recent months in part amid a
weakening of the US economy, but also as Europe's economy has
shown signs of economic resilience.


"Soft US data combined with expectations of steady if
unspectacular European growth ahead is helping narrow the
dollar's interest advantage further," said Thomson IFR Markets
analyst Jamie Coleman.


Prospects of higher European interest rates have also stoked
demand for the European currency.


The dollar weakened after the NAR said existing US home sales
dived a heavy 8.4 percent to an annualized pace of 6.12 million
units in March. Most economists had expected that sales would
only fall to 6.45 million units from 6.68 million in February.


The drop in homes sales was the largest since January 1989 when
sales dived 12.6 percent, and sales are now at their lowest ebb
since June of 2003.


The dollar fell as fears mounted that the housing market downturn
has yet to bottom out and amid lingering concerns it could deepen
a wider economic slowdown.


The dollar was also depressed after the Conference Board said its
consumer confidence index fell to 104.0 from 108.2 in March,
marking a second straight monthly decline.


Standard Chartered currency analyst Marios Maratheftis said the
combination of improved economic momentum in the eurozone and
Britain should continue to support the euro and the British pound
in the short term.


"The negative trend in the dollar still has a bit longer to run,"
he predicted, although he said the trend could start reversing
itself during the third quarter.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2013 Swiss francs
against 1.2095 late Monday.


The British pound was being traded at 2.0023 dollars compared
with 2.0004 a day earlier.

