

On the eve of talks between EU and Iranian officials on Iran's
controversial nuclear program, the United States held firm
Tuesday to demands that Iran freeze all its uranium enrichment
activities.


A State Department official denied speculation that Washington
and its major power partners dealing with the issue could agree
to a compromise deal that would let Iran maintain some of its
nuclear reprocessing work.


"There is no change in our policy -- Iran needs to suspend its
enrichment- related activities if it wants to enter into
negotiations," said Gonzalo Gallegos, a department spokesman.


The United States, Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia
have offered to negotiate a package of economic and diplomatic
incentives for Tehran if it halts uranium enrichment work many
fear is a cover for developing nuclear weapons.


Tehran insists it is only seeking to enrich uranium to a low
level needed to provide fuel for nuclear power plants, an
activity it is allowed to pursue as a signatory to the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty.


Earlier this month Iran announced that it had expanded its
processing program 10-fold by building some 3,000 uranium-
enriching centrifuges and it confirmed plans to build and install
another 47,000 of the machines.


But US officials and non-proliferation experts doubt the Iranians
have mastered the difficult technique of actually enriching
uranium.


Some experts suggested the Iranians could seek a compromise
solution to the crisis under which Iran would be able to continue
building and testing centrifuges during negotiations with the six
parties, as long as no uranium was actually enriched.


The State Department appeared on Tuesday to rule this out.


Iran has defied multiple UN Security Council resolutions
demanding it freeze the enrichment work, drawing two sets of UN
sanctions, the most recent adopted last month.


Gallegos stressed that planned talks Wednesday and Thursday in
Turkey between EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and Iranian
nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani did not amount to negotiations --
something Washington says can only take place once Iran suspends
enrichment.


"The Solana-Larijani discussion will, however, afford an
opportunity for a useful, direct exchange with Iran," he said.


"We urge Iran to seize this opportunity for a diplomatic solution
to Iran's proliferation-sensitive nuclear activities and that
Larijani will be prepared for serious discussions on the issue,"
he said.

