

South Africa coach Mickey Arthur believes that aggression is the
key to success in the changing world of one-day cricket.


"It is now a power-based game and it's all about being aggressive
and having the confidence to take risks," said Arthur, who has
guided South Africa to the semi- finals of the Champions Trophy
and World Cup in the space of five months.


"I think some of the teams of the sub-continent and England are
playing a far too conservative sort of game. We have done that
(playing aggressive cricket), Australia have done that and in
some ways Sri Lanka have done that."


Arthur has also played a big role in making South Africa a top-
ranked team in one-day internationals early this year since
taking over as coach in 2005.


"When I came in, Graeme Smith (skipper) and I, looked at the ways
to improve our one-day cricket. When you bowl, you look to strike
and that was something we identified two years ago in order to be
the force we wanted to be," he said.


Arthur said players needed to stay clam before a big match in
order to put in a better performance in the field.


"The attempt is to keep the guys in a very calm state because the
standout thing for me is that with calmness comes confidence, and
with the confidence comes the patience and that's how we approach
this game," he said.


South Africa clash with defending champions Australia in the
semi-final here on Wednesday in a repeat of their 1999 World Cup
match in England where they bowed out of the tournament on
inferior net run-rate after the tied match.


They have already lost to Australia in a group match in St Kitts
last month, but Arthur said his team were well-prepared this
time.


"We have done a lot of thinking. We picked up some trends during
that game and we have obviously discussed those," he said.


"But the key word for us is calmness and don't get over anxious.
Confidence, calmness and patience are the words we have been
using going into this semi- final."


Arthur said it would be all about pressure when his team take on
Australia for a place in the final.


"It's all about absorbing pressure and then applying pressure and
the team that does that over a period of time is going to be the
team that wins. We hope to come out firing," said the South
Africa coach.


South Africa have never made it to the final since their maiden
Cup appearance in Australia in 1992.


Arthur said advancing to the title match would mean a lot to the
country.


"I think a place in the final would be huge, like for any other
country. The following and support from back home is absolutely
unbelieveable and it's amazing," he said.


"When you get a country rallying behind you, we have got a
responsibility and we will try hard not to let the whole
population down."

