

Fear that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogen's Islamist-rooted
party would lose ground in upcoming general elections if deprived
of his leadership was key in his decision not to run for the
presidency, analysts said Tuesday.


Erdogan ended weeks of speculation on his presidential ambitions,
strongly opposed by Turkey's secularists, when he named Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul as the official presidential candidate of
his Justice and Development Party (AKP) on Tuesday.


Gul was expected to win, thanks to the AKP's absolute majority in
the 550-member parliament, which elects the president for a
single, seven-year term.


"The main reason (Erdogen decided not to run) was that for the
past year or so, everyone he spoke to - from the party grassroots
to his closest entourage - told him: 'Stay at the head of the
party, or we will lose votes'" in parliamentary elections
scheduled for November, veteran political commentator Hasan Cemal
said.


Istanbul academic and political analyst Cengiz Aktar meanwhile
said that by abandoning the presidency Erdogan was enabling his
party to extend its power base.


"The bottom line is that a top AKP figure is acceding to yet
another level of power in Turkey and (if the party emerges
victorious from the November election) there will be a single
force in Turkey - the AKP," he said.


"The question is how they will use this power," he added,
explaining that Erdogan's decision to stay in active politics and
forgo the highly ceremonial post was a "tactical, not strategic
move."


Erdogan's decision "guarantees the elections" for the AKP, Aktar
said.


According to another analyst, Derya Sazak, "The general trend
among the AKP leadership... was: 'Let Erdogan run the party, pick
someone with a lower profile for the presidency, avoid a crisis
and remain in power'."


"The AKP now plans to win another election," he told the NTV news
channel. "With another five years in front of him, perhaps
Erdogan can accede to the presidency after Gul, with a
constitutional amendment or some other formula as part of a long-
term plan."


While keeping AKP in power was key to Erdogan's decision,
analysts said that a protest by up to 1.5 million people in
Ankara 10 days ago against his possible presidential run, as well
as a statement by Turkey's top general, Yasar Buyukanit,
insisting that the next president should honour secular values
"not only in words but in essence", had played a role.


"He would never admit it, but the attitude of the military and
the April 14 demonstration also played a part" in the decision,
Cemal said.


Deniz Baykal, head of the social democratic main opposition
Republican People's Party, agreed. "It is obvious that he gave up
because he is not wanted by the people ... He was taught a great
lesson in democracy."


Cemal meanwhile pointed out that Erdogen and Gul "have different
public images."


"Gul is a more moderate, more smiling person," than the
charismatic but combative, often aggressive Erdogan, whose
pugnacious public comments have created a furor among his
detractors and sometimes embarrassed his followers.


"But the secularists will say that it does not matter whether it
is Erdogan or Gul," Cemal said. "We are entering an interesting
period."


Sazak predicted "a very tough electoral campaign."


"With an AKP that has won everything and placed a very strong
political candidate in Cankaya (the presidential palace), it will
be a toe-to-toe electoral period with debates ... on whether the
secular republican order can be changed," he said.


In any case, it will signal the end of a confrontational period
between government and presidency.


Outgoing head of state Ahmet Necdet Sezer often sent back to
parliament legislation he deemed anti-secular and refused to
approve the nominations of many bureaucrats he considered
Islamist cronies of the government.


"Gul will be a rubber-stamp president," Aktar predicted.

