

Construction groups Eiffage of France and Sacyr Vallehermoso of
Spain took their takeover tussle to French courts Tuesday, each
party charging the other with infractions in Sacyr's bid to
acquire Eiffage.


Eiffage said it had filed suit in a Paris court charging certain
Sacyr shareholders with acting in concert to increase their stake
in the French group without declaring their intentions.


Management at Eiffage on Monday rejected Sacyr's 6.5-billion-euro
(8.8-billion- dollar) bid and warned it was planning legal
action.


Legal sources meanwhile said a commercial court in the Paris
suburb Nanterre had agreed to hear a case from Sacyr contesting
certain decisions at an April 18 meeting of Eiffage shareholders.


Sacyr, which already has a 33.2-percent stake in Eiffage, had
sought five seats on the management board, sparking fears in
France about a foreign takeover of one of the country's biggest
construction groups.


Spanish shareholders, who hold more than 7.0 percent of the
group, had been expected to back Sacyr's initiative at
Wednesday's general assembly.


But the company nipped their move in the bud, stripping 89
Spanish shareholders of their voting rights on grounds that they
had acted in concert to help Sacyr.


French and European employee unions have voiced concern over
Sacyr's intentions and declared themselves staunchly opposed to
any takeover moves that do not include firm and explicit
commitments on the future of the group.


Sacyr has stressed that it "wants Eiffage to be a French group,
run by a French management team" and that it has no intention of
dismantling it.


The Eiffage group, the third-largest French group in public works
and the sixth- largest in Europe, is known for building the
Millau viaduct in southern France, the tallest vehicular bridge
in the world.


And in another indication of its size, it has links to Gustave
Eiffel, who built the Eiffel Tower.


A tie-up with Sacyr would create the fourth-biggest European
civil engineering and construction group.


Eiffage head Jean-Francois Roverato meanwhile unsettled the
Spanish stock market Tuesday, asserting that his group was
justified in rejecting the takeover offer from Sacyr on the
grounds that the Spanish firm's real estate assets in its home
market "could very soon be revised down."


His comments came as Spanish stocks slumped nearly three percent
Tuesday, led by losses in the property and banking sector and
amid concern that a long-awaited property crash was imminent.


The Ibex 35 index of most traded shares, which hit successive
record highs earlier this month, closed down 2.73 percent at
14.987,10 points, easing from earlier lows.


The disquiet over the housing sector was triggered by a sharp
fall in shares in Spanish real estate company Astroc, which have
lost more than 60 percent in less than a week after an auditor's
report raised concerns over its finances.


Sacyr on Tuesday fell 8.15 percent in Madrid to close at 40.80
euros while in Paris Eiffage finished at 105.07 euros, down 1.80.

