

A former Apple executive who settled charges linked to stock-
options fraud said Tuesday he warned chief executive Steve Jobs
about potential accounting problems from the way the grants were
made.


The claims about Jobs' knowledge of the scheme came as Apple's
former top lawyer, Nancy Heinen, was charged by US federal
regulators in a civil suit with participating in a fraud related
to multi-million dollar Apple stock option awards.


The US Securities and Exchange Commission claimed Heinen had
participated in a scheme to backdate two large stock option
grants to top Apple management, including Jobs, and then altered
company records in a bid to hide her wrongdoing.


The market watchdog said it had also filed civil charges, which
were simultaneously settled, against Apple's former chief
financial officer, Fred Anderson, alleging he should have seen
what Heinen was doing and that he failed to correct Apple's
financial disclosures.


Anderson agreed to pay 3.5 million dollars as part of a
settlement with the SEC.


Heinen's attorney, Miles Ehrlich, denied in a statement sent to
AFP that his client had backdated stock options or acted
improperly.


"Every action Nancy took was fully understood and authorized by
Apple's board of directors," Ehrlich said, adding that her
"integrity is unimpeachable."


Separately, an attorney for Anderson, Jerome Roth, said the
former Apple CFO was pleased to put the matter behind him.


Roth also said that Anderson was told by Apple CEO Jobs in
January 2001 that the firm's board of directors backed one of the
option grants.


Anderson's lawyer said the executive had "cautioned Mr. Jobs that
the  Executive Team grant would have to be priced based on the
date of the actual Board agreement or there could be an
accounting charge," the statement said.


The SEC said Heinen's actions led Apple, known for its
fashionable computers and popular iPod digital music players, to
misreport its expenses by nearly 40 million dollars.


The practice of awarding special stock options to top executives
is common at many American companies, but it is improper to alter
the dates on which the options were awarded without informing the
SEC and investors.


Tweaking the date on which such an option was awarded can in
theory enrich the holder of the options if the award is
"backdated" to a time when a company's share price was lower.


"The Apple case demonstrates the Commission's ongoing commitment
to take action against stock options backdating and other
executive compensation abuses," SEC enforcement chief Linda
Chatman said in a statement.


"When corporate officers enrich themselves at the expense of a
company's shareholders, the Commission will hold the responsible
individuals accountable," Chatman said.


The SEC charges follow a high level SEC probe into Apple's stock
option practices. Prosecutors are seeking financial penalties
against Heinen and want to stop her serving again as an officer
or director of a public company.


Officials said the SEC would not be bringing any charges against
Apple due to its "extensive" cooperation with the government's
probe.

