

Marat Safin's tennis misery mounted on Tuesday as the slumping
Russian joined fellow former champion Gaston Gaudio with an early
exit at the Barcelona Open.


The 11th-seeded Safin, who lifted the title at the Real club in
2000, was unable to fight back from a first-set loss, going down
in disappointment to 103rd- ranked Simone Bolelli 6-4, 7-6 (7/5).


Safin, a former number one and two-time Grand Slam winner, has
had it tough this month on clay, winning a match in Monte Carlo
over Jarkko Nieminen but falling in the second round to Kristof
Vliegen.


"Conditions here were difficult for me and I was not playing my
best tennis," said the Russian. "I didn't have my chances.


"Like every other loss, I just have to put this one behind me.
I'll train next week and then play Rome. I need to just go out
and do my job on court."


Swede Robin Soderling extended the discomfort of former Roland
Garros champion Gaudio as he crushed the demoralised Argentine
6-1, 6-0.


Gaudio's star has fallen mightily since he won the French Open
three years ago, two years after triumphing in Barcelona.


His current slump has left the 28-year-old with a ranking of
69th, his season record now standing a dismal 4-9.


The player's lone bright spot of 2007 was an Acapulco quarter-
final in February, followed by second-round losses in Miami and
Monte Carlo.


"I don't know where my game has gone, I just can't seem to play
at the top level any more," he complained.


Soderling, seeded 13th, came to Spain with a strong 17-7 record
on top of a quarter-final last week in the principality. Number
14 Nicolas Almagro beat Italy's Fabio Fognini, Italy, 6-3, 6-2.


Belgian Vliegen moved into the second round and a test against
clay-court monster Rafael Nadal after beating Italian veteran
Davide Sanguinetti 6-2, 6-4.


The Spanish top seed, riding a 67-match win streak on clay, beat
the Belgian last week in the third round on the way to a third
consecutive Monte Carlo title.


Nadal is bidding to lift a third consecutive Barcelona title as
he prepares for a another run at the French Open crown starting
May 27.


Third seed Tommy Robredo and number four David Nalbandian reached
the third round, winning opening matches after byes.


Robredo won an all-Spanish battle over Feliciano Lopez 6-2, 6-2.
Nalbandian levelled his modest season record at 8-8 with a defeat
of number 94 Albert Martin 6-2, 6-0.


American teenager Sam Querrey took a loss as he played in only
his second clay match at the ATP level, going down in the first
round to Italian Potito Starace 6-4, 6-4.

