

A former senior British judge, Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, on Tuesday
resigned as the coroner heading the inquest into the death of
Princess Diana and her Egyptian boyfriend Dodi al-Fayed.


Butler-Sloss, 73, promised a smooth handover to her successor
Lord Justice Scott Baker in June, saying she was quitting in the
interests of the inquest "after a great deal of thought and
reflection".


"This inquest now requires a jury and I do not have the degree of
experience of jury cases that I feel is necessary and appropriate
for presiding over an inquest of this level of public interest,"
she said.


In January, she said she would head the inquest on her own, but
in March, the High Court ruled in favour of Fayed's father
Mohammed, insisting that the inquest into their deaths must be
heard by a jury.


Fayed senior, the millionaire owner of Harrod's department store,
claims the couple's deaths were part of a plot by the British
establishment opposed to the mother of the future king marrying a
Muslim.


Not to have a jury would confirm his suspicions of a cover-up, he
said.


Butler-Sloss, who has said she had not yet seen a "shred of
evidence" to back charges of such a plot, said she will step down
in June when Lord Justice Scott Baker will take over.


"I must stress this does not require a fresh start for the
inquest," she said. "I will continue to preside over the pre-
inquest hearings until Lord Justice Scott Baker takes up the
appointment in June.


"This will ensure the inquest's momentum is maintained while he
will also have the opportunity to familiarise himself with the
voluminous paperwork associated with the inquest."


The inquest's main hearing is scheduled for around October.


Under British law, inquests are only used to establish basic
facts about a death and cannot determine blame or liability.


Diana married Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, in 1981 and
was a hugely popular member of Britain's royal family. The couple
separated in 1992 and divorced in 1996.


She was killed in a Paris car crash on August 31, 1997 along with
Dodi Fayed and his chauffeur Henri Paul.


Fayed senior has refused to accept the conclusions of the British
police report by Lord John Stevens which was published last
December.


He has dismissed its conclusions that the crash was a tragic
accident caused by a drunk driver travelling too fast, saying it
was a cover-up and "garbage".

