

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday vowed to veto an emergency
Iraq war- funding bill that sets an April 1, 2008 goal for
withdrawing most US combat forces.


In a statement on the South Lawn of the White House, Bush said he
was "disappointed" by the legislation and warned that any pull-
out timetable would "embolden our enemies" and "handcuff our
generals."


"I strongly believe that the Democrats' proposal would undermine
our troops and threaten the safety of the American people here at
home," he said. "They know I'm going to veto a bill containing
these provisions."


The 124.2 billion dollar bill -- compromise legislation hammered
out between House and Senate negotiators late Monday -- calls for
withdrawal of most US combat forces from Iraq beginning no later
than October 1, 2007, with a non- binding goal for completing the
pullout by April 1, 2008.


Democrats, who took control of the US Congress in November
elections fueled by deep public anger at the war, lack the two-
thirds majority to override a presidential veto.


"I know that Americans have serious concerns about this war.
People want our troops to come home, and so do I," said Bush, who
warned against letting "politics and impatience" govern decisions
about the unpopular conflict.


"No matter how frustrating the fight can be, and no matter how
much we wish the war was over, the security of our country
depends directly on the outcome in Iraq," said Bush.


"Precipitous withdrawal from Iraq is not a plan to bring peace to
the region or to make our people safer at home. Instead, it would
embolden our enemies and confirm their belief that America is
weak," said Bush.


"It could unleash chaos in Iraq that could spread across the
entire region. It would be an invitation to the enemy to attack
America and our friends around the world.


"And ultimately, a precipitous withdrawal would increase the
probability that American troops would one day have to return to
Iraq and confront an enemy that's even more dangerous," said the
president.

