

Canadian relatives of 15 Falungong followers jailed in China
asked on Tuesday Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay to bring
up their plight during an upcoming official visit to Beijing.


"The persecution of Falungong is a key policy of the Chinese
regime among its many severe human rights violations," said Li
Xun, president of the Falun Dafa Association of Canada.


"It is a serious issue that must be raised during any human
rights talks with the regime."


China banned the spiritual group in 1999, accusing Falungong of
spreading rumors in a bid to undermine "social stability" and
Beijing's international relations, but the group is politically
active in Canada.


The Canadian wing is expected to meet with the Foreign Affairs
Department's China Desk on Wednesday to outline the plight of the
15, including the brother of a refugee who was himself freed from
a Chinese prison with help from Canadian lawmakers, and the
Beijing branch manager of Paris-based PCM Pumps.


The group accused Chinese authorities of "beating" and
"brainwashing" their brethren, and sending them to forced labor
camps.


Asylum seeker Yao Lian said PCM Pumps was "pressured to abandon
their inquiries if they wished to continue doing business in
China" after her husband Ma Jian was arrested at their Beijing
offices.


"His arrest had a huge impact on their operations," she said,
noting that French presidential candidate Segolene Royal wrote to
Falun Dafa's Paris offices to "express concern" about Ma's fate,
but failed to secure his release.


A Canadian government spokesman was not immediately available for
comment.


But relations between Beijing and Ottawa have been strained
recently over accusations that China is spying on Canadian
corporations, the jailing of a Canadian imam in China, Canada's
failure to deport a Chinese fugitive, talks between Ottawa and
the Dalai Lama as well as stalled trade negotiations.


Last month, the wife of a Chinese diplomat defected to Canada and
accused Beijing's embassy in Ottawa of inciting hatred against
Falungong practitioners in Canada.

