

Native American and Alaskan women are suffering rates of rape and
sexual violence nearly three times higher than the US national
average, Amnesty says in a new study released Tuesday.


The human rights watchdog said a complex maze of tribal, state
and federal jurisdictions often allowed men to rape with
impunity, creating a vicious cycle that emboldened rapists and
led to more attacks.


The study cited Justice Department figures which indicated that
American Indian and Alaska Native women were 2.5 times more
likely to be raped or sexually assaulted than women in the United
States in general.


The figures said more than one in three Native women would be
raped in their lifetime, although that figure may in fact be
substantially higher because of a traditional reluctance to
report sex crimes.


"Native women are brutalized at an alarming rate, and the United
States government, a purported champion of women's rights, is
unfortunately contributing to the problem," said Larry Cox,
executive director of Amnesty International USA.


"It is disgraceful that such abuse even exists today. Without
immediate action, an already abysmal and outrageous situation for
women could spiral even further out of control."


The Amnesty report "Maze of Injustice: The Failure to Protect
Indigenous Women From Sexual Violence in the USA" said many rape
investigations stalled as officers tried to establish who the
investigating authority was.


A dearth of trained Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners at Indian
Health Service facilities also meant Native Women do not get
timely responses from police and sometimes never received basic
forensic medical examinations.


Amnesty accused the US government of undermining tribal justice
systems by consistent under-funding.


It cited the example of the 2.3 million acre Standing Rock Sioux
Reservation spread across North and South Dakota which
occasionally has only one police officer on duty to cover the
entire region.


Amnesty said women reporting rape or sex crimes in Standing Rock
often had to wait hours or days before receiving a response from
police.


Alaska was the rape capital of the United States, Amnesty said
citing FBI statistics. Between 2000 and 2003, one study found
that native Alaskan women in Anchorage were roughly 10 times more
likely to be raped than other women in the city.


To tackle the problem, Amnesty called on Congress to increase
funding to the Indian Health Service in order to train and employ
more nurses qualified to examine victims of sex attacks.


Amnesty also demanded the federal government provide necessary
funding for police forces on Indian reservations and in Alaskan
Native villages.

