

Eritrea is unlikely to send troops into Somalia's war-torn
capital, experts said on Tuesday following US claims that Asmara
is supporting rebels fighting Somali and Ethiopian forces in
Mogadishu.


While it is completely "credible" that the Eritrean government is
supporting the insurgents fighting its rival Ethiopia in
Mogadishu, an Eritrean military intervention in Somalia remains
highly unlikely, according to Roland Marchal, a researcher at the
Paris-based Centre for International Studies and Research (CERI).


Asmara may very well be "training units in Eritrea" and offering
the insurgents "logistical support", but the possibility of an
Eritrean military incursion into the shattered Somali capital
would be "very difficult, or, if it is the case, it would be very
minor," Marchal said.


The United States on Monday accused Eritrea of fanning the flames
of the Somali conflict by providing funding, arms and training to
the insurgents battling government forces and allied Ethiopian
troops in the capital.


Ethiopia intervened in Somalia, with tacit US support, in
December to help oust an Islamist movement which had seized
control of much of the country from the transitional federal
government.


Since then, Ethiopian forces and the insurgents in Mogadishu have
battled with tanks, mortars and other heavy weapons in fighting
that has claimed over 1,000 lives, at least 256 of them in the
past week, and forced hundreds of thousands of people to flee
their homes.


On Tuesday, four civilians were killed when a car exploded
outside a hotel housing government officials in Mogadishu shortly
after a suicide attacker detonated a truck bomb in an Ethiopian
camp outside the capital, wounding at least two Somali government
soldiers, witnesses said.


The increasing violence of the clashes and the intensity of the
Ethiopian bombings have prompted worldwide outcry, including from
the United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


Ban "deplores the reported indiscriminate use of heavy weapons
against civilian population centres, which is in disregard of
international humanitarian law," his spokeswoman Michele Montas
said in a statement on Monday.


US Assistant Secretary of State, Jendaye Frazer, claimed Monday
that "Eritrea has not been playing a constructive role in Somalia
because they continue to fund, arm, train and advise the
insurgents."


However, getting new supplies of weapons and munitions to the
rebels has become all but impossible since the Somali government
troops and their Ethiopian allies have seized control of all the
entry points to Mogadishu, according to a Western expert on
Somalia based in Eastern Africa, who requested anonymity due to
security concerns.


"Everything is locked tight," he said, maintaining that
government forces and Ethiopian troops are in control of all the
airports in the Mogadishu region as well as of all roads leading
into the capital.


The Ethiopian strategy to strangle the insurgency has begun
showing results, the expert said. "The insurgents are living off
their supplies."


In a city where loads of weapons of all calibres have been
readily available since the 1991 civil war, heavy arms and large
calibre munitions have recently disappeared from the city's large
arms market, which remains open, residents said.


Many worry that Ethiopia will step up its military intervention
in the Somali capital.


"The military solution is the one that seems to prevail today" in
Mogadishu, Marchal said.


The Western Somalia expert agreed. "The Ethiopians are there for
good," he said, adding that he did not believe Addis Abeba would
halt its offensive.


But the Ethiopians were "surprised by so much resistance" since
their first offensive in Mogadishu at the end of March, the
expert said.


The increasing violence, he claimed, was due to the fact that
"the insurgents have their back to the wall ... They know that
they can only leave (Mogadishu) with their feet first."

