

Queen Elizabeth II is to pay tribute to the 32 victims killed in
the Virginia Tech massacre when she visits the United States next
month, her office said Tuesday.


A spokeswoman said Buckingham Palace was in discussions with the
British embassy there and Virginia state authorities to determine
what form the tribute may take, although a royal visit to the
campus was ruled out.


"It's important that it's done in the right way so that the
Virginia Tech community and governor's office are content," she
told reporters at a pre-trip briefing at the central London
palace.


"It's a significant and terrible tragedy in the state. As the
queen is visiting so closely after the tragedy, it's important
that it's recognised and everybody readily agrees to that."


Virginia Tech University senior Cho Seung-Hui gunned down 32
students and teachers before killing himself on April 16, sending
shockwaves around the world.


The queen and her husband Prince Philip are visiting the United
States from May 3 to May 8 to mark the 400th anniversary of the
founding of Jamestown, Virginia, the first permanent English
settlement in North America.


The royal couple will also visit Richmond, Williamsburg and
Norfolk in Virginia as well as Washington, where they will be
received by US President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura.


They will also tour the NASA Goddard Centre, where the queen will
witness conversations between mission control and astronauts on
the International Space Station.


It will be the queen's fourth state visit to the United States,
and her first in 16 years. During her first trip in 1957, she met
former president Dwight D. Eisenhower for the 350th anniversary
of the Jamestown settlement.


Meanwhile, carbon emissions from the 81-year-old monarch's
flights to, from and within the United States will be offset for
the first time. Exact figures were still being worked out, the
spokeswoman said.


Carbon offsetting involves individuals or organisations
compensating for the amount of carbon dioxide generated through
travel and energy use through for example financial donations to
environmentally-friendly projects such as tree- planting.


The move comes after the queen's son and heir, Prince Charles,
announced in December last year that he was to reduce the impact
of overseas royal visits on the environment by "greening" his
transport and the way his office is run.


That included replacing carbon-heavy private planes and
helicopters with scheduled flights and trains "where
appropriate."


But he flew into a storm in January this year after jetting to
the United States to pick up an environment award.


The queen and Prince Philip will travel on a private charter
British Airways Boeing 777 jet, with an entourage of about 35,
including representatives from Britain's Foreign Office.


"This is indeed the first time that one of the queen's official
state visits will have a carbon offset," the royal spokeswoman
said, adding that discussions had been ongoing with the transport
ministry for "some time."


"Because it's public money it must conform with carbon offsetting
criteria set by the government," the spokeswoman said.

