

Senior US officials confronted Cambodia's visiting police chief
Tuesday over allegations of rights abuses and corruption by his
forces after human rights groups protested the US decision to
allow him into the country, the State Department said.


Hok Lundy, Cambodia's national police chief, met here Tuesday
with the State Department's top Asia official, Assistant
Secretary of State Chris Hill, top anti-narcotics diplomat Anne
Patterson and an official from the bureau in charge of human
rights, democracy and labor, the department said.


The trio "urged Lundy and the Cambodian police to strengthen
significantly their efforts to combat trafficking in persons,
which remains a serious problem in Cambodia," it said in a
statement.


"They also urged that Cambodia make much greater efforts to
prosecute and convict public officials, including police
officers, who are involved in trafficking, and that Commissioner
General Lundy make the police more responsive to trafficking
issues," it said.


The State Department refused a visa to Hok Lundy in 2006 due to
allegations he was involved in trafficking in prostitutes.


But it granted him permission to visit Washington this week for
counter- terrorism talks with officials of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, which has praised the Cambodian officer in the
past for his help in the government's so- called "war on
terrorism".


The decision to grant the visa drew angry protests from human
rights activists who accuse Hok Lundy of involvement in multiple
crimes, including a 1997 grenade attack against anti-government
demonstrators that killed at least 19 people and wounded more
than 120 others, including a US national.


The FBI classified the attack as an act of terrorism.


Hok Lundy has also been accused of involvement in other
politically motivated killings and drug trafficking.


While acknowledging the seriousness of the charges against Hok
Lundy, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack last week said
there were "compelling reasons" to grant him a visa for this
week's meetings at the FBI. He did not elaborate.


In its statement Tuesday, the department said there had been
improved bilateral cooperation with Cambodia in counterterrorism
and counternarcotics efforts.


But it said the US officials pressed Hok Lundy to improve on
Cambodia's "poor human rights record" and problems of corruption
which were highlighted in the State Department's 2006 Human
Rights Report.


Before leaving Cambodia, Hok Lundy said the allegations against
him were cooked up by his political opponents.


"The report is not true ... they want to attack me because I am
in the government," he told local media, adding that the FBI's
invitation was a sign of the US government's confidence in his
work.


"The US government thinks that I am a good law enforcement
leader," he said.

