

Wayne Rooney brilliantly trumped AC Milan's Brazilian star Kaka
to fire Manchester United to an exhilarating 3-2 victory in the
first leg of their Champions League semi-final here on Tuesday.


Just as it seemed that Kaka's first-half double would be enough
to earn Milan a draw that would have left them as favourites to
advance to their third final in five years, Rooney raced on to a
through ball from Ryan Giggs and hammered a low drive into the
net for his own second of a memorable evening.


Having claimed an early lead through Cristiano Ronaldo, United's
depleted defensive resources were exposed by Kaka's opportunistic
brilliance, who twice capitalised on poor marking to claim 22nd
and 37th minute goals for the visitors.


But Rooney levelled with half an hour to play and United's
pressure was finally rewarded in the first minute of added-on
time.


Given Milan's record at closing out tight ties in front of their
own supporters, Carlo Ancelotti's side will remain confident of
turning things around. But on this evidence it will be a close-
run - and entertaining - affair in the San Siro next Wednesday.


The boisterous contingent of visiting supporters had spent most
of the pre-match warm-up noisily celebrating confirmation that
their side's first-choice goalkeeper, Dida, was back in action
following a shoulder injury.


They could scarcely have anticipated that the Brazilian's first
involvement in the match would see him help to hand United the
lead from their first corner.


Ryan Giggs's inswinging delivery was met by Ronaldo with a header
that cannoned into Dida's chest before spinning towards the top
corner of the net.


The goalkeeper might still have been able to clear the danger but
in his haste to claw the ball away succeeded only in deflecting
it into his own net.


The Brazilian made partial amends in the 14th minute, diving to
his left to keep out a Michael Carrick volley from a Giggs
cutback.


The growing confidence of the home side at that stage had been
reflected in Darren Fletcher's outside-of-the-boot pass that had
started that move.


But the optimistic mood of the Old Trafford crowd was soon to be
punctured by the two sublime touches from the feet of Kaka which
delivered Milan's equaliser.


The first allowed him to gather Clarence Seedorf's diagonal pass
into the box as well as carrying him past the three United
defenders surrounding him to the corner of the six-yard box. The
second swept the ball beyond Edwin van der Sar's left hand and
into the far corner of the net.


Nobody on the United side could rival the scalpel-sharp cutting
edge of Kaka. Eight minutes from half-time, the Brazilian muscled
Fletcher off the ball on the left of the box and turned inside,
generating a panic in United's makeshift defence which resulted
in Gabriel Heinze and Patrice Evra running into each other,
leaving Kaka with the simple task of side-footing the ball past
van der Sar.


Milan's playmaker might have completed a first-half hat-trick a
minute later with a long-range effort that was bound for the
bottom corner before van der Sar's left glove intervened.


Milan's prospects of holding on to their lead were not helped
when their captain, Paolo Maldini, failed to reappear for the
second half, nor by the sight of Gennaro Gattuso limping off ten
minutes after the restart.


United should have been level by that stage, Carrick inexplicably
failing to hit the target after another Giggs corner found him
unmarked beyond the back post.


An equaliser did finally materialise just before the hour mark,
Fletcher and Carrick combining on the edge of the box to tee-up
Scholes, who might have shot but instead flipped the ball onto
the chest of Rooney, who pulled it down and tucked the ball past
Dida on the six-yard line.


Four minutes later, the Brazilian threw himself to his right to
deny Fletcher. Another stop from Fletcher and a fingertips effort
to deny Ronaldo were to follow before Rooney finally found a way
past the giant Brazilian.

