

A former Apple executive who settled charges linked to stock-
options fraud said Tuesday he warned chief executive Steve Jobs
about potential accounting problems related to the executive
awards.


The claims about Jobs' knowledge of the scheme came as Apple's
former top lawyer and former head financial officer were charged
in a civil suit by US federal regulators with participating in
fraud related to multi-million dollar Apple stock option awards.


Cupertino, California-based Apple declined to comment on claims
that the company's iconic leader knew about the stock option
awards in question and stressed that Jobs was not named in the
government suit filed Tuesday.


"The Securities and Exchange Commission did not file any charges
against Apple or any of its current employees," Apple spokesman
Steve Dowling told AFP.


Dowling also pointed out an SEC statement in which the regulatory
watchdog said it would not be bringing charges against Apple due
to its "swift, extensive and extraordinary" cooperation with the
stock option backdating probe.


The civil suit filed by the SEC claims ex Apple lawyer Nancy
Heinen, 50, and former Apple chief financial officer Fred
Anderson, 62, participated in a scheme to backdate two large
stock option grants to top Apple management, including Jobs.


Heinen altered company records in a bid to hide her wrongdoing
and Anderson should have noticed what was going on and disclosed
it in Apple's financial reports, the SEC charges.


"Heinen and Anderson, among other things, violated the anti-fraud
provisions of federal securities laws, made or caused to be made
materially false statements to Apple's auditors, falsified books
and records, and caused Apple to falsely report financial
results," according to a complaint filed in federal court in the
Silicon Valley city of San Jose, California.


Heinen and Anderson each reaped millions of dollars from
backdated options, which served as incentives to Jobs and Apple's
"executive team," court documents charged.


Anderson has agreed to a settlement with the SEC that includes a
payment of 3.5 million dollars.


Heinen's attorney, Miles Ehrlich, denied in a statement sent to
AFP that his client had backdated stock options or acted
improperly.


"Every action Nancy took was fully understood and authorized by
Apple's board of directors," Ehrlich said, adding that her
"integrity is unimpeachable."


Separately, an attorney for Anderson, Jerome Roth, said the
former Apple CFO was pleased to put the matter behind him.


Roth also said that Anderson was told by Apple CEO Jobs in
January 2001 that the firm's board of directors backed one of the
option grants.


Anderson's lawyer said the executive had "cautioned Mr. Jobs that
the Executive Team grant would have to be priced based on the
date of the actual Board agreement or there could be an
accounting charge," the statement said.


The SEC said Heinen's actions led Apple, known for its
fashionable computers and popular iPod digital music players, to
misreport its expenses by nearly 40 million dollars.


The practice of awarding special stock options to top executives
is common at many American companies, but it is improper to alter
the dates on which the options were awarded without informing the
SEC and investors.


Tweaking the date of when an option was awarded can in theory
enrich the holder of the option if the award is "backdated" to a
time when a company's share price was lower.


"When corporate officers enrich themselves at the expense of a
company's shareholders, the Commission will hold the responsible
individuals accountable," SEC enforcement chief Linda Chatman
said in a statement.


The SEC charges follow a high level SEC probe into Apple's stock
option practices. Prosecutors are seeking financial penalties
against Heinen and want to stop her serving again as an officer
or director of a public company.


Officials said the SEC would not be bringing any charges against
Apple due to its "extensive" cooperation with the government's
probe.

