

Ivan Basso's hopes of defending his Tour of Italy crown were
thrown into doubt on Tuesday after he was asked to reappear
before the Italian Olympic Committee's (CONI) anti-doping
prosecutor on May 2.


Prosecutor Ettore Torri and his assistant Franco Cosenza have
called the 29 -year-old Italian cyclist to appear at their
offices in relation to what they describe as a doping violation
regarding "the use or intent to use a banned substance or
method".


Basso was kicked off the Tour de France last year after being
implicated in the Spanish Operation Puerto scandal. Basso and
Germany's Jan Ullrich were among dozens of cyclists caught up in
the furore, which uncovered an alleged blood doping network run
by Spanish doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


The scandal cost Basso his job with Team CSC, although he later
joined Discovery Channel, the former team of seven-time Tour de
France champion Lance Armstrong.


Basso was initially acquitted by CONI of any involvement in
Operation Puerto last October due to what they said was
insufficient evidence, but it now seems Italy's governing body
for sport may have discovered new information.


Last year's Tour de France also ended in controversy when
American winner Floyd Landis tested positive for testosterone on
stage 17.


Although Spanish legal authorities said most of those implicated
in Operation Puerto have no case to answer, the International
Cycling Union (UCI) has indicated that their investigation is far
from over.


The UCI's bid to get to the bottom of the affair was boosted
recently when a DNA test matched blood found in Fuentes' Madrid
laboratory with Ullrich, who has since retired from the sport but
continues to protest his innocence.


The latest development has forced Basso to withdraw from the
Fleche Wallone - the first of two Belgian Ardennes classics which
was due to start on Wednesday - while his place at this year's
Tour of Italy is far from certain.


"It's a complicated situation and his participation in the Giro
is now difficult," said Angelo Zomegnan, the general manager of
the Tour of Italy.


"I hope that we can get to the bottom of this as soon as possible
as cycling can do without this kind of tension."

