

French President Jacques Chirac, who leaves office next month, is
to move from the Elysee palace to a chic apartment on the
capital's Left Bank, a French newspaper reported Tuesday.


The apartment is being lent to the Chiracs by the family of the
former Lebanese president Rafic Hariri, who was assassinated in
Beirut in February 2005. Chirac was a close personal friend of
Hariri.


Bernadette Chirac is already overseeing the moving of their
furniture and possessions to the 180 square-metre (1,900 square-
feet) apartment, which has a view across the River Seine to the
Louvre museum, said the daily Le Parisien.


The building lies not far from the historic Ecole des Beaux Arts
(Fine Arts School) in a neighbourhood known for up-market antique
dealers and art galleries. However it is north-facing and fronts
onto the Quai Voltaire, which is a major traffic artery.


According to Le Parisien, several photographers stationed outside
the apartment were told to leave by police Monday after a
complaint from Bernadette Chirac.


A member of the Chirac entourage said that because their various
commitments the couple had not yet had time to find a place of
their own, but stressed that their final home would not be paid
for by the state.


The move is a major event for Chirac, 74, who has hardly lived in
his own home for more than 30 years.


In 1974 he was elected prime minister for the first time and
moved into the official residence at the Hotel Matignon. Later he
had a suite of apartments at the Hotel de Ville when he was Paris
mayor for 18 years, and in 1995 he moved as president to the
Elysee.


He is to retire after the run-off election on May 6, which is
being contested by right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist
Segolene Royal.


In addition to the Quai Voltaire apartment, he will have access
-- as a former president -- to a suite of offices at the nearby
National Assembly. He will also have his own office at a
foundation for ecology and cultural dialogue that is being set up
in his name later this year, the paper said.


Meanwhile France's Official Gazette published details of Chirac's
personal estate -- in accordance with a 1962 law governing the
conduct of presidents when they leave office.


The couple's chateau in the Correze department of southwest
France was valued at 500,000 euros (680,000 dollars), and a
country cottage in the same region was put at 60,000 euros. A
Paris apartment which they owned in 1995 has been made over to
their daughter Claude.


The Chiracs declared personal belongings and artworks worth
580,000 euros and 74,000 euros in the bank. They also said they
possess a 1984 Peugeot 205.

