

Afghanistan's leading human rights group condemned as "shocking"
Tuesday a video that reportedly shows a young boy hacking off the
head of a man accused of being a US spy.


Censored excerpts of the video, apparently made in Pakistan, are
on the Internet and Afghan television stations showed certain
portions late Monday.


The boy, who looks to be barely into his teens, slits the throat
of an older bearded man as masked onlookers shout "God is great."


"It is shocking," said Ahmad Fahim Hakim, from the Afghanistan
Independent Human Rights Commission.


"It is of high concern and we condemn this sort of activity by
Taliban and those who are intentionally abusing children and
forcing them into this kind of brutal and violent behaviour," the
commissioner told AFP.


The United Nation's children's organisation UNICEF said the use
of a child in such an act was a war crime.


"The act was a terrible example of how children can be used by
adults to commit heinous crimes in times of conflict," it said in
a statement Monday.


The Taliban are waging a vicious campaign in which they have
beheaded several people accused of spying for the foreign forces
who arrived in Afghanistan in 2001 to topple the Taliban
government for sheltering Al-Qaeda.


During the extremists' five-year hold on power they carried out
several public executions, such as stoning for adultery. In one
case they had a woman slit the throat of a man in revenge for a
murder, Hakim said.


The apparently unprecedented use of a child was an attempt to
spread the Taliban's culture of violence and create a new
generation of fighters, he said.


It also seemed intended to galvanise support for a "very
prolonged war" and to entrench fear among people, the
commissioner said.


UNICEF said it was "not uncommon to see children forced to commit
atrocities, even against their own families."


"These acts cut off all ties between these children and their
original communities and strengthens their dependency on the
armed group that has recruited them," it said.

