

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will press Russia on its
opposition to quasi independence to Serbia's Kosovo province,
when she visits Moscow next month, an official said Tuesday.


But, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack downplayed the
Kremlin's threat to veto the independence vote should it come up
in the United Nations Security Council.


McCormack said it was well known that the Russian government has
"some real reservations" about Ahtisaari's plan for supervised
independence for Kosovo.


But he asserted taht Titov had not actually threatened a Russian
veto of the scheme and said the United States and other Security
Council powers were striving to take Moscow's concerns into
account.


As part of the initiative, Rice will have "extended discussions"
on the issue with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov during a
visit to the Russian capital in mid-May, he said.


Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Titov said the plan
authored by UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari was unacceptable
because of Serbian opposition and that without revisions the
proposal "will not pass at the UN Security Council" -- where
Moscow holds veto power.


"The threat of a veto should push the two sides into finding
mutually acceptable compromises," ITAR-TASS news agency reported
him as saying.


Rice will travel to Moscow during a tour which will also take her
to the Middle East for talks with Israeli and Palestinian
leaders, he said, but no specific dates for the tour have been
set.


The secretary will also see Lavrov Thursday in Oslo on the
sidelines of a foreign ministers' meeting of the NATO-Russia
Council, though it is unlikely they will have time for detailed
bilateral talks then, he said.


"We as well as others in the Security Council are working to try
and take into account their concerns," McCormack said.


The US official said part of this effort involved the new US
ambassador to the United Nations, Zalmay Khalilzad, and his
fellow Security Council envoys taking part in a fact-finding
mission to Kosovo and Serbia this week at Russia's request.


Serbia staunchly opposes independence for Kosovo, offering
instead autonomy for the region and its predominantly ethnic
Albanian population.


The US has strongly backed the Ahtisaari plan and McCormack
warned Tuesday that delaying a resolution to the issue of
Kosovo's status could lead to instability.


"The current situation is untenable and it needs to come to some
resolution," he said.


"We are working to try and accommodate the concerns of the
Russians and the Serbian government as well, but it's time to try
to craft a solution that will over time be durable," he said.

