

Russia said Tuesday it would veto UN Security Council approval of
a plan under consideration for putting the Serbian province of
Kosovo on the path to independence, Russian news agencies
reported.


Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Titov said a plan authored by UN
special envoy Martti Ahtisaari to grant the province supervised
independence was unacceptable because of Serbian government
opposition.


"The solution based on the recommendation by Ahtisaari will not
pass at the UN Security Council," Titov was quoted as saying by
the Interfax news agency.


"The threat of a veto should push the two sides into finding
mutually acceptable compromises," ITAR-TASS news agency reported
him as saying.


Titov also accused ethnic-Albanians in Kosovo of "blackmailing"
the international community by warning of the threat of a
conflict.


"Nothing is preventing the Kosovo Albanians from sorting out
their lives," he added.


The comments drew a sharp response from Kosovo's ethnic Albanian
prime minister Agim Ceku.


"It is known that this country (Russia) has a different position
towards the solution of the status of Kosovo and I have asked for
an explanation from the Russian office in Pristina," said Ceku in
Pristina.


Russian moves to veto the independence plan would go against the
will of the rest of the international community, he added.


"It would be a 'no' not only to Kosovo but also to the United
States, Great Britain and the European Union," said Ceku, who
heads a provisional government under the supervision of a United
Nations mission.


Kosovo has been run by a UN mission under Resolution 1244, passed
by the Security Council in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped to
end a bloody Serbian crackdown on Kosovo's majority ethnic
Albanians.


But analysts say that Russia's traditional support for the
Serbian government puts it in a bind.


The situation in Kosovo is replicated in regions flanking Russia,
but in these cases, Russia has backed ethnic Russians trying to
break away from former Soviet republics.


Georgia, for example, has been struggling to reassert control
over the separatist enclaves of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, both
of which are backed by Moscow.


"Russia has an interest in maintaining the uncertainty, because
the problem of Kosovo is replicated in Abkhazia and South
Ossetia," said Alexei Malachenko of the Carnegie Foundation.


"If it recognises independence for Kosovo, Russia will be forced
to recognise it for these 'countries' -- and it does not want to
get mixed up with the other states over non-recognised
territories," he added.


"On top of that, as a multi-ethnic state, it must not support
separatists," said Malachenko


Timofei Bordachev, deputy editor of the Russia in World Politics
review, agreed.


"Like Europe's other multi-ethnic states such as Spain and
Romania, Russia is on its guard when it comes to the issue of
national autonomy and prefers to avoid recognising the right to
independence of ethnic groups," he said.

