

Sam Mitchell, who guided the Toronto Raptors to their first
division title, was named National Basketball Association (NBA)
Coach of the Year on Tuesday.


Mitchell defeated Jerry Sloan of the Utah Jazz by a healthy
margin in voting for the award named for legendary NBA coach Red
Auerbach.


The league was to present the award to Mitchell at the Air Canada
Centre before the third-seeded Raptors face the New Jersey Nets
in game two of a first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.


Toronto will be looking to even the series after losing game one
96-91 on Saturday afternoon.


Mitchell, who is in the last year of his three-year contract with
the Raptors, received 389 points, including 49 first-place votes
from a panel of writers and broadcasters.


The Raptors won their first Atlantic Division crown with a 47-35
record, a 20-game improvement from the previous season.


Mitchell was credited by Raptors president and general manager
Bryan Colangelo for maintaining his composure following a 2-8
start that had the media calling for his firing and with a roster
that included 10 new players, including five foreigners.


Colangelo was responsible for bringing in players such as T.J.
Ford and Anthony Parker to employ a more up-tempo style. Mitchell
made it come together quickly as the Raptors went 30-7 in games
when they scored 100 or more points.


In January, Mitchell was named the Eastern Conference Coach of
the Month after guiding the Raptors to a 10-5 mark, the first
10-win month for the franchise since January 2002. Toronto
finished January with a 23-23 record and then went 24-12 the rest
of the way.


Sloan received 301 total points, including 39 first-place votes.


He directed the Jazz to a 51-31 mark - a 10-game improvement over
last season - and the Northwest Division title.


Utah made the playoffs for the first time since the departure of
the legendary tandem of Karl Malone and John Stockton.


The NBA Coach of the Year last season, Avery Johnson of the
Dallas Mavericks, was third in the voting with 268 points and 28
first-place votes after his team finished with a league-best
67-15 record.

