

The United States is not seeking conflict with Iran and would
prefer dialogue to resolve the escalating tension over Tehran's
nuclear progamme, the new chief of US Central Command said on
Tuesday.


"I am not interested in planning to attack Iran. I am very
interested in trying to get the Iranians to come and start
engaging in a meaningful dialogue," Admiral William J. Fallon
told reporters in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).


He said Tehran should talk to the world and "particularly this
(Gulf) region about the future and the role they (Iranians) may
play, that I hope would be constructive rather than unhelpful and
destabilising."


Fallon was chosen in January to succeed retiring General John
Abizaid as head of Central Command, overseeing US forces from
North Africa to Central Asia. He took over in March.


He was responding to questions about the US military's readiness
to attack Iran without using its bases in Gulf Arab states after
repeated statements by key US allies in the region pledging not
to be part of any offensive.


The latest was Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin
Jabr al-Thani, who said earlier this month that his country would
"never be a launchpad for any harm against Iran."


Qatar, a close ally of Washington, hosts two US military bases.
As-Sayliyah, served as the coalition command and control centre
during the 2003 Iraq war and Al-Udeid airbase was used by the US
Air Force during the 2001 war on Afghanistan and in the aftermath
of the Iraq war.


The US also has two aircraft carriers in the Gulf, the highest
level US naval presence in the strategic oil shipping channel
since the invasion of Iraq in March 2003.


Western countries want Iran to suspend uranium enrichment, a
process used in the manufacture of nuclear fuel, over fears it
could be diverted to make nuclear weapons. Iran insists it is
only interested in produce nuclear energy.


Fallon held talks with Sheikh Mohammad bin Zayed al-Nahayan, the
crown prince of Abu Dhabi, one of the UAE's seven members, who is
also deputy commander in chief of the UAE armed forces.

