

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Tuesday said the
planned US missile shield could destabilise Europe and called for
a joint analysis of the "threat".


"What we see in the American offer are several aims which do not
address the principal, that is a joint analysis of the threat,"
he told reporters in Luxembourg after meetings with european
leaders in the Grand Duchy.


"One gets the impression that everything has already been decided
in Washington."


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates offered Russia cooperation on
missile defence activities Monday but was swiftly rebuffed by
Moscow.


Europe itself had not been consulted, Lavrov said a day after
talks here with European leaders including his German counterpart
Frank-Walter Steinmeier.


"We don't really see a way of joining the project, we don't see
what interest there is in that," he added.


Meanwhile in Moscow, the head of the Russian military also gave
the proposal his thumbs down.


"Robert Gates who came to Moscow yesterday (Monday) said that the
anti-missile shield in Europe was targetting neither Russia nor
any other country," General Yuri Baluyevsky, chief of staff of
the Russian military told a news conference.


"We clearly see that the US anti-missile defence shield is being
created to target Russia and we will never take part in it," he
said.


The United States insists that existing defences need to be
extended to e,p3,rema.ana.hkgd.maxprotect against attack from
"rogue states" such as Iran and North Korea and says its missile
shield plans are not directed against Russia.


Russia has adamantly opposed plans to station 10 interceptor
missiles in Poland and a targeting radar in the Czech Republic,
countries that lie close to Russian territory and were once under
Moscow's control.


Nonetheless, Gates said Monday he remained "cautiously
optimistic" after meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin in
Moscow and even held out the possibility of co-locating a radar
with the Russians.


Lavrov made his comments ahead of a meeting in Oslo Thursday of
NATO foreign ministers, including US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice, where extending the missile shield project will
be discussed.


The missile defence issue has threatened to divide Washington's
NATO allies in Europe.


Germany has said Washington must work to ease Russian concerns,
while the Czech Republic and Poland have asserted that Moscow has
no right to interfere.


Parts of the system are already set up in Britain and Greenland.

