

Nigeria's federal lawmakers Tuesday rejected a request from
President Olusegun Obasanjo to renew emergency rule in the
southern state of Ekiti, the official Nigerian news agency (NAN)
reported.


Consequently, members of the lower chamber sacked the sole
adminstrator in charge of the state since October last year and
directed the speaker of the Ekiti state House of Assembly to
immediately assume office as acting governor, NAN added.


Police said at least 20 people were killed last week in several
states of Nigeria, including Ekiti, after governorship elections
on April 14 preceding presidential and parliamentary polls on
April 21.


Officials have also reported dozens of houses and vehicles
destroyed in Ekiti after the results of the polls were announced.


Obasanjo last week extended the six-month state of emergency
imposed on the state last October at the peak of a political
crisis during which the governor, Ayo Fayose was impeached.


"It is unfortunate that we lacked the required number to approve
the request, as we have only 97 members on our attendance
register," said Aminu Masari, speaker of the more than 500-member
House of Representatives. "Therefore the request is dead on
arrival."


Masari was also quoted as saying that "the implication is that
the speaker of the State House of Assembly, who was earlier sworn
in as acting governor, will assume the governorship of the
state".


According to the constitution, a state of emergency ceases to
have effect if there is no resolution supported by a two-thirds
majority of each chamber of the National Assembly.


When he renewed the state of emegency from April 18 to May 29,
the day he completes his four-year mandate, Obasanjo said in a
nationwide television broadcast that the situation in Ekiti
"could snowball into a complete state of anarchy and lawlessness
that could spread to neighbouring states."


Obasanjo at the time had also renewed the mandate of the
emergency rule administrator of Ekiti, Adetunji Olurin, a retired
general, till May 29.


Obasanjo last October 18 slapped a six-month state of emergency
on Ekiti following bloody political unrest which culminated in
the impeachment of its governor, Ayo Fayose, by the state
parliament. He then appointed Olurin as administrator for six
months.


Authorities have imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in at least six
states after Saturday's poll sparked violence that left at least
21 dead.

