

World oil prices fell heavily on Tuesday, as traders consolidated
despite market nerves over lost production in Nigeria, the
world's sixth biggest exporter of crude.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, closed down 1.31 dollars at 64.58 dollars per
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
settled down 99 cents at 67.16 dollars per barrel.


Prices unwound "following a large selling order. It's all very
sudden," said a broker at Bache Financial in London. "There seems
to be no reason for this price move."


Prices had risen earlier on Tuesday owing to concerns about
Nigerian supplies.


Ruling party candidate Umaru Yar'Adua won Nigeria's presidential
election on Monday but foreign observers questioned the
credibility of a vote that, along with state polls the week
before, claimed at least 200 lives.


Opposition parties rejected the result, raising the political
risk level in a major oil producer and Africa's most populous
nation.


Nigeria's current oil production is down an estimated 25 percent
owing to violence in the oil-rich Niger Delta.


"There's always going to be a risk associated with Delta
production, although Shell's talking about going back and
potentially restarting production," Global Insight analyst Simon
Wardell said.


"I think that at any time you could start to see an upsurge in
violence and that could put plans to restart oil-on-hold,
potentially even hit the oil which is currently being produced.


"It lowers risk if you have people accepting the results and
trying to work together, but I'm not sure it's in the immediate
future," Wardell added.


Yar'Adua faced growing discontent on Tuesday after being declared
the winner of a disputed poll that even the outgoing head of
state admitted was far from perfect.


"The situation in the oil market is still uncertain because of
the election in Nigeria and production in Nigeria has been
missing," said Tetsu Emori, chief commodities strategist at
Mitsui Bussan Futures in Tokyo.


Emori said nobody really knows the true nature of outages in the
Delta region and the market fears that even more production could
be disrupted.


"That's why the market is quite nervous at the moment," he said.


The market is also concerned about high US gasoline (petrol)
demand and insufficient production by the Organisation of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Emori said.


London-based energy analysts, The Centre for Global Energy
Studies (CGES), on Monday said reduced OPEC production risks
another damaging price spike this year.


Emori said OPEC must make up the production shortfall from
Nigeria by increasing output to avoid prices rising to around 70
dollars.


He said the weekly US Department of Energy inventory report to be
released on Wednesday is expected to confirm concerns over US
gasoline demand.


"Gasoline demand in the US is at a much higher level than last
year," Emori said.

