

Italian cycling star Ivan Basso has been suspended by his team,
Discovery Channel, as Italian authorities investigate his role in
the 'Operation Puerto' doping affair in Spain.


Basso, who was suspended by his former team CSC due to his
alleged role in the affair prior to last year's Tour de France,
has the full support of Discovery but his future in the sport
remains in doubt.


The Italian Olympic Committee's (CONI) asked Basso to appear
before an anti- doping prosecutor on May 2, where he may be asked
to provide a DNA sample to prove his innocence.


Basso was kicked off the Tour by CSC in 2006 after it was
revealed that he was among dozens of cyclists to have links with
Spanish doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


Police uncovered bags of blood and doping products on a raid on
Fuentes' laboratory in Madrid, along with codenames of cyclists
and documents which suggested the doctor had been paid to
manipulate and store blood.


The Italian authorities, including CONI, initially cleared Basso
of any wrongdoing last autumn claiming there was not enough
evidence to sanction the reigning Tour of Italy champion.


However their decision to act in the wake of a series of damaging
revelations to have appeared in the Spanish press appears to
leave Basso's future in limbo.


A statement by Discovery Channel's management company, Tailwind
Sports, said: "Team management at Tailwind Sports has requested
that Italian rider Ivan Basso not compete pending further
information in a new investigation coming out of Italy.


"The Italian Cycling Federation and Italian Olympic Committee
conducted a full review last fall of Basso's implication in the
'Operacion Puerto' affair, occurring prior to the start of the
2006 Tour de France, and found no evidence of any wrongdoing.


"Additionally, the Spanish Cycling Federation closed all
disciplinary investigations, announcing that all riders
implicated were free to compete. Basso was subsequently signed to
the Discovery Channel squad after these findings were announced.


"Consistent with the team's stated position on this issue, upon
notification of the new investigation opened in Italy, General
Manager Bill Stapleton and Sports Director Johan Bruyneel will
not allow Basso to race pending further information.


"We continue to stand behind Ivan and intend to cooperate with
all parties involved until there is closure. It is unfortunate
that this is now occurring, however, I have spoke to Ivan and
although frustrated he agrees and understands with the decision
we have taken."

