

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will return to the Middle
East next month for a new round of peacemaking talks with Israeli
and Palestinian leaders, her spokesman said Tuesday.


Rice will meet with Israeli and Palestinian officials in mid-May
"to see if we can find a way forward to try to bring peace to
that region," Sean McCormack said.


She will also travel to Moscow on the same trip for talks with
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on the nuclear standoff with Iran
and other issues, he said. McCormack did not provide further
details.


Rice was last in the Middle East in late March for talks with
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas, the US-backed head of the moderate Fatah party.


Rice last year launched an ambitious initiative to revive
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations on a permanent peace accord and
the creation of a Palestinian state -- talks that had been on
hold since the outbreak of a Palestinian rebellion in 2001.


But her effort was upended when Abbas, leader of the secular
Fatah party, agreed in March to join a national unity government
with the radical Islamic movement Hamas, which the US and Israel
consider a terrorist group.


On her last trip, Rice convinced Olmert to meet fortnightly with
Abbas despite the unity government deal, which infuriated the
Israelis.


But the summits were to focus on confidence-building steps
concerning security and economic matters rather than on core
"final status" issues about Palestinian statehood.


Rice pledged at the same time to return regularly to the region
for talks with both sides aimed at keeping the diplomacy moving.


McCormack on Tuesday also denied suggestions that the US and
other members of the so-called Quartet of Mideast peace mediators
would meet next week in Egypt on the sidelines of a conference on
Iraq's security.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said earlier
Tuesday that the Quartet grouping the European Union, United
Nations, United States and Russia would meet "at the beginning of
May in Egypt."


Steinmeier did not mention specific dates, but he appeared to be
referring to a planned meeting of international leaders at the
Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh May 3-4 for a security
conference on Iraq.


Rice has said she will attend that meeting, and her counterparts
from the other Quartet members are also expected to participate.


But McCormack insisted a formal Quartet meeting was not on the
agenda.


"There's no Quartet meeting that's planned for that trip," he
said.


The Quartet announced at its last meeting in Berlin in February
that it would gather next somewhere in the Middle East, but
McCormack said no date or a venue for that meeting had been
decided.

