

US private equity group KKR was poised to seize control of
British pharmacy giant Alliance Boots on Tuesday with a 16.2
-billion-euro bid (22.0 billion dollars) that would set new
records for private equity takeovers in Europe.


Kohlberg Kravis Roberts emerged as winner on Tuesday after
battling against a rival consortium led by British private equity
group Terra Firma to buy Alliance Boots, Europe's biggest
pharmacy chain.


KKR raised its cash offer by 4.5 percent to 11.0 billion pounds,
which the board of Alliance Boots then recommended to
shareholders and led Terra Firma to drop out.


Terra Firma, along with consortium partners medical charity
Wellcome Trust and British bank HBOS, said it had "decided to
withdraw its potential interest in acquiring Alliance Boots."


A takeover by KKR, providing it is accepted by Alliance Boots
shareholders, would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm.


It would also make Alliance Boots the first company to fall into
private hands while being listed on London's prestigious FTSE 100
share index.


Alliance Boots was created last year by the British merger of
pharmacy chain Alliance UniChem and health and beauty retailer
Boots.


The cross-Atlantic bidding war for the group erupted on Friday,
as the rival private equity groups each launched cash bids
approaching 11.0 billion pounds.


Alliance Boots on Friday accepted KKR's bid of 10.6 billion
pounds, but then received a higher bid from Terra Firma worth
10.78 billion pounds.


KKR had had two previous bids for Alliance Boots, worth 1,040 and
1,000 pence per share, turned down by Alliance Boots management
in March.


Since it was founded almost 31 years ago, KKR has completed about
150 transactions with a total value of over 274 billion dollars.


Earlier this year it led a consortium that agreed to buy Texas
utility TXU for a massive 45 billion dollars.


The price of shares in Alliance Boots fell on Tuesday on news
that the bidding war had ended.


In afternoon trade, Alliance Boots fell 0.44 percent to 1,121.50
pence on London's FTSE 100 index. KKR's new offer was priced at
1,139 pence per Alliance Boots share.


Earlier Tuesday, KKR's takeover vehicle, AB Acquisitions, said
that it owned 25.0 percent of Alliance Boots after purchasing
49.7 million additional shares in the group.


In its withdrawal statement Tuesday, the British consortium said
it was "naturally disappointed" by the outcome.


"However, we are pleased that the shareholders of Alliance Boots
have received a significantly higher price due to our interests,
and we wish the company and all its stakeholders well under new
ownership," it added.


The private equity sector consists mainly of investment funds or
banks that buy stakes in non-listed companies that are then
generally broken up and sold for a profit.


Private equity groups also target listed companies that are then
withdrawn from the stock market.


Some leading finance officials have warned of the risk associated
with private equity groups that borrow huge amounts of money
through the company being acquired to help fund the deals.


Trade unions, meanwhile, claim that workers face increased risks
of redundancy.


Alliance Boots has 2,600 healthcare outlets, which include 1,500
community pharmacies. The combined group has more than 100,000
employees.


Internationally, Alliance Boots operates around 550 pharmacies in
Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Switzerland and
Thailand.


Alliance Boots is currently undergoing a three-year restructuring
programme costing 250 million pounds that will also result in
2,250 jobs being axed.


KKR has been joined in its bid by the executive deputy chairman
of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina.

