

The United States voiced increasing skepticism Tuesday over
Iranian denials that a former FBI agent who disappeared during a
visit to Iran last month is being held by authorities there.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack indicated Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice could raise the issue of Robert Levinson
with Iranian officials if they attend an international conference
on Iraq next week.


Levinson has not been seen since travelling to the Iranian resort
island of Kish on private business in early March and McCormack
said claims by Iran that it had no information on his whereabouts
were not credible.


"Given the nature of the Iranian security apparatus, we find it
hard to believe that -- even though you don't need a visa to
arrive on Kish Island -- that they don't in some way monitor the
comings and goings of individuals on Kish Island, including
foreign nationals," he said.


The US has sent five requests for information about Levinson to
Iran via Swiss intermediaries and this week asked two unnamed
European governments and a third country for help in tracking him
down, McCormack said.


The US and Iran have not had direct relations since 1980.


McCormack said the latest note sent to Tehran over the weekend
included references to press reports that Levinson had been taken
into custody by Iranian security agents, possibly as a hostage to
exchange for five Iranians detained by US forces in Iraq.


The US official stopped short of confirming the reports, but
said, "I can't rule out for you that he is, in fact, being held
by the Iranian government."


"We'd like to get to the bottom of it."


McCormack would also not rule out Rice raising the Levinson case
personally with her Iranian counterpart if he accepts an
invitation to attend the Iraq security conference in the Egyptian
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh May 3-4.


"This could be something that would merit a US representative
bringing up with the Iranian government should the opportunity
present itself," he said.


"But, again, I'm not going to state that that would in fact be
the case."


The administration of President George W. Bush long refused
direct dealings with Iran, which it accuses of aiding terrorists
in Iraq and around the Middle East and of trying to develop
nuclear weapons.


But in a softening of that stance, Rice has authorized some
contacts with Iranians to discuss efforts to stabilize Iran and
has not ruled out speaking directly with the Iranians on the
issue if they attend next week's meeting.

