

Turkey's main opposition party said Tuesday it would boycott the
presidential vote in parliament, underscoring tensions between
the country's secularist camp and the Islamist-rooted ruling
party.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan earlier named Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul as the candidate of the Justice and
Development Party (AKP), which is almost certain to elect him as
president thanks to a comfortable majority in parliament.


The main opposition, staunchly secularist Republican People's
Party (CHP) "will not participate in the vote because the
candidate was not determined through reconciliation," CHP deputy
chairman Mustafa Ozyurek told reporters.


He was speaking after Gul met CHP chairman Deniz Baykal in a bid
to soften his party's stance.


Gul may not get the post in the first two rounds of voting, when
a two-thirds majority of 367 is required. The AKP has 353 seats.


But he is a certainty for the third or fourth round, when a
simple majority of 276 suffices.


Ozyurek said the CHP is also determined to resort to legal means
to block the vote altogether.


The party argues that at least 367 legislators, or the number of
votes the winner is required to garner, should be present in the
assembly at the first round in order for voting to begin.


The arguement has been rejected by the AKP as well as many
jurists, who say that the usual quorum for parliamentary
sessions, 184, will suffice.


But Ozyurek insisted that the CHP would ask the Constitutional
Court to cancel the vote if at least 367 legislators do not turn
up at the first round, scheduled for Friday.


The CHP, which has 152 seats, hopes that their position will
receive support from several small opposition parties.


Critics see the CHP threat as one last desperate plan to prevent
the AKP from electing its candidate, arguing that the party,
which has its roots in a now- banned Islamist party, is a threat
to the country's secular system.


The second round in the election is scheduled for for May 2, the
third for May 9 and the fourth for May 15.

