

A Canadian man who was arrested at age 15 in Afghanistan in 2002
and held at the Guantanamo "war on terror" prison has been
charged with murder and providing material support for terrorism,
the Pentagon said Tuesday.


Omar Khadr, the only Canadian detainee held at the US naval base
in eastern Cuba, will appear at a hearing within 30 days to enter
a plea on the charges, which also include conspiracy and spying,
the Pentagon said in a statement.


The indictment says prosecutors will not seek the death penalty
in the trial, which should be held in the next four months before
a special military tribunal in Guantanamo Bay.


Prosecutors say Khadr, 20, is the son of an Al-Qaeda official who
is now dead. Born in Canada, he joined his father in Afghanistan
where he underwent military training, they sayd. He was arrested
in July 2002.


Khadr is considered innocent of any criminal charges unless he is
proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt at a military commission,
according to the US defense department.


The first inmate to face trial at Guantanamo, Australian David
Hicks, pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training camps and
volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime during the
US-led invasion of Afghanistan. Hicks received a nine-month
sentence during his trial in March.


Earlier this month, Khadr and another inmate at the US detention
facility in Guantanamo who is about to face military trial urged
the Supreme Court to rule on their legal rights before
proceedings begin.


The US high court ruled this month that dozens of Guantanamo Bay
inmates had no right to challenge their detention in federal
court and that they had not exhausted all other legal options.


But Yemeni Salim Ahmed Hamdan and Khadr said they have no time to
pursue other legal avenues to see if they could be protected
under the US constitution because their day in military court is
fast approaching.


"The time to hear this particular case is now," the petitioners'
brief said.


"Petitioners are irreparably harmed by having to defend
themselves in trials where they are kept ignorant as to whether
or not the Constitution protects them and governs the procedures
by which their prosecutions are allowed to proceed."


Both men are among Guantanamo prisoners the US government intends
to prosecute this summer in special military courts, known as
military commissions.


Concerned the courts will not respect defendants' rights, the
plaintiffs are seeking to be able to contest that issue before
they go to trial.


"The recent plea of David Hicks has cast further doubt on the
ability of these commissions to prosecute cases fairly," the
statement said.


"If they (the trials) go forward within that legal vacuum, the
process will ultimately cast doubt on this nation's judicial
system and our hallowed traditions of fairness in the eyes of the
world."


The trials take place according to a special system that allows
indirect witness testimony and statements extracted under duress.


The Supreme Court's decision not to hear the case left intact a
ruling by the federal appeals court that the inmates had no
constitutional right to challenge their detention before federal
courts because they were not US citizens or on US soil.

