

Dunfermline will face Celtic in the Scottish Cup Final after a
late Jim McIntyre penalty gave them a 1-0 win over Hibernian at
Hampden on Tuesday.


In addition to winning through to the final, Stephen Kenny's
relegation- threatened side will also now qualify for next
season's UEFA Cup, courtesy of Celtic having booked their place
in the Champions League.


There was only heartache for Hibs who have now lost in three
consecutive Scottish Cup semi-finals against Dundee United,
Hearts and now Dunfermline.


Hibs had created the best chances throughout the match, although
Dunfermline were never outplayed and always looked dangerous.


With only 20 seconds on the clock the Easter Road side's Moroccan
Abdessalam Benjelloun had burst through the middle to fire a low
shot from 25 yards which Dunfermline's Dutch goalkeeper Dorus De
Vries stopper comfortably.


In the 17th minute the Fife team came desperately close to taking
the lead.


McIntyre met Jim O'Brien's corner with a downward headed from six
yards which was palmed back out by Hibs goalkeeper Andrew McNeil.


Phil McGuire was first to react to the loose ball and bundled it
past McNeil only for Hibs midfielder Lewis Stevenson to head off
the line.


In the 22nd minute on-loan Liverpool winger Adam Hammill got on
the end of Jamie McCunnie's lob into the penalty area to smash a
first-time scissor-kick from 16-yards which required McNeil to
save low to his right.


The game was flowing end-to-end and it was Dunfermline's captain
Greg Shields who had to clear off the line after Scott Brown had
burst into the penalty area and chipped the ball past De Vries
towards goal.


De Vries then had to make a finger tip save in the 33rd minute to
push Stevenson's fine dipping shot from 30-yards over his
crossbar.


The game remained evenly balanced after the break, although there
were fewer goalscoring opportunities.


Hibs captain Rob Jones headed David Murphy's corner just wide in
the 58th minute - the first real effort on goal of the half.


As the game moved into the final 10 minutes Hibs looked the more
likely to break the deadlock, with Dunfermline again required to
clear off their line in the 82nd minute.


Just as it looked as if Dunfermline would be happy to take the
game into extra time they scored a sensational 86th minute winner
from the penalty spot.


Hammill showed tremendous skill to turn away from Steven Fletcher
and drive into the penalty area.


Hibs centre-half Hogg tried to steal the ball from his feet with
a rash sliding challenge which only succeeded in pulling the
winger down and referee Craig Thomson pointed to the penalty
spot.


McIntyre stepped up and showed tremendous composure to send a
delicate chip into the centre of the net as McNeil dived to his
right.


The Easter Road side piled men forward in the closing minutes to
try and salvage the game but it was Dunfermline who nearly scored
again when substitute Mark Burchill broke through on goal and
smashed a left-foot shot towards goal which required McNeil to
block with his legs.

