

US President George W. Bush, setting the stage for a high-stakes
political confrontation, vowed Tuesday to veto a bill that ties
Iraq war funds to a non- binding withdrawal deadline of April 1,
2008.


Democrats, who took control of the US Congress in part thanks to
deep US public anger at the four-year-old conflict, expected to
send Bush the legislation this week but appeared to lack the
votes to override his veto.


"Precipitous withdrawal from Iraq is not a plan to bring peace to
the region or to make our people safer at home. Instead, it would
embolden our enemies and confirm their belief that America is
weak," said the president.


The 124.2 billion dollar bill -- compromise legislation hammered
out between House and Senate negotiators late Monday -- calls for
withdrawal of most US combat forces from Iraq beginning no later
than October 1, 2007, with a non- binding goal for completing the
pullout by April 1, 2008.


Under the bill, the pullout would begin on July 1 if the Pentagon
cannot certify Iraqi progress in disarming militias, reducing
sectarian violence and resolving political differences between
the various Iraqi factions.


With a razor-thin majority in Congress, Democrats said they were
well aware that they lack the votes to overcome Bush's threatened
veto, and already were preparing for the next round of
negotiations.


"The president has indicated he intends to veto this legislation.
I wish that that were not so," said Representative David Obey,
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee at a press
conference Monday.


"But if it is, the best thing that we can do ... is to get this
to the president as quickly as possible, so that he can take
whatever action he deems necessary so that we can again get about
the business of compromising."


Standing on the south lawn of the White House, Bush said he knew
that the US public has "serious concerns" about the war, and that
"people want our troops to come home, and so do I."


But Bush warned against letting "politics and impatience" drive
strategy and stressed: "No matter how frustrating the fight can
be, and no matter how much we wish the war was over, the security
of our country depends directly on the outcome in Iraq."


"Precipitous withdrawal from Iraq is not a plan to bring peace to
the region or to make our people safer at home. Instead, it would
embolden our enemies and confirm their belief that America is
weak," said Bush.


"It could unleash chaos in Iraq that could spread across the
entire region. It would be an invitation to the enemy to attack
America and our friends around the world.


"And ultimately, a precipitous withdrawal would increase the
probability that American troops would one day have to return to
Iraq and confront an enemy that's even more dangerous," said the
president.


Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who has charged
that "this war is lost," said late Monday that the legislation
"rejects the president's failed policies in Iraq and his open-
ended commitment to keep American troops there indefinitely and
forges a new direction for a responsible end to the war."


"The bill ensures our troops are combat-ready before they are
deployed to Iraq, provides our troops the resources and health
care they deserve in Iraq and here at home, and responsibly winds
down this war," he said.


The legislation also provides funding for troop and veteran
health care, and recovery of the hurricane-ravaged US Gulf Coast
-- which Bush has denounced almost as much as he has criticized
the tentative deadline.


"I'm disappointed that the Democratic leadership has chosen this
course," he said. "They know I'm going to veto a bill containing
these provisions, and they know that my veto will be sustained."

