

At least 65 people were killed Tuesday on the seventh day of
fierce clashes between Ethiopian troops and Islamist guerrillas
around the Somali capital, including two car bombings.


Human rights workers monitoring the death toll said at least 321
people, mostly civilians and insurgents, had been killed in the
clashes as Ethiopian forces battle Islamist gunmen in support of
the transitional goverment.


Witnesses said a suicide bomber blew up a truck in an Ethiopian
camp in Afgoye, about 30 kilometres (19 miles) southwest of the
capital, wounding at least two Somali soldiers.


A car also exploded outside a hotel housing government officials
in southern Mogadishu, killing seven civilians and wounding
several others, residents said.


No group has claimed responsibility for the car bombings but
Somali authorities have in the past blamed the Islamists for
suicide attacks.


Ethiopian tanks pounded positions in northern and southern
Mogadishu in a bid to weaken the insurgents, who are allegedly
linked to the Al-Qaeda terror network of Osama bin Laden.


"The Ethiopians have used massive power that should never be
allowed in residential areas. Their tanks have rained shells
indiscriminately on houses," said Sudan Ali Ahmed, chairman of
the Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation which monitors
casualties.


Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said his troops were
battling the "Taliban of Somalia" and claimed the campaign was a
success despite the mounting loss of civilian life.


"Our agenda now is to make sure that the Shebab (Hawiye clan
fighters) or the so-called Taliban of Somalia are isolated from
the general population. We want to break their military capacity
within Mogadishu," he said.


He said the offensive could drag on for another two weeks to
completely drive the Islamists out of Mogadishu.


An AFP reporter reported heavy shelling around the fortified
presidential palace in the battered seaside city, guarded by
Ethiopian troops and African Union peacekeepers, and in the
northern suburb of Fagah.


"The fighting is continuing," said Fagah resident Yusuf Hassan.
"We are hiding in buildings but heavy shells are destroying
everything."


Residents were still trapped in their houses without water and
food. Hospitals have been overwhelmed, with doctors appealing for
extra medical supplies.


The UN refugee agency (UNHCR) said last week that more than
321,000 people had fled the seaside capital since February 1, but
elders told AFP the figure could now be closer to 400,000 with
the exodus of thousands more over the past six days.


The UNHCR, which is supplying relief to at least 41,000 displaced
Somalis in Afoye, said many were thirsty and hungry.


"Hungry and thirsty crowds were becoming increasingly difficult
to control, making aid distribution very difficult," the agency
said in a statement, appealing for shelters, water and food to
help the displaced.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed government oust
Islamists from the country's south and central regions at the
start of the year.


But the Islamists have since launched a guerrilla campaign and
the fighting has escalated with at least 1,000 people killed in
clashes last month, the worst in the city for 15 years.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and top US diplomat for Africa
Jendaye Frazer on Monday urged an end to the violence, that
threatens to unravel regional efforts to restore a functional
government.


The fighting is the heaviest in the Somali capital since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

