

Rafa Benitez insists Jose Mourinho's claim that Chelsea are a
team on their last legs is just an attempt to transfer the
pressure onto Liverpool ahead of their Champions League semi-
final.


Liverpool manager Benitez gave a scathing reponse to Mourinho's
insistence that the Anfield club, in contrast to Chelsea, have
been able to rest key players in recent weeks.


Mourinho, who will be without injured duo Michael Ballack and
Arjen Robben, is adamant Liverpool are favourites for the first
leg at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday because the mental and
physical fatigue of Chelsea's gruelling pursuit of four trophies
is taking its' toll.


The London club have played 24 matches since the start of 2007,
while Liverpool have played only 18, with many of them relatively
low-key affairs that afforded Benitez the chance to rest players.


"Everybody knows that at this time of the season, legs and power
are absolutely crucial, Mourinho said. "Things are decided with
that and not with quality.


"In the last four months we played 24 matches and Liverpool
played only three or four real matches. There are no miracles in
football. We have to be focused and cannot lose any match. It is
a high demand mentally as well as in the legs.


"Do you think Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard have the same
conditions to compete against each other? It will not be a fair
fight.


"We have played a League Cup final, two tough matches against
Valencia and Tottenham. It is a completely different situation."


But Benitez dismissed that as mere mind games from the Portuguese
coach.


"I am learning a lot of things that I didn't know," he said.
"Everybody says we are favourites, that they are tired and we
have less important games.


"I was surprised because in the last two or three press
conferences Mourinho was always talking about the problems they
have.


"They are telling everybody 'oh we don't have this or that'. But
we have some players we cannot use as well.


"They have a lot of quality and are physically very strong. I
don't think we have any advantage."


Benitez was undoubtedly irked by Mourinho's comments, which will
hardly have increased the possibility of the rivals' relationship
improving anytime soon.


Mourinho admitted there was no chance of sharing a post-match
drink with Benitez and, while the Spaniard was happy enough to
praise his counterpart, there is clearly no love lost.


"I think each manager decides how to approach it in his own way,"
he said. "But I know the game.


"I think Mourinho is a great manager but I prefer to be focused
on my team and winning the game.


"I am thinking about my team. I don't want to play games. The key
will be Gerrard or Lampard, not either manager."

