

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene led from the front with a
maiden World Cup hundred in Tuesday's semi-final against New
Zealand here at Sabina Park.


Jayawardene's 115 not out was the centrepiece of an imposing
total of 289 for five and showed the value of a well-paced
innings after he'd taken 28 balls to score his first boundary.


Dropped on 70, in all he faced 109 balls with three sixes and 10
fours after winning the toss in what was his first hundred in 23
World Cup matches.


New Zealand faced a tough chase if they were to reach their first
World Cup final, with middle-order hitter Craig McMillan
uncertain to bat after being off the field for most of Sri
Lanka's innings with a stomach muscle injury.


Earlier, opener Upul Tharanga struck a tournament best 73 to make
sure Sri Lanka recovered well after Sanath Jayasuriya fell early
on for one.


Together with Tillakaratne Dilshan, Jayawardene put on 81 for the
fifth wicket before a rapid unbroken stand of 56 with Russel
Arnold (14 not out).


Crucially, Sri Lanka lost just one wicket to spearhead quick
Shane Bond who was returning after missing Friday's 215-run
thrashing by Australia with a stomach illness.


The fast bowler's 10 overs cost 59 runs and it was he who dropped
Jayawardene as Sri Lanka's captain led a charge that saw 102 runs
scored off the last 10 overs.


The Black Caps enjoyed an early breakthrough when new-ball bowler
James Franklin struck in what was a repeat of the April 12 Super
Eights match in Grenada, which Sri Lanka won by six wickets.


The left-armer bowled the dangerous Jayasuriya when the 1996
World Cup winner aimed legside at a straight ball leaving Sri
Lanka 13 for one.


Tharanga's flashing square cut over backward point off Franklin
brought up the fifty in 65 balls.


But Franklin ended a partnership worth 54 when Kumar Sangakkara's
checked drive lobbed gently to New Zealand captain Stephen
Fleming at mid-on.


Franklin, who looked to be limping towards the end of his spell
and who has suffered with migraine problems in the past, led New
Zealand's attack with two for 46 in nine overs.


Left-hander Tharanga, whose place had been questioned after he'd
scored 219 runs at a modest average of 24.33 in nine previous
innings this tournament, completed a 51-ball fifty with eight
fours.


And the 22-year-old subsequently struck left-arm spinner Daniel
Vettori over extra-cover for six.


At the 25-over halfway stage of their innings, Sri Lanka were
well placed for a big total at 111 for three.


But next ball they lost Tharanga, bowled around his legs,
sweeping, by Vettori for a 73 made off 74 balls with one six and
nine fours.


Jayawardene and Chamara Silva then accumulated steadily.


However, on 21, Silva was unluckily lbw to Bond, South Africa's
Rudi Koertzen raising his finger despite the batsman's inside
edge.


Jayawardene's 76-ball fifty including three fours saw the skipper
make sure he was in for the final push.


He then lofted off-spinner Jeetan Patel for four between long-on
and mid-wicket before driving pace bowling all-rounder Jacob
Oram, fit again after a heel injury, over his head for six.


Jayawardene saw a sweep off Patel dropped by Bond on the deep
backward square leg boundary, the ball bouncing out of the
fieldsman's hands before hitting the rope for a six.


He went to 97 with an audacious flicked four behind square off
Oram before completing his hundred off 104 balls, with a superb
late cut boundary against the same bowler.


And in Bond's last over, he pulled the quick for six to bring up
a fifty stand in 26 balls with Arnold.


Champions Australia play South Africa in Wednesday's second semi-
final in St Lucia ahead of Saturday's final in Barbados.

