

Dutch football legend Johan Cruyff celebrates his 60th birthday
here on Wednesday where he is revered not only as the greatest
player of all time but also as a cultural phenomenon who even has
his own language: Cruyffian.


Comments like "coincidence is logical" and "you don't get it
until you understand it" have earned the ex-player a cult status
in the Netherlands.


Cruyff, born April 25, 1947, is even the subject of articles in
the Dutch Onze Taal (Our Language) magazine.


"Cruyff the speaker slices and turns, accelerates and slows down
in his language just as easily as he used to on the field,"
linguists Guus Middag and Kees van der Zwan wrote.


The triple European Footballer of the Year (1971, 1973 and 1974),
and the European Footballer of the Century, is not just a famous
ex-player but a football oracle in his own right whose opinions
on the game are at once enormously insightful and startlingly
simple.


His analysis are often rambling stream-of-consciousness remarks
like "Italians cannot beat you but you can lose to them".


The Dutch love it.


"It had the power of paradox that comes with an air of deeper
insight. It was slightly funny as with everything that could
either be obvious or nonsense," the linguists said.


In the 1970s Cruyff symbolized the football revolution of the so-
called total football -- a fluid team where every player can play
from every position if necessary -- that the Dutch national team
and his club Ajax made famous.


He won eight Dutch league titles with Ajax Amsterdam and three
European Cups and reached the World Cup final in 1974 only to
lose to the Netherlands' arch-rival Germany.


He went on to a successful career with Barcelona where he was
revered as El Salvador (the savior).


Cruyff has always been an intelligent and strong willed player.


Even when he was not yet a coach he was always advising the other
players around him.


After his playing career ended he became a coach even though he
initially lacked the necessary qualifications.


Eventually the Dutch football association (KNVB) grudgingly
agreed to give him the status of coach without him having
followed the required course.


After a successful run coaching Ajax and Barcelona Cruyff became
a football analyst for Dutch public television.


It was there that his strange use of language, coupled with his
insights, propelled him to the status of resident oracle in the
Netherlands.


His so-called Cruyffian language is very popular with his "every
disadvantage has its advantage" becoming a modern catch phrase.


In a poll commissioned by Dutch news agency ANP for his 60th
birthday that phrase was voted most popular ahead of other
classics as "If we have the ball, they can't score" and "it
doesn't matter if the opposing side scores a goal as long as you
score one more than them".


In the ANP poll only 25 percent of the 1,200 people polled said
they understood his insights. Fifty-three percent said they can't
always follow his analysis but don't mind.


According the book "Who is Johan Cruyff. Insiders explain the
oracle" by Mik Schots and Jan Luitzen his biggest critic is his
wife Danny.


She told the authors that when he comes home from his TV job she
often tells him "explain that to me again because I don't
understand what you meant".


The current Dutch national team coach Marco van Basten once said:
"Johan drives me crazy because he always wants to be right".


"Then two months later he really drives me to insanity when it
turns out he was right all along."

