

Scores of gunmen attacked a Chinese-run oil field in a remote
area of Ethiopia on Tuesday killing 74 people including nine
Chinese, a government spokesman said.


Seven Chinese workers were also kidnapped in the attack which the
government blamed on a separatist group, said Ethiopian prime
minister's spokesman, Berekat Simon.


"It is a massacre. It is a terrorist act, ordered by a terrorist
alliance that includes ONLF," said Simon, referring to the Ogaden
National Liberation Front.


Around 200 unidentified gunmen attacked the oil field in Somali
state where China's Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau is
searching for oil, according to a company manager quoted by
China's official Xinhua news agency.


More than 100 soldiers protecting the field engaged the attackers
in a fierce 50-minute gun battle, said the manager, Xu Shuang.


A spokesman for the Chinese embassy in Addis Ababa confirmed the
attack but would give no further details. China has invested
massively in oil exploration across Africa to feed its growing
economy.


The Ethiopian government spokesman said some Ethiopians may also
have been kidnapped during the assault on the oil field at Abole,
a small town about 120 kilometres (75 miles) from the Somali
state capital of Jijiga.


The Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) is a rebel group
fighting for the independence of ethnic Somalis in Ethiopia's
Ogaden region.


In April last year the group warned international oil firms that
exploring for oil and natural gas in the region "for the benefit
of the Ethiopian regime or any foreign firm will not be
tolerated."


The ONLF was formed in 1984. It states that the Ogaden people
have been marginalised and brutalised by the Ethiopian
government.


"After carefully analysing the situation, the Ethiopian army will
pursue the perpetrators and bring them to justice as we have done
in the past," the Ethiopian prime minister's spokesman said.


Addis Ababa has repeatedly accused the insurgents of carrying out
attacks on civilians.

