

Islamist students threw rocks and firecrackers at Britain's
embassy in Tehran on Sunday after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
slammed "arrogant" Britain over Iran's seizure of 15 British
sailors.


The firecrackers exploded inside the embassy compound which was
heavily guarded by anti-riot police and scaffolding to keep
protesters at bay, as both sides sought a diplomatic solution to
the standoff.


The students, who belong to the hardline Basij volunteer militia,
chanted "Death to Britain" and "Death to America" and demanded
punishment for the sailors, seized for alleged illegal entry into
Iranian waters on March 23.


One demonstrator warned from a podium that the British embassy
could face a similar fate to that of the US mission in Tehran ---
stormed with hostages taken in 1980 -- if "Britain keeps on
speaking nonsense".


In London, the Foreign Office insisted that the demonstration was
"under control." Police dispersed the crowd after two hours.


"There's no damage to the building and nobody has been hurt. It
all seems to be under control and there's a police presence," a
Foreign Office spokesman told AFP.


In the latest diplomatic salvo, Iranian media reported that Iran
has formally protested at what it called a "British shootout"
around its consulate in the southern Iraqi port city of Basra on
Thursday.


"Following British forces' movements and shootout around the
Iranian consulate in Basra the foreign ministry submitted a note
of protest to the British embassy in Tehran" on March 30, the
ministry said.


The British military denied any such incident occurred, saying
its soldiers had come under fire during a routine patrol near the
consulate but did not leave their vehicles.


Ahmadinejad was outside Tehran on Sunday, visiting the 1980-1988
Iran-Iraq war front in the west of the country to mark the
anniversary of the 1979 foundation of the Islamic republic.


On Saturday he again called for Britain to apologise.


"The arrogant issue statements and issue demands against the
Iranian people, instead of apologising and expressing regret over
the British sailors entering Iranian waters," he said, quoted by
the state news agency IRNA.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the
captives, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally paraded on state television allegedly confessing and
apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they had strayed into its territorial waters.


US President George W. Bush called Iran's seizure of the 15
Britons inexcusable and demanded the release of the "hostages".


"It's inexcusable behaviour and I strongly support the (British
Prime Minister Tony) Blair government's attempts to resolve this
peacefully," Bush told a news conference on Saturday.


"I support the prime minister when he made it clear there were no
quid pro quos," said Bush, whose country's ties with Tehran have
been severed for decades following a hostage crisis. "The
Iranians must give back the hostages."


The United States has rejected any suggestion that the 15 could
be swapped for five Iranian officials held without charge since
January by US forces in Iraq.


On Friday the European Union foreign ministers deplored the
seizure of the Britons as a breach of international law and
threatened to take "appropriate measures" if they were not freed
soon.


The current EU president, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
visiting Iran's arch- foe Israel on Sunday, said Britain has
Germany's full backing.


"We demand the release of the 15 soldiers and we are standing by
Britain's side," she said at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.


In a sign both sides wish to pursue the diplomatic option, the
Iranian foreign ministry said a note it had received from London
in response to its formal protest contained "different points
which could be examined."


However, it also added that Tehran was awaiting "a correction of
attitude on Britain's part."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett confirmed her ministry
had received a diplomatic note from Tehran over the sailors and
responded to it, without elaborating.


"I think everyone regrets that this position has arisen. What we
want is a way out of it, we want it peacefully and we want it as
soon as possible," she said after meeting her EU counterparts in
Germany.

