

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko prepared on Sunday for
negotiations on his threat to dissolve parliament, as a hard core
of pro-Russian activists camped outside parliament.


Yushchenko was to hold talks with the heads of parliamentary
factions and other officials on Monday ahead of a scheduled trip
to Moscow on Tuesday.


"On Monday I will start my workday by consulting with officials,
with the heads of the parliamentary factions and parliament
itself," Yushchenko said on Saturday.


He said he would dissolve parliament "if the negotiations are not
fruitful."


"I am ready to go as far as dissolution," he said.


Monday's talks come after mass demonstrations in Kiev on Saturday
by opposing sides in this ex-Soviet republic's political crisis.


Yushchenko, who was swept to power in 2005 after mass protests
known as the "orange revolution," wants full integration with the
West, including membership of the NATO military alliance.


His arch-rival, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, favours ties
with Moscow.


Yushchenko has accused the pro-Russian groups that dominate
parliament of anti- constitutional activity, on the grounds that
they have induced pro-Western lawmakers to cross to the other
side and have not honoured his pro-Western agenda.


About 70 Yanukovych supporters camped outside parliament on
Sunday, demanding that the president allow the current parliament
and government to continue its work.


They were holding out after 10,000-20,000 Yanukovych supporters
thronged central Kiev on Saturday protesting against the threat
to dissolve parliament.


At the same time on Saturday, tens of thousands of others
demonstrated in support of dissolving parliament and holding
fresh elections.


"Enough protesting -- it's time to work!" read a banner hanging
above the tent camp, which was equipped with toilets, a medical
tent, a prayer tent and a press centre.


One protester, Yevgeny, a 22-year-old builder from Kharkov, said
"If parliament is dissolved we'll have early elections and then
disorder will break out. Workers won't be paid."


Analysts have warned that the constitutional grounds for
dissolving parliament are shaky and that Yushchenko's Our Ukraine
party is far from assured of success if fresh elections are held.


The weekly newspaper Dzerkalo Tyjnia warned on Saturday that if
pro-Russian forces refused to accept new elections then the
situation could degenerate into violence.


However, the paper said: "Everyone is afraid of violence, or
almost everyone, and that is the ultimate reason for continuing
dialogue between the president and the prime minister."


But an analyst at the Penta research centre in Kiev, Volodymyr
Fesenko, said that the large number of pro-Western supporters who
crowded onto the streets on Saturday might embolden the president
to dissolve parliament.


"The chances of parliamentary elections have increased," he said.


He added however that Yushchenko "risks suffering a severe
collapse of his popularity and losing his political allies,"
notably his glamorous ally from the "orange revolution" days,
Yulia Timoshenko.

