

Nine Zimbabwe opposition activists recovering from beatings in
police custody were taken out of hospital by state security
agents, their lawyer said on Sunday.


The nine were later found at Harare central prison late afternoon
after the lawyer, Alec Muchadehama, had visited several police
stations throughout the day, he told AFP.


The men had been hospitalised on Saturday for injuries suffered
after a police crackdown in the capital Harare in the week. They
were sent to hospital after one collapsed while awaiting a bail
hearing at a magistrate court on Saturday.


"The guys were abducted last night from hospital around 2300 GMT
by state security agents," Muchadehama, a lawyer for the main
opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), said Sunday.


"They were taken from the wards without any hospital discharge
cards or anything to say they have been released.


"We understand the guys who took them were also accompanied by
prison officials." Some were on intravenous drips when they were
taken away.


Muchadehama said he intended going to court on Monday to ask for
an order that the nine be returned to hospital without further
police interference.


Several MDC officials and supporters were arrested last week in
what police said was a clampdown on fire bombers accused of a
series of attacks across the southern African country.


The MDC has denied the accusations saying its members, charged
with attempted murder over the firebombing of a ruling ZANU-PF
office this week, were framed.


On Friday, a defiant President Robert Mugabe told supporters that
MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai had deserved a recent beating by
police.


The veteran leader, who has ruled Zimbabwe since independence
from Britain in 1980, said he had told fellow African leaders at
a summit last week that his arch rival had deserved to be
assaulted.


Addressing a rally in Shona, Mugabe said of Thursday's summit of
the Southern African Development Community in Tanzania: "Yes, I
told them he was beaten but he asked for it."


"We got full backing, not even one (leader) criticised our
actions," added the president, who on Friday was chosen by his
party to stand for another term in office.


Mugabe has been widely condemned by the West for the arrests and
assaults of Tsvangirai and other MDC members last month as they
tried to stage an anti- government rally.

