

Chris Hoy and Victoria Pendleton combined to stretch Britain's
gold medals tally to seven on the final day of the world track
cycling championships here Sunday.


Hoy, the Olympic kilometre champion, came close to his sea level
record of 1:00.711 on his way to claiming a fourth world crown in
the four-lap event to add to his gold in the keirin and silver in
the team sprint.


Pendleton, who reclaimed her coveted sprint crown and the
inaugural women's team sprint, took her third gold from the
keirin after finishing convincingly ahead of strong Chinese racer
Shuang Guo in a two-man race for the finish.


Australia's Anna Meares was a few bike lengths back but dominated
her two other rivals to claim the bronze.


It meant the women's keirin podium was a carbon copy of the
sprint, outlining the talent of all three riders but particularly
Pendleton.


The 26-year-old was unbeaten over two tough days of qualifying
for the sprint final on Saturday before beating 21-year-old Asian
ace Guo into second place.


Less than 24 hours later, Pendleton showed composure and
unbeatable power as she fought her way unbeaten again through the
keirin heats.


In the six-woman keirin final Germany's Christin Muche was
disqualified even before the race got going as she tried to put
Pendleton off.


On one of the first of the eight laps, as the motor-paced derny
led the riders, Pendleton was bundled on to the blue ribbon part
of the track by the German.


It did not go unnoticed, and Muche was soon disqualified for
"unsporting behaviour" according to the race officials.


That incident failed to shake up Pendleton, who, even before the
2008 world championships in Manchester, will be tipped for major
success on the biggest stage of them all in Beijing.


"I was just really focusing on trying to get that third one, I
really wanted it. All three events, got gold. Can't ask for more
than that," said Pendleton, who admitted she was mystified by
Muche's behaviour.


"I held my line but she just kept pushing against me, I was
trying to hold my line but she gave me a big nudge. I thought
perhaps because I came off the track that it might be me
[disqualified], but it wasn't my fault."


Hoy's gold was accompanied by bronze for early pacesetter Jamie
Staff in the kilometre.


Frenchman Francois Pervis finished nearly a second behind the big
Scotsman to take the silver medal.


It is Hoy's fourth world title in the four-lap event in which he
will attempt to beat Frenchman Arnaud Tournant's world record of
58.875sec at altitude in Bolivia on May 12.


Hoy stopped the clock at 1:00.999 and said: "I'm delighted. I
didn't think I would go as fast as that but my morale has been
very good."


Pervis finished in 1:01.838, and admitted the British were the
ones to beat.


"The British team have got their science and prepration right
down to a tee. They've got huge resources, but they work
enormously hard."


Australia dominated the track at Athens in 2004, but in China,
Britain will be looking to rule the roost.


"We've had a vision to be the best team in the world for the past
10 years," added Hoy. "Now, anything less than gold is not
enough."


Britain also won gold in the men's pursuit through Bradley
Wiggins and the men's team pursuit.

