

A South Korean protester set himself on fire Sunday outside a
Seoul hotel where talks on a free trade agreement with the United
States were in their final hours, witnesses said.


"Down with (South Korean President) Roh Moo-Hyun dictatorship!"
the man shouted before dousing himself with flammable liquid and
setting it ablaze with a cigarette lighter, according to police
quoted by Yonhap news agency.


"It was so quick. A man was suddenly in flames and a group of
riot police sprayed fire extinguisher on his body," a
photographer at the scene told AFP.


"An ambulance took him immediately to a nearby hospital."


Another witness said: "He was shouting 'Stop FTA!' while setting
fire to himself. He was repeating the slogan even lying on the
road."


Officials at Joongang University hospital, where he was in an
emergency unit, identified him as Heo Se-Ok aged 56. They said
his condition was serious as of late evening.


At the time of the incident, some 200-300 demonstrators were
protesting in nearby streets against the free trade pact.
Hundreds of riot police with helmets and shields guarded the
hilltop Grand Hyatt hotel, the talks venue.


Heo, a taxi-driver, left a suicide note urging Seoul to pull out
of what he called the "anti-patriotic" talks, according to other
activists quoted by Yonhap.


They said he had been actively involved in anti-FTA protests in
the past.


Farmers and other workers who fear for their jobs, along with
activists, have staged numerous protests since the negotiations
began 10 months ago.


Last November major demonstrations left 63 people injured across
the country, including 35 police officers.


Police deployed some 10,000 officers over the weekend in the
capital. But protests since the final round of negotiations began
on March 26 have been relatively small-scale and largely free of
violence.


In September 2003 a South Korean activist committed suicide in
Mexico in protest at a World Trade Organisation meeting. Lee
Kyung-hae, 56, stabbed himself in the chest during a rally in
Cancun.

