

Thousands of fans descended upon Providence on Sunday hoping to
do their part in preventing the West Indies from slipping to
defeat in their crucial World Cup match against Sri Lanka.


Despite early morning rain, the 15,000-capacity ground was
virtually full before the action began 45 minutes late due to a
wet outfield and showers.


The local organising committee had warned spectators to come
early as they feared latecomers would not only miss the action,
but their seats as well.


"It is electrifying and the fans want to go home happy. We have
done our part by providing the best facilities and now the rest
is in our team's hand," said an official of the organising
committee.


West Indies, who have two carry-over points from the group stage
into the Super Eights, lost to defending champions Australia by
103 runs and to New Zealand by seven wickets.


They face virtual elimination if they lose on Sunday.


Defeat would also threaten attendances at future World Cup games,
but fans were optimistic that Brian Lara's team will turn their
campaign around.


"We cannot lose to Sri Lanka, we are not thinking about it. This
World Cup is ours," said Neil Boyce, clad in a maroon-green West
Indian shirt.


Fans arrived in numbers from other towns in Guyana.


Among them was Amilie Leonard who hails from the Unity, famous
for producing current star Shivnarine Chanderpaul.


"We got stuck in the traffic jam and now we are waiting in the
queue, but I can wait for hours to see my beloved stars playing,"
said Amilie.


The din at the stadium, combined with music in between the
action, also  helped raise spirits.


The Ragonath band, with its five drummers, was ready to play in
the innings break.


"We are here to raise spirits," said Ragonath Deonarine, who has
been a regular feature at international matches played at Guyana.


"Music is our lives and it can raise sagging morale... even the
West Indies team needs it."


Sri Lanka fans, although less in number, are here to support
their team.


"We hope it's a good contest, but in the end Sri Lanka win," said
Roy Dissanayeke, who has come from Colombo.

