

Racing Santander improved their chances of qualifying for
European competition for the first time when they won 5-4 in a
bizarre game with relegation- threatened Athletic Bilbao on
Sunday.


Athletic went ahead from a Luis Prieto free kick after seven
minutes but the fire works started after the break.


Christian Alvarez headed Racing back level after 56 minutes only
for Athletic to go back in front through Joseba Etxeberria six
minutes later.


Ezekiel Garay equalised again for Racing from the spot after 69
minutes which was the first of five goals in the next 12 minutes,
Athletic having been penalised after Ander Murillo had brought
down Oscar Serrano.


Racing then seemed to establish an impregnable lead with a header
from Nicola Zigic and an own goal from the luckless Murillo, who
glanced a Pedro Munitis free kick into his own net.


However, two goals within three minutes from Etxeberria and
Andoni Iraola brought Athletic back level again with just nine
minutes remaining.


Zigic had the last word though, with the Serbian striker tapping
in the winner with his left foot less than two minutes before the
whistle.


The defeat leaves Athletic in deeper relegation trouble, third
from bottom and the possibility looms ever larger that the
historic Basque club will be relegated from the first division
for the first time.


Along with Barcelona and Real Madrid, Athletic have been ever-
present in the top flight of Spanish football since La Liga was
inaugurated in 1928.


Bottom club Gimnastic Tarragona got a 1-1 draw with Recreativo
Huelva but still remain at the foot of the Spanish first
division.


Recreativo's Florent Sinama Pongolle opened the scoring after 10
minutes, chipping the ball over the head of Gimnastic's oncoming
goalkeeper Albano Bizarri from the edge of the area after a quick
counter-attack initiated by an Ikechuckwu Uche header.


However, Gimnastic were back on level terms within five minutes
thanks to a blistering left foot shot from 20 metres by Javier
Portillo


Gimnastic salvaged a point despite playing the majority of the
game with 10 men after Alejandro Campano was sent off just before
half time for hacking down Uche.


Getafe came from two goals down to snatch a point in a 2-2 draw
with fifth- placed Real Zaragoza.


Sergio Garcia put Zaragoza ahead midway through the first half
and then Andres D'Alessandro got one of the best goals of the
season 10 minutes before the break, scoring from a wonderful free
kick 35 metres out on the right wing.


Manu del Moral's header brought Getafe back into the game after
41 minutes and Francisco Casquero equalised on the hour with a
left foot shot.


Atletico Madrid, who are currently sixth, again showed that they
seem to have more problems at home than away with a 1-1 draw with
Real Mallorca.


Fernando Torres put Atletico ahead after 16 minutes but
Mallorca's Venezuelan striker Juan Arango replied for the
visitors eight minutes after the break.


Atletico's unhappy day was completed when their fiery French
midfielder Peter Luccin was shown a red card after the whistle
for insulting the referee.


League leaders Barcelona showed that they are close to
recapturing their top form with an impressive 2-1 win over
Deportivo La Coruna on Saturday.


Lionel Messi and Samuel Eto'o got the Barca goals to give them a
three point lead at the top of La Liga.


Messi scored on the stroke of halftime, chesting down a
Ronaldinho cross and scoring with his left foot, with Eto'o
putting Barca further ahead on 51 minutes.


Deportivo's Adrian Lopez, who like Messi is still only 19 years
old, outpaced Barcelona's defenders to get one back for the hosts
21 minutes from time.


Second-placed Sevilla have a game in hand and play at Osasuna
later on Sunday but Barca have a far superior goal difference.


Valencia warmed up for Wednesday's Champions League clash with
Chelsea with a 3-2 win over Espanyol on Saturday, their goals
coming from Spanish internationals David Villa, Vicente Rodriguez
and Miguel Angel Angulo.


The 2002 and 2004 Spanish champions leapfrog over Real Madrid,
who play at Celta Vigo later on Sunday, into third place.

