

US and South Korean officials struggling to clinch a major free
trade agreement kept talking past their deadline early Monday --
the second time in two days they have extended the tough
negotiations.


"The talks are continuing after going past 1:00 am (1600 GMT
Sunday)," said Han Dong-Man, a Korean trade ministry spokesman.
"We will make an announcement if a result comes out."


Hundreds of people waving flags and chanting "Down with (South
Korean President) Roh Moo-Hyun!" took to the streets of Seoul in
protest against any pact, scuffling with police who blocked
approaches to the Presidential Blue House.


Earlier Sunday a 56-year-old man shouting "Stop FTA!" set himself
alight outside the venue, the closely-guarded hilltop Grand Hyatt
hotel. Police doused the flames but his condition was serious,
hospital officials said.


Korean negotiators had previously raised hopes of a deal.


"I believe negotiations will be concluded in time. There was
progress in the afternoon session," Bae Jong-Ha, lead negotiator
for the sensitive agriculture sector, told reporters.


Disputes over textiles had been reported as virtually settled.


South Korea held an emergency meeting of economy-related cabinet
members, Yonhap news agency reported, in an apparent sign that a
deal was imminent.


The 1:00 am deadline was set when negotiators early Saturday kept
talking past a previous deadline.


Any deal must be submitted to the US Congress Monday if it is to
be passed while President George W. Bush retains his authority to
"fast-track" the deal through the Democrat-controlled
legislature.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice rang her South Korean
opposite number Song Min-Soon on Sunday to push for an agreement.
It was the second high-level intervention after Bush and Roh
Thursday agreed to instruct their negotiators to be flexible.


A deal would be the biggest for the United States since the North
American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and its first with a major
Asian economy.


Trade between the world's largest and 11th largest economies
totalled 74 billion dollars in 2006, and studies show this could
rise by about 20 percent if trade is liberalised.


South Korea would get a boost in the US market over Asian rivals
such as Japan, Taiwan and China which have not signed a pact, and
protected economic sectors would become more efficient by being
exposed to competition.


But heavily subsidised farmers and other workers who fear for
their jobs, along with activists, have staged numerous protests.


Agriculture has been a key issue. South Korea insists that rice
be excluded from a deal and has resisted pressure for quick
tariff cuts on other sensitive food items.


Washington wants Seoul to open its markets to US beef, by cutting
a 40 percent tariff and scrapping non-tariff barriers.


Before a 2003 import ban was imposed over fears of mad cow
disease, South Korea was the third largest market for US beef
with annual purchases worth 850 million dollars.


Seoul last year lifted the ban and agreed to accept US boneless
beef but it then rejected three shipments after discovering tiny
bone fragments.


South Korea, in a compromise deal, is likely to accept the US
demand on beef in return for excluding rice from the deal, local
media said.


The US also wants South Korea to liberalise its auto market.
Seoul sold some 800,000 vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in
the United States last year, while US firms exported only some
4,000 vehicles the other way.


Some 80 percent of Seoul's trade surplus with Washington -- which
amounted to 16 billion dollars in 2005 -- is due to the auto
trade.

