

Real Madrid coach Fabio Capello conceded that his team were lucky
to get three points against relegation-threatened Celta Vigo
despite winning 2-1 on Sunday.


"A draw would have been fair. Both teams went out to win and
neither of the two just went out to defend. I liked what my
players did and and we were facing a good team in Celta Vigo,"
said Capello.


Capello also had high praise Robinho, who came on as a second
half substitute and secured three points for Real with a winner
seven minutes before the end.


"He's back to being a deciding factor (in games)," said Capello,
paying tribute to the Brazilian international striker with whom
he has often had strained relations.


Robinho also scored in Real's last game, a 2-0 win over
struggling Gimnastic Tarragona two weeks ago.


His latest goal came from a header after Gonzalo Higuain had sent
a pass across the area which Celta goalkeeper Jose Manuel Pinto
could only punch away and Robinho was on hand to head home from
the edge of the six yard box.


Ruud van Nistlerooy opened the scoring for Real from the penalty
spot after 27 minutes after Pinto had brought him down with a
badly timed tackle.


Angel Lopez then brought Celta back level two minutes before the
break, scoring from the right edge of the area after an
outstanding back-heeled defence- splitting pass from Nene.


The goal sparked a Celta revival after an unimpressive first half
and they were only denied another goal in the second half by the
outstanding efforts of Real goalkeeper Iker Casillas.


"Robinho had a a great game but then all the players played well.
I hope we can carry on like this in the following games," added
Capello, who has regularly repeated his belief in recent weeks
that Real can still win the Spanish title.


They are currently in third place in La Liga, five points behind
the league leaders and their bitter rivals Barcelona.


Robinho's late winner left Capello's opposite number Fernando
Vazquez to lament, "Football once again is unfair to Celta. We
deserved to win or at least draw."


"I'm proud of the players. We showed a lot of courage against
Real. We played well and the only worrying thing is that we are
not winning at home. This is clearly affecting our mental state,"
added Vazquez.


Celta are remain one place and one point above the releagtion
zone and have not had a home victory in the league since October.

