

English Premiership tailenders Northampton overcame the odds to
beat French side Biarritz 7-6 here on Sunday and progress to the
European Cup semi-finals.


The Saints - who had been beaten twice by their rivals in the
pool phase this season - prevailed over last year's finalists
thanks to a 66th minute try by Robbie Kydd, which former All
Black fly-half Carlos Spencer converted to take the lead after
Biarritz had led 6-0 thanks to two Dimitri Yachvili penalties.


Saints coach Paul Grayson could scarcely believe what had
happened.


"I think we were a hundred to one odds," said the former England
fly-half, who was a member of the England squad that won the 2003
World Cup.


"It's been an incredible week and an incredible day."


His Biarritz counterpart Patrice Lagisquet was left fuming.


"If we hadn't givem such a present (the try) I do not see how
such a team could have won the match as they didn't have any
gameplan," said Lagisquet.


However Yachvili's overall performance will again have given him
cause for concern about winning a place in France's World Cup
squad - after a dire one in France's defeat by England in the Six
Nations which ultimately cost the French the Grand Slam.


It was Yachvili's pass that was intercepted by Kydd with 14
minutes remaining of a tough, no-holds barred but error strewn
encounter.


The Northampton centre ran it back 70 metres to touch down and
Spencer dutifully converted it.


Kydd admitted that he was astonished he had made it all the way.


"I was waiting for someone to tackle me. I felt like I was going
up and down on the same spot," said Kydd, who along with his
team-mates will face English rivals Wasps in the last four.


"It is an amazing feeling and I don't see why we can't go on and
win it.


"This win shows what we can achieve when we are on our game."


Biarritz tried everything to regain the lead but poor handling
and superb tackling by their opponents - with former France and
Toulouse backrow forward Christian Labit outstanding - frustrated
them.


"This afternoon we didn't just beat 22 guys, we beat 30,000
people in a stadium draped in red and white (the Biarritz
colours)," beamed Labit.

