

Britain and Iran were engaged in direct talks over 15 detained
British naval personnel, both sides said Sunday, but high
emotions threatened to derail diplomatic efforts as Tehran showed
new television footage of the captives.


Top officials continued to trade barbs and Iranian students
staged a rock- and firecracker-throwing demonstration at the
British embassy in Tehran, while Iran's foreign ministry urged
the US president to steer clear of the matter.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the 15
sailors and marines, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally paraded on state television allegedly confessing and
apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they were captured because they strayed into its territorial
waters.


Images broadcast on Iranian state television late Sunday showed
two of the naval personnel separately, each standing in front of
an Iranian chart of the northern Gulf waters where they were
seized on March 23.


The original audio of their comments could not be heard but
according to a purported Arab-language translation they admitted
Iran's accusation that they were detained on the Iranian side of
the maritime boundary.


Even though the sailors said they were being well-treated,
Britain was quick to condemn the new pictures as "unacceptable,"
a foreign ministry spokeswoman said.


US President George W. Bush, who has backed Britain in its
attempts to free the captive personnel, called the sailors
"hostages" and urged their release on Saturday, words which drew
a harsh retort from Iran on Sunday.


"It is better for the US president to refrain from making ill-
considered, non- technical and irrational comments," state
television quoted foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali
Hosseini as saying.


Bush had told reporters there would be "no quid pro quos. The
Iranians must give back the hostages."


Washington has rejected any suggestion that the 15 could be
swapped for five Iranian officials held without charge since
January by US forces in Iraq.


The United States's ties with Tehran have been severed for
decades following the 1980 hostage crisis.


An Iranian military chief on Sunday accused US warplanes of
violating Iranian airspace in the southwestern oil province of
Khuzestan, charges that were denied by the US military.


Meanwhile, the foreign ministers of Britain and Iran confirmed
that they have been holding direct talks over the detentions.


Britain's Defense Secretary Des Browne told BBC television that
Britain was doing everything it could to resolve the matter by
diplomatic means as soon as possible.


"We are in direct bilateral communication with the Iranians and
they know that not only are we in a very clear position but that
we have the support of almost all of the international
community."


Asked to elaborate on the comments, a Foreign Office spokeswoman
told AFP there had been contacts between Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett and Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki.


She reiterated that Britain had replied on Saturday to a letter
from the Iranian embassy that had asked Britain to acknowledge
that the sailors had trespassed and confirm that it would not
happen again.


Iran confirmed the direct talks, saying contacts had never been
cut.


"They were never cut and so there was no need to restart them,"
an Iranian official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"Iran has never wanted to close the diplomatic path, unless the
British government creates such conditions."


In Tehran, meanwhile, firecrackers exploded inside the British
embassy compound which was heavily guarded by anti-riot police
and scaffolding to keep the protesters, members of the hardline
Basij volunteer militia, at bay.


The students chanted "Death to Britain" and "Death to America"
and called for the 15 sailors and marines to be punished. Police
dispersed the crowd after two hours.


On Saturday, Iran's President Ahmadinejad had again called on
Britain to apologise.


Britain also formally denied reports in the Iranian media Sunday
of a "British shootout" around the Iranian consulate in the
southern Iraqi port city of Basra.


On Friday, European Union foreign ministers deplored the seizure
of the Britons as a breach of international law and threatened to
take "appropriate measures" if they were not freed soon.


The current EU president, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
visiting Iran's arch- foe Israel on Sunday, said Britain had
Germany's full backing.


"We demand the release of the 15 soldiers and we are standing by
Britain's side," she said at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.

