

An Iraqi held at the US base in Guantanamo Bay for nearly five
years said Sunday his "nightmare is finally at an end" in a
statement issued after he returned to his family living in
Britain.


Bisher al-Rawi also spoke of the "hopelessness" and "extreme
isolation" suffered by detainees at the US military base in Cuba
and asked to be granted time with relatives to come to terms with
his "horrific experience".


Al-Rawi was arrested in November 2002 while on a business trip to
Gambia, where his supporters say he was helping his older brother
Wahab set up a peanut oil processing business.


He returned to the family home in New Malden, southwest London,
this weekend.


"The hopelessness you feel in Guantanamo can hardly be
described," he said in a statement released through his lawyers.


"You are asked the same questions hundreds of times. Allegations
are made against you that are laughably untrue, but you have no
chance to prove them wrong. There is no trial, no fair legal
process.


"I was alleged to have participated in terrorist training in
Bosnia and Afghanistan. I've never been to Bosnia and the only
time I visited Afghanistan was thanks to the hospitality of the
CIA in an underground prison, the Dark Prison outside Kabul."


News of Al-Rawi's release was announced by Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett in a written statement to parliament last week.


Although he is not a British citizen, he was allowed to live in
Britain after his immediate family fled Iraq more than 20 years
ago when his father was arrested and tortured under former
dictator Saddam Hussein's regime.


Beckett added that his return would follow "extensive discussions
to address the security implications of Mr Al-Rawi's return."


Asked what this would mean for Al-Rawi now that he was back in
Britain, the Foreign Office would not comment except to say that
Britain would "continue to take the necessary measures to
maintain national and international security."


Human rights group Amnesty International called "urgently" for an
independent inquiry into "any UK complicity with Guantanamo
detentions", including in Al- Rawi's case.


It added that Britain had played a "shadowy role" in his arrest
and rendition.


"In the past, the government has shamefully tried to wash its
hands of UK residents at Guantanamo -- with Bisher's belated
release, this must now end," the organisation said in a
statement.


Al-Rawi said there were still nine other British residents in the
Guantanamo camp, some of whom were on hunger strike to protest at
their extended periods in solitary confinement.


He called for them to be allowed to return to Britain soon.


These include Jamil El-Banna, a British refugee from Jordan, who
was arrested alongside Al-Rawi in Gambia.


Clive Stafford-Smith, his lawyer, has said that Al-Rawi was
showing signs of secure housing unit psychosis, which affects
prisoners held in high-security compounds, after spending four
years in detention.


Stafford-Smith described the conditions in which Al-Rawi was held
as "worse than any death row I've ever seen."

