

Leicester ensured there would be no French representatives in the
European Cup semi-finals for the first time since the 1995-96
season here on Sunday as they edged Stade Francais 21-20 in a
thrilling quarter-final.


A late try by replacement Tom Varndell and the conversion by Andy
Goode saw the Tigers rebound from 20-14 down to go ahead by a
point leaving Stade and its flamboyant owner Max Guazzini still
searching for their first ever European Cup.


It had looked like French fly-half David Skrela had sealed their
place in the last four with a drop goal but Varndell's try erased
their hopes.


Leicester will now play Welsh side Llanelli, who beat holders
Munster on Friday, while Leinster's conquerors Wasps will take on
Northampton, who beat Biarritz earlier on Sunday.


Leicester skipper Martin Corry said watching from the sidelines -
he played 70 minutes before going off - had been agony.


"I feel I aged several years sitting and watching that!" grinned
the former England captain. "The boys were just tremendous and
showed extraordinary character."


The first-half was full of free-flowing rugby with both sides
preferring to run the ball than kick.


Fijian flyer Seru Rabeni grabbed the first try of the match for
the Tigers as he ran on to a beautiful sleight of hand pass by
Geordan Murphy and touched down.


Skrela hit back with a penalty before Stade took the lead through
a brilliant solo try by Argentinian fullback Juan Martin
Hernandez, who broke four tackles to score in the corner.


However Leicester retook the advantage thanks to two penalties by
Goode, and the second one had seen French flanker Remy Martin
yellow-carded.


Despite this Stade, thanks to Skrela's admirable boot, ended the
half all square, while Goode could have had the hosts in front at
the break had a penalty not bounced off the post.


Skrela restored the lead for Stade shortly after the break with
another penalty while Leicester were not helping themselves by
making a series of handling errors.


Goode replied in kind to bring the sides level again with just
over 25 minutes remaining.


Leicester looked certain to regain the lead in the see saw
encounter as Andy Tuilagi charged down the right wing and with
the corner in sight he was left dazed and confused in touch after
a cracking last ditch tackle by Hernandez.


Hernandez then almost gave the game away as his kick from inside
his goal area was charged down by England scrum-half Harry Ellis,
but the ball went over the deadball line. Ellis had to be treated
for a couple of minutes having taken the ball full in the face.


Stade were back in the lead shortly after the hour mark as the
metronomic Skrela converted another penalty to make it 17-14.


The son of the former French coach Jean-Claude produced what
looked like being the match-winning moment with just over 10
minutes remaining as he put over a superb drop goal leaving
Leicester requiring a converted try to get past them.


However their joy turned to tears as Varndell collected a pass
down the right wing and burst past Mirko Bergamasco to touch down
under the posts for his fourth try of the tournament. Goode
converted to put them ahead by a point.


Skrela tried the drop goal again with just seconds remaining but
it went agonisingly wide of the posts and the Tigers were left to
enjoy their moment of glory.

