

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said Sunday that she
held Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe "responsible" for attacks
on nine opposition members which showed the steps he would take
to "cling on to power".


"I utterly condemn the beatings by the Zimbabwe police of those
who have been arrested on charges of treason. I hold Mugabe
responsible for their injuries," she said in a statement.


"This is further evidence of how low Mugabe will go in order to
cling on to power."


Mugabe, Zimbabwe's leader since independence from Britain in
1980, was chosen Friday to stand again as the ruling Zanu-PF
party's candidate for the presidential elections next year.


The move came despite his being widely blamed for the violence
and economic crisis gripping the country, which has the world's
highest inflation rate -- 1,730 percent -- and four out of five
people out of work.


The nine opposition members, hospitalised Saturday after
sustaining injuries during a police crackdown in Harare last
week, have since been abducted from hospital, a lawyer for the
main opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) said Sunday.


"The guys were abducted last night from hospital around 2300 GMT
by state security agents," Alec Muchadehama said.


"They were taken from the wards without any hospital discharge
cards or anything to say they have been released.


"We understand the guys who took them were also accompanied by
prison officials."


Britain, the former colonial power in Zimbabwe, has been among
the most vocal opponents of the Mugabe regime and its calls of
condemnation have got stronger in recent months.


Last month, Prime Minister Tony Blair said he wanted the European
Union to take a tougher line with the 83-year-old Mugabe and has
also called for action from the UN Security Council and Human
Rights Commission.


Blair has labelled events in Zimbabwe "appalling, disgraceful and
utterly tragic".


But Mugabe's supporters say that Britain and the United States
have a personal vendetta against him.


A string of MDC officials and supporters were arrested last week
in what the authorities, which have not yet reacted to the
abduction claim, said was a crackdown on fire bombers accused of
a series of attacks across Zimbabwe.


The MDC denies this, saying its members, who were charged with
attempted murder over the firebombing of a Zanu-PF office, were
framed.


Last month, MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai suffered a fractured
skull after being beaten by police.


Tsvangirai has said the attack against him will motivate him to
keep fighting against the government.


But Mugabe said Friday that Tsvangirai had "asked for it", adding
that Blair and US President George W Bush were "gravely mistaken"
if they thought his regime had reached a tipping point.

