

Israeli security sources on Sunday accused Palestinian prime
minister and Hamas leader Ismail Haniya of funnelling one million
dollars given to him by a Saudi donor to the movement's armed
wing.


Hamas rejected the charge as unfounded and aimed at discrediting
the radical Islamist movement.


"He received several million dollars from a Saudi donor and
transferred one million dollars to the Ezzedine al-Qassam
Brigades," the military wing of the Islamist Hamas movement, a
senior Israeli security source told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


"Ismail Haniya himself authorized the transfer of this money to a
terrorist cell two days before the new Palestinian unity
government was sworn in" on March 17, the source added, without
specifying how the information was obtained.


The source was echoing charges first made by Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert in an interview with Time Magazine published this weekend.


"Just lately, Haniya transferred over a million dollars for a
group of terrorists to carry out terrorist actions against
Israeli citizens," Olmert said. "Funds that were received from
outside to one of the military branches of Hamas for the explicit
purpose of carrying out terrorist actions."


But Hamas spokesman Ghazi Hamad rejected the unsubstantiated
charges as "false and groundless."


"The prime minister has not received money from Saudi Arabia or
from any person and has not transferred money to any faction," he
said.


"This is an attempt to soil the image of the government and a
provocation after the success of the government with the
international and Arab community."


"All the money that has been brought back from abroad has been
put into the account of the finance ministry and has been used to
offer services and ease the suffering of the Palestinian people."


Israel and the West cut off direct aid to and froze ties with the
Palestinian government in March 2006 when Hamas took power and
refused to recognise Israel, renounce violence, or abide by past
peace deals.


Israel has called on the international community to stand fast by
the boycott despite the swearing in of a new Palestinian
coalition government that includes the moderate Fatah party loyal
to president Mahmud Abbas on March 17.


The new government insists its governing programme satisfies the
international conditions for acceptance, but Israel argues
otherwise.

