

Olympic champion Chris Hoy handed Britain their sixth gold medal
when he defended his kilometre crown here on the final day of the
world track cycling championships on Sunday.


Frenchman Francois Pervis finished nearly a second behind the big
Scotsman to take the silver medal with another Britain, Jamie
Staff, taking the bronze.


It is Hoy's fourth world title in the four-lap event in which he
will attempt to beat Frenchman Arnaud Tournant's world record of
58.875sec at altitude in Bolivia on May 12.


Hoy now has two golds and a silver from these world championships
having won the men's keirin on Saturday and come second in the
team sprint, Britain losing the gold to defending champions
France by only 0.002sec on Friday.


The team sprint is one of the titles Britain covet most and will
be one of the titles Hoy will be concentrating on most in China
next year.


After a widely unexpected but deserved keirin gold to go with his
kilo crown, the 30-year-old from Edinburgh could not fail to be
happy.


"It would have been the best ever championships for me if not for
that two thousandths of a second in the team sprint," said Hoy,
whose second gold of the championships means Britain now has six
and 10 medals in total.


"I'm delighted. I didn't think I would go as fast as that but my
morale has been very good."


Former sprint specialist Staff stunned the kilo specialists when
he started second from the field of 20 riders to set a fast time
of 1:02.074.


His mark stood until pre-race gold medal contender Pervis hit
full power in the second half of his effort to grab provisional
top spot.


With Staff assured of the bronze, Hoy went out to make sure he
would be going for his world record attempt wearing the world
champion's rainbow jersey.


The Scot's face reflected the agony of hitting the big gear from
the outset, but that allowed him to lead Pervis at every stage of
the race.


From leading by 0.113secs after the first 125 metres Hoy pushed
his advantage to 0.331 by the 750 metre mark.


He eventually finished in a time of 1:00.999, just over two
tenths of a second slower than the world sea level record of
1:00.711 he set during his triumphant Olympic final at Athens in
2004.


Pervis finished in 1:01.838. "I'm happy with the silver medal,
and can't say anything about Chris's performance," said the
Frenchman.


"The British team have got their science and prepration right
down to a tee. They've got huge resources, but they work
enormously hard.


"But at the same time, it's good to have that kind of
competition."


Hoy will now take a deserved rest before heading to Fort
Lauderdale in Florida, which shares the same time zone as
Bolivia, a week before his record attempt.


Despite the kilometre no longer being part of the Olympic
programme, Hoy is already looking to a possible three gold medals
in Beijing where he could race in the team sprint, keirin and
sprint.


Australia dominated the track at Athens in 2004, but in China,
Britain will be looking to rule the roost.


"We've had a vision to be the best team in the world for the past
10 years," added Hoy. "Now, anything less than gold is not
enough."

