

Britain expressed "continuing regret" Sunday over deaths on both
sides in the Falklands War, on the eve of the 25th anniversary of
the 1982 invasion of the islands by Argentina.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett stressed London's commitment
to "constructive" ties with Buenos Aires, and announced an offer
for families of dead Argentine soldiers to hold a commemorative
event on the islands.


In a statement issued a day before the 25th anniversary Monday,
Beckett said the memorial could be held at the Argentine cemetery
in Darwin "towards the end of 2007".


"April 2 marks the 25th anniversary of the Argentine invasion of
the Falklands. The resulting loss of life on both sides is a
source of continuing regret," Beckett said.


"We have now, with the agreement of the Falkland Islands
government, offered members of families of the Argentine armed
forces who fell in 1982 the opportunity to travel to the islands
towards the end of 2007 to hold a private commemorative event at
the Argentine cemetery in Darwin."


Beckett added that Britain was keen to "foster a constructive
relationship" with Argentina and to promote cooperation in the
South Atlantic and on broader international affairs.


Britain and Argentina waged a two-month long war after
Argentina's military government, headed by General Leopoldo
Galtieri, invaded the remote South Atlantic islands on April 2,
1982.


London is to mark the anniversary of the conflict with a series
of events in the coming weeks, including exhibitions, veterans'
reunion dinners and church memorials.


Then prime minister Margaret Thatcher, whose Iron Lady reputation
was forged during the crisis, is also joining tributes to the 255
British troops and three islanders killed fighting Argentine
forces.


Argentina, which lost 649 men in a war that triggered the
collapse of its military junta, is hosting its own remembrance
ceremonies.


In Britain events will climax on June 14, the date in 1982 when
Argentina surrendered to Britain.


After Argentina's then military rulers seized the lightly-
defended overseas territory to assert their country's long-held
claim of sovereignty over "the Malvinas", Thatcher sent 110 ships
and 28,000 personnel to retake them.


Hostilities involved combat in the air, land and sea, with the
loss of six British ships and damage to many others by Argentine
air attacks that involved the French-built Exocet missile.


However, backed by gunships and carrier-launched warplanes and
helicopters, 10,000 British troops landed on the islands and
defeated a similar number of Argentine forces.


In the most controversial incident, 323 Argentines died when the
Conqueror, a British nuclear-powered submarine firing
conventional torpedos, sunk the cruiser General Belgrano.

