

The Zimbabwean government Sunday urged workers to ignore calls by
labour union leaders for a two-day general strike in protest
against the country's economic meltdown.


"I wish to appeal to all workers to ignore the politically-
motivated stayaway being called for by the Zimbabwe Congress of
Trade Unions (ZCTU) on April 3 and 4," Labour Minister Nicholas
Goche said in a statement.


The ZCTU said it decided to call a general labour shutdown over
the authorities' failure to respond to concerns about the
worsening economic crisis.


Four in every five potential workers are jobless in Zimbabwe and
official inflation stands at 1,730 percent.


"Government has learned that it is the individuals in the ZCTU
who are aligned to the oppositional politics of the Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC)...who want to be seen participating in
the current Western-backed violence aimed at regime change in
Zimbabwe," Goche said.


He said everyone should report for work as usual, adding that the
authorities would ensure public transport was available and
security ensured during the strike days.


"Employers are free to deal with the workers who choose to
deliberately stay away from work," he said.


In September, labour unions were forced to abandon plans for mass
anti- government protests after organisers were rounded up in a
police crackdown.


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downward spiral for the last
seven years, characterised by runaway inflation and perennial
shortages of basic commodities.


Its annual rate of inflation, already the highest in the world,
should hit 4,000 percent by year-end, according to the
International Monetary Fund (IMF).


Several trade unions in Europe and Africa have thrown their
weight behind the ZCTU strike call.


"The government of Zimbabwe should take steps to address the
economic meltdown," said national umbrella unions of Nigeria,
Ghana, Zambia, Malawi, the Netherlands, Finland and Denmark in a
statement published in Zimbabwe's The Standard independent
weekly.


The Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) said it would
hold demonstrations next week in a show of solidarity with
Zimbabwean workers.


"COSATU is giving its full support to its trade union comrades in
Zimbabwe, as they struggle against an economic catastrophe and
more and more vicious attacks on their members and leaders," it
said in a statement.


The congress, which is critical of the Pretoria government's
policy of "quiet diplomacy" towards its northern neighbour, said
South Africans and Zimbabweans living in South Africa would march
on the Zimbabwean consulate in Johannesburg on Tuesday.


President Thabo Mbeki was tasked by the Southern African
Development Community last week to promote talks between the
government and opposition leaders in Zimbabwe.


South Africa's Sunday Times newspaper, meanwhile, reported that
at least 49,000 Zimbabweans were illegally crossing into South
Africa every month.

