

Rio Ferdinand believes his Manchester United team-mate Cristiano
Ronaldo deserves to be crowned Europe's best player after a
majestic season with the Premiership leaders.


Ronaldo's imperious form has been the driving force behind
United's bid to win a treble of the Premiership, Champions League
and FA Cup.


The Portugal winger, 22, is a firm favourite to be voted Player
of the Year in England by his fellow professionals and the media.
But Ferdinand is convinced Ronaldo should also be hailed as the
finest player in Europe, ahead of stars like Barcelona's
Ronaldinho and Chelsea's Didier Drogba.


"Cristiano has certainly been the best player in Europe,"
Ferdinand told Inside United.


"There is no doubt in my mind he will win both domestic awards,
but I think he will clean up on the awards front - including the
European prizes.


"No-one has produced the kind of football he has produced on a
regular basis and there is no other player as exciting as him.


"Ronaldinho hasn't done it and Samuel Eto'o has been injured a
lot. Didier Drogba has been very good for Chelsea but I don't
think he gets you off your seat like Cristiano does and I don't
think as many people would pay to watch him."


If Ronaldo does finish the season with a Premiership winners'
medal as well as a host of individual awards it will complete a
remarkable transformation after he considered leaving Old
Trafford in the aftermath of his World Cup clash with Wayne
Rooney.


Ronaldo was vilified for his role in his United team-mate's
dismissal during England's quarter-final against Portugal and was
reported to have been talked out of joining Real Madrid as he
tried to escape the backlash.


Ferdinand admires Ronaldo's eventual decision to prove himself in
England and the defender said: "He went through a lot last summer
after the World Cup. When difficult circumstances arise you are
able to gauge a person's personality and see how they react.


"The best players respond in adverse situations by putting in
good performances and that is what Cristiano has done.


"The fact he has come back and performed to a consistently high
level throughout the season demands a lot of respect and all the
plaudits that have been showered on him are well deserved.


"Not only has Cristiano scored goals this season, he has added so
much more to his game.


"When you look back at the winner he scored at Fulham earlier
this season it was like Roy of the Rovers stuff.


"It just showed his will to win, the character and the physical
attributes he possesses."

