

Afghanistan's extremist Taliban said it hanged on Sunday three
men in a small southern town it has occupied for two months as a
police chief said the rebels killed seven of his men.


The Taliban said it hanged the men in the town of Musa Qala after
a Taliban "court" found them guilty of spying for foreign forces.


One body was strung up in the centre of the small town in the
southern province of Helmand and the other two at its entrances,
a local merchant told AFP by telephone.


A Taliban commander who identified himself as Mullah Nizam
claimed responsibility for the killings, similar to executions by
the 1996-2001 Taliban government which enforced a harsh version
of Islamic Sharia law.


"They confessed they were spying for the government and foreign
forces. We hanged them to set an example for others not to spy on
us," Nizam said.


He claimed the three had in particular spied on late commander
Mullah Abdul Manan, whose forces took control of the town early
February.


Manan was killed February 11 in a precision air strike by NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), which is trying
to help the government handle a growing Taliban insurgency.


Musa Qala was the subject of a controversial deal around
September last year in which the government allowed tribal elders
to administer the town.


At the government's request, ISAF agreed not to operate in an
area around Musa Qala while the elders kept the Taliban in check.


The deal shattered when Taliban fighters stormed the town early
February, apparently angry that one of their men had been killed.
They disarmed the weak auxiliary police and occupied
administration headquarters.


ISAF and the defence force say they could use force to take back
Musa Qala but the government prefers to try to negotiate a
solution.


"The government is content to take a longer approach to this and
unless they ask for ISAF support, we are content to support them
in this manner," ISAF spokesman Colonel Tom Collins said Sunday.


Helmand province has seen some of the worst of Afghanistan's
fighting, which has left more than 900 people dead, most of them
rebels, according to an AFP tally.


Officials admit some districts are in the control of hardcore
Taliban who are allied with foreign fighters and kingpins of
Afghanistan's three-billion- dollar-a-year opium industry.


Collins said an ISAF and Afghan army operation launched in
Helmand early March had killed "dozens of the enemy." Three
foreign soldiers have also lost their lives.


He rejected suggestions that the Taliban was able to control
certain areas because of its strength. "It is not that the
Taliban are strong, it is that the institutions of Afghanistan
remain relatively weak.


"There are simply not enough Afghan National Army, Afghan
National Police and other institutions of the state to man all
the areas of this country that need to be manned," he told
reporters.


The police forces have been particularly hard-hit this year,
making up the bulk of more than 130 members of the Afghan
security forces who have been killed.


In a new attack, seven policemen were killed when they were
ambushed by Taliban fighters in the southern province of Kandahar
late Saturday, police said. The ambush took place as the police
were on their way to support another unit under siege in Shorabak
district in the southwestern corner of the country.

