

EU president German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday urged
Middle East nations to seize the moment and revive the stalled
peace process as she met Israeli and Palestinian leaders.


The German chancellor began talks with Palestinian president
Mahmud Abbas in the West Bank city of Ramallah after holding a
series of talks with Israeli leaders in Jerusalem.


"We are going through a period where we feel that things are
moving," Merkel said in a speech at Hebrew University in
Jerusalem, where she received an honorary doctorate.


"There is a window of opportunity... The Arab world is ready to
talk about the Mideast conflict and its solutions. There is a
real chance of reaching a breakthrough and we must grasp it," she
said, according to a translation of her remarks in German.


Receiving the German chancellor at an official ceremony, Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said he hoped Merkel and "other
leaders will be able to help us and our neighbours to reach a
breakthrough while taking into consideration maximum sensitivity
to security issues."


The Jewish state is "at a critical crossroad of important
decisions regarding its future and its existence... We are facing
considerable threats and opportunities to move forward in the
peace process with Arab states."


Merkel was to meet Olmert for a third time later on Sunday,
following two meetings after arriving in Israel from Jordan the
previous day.


Her trip comes amid increased international efforts to restart
stalled Middle East peace talks, and follows last week's Arab
summit in Riyadh that revived a five-year-old peace plan.


The Arab proposal offers Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and
allows for the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israel has not endorsed the blueprint as is, saying negotiations
were needed on the refugee issue.


The talks between Merkel and Olmert were likely to be strained by
the EU's official decision on Saturday to deal with non-Hamas
members of the two-week-old Palestinian unity government, which
united the radical Islamists with Western- backed moderates.


Israel has refused to deal with the government led by Hamas,
which it and the West consider a terror group, and has urged the
Middle East Quartet -- the EU, Russia, the United Nations and the
United States -- to do the same.


"There is going to be talk about the issue," government
spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


"Israel continues to say clearly that the new Palestinian
government headed by (Hamas premier) Ismail Haniya openly
supports terror, funds terror and we have stated clearly that we
that all members of this governement... should not be
recognised," Eisin said.


Merkel hailed the new coalition, but said she would tell Abbas
that it must agree to abide by Quartet conditions of renouncing
violence, recognising Israel and agreeing to abide by past peace
deals.


She said she would also urge the new coalition to secure the
release of an Israeli soldier seized nine months ago by Gaza-
based militants, including the armed wing of Hamas -- a major
stumbling block in Israeli-Palestinian ties.


Abbas will in turn emphasise to Merkel that "this is the
president's government and not Hamas's government," his advisor
Nimr Hamad told AFP.


The Quartet slapped a diplomatic and direct aid embargo on the
Palestinian government last year after Hamas won democratic
elections and formed a cabinet alone.


Since the inauguration of a unity cabinet on March 17, the
European Union -- the largest donor of aid to the Palestinians --
has eased the diplomatic freeze, meeting with non-Hamas
ministers, but has not lifted the embargo on direct aid to the
cabinet.


Merkel is due to wind up her visit to the region in Lebanon.

