

The foreign ministers of Britain and Iran have been in touch over
the detention of 15 British naval personnel, a Foreign Office
spokeswoman told AFP Sunday.


The spokeswoman was elaborating on comments by Britain's Defence
Secretary Des Browne to BBC television that Britain was in
"direct bilateral communication" with Iran.


The news came after Islamist students threw rocks and
firecrackers at Britain's embassy during a demonstration in
Tehran.


Browne had told the BBC that Britain was doing everything it
could to resolve the matter by diplomatic means as soon as
possible.


"It's not my intention to go through the detail of that blow-by-
blow and it wouldn't be appropriate to do that," he continued.


"But we are in direct bilateral communication with the Iranians
and they know that not only are we in a very clear position but
that we have the support of almost all of the international
community."


Asked to elaborate on the comments, a Foreign Office spokeswoman
told AFP there had been contacts between Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett and Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki.


She reiterated that Britain had replied on Saturday to a letter
from the Iranian embassy that had asked Britain to acknowledge
that the sailors had trespassed and confirm that it would not
happen again.


In Tehran meanwhile firecrackers exploded inside the British
embassy compound which was heavily guarded by anti-riot police
and scaffolding to keep the protesters, members of the hardline
Basij volunteer militia, at bay.


The students chanted "Death to Britain", "Death to America" and
called for the sailors, who were captured for alleged illegal
entry into Iranian waters on March 23, to be punished.


One demonstrator warned from a podium that the British embassy
could face a similar fate to that of the US mission in Tehran ---
stormed with hostages taken in 1980 -- if "Britain keeps on
speaking nonsense". Police dispersed the crowd after two hours.


On Saturday, Iran's President Ahmadinejad had again called on
Britain to apologise.


"The arrogant issue statements and issue demands against the
Iranian people, instead of apologising and expressing regret over
the British sailors entering Iranian waters," the state news
agency IRNA reported him as saying.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the
captives, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally paraded on state television allegedly confessing and
apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they strayed into its territorial waters.


Britain also formally denied reports in the Iranian media Sunday
of a "British shoot-out" around the Iranian consulate in the
southern Iraqi port city of Basra.


Britain said that at the time of the alleged incident Thursday,
its soldiers had come under fire during a routine patrol near the
consulate but had not left their vehicles.


US President George W. Bush has called Iran's seizure of the 15
Britons inexcusable and demanded the release of the "hostages",
giving his full backing to British Prime Minister Tony Blair.


"I support the prime minister when he made it clear there were no
quid pro quos," said Bush.


"The Iranians must give back the hostages."


The United States' ties with Tehran have been severed for decades
following the 1980 hostage crisis.


Washington has rejected any suggestion that the 15 could be
swapped for five Iranian officials held without charge since
January by US forces in Iraq.


On Friday, European Union foreign ministers deplored the seizure
of the Britons as a breach of international law and threatened to
take "appropriate measures" if they were not freed soon.


The current EU president, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
visiting Iran's arch- foe Israel on Sunday, said Britain had
Germany's full backing.


"We demand the release of the 15 soldiers and we are standing by
Britain's side," she said at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.

