

Thousands of French communists turned out Sunday to hear their
candidate for president vow to slam the brakes on the free market
even as polls show Marie- George Buffet is headed for the worst
ever electoral drubbing of a communist.


Buffet is calling for redistributing billions of dollars in
"hidden treasure" from company profits into the French social
welfare system.


"Power to the shareholders, that's not my republic!" Buffet told
some 12,000 supporters at a Paris sports stadium, just three
weeks before the April 22 election.


Waving red flags and seated under huge banners of revolutionary
icon Che Guevara, the crowd cheered as Buffet proclaimed that
"there is still in France a left that has not given up."


"The France that I love will never accept the idea that it is
outdated to strive for social progress," she said.


But Buffet is waging a twilight battle for the French presidency,
deserted by many in the working class who now are more likely to
vote for far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


Polls show Buffet would get 2.0 percent of the vote, less than
the 3.37 percent her predecessor Robert Hue scored 3.37 percent
in the 2002 election, and well behind party stalwart George
Marchais who picked up more than 15 percent of the vote in 1981.


Worse still, the 57-year-old mayor of the Paris suburb of Blanc-
Mesnil is being outshined among far-left supporters by young
Olivier Besancenot of the Trotskyist Revolutionary Communist
League.


An energetic orator, Besancenot, 32, is nearing five percent in
the polls while fellow Trotskyist Arlette Laguiller is under two
percent and anti-globalisation crusader Jose Bove is credited
with one percent of the vote.


Six candidates to the left of the Socialist Party nominee
Segolene Royal are campaigning in the French presidential
election, an exception in Europe where communist parties have
been on a steady decline since the 1991 demise of the Soviet
Union.


For Buffet, crossing the five-percent threshold is crucial as
French election law stipulates that campaign expenditures will be
fully reimbursed by the state only if a candidate garners that
percentage of votes.


Already the party's financial woes are making headlines with some
18 properties including a party school in Draveil, outside Paris,
sold off to raise funds.


Founded 87 years ago, the French Communist party claims to have
134,000 members, making it the third largest political party in
France after the governing Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) and
the Socialists.


The Communists hold 22 seats in the National Assembly and some
13,000 elected officials -- mostly mayors and city councillors --
are card-carrying members with two key Paris suburbs -- Val-de-
Marne and Seine-Saint-Denis -- governed by a Communist majority.


But for Pierre Lemain, 61, a retired financial director for a
private firm, and party member for 38 years, the Communist party
is condemned to a slow and inevitable decline.


"We are part of the May '68 generation," he said, referring to
the student movement that took to the streets in 1968 to press
for sweeping change.


"We did things in a collective way. Today's generation has an
individualistic approach," said Lemain.


Union activist Xavier Chuat, 54, said he would vote for Buffet as
the only one "who defends the values of the left", which he said
entailed "standing up to the bosses."


But he added that "the French left was a bit lost" following the
outcome of the 2002 presidential election that saw Socialist
Lionel Jospin knocked out of the race in favor of Le Pen, who
went into the runoff vote that Jacques Chirac won.


The splintering of the vote on the left was blamed for Jospin's
humiliating showing and Royal has urged supporters to rally
behind her in the upcoming election to avoid a repeat of the 2002
outcome.


On Sunday, Buffet hit back at that strategy, saying that
supporting Royal in the first round would mean that "the entire
political spectrum has shifted to the right."


As has been the case for decades of French Communist party
rallies, Sunday's gathering ended with a heart-felt rendering of
the communist anthem, the Internationale.

