

At least 62 people were killed and 21 wounded in an attack on an
Arab tribe in the war-torn Dafur region of western Sudan,
according to a toll given by the victims' relatives on Sunday.


"Two new bodies were left at the hospital in Nyala," the South
Darfur provincial seat, Abdel Rahman Hasaballah of the targeted
Torjam tribe told AFP by telephone.


Tribal chief Mohammed Hammad Jalali initially told AFP that 60
people were killed by gunmen riding camels and donkeys who
swooped down on villages to steal livestock.


"We buried 23 people on Saturday," he said at the time, with the
rest still at the hospital morgue.


Thirteen wounded villagers are being treated in the provincial
capital of Nyala and another eight in the nearby town of Kas, he
said.


Families initially refused to collect the bodies from the
hospital in protest.


They finally agreed to do so after setting three conditions for
the authorities -- an impartial investigation to identify the
perpetrators, better protection and compensation for the victims'
families.


The Torjam are blaming the attack on the government-backed
Janjaweed militia, often used by the Sudanese authorities to
suppress a rebellion raging in the region for the past four
years.


But local officials quoted by the press blamed the killings on a
rival Arab tribe in the region, the Rzigat Aballa -- which in the
past had provided recruits for the Janjaweed.


"We think the Rzigat Aballa is responsible for the attack because
it occurred in the area of recent clashes between the two
tribes," said Mohammed al-Ajeb, adding that some 500 heads of
cattle had been seized and driven northwest.


The authorities negotiated a truce between the two tribes in
February after earlier confrontations.


United Nations and African Union envoys on recent visits to
Khartoum bidding to find a peaceful solution to the Darfur crisis
warned against tribal rivalries complicating the search for
peace.


Since the outbreak of hostilities in the vast Darfur region in
2003, some 200,000 people have been killed and 2.5 million
displaced in the fighting, according to UN estimates. Some
sources say the death toll is much higher.


A 2006 peace agreement with one rebel faction has failed to halt
the fighting, with rejectionist splinter groups continuing to
battle government forces and Janjaweed militias.

