

US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Sunday hailed US-Israeli ties
and reaffirmed Washington's commitment to its main ally in the
region in an address before the Israeli parliament.


"There is an unshakeable bond between America and Israel,"
Pelosi, wearing a red suit, told lawmakers, adding that
"America's commitment to Israel's security is unshakeable."


"Israeli democracy is one of the cornerstones of a more stable
and democratic Middle East."


Washington's top Democrat said she would call for the release of
three captured Israeli soldiers -- one by Gaza-based militants
last June and two by Lebanon's Hezbollah a month later -- during
her visit to Syria later this week.


"We must never rest until they are all safely at home," she said.
"And I will mention this to the president of Syria."


Pelosi is due to meet with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in a
visit on Tuesday that has raised the ire of the White House.


She will tell the Syrian leader that the Jewish state is ready to
revive peace talks, frozen since 2000, if Damascus stops
supporting "terrorists."


During talks between Pelosi and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert in Jerusalem earlier Sunday, the speaker asked what she
could tell Syrian officials following her visit to Israel.


"It should first of all stop supporting terrorism," Miri Eisin
quoted Olmert as telling the speaker. "We will be happy to talk
with it if it does so."


Pelosi said she was "concerned" that "some of the new Palestinian
government, some of the people in the government, continue to
remain committed to the destruction of Israel."


She was referring to the Islamist Hamas movement, the senior
partner in a Palestinian coalition cabinet inaugurated two weeks
ago, which has refused to renounce violence, recognise Israel and
agree to abide by past peace deals.


But Pelosi urged Israelis to keep up dialogue with moderate
Palestinians like president Mahmud Abbas.


"Talking with responsible Palestinian partners is a wise
investment in Israel's future," she said.


She also pledged that on the heels of increased efforts by US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to jumpstart stalled peace
talks, Washington will stay engaged.


"The United States must have a sustained high level engagement in
the region to bring us closer to the day that we all long for --
when the entire Palestinian government is ready for peace."

