

Pakistan bowling great Wasim Akram Sunday hailed Australian
paceman Glenn McGrath's feat of breaking his World Cup record of
most wickets, saying he wanted to congratulate his all-time
favourite.


"I just want to pass on my best wishes and say 'mate you deserve
all the records that cricket offers.' I am relieved that a bowler
of McGrath's calibre has broked my record," Wasim told AFP by
telephone from Singapore.


McGrath overhauled Wasim's World Cup record of 55 during his
three for 16 in world champions Australia's 10-wicket thrashing
of Bangladesh at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium in Antigua on
Saturday.


Wasim, who now works as commentator for the ESPN-Star channel,
still holds the record of most wickets in one-day cricket history
with 502, a tally McGrath will not pass as he will retire after
the World Cup.


The 37-year-old McGrath, who retired from Test cricket early this
year with 563 wickets, has 367 one-day victims in 244 matches.


Wasim said McGrath is an all-time great bowler.


"I consider McGrath and (former West Indies star) Malcolm
Marshall as two all- time greats and I think they were a cut
above the rest. McGrath is the complete bowler - physically and
mentally.


"He has the cunning for all batsmen and the way he executes his
plans is great. You become his fan once you see him bowl and I
have had the privilege of playing alongside this great man."


Wasim said players like McGrath make the Australian side world
beaters.


"Australia look miles ahead of the other teams simply because
they have players of McGrath's calibre and, as far as I'm
concerned, it will take a huge effort from other teams to stop
them from running away with their third World Cup title in a
row."


Wasim, who led Pakistan to the runners-up spot when Australia won
the 1999 World Cup, said Sri Lanka and South Africa must produce
their best to stop Australia.


"If not Australia then it's Sri Lanka for me. I have been backing
them since the start and the South Africans are also looking
good."


Wasim, who retired after Pakistan's first round exit from the
2003 tournament, said Pakistan and India had both disappointed
him in the current World Cup.


"Pakistan and India played badly and that led to their own
downfall. They both need to lift themselves and they have the
talent to do that," said Wasim.


The South Asian giants both made first round exits in the
Caribbean.


Pakistan lost to the West Indies and Ireland in Group D, while
India were upset by Bangladesh and Sri Lanka to go out from Group
B.


A day after their upset defeat against Ireland, Pakistan also
lost their coach Bob Woolmer, strangled to death in his hotel
room in Jamaica.


"It was sad to lose a man like Woolmer. He was a great coach, a
great human being and a great friend. The circumstances in which
he died were unacceptable," said Wasim who added that the
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) now needs wise planning to lift the
game.


"What the PCB chairman Naseem Ashraf needs to do is to have wise
advisers like Imran Khan (former captain) and pick the best
possible coach like Waqar Younis or Aaqib Javed," suggested
Wasim, who ruled himself out as coach.


"Coaching is a specialised field and I don't think my busy
schedule with television would allow me do that, but I am ready
to help the youngsters in bowling. Whenever I am required I will
go and train them."

