

Former UN secretary general Kofi Annan was named as the chairman
of the six- person committee that will judge the world's biggest
prize on Sunday, awarded to departing African statesmen for
promoting good governance.


Annan will be joined on the committee for the annual Mo Ibrahim
Prize for Achievement in African Leadership by the UN Special
Envoy for Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari, former UN high commissioner
for human rights Mary Robinson, and the Special Adviser to the
Director-General of UNESCO, Aicha Bah Diallo.


Also on the committee are Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the former finance
and foreign minister of Nigeria, and Salim Ahmed Salim, the
former Tanzanian prime minister and former secretary general of
the Organisation of African Unity.


"Good governance and leadership are central to finding solutions
to the vast challenges that face Africa," Annan, who is Ghanaian,
was to say at the announcement of the committee in Geneva, after
the group met over the weekend.


"We hope the Mo Ibrahim prize will help to energise African
leadership and encourage a new generation of young leaders to
step up to this most urgent of challenges," said Annan, whose
term as secretary ended at the end of last year.


The award, named after the Sudanese mobile phone tycoon funding
it, will land a former head of state or government from sub-
Saharan Africa with a five-million- dollar (3.75-million-euro)
prize split over 10 years with 200,000 dollars annually for the
rest of their lives.


A further 200,000 dollars a year will be made available for good
causes espoused by the former leader.


It will be awarded for the first time this year, and far exceeds
the 1.3 million dollars given to recipients of the Nobel Peace
Prize.


The annual Ibrahim Index for African Governance, also run by the
Mo Ibrahim Foundation, will rank the countries according to
governance quality, with the idea of showing African citizens how
their rulers match up.


"I am delighted to have all these people here today," Ibrahim was
to say in Geneva.


"With this Prize and the Ibrahim Index, we hope to make a unique
contribution to assessing governance and recognising leadership
in Africa."


The committee will draw on research provided by the Ibrahim
Index, and will base their decision on the quality of governance
in a wide variety of areas, from the rule of law to economic and
social development.


Speaking to AFP at the launch of the prize in October, Ibrahim
said that his foundation wanted to "celebrate the guy who managed
to take his people out of poverty. That deserves the largest
prize in the world.


"Billions of dollars are thrown at African countries. Five
million dollars to reward good leaders is peanuts when it comes
to matters of life and death."

