

The spectre of previous hostage crises with Iran grew Sunday
after US President George W. Bush used the "h word" to describe
the 15 British sailors captured by Iran last month.


The British government has been careful not to use the word
hostage to describe its naval personnel, who are spending their
second week in the hands of Iran after being seized at gunpoint
in the northern Gulf on March 23.


But Bush, breaking his silence on the standoff, said Saturday: "I
support the prime minister (Tony Blair) when he made it clear
there were no quid pro quos.... The Iranians must give back the
hostages."


A Foreign Office spokesman played down the significance of Bush's
term -- while welcoming the president's expression of support: "I
shouldn't read too much into it".


But whether intended or not, "hostage" is seen by many as a fair
term -- and the US president's use of it could have wider
significance.


Sir Malcolm Rifkind, foreign secretary from 1995-97 and a
lawmaker with the main opposition Conservative Party, told AFP
that Britain itself needed to be "more diplomatic" than to use
such terms.


"I don't think it does any harm for the word to be in
circulation," he said. "I think it's wise for Britain not to use
it but if others do, it gets across the opinion that Iran is
treating them as pawns."


Rifkind thought the group was seized due to regional politics "so
for that reason they can be reasonably described as hostages."


But he said: "The British government themselves have not used
that term because it would imply an escalation of the process --
it's not that they don't feel it's an accurate term."


Bush's reference to "hostages" was not the first time in recent
days that the term has surfaced. British media started using it
during the course of last week, after it became obvious there was
not going to be an immediate release.


On Saturday Terry Waite, the former Church of England negotiator
held hostage in Beirut for nearly five years from 1987 by the
pro-Iranian Islamic Jihad, offered to negotiate the group's
release,


The capture of the 15 Britons is not without precedent: in 2004
eight Britons were seized in similar circumstances and also
paraded on television -- that time with blindfolds.


But unlike the current standoff, they were released within a few
days.


For some, Bush's use of the term "hostages" has revived memories
of the 1979-81 crisis in Tehran, when militant students stormed
the US embassy and took 63 people hostage.


The students were demanding that the former Shah, who had just
been overthrown in the country's revolution and was in the United
States for medical treatment, be sent home.


Some Americans were released quickly but the rest of the group
was only freed in 1981, 444 days after their capture.


This traumatic incident prompted the US to sever diplomatic ties
with Iran and has underpinned its attitudes towards Tehran ever
since.


"It is the image of the Iranians' seizure of those Americans 28
years and the 444 days that they were held, that will most haunt
Tony Blair as he seeks to navigate an early diplomatic exit for
the 15 British naval personnel being held in Iran," the Observer
newspaper wrote Sunday.


But Mike Gapes, the chairman of the House of Commons foreign
affairs committee and a lawmaker with the ruling Labour Party,
said that this time, there could be no attempt to use military
action to free the hostages.


"I don't think there's any suggestion of any kind of military
action that will release these people," he said.


"After all, (then US president) Jimmy Carter tried something in
1979-80 and it was a disaster and those people were held for 444
days," he told ITV television, calling for a "diplomatic
solution".

