

England coach Duncan Fletcher believes the recent arrival of the
England cricket team's wives and girlfriends can play a key role
in helping his side raise their game during what will be a vital
week for their World Cup hopes.


Many former England players criticised the presence of the WAGS,
as they are collectively called, during England's 5-0 Ashes
series humiliation in Australia, saying their presence was a
distraction and meant the team didn't bond as a close-knit unit.


And during last year's football World Cup in Germany, the
partners of England players received widespread criticism for
what was deemed to be their publicity- seeking conduct.


But England coach Fletcher was gratified by the arrival of
England's 'other halves' at the team hotel in Antigua here Sunday
and believes they could provide his under-performing squad with a
timely boost.


"We've done it on previous tours and on some of the tours when
they've arrived we've put in some very solid performances," said
Fletcher.


"India was a good example a few years ago when we were losing 1-0
in the Test series and the wives arrived and we ended up drawing
the series - they do help when they arrive."


England were convincingly beaten by New Zealand, the only Test
nation they've played so far at this World Cup, in the group
stages while they failed to go for the jugular during wins over
'minnows' Canada, Kenya and Ireland.


However, this week they will need to raise their game against Sri
Lanka, World Cup winners in 1996, and reigning champions
Australia who are bidding for a third successive title.


England have never won the World Cup and the last of their three
losing appearances in a final was back in 1992.


Fletcher knows that if his side are to make it out of the Super
Eights they have little margin for error after losing to New
Zealand.


"We've got to the stage now where we've got some big matches to
play," admitted Fletcher. "Sri Lanka is going to be a huge game
for us on Wednesday.


"But having lost to New Zealand we have to make sure we win every
game from here on in. This is the biggest week of our World Cup
so far because we're up against the big countries now.


"We need to find consistency. We just don't seem to be consistent
and we have to be very careful that when we don't play well,
other sides can take advantage of that situation and we'll
struggle to get out of that."


England, who belied their poor one-day record of recent years to
beat Australia 2-0 in the triangular series final in February,
have failed to show a ruthless streak during this World Cup.


For example, in their previous match, they reduced Ireland to 11
for two only for the mainly amateur side to score 218.


"We have to lift our game," Fletcher conceded. "There are areas
in our bowling where we had them two down early on and we looked
as though we got a bit complacent and thought we were going to
run through them.


"We've got to make sure when we get them there we keep bowling
the lines and plans that we've set and maintain those
disciplines."


After Wednesday's match against Sri Lanka, England face old
rivals Australia here on Sunday, April 8.

