

A little over a decade ago, Nepal's Maoists were a few dozen
extreme leftists with homemade weapons determined to transform
the impoverished Himalayan kingdom into a communist republic.


On Sunday, they made a massive ideological leap, taking five
ministerial portfolios in a new government, and promising to help
steer the country into democratic elections.


Since they launched their "people's war" in 1996, at least 13,000
people have been killed and the country's already fragile economy
crippled.


Inspired by Peru's Shining Path movement and the teachings of
China's Mao Zedong, the rebels quickly established a presence in
many rural areas with their potent mix of leftism and violence,
intimidation and indoctrination.


Initially their powerbases were the rural western districts of
Rukum and Rolpa, economically deprived areas with a history of
supporting communist politicians.


But in caste-riven rural Nepal, the rebels quickly found fertile
ground for their "Prachanda Path" version of communism -- named
after their leader -- and went on to control large tracts of the
countryside.


The Maoists even ran their own governments in many parts of rural
Nepal where government security forces and officials held little
sway.


Human rights groups accused both the rebels and security forces
of torture, abductions and the murder of innocent civilians
throughout the conflict.


A turning point came in June 2001, when most of the royal family
was wiped out in a massacre by the crown prince, who also killed
himself.


The new king, Gyanendra, assumed dictatorial powers, a move that
turned mainstream political parties against him and into talks
with the rebels.


Mass street protests organised by the rebels and the parties
forced the embattled king to end direct rule and restore
parliament last year.


The move paved the way, four months later, for a historic peace
deal with the rebels who pledged to renounce violence and join
mainstream politics, a major shift in their tactics.


As five rebels were sworn into cabinet, Maoist leader Prachanda
declared Sunday "a historic day for Nepal."


"A new process of making a new Nepal has begun," said Prachanda,
who still uses his nom de guerre which means "the fierce one."


A key test of their new roles as lawmakers will come in June when
the country will elect a body that will rewrite the constitution
and decide on the future of the king.


Although the Maoists have registered their weapons and fighters
with the United Nations as part of the peace deal, questions
remain about whether they really have changed, amid allegations
of ongoing extortion, beatings and kidnappings.


Earlier this month they admitted their loyalists had attacked a
Kathmandu hotelier who failed to pay up cash, and have promised
to stamp out such action.


"Now the Maoists have to completely give up their past activities
of continuing violence as they are part of government," said
Rabindra Khanal, who teaches politics at Nepal's Tribhuvan
University.


"If incidents of violence and intimidation continue to be
reported, the people will not trust them," he said.


Another political science teacher at Nepal's Tribhuvan
University, Krishna Khanal, said the Maoists were facing a make-
or-break phase in their struggle to change the country.


"The intimidation and extortion... has to be completely halted,
otherwise their involvement in the government will be
meaningless," he said.


"This is a very big opportunity for them to prove themselves, (to
show) their decade-long people's war was fought to change the
existing problems of the state."

