

India's World Cup flop has had a disastrous effect on the
Caribbean tourist trade, a government minister said Sunday.


Antigua tourism minister Harold Lovell bemoaned the poor
attendances at matches taking place at the new Sir Vivian
Richards Stadium here and the low occupancy rates in the island's
hotels.


"The hotel association report that there have been several
cancellations from the journalists, from the fans and mainly
Indians and you know India is very big in the World Cup, not only
from the point of view of the support base that travels with the
Indian team, but also at the sponsorship level," Lovell told the
Caribbean Media Corporation.


"If you look at the main sponsors for World Cup at least three of
them are from India. So when India was eliminated from the
competition a lot of the Indian fans decided that they would pack
up and go away.


"So many of the properties have had serious cancellations from
the Indian fans and I think that is a major contributing factor
but I think generally speaking that it might have been over
touted a bit and that the expectations might have been a bit
higher than reality would have actually dictated."


India, who had been due to play two Super Eights matches here,
were knocked out of the World Cup in the first round.


Meanwhile, former West Indies captain Richie Richardson has
accused World Cup organisers of selling out the event to an
"external force" and said the tournament had been "hijacked" from
Caribbean people.


Richardson claimed regional organisers had bowed to the wishes of
the International Cricket Council (ICC).


"I'm saying an external force has come and hijacked us," said
Richardson, who captained the Windies between 1992 and 1996, and
who was commenting on the low crowds which have been a problem in
the Caribbean.


"We (the people) should have a say in what's taking place."


Another former West Indies player, Kenneth Benjamin, criticised
the various regional governments involved in the organisation of
the World Cup.


"I'm blaming the Caricom heads of government for what's taking
place," Benjamin told the ZDK radio station.


"The Caribbean was not properly represented when we were
negotiating with the ICC. What's taking place is that I think we
have been marginalised and taken back to slavery."

