

Goals from Amara Diane and Sylvain Armand lifted Paris Saint
Germain out of the relegation zone Sunday with a valuable 2-1 win
at European hopefuls Lens.


Le Guen opted for the strike trio of Pierre-Alan Frau, Peguy
Luyindula and Diane for the must-win tie, leaving under-achieving
stalwarts Pedro Pauleta and Bonaventure Kalou on the bench.


And the strategy of the former Rangers boss paid off early with
Luyindula setting up Diane for the opener after just three
minutes.


The hosts grabbed the equaliser six minutes after the break when
the ball bounced off the leg of PSG defender David Rozehnal into
his own net.


But PSG continued to press forward with Armand grabbing the
winner after 72 minutes.


The win lifts PSG one point above the drop zone, but they still
face a battle for survival with upcoming ties against French
League Cup winners Bordeaux, Toulouse and Lyon.


The squeeze is now on Lens, second behind leaders Lyon, for a
European spot with challengers Sochaux and Toulouse moving third
and fourth, three points behind Lens, after 1-0 wins over Troyes
and Saint Etienne respectively.


Johan Elmander's eighth goal of the season after 72 minutes
secured all three points for hosts Toulouse, while a Romain Pitau
free kick after 33 minutes secured a victory for Sochaux as
Troyes drop into the relegation zone after their fourth defeat on
the trot.


Bordeaux, riding high after Saturday's League Cup final win over
Lyon, can however reclaim the third spot as they play Nancy on
Wednesday, with the champions hosting Rennes.


In the race for Europe, Lille's bid for a Champions League spot
was further hit as they dropped to sixth place after losing 2-0
at home to northern rivals Valenciennes.


Elsewhere former European champions Marseille missed the chance
to cement their European credentials with a 2-1 defeat at Lorient
on Saturday.


Sitting ninth, Le Mans, threw away a two-goal advantage,
including an 11th goal of the season for Ismael Bangoura, to draw
2-2 with Auxerre.


At the other end of the table, Nice were held 1-1 by visiting
Monaco, a draw which leaves the hosts just two points clear of
safety.


Sedan moved off the bottom spot for the first time since mid-
November after a goalkeeping howler from Fabien Barthez gave them
a 1-0 win over relegation rivals Nantes.


The 1998 World Cup winner fumbled to allow what had been a weak
effort from Sedan captain David Ducourtioux into his own net
after 61 minutes.


The veteran was substituted minutes later, complaining from a
thigh injury picked up at the beginning of the match.

