

Inter Milan won 2-0 at home to relegation-threatened Parma on
Sunday to move within touching distance of the Serie A title.


The visitors frustrated the reigning champions for 55 minutes
before goals from Brazilian Maxwell and Argentine striker Hernan
Crespo ended the visitors' stubborn resistance.


A far from straightforward victory left Inter still unbeaten on
79 points, 20 ahead of second-placed Roma, who drew 1-1 with AC
Milan on Saturday.


Inter, who finished third last season but were awarded the title
after Juventus and AC Milan were found guilty of match-fixing,
need just eight more points from their remaining nine games to be
certain of retaining the Scudetto.


Luca Saudati scored twice as Empoli boosted their chances of a
Champions League place for next season with a resounding 4-1 home
win against bottom club Ascoli.


Victory for the division's surprise package closed the gap on
fourth-placed Palermo to just three points after the Sicilians
could only manage a goalless draw at Torino.


Ascoli remain anchored to the foot of the table on 19 points,
three adrift of Parma.


Third-placed Lazio, who go in search of their seventh consecutive
win in Sunday's late match at Udinese, have 49 points, followed
by Palermo on 48, Empoli on 45 and AC Milan on 44.


Fiorentina, who are chasing a UEFA Cup place, threw away a two-
goal lead in their 2-2 draw at Atalanta while Cagliari boosted
their survival hopes with a 2-0 home win over fellow relegation
candidates Messina.


Livorno captain Cristiano Lucarelli scored a hat-trick in his
side's 4-1 hammering of Catania, while Chievo remain in danger of
the drop after a 1-1 draw at home to Sampdoria.


Inter were struggling to find a way through against Parma before
a moment of magic from Maxwell broke the stalemate.


The 25-year-old wingback chased a wayward pass from compatriot
Maicon and kept the ball from going out of play with a clever
touch that also enabled him to get past Damiano Ferronetti tight
on the left touchline.


The former Ajax player then exchanged passes with Crespo before
swerving past three Parma defenders and firing an angled shot
into the top corner with his left foot.


Crespo practically extinguished Parma's hopes of taking something
from the match in the 70th minute, tapping into an empty net
after a square pass from Adriano.


Parma threw caution to the wind in the last 20 minutes and Inter
were indebted to their keeper Francesco Toldo for a string of
fine saves that preserved their two-goal cushion.


On Saturday Roma and AC Milan, who are both involved in next
week's Champions League quarter-finals, played out a draw at the
Olympic stadium.


French defender Philippe Mexes gave Roma an early lead with a
rising drive from the edge of the box, before Alberto Gilardino
equalised with a glancing header.


In Saturday's other match, Siena eased their relegation fears
with a precious 1-0 win at fellow strugglers Reggina.

