

Dubai World Cup flop Discreet Cat was suffering from a throat
infection when he failed to live up to his star billing in the
world's richest race won by Invasor, his Godolphin stable
reported on Sunday.


The second favourite for the six million dollar showpiece on the
dirt of Nad Al Sheba was never a factor on Saturday night and
trailed in last under Frankie Dettori behind the impressive
American challenger Invasor.


And Godolphin vets havce pinpointed a throat infection as the
probable cause for his poor run.


A statement on the stable's website reported: "Following Discreet
Cat's disappointing performance in the Dubai World Cup last
night, he has undergone a complete veterinary check at Al Quoz
Stables this morning.


"This included an endoscopic examination of his respiratory
tract, which revealed an obstructive granulomatous mass within
his throat, in addition to significant swelling of the underlying
throat wall, as a result of an infective process.


"In the opinion of the Godolphin veterinary surgeons, this would
have affected his performance, firstly by physically obstructing
the airflow into his throat and lungs, and secondly by causing
him significant discomfort.


"He is now undergoing appropriate treatment and assessments."


Earlier trainer Saeed bin Suroor announced Discreet Cat would be
dropping back in distance to his favoured mile trip.


"It doesn't look like Discreet Cat stays the distance and we will
drop him back to a mile," said Suroor, whose charge had been the
only horse to inflict a defeat on Invasor in last year's UAE
Derby.


"It was a disappointing performance and we will see how the horse
comes out of the race before making firm plans."


Dettori, who won one race on the night but on American horse
Kellys Landing, was left non-plussed by Discreet Cat's
performance.


"I am very disappointed. I don't know what to say, I don't know
if he didn't stay or if there was some other reason," said the
Italian, who has won three World Cups.


"He was beaten a long way and I can't tell you why."


Godolphin's urbane racing manager Simon Crisford insisted that
this would be just a temporary blip on the radar.


"We will give him some time out now and then get him back to
America," said Crisford.


"It was very disappointing but all the good champions get beaten
at some point and he will be back."

