

Besieged by political rows and sagging poll ratings, US President
George W. Bush received a fresh blow Sunday as a former top aide
who helped him get elected publicly criticized his leadership.


Matthew Dowd, a key advisor to Bush during two election
victories, became the first member of the president's inner
circle to publicly break ranks, voicing disappointment over his
strategy in Iraq in a New York Times interview.


His comments came amid mounting pressure on Bush over the war,
with Democrats refusing to slacken their efforts to pull out US
forces, and accusations of wrongdoing by Bush's top justice
official, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, in the firing of
federal prosecutors.


Dowd accused Bush of ignoring the will of the American people on
Iraq, the newspaper reported. He said Bush's Democratic rival for
the presidency in the 2004 race, John Kerry, was right to call
for US withdrawal from the country.


Bush's camp reiterated his refusal to bow to the Democrats' bid
to pull out the troops. One of his senior advisers, Dan Bartlett,
branded it a political maneuver that would leave Americans open
to attack.


"A precipitous withdrawal, if we were to step back now ... would
weaken the United States' interests in the region and in the
world. It would make us more vulnerable to attack," Bartlett said
Sunday on ABC news.


Lawmakers last week passed a Democrat-sponsored bill that would
set the withdrawal of troops in 2008 as a condition for a major
war funding package. Bush has vowed to veto the bill if it comes
to him with a timetable for a pull- out.


Bartlett told ABC that the bill was "substituting the judgment of
politicians here in Washington for the judgment of our commanders
on the ground."


He said on CBS television's "Face the Nation" program that the
party "respectfully" disagreed with the comments of Dowd, who has
a son about to be deployed for service in Iraq.


Dowd defected from the Democrats after becoming disillusioned
with Democratic former president Bill Clinton, and joined the
Bush camp. He was chief strategist in the president's 2004
victorious re-election campaign.


In the newspaper interview, however, he accused Bush of failing
to reach a political consensus on the war.


"If the American public says they're done with something, our
leaders have to understand what they want," the newspaper quoted
Dowd as saying. "They're saying, 'Get out of Iraq.'"


Bush approaches governing with a "my way or the highway"
mentality, the paper quoted Dowd as saying. "I think he's become
more ... secluded and bubbled-in."


A poll published this weekend by Newsweek magazine showed that
Bush's approval rating stood at just 33 percent, while 57 of
Americans support setting a timetable for a phased pull-out of US
troops from Iraq.


Democrats stuck by the troop withdrawal bill despite Bush's vow
to throw it out. "If he's going to veto, he's going to veto a
position that the vast majority of the American people hold,"
Democratic Senator Joseph R. Biden told Fox News.


On another front, Republicans showed no signs of budging on the
White House's refusal to send its top officials to testify under
oath over the sacked prosecutors. Critics have said the
dismissals were politically motivated.


"It will be up to the president to decide ... whether and when
and under what circumstances members of his own administration
testify," Republican Senator Mitch McConnell said on Fox News.


Speaking on CBS news, Bartlett reiterated Bush's proposal to have
Gonzales testify to Congress over the matter, but not let White
House aides give recorded testimony under oath.

