

Britain is in "direct bilateral communication" with Iran over the
detention of 15 British naval personnel, Defence Secretary Des
Browne told BBC television Sunday.


Asked to elaborate on the comments, a Foreign Office spokeswoman
told AFP that there had been contacts between Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett and Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki.


She also reiterated that Britain has replied to a letter from the
Iranian embassy in London, which asks the British government to
acknowledge that the sailors had trespassed and confirm that it
would not happen again.


In an interview conducted in Afghanistan, Browne said there was
"no reason" for Iran to continue to hold the group.


"We are anxious that this matter be resolved as quickly as
possible and that it be resolved by diplomatic means and we are
bending every single effort to that," he said.


"It's not my intention to go through the detail of that blow-by-
blow and it wouldn't be appropriate to do that, but we are in
direct bilateral communication with the Iranians and they know
that not only are we in a very clear position but that we have
the support of almost all of the international community.


"The message from the UN, the message from the European Union
ought to make it clear to them that their responsibility is to
release our detained personnel."


He did not give further details of the contacts.


Browne's comments came as tension over the detention last month
of the British naval personnel in the northern Gulf escalates.


In Tehran, Islamist students on Sunday were throwing rocks and
firecrackers at the British embassy, while hardline Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad described Britain as "arrogant"
over the crisis.


"The arrogant issue statements and issue demands against the
Iranian people, instead of apologising and expressing regret over
the British sailors entering Iranian waters," he was quoted by
the state news agency IRNA as saying.


A further twist came when Iranian media reported that Iran has
formally protested at what it called a "British shootout" around
its consulate in the southern Iraqi port city of Basra on
Thursday.


The British military denied any such incident occurred, saying
its soldiers had come under fire during a routine patrol near the
consulate but did not leave their vehicles.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to release the
British sailors, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally paraded on state television allegedly confessing and
apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they had strayed into Iranian territorial waters.


US President George W. Bush called Iran's seizure of the 15
Britons inexcusable and demanded the release of the "hostages".


On Friday the European Union foreign ministers deplored the
detention of the Britons as a breach of international law and
threatened to take "appropriate measures" if they were not freed
soon.

