

Besieged by political rows and sagging poll ratings, US President
George W. Bush received a fresh blow Sunday as a former top aide
who helped him get elected publicly criticized his leadership.


Matthew Dowd, a key advisor to Bush in two election victories,
became the first member of the president's inner circle to
publicly break ranks, voicing disappointment over his strategy in
Iraq in a New York Times interview.


His comments came amid mounting pressure on Bush as Democrats
maintained efforts to pull out US forces from the war, and
accusations of wrongdoing by Bush's top justice official,
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, in the firing of federal
prosecutors.


Dowd accused Bush of ignoring the will of the American people on
Iraq, the newspaper reported. He said Bush's Democratic rival for
the presidency in 2004, John Kerry, was right to call for US
withdrawal from the country.


Bush's camp reiterated his refusal to bow to the Democrats' bid
to pull out the troops. One of his senior advisers, Dan Bartlett,
branded it a political maneuver that would leave Americans open
to attack.


"A precipitous withdrawal, if we were to step back now ... would
weaken the United States' interests in the region and in the
world. It would make us more vulnerable to attack," Bartlett said
Sunday on ABC News.


Lawmakers last week passed a Democrat-sponsored bill that would
tie the withdrawal of troops in 2008 to a major war funding
package. Bush has vowed to veto the bill if it comes to him with
a timetable for a pullout.


Bartlett told the CBS television network that the party
"respectfully" disagreed with the comments of Dowd, who has a son
about to be deployed for service in Iraq.


Dowd defected from the Democrats to join the Bush camp and became
chief strategist in the president's 2004 re-election campaign. In
the interview, however, he accused Bush of failing to gain a
political consensus on the war.


"If the American public says they're done with something, our
leaders have to understand what they want," the newspaper quoted
Dowd as saying. "They're saying, 'Get out of Iraq.'"


"I think he's become more ... secluded and bubbled-in," he said
of Bush.


A poll published this weekend by Newsweek magazine put Bush's
approval rating at just 33 percent, with 57 percent of Americans
supporting a phased pullout of US troops from Iraq.


Democrats stuck by the withdrawal bill despite Bush's vow to
throw it out. "If he's going to veto, he's going to veto a
position that the vast majority of the American people hold,"
Democratic Senator Joseph R. Biden told Fox television network on
Sunday.


"Ultimately, politically, we have to give him money" for Iraq,
Democratic Senator Charles Rangel told NBC. "But we will
constantly remind him that no president in these great United
States can continue a war that the people do not support."


On another front, Republicans showed no signs of budging on the
White House's refusal to have its top officials testify under
oath over the sacked prosecutors.


Critics have said the dismissals were politically motivated and
some have called for Gonzales to resign, claiming he made
misleading statements over his role in the affair.


Bartlett reiterated Bush's proposal to have Gonzales testify to
Congress over the matter, but not let White House aides give
recorded testimony under oath.


Gonzales is to be questioned by the Senate Judiciary Committee on
the matter on April 17.


It is the biggest in a series of embarrassments for the Bush
administration in recent weeks.


Reports of grim conditions and poor out-patient assistance at the
Walter Reed Army Medical Center, which has treated many injured
Iraq veterans, led Bush to apologize on Friday to wounded US
troops.


And in another case involving the Justice Department, its FBI
investigation agency was reported to have breached rules on using
counter-terrorism powers to obtain confidential data on suspects.


"Bush is alone," wrote the veteran conservative columnist Robert
Novak in the Chicago Sun Times. He cited unnamed Republicans in
Congress accusing the administration of "incompetence,"
particularly over the Gonzales affair.


"In half a century, I have not seen a president so isolated from
his own party in Congress," Novak wrote.

