

Israel's chief of military intelligence warned on Sunday that
Hezbollah, Syria and Iran were preparing for a possible attack on
Tehran by Israel's main ally the United States as early as this
summer.


Amos Yadlin told the weekly cabinet meeting that Israel's three
principal foes were steeling their defences because they feared a
US attack on Iran, a senior official who attended the meeting
told AFP.


"Their preparation is defensive ahead of war," the official
quoted Yadlin as saying on condition of anonymity. "They fear a
war initiated by the Americans because they understand that there
might be an attack against Iran over the summer, but not by
Israel."


Although Yadlin insisted Israel had no intention of becoming
embroiled in such a conflict, he warned that any moves by the
Jewish state could be wrongly interpreted by its neighbours as a
sign of hostile intent.


"If the Americans launch an offensive in Iran, Hezbollah and
Syria will think the move had been coordinated with Israel and
would expect Israel to strike them too," another government
official at the meeting told AFP.


Yadlin said he feared a repeat of 1967 when sabre-rattling,
brinkmanship and miscalculations upset a fragile calm and plunged
the region into war.


"We might again find ourselves in a war no one wanted," Yadlin
told ministers. "Israel must be prepared and make sure its steps
will not lead to any miscalculation on the other side."


"Israel is closely following developments on this front out of a
concern that the three players might misinterpret certain steps
taken by Israel," Yadlin was quoted as saying.


Yadlin said Hezbollah was abiding by a UN-brokered ceasefire in
southern Lebanon, but alleged the Shiite militants were busily
rearming north of the Litani river -- out of the jurisdiction of
UN peacekeepers.


Israel fought a difficult 34-day war against Hezbollah last
summer after two soldiers were captured in a cross-border raid.
Around 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and 160 Israelis, mostly
soldiers, died in the conflict.


"Hezbollah has no intention of getting into a second round of
conflict," Yadlin was quoted as saying. "But it is busy
rebuilding its forces and has accelerated those efforts for fear
of a summer attack."


On Saturday, Iran's joint chief of staff warned Arab states
neighbouring Israel against what he called a "Zionist suicide
attack" this year.


"The Zionists plan to carry out a suicide plot in the summer,"
the semi-official Fars news agency quoted Major General Hassan
Firouzabadi as saying.


He predicted that an Israeli attack would start from Lebanon and
Syria and proceed to Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.

