

Pakistani tribesmen and foreign Al-Qaeda militants traded rocket
and heavy weapons fire in a tribal area bordering Afghanistan
Sunday, leaving 10 people dead, officials and witnesses said.


Fierce battles were fought between pro-government tribesmen and
militants near Wana, the main town of the lawless South
Waziristan district where more than 200 people have died in
fighting in the past two weeks, they said.


The clashes since late Saturday killed five foreign fighters and
five local tribesmen, while troops also shelled militants'
positions, they said.


Militants stormed a house of local journalist Din Mohammed near
Sheen Warsak, killing his father and 15-year-old brother, while
three attackers died when tribesmen fought back, relatives said.


Mohammed, who works for regional newspapers, is known for his
links with pro- government tribesmen whom he had put in touch
with journalists from other cities, they said.


The militants took four hostages but it was not immediately known
whether Mohammed was amongst them, they said.


Another three local tribesmen and two Al-Qaeda linked militants
were killed in separate clashes, also in Sheen Warsak, security
officials said.


Al-Qaeda linked militants are holding some 36 local tribesmen,
while two Uzbek women and a foreign militant were captured by
pro-government tribesmen, officials said.


Meanwhile, commander Mullah Nazir called a meeting of local
tribes for Monday to enlist up to 300 armed men as the fighting
escalates, according to a resident who heard announcements from
mosques' loudspeakers.


The fighting comes as President Pervez Musharraf, a key US ally,
faces international pressure to get tough on extremists who have
regrouped in Pakistan's tribal-run regions since 2001.


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told AFP late Friday that 56
people were killed on Thursday and Friday, 45 of them foreigners,
as fighting "intensified after peace talks failed."


Last week the government said clashes in South Waziristan left
160 people dead, again mostly Chechens and Uzbeks. Local sources
put the toll lower but the figures could not be independently
verified.


Officials say Pakistani troops were not involved in the fighting
which was triggered on March 19 after foreign militants "misused"
traditional tribal hospitality by killing local people and trying
to seize their land.


Hundreds of foreign militants took shelter in the area after the
fall of Taliban regime in US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late
2001.

