

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Sunday that he was
ready to attend a summit with Arab leaders to discuss a Saudi-
drafted peace plan and called on Arab nations to convene such a
meeting.


"I am announcing to the heads of the Arab states on this occasion
that if the Saudi king initiates a meeting of moderate Arab
states and invites me and the head of the Palestinian Authority
in order to present us the Saudi ideas, we will come to hear them
and we will be glad to voice ours," Olmert told a joint press
conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Jerusalem.


"I invite all the heads of the Arab states, including of course
the Saudi king whom I consider a very important leader, to hold
talks with us.


"I think it is time to make a momentous effort in order to give a
push to the diplomatic process," he said. "I am optimistic."


When asked what he would tell King Abdullah if such a meeting
were convened, Olmert said: "There are things you can say in a
personal meeting that cannot be announced publicly before they
have been ripened in a correct and orderly process to bear fruit.


"I do not intend to dictate to them what they should say and I am
sure they understand we will have things to say.


"It is not essential that the things they will say and the things
we will say will be identical at this stage, but the actual
holding of such a meeting, where they could present all their
ideas and we could present our ideas is certainly something worth
an effort."


At a summit in Riyadh last week, Arab leaders revived a five-
year-old peace plan that offers Israel normal relations if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and
allows for the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israel rejected the plan when it was first adopted but Olmert has
since said that with amendment it could serve as a basis for
negotiations.


During a visit to the region by US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice last week, US officials travelling with her confirmed that
efforts were underway to convene a meeting between Israel, pro-
Western Arab states and the key players in the Middle East peace
process.


But one US official acknowledged that it might be "premature" to
expect Saudi Arabia and fellow US ally the United Arab Emirates
to abandon their longstanding public policy of no contacts with
Israel just yet.


At the time, Olmert said he would be ready to attend if invited.

