

Britain's status as a track cycling superpower hit new heights
here Sunday when the team claimed a total seven gold from the 17
on offer at the world championships.


Less than 17 months ahead of the 2008 Olympics, Britain secured
11 medals in total - and plenty of hopes for becoming the nation
to beat in the Beijing velodrome.


To put their achievements in perspective, Australia, who won a
sensational five golds, two silver and two bronze at the 2004
Olympics in Athens, finished second in the medals table on only
two gold medals and six in total.


The Netherlands moved up to third place on the final day, with
six medals including Theo Bos's gold from the sprint event.


France, who won a spectacular seven golds and 10 medals in total
in Berlin in 1999 when only 12 finals were held, finished fourth
with one gold, two silver and a bronze.


With Beijing in the not too distant future, Australia and the
rest of track cycling's powers have been stunned.


But having begun an ambitious programme virtually from scratch 10
years ago, the Brits are now becoming increasingly used to
dominating the sport.


For them, it's all in a day's work.


"We're satisfied, things have gone to plan. We knew we had good
form at the Manchester World Cup, and we knew we had the
performances in us. It's just all come together," Britain's team
chief Dave Brailsford told AFP.


That was probably the understatement of the year, especially as
Australian head coach Martin Barras had earlier admitted: "We've
just had a righteous kick in the ass."


Anna Meares claimed Australia's first gold medal when she beat
her own world record in the women's 500 metre time trial to add
the world title to her Olympic crown.


Katherine Bates added a second gold on Sunday when she won the
women's points race.


Both victories helped cover the concerns after a series of poor
performances from Olympic sprint and keirin champion Ryan Bayley.


Britain's Victoria Pendleton, the bespectacled and unassuming
sprint specialist, was unstoppable in the sprint and keirin
events which take place over two tough days of competition.


"There's only the women's sprint in Beijing, it's the one I focus
on anyway," she said after beating Shuang Guo of China in the
keirin final.


The women's keirin and team sprint do not feature on the women's
Olympic programme, however that should not dim Britain's medal
prospects.


Scotland's Chris Hoy claimed his fourth world title in the
kilometre, but despite that event no longer being part of the
programme the 30-year-old from Edinburgh is likely to race the
team sprint, keirin and possibly the individual sprint.


After his well deserved keirin gold and kilo crown, the only
disappointment for Hoy was losing the team sprint gold to France
by just 0.002secs.


"It would have been the best ever championships for me if not for
that two thousandths of a second in the team sprint," said Hoy.


Even Frenchman Francois Pervis, who finished second behind Hoy in
the four-lap event, could not fail to be impressed.


"The British team have got their science and prepration right
down to a tee. They've got huge resources, but they work
enormously hard."


Britain's other gold medals came in the men's pursuit, which
England's reigning Olympic champion Bradley Wiggins dominated
with relative ease before helping the team to gold ahead of
Ukraine.


Britain also won medals through former Olympic rowing silver
medallist Rebecca Romero, who silver in the individual pursuit
only eight months after starting track racing.


Brailsford said the team are not stopping there.


"We'll be relentless now. There won't be any let-up. We want to
build on this, right through to Beijing and onto 2012. We've got
a good platform and we just have to move forward."

