

Bisher al-Rawi, an Iraqi held at the US base in Guantanamo Bay
for nearly five years, said Sunday his "nightmare is finally at
an end" in a statement issued after he returned to his residence
in Britain.


He also spoke of the "hopelessness" and "extreme isolation"
suffered by detainees at the US base in Cuba and asked to be
granted time with his family to come to terms with his "horrific
experience".


Al-Rawi was arrested in November 2002 while on a business trip to
Gambia.


His mother, who has campaigned for his release, claims he was
there to help his older brother Wahab set up a peanut oil
processing business.


He returned to his family in New Malden, southwest London, this
weekend.


"The hopelessness you feel in Guantanamo can hardly be
described," he said in a statement released through his lawyers.


"You are asked the same questions hundreds of times. Allegations
are made against you that are laughably untrue, but you have no
chance to prove them wrong. There is no trial, no fair legal
process.


"I was alleged to have participated in terrorist training in
Bosnia and Afghanistan. I've never been to Bosnia and the only
time I visited Afghanistan was thanks to the hospitality of the
CIA in an underground prison, the Dark Prison outside Kabul."


News of Al-Rawi's release was announced by Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett in a written statement to parliament last week.


Although he is not a British citizen, he was allowed to live in
Britain after his immediate family fled Iraq more than 20 years
ago when his father was arrested and tortured under former
dictator Saddam Hussein's regime.


Beckett added that his return would follow "extensive discussions
to address the security implications of Mr Al-Rawi's return."


Al-Rawi said there were still nine other British residents in the
Guantanamo camp, some of whom were on hunger strike to protest at
their extended periods in solitary confinement.


He called for them to be allowed to return to Britain soon.


Clive Stafford-Smith, his lawyer, has said that Al-Rawi was
showing signs of secure housing unit psychosis, which affects
prisoners held in high-security compounds, after spending four
years in detention.


His lawyer has described the conditions in which he was held as
"worse than any death row I've ever seen."

