

The fourth straight day of heavy fighting left a trail of
devastation in the Somali capital on Sunday as Ugandan
peacekeepers reported their first death and clan elders called
for a ceasefire.


Frightened residents fled their homes with anything they could
carry while others were too terrified to move on the streets
where Islamist rebels, clan gunmen and Ethiopian troops exchanged
weapons fire.


The Ugandan army said one of its soldiers was killed and five
others wounded when mortar shells pounded the presidential palace
Saturday, marking the first death among African Union
peacekeepers deployed in Somalia.


"We are not suprised by what took place, we expect those people
(insurgents) to do more of such things. We are not in any fear at
all," Ugandan military spokesman Major Felix Kulayigye told AFP
in Kampala.


Residents were pouring out of Mogadishu's Ali Kamin neighbourhood
and the stadium area, where the fighting between the Ethiopian
army and Islamist insurgents has been fierce.


In Geneva, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said some 10,000
people have fled the fighting over three days alone, bringing the
number of people displaced since February to nearly 100,000.


Up to 56,000 people fled the city in March, most of them since
March 21, while an estimated 40,000 had already fled Mogadishu in
February, UNHCR spokesman William Spindler told AFP.


"The exodus from the Somali capital continues and the figure is
expected to rise as people living close to the conflict area are
abandoning their homes due to mortar shells and fears that the
fighting will spread," he said.


An AFP correspondent saw the bodies of six civilians lying in the
street in the Somali capital. Fire from artillery and tanks had
destroyed homes in the stadium area.


"There is still fighting over here. There are tanks everywhere.
Shells are landing everywhere and this is very scary," Hussein
Ali, a resident of southern Mogadishu, told AFP.


The bodies of two soldiers could be seen on a street next to the
remains of an Ethiopian army truck. Nearby a phalanx of Ethiopian
tanks was in position on a crossroads not far from the charred
remains of seven civilian trucks.


According to a toll compiled by AFP from witnesses and hospital
sources at least 70 people had been killed by Sunday in the worst
fighting the city has seen in 15 years.


Residents said the death count could be much higher as other
areas remained inaccesible.


As shells crashed down on residential areas and sniper fire rang
out, elders from the dominant Hawiye clan made frantic calls for
a ceasefire to allow civilians to flee.


The elders, who held talks with Ethiopian commanders, said rival
sides should observe an unconditional truce and withdraw their
forces from frontline neighbourhoods.


"We call on both sides to stop the fire... and withdraw from the
frontlines four hours after the ceasefire is implemented," they
said in a statement.


"We ask the AU peacekeeping mission AMISOM to monitor the
implementation of this ceasefire."


Clan spokesman Ahmed Dirie said "there shall be no attacks
between the Ethiopians and the Hawiye." The Ethiopian army could
not be reached for comment.


Residents said a battalion of Ethiopian troops had entered
Somalia on Saturday through the border post of Beledweyne to
reinforce their colleagues.


The Ethiopians launched their offensive Thursday against the
remnants of an Islamist movement it helped the Somali government
topple earlier this year.


But despite being driven out of the capital in apparent
confusion, and pounded by US warplanes as they retreated into the
countryside, the Islamists have returned to the capital to stage
guerrilla-style attacks.


Some of the insurgent leaders have alleged links to Al-Qaeda and
the United States has warned that the terror group is hoping to
turn the failed east African country into a new base.


The latest fighting shattered a feeble six-day ceasefire with the
Hawiye clan which has controlled Mogadishu since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

