

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert dimissed as baseless Sunday
suggestions that Israel was working with the United States in
drawing up contingency plans for conflict with Iran.


"Declarations that there is an American plan to strike Iran that
is being coordinated with Israel which would at the same time
attack Syria and Lebanon is not familiar to me, and is a baseless
rumour," Olmert told a Jerusalem news conference.


"I hope no one takes action based on baseless rumours," he said.


Standing alongside German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Olmert
insisted Israel had no desire to see a fresh conflict in the
region.


"Israel is not planning an attack and does not wish for war, as
it did not want one in the past," he said.


Olmert's comments followed a briefing given to the Israeli
cabinet earlier Sunday by military intelligence chief Amos Yadlin
in which he set out his assessment of the likely reactions of
Iran's main regional allies, Syria and Hezbollah, to an
intensifying confrontation between Tehran and Washington.


"They fear a war initiated by the Americans because they
understand that there might be an attack against Iran over the
summer, but not by Israel," a senior government official quoted
Yadlin as telling cabinet ministers.


Although Yadlin insisted Israel had no intention of becoming
embroiled in such a conflict, he warned that any moves by the
Jewish state could be wrongly interpreted by its neighbours as a
sign of hostile intent.


"If the Americans launch an offensive in Iran, Hezbollah and
Syria will think the move had been coordinated with Israel and
would expect Israel to strike them too," another government
official at the meeting told AFP.


Yadlin said he was concerned that the region might inadvertently
stumble into a new conflict.


"We might again find ourselves in a war no one wanted," he told
ministers. "Israel must be prepared and make sure its steps will
not lead to any miscalculation on the other side.


"Israel is closely following developments on this front out of a
concern that the three players might misinterpret certain steps
taken by Israel."


Yadlin said Hezbollah was abiding by a UN-brokered ceasefire in
south Lebanon, but charged that the Shiite militants were busy
rearming north of the Litani river -- out of the jurisdiction of
UN peacekeepers.


Israel fought a difficult 34-day war against Hezbollah last
summer after two soldiers were captured in a cross-border raid.
Around 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and 160 Israelis, mostly
soldiers, died in the conflict.


"Hezbollah has no intention of getting into a second round of
conflict," Yadlin was quoted as saying. "But it is busy
rebuilding its forces and has accelerated those efforts for fear
of a summer attack."


On Saturday, Iran's joint chief of staff warned Arab states
neighbouring Israel against what he called a "Zionist suicide
attack" this year.


"The Zionists plan to carry out a suicide plot in the summer,"
the semi-official Fars news agency quoted Major General Hassan
Firouzabadi as saying.


He predicted that an Israeli attack would start from Lebanon and
Syria and proceed to Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.

