

Republican presidential hopeful Senator John McCain boasted about
shopping and chatting to Iraqis in a constantly bombed Baghdad
market on Sunday, adamant that the US troop surge is paying off.


Making a lightning trip to Iraq, McCain and three fellow
Republican senators told slightly incredulous journalists about
their "deeply moving" downtown walkabout, sipping tea and chewing
the fat with welcoming Iraqis.


"After landing at the airport we drove from the airport into
various parts of the city. We stopped at Bab Sharqi market where
we spent well over an hour shopping and talking with the local
people," said McCain.


"Things are better and there are encouraging signs. I have been
here many times over the years. Never have I been able to drive
from the airport. Never have I been able to go out into the city
as I was today," he boasted.


Hundreds of people have been killed in Iraq during the last week,
including 60 slaughtered in a similar Baghdad market on Thursday
evening, as car and suicide bombers have continued to defy the
new Iraqi-US security crackdown.


A security official told AFP earlier on Sunday that the Iraqi
death toll was up 15 percent last month. US commanders openly
admit there is no military solution to the lethal sectarian
warfare, insurgency and rampant kidnapping.


Yet Lindsey Graham, who as a Senator enjoys a six-figure salary,
boasted about spending five dollars in what is one of the most
favoured bombing sites in Baghdad and infamous as a nest of
criminals under Saddam Hussein.


"I brought five rugs for five bucks. People were engaging and
just a few weeks ago, hundreds of people, dozens of people were
killed in this same place," said Graham.


On a trip blatantly directed at American voters, the senators
were adamant that the new US crackdown was working and lashed out
at Democrats for trying to force a US withdrawal and the media
for not reporting the fuller picture.


"I'm not saying mission accomplished... it's long and it's hard.
and it's very, very difficult, very, very difficult task ahead of
us," said 70-year-old White House hopeful McCain, who was a
prisoner in Hanoi during the Vietnam war.


Although the deployment of 80,000 Iraqi and US forces has seen a
decline in sectarian execution-style killings, insurgents are
increasingly taking their battle to other towns and cities.


"I studied warfare. I'm a student of history. If you control the
capital city of a nation you have a significant advantage,"
countered McCain as one reporter giggled at the back.


"The American people are not getting the full picture of what's
happening here. They're not getting the full picture of the drop
in murders," he hammered, reeling off a list of positives he felt
the press were ignoring.


"The most deeply moving thing for me was to mix and mingle
unfettered among ordinary Iraqis and a seemingly endless street
market. To stop, to have chai tea, to haggle over the price of a
rug," chimed in Senator Mike Pence.


Yet journalists openly scoffed afterwards at what they considered
a public awareness exercise secured on the streets by massive US
security.


The senators admitted to "having protection", driving in armoured
Humvees and keeping their body armour on, although saying they
were encouraged by accompanying US commander in Iraq General
David Petraeus to remove their helmets.


McCain's visit came a week after he told Bill Bennett's Morning
in America radio show that there were parts of Baghdad where they
could take a walk, in comments derided by a CNN journalist based
in Iraq as a "Neverland".


The Democratic-led US Congress last week conditioned fresh
funding for the war to withdrawing most US combat forces from
Iraq by March 31, 2008.


"If you set a deadline now, it will undercut everything positive
that's going on," said Graham. "The president will veto any bill
with a deadline."


McCain, who was last week placed well behind his main rival,
former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani, in the race for the 2008
Republican nomination, has long supported the war and argued that
more soldiers were needed.

