

Three US Republican members of Congress on Sunday told Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad to prevent anti-American fighters from
infiltrating Iraq, in a rare encounter between the two countries.


Frank Wolf of Virginia, Joseph Pitts of Pennsylvania and Robert
Aderholt of Alabama were in Damascus ahead of a planned visit by
US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi whose inclusion of Syria on her
Middle East tour was condemned by the White House.


In a statement released by the US embassy in Damascus, the
lawmakers said they had also repeated their demands at meetings
with Syrian businessmen, religious figures and opposition leader
Riad Seif.


"In all our meetings... we raised the issue of stopping foreign
fighters who are killing American soldiers and innocent Iraqis
from entering Iraq through Syria, ending support for Hezbollah
and Hamas, recognising Israel right to exist in peace and
security, and ceasing interfering in Lebanon," it said.


Washington, which accuses Syria of helping destabilise
neighbouring Iraq, supporting groups labelled terrorist by the US
State Department and interfering in neighbouring Lebanon, has cut
contact with Damascus since the February 2005 murder of Lebanon's
former prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


The killing was widely blamed on Syria despite its insistence
that it was not involved.


Explaining their visit to Damascus, the three lawmakers said: "We
came because we believe there is an opportunity for dialogue."


Syria's official news agency SANA said the US delegation had
discussed with Assad "the situation in the region, particularly
in Iraq."


The White House has denounced this week's Damascus visit by
Pelosi -- a determined opponent of Republican President George W.
Bush's Iraq war policies -- and warned she may hand Assad a
symbolic diplomatic victory.


"Assad probably really wants people to come and have a photo
opportunity and have tea with him and have discussions about
where they're coming from, but we do think that it's a really bad
idea," said spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Democratic lawmakers travelling with Pelosi, who was in Israel on
Sunday, include House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Tom
Lantos and House Government Reform Committee chairman Henry
Waxman and Keith Ellison, the first Muslim elected to the US
Congress.

