

Robbie Keane took advantage of a controversial penalty decision
to give Tottenham a 1-0 win against Reading on Sunday.


Keane struck from the spot just before half-time at White Hart
Lane after referee Alan Wiley ruled that Greg Halford had
deliberately handled as he tried to clear on the edge of the
area.


Television replays suggested Wiley's decision was harsh on the
Reading defender as the contact looked accidental. But Keane
stroked home the penalty to lift Martin Jol's side into sixth
place and keep them on course for a UEFA Cup spot.


Spurs midfielder Jermaine Jenas was convinced Wiley got it right
and said: "I thought he (Halford) moved his hand towards the
ball. Obviously the Reading lads think differently but I thought
it was a good decision."


Reading manager Steve Coppell added: "I've seen it on video since
and it hit his hand for sure, but the players are saying the
referee turned down the first appeal and then gave it in an
almost apologetic way.


"If you say it is a penalty every time it hits a hand then we
could have had one in the second half with (Michael) Dawson, so
we feel a little bit hard done by."


Reading had felt slighted by Jol when he claimed that his side
should not be losing to "teams like Reading" after their 3-1
defeat at the Madejski Stadium in November.


Coppell has used those comments to inspire his players, but
Tottenham began as if determined to underline Jol's words.


They could have been three goals ahead in the first 12 minutes.
First Steed Malbranque hit the outside of a post from Aaron
Lennon's pass in the third minute.


Then Keane should have scored when Dimitar Berbatov chested
Lennon's cross into his path, but the Irish striker's shot was
too close to Marcus Hahnemann.


Reading were under siege and it took another good stop from
Hahnemann to frustrate Spurs. Malbranque's pass gave Berbatov a
clear run on goal, but the Reading keeper was quickly off his
line to block the shot.


Those spurned chances nearly came back to haunt Spurs. Steve
Coppell's visitors should have hit them with a sucker punch when
Glen Little's cross picked out Leroy Lita just six yards out, but
the striker could only direct his diving header onto the far
post.


That near-miss sparked Reading into life and Dave Kitson forced
Paul Robinson to save with a shot on the turn after Spurs failed
to clear a free-kick.


But Reading's attacking approach left them open at times and
Jol's side always looked capable of conjuring a breakthrough.


When their goal did arrive in the 40th minute, it came in
controversial circumstances. Keane miscontrolled in the penalty
area and the ball bounced up onto Halford's arm. The contact by
the Reading debutant was inadvertent, but a spot-kick was given.


Keane wasn't going to squander such a golden chance and the Spurs
captain confidently drove the penalty past Hahnemann for his 15th
goal of the season.


Hahnemann made sure Reading were still in the game at the
interval when he clutched Berbatov's free-kick. However, a hip
injury forced the American stopper off at half-time, with Adam
Federici on to replace him.


Federici was beaten by Jenas just before the hour mark, but the
midfielder's strike was ruled out for offside.


Reading appealed in vain for a penalty of their own when Dawson
blocked a cross with a combination of arm and chest.


Tottenham dominated possession for long periods and Malbranque
flashed a drive over from the edge of the area before Federici
kept out efforts from Berbatov and Jermain Defoe.


England striker Defoe, who had come on for Keane, was denied a
goal in the final minutes when he was ruled offside after beating
Federici with a close range finish, but Spurs had done enough.

