

A helicopter carrying three European extreme skiers, among them a
Swiss pioneer of the sport, has gone missing in northern Indian-
administered Kashmir, officials said Friday.


The Indian Airforce has been alerted and was looking for the
helicopter, the head of the Himalayan region's tourism department
said.


"The helicopter has gone missing in the Sonamarg area,"
department head Farooq Shah told AFP. The area is about 100
kilometers (62 miles) northeast of the Indian Kashmir summer
capital of Srinagar.


The heliski trip was being led by Sylvain Saudan, a Swiss
national, officials said. The other two skiers were identified as
a man and a woman of either Swiss or French nationality.


Further details, including on the helicopter crew, were not
immediately available.


Saudan is recognised as a pioneer of extreme skiing, and has been
organising paid heliski trips to the revolt-hit Himalayan region
for the past two decades.


He has also survived two helicopter crashes in the same Sonamarg
area, most recently in 2000.


"He is in love with Kashmir. He doesn't earn much by organising
such trips, he just has a passion about this place," said
Mohammed Ashraf, a former head of Kashmir's tourism department
and Saudan's close friend.


Saudan's trips involved departing from Srinagar in the morning,
returning by midday for refueling before making another return
trip to the mountains.


"When it did not return today, we were worried and informed the
police," an official at Srinagar's Grand Palace hotel told AFP.


Heliskiing involves using a helicopter to reach isolated peaks
for off-piste descents away from the crowds of established, lift-
served resorts.


Hundreds of Western skiers and snowboarders converge on Indian
Kashmir each year, even though the region has been wracked by an
insurgency against Indian rule since 1989.


The area is reputed as having some of the best extreme and off-
piste skiing in the world, accessible either by helicopter or
from the resort of Gulmarg -- situated just a two-hour drive from
Srinagar.

