

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf personally apologised for a
raid by riot police on a private television station Friday, in a
rare live telephone interview with the channel.


Footage showed police entering the office of Geo Television in
Islamabad during violent protests over the sacking of the
country's chief justice and breaking windows and smashing
equipment.


"I would like to apologise, such an incident should not have
happened. The culprits must be identified and punished today,"
Musharraf told one of the channel's anchormen.


Military ruler Musharrar said he would be "personally involved"
in taking action following the incident, adding that he had
already given orders for the station to be compensated.


"Safeguarding human rights is our mandate. I therefore strongly
condemn this violation. This is such a big incident which should
not have happened," he said.


Musharraf said it was possible the attack was part of a
"conspiracy" against him, adding: "In my view this is a sabotage
of the whole process. I would say it is a sabotage of whatever we
stand for, whatever we are doing."


However Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao earlier blamed the
incident on activists from an Islamic group, saying they grabbed
a policeman and took him into the Geo building, leading police to
give chase.


The incident came a day after Geo said Pakistani regulators had
ordered it to stop airing its flagship daily news programme
"Today with Kamran Khan" until further orders.


"The police damaged our infrastructure. This attack on the
freedom of the press is unprecedented in the 60-year history of
this country," Khan, who presents the programme, said after the
police incident on Friday.


The offices of The News, an English language-daily, and the Urdu-
language Jang, which are both part of the same media group as
Geo, were also damaged, sources at the group said.


Another channel accused the government of fresh attempts to
censor their coverage of the row over Chief Justice Iftikhar
Mohammad Chaudhry, whose sacking by Musharraf on March 16 sparked
the protests.


"We have been told not to make Chaudhry a hero and to avoid undue
coverage of lawyers' protests," said Talat Hussain, head of the
news section of Aaj television said earlier Friday.


The station had been threatened with removal from the airwaves or
even losing its licence, he added.


Irfan Ahmed, a cable operator in the southern port city of
Karachi, said he had been told to "cut off news channels which
violate the instructions."


Media watchdog Reporters Without Borders this week slammed
Pakistan for allegedly suspending broadcasts by Geo and Aaj after
they screened footage on Monday of clashes between police and
lawyers.


The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists denounced the
government's moves.


"We call on President Musharraf to live up to his stated
commitment to freedom of the press and stop what appears to be
retaliation against Geo TV for critical coverage," said Bob
Dietz, the group's Asia programme coordinator.

