

The US Defense Department on Friday reaffirmed its finding that a
British soldier's death in a "friendly fire" attack in Iraq was
"a tragic accident" after a British coroner ruled it was
criminal.


British coroner Andrew Walker said he found "no lawful authority"
for the air attack on a convoy in March 2003 that killed Lance
Corporal Matty Hull. Walker criticized the US military for not
cooperating with the inquest.


A Pentagon statement extended "deepest sympathies" to Hull's
family but defended the finding of its own investigation and said
it had shared all information developed during the probe with
British military authorities.


"In addition, that report -- with the portions that are not
releasable for security, privacy or other reasons redacted -- was
provided to the MoD (Ministry of Defense) for release to the Hull
family," it said.


"The US government has worked with the UK MoD to share
information with the coroner that was not protected from release
because it is classified or otherwise protected information," it
said.


It said its investigation was "thorough and conducted according
to the same processes and same standards as would be used in the
investigation of a friendly fire incident involving the death of
an American military member.


"The investigation determined that the incident took place in a
complex combat environment, the pilots followed applicable
procedures and processes for engaging targets, believing they
were engaging enemy targets, and that this was a tragic
accident," it said.


The high-profile inquest, in Oxford, south central England, heard
how the pilot of one of two US A-10 "tankbuster" planes swooped
and opened fire on Hull's clearly-marked armored vehicle convoy
in southern Iraq on March 28, 2003.


"It was unlawful because there was no lawful reason for it and in
that respect it was criminal," Walker said.


Hull's widow, Susan, on Thursday made a direct appeal to US
President George W. Bush for help in revealing exactly what
happened on the day of the attack.

