

A bus ran over two young Bangladesh cricketers, including an
international allrounder, killing both of them in a road accident
in the southwestern city of Khulna Friday, police said.


The bus ran over Manjarul Islam Rana and his team-mate Sajedul
Islam Shetu after their motorcycle lost control, hit an electric
pole and crashed on the main road near Khulna city, local police
chief Fazlul Haq said.


Rana, who played 25 one-day matches and six Tests for the
Bangladesh national team, died on the spot while his team-mate, a
regular on the country's first class cricket circuit, died on the
way to hospital, he said.


"They were going to a restaurant outside the city to have their
lunch after Rana led his team to victory in the Bangladesh
Cricket Board challenge trophy at Khulna stadium," he added.


In the match Rana, aged 22, took two wickets and scored an
unbeaten 63 runs to lead his side to a seven-wicket win.


Left-arm orthodox spinner and left-handed batsman Rana failed to
book a place in the World Cup following a slump in form in the
last year.


Bangladesh's World Cup squad, currently in Trinidad preparing for
a match against India on Saturday, was in mourning following the
deaths.


"I am deeply shocked. He was our team-mate and we played together
for a long time," said Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar of
Manjarul who played six Tests and 25 one-day internationals.


"All the boys are really shocked and upset. Some of them also
cried because he was very close to us. I think he was supposed to
tour Sri Lanka with the Bangladeshi 'A' team. It is a very sad
news."


Rana made his ODI debut in November 2003 at the age of 19 and
took the wicket of England skipper Michael Vaughan with his third
ball. He played his last one-day match against Kenya in Dhaka
last March.


His best performances in one-dayers were a brace of four-wicket
hauls to help level the series against Zimbabwe in 2005.


He was recalled for the recently concluded Bangladesh A team's
home series against England A and the was due to play in the
forthcoming away A-team series against Sri Lanka.


He made his Test debut at Harare against Zimbabwe in 2003-04.


Bangladeshi batsman Javed Omar said: "It's a very sad news for
Bangladesh cricket and for me because he was very close to me.
May God give strength to his family. It's very unfortunate."


Opening batsman Shahriar Nafees added: "It's very shocking. We
just could not believe it. He was a very nice guy and very close
to our hearts. It's very sad."

