

The British stock market will seek firmer ground next week
following recent volatile trade, with finance minister Gordon
Brown revealing what is expected to be his final annual budget
before parliament.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares ended at 6,130.60
points on Friday, down 114.6 points or 1.84 percent from a week
earlier.


The FTSE had gained 2.1 percent the previous week, following a
4.46-percent slump in the final week of February.


Global stock markets struggled on Friday to recover from the
latest equities sell-off as anxious investors assessed the
outlook for the US economy.


Another rout on global equity markets, sparked by fears of a
meltdown in the US housing market, was paused on Thursday by a
one-day rally in the United States, Europe and Asia.


However, markets in London, Frankfurt and Paris finished Friday
with slight losses as cautious trading prevailed.


Next week, meanwhile, sees finance chief Brown unveil what is
widely regarded as his final annual budget before taking over
from Prime Minister Tony Blair later this year.


Brown, the leading contender to replace Blair who is stepping
down after a decade as Britain's leader, is forecast to focus on
the environment and education when he unveils his 2007-2008
spending plan before parliament.


Other key economic releases next week include retail sales data
for February and minutes from the Bank of England's latest
meeting earlier this month.


The central bank had held its key interest rate at 5.25 percent
in March, sticking to its wait-and-see approach after British
annual inflation fell heavily in February.


Meanwhile, analysts are hoping that next week will bring calm to
the London market as investors snap up bargains following the
renewed equities downturn.


Earlier this year many global indices had enjoyed multi-year high
points after a rally that lasted about four years.


"We have no reason for thinking that the sell-off in equity
markets is anything more than a correction," said Brewin Dolphin
analyst Mike Lenhoff.


He added: "Equity markets will have their good days and their bad
ones but we reckon that any further downside presents a buying
opportunity."

