

The new Palestinian unity government provides a "golden
opportunity" for lasting peace in the Middle East, but will be
scuppered by Western powers and Israel, Gulf Arab media said on
Friday.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and Palestinian prime
minister-designate Ismail Haniya on Thursday finalised an
agreement on a national unity government combining their rival
Fatah and Hamas factions.


The Saudi daily Al-Watan greeted the deal with optimism, saying
it gave Israel "a golden opportunity to achieve a lasting and
comprehensive peace in the region."


Peace, based on Israel's withdrawal from Arab lands seized in the
1967 war, is now possible because the new government "represents
the overwhelming majority of the Palestinian people and is in a
position to deliver on any commitments required by a peace deal,"
the paper wrote.


Arab leaders are due to hold a summit in the Saudi capital,
Riyadh, at the end of the month. The paper said the Arab League
is expected to re-endorse a plan agreed in 2002 that would
recognise Israel and establish normal ties with her in return for
a full Israeli withdrawal to the June 4, 1967 borders.


Al-Watan said US hunger for foreign policy success following its
failure in Iraq, coupled with Europe's renewed appetite for
diplomacy in the region, boost prospects for lasting peace.


But a note a scepticism was struck elsewhere in the oil-rich Gulf
region.


The United Arab Emirates' Al-Khaleej predicted that both Israel
and Western nations would seek to derail the Hamas-Fatah cabinet.


Israel would try to keep the Palestinian government "busy with
its differences" by allowing some ministers to do their jobs
while hindering others, the newspaper said.


The United States would exacerbate disputes inside the
Palestinian government "through its demands that serve Israeli
goals," and the European Union would impose debilitating
conditions, the newspaper added.


It urged the unity government to concentrate on day-to-day
political affairs until it formulates a "unified programme" that
would end Israeli occupation and restore Palestinian rights.


In Lebanon, the leftist opposition daily As-Safir said both
Palestinian factions had surmounted great obstacles placed in
their way on the road to the accord.


"Notably, they avoided the 'mines' placed on the path, by Israel
from nearby and by the United States from afar," it said.


"Counting on foreign states does not help to build a nation," As-
Safir said. It added that the Palestinians were able to reach
agreement because each party made concessions, "even though the
government will be able to exercise no more than municipal
powers" because of Israeli politics.

