

England captain Mike Catt has backed fellow centre Mathew Tait to
purge any memories of his nightmarish Test debut in Cardiff two
years ago when he takes to the Millennium Stadium on Saturday.


Tait made his debut under former coach Andy Robinson against
Wales in 2005, the year the Welsh claimed the Grand Slam.


Then on the eve of his 19th birthday, Tait was upended a few
times by opposite number Gavin Henson during Wales's 11-9 win in
Cardiff and struggled to make his stamp on the game.


Robinson removed Tait from the fray and then dropped him
altogether, his axing coming to symbolise the then-coach's regime
often criticised for its short- termism and lack of clear
strategic planning in the lead-up to next year's World Cup in
France.


But while Henson's star has waned throughout the season due to
lack of fitness and form conspicuous by its absence, Tait has
revived his international prospects, notably after starring in
the England Sevens side that won silver at the Commonwealth Games
in Melbourne last year.


Catt has no doubts about Tait's ability and was quick to stress
that what happened in Cardiff in February 2005 was water under
the bridge.


"It's very different from two years ago," Catt said ahead of
Saturday's final Six Nations game that sees England, along with
France and Ireland, in with a chance of winning the tournament.


"Tait's much stronger now. He's also very quick, an awesome
talent. And I think he'll go well," said the South African-born
veteran.


"He's playing for Newcastle (in the English Premiership), who
play a very similar style to England. And he's surrounded by the
best players in the country.


Catt said the Welsh midfield of Tom Shanklin and Gareth Thomas,
recalled to the side after Stephen Jones' injury saw James Hook
move from inside centre to outside-half, would be troubled by
Tait's presence.


"I'm sure Shanklin and Thomas will be thinking that Taity's got
the speed on them."


Tait, whose start to this season was delayed by a cartilage
operation, replaces Mike Tindall, out with a knee infection, and
features in an England backline that promises to develop into
something special.


Outside-half Toby Flood, with fellow youngster Shane Geraghty on
the bench, is inside Tait, with a speedy back three consisting of
Jason Robinson and David Strettle on the wings, with proven
finisher Mark Cueto at full-back.


England will start the match at the Millennium Stadium as
favourites after their impressive 26-18 win over France at
Twickenham last weekend, with their sole loss of the tournament
coming in the record 43-13 defeat to Ireland.


For Wales, a win would go someway in assuaging an awful
tournament in which they have lost all of their four games.


A whitewash would be only the second time in Welsh rugby history
that the team has finished European rugby's showpiece tournament
without a win.


The pressure is surely on coach Gareth Jenkins, who has guided
Wales to just two wins in 13 outings, against Canada and the
Pacific Islands, and has failed to beat a top-10 ranked country.

