

Italian Foreign Minister Massimo d'Alema on Friday asked for more
time to negotiate the release of La Repubblica journalist Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, just hours after the Taliban offered to extend
their ultimatum.


"The complex affair... needs time," D'Alema told reporters,
according to the ANSA news agency, as an Afghan news agency
reported that Mastrogiacomo's driver had been executed.


"Even the other side has perceived that an initiative is under
way to find a solution," D'Alema said, without naming the
Taliban. "I want the other side to understand that the situation
needs a reasonable time to develop and obtain the desired
results."


The Taliban told AFP earlier Friday it could allow more time for
talks to free Mastrogiacomo, 52, who was kidnapped with the
driver and a guide in southern Afghanistan on March 4.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah told AFP last Saturday the
Italian would be killed in seven days unless two captured Taliban
spokesmen were released and Italy set a date for the withdrawal
of its 2,000 troops in Afghanistan.


"The ultimatum is over," Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP
by telephone Friday.


However, the Taliban had told "the Italians we are in contact
with" that the deadline could be extended. "We told them if you
request for time via media, we will give you more time," he said.


"There has been some progress in negotiations and if our demands
are accepted, we will release the journalist."


In a recorded message obtained by Pajhwok on Thursday,
Mastrogiacomo begged for negotiations for his release.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days,"
Mastrogiacomo is heard saying in the poor quality recording,
which was forwarded to AFP.


"Tell them I'm alive. Today is the 13th, and if they fail to do
anything till the 16th, it will create problems for me," the
reporter says.


D'Alema said Thursday his government was not negotiating with the
Taliban but that there were "humanitarian sources which maintain
the contacts."

