

EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn voiced concern here Friday
over stalled police reforms in Bosnia and warned the country's
leaders against nationalist rhetoric.


"I am concerned and disappointed for the lack of agreement on the
police reform," Rehn told Bosnian deputies during a visit to
Sarajevo.


Bosnian leaders this week ended another round of negotiations on
the reforms designed to unify the war-torn Balkan country's
police forces without any breakthrough.


"Without the agreement there will be no Stabilisation and
Association Agreement (SAA)," he said, referring to the accord
seen as the first step on the long path toward full European
Union membership.


The EU has made police reforms and war crimes cooperation key
conditions for Bosnia to seal the agreement.


Bosnia completed a final round of negotiations on the SAA in
December but was asked by Brussels to complete the desired
reforms before being allowed to sign the SAA accord.


"The politicians who are responsible for delays in the reforms
and blockage of the government are preventing Bosnia-Hercegovina
to realize its European aspirations," Rehn said.


He also warned Bosnian leaders to refrain from using "nationalist
rhetoric."


"Your country benefits nothing from a return to the 1990s
mentality," he said, referring to the political climate here
ahead of the 1992-1995 war which saw the worst atrocities in
Europe since World War II.


Serb politicians who generally oppose the strengthening of
central institutions insist on retaining control of the police in
Republika Srpska, while Croat and Muslim leaders want the forces
to be unified and put under the authority of the state.


The two main figures on Bosnia's political scene following
elections in October last year are presidency member Haris
Silajdzic, a Muslim, and Bosnian Serb Prime Minister Milorad
Dodik.


Silajdzic and Dodik use nationalist rhetoric, and, although their
parties form a coalition, they oppose each other on almost every
issue.


"Do you really want to miss the European train by quarrelling
endlessly at the station? That is what is now happening," Rehn
told the MPs.


The EU enlargement chief also met with the members of Bosnia's
tripartite presidency and the country's prime minister, Nikola
Spiric.


Bosnia and Serbia remain the only two of the six former Yugoslav
republics without any contractual relationship with the EU, after
Montenegro initialed its SAA agreement on Thursday.

