

Thousands of Iraqi Kurds, some of them still suffering after-
effects, observed a minute's silence Friday to mark the 19th
anniversary of a gas attack on Halabja town by Saddam Hussein's
forces.


Residents of Halabja paid homage to those who died at the town's
Martyrs' Cemetery and spent the day visiting their families and
surviving victims.


On March 16, 1988, Saddam's troops bombed Halabja with chemical
gases, killing 5,000 Kurds in one of the biggest military
operations against the people of northern Kurdistan during the
Iran-Iraq war.


Kamel Abdel Qadir, founder of the Halabja Victims' Society, a
non-profit organisation representing victims, said the government
was doing little to help those still suffering 19 years after
being exposed to lethal gases.


"The latest report of the local ministry of health indicates that
68 people need treatment," said Qadir.


Due to the "carelessness" of the local government, two women
recently died from the effects of the gas attack, Qadir added.


Kwaer Anwar, 60, who lost her three daughters in the attack,
bemoaned the fate of the town, saying that even today it is being
forgotten.


"Saddam was executed, his regime is ruined, and yet years after
the liberation of the Kurdistan region Halabja gets no
construction projects and sees no economic development," said
Anwar.


"Half of the buildings which were destroyed during the campaign
are still the same after 19 years."


Anwar complained that the town has no "decent hospital, not
enough water or electricity. The officials have made many
promises but none has been delivered."


Awat Karim, 34, another resident of Halabja, hit out at what he
called government apathy towards the town and victims of the
poison attack.


"My uncle and older brother are lying on beds waiting for death.
I am angry because government officials have lied to us. They are
slowly dying from the effects of the chemical weapons," said
Karim, a shopkeeper.


The Halabja attack was allegedly masterminded by Ali Hassan al-
Majid, also known as "Chemical Ali".


He is currently on trial with five other members of Saddam's
regime for allegedly carrying out similar attacks on thousands of
Kurdish villagers during the 1988 Anfal military campaign.


He is expected to be tried separately for the Halabja attack at
the end of the current trial.

