

Two human rights activists convicted of embezzlement in a
controversial trial have been dismissed from Congo's committee on
financial transparency, an anti- corruption group said Friday.


Christian Mounzeo and Brice Makosso had been barred from an
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) meeting
chaired by Prime Minister Isidore Mvouba on March 1, said the
organisation Publish What You Pay (PCQVP).


The two men -- who had campaigned for greater transparency in how
Congo's oil revenues are distributed -- last year received
12-month suspended sentences after being convicted of
embezzlement.


Mounzeo and Makosso were members of PCQVP, a pressure group which
is critical of the government's obscurity surrounding oil
revenues.


The World Bank has said that Brazzaville needs to tackle
corruption in its oil sector in order to qualify for massive debt
reduction.


World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz said a year ago that while
the west African country's oil sector generated two billion
dollars annually, 70 percent of its population live on less than
one dollar per day.


Meanwhile Congo's National Oil Company on Friday said it was
stopping the sale of crude oil to the United States in order to
prevent the seizure of its cargos and revenues by US courts.


Congo's authorities say that private investment firms are buying,
often at low prices, the debts of companies in difficulty, then
later asking courts to seize their accounts and assets.


"From the moment the fund vultures obtained permission from
American courts to allow them to seize our revenues ... it has
become difficult for us to sell crude oil on the American
market," said Congolese official Christel Sassou Nguesso.


He added that the country would now focus on the Latin American
and Asian markets instead.


Congolese President Denis Sassou Nguesso last month complained
that companies were asking for reimbursements of up to 150
million dollars (113 million euros) after buying only 1.5 million
of debt.


Brazzaville exported some 31,000 barrels of oil a day on average
to the United States in 2005.

