

Eleven contenders passed the first hurdle in the French
presidential campaign on Friday after securing the 500
endorsements needed to stand in the race.


But a question mark hung over farmer-activist Jose Bove who said
he may be four or five signatures short of the number required to
get on the ballot for the April and May votes.


"According to our calculations, we should have the 500
signatures, but we don't have the official confirmation," Bove
told a news conference, saying his candidacy hinged on "four or
five signatures that could go either way."


Under rules designed to weed out frivolous candidacies,
challengers for the French presidency must have the public
backing of 500 out of some 42,000 elected officials, including
the country's 36,500 mayors.


The signed forms had to be presented at the Paris offices of the
Constitutional Council, the body that supervises the election, by
6:00 pm (1700 GMT) Friday.


The Council will verify the signatures over the weekend and
announce an official list of candidates on Monday, five weeks
ahead of the first round of voting on April 22. A second round
between the two top vote-getters is scheduled for May 6.


For frontrunners Nicolas Sarkozy of the governing rightwing
party, Socialist Segolene Royal and centrist Francois Bayrou,
collecting the 500 signatures was a mere formality.


Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen announced earlier this week
that he had succeeded in collecting the sponsorships after
accusing rivals of intimidating mayors in a campaign aimed at
blocking his presidential bid.


Le Pen, who stunned the nation when he qualified for the second
round of voting against Jacques Chirac in 2002, got a leg up from
Sarkozy who last week urged mayors to back him and allow the full
spectrum of ideas to be represented in the election.


In 2002, 16 candidates took part, a record in modern French
politics.


The large number helped reduce the score of the leading
contenders and was a factor in Le Pen's shock success in making
it past the first round.


The other definite candidates are the communist Marie-George
Buffet, nationalist Philippe de Villiers, the three Trotskyists
Gerard Schivardi, Arlette Laguiller and Olivier Besancenot, and
the Green Party's Dominique Voynet.


The candidate of the hunting lobby, Frederic Nihous, succeeded in
getting his name on the ballot, presenting 655 signatures a few
hours before the deadline.


But dissident Gaullist Nicolas Dupont-Aignan fell 50 signatures
short of the required number.


At the outset, some 46 hopefuls including many single-issue
candidates had thrown their hats in the ring.


The latest poll shows Sarkozy would win a run-off vote with 52
percent of votes against 48 percent for Royal, but the first
round is shaping up as a hotly- contested battle between Sarkozy,
Royal and Bayrou.


Bayrou, whose public approval ratings have climbed spectacularly
over the past two months, is credited with 23 percent of votes in
the first round compared with 25.5 percent for Royal and 27
percent of Sarkozy, according to the TNS- Sofres poll released
Thursday.


Sarkozy on Friday lost the support of Equal Opportunities
Minister Azouz Begag who said he would back Bayrou in the vote.


The minister, who is of Algerian descent, said Sarkozy's recent
call to create a ministry of immigration and national identity
was "indecent".


Royal meanwhile faced a public-relations problem as her Socialist
Party's former economics chief prepared to release a damning book
describing her as a glory- hunting populist, excerpts of which
were published in newspapers and on the Internet.


"In all conscience I do not think that Segolene Royal should
become president of the Republic. I do not wish it for my
country. I fear it for my children," Eric Besson writes in "Who
knows Madame Royal?".


Besson resigned from Royal's campaign last month, angry that his
advice over costing her manifesto pledges was being ignored. A
week later he announced his resignation from the party.

