

The Nigerian government said Friday it has placed security forces
on "full alert" to prevent troubles around the country's election
next month and President Olusegun Obasanjo departure from office.


"The security and law enforcement agencies have been placed on
full alert to support the determination of government and all
patriotic Nigerians to defend democracy and ensure a successful
transition to a new democratic administration on May 29," a
statement from Obasanjo's office said


A presidential election is to be held on April 21 and Obasanjo is
to stand down on May 29.


"The federal government will not tolerate any attempt from any
quarter to willfully create conditions that will make it
impossible for the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC) to conduct free, fair, transparent and credible elections
as scheduled on April 14 and April 21," it added.


The government will deploy all the powers and forces available to
it to guarantee the peaceful and secure conditions necessary for
the general elections to go ahead as planned, it said.


"No individual or group should test the will of government on
this matter," it warned.


The government said that it was aware of plans by unnamed
individuals to "sponsor protests" and "engender violence and
mayhem" across Nigeria through the propagation of falsehoods and
religious intolerance.


The stern statement was issued as Vice President Atiku Abubakar
went to court to challenge the INEC's omission of his name from
the list of 24 candidates who will contest April 21 presidential
election.


INEC on Thursday omitted Abubakar's name from the list in a move
which is perceived as tantamount to his disqualification.


Abubakar, 60, is the candidate of the opposition Action Congress
(AC).


INEC argues that Abubakar was indicted on corruption charges in
September 2006 and is therefore barred from running by law.


Abubakar's indictment has been controversial, with his supporters
saying the whole case was politically motivated by his foes
within Nigeria.


The corruption case against the vice president came after he fell
out with Obasanjo, and the latter vowed that Abubakar would not
succeed him.


The April 21 poll will be Nigeria's first civilian-to-civilian
transition.

