

Attacks against US and Iraqi troops surged in Diyala province
northeast of the capital after a massive crackdown by security
forces in nearby Baghdad, commanders said Friday.


Around 90,000 US and Iraqi troops are deployed in the capital to
rein in insurgent and sectarian violence, and many insurgents
appear to have switched their focus to other provinces.


Colonel David W. Sutherland from 3rd Brigade Combat team, 1st
Cavalary Division in Diyala, said: "There is a rise in attacks
against coalition and Iraqi forces in Diyala while sectarian
violence has reduced."


Sutherland said indirect fire attacks -- mortars and rockets --
against troops rose to 98 in February 2007 from 28 in July,
direct fire attacks rose to 153 from 90, while at the same time
sectarian attacks fell significantly.


"In July, 124 murders were reported and in February, 16 murders
were reported. Sectarian violence has fallen by 70 percent," he
said, stressing the reduction of sectarian attacks in the
confessionally divided province.


Speaking to reporters in Baghdad by video conference from the
provincial capital of Baquba, Sutherland said the attacks are
being carried out by Al-Qaeda, rogue militias and Sunni insurgent
groups.


"Terrorists are trying to disrupt operations of coalition forces
and taking the fight off innocent civilians to security forces,"
he said.


In the face of the rising number of attacks, the US military
recently boosted its troop strength in Diyala by despatching a
battalion from the Stryker Brigade -- infantry equipped with
17-tonne armoured cars.


"It was not surprising that we received the reinforcements as we
had started planning for it several weeks ago," he said,
suggesting that a crackdown in Baghdad would activate insurgent
attacks in other provinces.


Major General Shakir Halail Husain, commander of the 5th Iraqi
Divison stationed in Diyala, said security forces were working on
cutting the insurgents' supply lines.


"Terrorists are getting aid from outside Diyala -- from Ramadi,
Salaheddin and Iran. We are focussing on cutting their supply
lines," he told the joint video conference.


Husain said security forces had captured some foreign fighters
during their operations, including two Egyptians and two Syrians.

