

A coroner on Friday accused the US military of a criminal breach
of the international law of armed conflict after the "friendly
fire" death of a British soldier in the early days of the Iraq
war.


Andrew Walker ruled that Lance Corporal Matty Hull was unlawfully
killed when two US jets mistakenly attacked his clearly-marked
convoy in southern Iraq and criticised the Pentagon for failing
to cooperate fully with the inquest.


Hull's widow, Susan, said she was relieved with the ruling but
accused the United States of letting down its main ally in Iraq
by failing to explain the exact circumstances.


The US Defence Department hit back, reaffirming its own finding
that the 25 -year-old's death near Basra on March 28, 2003, was a
"tragic accident" and said it had given all relevant information
to its British counterparts.


In a strongly-worded ruling at the hearing in Oxford, south
central England, Walker said Hull's death was avoidable and
tantamount to manslaughter.


"I find there was no lawful authority to fire on the convoy. The
attack on the convoy therefore amounted to an assault. It was
unlawful because there was no lawful reason for it and in that
respect it was criminal," he added.


At a news conference, Susan Hull criticised US President George
W. Bush, to whom she appealed directly on Thursday to release 11
censored lines from an interview between a ground controller and
one of the pilots.


"They were all together serving the same purpose but when it
comes to following on from that and supporting each other in
situations after that, I think they have been badly let down,"
she said of the US-British alliance.


The attack by two US A-10 "tankbuster" planes -- 12 years after
nine British troops were killed by US planes in a similar
"friendly fire" incident during the first Gulf war -- was
recorded on cockpit footage.


Britain's defence ministry initially said it did not exist and
the Pentagon then refused to release it.


Britain's Ministry of Defence (MoD) said Friday it was "very
sorry for the confusion and upset caused" over the footage and
was "carefully considering" the coroner's comments and ruling.


The hearing made headlines around the world after The Sun
newspaper secured a leaked copy of the classified recording and
it was broadcast on television.


In it, the pilot of one of the jets is heard saying "We're in
jail, dude" after realising the mistake while the other who
opened fire is heard crying.


Walker has criticised the US military's refusal to cooperate with
his inquiry. British government requests for the Pentagon to send
someone in person to give evidence were also refused.


US policy is to send a statement, not witnesses, to such
inquests.


The United States also failed to provide a full version of its
investigation into the incident and turned down a request to give
details of its rules of engagement, the inquest heard.


In the recording, the pilots, who were hunting Iraqi forces,
convince themselves the orange panels on top of Hull's convoy
marking them out as coalition forces were rocket launchers.


Walker said Friday the pilots could easily have confirmed whether
Hull's convoy was "friendly" but chose not to.


The pilot opened fire "with disregard for the rules of engagement
and acting outside the protection of the law of armed conflict,"
he added.


A US military probe cleared the pilots of wrongdoing.


The Pentagon said Friday its probe was "thorough" and the same
for incidents involving US troops.


"The investigation determined that the incident took place in a
complex combat environment, the pilots followed applicable
procedures and processes for engaging targets, believing they
were engaging enemy targets, and that this was a tragic
accident."

