

Pope Benedict XVI will visit Brazil May 9-14, the Vatican
officially announced Friday, confirming that he will go to Sao
Paolo and open a conference of Latin American bishops in
Aparecida.


The trip will be the first to the Americas of Benedict's nearly
two-year-old pontificate.


The Vatican did not give details of the pope's programme, but
local church sources said he would celebrate an open-air mass in
Aparecida, near Sao Paulo, on May 13 before opening the 18-day
Latin American Episcopal Conference.


The conference's agenda will include poverty and exclusion in
Latin America, the proliferation of evangelical sects competing
with the Catholic Church, and the impact of globalisation.


Friday's announcement came two days after the Vatican took fresh
aim at Latin America's broadly popular liberation theology,
issuing a warning to one of its leading lights, Spanish Jesuit
priest Jon Sobrino.


Sobrino's books, widely distributed in the heavily Catholic
region, contain passages that are "either erroneous or dangerous
and may cause harm to the faithful," the Vatican said.


The conservative pope, 79, is a strong opponent of liberation
theology, which took root in Latin America in the 1960s and 1970s
and focuses on Christ as the liberator of the oppressed.


It emphasises the Christian mission of bringing justice to the
poor and oppressed, particularly through political activism.


Advocates of the theology were leading lights in the fight
against oppressive South American regimes.


As head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith for
more than two decades before becoming pope, the then Cardinal
Joseph Ratzinger locked horns with Brazil's leading advocate of
liberation theology, Franciscan Leonardo Boff, in 1985, silencing
him for a year.


Boff reacted to the Vatican's censure of Sobrino on Wednesday by
saying the move "discourages the poor, and it is bad for the
Church to condemn people with such a spiritual talent."


Meanwhile, receiving the credentials of Peru's new envoy to the
Vatican on Friday, Benedict called for "fair distribution of
wealth and other social goods" in the country.


During his visit, according to Brazilian church sources, Benedict
will canonise Brazil's first Roman Catholic saint, 18th-century
friar Antonio de Sant'Ana Galvao, at a mass in Sao Paolo on May
11.


Friar Galvao, who lived from 1739 to 1822, founded monasteries
and convents throughout Brazil. He was beatified -- the step
before canonisation -- by pope John Paul II in 1998.


The pope has travelled twice to his native Germany as well as to
Poland, Spain and Turkey since succeeding John Paul.


On Friday the Austrian bishops conference released the programme
of a September 7-9 visit to the country by the pope, saying he
would focus on "encouraging faith and the renewal of the Church."


Benedict's trip will mark the 850th anniversary of the Mariazell
basilica, the most important pilgrimage destination in Austria,
southwest of Vienna.

