

Universal Music and BMG have offered to sell choice music
catalogues, including Britney Spears and Bryan Adams, to get EU
regulators' approval to merge their music publishing businesses,
a source said on Friday.


Universal and BMG, units of Vivendi of France and Bertelsmann of
Germany respectively, "have offered a significant package of
divestments" to allay regulators' concerns about the deal's
impact on competition, the source said on condition of anonymity.


In particular, they had promised the European Commission to sell
BMG's Zomba Music, which includes the copyrights to songs from
the Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, Bryan Adams, and 19Songs,
which consists primarily of Spice Girls hits.


The European Union's competition watchdog is in the midst of
reviewing the deal to see if the tie-up could threaten
competition in the sector and is due to rule by June 1.


In early September, Vivendi announced its intention to acquire
BMG Music Public Publishing, a unit of Bertelsmann of Germany,
for 1.63 billion euros (2.17 billion dollars).


Following the offer to sell the catalogues, regulators will sound
out other companies in the market if the move would be enough to
ensure that competition thrives, according to the source.


"That's a sign that they've taken the package seriously," the
source said.


Separately, an EU source acknowledged that "things are moving"
and that a decision on the merger could be taken ahead of the
June 1 deadline.


However, the IMPALA independent music label association said that
the divestments might not be enough to ensure competition and
that further commitments should be made by the two groups.


"We would be surprised if the commission accepted a solution that
only includes divestments," said IMPALA official Helen Smith.


Univeral Music was "confident" that a solution would be found
allowing the deal to go ahead.


"We are continuing to work closely with the commission and remain
confident on securing clearance," Universal Music spokesman Adam
White said.

