

The White House on Friday faced growing calls, even from
Republican allies, for Attorney General Al Gonzales to resign or
be fired as a controversy over purged federal prosecutors
deepened.


Late Thursday, newly released electronic mail suggested that US
President George W. Bush's top political adviser, Karl Rove,
played a bigger role in the decision to remove a handful of US
Attorneys than the White House has said.


Democrats, who took control of the US Congress from Bush's
Republicans in November, seized on the news to renew their calls
for top officials to testify before lawmakers in what could be
damaging hearings for the White House.


"Karl Rove was in the middle of this mess from the beginning. It
is now imperative that he testify before Congress and give all
the details of his involvement," said Democratic Senator Chuck
Schumer.


"The reason it's so imperative that people testify under oath is
that every time new information comes out, it proves that the
White House was not telling the truth in their previous
statements," he charged.


At the White House, spokesman Tony Snow said White House counsel
Fred Fielding was still in discussions with lawmakers about the
best way to provide information but declined to promise that top
aides would speak under oath.


"There has been no decision at this juncture about whether there
will or will not be such participation," he said.


The Justice Department has acknowledged misleading lawmakers by
providing incomplete information about the firings of seven
prosecutors in early December 2006, but has said they were
removed for performance-related issues.


Another was pushed in June 2006 to resign and finally left office
in late December. The White House says it very briefly considered
replacing all 93 US attorneys but quickly shot down that notion.


Critics have charged that some of them were fired for political
reasons, noting that one, Carol Lam in California, played a
central role in a major corruption case that led to a prison term
for a Republican congressman and may have led to the resignation
of a top CIA official.


Another was the target of complaints by Republican elected
officials that eventually reached Bush -- though he has denied
ordering the removal of any specific US attorneys.


And White House officials deny any wrongdoing, noting that Bush
praised the investigation and conviction of the Republican
congressman, Randall "Duke" Cunningham.


Snow has also brushed aside talk of Gonzales resigning and, when
asked Friday whether Bush would fire the attorney general,
carefully replied "I know of no such plan."


In the US Congress, two Republicans have openly called for
Gonzales to go, while others have stopped short of that while
saying they have lost confidence in the attorney general and
others that they are deeply troubled.


"The president should fire the attorney general and replace him
as soon as possible with someone who can provide strong,
aggressive leadership," Republican Senator John Sununu said
Wednesday.


The purge is not Gonzales's only headache: He also faces
controversies tied to the revelations that the FBI abused its
power to get Americans' personal information and a news report
accusing him of helping to quash an internal probe that might
have targeted him.


The National Journal publication that covers US politics said
Gonzales advised Bush to shut down the investigation into the
warrantless wiretapping program the president ordered after the
September 11 terrorist attacks at a time when Gonzales knew his
own conduct might come under scrutiny.


The American Civil Liberties Union has called for a special
prosecutor to investigate the program after Bush shuttered the
original internal probe in April 2006.

