

The heads of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank
urged developed countries on Friday to ease up on the conditions
being attached to donor aid for Africa.


"There is an incredible and increasing burden (on African
countries) of aid with different conditions and aid that is not
predictable," IMF managing director Rodrigo de Rato told a
gathering in Cape Town.


"It is often very difficult for countries who need resources from
outside to be able to plan ... if there is not enough
predictability of the flows of aid."


While individual countries themselves were responsible for
developing  "home- grown solutions" to poverty reduction, donor
countries could help with less onerous and better harmonised
conditions for aid, and more predictable flows, said de Rato.


World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz said aid to Africa had
dropped in the past few years, some of the money going instead
going to debt relief and some to conflict regions like Iraq and
Afghanistan.


"And arguably the quality of aid has gone down (too)," he told
the meeting.


"Donors are increasingly applying their aid to such specific
purposes, even worthwhile purposes like the fight against AIDS,
that sometimes what's left over for countries to use for the
purposes they consider the highest priority has actually
declined."


The next year or two would show whether donor countries intended
living up to recent aid promises made, said Wolfowitz.


"There is an ability of African countries to absorb aid and those
promises really need to be kept, for many reasons including that
in this (time) in the world economy this is a rare opportunity to
turn around the situation in Africa."


South Africa's Finance Minister Trevor Manuel told the gathering
aid to sub- Saharan Africa had dropped from 35 percent of world
share in 2003 to 30 percent in 2005.


While its was important for African countries to rely less on aid
flows, donor countries should pool their resources to make them
more effective, he added.

