

A Russian research student on Friday was awarded undisclosed
libel damages after a newspaper implied she might have been
involved in a Kremlin plot to discredit poisoned agent Alexander
Litvinenko.


A judge at London's High Court was told the allegations in the
Sunday Times on December 10 last year about the investigation
into Litvinenko's death had caused Julia Svetlichnaja
"considerable distress" and harmed her reputation.


Svetlichnaja is studying for a doctorate at Westminster
University in London and is writing a book on Russian affairs,
including accounts of her dealings with Litvinenko, who was
poisoned with radioactive polonium 210.


Her lawyer Steven Heffer told the court she had interviewed
Litvinenko for the book and gave interviews about him following
his death.


In the course of an article in the Sunday Times "it was suggested
that there may have been a Kremlin-orchestrated campaign to
discredit Mr Litvinenko", he said.


"In this context Miss Svetlichnaja was named as someone who had
been employed by a state-owned Russian company, giving rise to an
implication that she may have been acting as part of this
campaign," he added.


"These allegations against Miss Svetlichnaja were entirely
without foundation. She has no connection with the Kremlin.


"She has never been employed by a state-owned Russian company. If
there was a Kremlin-orchestrated campaign to discredit Mr
Litvinenko, she was certainly not part of it."


Gillian Phillips, lawyer for Times Newspapers Limited, which
publishes the Sunday Times, said she agreed with Heffer that the
references to Svetlichnaja were wrong and they apologised.


Svelichnaja is taking separate legal action against Norwegian
newspaper Aftenposten over the same allegations but the case is
still pending, Heffer, from London law firm Collyer Bristow, told
AFP later.


Litvinenko, a former agent with FSB security services, died in a
London hospital on November 23 last year after falling ill about
three weeks earlier following a meeting with three Russian
contacts.


His associates -- and he himself in an apparent death-bed letter
-- accused President Vladimir Putin of the poisoning because of
his outspoken criticism of the Russian regime.

