

Foreign and Cambodian judges reached a key agreement Friday on
procedures governing Cambodia's long-stalled Khmer Rouge
tribunal, its officials said.


The rules cover every aspect of the country's genocide trials,
and are necessary for the prosecutions of former regime leaders
to go forward.


But a row over the role of international defence lawyers still
threatens to sink the tribunal, officials said at the end of 10
days of talks.


Cambodia's Bar Association, which must approve all foreign
defence counsel, is demanding that international lawyers wishing
to participate in the trials pay fees amounting to some 4,900 US
dollars a year.


Foreign tribunal judges, however, say the requirement jeopardises
the rights of the accused to choose their defence, and that
official adoption of the rules by a full plenary of jurists is
not possible if the Bar does not reconsider.


"The judges are ready to hold a plenary at the end of April. For
the international judges, this will be possible only if a
satisfactory resolution of this issue is reached," a tribunal
statement said.


"In order to find a solution that is acceptable to all parties so
that the plenary can proceed on, the (Bar) is invited to
reconsider its position as soon as possible."


The judges were meeting Friday for the third time to negotiate
the rules after attempts in November and January failed.


The first public hearings were expected this year, but repeated
delays mean trials will not likely start until early 2008,
officials say.


Rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift trials
amid concerns that aging Khmer Rouge leaders will die before
being brought to justice for one of the worst genocides of the
20th century.


So far, only one possible defendant is on custody.


The only other person arrested for crimes committed during the
Khmer Rouge's 1975-79 rule, military commander Ta Mok, died in
prison last July. Several others live freely in Cambodia.


Up to two million people died of overwork, starvation and
execution under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.


Bar Association president Ky Tech said earlier Friday he did not
see any more obstacles to the start of trials.


"I don't want to see any more delays," he said, but added that he
was still concerned foreign lawyers would be paid more than their
Cambodian counterparts, saying this inequality justified the fees
being demanded by the Bar.


A coalition of non-governmental organisations, including legal
groups, said, though, the fees demanded by the Cambodian Bar were
"exorbitant" and would discourage foreign lawyers from
participating.


After seven years of tough negotiations, Cambodian and the United
Nations agreed in 2003 to a joint tribunal framework.


But efforts to make the trials a reality have since bogged down
several times amid accusations of foot dragging by the
government, which includes many former Khmer Rouge.


The European Parliament said late Thursday that there was no
guarantee "of the judiciary's ability to conduct the trials of
the Khmer Rouge leaders ... without political interference."

