

Organisers of the French Open on Friday joined the three other
Grand Slam tournaments by offering the same prize money for the
men's and women's events.


The French tournament at Roland Garros is the last of the four
elite tennis competitions to adopt a parity purse for men and
women after Wimbledon announced their move to do the same last
month.


The French major had already taken the step for the 2006
championships to award just the winners of both categories the
same prize money but this year organisers have moved for parity
throughout the event.


This year's winners, however, will both pocket a check for one
million euros with the runners-up receiving half that amount.


"Roland Garros' decision to treat all women players as equal is a
recognition of the status of women's tennis and our players and a
real tribute to all those who have campaigned with such passion
and commitment for equality since the founding of the Tour,"
remarked women's world number one Maria Sharapova.


The Winner of the 2005 edition of Wimbledon, Venus Williams was
full of praise for the French Tennis Federation and believed it
was a fine moment for tennis.


"I congratulate the leadership of the French Tennis Federation
for making the decision that will both strengthen the relations
between women players and this event, and send a message of
opportunity and equality to girls across the globe.


"With all four Grand Slams now at equality, the pillars of our
sport can stand proud as ever."


Billie Jean King, who throughout her career rallied for equality
in tennis and controversially broke away from the regular women's
Tour to support the first professional women's tennis tour in the
1970s called the Virginia Slims, believed the wait for parity was
worth it.


"I couldn't be happier. As we knew it would, it has taken several
years to accomplish this goal, but it has been well worth the
wait and we salute the French Tennis Federation for taking this
decisive and final step to equality," said King.


The 2007 French Open will be played from May 27 through to June
10 in south western Paris.

