

The United States said Friday it would expedite Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's request for a visa to address the UN
Security Council when it votes on a new sanctions resolution
against his country next week.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack urged Ahmadinejad to
use the appearance to do an about face and announce the
suspension of his country's uranium enrichment program as
demanded under previous UN resolutions.


McCormack said Iran had applied via the US embassy in Switzerland
for visas for Ahmadinejad and his delegation to attend the UN
Security Council session that will vote on a resolution
toughening UN sanctions against Tehran.


That meeting is expected sometime next week but has not been
scheduled.


"We are going to do everything that we can in accordance with our
(UN) host country responsibilities to expedite the issuing of any
such visas," he said.


Due to US laws, McCormack said he could not definitively announce
that Ahmadinejad would receive the visas until they are actually
issued.


"But I would just note for you that we have in the past issued
visas for him as well as his travelling party when they've gone
to the UN," he said.


The US and Tehran have not had direct diplomatic relations since
the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran.


On Thursday, the five major Security Council powers and Germany
-- the so-called P5-plus-1 grouping -- agreed on a package of new
UN sanctions against Iran for its repeated refusal to suspend its
uranium enrichment program.


The US and its allies fear the program is aimed at producing
nuclear weapons, while Iran insists it is only to fuel nuclear
power stations -- an activity allowed under international
treaties.


Ahmadinejad confirmed earlier Friday that he had formally asked
to attend the council meeting under UN regulations allowing any
country that is subject to a UN resolution a right of rebuttal.


"Should the American government issue a visa, I will definitely
participate in the Security Council meeting and defend Iran's
nuclear rights," Ahmadinejad he said.


McCormack said the Iranian should use the occasion to accept an
offer made by the P5-plus-1 group to negotiate an energy and
other aid package and improve relations with Tehran if it gives
up its enrichment activities.


"We would hope that President Ahmadinejad, when he comes before
the Security Council, would take that opportunity and that moment
to say that Iran has accepted the hand which has been extended to
it in the form of the P5-plus-1 offer to negotiate with Iran," he
said.


"What we hope we don't see is more rhetoric," he said.


The P5, or permanent UN Security Council members, are Britain,
China, France, Russia and the United States.


In a speech Friday, Ahmadinejad refused again to stop its
disputed nuclear work.


"The Iranian nation possesses the nuclear fuel cycle and will not
go back on that," he told a rally in central Yazd province, cited
by the semi-official Fars news agency.


"The Iranian nation is moving speedily on the path to progress,
and the enemies' pressures and threats do not affect the nation's
will," he said.


The new UN draft resolution, which was still under discussion
Friday among the 15 members of the full Security Council, would
build on sanctions imposed in December after Tehran ignored
repeated UN demands to freeze uranium enrichment.


Those measures included a ban on the sale of nuclear and
ballistic missile- related materials to the Islamic republic and
a freeze on financial assets of Iranians involved in atomic and
ballistic missile work.


The new resolution would add restrictions on arms sales to and
from Iran, voluntary travel bans on additional officials and
companies and voluntary restrictions on loans and other financial
assistance to Iran.

