

Cuba has launched the lengthy process toward 2008 elections, with
officials optimistic that longtime communist leader Fidel Castro
will be fit enough to be reappointed as president.


Castro, 80, had handed over power to his younger brother Raul
after undergoing surgery in July, but a top official suggested he
could soon resume the functions he held for almost five decades.


"I am certain he will be in perfect condition to continue
assuming this responsibility," national assembly leader Ricardo
Alarcon told journalists on Thursday when asked if the older
Castro would seek re-election in 2008.


The veteran revolutionary ruled Cuba with an iron fist since he
led the 1959 ouster of dictator Fulgencio Batista in 1959.


Since the current electoral system was introduced in 1976, his
reappointment by deputies elected in single-party elections have
always been a foregone conclusion.


In a first step toward his reappointment, Castro would have to
stand for election as a deputy in April 2008.


Castro "provisionally" handed over to his 75-year-old brother and
longtime number two on July 31, saying he would resume his
functions once he has recovered from intestinal surgery.


But he officially remains the head of the Council of State, the
Carribean island's ruling body, and officials say he is still
working on affairs of state.


"Fidel has been and is very involved, very connected, very active
in the important decisions that have been taken in the country,"
Alarcon told journalists during a meeting held to prepare the
electoral process.


Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque has stressed that government
and Communist Party officials regularly sought guidance from
Castro.


Alarcon acknowledged though that at this stage, Castro could not
be as involved as he was in the past, "since he has to devote
much of his time to his physical recovery."


Cuban authorities have released few details of their leader's
condition. Castro, who has survived several assassination
attempts in his 48 years in power, said a few days after surgery
that his condition had to remain a "state secret."


The secrecy has fueled often wild speculation, with US officials
at one stage suggesting that Washington's longtime nemesis had
just days left to live.


Much to the chagrin of hardline Cuban exiles in Miami, who had
prematurely danced on his grave, video footage of Castro
broadcast on January 30 showed him looking healthier and more
alert than in the previous pictures released by Cuban
authorities.


"I have been in contact with him a lot ... and the process of
recovery continues going very well," Alarcon said on Thursday.


Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez, who has met and telephoned
Castro on several occasions in recent months, suggested this week
his friend and ally would soon be ready to resume his activities
and hinted he could meet Bolivia's fellow- leftist President Evo
Morales in April.

