

German Chancellor Angela Merkel Friday warned Poland against
blocking the European Union's stalled constitution, while she
also sought to woo Warsaw to Germany's side in building a
stronger Europe.


Failure to endorse the EU constitution would be "a historic
missed opportunity," Merkel said in a speech at Warsaw University
shortly after arriving here on a visit both "as German chancellor
and president of the EU."


Led by Poland's euro-sceptic identical twins, President Lech
Kaczynski and his brother Jaroslaw, the prime minister, Warsaw
last month urged the EU to ditch attempts to revive the
constitution which was put on ice two years ago when French and
Dutch voters rejected it.


"The time for reflection is past. It's time for decisions. I
pledge that there will be a roadmap to move forward (with the
constitution) by the end of the German presidency," in June,
Merkel said.


"It is not only in Europe's interest but also in the interest of
member states and citizens of Europe that this process is taken
to a positive end by the next European elections in 2009.


"Failure to do this would be a historic missed opportunity,"
Merkel said.


She urged Poland to leave behind -- but not forget -- past
tensions with Germany and move forward with its central European
neighbour for a stronger Europe.


"As Pope John Paul II said, it is God's will that Germany and
Poland are neighbours. As neighbours, we have a duty and
responsibility to live well together," she said.


"For Germany and Poland to live well together, today and in
future, we must draw lessons from the darkest period in our
history," she said, referring to World War II, during which "more
than six million Poles lost their lives because of the Germans."


Germans must not only accept their nation's dark past but also be
allowed to mourn it, Merkel said.


"As German chancellor, I understand and support the Germans who
at the end of World War II were painfully forced from their
homeland, and their right to look back on their fate with
dignity," she said in her speech in the Polish capital, a city
almost entirely destroyed by the Nazis at the end of the war.


Gnawing at relations between Poland and Germany is the issue of
Germans who were expelled from Polish territory as World War II
drew to a close.


They were among some 14 million German civilians who were
displaced, deported or expelled from their homes in eastern
Europe from 1944 onwards as the Soviet Red Army advanced and
Germany's Third Reich crumbled.


Merkel has in the past spoken out in favour of a proposed centre
for Germany's war displaced -- a project that the Kaczynski twins
bitterly oppose, saying it is an attempt to portray Germans as
war victims and rewrite history.


"Dignity would, to my mind, come from not just the Germans who
were expelled or fled, but also all others, including Poles,
being allowed to remember their pain and, above all, for it to be
made clear that history cannot and will not be rewritten," Merkel
said.


Europeans are united by common values, she said, but failed to go
as far as the leaders of Catholic Poland who want references to
Christianity to be included in a statement set to be issued to
mark the 50th anniversary of the bloc's founding Treaty of Rome
next week.


"Europe is not a 'Christian club', as some would like to say. But
Europe is founded on values that are clearly grounded in the
Christian vision of humanity," said Merkel.


Poles and Germans must "keep working to make old fears, worries
and even prejudices disappear", but assured that "a lot of hard
work has already been done," the German chancellor said.


"There is only one way forward: don't act alone but as part of a
united Europe, which is also a strong Europe."


Merkel left Warsaw after the speech for the Polish presidential
retreat in the Baltic seaside resort of Hel, where she is due to
hold closed-door talks on Saturday with the Polish president.

