

Kosovo's prime minister said Friday that UN envoy Martti
Ahtisaari has proposed giving the disputed Serbian province
independence in a plan submitted to the United Nations overnight.


"The proposal for the Kosovo status is (at the UN headquarters)
in New York and it is as we expected it to be, because Ahtisaari
was very clear in his proposal on Kosovo's status," Agim Ceku
told reporters.


"It remains now for Ahtisaari himself on April 3 to explain the
content of his proposal to the members of the Contact Group and
reasons which led him to propose independence for Kosovo," said
the ethnic Albanian leader.


The informal Contact Group of nations has been monitoring peace
in the former Yugoslavia since it collapsed in the last decade's
bloody wars.


Kosovo has been in limbo under UN administration for almost eight
years, since NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces
carrying out a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Its Albanians, who make up around 90 percent of Kosovo's two
million population, have since been impatient for independence,
which Belgrade and most Serbs strongly oppose.


NATO began reinforcing its 17,000-strong troops in the tiny
Balkan territory this week as tensions have heightened ahead of
the status settlement.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider a plan put forward by Ahtisaari following the failure of
year-long talks between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians.


The plan, which Ahtisaari revised after a final round of talks
that ended deadlocked on Saturday, would grant Kosovo self-rule,
its own flag and anthem and membership in international
organisations.


According to Albanian-language Kosovo media on Friday, the
proposals sent overnight to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
contain a previously unseen annex that recommends granting Kosovo
independence.


The UN Security Council was likely to make a final decision on
the status of Kosovo by June this year, according to Kosovo
president Fatmir Sejdiu.


"The plan for solving Kosovo's status contains a concrete
proposal for monitored independence," said Sejdiu, adding it was
crucial that the United States and European Union fully backed
the process.

