

The US Farm Bill is "counterproductive" in its current form and
could lead to increased subsidies to US cotton formers of up to
65 percent, African cotton producing nations said here on Friday.


"If the new American law is approved as it stands, it will be
counterproductive," Benin's trade minister Moudjaidou Issifou
Soumanou told reporters following a meeting with World Trade
Organisation Director General Pascal Lamy.


"The proposed reforms will increase cotton subsidies by 60 to 65
percent."


African cotton producers have lost 30 percent of their revenues
in recent years, due to subsidies in the West, and a decline in
the market price of the commodity, Soumanou added.


The African ministers were in Geneva for a two-day meeting with
WTO officials and other delegations on the vexed issue of cotton
subsidies.


"All countries and all groups unanimously reaffirmed the need to
deal with the cotton dossier ambitiously, expeditiously and
specifically," Soumanou said.


Lamy agreed that cotton was an issue of "systemic importance for
the multilateral trading system."


"It's a reality that African countries producing cotton are
increasing their exports, but it's also a reality that the
revenues of cotton producers are declining," he told reporters.


This is due to declining world price trends and also trade
distortions, such as subsidies and market protection, Lamy added.


"It's clearer than ever that the single most important
contribution we can make to solving this cotton problem is to
finish the Doha round as soon as possible," he told reporters.


The Doha round of global trade liberalisation negotiations was
launched in the Qatari capital in November 2001 but has foundered
ever since, largely in disputes over tariffs on agricultural
products and other forms of official farm support.


Observers said that little was achieved over the past two days of
talks, which were notable for the absence of any Western
ministers.


"Things didn't move an inch," said Nicolas Imboden, head of the
IDEAS think tank on international commerce based in Geneva.


"There were no new proposals on development aid, and talks on
subsidies were only raised at an informative session," rather
than in a full meeting, he added.


Members of the Cotton-4 group -- Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, and
Mali -- say they have suffered from the decline in cotton prices
under the weight of cheaper subsidised cotton from rich nations.


A new mechanism set up in Mali in 2005 exposes farmers to
depressed world prices, removes government support and removes
the direct link with production costs, according to a report
released earlier this week by British-based charity Oxfam.


The report called on donors, including the World Bank, to set up
a price stabilisation fund to help farmers and other stakeholders
cushion the risks inherent in producing raw commodities for
export.

