

Taliban insurgents -- not foreign troops -- shot dead five
policemen overnight, a senior Afghan officer said Friday,
reversing his first account after an investigation.


Helmand deputy police chief General Isau Khan told AFP earlier
Friday that NATO soldiers had opened fire on the Afghan police in
the southern province of Helmand late Thursday by mistake.


But NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) firmly
denied any involvement as did the separate US-led coalition.


By Friday evening Khan had changed the story, saying an
investigation team sent to the area had discovered that the
policemen, who had been on patrol, were killed in a Taliban
ambush and ISAF troops had arrived on the scene afterwards.


"The Taliban wanted to attack the NATO troops but a police car
arrived before them. Taliban attacked the police car," he said.


The attackers then fled the area and the ISAF soldiers arrived,
he said.


"We sent a delegation to investigate and they found out that
these policemen were killed in a Taliban ambush," Khan said.


He said six other policemen were still missing from a nearby
checkpost.


ISAF and coalition spokesmen were adamant in their denial of
involvement of the event, which came after a string of incidents
in which mainly civilians have been killed by foreign forces
fearing an attack.


"We have closely reviewed various reports and the positions of
ISAF forces. All indications are that no ISAF forces were
involved in this unfortunate incident," spokesman Colonel Tom
Collins said.


ISAF, which was about 37,000 troops from 37 countries, is here to
stabilise the country, including by ridding areas of insurgents,
to allow for development work.


The coalition, which numbers about 14,000, is focussed on
counterterrorism.


"After reviewing all reports from US forces there is no
indication that US forces were involved in this tragic event,"
coalition spokesman Major Chris Belcher said.


Also in the mix of armed forces in war-ravaged Afghanistan are
various branches of the Afghan security forces, including the
newly established auxiliary police.


And in areas like Helmand there are also hardcore Taliban
fighters, hundreds of foreign jihadists and drug traffickers.


These rebel elements are the target of a major operation,
Achilles, that was launched in the northern part of Helmand two
weeks ago and involving 5,500 foreign and Afghan troops.


The foreign security forces are smarting from a rash of incidents
this year in which troops have killed civilians, either fearing
they were attackers or in bombing raids.


In one of the most serious, eight civilians were killed in the
eastern province of Nangarhar on March 4 following an ambush on a
US convoy that prompted troops to open fire.


It is unclear how many died in the attack and how many returned
fire.


On the same day, nine Afghan civilians -- including five women
and three children -- were killed when US-led coalition warplanes
bombed a compound in the province of Kapisa, near Kabul, that
insurgents were seen to enter.


The insurgency, in which the Taliban are supported by the Al-
Qaeda terror network, was its bloodiest last year. More than
4,000 people were killed, most of them rebels.


Human Rights Watch has said more than 1,000 civilians were among
the dead.


Several officials have warned the fighting is likely to be just
as hard this year.

