

Western countries and allies of Sudan in the UN Human Rights
Council were locked in a battle of minds on Friday over the
follow-up to a mission that accused Khartoum of orchestrating war
crimes in Darfur, diplomats said.


The 47-member assembly was set to continue its debate on Darfur
next week, after attempts to stifle the discussion were thwarted
by tough bargaining behind the scenes, a senior EU official said.


An end to the debate would have effectively nullified findings of
the Council- appointed mission led by Nobel laureate Jody
Williams.


It released a report on Monday accusing Sudan of orchestrating
human rights abuses and war crimes in Darfur.


The report also criticised the international community's failure
to protect civilians.


Sudan, which blocked the troubled mission from entering the
country, has rejected the findings as biased.


Pressure on Sudan was also building in the more powerful UN
Security Council in New York.


The United States said Wednesday that it would seek a UN
resolution aimed at forcing Khartoum to allow a UN-led
peacekeeping force into Darfur.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Thursday that the
international community should take a "far tougher line" against
Sudan over atrocities in Darfur to prevent extremism spreading
across Africa.


The eight EU countries in the Human Rights Council are now aiming
to to convince a majority of the 47 nations to at least "take
note" of the report, and then act to follow-up on its findings,
the EU official said.


China and Russia defended Khartoum, while Islamic nations
signalled that they backed complaints of bias and would seek
approval for a replacement mission.


"We have to understand that this report was not done properly ...
because they did not go to Sudan," OIC Secretary General
Ekmelledin Ihsan said this week.


However, the African group of countries in the Council, which had
previously rallied around a more diplomatic approach on Darfur,
appeared divided Friday.


Ghana, Senegal and Zambia voiced concern about the human rights
situation there.


Developing nations hold a majority on the Council and their
support is crucial in any vote.


The Council's current session is due to end on March 30

