

A UN-sponsored conference on Friday brought together nearly 90
countries, including Iran and Syria, and several multilateral
institutions to review an ambitious five-year plan to rebuild
war-torn Iraq's economy.


In an opening statement to the closed-door meeting on the
International Compact with Iraq (ICI), UN chief Ban Ki-moon said
the world body was committed to supporting implementation of the
ICI.


"The United Nations will make every effort to ensure that the
international community remains engaged in this process," he
said. "The challenges ahead are immense. I am sure you will agree
that we cannot leave Iraq on its own to cope with them.


"We are all aware of the difficult situation in Iraq. ... Beyond
the political violence and sectarian strife, a humanitarian
crisis is stretching the patience and ability of ordinary people
to cope," Ban added.


He said the UN was now beefing up its humanitarian efforts and
working with Iraq's neighbors to address the needs of Iraqi
refugees and displaced people.


But Ban said the Compact specifically focused on Iraq's "long-
term economic development, while also stressing progress in the
political and security fields."


Friday's meeting was jointly chaired by Iraqi Vice President Adel
Abdel Mahdi and Ibrahim Gambari, a former UN under secretary
general for political affairs who early this month was named
Ban's ICI special advisor.


It aims to take stock on progress since the launch of the ICI, a
joint UN-Iraq initiative backed by the World Bank, last July to
revive Iraq's moribund economy and integrate it into the global
economy.


The ICI is strongly backed by the United States, which currently
has 142,000 US troops in Iraq.


"This initiative is designed to help achieve within five years
Iraq's vision of a stable and prosperous nation underpinned by a
self-sustaining economy," US Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert
Kimmit wrote in The Washington Post Friday.


ICI officials said the Compact established a schedule for action
by international partners, including "tangible financial
commitments calibrated to the government's reform efforts and
based on international recognized framework by which Iraqi needs
will be identified and quantified."


The Compact also lays out the Baghdad government's program of
action focusing on key areas identified in a national development
strategy: public resource, management, economic reforms, social
sector reforms, investment, energy and agriculture.


"The Iraqis are committing themselves to a set of reforms on the
economic, political and security tracks in exchange for support
from the international community," the US ambassador-designate to
the UN, Zalmay Khalilzad, told a congressional hearing in
Washington Thursday, referring to the ICI.


Under the Compact, Iraq also commits itself to treating all of
its ethnic groups fairly and equally sharing its oil resources
through a transparent energy sector. It also vows to fight
corruption and keep to rigorous budgets.


The UN meanwhile commits itself to helping Iraq achieve these
goals through its Baghdad mission and other international
agencies based there.


Friday's meeting here is part of a concerted effort to stabilize
the US-backed Baghdad government and end sectarian and insurgent
violence in Iraq four years after the US-led war that ousted
Saddam Hussein.


A first meeting dubbed an Iraq neighbors conference but which
also included diplomats from other Arab states and the five
permanent UN Security Council members -- Britain, China, France,
Russia and the US -- was held March 10 in Baghdad.


Thursday, US officials said another international conference on
Iraq that will see US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sit
alongside her Iranian and Syrian counterparts could be held as
early as April 1.


A location for the meeting has not yet been made public, but the
United States has said it would prefer to gather in Istanbul.

