

Three senior lawmakers from US President George W. Bush's
Republican party have warned they would resist any attempt to
prematurely remove North Korea from a list of state sponsors of
terrorism.


North Korea's removal from the list published annually by the US
State Department is a critical component of an accord reached
among six nations on February 13 under which the Stalinist state
would begin dismantling its nuclear weapons program.


It requires the United States to "begin the process of removing
the designation of the DPRK (North Korea) as a state sponsor of
terrorism" as the two nuclear rivals discuss normalization in
relations.


But the three Republican legislators from the House of
Representatives, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Edward Royce and Donald
Manzullo, sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
urging caution in Washington's diplomatic approach to resolving
the nuclear crisis with Pyongyang.


They said in a statement they "would resist any attempt to
prematurely remove North Korea from the list of state sponsors of
terrorism."


The trio cited issues of North Korea's missile technology
proliferation, "continuing" counterfeiting of US currency and
past abductions of US, Korean and Japanese citizens.


"The State Department's list of terrorist states cannot be used
as a bargaining chip in diplomatic negotiations. It will
ultimately lead to a greater threat to American security in the
future," the three cautioned in the letter.


"The expeditious removal of the DPRK from the State Department's
annual list of state sponsors raises serious concerns over the
integrity of the list, which has gained additional relevancy in a
post-September 11th world," they said.


Ros-Lehtinen, Royce and Manzullo said that in order to remove
North Korea from the list, the United States must require
Pyongyang to cease any involvement in terrorist activities at
least for four years.


It should also resolve all outstanding cases of past terrorist
activities, including kidnapping cases, and a reported
assassination of a South Korean diplomat in Vladivostok, Russia,
in 1996, and abide by international anti- terrorism agreements.


"Until these requirements are met, there is no guarantee that
North Korea will not revert to activities that have earned it the
designation as a state-sponsor of terror," the letter concluded.


Under the February 13 accord, North Korea agreed to close and
seal its key Yongbyon nuclear facility -- long suspected to be
the center of its nuclear program -- within 60 days and admit UN
nuclear inspectors in return for 50,000 tonnes of heavy fuel oil.


Both the United States and Japan are holding normalization talks
with North Korea under separate working groups established under
the accord reached in six- party talks that also included South
Korea, Japan, Russia and China.

