

President of the French football federation (FFF) Jean-Pierre
Escalettes on Friday said he was 'shocked' at Arsenal boss Arsene
Wenger's comments blaming France's mismanagement for Thierry
Henry's injury-plagued season.


Escalettes has joined UEFA President Michel Platini in criticism
of the Gunners boss adding he "supported" the firm retort of
France coach Raymond Domenech on Thursday.


Domenech blasted Wenger saying he was "getting seriously tired"
of the Arsenal manager's grumblings adding: "He is starting to
get on everyone's nerves. He doesn't know absolutely everything.


"He is not the only one who has a right to exist in the world of
football."


Wenger created widespread fury among and around the French camp
on Tuesday when he blamed Henry's below-par season on what he
believed was poor handling of the striker by the national team.


Henry has been plagued with injury this season and the final blow
came for the 29-year-old when he was ruled out for the rest of
season following a groin and stomach muscle tear suffered in
their Champions league exit to PSV Eindhoven.


FFF president Escalettes said that by experiencing the workings
of the national team first hand it was hard to believe there was
any substance to Wenger's complaints.


"I am lucky enough to be close to the France team, and for two
years I have seen all the precautions that are taken and the
competence of the medical staff.


"It is not because he (Thierry Henry) played one and a half hours
in Bosnia that he has problems today."


However Wenger fuelled the debate when, speaking to French sports
daily L'Equipe, he said he was not interested in Domenech's
remarks adding that the French coach was "a relentless
provocator.


"The coach never calls me. He draws on clubs that improve their
players and then scorns these clubs, he pays them no attention.


"Is a telephone call to give news on a player with whom you rub
shoulders with on a daily basis too much to ask for? If this
process existed, there wouldn't be a problem.


"The only one (national coaches) who never calls me is Domenech,"
concluded Wenger.


Despite understanding Wenger's viewpoint in the affair, Lyon boss
Gerard Houllier believes Domench's only interest is for the
greater good of the national team.


"I am behind Arsene, you know that well. But Raymond (Domenech)
does what he wants and he knows what he must do to qualify France
for Euro 2008. If there are nine Lyon players against Austria, I
will adapt myself around it.


"I met Raymond Domenech conerning Robert Duverne the day of the
Marseille game and it went very well," added Houllier.

