

Holders Sevilla take on Tottenham Hotspur in the quarter-finals
of the UEFA Cup, the draw for which was made here on Friday.


Sevilla remained on course to become the first side since Real
Madrid in 1986 to successfully defend their title with a dramatic
come-from-behind win against Shaktar Donetsk on Thursday night.


And Enzo Maresca, fresh from scoring twice in Thursday's defeat
of Shaktar, was on hand in Glasgow to return the trophy ahead of
the May 16 final at Hampden Park.


The Sevilla star said: "We're happy to have got through last
night and to have the chance to defend our trophy.


"To be honest, we were a bit lucky, but for us winning this
trophy was a historic moment, our first European win and a great
achievement for the club.


"We're here to leave the trophy for two months and then take it
back to Seville! We know it will be difficult to win it again,
but we will try and you never know what will happen."


Aiming to stop their UEFA run are Spurs, winners of the first
edition of the UEFA Cup in 1972 and again in 1984, who booked
their place in the last eight by beating Portuguese side Braga in
the fourth round on Wednesday.


Martin Jol's side are the only British club left in the
comeptition after Newcastle were knocked out by AZ Akmaar on
Thursday.


The Dutch outfit's reward was a quarter-final match-up against
Werder Bremen.


Werder's Bundesliga rivals Bayer Leverkusen, winners in 1988,
face Spanish side Osasuna who enter uncharted territory as this
is the first time they've made it this far in a European
competition.


The final last eight pairing pits another Spanish side, Espanyol,
against Benfica of Portugal.


The first legs will be played on April 5 with the return legs the
following Thursday.


The winner of the headline tie between Sevilla and Spurs will
face either Bayer Leverkusen or Osasuna in the first semi-final
with the second semi contested by Espanyol or Benfica against AZ
Akmaar or Werder Bremen.


The draw was made in Glasgow where the final will be staged at
Hampden Park on May 16.


UEFA Cup quarter-final draw


AZ Alkmaar (NED) v Werder Bremen (GER)


Bayer Leverkusen (GER) v Osasuna (ESP)


Sevilla (ESP) v Tottenham Hotspur (ENG)


Espanyol (ESP) v Benfica (POR)


1st leg - April 5


2nd leg-  April 12

