

Cuba might upset a likely takeover bid by Imperial Tobacco for
Spanish-French group Altadis because it has an option to buy the
cigar division, press reports and analysts said on Friday.


The Spanish newspaper ElEconomista aid that Cuban leader Fidel
castro "is not prepared to share the equity with a British
company."


The possibility for Communist Cuba to disrupt a takeover on the
stock market arises because Cuba has an option to buy the cigar
business if its shareholding structure changes, they said.


Asked about the possible move by Cuba by AFP in France and Spain
on Friday, Altadis declined to comment and did not confirm that
such a pre-emption clause on the cigar business Corporacion
Habanos existed.


The offshoot has been owned equally by Altadis and by the Cuban
government since 2000 when Altadis bought its 50-percent
interest.


The business, Corporacion Habanos, is considered to be a jewel in
the Altadis group, owning the brands of Montecristo, Cohiba,
Romeo y Julieta and Partagas. It accounts for 22.0 percent of
group sales and 24.0 percent of gross operating margin.


ElEconomista said the Cuban option could be a major obstacle to a
takeover.


At brokers Societe Generale, analysts said Imperial Tobacco would
want to retain the cigar business and would want to be sure of
support from Altadis to negotiate an agreement with Cuba.


This might mean that Imperial Tobacco would have to raise its
proposed terms of 45 euros per share, valuing the group at about
11.5 billion euros (15.2 billion dollars), they said, estimating
that it might have to go to 49 euros.


Brokers Lehman Brothers said Imperial might have to offer 48
euros.


In late afternoon trading here, the Altadis shares were being
quoted at 45.5 euros in heavy dealing.


At brokers Caja Madrid, analysts said they thought that British
American Tobacco might make a counter offer, saying: "We are a
stage where it is 'now or never' in the tobacco market because
this could be the last big operation in the sector."

