

A helicopter carrying three European extreme skiers, among them a
Swiss pioneer of the sport, has gone missing in northern Indian-
administered Kashmir, officials said Friday.


"The airforce has not been able to trace the helicopter or the
missing skiers," army spokesman A.K. Mathur said.


"Our pilots have returned due to fading light and the aerial
search operation will be resumed tommorow morning," he said.


The helicopter went missing in the Sonamarg area, about 100
kilometers (62 miles) northeast of the Indian Kashmir's summer
capital of Srinagar, the head of the Himalayan region's tourism
department, Farooq Shah, told AFP.


The heliski trip was being led by Sylvain Saudan, a Swiss
national, officials said.


Saudan is recognised as a veteran pioneer of extreme skiing, and
has been organising paid heliski trips to the revolt-hit
Himalayan region for the past two decades.


He has also survived two helicopter crashes in the same Sonamarg
area, most recently in 2000.


The other two skiers were identified as a man and a woman of
either Swiss or French nationality. Further details, including on
the helicopter crew, were not immediately available.


"He is in love with Kashmir. He doesn't earn much by organising
such trips, he just has a passion about this place," said
Mohammed Ashraf, a former head of Kashmir's tourism department
and Saudan's close friend.


Saudan's trips involved departing from Srinagar in the morning,
returning by midday for refueling before making another return
trip to the mountains.


"When it did not return today, we were worried and informed the
police," an official at Srinagar's Grand Palace hotel told AFP.


Heliskiing involves using a helicopter to reach isolated peaks
for challenging off-piste descents away from the crowds of
established, lift-served resorts.


Hundreds of Western skiers and snowboarders converge on Indian
Kashmir each year, even though the region has been wracked by an
insurgency against Indian rule since 1989.


The area is reputed as having some of the best extreme and off-
piste skiing in the world, accessible either by helicopter or at
the resort of Gulmarg -- situated just a two-hour drive from
Srinagar.

