

The Western Force continued their hunt for a first ever Super 14
semi-final berth when they demolished a woeful Queensland Reds
38-3 at Subiaco Oval here Friday.


The Force, in fourth place on the Super 14 table heading into the
weekend, ensured they would stay in the top four after securing a
bonus point for scoring four tries - the first Australian team to
do so this year.


But they waited until the final few minutes to clinch the bonus,
against a 14-man Queensland outfit missing nearly half of their
top line players.


Wingers Cameron Shepherd and Digby Ioane both crossed in the
dying stages of the match, adding some luster to what until then
had been an error-ridden stop-start affair.


The Reds were under pressure right from the start with Shepherd
opening the scoring after just two minutes when Queensland
conceded a penalty right in front.


There was controversy soon after when referee Brett Bowden
awarded the home side a penalty try when he adjudged Queensland
winger Peter Hynes to have deliberately knocked the ball down to
stop the Force scoring.


Hynes, one of the fastest men in Australian rugby, protested that
he was attempting an intercept and replays seemed to back him up,
but Bowden awarded the try and showed the Reds winger a yellow
card.


The hapless Reds suffered further when they lost hooker Sean
Hardman and scrumhalf Will Genia with injuries before 20 minutes
were up, adding to an already horrific injury toll for the
Brisbane-based outfit.


"The boys tried hard but everything we did seemed to go wrong -
the bounce of the ball, the dropped ball, the 50-50 calls seemed
to go against us tonight," Reds captain John Roe said.


Former Wallaby Andrew Walker kicked a penalty to get the Reds on
the scoreboard but the Force struck again after 25 minutes when
outstanding scrumhalf Chris O'Young crossed out wide after
excellent lead-up work by number 8 Scott Fava.


But in a further blow for the Reds, Hynes appeared to spear
tackle his former Queensland teammate Drew Mitchell in the build
up to the try and referee Bowden sent him from the field for a
second yellow card.


Shepherd booted one more penalty to send the Force into the break
leading 18-3.


The Force ground home the advantage in the second half, with
Shepherd kicking a brace of penalties before he and Ioane secured
the bonus point with their late tries to give the home crowd
something to remember other than an endless parade of collapsed
scrums and dropped ball.


Force captain Nathan Sharpe said his team's defence had proved
crucial.


"Our tackling impact has been down a bit and that was a big goal
for us tonight - to stop getting their hands on the ball," he
said. "They had a limited game plan after that."

