

The US called Friday on Pakistani authorities and their opponents
to show the "utmost" restraint after anti-government street
protests turned violent in the south Asian nation.


But at the same time the State Department reaffirmed its strong
support for President Pervez Musharraf, whose decision to sack
the country's chief justice sparked the opposition
demonstrations.


"What we would urge in this case is that both sides exercise the
utmost degree of restraint in seeking to reduce the opportunity
for violent clashes between protestors and police," department
spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"Protestors should be able to exercise their right to freely
voice their opinions with respect to political matters and police
have a job to do as well," he said.


"We would just urge that in doing that job, they allow for the
free protest and that neither side take actions that would
deliberately provoke the other into a violent confrontation," he
said.


The US official was speaking hours after Pakistan riot police
fired rubber bullets and tear gas at demonstrators and arrested
dozens of people protesting Musharraf's dismissal of Chief
Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry.


Police also smashed equipment at a television station that was
broadcasting the clashes near the Supreme Court in Islamabad,
where Chaudhry attended a hearing into misconduct charges.


Musharraf later apologized for the police action at the offices
of the private television network Geo and said those responsible
would be punished.


The opposition says Musharraf is trying to intimidate the
judiciary before they hear key issues -- including his planned
re-election by parliament and his dual role as president and army
chief -- later this year.


The United States, which considers Musharraf one of its closest
allies in the "war on terror," had earlier said the military
leader's action against the country's top judge was a "matter of
deep concern" to Washington.


But Friday McCormack avoided such criticism and strongly praised
Musharraf, who seized power in a bloodless army coup in 1999.


"President Musharraf is a good friend and ally in the war on
terror, he has a vision for Pakistan in terms of political and
economic and social reforms and he is proceeding along that
pathway," he said.


"Is there more to do? Yes, absolutely," he said.


"But President Musharraf is acting in the best interests of
Pakistan and the Pakistani people," he said.

