

Finland heads into an election on Sunday with polls indicating
that Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen's centre-left government will
likely be returned to power after a tight race.


Vanhanen, a former journalist who was handed the reins of
government in 2003 after just 10 weeks' experience as a cabinet
minister, has grown into the role of prime minister to become one
of Finland's most popular politicians.


While lacking in charisma, he is widely respected for his
competence and detailed knowledge of the issues.


The election campaign has been a largely lacklustre affair --
Finland is characterised by a general political consensus, where
all of the big parties have governed together in broad coalitions
at some point in recent history.


But the campaign has gained intensity in recent days with health
care and care for the elderly in the spotlight.


The Nordic country has one of Europe's most rapidly aging
populations. Two- thirds of Finns say they are not worried about
their future pension, but there is widespread concern about a
future shortage of carers for the elderly, and Vanhanen has vowed
to hire 30,000 people over the next four years.


A Gallup poll published on Friday in the biggest Finnish daily
Helsingin Sanomat showed that 43 percent of 2,002 Finns surveyed
said they wanted Vanhanen's current coalition re-elected to a
second four-year term.


Vanhanen's Centre Party governs with the Social Democrats and
tiny Swedish People's Party.


Less than a quarter of voters, 24 percent, want to see a centre-
right coalition made up of the Centre Party and the Conservative
National Coalition Party, while 16 percent prefer an alliance
between the Conservatives and the Social Democrats.


The Centre Party remains the biggest party in the polls, and the
biggest party traditionally forms a parliamentary majority and
occupies the post of prime minister.


Should the Centre retain its lead it could choose to continue its
coalition with the Social Democrats, but it could also switch to
a centre-right alliance with the Conservatives.


Another poll, published by the Taloustutkimus institute on Friday
and which questioned just under 2,000 people, showed the Centre
Party garnering 24.7 percent of votes, the Social Democrats 21.3
percent and the Conservatives 20.4 percent.


None of the three biggest parties has indicated which parties it
would seek to collaborate with if it wins Sunday's election.


In the final days of campaigning, the Social Democrats appeared
to lose some ground to the Conservatives, and according to
Helsingin Sanomat the Conservative Party's 35-year-old leader
Jyrki Katainen won a televised debate on Thursday.


"We can still win with a (final) sprint," Heinaeluoma told
reporters.


Social Democratic Party supporters were expected to be out en
masse at the weekend, handing out 100,000 roses, the party's
symbol, in a bid to mobilise voters.


Only 70 percent of Social Democratic voters have said they plan
to cast their ballots, a low figure in Finland which is expected
to help the Conservatives, whose voters are expected to be more
active.


In the last general election in 2003, the Centre Party won by
just 6,000 votes, and in 1999 the Social Democrats won by a
margin of 10,000.

