

Maverick Zambian opposition leader Michael Sata was detained by
police and deported by immigration authorities when he arrived in
Malawi, immigration officials said Friday.


A Malawian official who works at the immigration headquarters in
the commercial capital of Blantyre said Sata had flown into the
country Thursday to meet with opposition leaders.


"Sata was detained as soon as he arrived at Chileka airport
around mid-day. He was detained the whole day at Blantyre police
station and was deported later," the official, speaking on
condition of anonymity, told AFP.


He said the Zambian opposition chief was deported and driven back
during the night to the Zambian border town of Chipata, 500
kilometres (312 miles) from Blantyre, and handed over to Zambian
authorities.


The official said immigration authorities received "instructions
from the government for Sata not to meet the opposition."


A Zambian immigration official confirmed the deportation but had
been given no further details.


"Sata left Zambia yesterday for Malawi and was cleared by Zambian
immigration because he had all the documentation needed for his
travel," said immigration spokesperson Mulako Mbangweta.


"But I am not being told why the Malawian authorities decided to
deport him because all his papers were certified by the Zambian
authorities.


"Sata was handed to the Zambian immigration officers last night
where he was briefly detained. He was later released because he
had all the correct documentation for his travel. We have not
been furnished with any details by the Malawian immigration."


The opposition leader, who heads the Patriotic Front, has
recently criticized Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa, punching
holes in government policies and providing populist alternatives
which are attracting the poor.


It was not clear which opposition groups Sata wanted to meet, but
last month veteran Malawi opposition figure Gwanda Chakuamba went
to Zambia and claimed to have meet Mwanawasa and other leaders.

