

Jose Mourinho has emphasised the importance of Frank Lampard to
Chelsea following speculation about the midfielder's future,
describing him as unique' in European football.


Lampard's agent Steve Kutner was pictured on the back pages of
English national newspapers, allegedly meeting Juventus
officials, sparking conspiracy theories that Lampard could be set
for a transfer.


But Mourinho says he has sat down with both Lampard and Chelsea
captain John Terry to encourage them to sign new contracts
currently on offer at Stamford Bridge.


"I speak a lot with them," the Portuguese said at a press
conference at the club's ground in west London.


"They are captains and we sit together more times than with other
players.


"I told them first of all what they have in their hearts is more
important than any advice. I don't want to make decisions for
players, I want to educate my kids to make their own decisions -
good decisions but their decisions.


"But my opinion is they belong to Chelsea, they belong to
Chelsea's history. So when people have such strong links and
feelings and success together I think there is no reason for a
change. I would love to see them both be part of Chelsea's
history until the end.


"Of course if a player has another dream and wants to play in
another country, in another club, that's something I cannot
interfere with.


"But I was very, very obvious with them to say, especially if I
stay here until 2010, that I would love to have them with me
because they are special players and special personalities."


It is the word if' that will continue to create concerns for
Chelsea supporters who have had to endure almost constant
speculation that Mourinho is preparing to leave Stamford Bridge
this summer.


Mourinho added: "It's football, there is always an if'. But I
repeat it 50 times in the last 10 days, I want to stay at
Chelsea."


Whether he stays or not, Mourinho is clear about the importance
of Lampard to Chelsea's long-term future, especially just a few
days after the England midfielder scored his 20th goal of a
remarkable season to beat Manchester City away from home.


The Portuguese, whose team face Sheffield United this weekend,
said: "I think I found the correct word for Lamps when I said he
was unique'. Because no other midfield player scores so many
goals.


"Football is about performance and objective analysis of
performance and when a midfield player, who is not a number 10
free to play without defensive jobs but who is a pure midfield
player, scores so many goals then he is the only one in Europe
who does that."


Mourinho further dismissed concerns that Lampard, also linked
with Barcelona, could take advantage of new rules allowing
players over the age of 28 to enter into negotiations to buy out
the last two years of their contract.


He said: "I think the first time a big club does that with a big
player it would be very funny because everybody else can do the
same after that.


"Every big club has players in this situation so when somebody is
hurt by that, do you think somebody will be just crying? When
that happens with a big player and a big club I want to see what
happens."


Both Lampard and Terry are expected to line up against Sheffield
United this weekend, aiming to reduce the gap between Chelsea and
Premiership leaders Manchester United which currently stands at
six points.


Mourinho said: "We are keeping our hopes alive in relation to the
title. My team is strong, is together, has belief and is ready to
go all the way."

