

Thousands of people are expected to converge at the White House
Friday in the first of several demonstrations marking the fourth
anniversary of the increasingly unpopular Iraq war, organizers
said.


Christian Peace Witness for Iraq has organized a worship for
Friday night at Washington's National Cathedral to be attended by
4,000 people who will then hold a candlelight procession to the
White House, the anti-war group said.


A vigil will take place in front of US President George W. Bush's
official residence and 700 people have indicated their readiness
to be arrested in an act of civil disobedience, the group said.


The group has billed the event as the biggest Christian peace
demonstration since the March 20, 2003, US-led invasion of Iraq,
but rain and possible snow forecast for Washington could dampen
attendance.


Anti-war activists have heavily mobilized since Democrats took
control of Congress from Bush's Republicans in November elections
marked by voter anger at the war.


Activists want the Democratic-led Congress to push hard for the
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq, where more than 3,200 American
soldiers and tens of thousands of Iraqi civilians have died since
the war began.


Tens of thousands of people are expected to demonstrate Saturday
in a march from downtown Washington to the Defense Department's
Pentagon headquarters, said protest organizer Act Now to Stop War
and End Racism (ANSWER).


"We're feeling a shift in the general population of the country
who are now opposed to the war and are now thinking about doing
something about it, not only about voting but becoming active in
the anti-war struggle," ANSWER spokesman Bill Hackwell told AFP.


The war has grown increasingly unpopular, with recent polls
showing that a majority of Americans now say the invasion was a
mistake and want the US government to set a timetable for the
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq.


Hackwell said more Americans are demanding change because too
much money is being spent on the war rather than social needs
like health care, education and employment.


"It is not an exaggeration to make this connection about the
funding that gets cut for needed social programs and the money
going to the Pentagon," he said.


War veterans and their families will lead the march starting at
12:30 pm (1630 GMT) Saturday.


Other anti-war events are planned in the next few days across the
country.


In Los Angeles, thousands of protesters are expected to take the
streets of Hollywood Saturday and another ANSWER demonstration is
expected in San Francisco.


United for Peace and Justice, which describes itself as the
largest anti-war coalition in the United States, said it was
expecting thousands of people to turn up at a protest in New York
on Sunday.


"The national anti-war movement is planning a unified surge of
protest actions calling on Congress to end the occupation and for
the immediate withdrawal of US troops," the group said in a
statement.


The leftist group MoveOn.org is also organizing candlelight
vigils for Monday in Washington and across the country, spokesman
Steve Hoffman said.


The protests come on the heels of congressional votes on Iraq.


Democrats failed to pass in the Senate a plan to withdraw US
troops by March 2008, although a measure calling for a pullout by
September 2008 passed a key panel in the House of Representatives
Thursday.

