

More than a thousand unarmed protesters demanded the removal of a
US military base from east Baghdad's Sadr City on Friday, in the
first sign of Shiite opposition to a new security plan.


Sadr City is a stronghold of radical cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's
Mahdi Army militia and there had been fears that US and Iraqi
forces would face violent opposition as they tried to gain
control of the vast slum district.


Instead, Sadr's black-clad militia fighters melted away as the
plan went into effect last month, and last week troops and police
taking part in the operation were able to set up a "Joint
Security Station" in the area.


On Thursday, however, one of Sadr City's two mayors who
negotiated with the Americans and welcomed the creation of the
fortified base was shot and wounded by unidentified gunmen, who
killed a police colonel travelling with him.


Then, after Friday's weekly prayers, large crowds of Shiite
worshippers unfurled banners demanding the base be abandoned and
chanted: "No, no to America. No, no to Israel. No, no to Satan."


Armed and uniformed members of the US-trained Iraqi security
forces joined in some of the chants, but there was no open
display by militia fighters.


A tract distributed among the crowds by Sadr's office denounced
what it described as "bases for the occupier on the lands of Sadr
City".


Sadr himself was not present -- the US military believes he has
gone to ground in Iraq's Shiite neighbour Iran -- but supporters
carried his portrait and read out a statement he had apparently
sent to them.


"The occupiers wanted to distort the reputation of the city and
issued propaganda saying there are talks and cooperation between
you and them. I am confident that you regard them as your enemy,"
he said.


"Don't surrender to them. You are their betters," he added.


The protest and the shooting of Mayor Rakim al-Darraji will be of
concern to both the US military and Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki's beleaguered Shiite-led government, which have been
pleased by the lack of violence in Sadr City.


More then 90,000 Iraqi and US troops have been deployed around
Baghdad as part of Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law), an
ambitious plan to regain control of the city and quell sectarian
violence between Sunnis and Shiites.


Since it was formally launched one month ago there has been
little of the anticipated resistance and the city's murder rate
is down sharply, although Sunni insurgents have continued to
detonate car bombs almost daily.


On Thursday, before he heard of Darraji's shooting, the US
commander in Baghdad said he had been pleasantly surprised by the
calm in Sadr City.


"We've had a really good response from the people in the area.
There's been no push-back at all so far from the Jaish al-Mahdi,"
General Joseph Fil said, using the Arabic term for Sadr's Mahdi
Army.


Sadr's position on the Baghdad security plan has been ambiguous.


While a supporter of Maliki's government, the cleric is also a
firm opponent of the US presence in Iraq, and has urged his
Shiite supporters and the Iraqi security forces not to cooperate
with what he calls "the enemy occupier".

