

Ethiopia on Friday called for international pressure on Eritrea,
which it accuses of holding eight Ethiopians still missing after
the release of five European captives this week.


A British embassy group of five people, abducted in the northeast
Ethiopian desert on March 1, was released on Tuesday in Eritrea,
but eight Ethiopian drivers and guides accompanying them are
still missing.


"We have to keep up the pressure. The international community
should also put the pressure on the Eritrean government to
release the eight Ethiopian hostages," Ethiopian foreign ministry
spokesman Soloman Abebe told AFP.


"The media should work as they were working before when the
Europeans were kidnapped," Abebe said, the day after the much-
publicised return to Britain of the five ex-captives -- three
British men, one British-Italian woman and a French woman.


But Abebe added that there was no news on efforts to release the
Ethiopian captives.


Eritrea, which has strongly denied any involvement in the
abduction, rejected Ethiopia's statement, claiming it was a ploy
to damage Asmara's reputation.


Eritrean Information Minister Ali Abdu said its arch-foe was
lying to curry favour with the United States, which Asmara
accuses of backing Ethiopia to destabilise Eritrea.


"They are not in Eritrea," Ali told AFP by telephone from Asmara.


"It is just bluffing, with the aim of trying to gain some kind of
smiling face from the administration in Washington."


Asmara blames Ethiopian rebels in the Afar region for the
abduction.


Britain's foreign office and the former captives have shown
caution in blaming anybody for the abductions in remote territory
close to the border over which Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a war
in 1998-2000.


In a statement after their release, the group expressed concern
for the eight Ethiopians among 13 who had been with them. Five of
the Ethiopians were freed three days after the abduction.


More than 50 Ethiopians and Europeans held prayers in Addis Ababa
on Thursday evening for the release of the remaining Ethiopian
captives.

