

Zimbabwe's fractious opposition said Friday that a government
crackdown had brought the feuding factions back together and
focused their energies on their common foe, President Robert
Mugabe.


The Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), once seen as the
biggest threat to Mugabe's rule, has been a shadow of its former
self since late 2005 when it split in two in a dispute over
whether to contest Senate elections.


But both sides insisted at a press conference Friday they would
now work together following the events of the last week, which
has seen both factions' leaders arrested and then beaten.


"We let down Zimbabweans in 2006 by bickering and name calling
among ourselves," said Tendai Biti, secretary general of the main
MDC faction led by Morgan Tsvangirai.


"We are not going to allow that to continue."


The split in MDC ranks came after Tsvangirai, the one-time trade
union leader who set up the MDC in 1999, expelled 26 senior
figures a fortnight before elections he warned would be rigged.


The renegades, who had opposed Tsvangirai's decision to boycott
the polls, refused to accept their expulsion and set up a
splinter group led by former student leader Arthur Mutambara.


Until last weekend, the divisions had enabled Mugabe to remain
largely unchallenged despite the prevailing economic crisis which
has seen inflation soar to 1,730 percent and stores run out of
cooking oil and sugar.


But Mutambara and Tsvangirai made a point of standing alongside
each other in the dock on Tuesday where they were to have faced
charges over attempts to take part in a rally last Sunday
organised by the Save Zimbabwe Campaign.


"If Robert Mugabe and his people thought they were confronting a
divided opposition they are wrong," Mutambara said Friday.


"Yes, we have differences but we are going to manage our
differences."


Similar sentiments came from Thokozani Khupe, deputy head of the
Tsvangirai faction, who said solidarity among the opposition was
crucial.


"For me a normal person should realise that we need unity of
purpose," Khupe told AFP.


"It's now time to say all democratic forces in Zimbabwe have to
now work together."


According to John Makumbe, a political scientist from the
University of Zimbabwe, it may be too early to expect a formal
reunification but the events of the last week had brought them
closer together.


"The prospects look good and the onus is on the Save Zimbabwe
Campaign, particularly the Christian Alliance, to push the two
camps to settle their differences and focus on the core business
to access power," said Makumbe.


"We have seen in the past week, the two sides walking side by
side. The prospects look good as we approach 2008 for them to
work together. It would benefit the nation. They will become
stronger."


Trudy Stevenson, a lawmaker loyal to Mutambara, was the victim of
an assault last year that she blamed on Tsvangirai supporters.


She told AFP that talk of divisions was "all ZANU propaganda",
referring to Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union - Patriotic
Front (ZANU-PF) party.


"They want to cause the division in the opposition. The two (MDC)
sides basically have the same policies so there is no way we
can't work together," she added.


There were already signs of a thaw between the two factions
before police crushed last Sunday's rally as both were among the
23 groups who agreed at a meeting in December to unite under
banner of the "Save Zimbabwe Campaign".


The campaign's formation came on the day as Mugabe tried to build
up support for a plan to delay presidential elections from 2008
until 2010.


"They can now see their differences are cosmetic," said the
political commentator Bill Saidi.


"Both men (Mutambara and Tsvangirai) can see that as far as the
people are concerned they should be one.... The opposition will
score higher as a united front rather than as disunited
factions."

