

Democrats in Congress are vowing to wage an escalating battle to
thwart President George W. Bush's plan to stay in Iraq, convinced
they have a winning strategy, despite fierce White House
resistance.


While failing to ram a bill setting a goal for the withdrawal of
US combat troops from Iraq by March 2008 through the Senate on
Thursday, the party is determined to continually ratchet up
political pressure over the war.


Convinced their capture of Congress in elections last November
was rooted in opposing the conflict, they are vowing to force
Bush to bring US troops home from Iraqi battlefields where more
than 3,200 of their comrades have died.


The focus of the Democrats' political battle will next week
switch from the Senate to the House of Representatives, due to
debate Bush's 124 billion dollar budget request for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan.


The key House Appropriations Committee on Thursday voted to
include the Democrat's plan for a timetable which would get
troops out of Iraq by September 2008, at the latest, in the vast
spending bill.


The full House is set to debate the bill in a politically charged
atmosphere next week.


Like the Senate legislation, had it passed, Bush has vowed to
veto any measure which emerges from the House which bears any
resemblance to a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq.


So while the Democratic legislation appears to have almost zero
chance of becoming law, it forms a key cog in the party's
strategy of piling political heat on Republicans ahead of
congressional and presidential elections in 2008.


"The Democratic proposals on Iraq are not designed to actually
force the White House on a different course," said Steven
Clemons, an analyst with the New America Foundation think-tank.


"They are designed to help make the American public think that
the Democrats have strong, alternative ideas, but not to have any
of them ultimately adopted. "The Democrats do not want to own
this war; they want Bush to own this war -- all the way up until
the next presidential race."


That is why majority leader Harry Reid stepped out of the Senate
chamber Thursday and paradoxically declared it had been a "good
day" for Democrats, even though their end-the-war plan had been
voted down.


"The Republicans are rubber-stamping the president's failed
policy, that is the message here," Reid told reporters.


Republicans are hitting back at Democrats, accusing them of
trying to micromanage the Iraq war from their safe perch in
Congress, as the rhetorical battle becomes ever more bitter.


"Setting timelines is no different than handing the enemy our war
plan itself," said House minority leader John Boehner on
Thursday.


"It serves as a road map for the terrorists to plot maneuvers
against American men and women in uniform."


But while Democrats are convinced their strategy is sound, they
do risk alienating the party's fiercely anti-war political base,
which is demanding more than maneuvering in the corridors of
power and wants a quick end to US involvement in the war.


Anti-war demonstrators are expected to mount a show of force on
Saturday with a march on the Pentagon military headquarters
outside Washington, and are taking heart from a poll in the USA
Today newspaper which found a record 59 percent of Americans now
believe the Iraq war was a mistake.


California Democratic Representative Barbara Lee, a fierce
opponent of the war, is warning Democrats must demand the
withdrawal of all US troops before the end of the year.


"If we believe that the occupation should end and we reject the
President's escalation scheme ... we shouldn't be funding them.


"If we are not playing along with the charade that the escalation
is working, there is no reason not to withdraw our troops by
Christmas."


Democratic leaders have however been wary of using Congress's
power to cut the purse strings for the war, fearing that
Republicans will be able to portray them as deserting the troops,
as they are fighting for their lives in battle.

