

British Prime Minister Tony Blair sought to bolster support for
his governing Labour Party in Scotland Friday ahead of Scottish
Parliament elections that could see large nationalist gains.


But he immediately entered a row over Scottish independence after
one of the leading businessmen north of the border with England
gave his strong public backing to Labour's main rival, the
Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP).


Former Royal Bank of Scotland chairman George Mathewson accused
Labour of scaremongering over the effects of independence and
said SNP leader Alex Salmond should head the devolved parliament
in Edinburgh.


"I do not share the fear of independence which is currently being
fostered by those who have most to lose by a change in the status
quo and those who see Scotland as a source of safe seats, thus
guaranteeing their rule over the United Kingdom," he wrote in a
letter to The Scotsman newspaper.


Mathewson also criticised Blair's main argument against
independence -- the financial consequences for the Scottish
economy.


Blair hit back, saying businesses and families would be hard hit
by an end to the 300-year-old union between England and Scotland.


"It's absurd to say that there is not going to be a cost and a
penalty, particularly when the SNP have got unfunded commitments,
proposals for a local income tax, and when our two economies are
so closely integrated," he said.


"There is a risk to the economy, there is a risk to the family
from separation itself and from the policies of the SNP."


Blair was in Edinburgh to launch a Labour document claiming SNP
policies would leave a "black hole" in the Scottish economy and
see every Scot paying more than 5,000 pounds (7,300 euros, 9,700
dollars) extra in tax each year.


His visit coincided with an SNP-commissioned poll published
Friday indicating only 22 percent of Scots thought Blair had been
a good prime minister for Scotland and 63 percent said they felt
"let down" by the Labour government.


The YouGov poll of 1,144 people also found that only 20 percent
believed Blair -- who was born in Edinburgh and educated at the
fee-paying Fettes College -- cared about Scotland.


The SNP, which is committed to holding a referendum on
independence if elected, has been ahead of Labour in three
separate polls since the start of this year.

