

Tens of thousands of striking Airbus workers rallied across
Europe Friday to protest management plans to cut 10,000 jobs
under a sweeping restructuring scheme at the struggling aircraft
manufacturer.


Mass demonstrations took place in northern Germany, southern
Spain and in France in a rare show of cross-border union activism
against a programme that management says is vital to rescuing
Airbus.


"We have shown today that workers at the European level are
speaking with a single voice," declared Peter Scherrer, head of
the European Metalworking Federation, speaking in Paris outside
the headquaters of Airbus parent company EADS.


In Hamburg in Germany, 42-year-old Johannes Budde, who has worked
for Airbus for 18 years, said worker solidarity was the key to
forcing management to scrap the overhaul, dubbed Power8.


"It's only in standing shoulder to shoulder that we will be able
to demonstrate our strength to management," he said, noting in
anger that Airbus wanted to slash jobs at a time when its books
were healthy.


"Despite our success, they're cutting jobs. But this
demonstration sends a good signal to management -- they have to
understand that without us they can't work."


Organizers said 25,000 people turned out for demonstrations in
Hamburg and elsewhere in Germany, 7,000 in Toulouse, where Airbus
is headquartered, 4,000 at three other sites in France and 9,000
at seven Spanish locations.


Police estimated the gathereing at 10,000 in Hamburg and 5,500 in
Toulouse.


Airbus insists that its financial and production difficulties are
"extremely serious" and that it can no longer delay making cost
savings.


The cuts, together with the total or partial disposal of six
sites, are intended to save 5.0 billion euros (6.6 billion
dollars) by 2010 and pull the company out of a crisis caused by
delays to its A380 superjumbo programme, seen as critical to
Airbus' bid to catch up with US rival Boeing.


The job losses will target Airbus production sites in France,
Germany, Spain and Britain. Management has also blamed the strong
euro, which makes its products less competitive on world markets
and reduces the value of its dollar-based sales, on the
manufacturer's financial woes.


EADS, the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company, last
week published results revealing a first-ever operating loss at
its Airbus unit of 572 million euros (752 million dollars) in
2006 after a profit of 2.3 billion euros in 2005.


Announcement of the restructuring on February 28 came amid
tension between French and German interests, which dominate EADS,
over where cuts should fall.


In the German state of Lower Saxony where Airbus has two sites,
regional premier Christian Wulff voiced support Friday for the
workers.


But in remarks pointing to underlying tensions between German and
French interests over the plan, Hamburg senator Gunnar Uldall
complained that as French politicians and unions had "turned
Airbus into a national project, we have to do the same."


Daniel Friedrich, a spokesman for the powerful German union IG
Metall, said support from the German federal government would be
necessary to force Airbus bosses to rescind Power8.


He added that it was now up to Airbus management to unveil the
fine points in the plan, after which "we will be able to propose
better solutions, which will takes weeks or months."


Airbus on Thursday received a much needed boost to its business
and credibility when two customers pledged new orders worth 23
billion euros (30 billion dollars).


Qatar Airways said it planned to buy 80 A350 jets for 17.2
billion dollars (13 billion euros) at catalogue prices, one of
the biggest orders in the history of Airbus, and Russian airline
Aeroflot said it would sign a deal for 22 more of the same
aircraft.


The contracts would be a huge win for the mid-sized, longhaul
A350 plane, which was withdrawn and relaunched by Airbus as the
A350XWB last year because of poor feedback on the original
version from potential customers.


EADS shares closed higher Friday, gaining 1.38 percent to reach
22.05 euros on the Paris exchange.

