

Take a bow Vanessa, Geraldine and Maebh, the unheralded stars of
the Irish cricket team.


Without them, Ireland may not have managed their thrilling last
ball World Cup tie against Zimbabwe.


Irish girls all, Vanessa is the wife of skipper Trent Johnston,
Geraldine is married to batsman Jeremy Bray, who made an unbeaten
115 in Thursday's match, while Maebh met Dave Langford-Smith when
the bowler travelled to Ireland to attend Bray's wedding.


The common link? Johnston, Bray and Langford-Smith are all
Australian.


Johnston met Vanessa when he was playing club cricket in Leinster
but then moved to Sydney.


However, the couple returned to Ireland where Johnston was
entitled to an Irish passport through marriage.


He then announced himself as an international player when he took
two wickets in Ireland's famous win over the West Indies two
years ago.


"Ireland is home now. I love the lifestyle - the weather's
different but the people are just as laid back," Johnston told
the Sunday Tribune newspaper.


Bray was Australian player of the year at under-19 level and
played youth tests for his country.


He played for New South Wales but went to Ireland when
girlfriend, Geraldine, returned to care for her seriously ill
father.


Langford-Smith arrived in Ireland for Bray's wedding and met
Maebh.


"We went home for our honeymoon in December 2005 and after a few
weeks I started to feel homesick - for Ireland," said the bowler.


The trio's odyssey enjoyed a glorious stopping-off point here on
Thursday with Ireland's last ball tie in the country's first
World Cup match.


"We have played quite a few games which have gone to the last
ball or the last over," said man-of-the-match Bray, the 12th
opening batsman to carry his bat in a World Cup game.


"But the skipper has always told us to keep fighting and fighting
even when our backs are to the wall."


Bray said he was looking forward to taking on Pakistan in the
next match here on Saturday..


"They are a fantastic side but it's one-day cricket. If we play
to our ability and they have an off-day, anything can happen."

