

Britain stepped up its criticism of Zimbabwe's President Robert
Mugabe on Friday accusing him of action "bordering on crimes
against humanity" in his attempts to suppress opposition.


Foreign Office minister Lord David Triesman called for African
and European nations to step up action against Zimbabwe after the
police beating of Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).


In a BBC radio interview, Triesman was asked whether military
action should be considered against Mugabe, given Britain's
interventionist policy against oppression elsewhere in the world.


"I don't think it would be easy or very practical to engage in
military intervention in Zimbabwe," he said.


"But I do think the actions over quite a period now... look to me
to be bordering on crimes against humanity."


That included Mugabe's suppression of the MDC and the forced
eviction of thousands of people in Harare slums in 2005, he
added.


Triesman's comments came amid growing international calls for
tougher action against Mugabe's regime after the arrest and
assault of Tsvangirai who suffered serious head injuries.


Tsvangirai vowed in a letter published in The Independent
newspaper here Friday to fight on until his country is free and
urged the world to maintain pressure for democratic change.


Triesman echoed Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett's
view Thursday that people involved in the violence against
opposition leaders must be properly identified and be hit by
sanctions such as travel bans and asset freezing.


He also called for African leaders to be "completely explicit" in
condemning Mugabe and the international community, in particular
the European Union and the United Nations, to stand firm.


Beckett herself took a harder line against, accusing him in a BBC
television interview to be broadcast Sunday of waging violence
against opponents as a "deliberate act of policy".


"He is indifferent, I think, to the real horror that's felt right
across the international community."


In an interview with Britain's Sky News television, Tvsangirai,
who left hospital Friday, said he welcomed Beckett's request to
the UN Human Rights Council to send monitors to track down those
responsible for the violence.


"Any international effort visiting this regime combined with
national effort is good," he said.


In his letter, Tsvangirai said he was bloodied but unbowed by the
beating.


"Yes, they brutalised my flesh. But they will never break my
spirit. I will soldier on until Zimbabwe is free."


He said he had not expected the extent and violence of the
suppression, despite knowing Mugabe had banned all opposition
political party meetings and rallies -- and described the current
situation in Zimbabwe.


Mugabe -- who has said critics of his government can "go hang" --
had "criminalised" Zimbabwe's police force and other national
institutions, creating "serious mistrust" which would take
decades to rebuild, he said.

