

An unbroken stand of 71 between Paul Nixon and Liam Plunkett gave
England's bowlers hope after New Zealand had broken the back of
their opponents innings in the teams' opening World Cup Group C
match here Friday.


England, who had slumped to 138 for seven, finished on 209 for
seven with wicket-keeper Nixon 42 not out and Plunkett unbeaten
on 29.


Nixon faced just 41 balls with five fours while paceman
Plunkett's 34-ball stay featured a straight six off left-arm
spinner Daniel Vettori.


However, England may still not have enough runs to play with.


Kevin Pietersen, in his first full international since January
after sustaining a rib injury during the Australia one-dayers,
top scored with 60 but then got himself out.


From 133 for three, England lost four wickets for five runs with
the worst part of the collapse seeing three go down for one run
in seven balls as key batsmen Paul Collingwood (31), Pietersen
and Andrew Flintoff, out for a first ball nought, all fell in
quick succession.


Fast bowler Shane Bond, who finished with two for 19 off his full
10 overs, took two wickets in four balls as Pietersen tamely
holed out to James Franklin at long-on before Flintoff chipped to
Scott Styris at short cover.


Styris (two for 25) had started the slump when, two balls after
dropping Collingwood off his own bowling, he saw an attempted
guide to third man well- held by Brendon McCullum - one of four
catches for the wicket-keeper.


Pietersen and Collingwood's fourth-wicket stand of 81 was the
best of the innings but, with New Zealand captain Stephen
Fleming's bowling changes often yielding a wicket, the Black Caps
were on top for the most part.


Fleming, on a pitch freshened by early morning rain, which
delayed the start by 30 minutes, saw his decision to field first
quickly rewarded when left-arm quick Franklin struck with the
day's second ball when Irish-born Ed Joyce was caught behind for
nought after slashing outside his off-stump.


First change Jacob Oram took a wicket with his fifth ball when
Ian Bell (five) edged behind after advancing down the pitch.


England's 30 for two in the ninth over almost became 32 for three
in the 11th when Pietersen went for a risky single to get off the
mark.


Vettori quickly threw from mid-off to the far end where Vaughan,
on 20, was yards out.


But McCullum failed to gather and the England skipper, battling a
hamstring injury that saw him play just three games in his side's
victorious tri-series campaign in Australia concluded last month,
survived.


Vaughan's mini-repreive didn't last long, Franklin bowling him
for 26 after he bottom-egded a pull into his stumps.


Pietersen, after rebuilding with Collingwood, opened up with a
six over long-on against off-spinner Jeetan Patel before
completing a 73 ball-fifty also featuring four fours.


England and New Zealand - who beat each other twice in Australia
- are firm favourites to qualify from a group also featuring
Kenya and Canada.


Assuming both Test sides do go through, the winners of this match
will carry forward two points into the second phase, Super Eight
stage.

