

Ahead of a two-week deadline, the United States and South Korea
expressed optimism Friday of crafting an ambitious free trade
agreement as they prepared for the final stretch of tough
negotiations.


"We've come a long way, we still have a way to go but I firmly
believe we can get there by the end of March," chief US
negotiator Wendy Cutler told a forum in Washington.


She said quality would not be sacrificed in the rush to complete
the deal, the biggest free trade pact since the 1993 North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).


"Let me just say that it is not going to be any deal. I believe
we can achieve a high quality, comprehensive and balanced deal
that both (sides) can take home and get the necessary
stakeholders' support to get through the  respective legislative
bodies," she said.


US President George W. Bush's powers to fast-track trade
agreements expire in June. That gives US negotiators up to March
31 to present a deal for a mandatory 90-day Congressional review
that would then be subject to just an outright yes- or-no vote
without amendments.


Wendy said after negotiations at the officials-level the coming
week, a "handful" of outstanding and sensitive issues could be
taken up with the top leadership of the two countries for final
resolution.


When the eighth round of negotiations in Seoul ended last week,
the two sides had closed three chapters of the prospective deal
-- on customs, competition and government procurement, Cutler
said.


In seven other chapters -- general services, financial services,
market access, transparency, telecommunications, e-commerce and
standards -- "we are very, very close" to meeting targets, she
said.


On the most sensitive areas facing the United States --
automotives, agriculture and pharmaceuticals -- Cutler said "we
have no breakthroughs but I would say that the outlines of the
deal on these issues is definitely becoming clearer."


Choi Seak Young, South Korea's minister for economic affairs and
trade at the embassy in Washington, also expressed confidence the
two sides could meet the deadline.


"I am also optimistic that the deal will be done by end of
March," he told the forum.


He said the upbeat mood stemmed from three critical factors --
strong political commitment at the highest levels of both
countries, strong support from their private sectors and
"dramatically diminishing" skepticism that prevailed last year.


"Both sides have kept a high level of ambition and at same time
showed flexibility towards the deal," Choi said.

