

Bird flu has killed a 32-year-old man in Indonesia, taking the
death toll in the nation worst hit by the disease to 65, an
official said Friday.


"The man died on Wednesday in Jakarta," said Nadhirin, a doctor
at the Bird Flu Information Centre, adding details of how he
caught the disease remained unclear.


But the health ministry later said the man kept a parrot at home.
Most victims have had some contact with sick or infected birds.


The health ministry's statement said there were no reports of
other people suffering from influenza-like illnesses in his
neighbourhood. The victim, who died in hospital, was the
capital's 22nd bird flu fatality.


Indonesia detected its first human bird flu sufferer in mid-2005
and the dead man was the 86th confirmed case.


In an attempt to stop the spread of the virus, the government has
banned residents in the capital from keeping poultry in their
back yards, a popular practice in the sprawling city.


The Bird Flu Information Centre said Monday that a 20-year-old
woman was critically ill with the disease and being treated in a
hospital in Surabaya, the country's second-largest city.


The virus has killed 169 people worldwide, mostly in Southeast
Asia, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), and the
global spread of the deadly H5N1 strain is being closely tracked.


Laos confirmed its second human death from the virus on Friday, a
woman who died earlier this month, authorities there said.


Countries typically share samples from human cases with
international WHO reference laboratories in the fight against the
disease, but Indonesia said in February it had stopped sending
samples abroad.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari has asked for a legal
guarantee that the samples will not be exploited by drugs firms
to develop costly vaccines sold back to developing nations.


The issue is to be discussed at an international bird flu meeting
in Jakarta later this month.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They fear the H5N1 strain could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of history, as past influenza
pandemics have killed millions. One in 1918, just after the end
of World War I, killed some 20 million people worldwide.

