

Britain on Friday called for a briefing of the UN Security
Council on what it called "the appalling events" in Zimbabwe,
referring to the police beating of opposition chief Morgan
Tsvangirai.


"I have asked for a briefing from the (UN) secretariat on the
humanitarian situation in Zimbabwe," Britain's UN envoy Emyr
Jones Parry told reporters.


He said the focus would be on "the appalling events of last week"
-- the police assault on Tsvangirai -- and Zimbabwe's "economic
meltdown." Inflation in the former British colony stands at 1,730
percent and unemployment at 80 percent.


Jones Parry said London was also raising the crackdown on the
Zimbabwe opposition before the Human Rights Council in Geneva.


The British envoy said he was not contemplating stronger action
in the Security Council, such as a draft resolution censuring the
Harare government.


In July 2005, Britain also requested and obtained a Security
Council briefing on Zimbabwe after the release of a scathing UN
report on Harare's  slum demolition drive that left 700,000
Zimbabweans homeless and affected a further 2.4 million.


Jones Parry's latest move is part of a British drive to step up
criticism of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe amid
international calls for tougher action against Harare after the
arrest and assault of Tsvangirai who suffered serious head
injuries.


In a BBC radio interview, Foreign Office minister Lord David
Triesman accused Mugabe of action "bordering on crimes against
humanity" in his attempts to suppress opposition.


That included Mugabe's suppression of Tsvangirai's Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) and the forced eviction of thousands of
people in Harare slums in 2005, he added.


Mugabe has accused the MDC of instigating the weekend violence,
while Tsvangirai was discharged from hospital Friday following
his arrest for trying to attend a banned demonstration on Sunday.


Tsvangirai left hospital Friday after being told he is out of
danger and had suffered no brain damage.


Zimbabwe's relations have been frosty with its former colonial
master Britain, from which it gained independence in 1980,
notably after Harare started seizing white-owned farms six years
ago.

