

Wall Street shares turned lower in late Friday morning trading
following a stronger-than-expected snapshot on inflation days
before the US Federal Reserve meets to mull US interest rates.


The market also continued to be overshadowed by lingering
investor concern about the health of the country's vast mortgage
market, analysts said.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 30.44 points (0.25
percent) at 12,129.24 at 1650 GMT despite opening higher.


The Nasdaq composite meanwhile had fallen 8.94 points (0.38
percent) to 2,369.76 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's
500 lost 2.81 points (0.20 percent) to 1,389.47.


Analysts said the latest inflation reading would likely cement a
decision next week by the Fed to keep US interest rates on hold
at 5.25 percent. The Fed, which has cited inflation as one of its
key concerns, meets Tuesday and Wednesday to mull US rates.


The Labor Department said Friday that US consumer prices rose 0.4
percent in February, stronger than the 0.3 percent rise widely
expected by Wall Street.


The core inflation reading, which strips out volatile food and
energy costs, rose 0.2 percent and was in line with forecasts.


"Prices moderated for vehicles and personal electronics, but most
other categories showed gains," Wachovia economists said in a
note to investors.


"The Fed is not out of the woods with respect to inflation, so
despite slowing growth, expect another hold from policymakers
next week," the economists added.


"The Fed anticipates a reduction of inflation and over time we
agree. The problem is that the decline is not fast enough to give
the Fed maneuvering room at present," agreed Stephen Gallagher,
an economist at Societe Generale.


Separately, the Fed reported that US industrial production
rebounded by a much stronger-than-expected 1.0 percent in
February after falling in the prior month.


Most economists had been expecting the central bank's monthly
snapshot of the nation's vast industrial sector, measuring the
output of US factories, mines and utilities, to show a rise of
just 0.3 percent.


The jump in industrial output across the United States, the
strongest gain since November 2005, was largely attributed to a
cranking up of gas and electricity output from the nation's
utilities amid cold winter temperatures.


On the stock front, mortgage groups remained under the microscope
amid ongoing concerns about loans to so-called "subprime"
borrowers, or people who have troubled credit histories.


Countrywide's stock was down 26 cents at 35.21 dollars while
Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., was up a strong 2.13 dollars
at 11.56 dollars after announcing it had reached a deal to sell
2.7 billion dollars of its loan portfolio.


Drug distributor Caremark Rx meanwhile announced its shareholders
had approved a 26.5-billion-dollar merger with the CVS retail
pharmacy group after fending off a rival takeover bid from
Express Scripts.


Tennessee-based Caremark's shares were down 66 cents at 62.09
dollars while CVS, which welcomed the shareholder approval, was
56 cents lower at 32.78 dollars.


Discount air carrier JetBlue's stock was down 10 cents at 11.80
dollars after announcing possible flight delays across the
country amid harsh weather forecasts predicting snow flurries in
some regions.


Bond prices dropped as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.555 percent from 4.534 percent Thursday and that
on the 30-year bond rose to 4.707 percent from 4.692 percent.


Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

