

Gunmen opened fire on a convoy of Benin President Yayi Boni, in
an attack 10 days ahead of a general election that left at least
four of his guards wounded, officials said Friday.


Boni escaped unhurt from the incident late Thursday in the centre
of the small west African country.


"The head of state is unharmed. But unfortunately, in the
exchange of fire between the presidential guard and the attackers
four members of the presidential guard were wounded",
presidential advisor Edga Guididi said in a television interview.


At least five people armed with Kalashnikov and other automatic
weapons opened fire as the president returned from a meeting in
the village of Ouesse, half-way between his native Tchaourou and
Parakou, 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of the main city,
Cotonou, Guididi said.


"Four members of the presidential guard were wounded. The
assailants fled to the bush. The head of state is well,
unharmed," he added.


Though the attack came 10 days from the legislative election that
will be Boni's first major electoral test, some sources said the
attackers might have been highway robbers who attacked before
realizing who was in the vehicles.


The presidential advisor said that the attack had been carried
out "as if it was a hold-up".


Boni was a political unknown before his surprise election victory
12 months ago that displeased many political heavyweights in the
west African country.


"Just how far will the mafia go in preventing him (Boni) from
carrying out the mission the people gave him?" Guididi said.


"It is clear that it is the handiwork of the mafia, who feel
threatened and hunted by the policy of sanitizing public spending
embarked upon by Boni and his government," Guididi added.


"The incident will not stop the president's fight for a fair and
equitable share of the country's wealth. Each Beninois will have
what is due to him from his sweat," he said.


Elected 74 percent of the vote, former banker Boni made "change",
economic growth and fight against corruption a major plank of his
campaign.


He inherited one of the world's poorest nations. Its economic
crisis has been aggravated by corruption and poor management of
public funds.


Economic growth which reached 6.2 percent in 2001, went down to
about 3.4 percent in 2004.


Boni has ordered several audits into 60 state-run enterprises and
demanded state debtors pay up, in moves which observers said made
him unpopular among old hands who believed in "business as
usual".


But Boni remains popular with ordinary Beninois however.


"He should forge ahead, we his people are behind him and he has
nothing to fear,", said Marcellin Goho, an operator of "zemidjan"
motor-taxis, which are all over the streets of Cotonou.

