

Kauto Star joined the jumping greats when landing Friday's Gold
Cup at Cheltenham to bag his connections a one million pound
(1.5m dollar) bonus.


Trained by Paul Nicholls and ridden by Ruby Walsh the 5-4
favourite jumped to the front two fences from home and got away
with a minor mistake at the last to comfortably hold Exotic
Dancer in second with Turpin Green in third.


Owner Clive Smith, who has piled on the cash on his brilliant
seven-year-old from odds of 140-1, was not only celebrating
capturing the jumping blue riband but also pocketing the seven
figure bonus put up by internet betting exchange firm Betfair.


Kauto Star hit the jackpot for adding the Gold Cup to his wins in
the Betfair Gold Cup and King George VI Chase where he was
followed home as here by Jonjo O'Neill's Exotic Dancer.


Kauto Star had plenty of doubters in the run up to the race with
many questioning his alarming tendency to clout the occasional
fence in his previous wins, and whether he had the stamina to
last up the gruelling Cheltenham hill.


But he silenced his critics in no uncertain terms, jumping
impeccably aside from his last fence hiccup and staying on
strongly up the famous hill.


"He's some horse isn't he! Every horse has his doubters. But he
is a wonderful horse," said the Irishman.


As for Nicholls he was only too pleased to have silence the
doubters.


"Never in racing have I heard so much rubbish written about a
horse," said the trainer.


"He's won six races on the trot. I said to Ruby you go out there
and do what you want to. He (the owner) has left it to us and
he's been brilliant. I can't tell you how nervewracking it has
been in the last month."


Smith said: "He gave me a little coronary at the last but this
has been my dream since 1974 when I first came to the Gold Cup.


"Paul (Nicholls) has had him spot on all the way through," he
added before going off to count his cash.


Earlier Jockey Robert Thornton and trainer Alan King celebrated
their third winner of the week when teaming up to land the
opening Triumph Hurdle on Katchit.


And champion jockey Tony McCoy finally broke his duck at this
year's meeting landing the three mile novice hurdle on Wichita
Lineman.


McCoy has had a hapless time of it this week, notably when
falling heavily on hot favourite Black Jack Ketchum in Thursday's
World Hurdle.


"I thought Black Jack was going to break his neck which would
have killed him and could have killed me," the Irishman recalled.


Turning to Wichita Lineman's success McCoy said: "I was worried
three out that he would be beaten but he's got a great attitude
and is tough."


McCoy was left streets clear after his main rival Black Harry
took a heavy tumble at the last.

