

German Chancellor Angela Merkel began a visit to Poland Friday
with a call for the two central European neighbours to draw
lessons from their painful past and build a strong future as
partners.


"Poland plays a central role in the political thinking and
actions of every German chancellor," Merkel said in a speech
given at Warsaw University shortly after she arrived in the
Polish capital.


"For Germany and Poland to live well together, today and in
future, we must draw lessons from the darkest period in our
history," she said, referring to World War II, during which "more
than six million Poles lost their lives because of the Germans."


"Only if we Germans wholly accept our past, can we build the
future."


Merkel's visit to Poland is aimed at patching up relations
between Warsaw and Berlin, which have seen the historic wound of
the German occupation of Poland in World War II reopened since
Poland's conservative twins -- President Lech Kaczynski and Prime
Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski  -- came to power.


One issue gnawing at relations between the two neighbours is the
issue of Germans who were expelled at the end of World War II
from Polish territory.


They were among some 14 million German civilians who were
displaced, deported or expelled from their homes in eastern
Europe from 1944 onwards as the Soviet Red Army advanced and
Germany's Third Reich crumbled.


Merkel has in the past spoken out in favour of a proposed centre
for Germany's war displaced -- a project that Poland under the
Kaczynskis has bitterly opposed, saying it is an attempt to
portray Germans as war victims.


On Friday in Warsaw -- a city which was almost entirely destroyed
by the Nazis at the end of the war -- Merkel said that Germany's
war displaced have the right to "look back on their fate with
dignity."


"Let me say openly, that as German chancellor, I understand and
support the Germans who at the end of World War II were painfully
forced from their homeland, and their right to look back on their
fate with dignity.


"Dignity would, to my mind, come from not just the Germans who
were expelled or fled, but also all others, including Poles,
being allowed to remember their pain and, above all, for it to be
made clear that history cannot and will not be rewritten," Merkel
said.


Before her speech at Warsaw University, the German chancellor
briefly met with her Polish counterpart Jaroslaw Kaczynksi at
Warsaw airport, where he was about to leave for Denmark.


Despite the quickness of their talks, the two leaders covered
several key issues on the agenda of Merkel's visit including
bilateral relations, the proposed US anti-missile shield, part of
which is to be based in Poland, and the stalled European Union
constitution which Germany, current holder of the EU presidency,
wants to relaunch.


"I hope that we will be able to move forward, that we will be
able to resolve many issues together and explain many more
issues," Kaczynski told a press conference at the airport.


In her speech at the university, Merkel urged Poles and Germans
to "keep working to make old fears, worries and even prejudices
disappear", but assured that "a lot of hard work has already been
done."

