

A group of German soldiers are contesting the military's decision
to send Tornado jets to Afghanistan to carry out surveillance
missions for NATO, the defence ministry confirmed on Friday.


Officers have published a letter in the online newspaper
Netzeitung accusing Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung of
misleading the country about the mandate of the mission.


The group, who belong to an army association called the
"Darmstaedter Signal", dispute Jung's repeated assurances that it
is not a combat mission.


"The results of the reconnaissance flights will be used directly
to support the combat led by ground troops and fighter aircraft,"
they said.


Defence ministry spokesman Thomas Raabe on Friday rejected their
argument as "false."


The same claim was made by political opponents of the Tornado
mission, which was approved by parliament last week with 405
votes to 157.


The German military has 2,750 soldiers in the relatively stable
north of Afghanistan, but has resisted pressure from NATO allies
to extend its mandate to the south where they would likely face
combat against the Taliban.


Raabe confirmed reports that an officer who organises logistical
support for German forces in Afghanistan has filed an application
asking to be relieved of these duties because he had misgivings
about the Tornado deployment.


The soldier argues that the mission might contravene both the
German constitution and international law.


The mission has sparked considerable controversy in Germany.


The nation remains wary of sending troops into combat six decades
after the end of World War II and a recent poll showed that 77
percent of Germans did not want the Tornados sent to Afghanistan.


Two conservative MPs launched a court application to stop the
deployment but it was rejected.


A group linked to Al-Qaeda last Sunday warned Germany and Austria
that their presence in Afghanistan has made the countries targets
for militant attacks.


Another militant group said it would kill a German woman and her
son being held hostage in Iraq unless Berlin began withdrawing
its soldiers from Afghanistan within 10 days.

