

A French-piloted helicopter carrying three extreme skiers, among
them a Swiss pioneer of the sport, has gone missing in northern
Indian-administered Kashmir, officials said Friday.


"The airforce has not been able to trace the helicopter or the
missing skiers," army spokesman A.K. Mathur said.


"Our pilots have returned due to fading light and the aerial
search operation will be resumed tomorrow morning," he said.


The helicopter went missing in the Sonamarg area, about 100
kilometres (62 miles) northeast of the Indian Kashmir's summer
capital of Srinagar, the head of the Himalayan region's tourism
department, Farooq Shah, told AFP.


The heliski trip was being led by Sylvain Saudan, a 71-year-old
Swiss national who is recognised as a veteran pioneer of extreme
skiing in Europe and the Himalayas.


He has been organising paid heliski trips to the revolt-hit
Himalayan region for the past two decades, and has also survived
two helicopter crashes in the same Sonamarg area, most recently
in 2000.


The other two skiers were identified by officials as Diane
Schlegal, aged 49 and a Swiss national and Gerard Escoubas, a 38
-year-old Frenchman. The pilot of the missing Lama helicopter is
Lucien Brassier, also from France.


Saudan's trips involved departing from Srinagar in the morning,
returning by midday for refueling before making another return
trip to the mountains.


"He is in love with Kashmir," said Mohammed Ashraf, a former head
of Kashmir's tourism department and Saudan's close friend. "He
doesn't earn much by organising such trips, he just has a passion
about this place."


Heliskiing involves using a helicopter to reach isolated peaks
for challenging off-piste descents away from the crowds of
established, lift-served resorts.


"When it did not return today, we were worried and informed the
police," an official at Srinagar's Grand Palace hotel said.


Hundreds of Western skiers and snowboarders converge on Indian
Kashmir each year, even though the region has been wracked by an
insurgency against Indian rule since 1989.


The area is reputed as having some of the most challenging
extreme and off-piste skiing in the world, accessible either by
helicopter or at the resort of Gulmarg -- situated just a two-
hour drive from Srinagar.

