

Christian conservatives -- kingmakers in the last two US
presidential elections -- may have less success in getting their
pick elected in 2008, political observers say.


The backing of the religious right was critical in twice electing
President George W. Bush, in 2000 and 2004, and in handing
control of Congress to his Republican party.


The last presidential election, in November 2004, even is said to
have hinged on the "values voter," who gave particular weight to
religious and moral issues.


But the powerful Christian right bloc saw a reversal of fortune
in the November 2006 midterm balloting that handed control of
Congress to the rival Democrats.


Experts said conservative evangelicals, so effectively galvanized
in 2000 and 2004, were simply disaffected in 2006.


"George Bush would have lost both elections without the
evangelical vote,"  said Carson Mencken, a professor of sociology
at Baylor University, a leading Baptist institution in Houston,
Texas.


"In 2006, they didn't turn out, and it cost his party the Senate
and the House of Representatives."


Among the many reasons Christians failed to turn out in 2006 was
the growing rift with the president on policy priorities.


"It had to do with issues of immigration and ... feeling that he
was too compromising on some social issues," Mencken told AFP.


Whether the leading contenders for the Republican presidential
nomination can reinvigorate evangelicals' enthusiasm is an open
question.


None of the top contenders -- including former New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, US Senator John McCain, former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney -- has generated much excitement among
evangelical Christians so far. That augurs a possible repeat in
2008 of the conservative Christians' lackluster 2006 turnout.


"If the Republicans don't nominate a candidate who is at least
acceptable to Christian conservatives, it will be very hard to
maximize the number of votes," John Green, a senior fellow in
religion and American politics at the Pew Forum on Religion and
Public Life in Washington, told AFP.


Said Mencken: "They take a look at George Bush and they see a guy
that talks about faith, and talks about his walk with Jesus."


But in sizing up the 2008 Republican president field so far, he
said, "they see a guy like McCain, who really can't speak that
same language. He just doesn't carry the argot of the evangelical
very well."


Christian conservatives, he said, ultimately will throw their
support behind the whoever the Republican nominee turns out to
be, but "not with the same intensity with which they supported
George Bush."


That tepid support could suppress turnout at a time when rallying
voters to the polls is key for either party, given the narrowly-
divided electorate.


Pundits said some central concerns to evangelicals -- abortion,
gay marriage -- have taken a backseat to Iraq, which is likely to
remain the top issue during the upcoming primaries and general
election.


In 2004, the presence of gay marriage initiatives on ballots in
several key states drew conservative Christians to the polls. But
experts said it seems unlikely that a similar issue will emerge
in 2008.


Meanwhile, some Christian conservatives, while still outspoken in
their opposition to abortion and gay marriage, increasingly are
motivated by environmental concerns and other issues, making them
less likely to vote as a bloc.


"The evangelical voter is not as easily defined as he or she was
20 years ago," Mencken said.


Roberta Combs, president of the Christian Coalition, said it is
far too soon to write the epitaph of the evangelical political
movement, despite its failure to fully marshal its resources in
the last election.


"2006 was an off-year," she told AFP. "I think not only
evangelicals, but Republicans across the board were fed up with
Washington, they were fed up with scandals," she said predicting
that Christian conservatives would reassert themselves in 2008.


"A candidate cannot win in the primaries without the evangelical
vote," Combs said.


"This rhetoric people are putting out there about the 'values
voter' not being important any more -- I think that's just
rhetoric."

