

North Korea handed over the last remains of six US troops killed
in the Korean War to a US delegation Wednesday, more than half a
century after they died.


New Mexico state Governor Bill Richardson and his entourage
crossed the heavily fortified border into South Korea with the
remains, said a spokesman for the US- led United Nations Command
that patrols the frontier.


It was the first time in two years that the communist nation has
returned the remains of American soldiers it battled from
1950-53.


US ambassador Alexander Vershbow and Major General Stephen T.
Sargeant, the UNC's deputy chief of staff, oversaw the transfer
at the truce village of Panmunjom, in the middle of the
Demilitarised Zone that bisects the peninsula.


"Hopefully, we've done our bit to relieve the tension between our
two countries," Richardson was quoted as saying by Yonhap news
agency.


Richardson, a US presidential hopeful, said earlier that the
transfer was a positive gesture amid improving bilateral ties.


Efforts to implement a February 13 agreement on shutting down
North Korea's nuclear programme resumed in earnest after the
North was assured it would soon receive funds frozen in a Macau
bank.


On his arrival here, Richardson met senior South Korean officials
handling the North Korean nuclear issue to brief them on his
visit. He was accompanied by the White House's national security
adviser on Korea, Victor Cha.


The UN Command is to hold a ceremony at the Yongsan US military
base in Seoul for the repatriation of the bodies.


Among those present will be Richardson, Anthony Principi, a
former secretary of veterans' affairs, and Gen. B.B. Bell,
commander of US Forces Korea and the UN Command.


More than 33,000 US troops were killed during the Korean War and
some 8,100 are still listed as missing in action.


Between 1996 and 2005, North Korean and US authorities jointly
recovered 229 sets of US remains after Pyongyang accepted former
US President Jimmy Carter's proposal to retrieve the bodies.


The project was suspended when Washington withdrew its recovery
teams from the North amid growing tension over the nuclear issue.

