

Abbott Laboratories has agreed to radically cut the price of a
key AIDS treatment in more than 40 poor countries amid a rising
controversy over the cost of its drugs, the Chicago-based
pharmaceutical giant said Tuesday.


Abbott came under fire after it decided last month not to market
its new medicines in Thailand following a dispute over drug
pricing.


The decision to cut the cost of Kaletra by more than 55 percent
in countries defined as low and low-middle income by the World
Bank was welcomed by activists.


"This is really a huge victory for AIDS activists worldwide over
one of the most formidable opponents in the drug industry," said
Michael Weinstein, president of the AIDS Healthcare Foundation in
Los Angeles.


Abbott agreed to cut the cost of Kaletra treatment to 1,000
dollars a year from the current rate of 2,200 dollars a year
after it was approached by the World Health Organization.


That price is below the cost of available generic versions of the
drug, Abbott said.


Kaletra is a vital component treatment for the growing number of
people who no longer respond to their first set of AIDS/HIV
medications.


The decision was welcomed by the WHO, which said in a statement
that it would continue to work to "address the immediate need to
rapidly increase access and affordability of life saving drugs,
while maintaining the long term need to foster research and
development in innovative medicines."


Abbott said in a statement that it will "immediately begin
discussions with individual countries where Abbott's patents are
respected to maximize the number of patients that can be provided
Kaletra/Aluvia capsules and tablets at this new price."


The dispute with Thailand remains unresolved, but Abbott said the
price cut would also apply to an older version of the AIDS drug
that it currently sells in Thailand.


That version, which requires refrigeration, is impractical in a
hot climate such as Thailand, said Doctors Without Borders, which
has criticized Abbott for refusing to sell its new, heat-stable
version of Kaletra in Thailand.

