

Sir Alex Ferguson believes Manchester United's 7-1 Champions
League demolition of Roma proves they have the strength to win
the treble.


Ferguson's side produced what he claimed was the greatest
European performance he had ever seen at Old Trafford as they
advanced to the semi-finals with a stunning display on Tuesday.


United trailed 2-1 from the quarter-final first leg, but they
blew Roma away with three goals in seven minutes early in the
first half and went on to record their biggest win of the season.


The Premiership leaders' breath-taking display clinched an 8-3
aggregate victory and set up a semi-final meeting with either AC
Milan or Bayern Munich - their first appearance in the last four
since 2002.


After successive defeats to Roma and Portsmouth last week, United
looked as though they were crumbling under the weight of injuries
to Gary Neville, Nemanja Vidic and Louis Saha, but they produced
the perfect response against the Italians.


Now they will go into the decisive final weeks of the season with
renewed belief and Ferguson is adamant he has a squad with enough
strength in depth to emulate his 1999 team's treble-winning
achievement.


"In a European sense it is my greatest night here. You never
expect a scoreline like 7-1. But saying that the quality of our
game was so high that once we scored two or three you felt we
were going to do something big here.


"I think it was a special night. Hopefully it's not a one-off,
but certainly the number of goals and the quality of them, it's
difficult to think you are going to get that again.


"I said some months ago that the key to success at our club are
the ones sitting on the bench.


"The players that have come in have responded to the challenge
and I don't think they have looked out of place. We looked like
men tonight.


"That is the kind of quality we have. It is difficult to lose two
games at a club like this but we are able to respond to that
pressure.


"I think they have to win something and hopefully they can do
that. The way they are playing and enjoying their football they
deserve it. But we have come to the part of the season where
every match is a test. There are big games all the time and
hopefully they can get through all that."


United were in the kind of mood that can make them one of the
most exciting teams in Europe. Their slick passing and finely-
honed movement destroyed Roma during an amazing opening period.


Michael Carrick opened the scoring in the 12th minute with a
superb long range effort and Alan Smith got the second five
minutes later with a perfectly-placed strike.


Wayne Rooney turned in Ryan Giggs's 19th minute cross to send Old
Trafford wild and put United firmly in control of the tie.


United were determined to savour their dominance and Ronaldo
fired in their fourth just before half time. The Portuguese
winger was in typically brilliant form and added his second when
he turned in Giggs's cross after 49 minutes.


But the hosts weren't finished there. Carrick made it six with
another superb 25-yard strike and, after Daniele De Rossi pulled
one back for Roma, Patrice Evra completed the humiliation with an
81st minute drive to seal United's biggest ever Champions League
victory.


Ferguson was delighted to see Smith get his first goal since
November 2005 after his long battle with leg and ankle injuries
and he said: "I think everyone is pleased for Alan. His
enthusiasm spreads through the team. The great quality he has had
in the last year is patience. He has kept going and going and has
got his reward tonight.


"I just think the early goal was difficult for Roma because it
gave us the advantage and put them on the back foot. It gave us
the confidence to get at them and the speed of our play caused
them a lot of problems after that."


Roma's defeat was the heaviest suffered by an Italian side since
Juventus lost 7-0 against Vienna in 1958 and coach Luciano
Spalletti admitted he was shell- shocked by the result.


"No-one imagined this performance," Spalletti said. "We suffered
from a lack of experience.


"The first goal changed the face of the game. We lost our shape
and played into their hands. We have played many good matches
this season but we got it badly wrong tonight.


"We made a lot of mistakes and got punished heavily for them. We
ended up chasing the game."

