

Premier Wen Jiabao was due here Wednesday in the first visit by a
Chinese leader to Japan in seven years as Asia's two largest
economies work to improve ties tattered by history disputes.


The trip comes as the two countries' leaders look to defuse
tensions that had been building for much of the past decade as
their economies become increasingly dependent on each other.


"I hope that Prime Minister Wen will have good memories from this
trip," Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Tuesday.


"I hope the talks will be meaningful so we can build a mutually
beneficial strategic relationship," Abe said, in a phrase
frequently used by Japan to describe the thaw in ties.


China refused any summits with Abe's predecessor Junichiro
Koizumi due to the former premier's repeated visits during his
five-year tenure to a war shrine which Beijing and Seoul see as a
symbol of Japanese imperialism.


Abe, despite a reputation as a hardliner on emotive history
issues, went to Beijing in October just days after taking over.
Wen has described his visit to Tokyo as "ice-melting" after Abe's
"ice-thawing" trip.


Much of Wen's three-day visit will be about symbolism including a
speech at parliament, an audience at the imperial palace and a
game of baseball with Japanese students.


In a first agreement hours before Wen's arrival, the two
countries signed a deal to resume Japanese rice exports to China
after a four-year gap.


China is the world's largest rice consumer, although it is self-
sufficient. Japan, which heavily protects its rice farmers, is
looking to tap a market among wealthy Chinese consumers for high-
end rice.


Wen and Abe will meet late Wednesday and are expected to agree
for Japan to offer China help to curb greenhouse gases, a
Japanese official said.


China is not part of the Kyoto Protocol, leading the United
States to shun the landmark environmental pact, but Japan expects
Beijing to make a commitment to fighting global warming in a
post-Kyoto framework, the official said.


The two leaders are also certain to discuss the North Korean
nuclear problem amid a race to meet Saturday's deadline in a
breakthrough deal for Pyongyang to start shutting down a key
nuclear facility.


Abe has built his career as a hardliner on North Korea, which
relies on China for diplomatic support.


But China and Japan appear to have failed to reach a breakthrough
in time for Wen's visit on one of their most protracted disputes
-- contested gas fields in the East China Sea -- despite
extensive talks in recent weeks.


Along with the premier, executives of major Chinese oil companies
will visit Japan to attend an energy forum aimed at joint
development of environment- friendly technologies, officials
said.


China in 2004 surpassed the United States as Japan's top trading
partner, as Japanese firms turn to the country for its ample pool
both of cheap labour and middle-class consumers.


The trade has kept growing despite tensions, including unusual
street protests in Chinese cities in 2005 to denounce Japan's
alleged failure to atone for its past aggression.


But Akihiko Tanaka, a professor of international politics at the
University of Tokyo, said China did not want relations to
deteriorate to the point they hit the economy.


"The Chinese leadership knows that Japan would play a key role if
China wants to further expand its economic development," Tanaka
said. "A good international environment is a prerequisite for
China's development."

