

A Chinese court began hearing on Wednesday a piracy lawsuit that
alleges 20th Century Fox Film Corp violated a Chinese writer's
copyright, state press reported Wednesday.


The Hollywood movie studio was accused of stealing the plot and
creative ideas in two plays written by Li Jianmin for use in its
blockbuster film "The Day After Tomorrow", the official Xinhua
news agency said.


Li, who lodged the lawsuit at the the Intermediate court in
Dongying in east China's Shandong Province in March last year,
claimed that the 2004 film about lethal natural disasters caused
by global warming has 308 scenes that he wrote.


The case was one of several that came to light in state press
this week only days after the United States formally lodged a
complaint against copyright piracy in China with the World Trade
Organisation (WTO).


Washington announced on Monday it would file with the Geneva
trade group the piracy case, which American companies say costs
them billions of dollars a year in earnings.


A trade official in Geneva confirmed to AFP Tuesday that
Washington's case had been filed, officially marking the latest
in a series of trade spats between the two nations.


China's commerce ministry hit back Tuesday and Wednesday at the
US decision warning the move was ill-informed and would damage
trade relations between the two countries.


Meanwhile, 11 recording companies under the control of the
world's top four record firms -- EMI, Sony, Warner and Universal
-- will sue Yahoo China for music copyright infringement, the
Beijing Daily Messenger said Wednesday.


The companies have accused Yahoo China of offering downloads of
223 Chinese and English language songs that would have been worth
5.5 million yuan (710 million dollars) the newspaper said.


In a separate case involving Sohu.com and Internet search engine
Google, the same paper said that the Chinese portal had refused
to accept the American group's apology for unauthorised use of
its language database.


Zhang Chaoyang, chief executive officer of Sohu.com, was quoted
as saying that Google should withdraw the Chinese character input
product, or it would take formal action.


Google apologised to Sohu.com for using its technology in the
product it released last week, but said it had corrected the
problem and would not withdraw the software.

