

Desalination and recycled water are the keys to quenching the
world's growing thirst for the precious resource, officials said
Wednesday.


The two solutions will take on increasing importance as water
scarcity is exacerbated because of global climate changes, they
said.


"The concern has recently taken a greater importance with the
increased frequency and prolonged periods of droughts being
experienced worldwide," said Muhammad Saeed Al-Kindi, United Arab
Emirates' Minister of Environment and Water.


In a report this month, the world's top climate scientists
predicted that billions of people would face water scarcity and
hundreds of millions would likely go hungry as damage to Earth's
weather systems from greenhouse gases changed rainfall patterns,
punched up the power of storms and boosted the risk of drought,
flooding and water stress.


"Consequently, this century will see a greater emphasis being
placed on the desalinated water and the re-use of treated water,
and the extent to which these important resources will contribute
to the overall supply of water globally," Al-Kindi said at a
global summit of public and private sector leaders discussing the
issue.


Parts of the Middle East, which are among the most arid regions
in the world, and some Asia-Pacific countries, have already
turned to desalination and treated water to augment current
supplies, officials said.


Singapore, which lacks natural resources including water, has
invested billions of dollars in water-related projects including
desalination and recycling plants to reduce its reliance on
imported water.


The wealthy Southeast Asian state in March opened its largest
water recycling plant as part of a blueprint to reduce its
dependence on imported water from neighbouring Malaysia.


The plant, the fourth such facility in Singapore, has the
capacity to produce 32 million gallons of NEWater, a term coined
by the government to describe the treated water.


NEWater is one of Singapore's four so-called national taps which
also include local catchments, imported water from Malaysia and
desalinated water, said Yaacob Ibrahim, Minister for the
Environment and Water Resources.


"Within our own context and circumstances, we in Singapore have
over the last 40 years carefully planned and put in place a
robust system that has ensured a sustainable supply of clean
water for our needs, both for drinking and industry," he said.


With water scarcity likely to worsen, countries must join forces
to address the problem, said Sayyid Badr Al-Busaidi, Oman's
undersecretary with the ministry of foreign affairs.


"International cooperation, therefore, in the areas of
desalination and water re-use is essential because as each year
passes, it becomes ever clearer that we collectively face an
environmental challenge of global proportions," he said.


Singapore's Yaacob echoed such thoughts. "Water is crucial to
sustain life. Having a sustainable supply of clean water is a
priority for all of us," he said.


The UN estimates that by 2025 two-thirds of the planet's
population will be living with water stress, particularly in
North Africa, the Middle East and West Asia.

