

Extreme drought, ferocious bushfires and urban development are
killing Australia's koalas and could push the species towards
extinction within a decade, environmentalists are warning.


Alarms about the demise of the iconic and peculiar animal, which
sleeps about 20 hours per day and eats only the leaves of the
eucalyptus tree, have been raised before.


But Deborah Tabart, chief executive officer of the Australia
Koala Foundation, believes the animal's plight is as bad as she
has seen it in her 20 years as a koala advocate.


"In southeast Queensland we had them listed as a vulnerable
species which could go to extinction within 10 years. That could
now be seven years," she said. "The koala's future is obviously
bleak."


Southeastern Queensland has the strongest koala populations in
the vast country, meaning extinction in this area spells disaster
for the future of the species, said Tabart.


The biggest threat is the loss of habitat due to road building
and development on Australia's eastern coast -- traditional koala
country. The joke, said Tabart, is that koalas enjoy good real
estate and are often pushed out of their habitat by farming or
development.


"I've driven pretty much the whole country and I just see
environmental vandalism and destruction everywhere I go," she
said. "It's a very sorry tale. There are (koala) management
problems all over the country."


Massive bushfires which raged in the country's south for weeks
during the Australian summer, burning a million hectares of land,
would also have killed thousands of koalas.


Meanwhile there is the worst drought in a century, genetic
mutations from decades of inbreeding in some populations, and the
widespread incidence of chlamydia, a type of venereal disease
which affects fertility, to further cut koala numbers.


Moreover, the animals are often fatally attacked by pet dogs. "In
southeast Queensland the koalas are just in people's backyards
and the dogs just munch on them," Tabart said.


Confusing the issue is the lack of data on the number of koalas
in the wild. Figures range from 100,000 animals to several
million. What is known is that there were once millions of them
ranged along eastern Australia.


The hunting and slaughter for their furs in the 1920s eradicated
the species in the state of South Australia and pushed Victorian
populations close to extinction.


Public outrage over the killing of the big-eyed "bears" put an
end to the practice but Victorian stocks were unfortunately later
replenished with in-bred animals, leading to a lack of genetic
diversity in that state.


As a result, genetic problems such as missing testicles and
deformed "pin" heads emerged in Victorian koalas, said University
of Queensland academic Frank Carrick.


Carrick, who leads a koala study project at the university,
estimates the national population of the marsupial at about one
million. And while he doesn't believe the animal will be extinct
within a decade, he acknowledges that numbers are contracting.


"Though we don't really have an accurate figure on how many
koalas there are in Australia right now, we do know one thing --
that it's going down. Because we keep chopping down trees and
their food source," he said.


Carrick said it will take 40 to 50 years for the koala to
sufficiently recover from the impact of the latest Victorian
bushfires, drought and development.


"Exactly how small do we want the population to be before we push
the panic button?" he said.


Dan Lunney, a senior research scientist with the New South Wales
state Department of Environment and Conservation, said koalas
cover roughly the same territory as they did 20 years ago.


In some areas -- Victoria state and Kangaroo Island in South
Australia -- koala numbers are growing. But in New South Wales
(NSW), which tracks the east coast of Australia, the koala is a
recognised threatened species.


"That means if nothing is done about it the population will
continue to decline," he said. "The issue is not how many there
are; but it's whether they are declining or not."


Lunney said while the Victorian bushfires would have killed large
numbers of animals, as long as some koalas survived and as long
as sufficient bush regrowth is maintained, the population will
recover overall.


"Koalas can take a fair bit. That's why we've still got them," he
said.


"But they do have a threshold at which they can't continue."


Lunney said populations were at most risk of dying out in areas
where new houses were being built, putting them at risk of death
by cars and dogs.


"Koalas in the NSW coastal areas are the most vulnerable because
that's where the human population is increasing," he said. "As
the human population increases on the North Coast, the cost is
coming out in the survival of koalas.


"Road kill -- it's a common way to see wildlife," he said.


Drought, fire and flood have always been part of the Australian
environment "but when your habitat is fragmented, all these
things are exacerbated," said Erna Walraven, senior curator at
Sydney's Taronga Zoo.


Walraven sees the koala as a flagship species, with the health of
their populations serving as an indicator of the wider health of
the wlidlife of the bush, including bandicoots and wallabies.


"My view is that there are a range of animals under that five,
six, seven kilogram range that really (are) quite vulnerable to
increased development and land clearing on the coast," she said.


"I think that the koala is in there with a big suite of other
species, native Australian icons, that are under threat."

