

Thailand, which is at loggerheads with Western pharmaceutical
giants over generic drugs, on Wednesday welcomed US drug maker
Abbott's offer to sharply cut the price of a key AIDS medicine.


But it stopped short of saying whether the proposal would change
its earlier plan to import copycat versions of pricey medicines,
including Abbott's anti- AIDS drug Kaletra.


"I feel very happy about the proposal. It shows that the company
understands our position," said Suchart Chongtrasert, a senior
official at the health ministry's Food and Drug Administration
(FDA).


Thailand's army-backed government has jolted the powerful
pharmaceutical industry by allowing generic versions of Kaletra,
another AIDS drug Efavirenz, and popular heart disease medicine
Plavix.


Even after announcing the generic drug scheme, the Thai
government has continued talks with Abbott and foreign drug firms
in a bid to secure cheaper prices for all three medicines.


On Tuesday, the FDA held separate meetings with Abbott and
Efavirenz's maker, the US-based drug giant Merck, which is known
outside the United States as MSD.


During the meeting, Abbott offered to reduce the price of 30
Kaletra tablets per person to 3,488.20 baht (100 dollars) per
month, down 40 percent from its earlier proposal, said Suchart,
who was among the FDA price negotiators.


The new price could be cheaper than the generic version of
Kaletra, Suchart said, but added the government must further
examine Abbott's offer until making its final decision.


But activists gave a cautious welcome to Abbott's offer, saying
that the new price would only apply to an older version of
Kaletra that it currently sells in Thailand.


In March, Abbott said it would stop selling new drugs to the
kingdom -- including an improved version of Kaletra in a protest
against the ministry's generic drug program.


Brigitte Tenni, an activist from Thai Network of People Living
with HIV/AIDS said Abbott should offer the latest version of
Kaletra to Thai patients at affordable prices.


"This is a positive step, but the company should do more. Thai
patients should have access to the new version of Kaletra," Tenni
said.


FDA's Suchart said Abbott did not discuss its ban on new drugs in
Thailand.


An official from Abbott could not be reached for comment. An MSD
official declined to give details, adding no agreement was made
during Tuesday's talks.


AIDS is Thailand's top cause of death, followed by heart disease,
the health ministry says, adding that some 500,000 Thais are
infected with HIV, but fewer than 10 percent of them can afford
to buy Kaletra.

