

China and South Korea should push to increase annual two-way
trade to 200 billion dollars soon, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said
Wednesday before wrapping up a two-day visit.


Wen called for the two nations to pursue studies into a free
trade agreement, saying trade "has an inordinate amount of
potential for growth."


Their two economies are complementary, he told Chinese and South
Korean business leaders at a lunch. "Korea leads in technology
and management while China has plenty of labour resources and a
large market."


China is already South Korea's largest commercial partner. Trade
between Asia's second and third largest economies reached 134
billion dollars last year.


"A China-Korea FTA would be significant in the long-term
development of bilateral economic trade," said Wen, who was to go
on to Japan later Wednesday.


South Korea has been reluctant to rush into an FTA with China
amid fears that cheap food could flood the domestic market.


But South Korean officials said they would consider starting free
trade talks with China, after Seoul and Washington sealed a trade
agreement last week.


The trade ministry said Wednesday that the two countries would
begin their second feasibility study in June.


Wen urged Seoul to ease import barriers to Chinese products and
said Beijing is also ready to open its market wider to South
Korean products.


"The Chinese government highly recognises South Korea's efforts
to decrease the trade deficit with China. We are willing to open
our market to Korea, and increase imports from Korea," he said.


"We must jointly try to erase barriers that affect bilateral
investment and speed up efforts to facilitate more investment."


The Chinese premier called for cooperation in science and
technology, saying China wants to learn from South Korea's
advanced technology.


Wen's visit here has focused on strengthening economic and
security ties.


On Tuesday he and President Roh Moo-Hyun agreed to set up
military hotlines to prevent clashes in the Yellow Sea. They also
agreed to cooperate in helping persuade North Korea to scrap its
nuclear programme.


Chinese troops fought for North Korea during the 1950-53 war. But
Seoul and Beijing have greatly stepped up economic and diplomatic
cooperation since they normalised ties in 1992, when trade was
worth just five billion dollars.

