

Bangladesh's military-backed government has severely restricted
the freedom of former prime minister Khaleda Zia hours after she
warned the country was at a "crossroads," media reports said
Wednesday.


With the country under emergency rule since January, law-
enforcing agencies had imposed the ban on Zia meeting anyone
except "four designated persons," the private UNB news agency
said.


"Those who can meet with Khaleda (Zia) are her younger brother
Sayeed Iskander and his wife, Khaleda's personal physician and
former MP Mushfiqur Rahman," UNB said.


The ban was reported just hours after the head of the previous
government warned Bangladesh was at a "crossroads" and called for
"unity."


Zia, who lives inside Dhaka's military cantonment, issued a
statement late Tuesday saying: "As a nation, each decision at
this moment is very important, because I firmly believe our
present decisions will determine whether we will open a new
chapter in our immense potential or plunge into darkness.


"I urge all who are running the government to take every decision
with wisdom and vision," she said calling on the government not
to be "biased" and "vindictive".


"Our beloved motherland has come to a crossroads," she said.


"National security and sovereignty has become a more significant
issue surpassing individual, family, party, corruption and good
governance matters."


Zia also urged the government to include politicians in the
ongoing reform programmes and not to consider them "opponents".


Hours after carrying Zia's statement, UNB withdrew it on the
advice of the official Press Information Department which along
with the armed forces also told newspapers not to carry the
report.


Bangladesh has been under a military-backed government since the
start of the year, when polls scheduled for January 22 were
cancelled and a state of emergency enforced.


The government has curbed freedom of speech and banned politics.
It has also launched a nationwide crackdown to clean up politics.
At least 50 top politicians have been arrested including Zia's
once influential Tareque Rahman.


On Monday the Bangladeshi chief executive officer of a Malaysian-
owned company filed an extortion case against the leader of the
opposition Sheikh Hasina Wajed.


Hasina will return home home on April 14 to face the charges, her
press secretary Abul Kalam Azad told AFP Wednesday.


However several newspapers reported that she would not come back
to avoid arrest.


Zia could also be sent into exile as part of the government's
move to clean up politics, several dailies said Tuesday.

