

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming believes his side can win the
World Cup: their Super Eights match against fellow contenders Sri
Lanka here Thursday will go a long way to seeing if he is right.


The Black Caps - like defending champions Australia unbeaten at
the tournament so far - top the Super Eights table on run-rate.


But unlike Australia, who've beaten South Africa, and are chasing
an unprecedented third straight title, they've yet to come up
against a leading one-day international side at this event
although they did defeat England by six wickets in their opening
group match.


One more victory will see New Zealand, yet to win the World Cup,
into the last four.


Thursday's match marks the start of a run of games that sees them
up against 1996 champions Sri Lanka, South Africa and Australia
in the space of 10 days in Grenada.


"We know we are capable of winning it," said Fleming.


But all-rounder Jacob Oram added: "These three games will either
build on our confidence or chip away at it."


New Zealand are now just one short of equalling their 10-match
winning run of 2004, having already beaten Australia three times
at home before coming to the Caribbean.


However, Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene for one believes
New Zealand have yet to be tested at this tournament.


"They are playing some really good cricket but they haven't
played one of the top teams yet," he told AFP.


Hosts New Zealand, third in the International Cricket Council
(ICC) one-day ratings, and fourth-placed Sri Lanka squared a
five-match series 2-2 in January after the final game was washed
out.


But the balance of Thursday's match could swing New Zealand's way
before a ball is bowled if Lasith Malinga is ruled out.


Sri Lanka's fast bowling ace missed practice Tuesday after
sustaining ligament damage in his left ankle during an earlier
training session.


Malinga, whose round-arm action makes him difficult to face - New
Zealand asked umpires to put sweaters round their waists to act
as an additional sightscreen last time they played against him -
tops the tournament bowling averages with 15 wickets at an
average of under 15.


And against South Africa his record-breaking four wickets in four
balls so nearly saw Sri Lanka to a stunning win.


"Lasith has an ankle problem and we'll assess it over the next
couple of days. We're not sure he's 100 percent," Jayawardene
explained.


Farveez Maharoof and Nuwan Kulasekara, the most likely
replacements, don't spook opponents as much as Malinga.


But last time out unheralded quick Dilhara Fernando saw Sri Lanka
to a two-run win over England by clean bowling Ravi Bopara last
ball.


And their attack will still include left-arm quick Chaminda Vaas
and incomparable off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan, both World Cup
winners.


Sri Lanka's two most recent one-day wins against New Zealand
featured major contributions from opener Sanath Jayasuriya - 111
in Napier and 70 in Auckland.


One criticism of Sri Lanka is that they are too often dependent
on the veteran left-hander for big scores.


But Jayawardene said generally slow West Indian surfaces meant
ideas of good totals had to be revised.


"On these pitches 230, 250 is a very acceptable score. Sanath
didn't get many against England (25) but the middle-order did
well."


New Zealand bat a long way down, Oram and fellow all-rounder
Scott Styris pivotal figures, while a well-balanced attack
features fast bowler Shane Bond and left-arm spinner Daniel
Vettori.


"They've got guys who can bail them out if they struggle at the
top. But we've played them a lot in the last 12 months and we
know their strengths and weaknesses," said Jayawardene.


New Zealand must decide whether to recall batsman Ross Taylor,
whose 128 in Napier, was his maiden one-day international
hundred.


Taylor has missed the last four games due a hamstring injury,
sustained during his half-century against Kenya in a group match.

