

France's right-wing presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy
agreed to protect President Jacques Chirac from investigation on
corruption charges in exchange for his endorsement, a French
weekly reported Wednesday.


Chirac's office dismissed the report, published in the Canard
Enchaine, a satirical investigative weekly, as "absolutely
baseless". No comment was available from Sarkozy's camp.


Quoting a "Chirac loyalist" from Sarkozy's governing UMP party,
the weekly reported that "in exchange for Chirac's support for
his candidacy, Sarkozy made a commitment, if he wins, to avoid
any judicial backlash for Chirac."


Rather than a specific amnesty for corruption affairs, the weekly
said Sarkozy would introduce an article, part of a new anti-crime
bill, that would set a 10-year limit on the time a judge has to
close a case.


"These allegations, which are absolutely baseless, do not warrant
a response," an official at the French presidency told AFP.


Chirac's name has been linked to several illegal party-funding
scandals during his tenure as mayor of Paris from 1977 to 1995,
but as president he was immune from questioning by magistrates.
The immunity ends a month after he steps down on May 16.


Three cases, all dating back more than 10 years, could
potentially come back to haunt him, including a kickback scheme
in which workers for Chirac's Rally for the Republic (RPR) party
had salaries paid for by Paris city hall.


The so-called "fake jobs" scandal led in 2003 to a series of
prosecutions of senior RPR figures, including Chirac's close ally
Alain Juppe who received a suspended jail term and a year-long
ban on public office.


Last month justice officials said Chirac, 74, would be questioned
after he leaves office in May by a judge looking into the case,
although no date had been set.


Chirac gave his official endorsement to Sarkozy's bid for the
presidency on March 21, after leaving it until the last moment to
rule out running for a third term.


Once close allies, the two men's relationship have soured since
Sarkozy backed a rival candidate in the 1995 presidential
election. Sarkozy went on to wrest control the UMP away from
Chirac, becoming its president in 2004.


Sarkozy is currently the favourite to win the presidential
election, taking place in two rounds on April 22 and May 6.

