

American plans to build a missile defence system in Europe would
"fundamentally alter the continent's geo-strategic landscape,"
Russia's foreign minister said in an article published on
Wednesday.


Meanwhile, the Kremlin's chief spokesman told a British newspaper
that Russia felt "deceived" by the American plans, and would
potentially have to "create alternatives."


Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, writing in the Financial Times,
declared that it was "unacceptable for anyone to use the
continent as their own strategic territory."


"Any unilateral anti-missile projects would fundamentally alter
the continent's geo-strategic landscape. It would also be an
affront to all Europeans," he wrote.


Russia has repeatedly criticised the United States' plans to
place missile defence equipment in countries that were once part
of Moscow's orbit.


The United States has asked the Czech Republic to host a radar
system and Poland to host interceptor rockets as part of its
missile defence plans.


Washington insists the anti-missile shield is intended as
protection against attacks from "rogue states" such as Iran and
claims that the proposed system would be useless against Russia's
vast weapons arsenal.


That claim was contested by Russian General Vladimir Belous who
told The Guardian daily on Wednesday that the "geography of the
deployment doesn't give any doubt the main targets are Russian
and Chinese nuclear forces."


"The US bases represent a real threat to our strategic nuclear
forces," the general, described by the paper as Russia's leading
expert on anti-ballistic weaponry, said.


Lavrov meanwhile argued in his comment piece that "no such
threats exist for Europe or the US today, or in the foreseeable
future."


"None of the so-called rogue states possesses missiles that pose
a real threat to Europe. The construction of missiles capable of
reaching the US is an even harder task, requiring different
technologies and production capabilities."


He added that while the threats do not currently exist, the
American plans "could become a self-fulfilling prophesy as a
consequence of ill-considered actions."


Lavrov called for "open discussions" between the United States,
Russia and the EU on the issue, and said that he hoped that the
next meeting of the NATO-Russia council in Oslo later this month
would include talks on the plans.


In an article also published on Wednesday, the Kremlin's chief
spokesman Dmitry Peskov told The Guardian that Russia was
"extremely concerned and disappointed" by the US's actions.


"We were never informed in advance about these plans. It brings
tremendous change to the strategic balance in Europe, and to the
world's strategic stability.


"We feel ourselves deceived. Potentially we will have to create
alternatives to this but with low cost and higher efficiency."


Peskov added that while Russia was considering military counter-
measures, President Vladimir Putin also wanted "dialogue" and
"negotiations."


On Friday, the lower house of the Russian parliament warned that
the antimissile shield risks triggering a new international arms
race.


"Such decisions, which are useless in terms of preventing
potential or imaginary threats from countries of the Middle and
Far East, are already bringing about a new split in Europe and
unleashing another arms race," read the declaration, which was
approved unanimously by deputies in the State Duma.


Parts of the US missile shield are already in place in the United
States, Britain and Greenland, and Pentagon officials say the
plan is to have the system operational by 2013.

