

Two Buddhists were killed in separate attacks Wednesday in
Thailand's restive Muslim-majority south, police said, as the
country's junta leader began a visit to the region.


A 26-year-old Buddhist woman was shot dead and her body set
ablaze by suspected Islamic militants in Yala, one of three
insurgency-torn southern provinces bordering Malaysia.


"It's the work of the same group of militants who are active in
this predominantly Muslim village," police said, adding her body
was burned beyond recognition.


She was riding a motorcycle on her way to work on the outskirts
of Yala town when rebels attacked her.


Also in Yala, a 19-year-old Buddhist man was killed in a drive-by
shooting that also left his 47-year-old mother seriously wounded.


The province of Yala has seen a surge in attacks this year, with
10 people killed on Monday alone. Four of them were shot dead
while returning from the burial of a bombing victim.


In nearby Pattani province, five officials from the Revenue
Department were wounded when a roadside bomb exploded near their
van, police said.


The blast came as junta leader General Sonthi Boonyaratglin
travelled to Pattani for a two-day visit to meet with Muslim
religious leaders as well as local government and military
chiefs.


Sonthi told reporters as he arrived in Pattani that the
insurgents' attacks had become more lethal, even as the number of
incidents had fallen.


"The attacks have decreased in number, but the militants have
adjusted their strategies to be more violent and brutal in order
to terrify people," he said.


Sonthi said he feared the Islamic separatists were trying to
spark a broader communal conflict, and urged both Buddhists and
Muslims to work to reduce tensions between the faiths.


"Don't fall into their trap. Villagers must be patient. The
militants want to create a sectarian war," he said.


Sonthi is the first Muslim to head the army in mainly Buddhist
Thailand. After he seized power in a coup in September, he
installed a government that promptly unveiled a raft of peace
measures for the region.


But the violence has escalated, and the government remains
uncertain who exactly is behind the attacks. No one has claimed
responsibility for any of the attacks or made any specific
demands of the government.


More than 2,000 people have been killed in three years of unrest
in the southern region.

