

The US medical community is pressing on with its plea to end
limits on government financing for embryonic stem cell research,
but President George W. Bush refuses to lift the restrictions.


As Bush prepares for another clash with the Democratic-led
Congress over federal funding for the research, scientists
continue to argue that stem cells may provide the key to treating
diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.


The Senate was expected to vote Wednesday on a bill lifting
restrictions on stem cell research on human embryos. The House of
Representatives approved similar legislation in January.


Bush, who believes life begins at conception, already used his
veto power for the first time last year to kill a bill that would
have lifted the restrictions and has vowed to strike down the new
legislation.


The president's restrictions, set in 2001, bar government-funded
researchers from producing new lines of stem cells from human
embryos, allowing them to use only the 21 lines that existed
prior to Bush's decision.


"Constraining federal research support to a selected area is not
a sensible research policy," Brock Reeve, executive director of
the Harvard Stem Cell Institute, recently wrote in The Washington
Post.


"These restrictions divert valuable time and effort in a way that
isn't occurring in Britain and Singapore," he wrote


"In short, the stem cell sector is at risk of experiencing a
failure to launch at the national level."


The use of human embryos has riled Christian conservatives,
Bush's key electoral base, who argue that researchers could
instead cultivate stem cells from placentas or adult stem cells.


But US medical authorities insist that human embryos provide a
unique potential for science.


"My point of view is that all angles in stem cell research should
be pursued," Elias Zerhouni, who heads the National Institutes of
Health, recently told a congressional panel.


However, he added, "The presentations about adult stem cells
having as much or more potential than embryonic stem cells, in my
view, do not hold scientific water, if you will."


Embryonic stem cells are needed for research on DNA that would
make the United States a world leader in the field, Zerhouni
said.


Stem cell research can help "really understand for the first time
in the history of mankind how DNA is programmed to reprogram," he
said.


"To do that, you need to have copies of cells that have been
programmed, adults stems cells, but also, copies of cells that
have never been programmed forward, embryonic stem cells,"
Zerhouni said.


"It's basically the software of life we're talking about."


A study published Sunday in the British journal Nature Medicine
shows the potential breakthroughs offered by embryonic stem
cells.


Researchers were able to cure mice suffering from an incurable
and deadly nerve disease by injecting them with human embryonic
stem cells.


Evan Snyder, of Burnham Institute for Medical Research in
California and the study's lead author, said his team wants to
use the method on children suffering from Sandhoff disease, a
rare genetic disorder that causes the progressive deterioration
of the central nervous system.

