

Ailing Cuban leader Fidel Castro, in his third article in less
than two weeks, on Tuesday decried the US release from jail of an
anti-Castro militant wanted by Cuba and Venezuela for the deadly
bombing of a Cuban jet.


An El Paso, Texas judge allowed Luis Posada Carriles to walk free
last Friday pending a hearing on US immigration fraud charges, a
decision that Castro charged was taken under President George W.
Bush's "instructions."


"It was President Bush himself who ignored at all times the
criminal and terrorist side of the accused," Castro wrote in an
article titled "Brutal Response."


"He was protected by simply being charged with an immigration
violation," he wrote. "The response is brutal. The US government
and its most representative institutions decided to release the
monster early."


In yet another sign that Castro is emerging from his lengthy
convalescence, he said the US move was "less humiliating" for
Cuba, noting that Posada Carilles had snuck from Central America
through Cancun and then into Miami in 2005.


"There is nothing said about his innumerable victims, his bombs
against tourist centers in recent years, of his dozens of plans
financed by the US government to physically eliminate me," Castro
wrote.


Posada Carriles, 79, was jailed in Venezuela for masterminding
the October 6, 1976 bombing of a Cubana Airlines flight between
Barbados and Cuba which killed all 73 on board. He later escaped
and became involved with US CIA operations in Central America.


Havana has accused him of involvement in a series of bombings
inside Cuba in 1997, and of plotting to assassinate Castro in
2000 when he was arrested with a large cache of explosives in
Panama.


In 2005 he entered the United States and requested political
asylum, and has been held since then on illegal immigration
charges, while Cuba and its ally Venezuela have called for his
extradition.


Castro's article assailing Bush and the United States is his
third in two weeks, and comes as many of his associates and
friends say the Cuban leader of 48 years is now recovering
steadily and could soon return to his job.


Following gastrointestinal surgery last July, Castro, 80, handed
over power temporarily to his brother Raul, and has since only
rarely been heard from or seen in photos or news video.


The previous two articles attacked Bush's plan to promote
throughout the region use of food crops to produce ethanol as a
fuel alternative to oil.


Castro said such a plan if implemented to the extent envisioned
by Washington would take food from the mouths of "billions" of
poor people, which he said would amount to genocide.

