

A spurt of US trade sanctions on China has raised the prospect of
an all-out trade war but experts believe cool heads will prevail
as the stakes are simply too high for the two powers.


Egged on by a Democratic-controlled legislature seeking strong
action against Beijing over America's burgeoning trade deficit,
President George W. Bush's administration has thrice in the last
three months dragged China to the World Trade Organization, the
global trade watchdog.


The last two high-profile actions by Washington over China's
copyright infringements and market access barriers announced on
Monday drew a stark warning from Beijing that they would damage
trade relations.


The actions came 10 days after the Bush administration made a
landmark ruling to impose penalty tariffs on Chinese products
that allegedly receive an unfair boost from government subsidies.


They could well be "first steps toward an all-out trade war with
China," the New York Times said in an editorial Tuesday, warning
that any escalation would do more harm to American business than
to China's subsidies.


"What would happen to Boeing if the steel used in its jets became
more expensive? The last thing a country with a record trade
deficit can afford is to hurt its exporters," the newspaper said.


"What must be avoided are the kinds of misunderstandings --
intensified by growing anti-China sentiment in this country --
that lead to tit-for-tat tariff reprisals until things spin out
of control," it said.


Over the next few weeks, Congress plans to consider a bipartisan
action against China for allegedly keeping its currency
artificially low.


Proponents of the legislation say it will be well-crafted, WTO-
compliant and difficult for Bush to veto.


A bill in the last Republican-dominated Congress aimed at
punishing China with a tariff if it did not revalue its currency
surprisingly won two-thirds support in the Senate in a mere
procedural vote. It was held back to give Beijing time to
undertake currency reforms.


"But now the possibility for legislation in the (new) Congress is
real, because the number of people who will vote for strong
legislation exceeds the number of people who would have voted for
a tariff," Democratic Senator Charles Schumer told a recent
Congressional hearing.


Some lawmakers believe that Beijing has undervalued its currency
by up to 40 percent in order to boost its exports, and that this
is a key reason for the  US trade deficit that hit 232 billion
dollars in 2006.


Despite ominous signs of an escalating trade row, experts are not
overly concerned.


Trade frictions between big powers are "part and parcel" of
bilateral relations and a full blown trade war between the United
States and China is unlikely, said Nicholas Lardy, an expert at
the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International
Economics.


There is also little room for China to retaliate as Washington's
actions are being undertaken through the proper channel -- the
WTO -- with no guarantees that all the legal suits will end in US
favour, Lardy said.


"Contrary to popular opinion, this is not the beginning of a
trade war," said Dan Ikenson of the Cato Institute, a libertarian
think tank in Washington.    He thinks some of the trade issues
will likely be resolved in bilateral consultations within the
next two months.


The two nations are scheduled to hold a high-level "strategic
economic dialogue" in May.


"The stakes are simply way too high for these disputes not to be
resolved amicably, and in a manner which puts the relationship on
even firmer footing," Ikenson said.


The United States is China's largest overseas market and second
largest source of foreign direct investment while China is the
fourth largest market for US goods and remains the fastest
growing major US export market.


While legislators charge that the Bush administration has ignored
China's trade violations over the past six years at the expense
of US businesses and workers, US officials point to the five-year
transition period China enjoyed before some of the WTO rules
could be fully applied against the Asian giant.


China joined the global body in December 2001.

