

Sevilla defender Julien Escude said the UEFA Cup holders would
have to get to grips with Tottenham strikers Robbie Keane and
Dimitar Berbatov on Thursday if they are to reach the semi-finals
this season.


Tottenham host the southern Spanish club with a 2-1 deficit from
the first leg a week ago, when Keane scored after just 65 seconds
before Sevilla bounced back with goals later in the first half
from Fredi Kanoute, the Spanish first division's top scorer, and
Alexandr Kerzhakov.


Escude told the UEFA website: "It's always great to win but it's
going to be very hard over there. We're in for a difficult 90
minutes. We know how good Tottenham are, especially at home with
their fans behind them."


And on Keane and Berbatov, Escude added: "It's tricky defending
against strikers of their calibre. We already knew about them,
but we learned a lot.


"We didn't really get to grips with them at the start and, with
players like Keane and Berbatov, that can be fatal."


The former Ajax centreback added Tottenham were also strong in
the middle of the park.


"They're very impressive in midfield, with a lot of strength and
pace. They get the ball forward quickly and keep creating chances
for the front two, who are very good technically and always seem
to make the right run."


With Sevilla remaining the only Spanish club left fighting on
three fronts - the league, Spanish Cup and Europe - some pundits
are wondering whether their recent lacklustre performances
suggest their players are running out of steam.


"I am not tired," said Sevilla's Brazilian international Daniel
Alves, who many rate as the best right back currently playing in
Europe.


"Some days are good, some days are not so good. However, all my
life I have dreamed about playing 100 games a year and so if I
play 50 or 60 that is also good, but I always want to play.


"I want to play, play and play and some days I will be less
effective than others but I will never lack fight.


"There is no time to breathe and we have to change this
situation. (The Spurs game) will be a difficult battle, but if we
want to get to the final we have to get past this difficulty."


The winner between arguably the two strongest clubs still in the
UEFA Cup faces an almost certain semi-final against another
Spanish side Osasuna.


Osasuna won 3-0 at Bayer Leverkusen to make them overwhelming
favourites to progress.


In the other half of the draw, Werder Bremen host Dutch club AZ
Alkmaar with the match goalless from the first leg and Benfica
entertain Espanyol hoping to overturn a 3-2 deficit.


Thursday


UEFA Cup quarter-final, 2nd leg              1st leg


Werder Bremen (GER) v AZ Alkmaar (NED)           0-0


Osasuna (ESP) v Leverkusen (GER)                 3-0


Tottenham (ENG) v Sevilla (ESP)                  1-2


Benfica (POR) v Espanyol (ESP)                   2-3

