

Thousands of rival demonstrators loyal to Ukraine's feuding
president and prime minister rallied in central Kiev on Wednesday
as the country's political paralysis entered a second week.


Some 3,000 supporters of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych gathered on Independence Square, many waving the blue-
and-white flags of his Regions Party.


President Viktor Yushchenko issued an order on April 2 to
dissolve parliament and hold early elections after accusing the
ruling majority led by Yanukovych of abusing the constitution.


Yanukovych has defied the order and hundreds of his supporters
have camped outside the parliament for more than a week, with
thousands more holding daily rallies in Kiev.


The two men have feuded since 2004, when the mass protests of the
Orange Revolution brought pro-Western Yushchenko to power after a
presidential election win initially handed to Yanukovych was
declared fraudulent.


"The presidential decree is unconstitutional. That's not my
president and his party is against the people," Georgy Yershov, a
70-year-old pensioner from Dnipropetrovsk in eastern Ukraine,
said at the protest.


More than 1,000 supporters of Yushchenko's Our Ukraine party also
turned out in central Kiev on Wednesday, marching from Europe
Square towards the country's constitutional court waving the
party's orange flags.


The constitutional court, which is made up of 18 judges, has been
asked by Yanukovych to rule on the legality of the presidential
decree and a decision is expected in weeks, experts said.


On Tuesday, the court announced that it would not start examining
the case until April 17 and five judges from the court, three of
them Yushchenko appointees, said they were being put under undue
political pressure.


Yushchenko has decreed early elections for May 27. The president
has said he will not go back on his order, though he has conceded
the date for the elections could change.


"Honest Court, Honest Elections," "East and West Together," "No
to the Criminals in Power!" read the placards held by the pro-
Yushchenko activists.


"We're here to support the president and his decision.... There
is a lot of pressure against the judges. We want to say: do not
be afraid, we are with you," said Nadya Kryvonos, a local deputy
from Kremenchug in central Ukraine.


Also Wednesday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk was
to travel to Strasbourg to address the Council of Europe on the
political crisis in Ukraine, Ukrainian officials said.


Yushchenko had been initially set to travel to Strasbourg for the
address.

