

India, the United States, the European Union and Brazil were to
open two-day talks on Wednesday in a bid to salvage global trade
talks, but hopes for a breakthrough were slim.


The New Delhi gathering marks the first time trade ministers of
the G-4 group of nations have met since the Doha Round of world
trade talks collapsed last July when Washington refused to yield
more ground in cutting farm subsidies.


The most that can be hoped "is for people to come on the same
page and agree there is a need to move forward," said T.S.
Vishwanath, head of international trade policy at the
Confederation of Indian Industry.


The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is seeking to conjure up
agreement in the Doha Round before the end of June when the fast
track trade negotiating powers of US President George Bush
expire.


An agreement between the world's two biggest trading powers, the
United States and EU, and the two leading developing nations
India and Brazil, is seen as vital to hopes of brokering a
compromise among the WTO's 150 members this year.


"We need to intensify and accelerate the process of negotiation,"
EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson said ahead of the latest
bid to find common ground.


"If we fail, Doha's prospects for this year will be lost," he
warned.


Developing nations are pushing the United States and other
wealthy nations to slash farm subsidies, while poorer countries
are being squeezed to allow more access to their markets.


The ministers will hold bilateral meetings Wednesday before
formal four-way talks on Thursday at which they will discuss
steps needed to "enable a successful conclusion of the Doha
Round," Indian Commerce ministry spokeswoman Shipra Biswas said.


The sessions will be attended by Indian Commerce Minister Kamal
Nath, US trade representative Susan Schwab and Brazilian Foreign
Minister Celso Amorim.


Japan and Australia will also join the negotiations later on
Thursday.


If a breakthrough can be achieved by June, a conclusion to the
Doha talks could be reached in about eight months, WTO officials
say. Otherwise the Doha round, launched in the Qatari capital in
2001 and billed as a once-in-a-generation chance to help bring
millions out of poverty, faces years of delay.


"There doesn't seem to be any willingness to compromise so in
that kind of situation, it's difficult to expect any favourable
outcome," said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG
Foundation, an Indian economic think-tank.


The deadlock over attempts to cut subsidies and import tariffs on
farm products is regarded as the key stumbling block to expanding
free and fair trade globally.


Nath has said there is "no commitment by India on the deadline"
and that he would prefer no deal to a "bad deal."


"We are hoping for movement but we need to see how much other
countries are willing to meet the needs of the developing
nations," an Indian government spokesman told AFP.


Developing nations are being pressed to open their markets wider
to industrial goods and services while developed countries are
supposed to slash farm support and allow in more agricultural
imports in return.


India and other developing nations fear their fledgling
industries will be overwhelmed if their markets are forced open
to much more advanced countries.


And they want to protect the livelihoods of farming populations
-- up to 80 percent of the workforces in developing nations
depend on agriculture.

