

US Democratic presidential candidates offered ways out of the
Iraq war Tuesday during a "virtual" town hall meeting, in another
sign of the Internet's growing role in the White House race.


The town hall meeting is a staple of US presidential politics in
which candidates interact with ordinary Americans, but the left-
leaning group Moveon.org took the tradition online in the first
of three virtual forums.


The top Democratic contenders, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton and 2004 vice presidential candidate John Edwards, were
among seven candidates who faced off, fielding questions from
Moveon members.


Obama used his time to take a thinly veiled swipe at one of the
top Republican candidates, Senator John McCain, over his
relatively rosy assessment of the security situation in Iraq
after a recent, heavily-guarded visit to a Baghdad market.


"The idea that the situation in Iraq is improving because it
takes a security detail of 100 soldiers, three Black Hawk
helicopters and a couple of Apache gunships to walk through a
market in the middle of Baghdad, is simply not credible and it's
not reflective of the facts on the ground," Obama said.


Clinton said the Democratic-led Congress should pressure Bush to
sign  pending legislation that ties Iraq war funding to a
timetable for withdrawing US troops.


"If the president won't end this war, when I'm president I will,"
she said.


Edwards, a former senator, opened the town meeting saying the
Democratic- controlled Congress should "stand firm" against Bush
and use its power of the purse to force the president to pull US
troops out of Iraq.


Senators Joe Biden and Chris Dodd, along with Representative
Dennis Kucinich and New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, also
took part in the town hall meeting, in which the candidates could
be heard but not seen.


Instead, web viewers saw a web page with a blue map of the United
States as background.


It was another sign of the crucial force the Internet is now
playing in US elections, with politicians like Clinton even first
announcing their presidential candidacies online.


But the effect is not all positive. Some candidates' faux pas and
objectionable statements can be constantly repeated and magnified
when they show up posted on popular video websites such as
YouTube.


Moveon.org is the brainchild of two Silicon Valley entrepreneurs
who founded the group in September 1998 out of frustration and
anger at the attention paid to the sex-and-lies scandal
surrounding then-president Bill Clinton.


The group, which has 3.3 million members, said it would hold two
other virtual town halls, on health care and global warming.

