

As trade friction between the United States and China deepens
over copyright piracy, Beijing is working hard to protect one
widely recognised global trademark -- the Olympic rings.


China is routinely denounced as the origin of most of the world's
counterfeit goods, and a frustrated Washington decided this week
to take it to the World Trade Organisation.


The non-profit Olympic Movement is a billion-dollar-a-year
business and the risks to the value of the brand from staging the
Games in the Chinese capital next year are real.


Already, Olympic knock-off products are available on the Internet
and hawkers line commercial streets here selling baseball hats
with the Olympic logo and the Beijing dancing-man Games trademark
for roughly one dollar.


The International Olympic Committee (IOC) maintains that the
Games represent "the most effective international corporate
marketing platform in the world, reaching billions of people in
over 200 countries and territories throughout the world."


That remains true only as long as the rights of sponsors are
protected.


Olympic insiders admit that China represents a tougher piracy
challenge than any other host country, although violators are
encountered everywhere.


"The fight to protect IPR (intellectual property rights) is
ongoing and absolutely key," an IOC spokesman who declined to be
named told AFP.


"In very simple terms, unless we look after IPR, it devalues the
brand, the Olympic values and the Olympic Games."


Officials of the Beijing Olympic organising committee, BOCOG, say
they will crack down on violators of Olympic copyright, using new
laws passed this year by the State Council, China's cabinet, with
the specific goal of protecting the Olympics from copyright
pirates.


"We are going to come down hard," said Yuan Bin, director of
marketing for the organising committee.


"I think that we do have some issues to be addressed... but we
have taken specific measures that have been very successful."


Certainly corporate sponsors have queued up to invest millions of
dollars in the Beijing Games, touted to be a money spinner
despite a decision by organisers to sell off tickets and Olympic
souvenirs at cheap rates so that ordinary Chinese with little
spending power can enjoy the Games.


"The Beijing Games represent excellent business opportunities and
you can see that from the number of sponsors they have got in
place and how quickly they have done that," the IOC spokesman
said.


Beijing organisers launched their marketing programme in 2003 and
big corporations moved swiftly for a piece of the sponsorship
pie.


"The sponsors were out of the gate very early for Beijing," said
Coca-Cola (China) vice president and general manager David
Brooks.


The soft-drink giant has been associated with the Olympics for
nearly 80 years but no Games has been more crucial than Beijing.


"The China effect obviously is playing a big role," he said.


"Look at the numbers of people in the host country. Athens (the
2004 Olympic Games host) had four million, and the whole country
10 million. Beijing has 16 million and the whole country has 1.3
billion."


Adidas chief executive Herbert Hainer, visiting Beijing last
month, said that the German sportswear firm had to battle hard to
win the fight to become the Beijing Olympics apparel sponsor.


"All the Americans and the big European firms wanted in.
Competition was fierce," he said.


The firm employs 60 lawyers worldwide to safeguard its IPR and
and has been hurt by trademark abuse in China.


"It represents a difficult challenge. But we are working closely
with BOCOG and we are confident," said Erica Kerner, Adidas
Olympic programme director.


No official figures are available for marketing income from the
Beijing Games, and some sponsorship programmes are still open.


However, Chinese officials have said in the past that they expect
to make more money from marketing than any other Olympic Games.

