

The United States told North Korea Wednesday to start shutting
down its nuclear programme, saying a banking row which obstructed
an international disarmament deal has finally been settled.


Chief US nuclear envoy Christopher Hill was speaking after the US
State Department announced that authorities in Macau had unfrozen
North Korean bank accounts there on Tuesday.


North Korea had refused to shut its Yongbyon nuclear reactor
until it receives 25 million dollars in funds frozen in Banco
Delta Asia (BDA) in Macau, after Washington blacklisted the bank
for allegedly laundering illicit funds.


"I think we have come to a very important juncture which is that
we consider this BDA matter to be really resolved," Hill told
reporters. "The DPRK (North Korea) has access to their accounts
now.


"We think it is a really important time to get on with the ever
urgent task of denuclearisation, in particular to get on with the
implementation of this February agreement."


Hill was speaking after talks with South Korean Foreign Minister
Song Min-Soon. Both men said the ball was now in North Korea's
court.


But Hill acknowledged it was unclear whether the banking moves
would satisfy the North. "That's obviously the key question and I
think we are going to find that out in the next day or so...
let's see what the North Koreans do today," he said.


A US team which visited Pyongyang this week and was due in Seoul
Wednesday may provide some answers.


The team led by New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson was
officially tasked with securing the remains of US troops killed
in the Korean War, but also discussed the nuclear dispute.


North Korean officials reportedly told them they would invite in
UN atomic agency inspectors to verify the reactor shutdown as
soon as the frozen funds were received.


Hill was to meet Richardson Wednesday afternoon before the
governor holds a press conference.


Richardson met Tuesday with North Korea's chief nuclear
negotiator but the official (North) Korean Central News Agency
did not say what was discussed.


Under a six-nation February 13 agreement, energy-starved North
Korea agreed to disable its nuclear facilities in return for one
million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid.


As a first step it was to shut down Yongbyon and invite UN
inspectors by April 14, receiving an initial 50,000 tons of oil
from South Korea in exchange.


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Tuesday the
deadline may be flexible given that there were only four days to
go.


"You're bumping up against the technical ability to do that
(shutdown) safely," he said. "We'll see where we are at on
Saturday."


The six-nation talks grouping the two Koreas, the US, China,
Russia and Japan have dragged on since 2003 but assumed added
urgency after the North tested an atomic bomb last October.


South Korea is ready to fulfil its side of the deal. It has
already bought 50,000 tons of fuel worth 20 billion won (21
million dollars) and signed a contract to hire three vessels to
carry it to the North.


The delay is costing it 15 million won a day to store the oil at
a refinery and 60 million won a day to maintain the ship rental
contract, the unification ministry said.

