

The US-led and British-backed war on terror is only fuelling more
violence by focusing on military solutions rather than on root
causes, a think tank warned Wednesday.


"The 'war on terror' is failing and actually increasing the
likelihood of more terrorist attacks," the Oxford Research Group
said in its study, titled "Beyond Terror: The Truth About The
Real Threats To Our World."


It said Britain and the United States have used military might to
try to "keep the lid on" problems rather than trying to uproot
the causes of terrorism.


It said such an approach, particularly the 2003 invasion of Iraq,
had actually heightened the risk of further terrorist atrocities
on the scale of September 11, 2001.


"Treating Iraq as part of the war on terror only spawned new
terror in the region and created a combat training zone for
jihadists," the report's authors argued.


It pointed out that the Islamist Taliban movement is now
resurgent, six years after it was overthrown in 2001 by the US-
led invasion in the wake of the September 11 attacks.


"Sustainable approaches" to fighting terrorism would involve the
withdrawal of US-led forces from Iraq and their replacement with
a United Nations stabilisation force, it said.


It also recommended the provision of sustained aid for rebuilding
and developing Iraq and Afghanistan as well as closing the US
prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where most suspects are held
without charge or trial.


And it called for a "genuine commitment to a viable two-state
solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict."


The study warned that military intervention in Iran over its
nuclear ambitions would be "disastrous," calling instead for a
firm and public commitment to a diplomatic solution.


Iran insists the programme is peaceful, despite claims from
Washington that it masks a drive for nuclear weapons.


The study also said the British government's plans to upgrade the
submarine- based Trident nuclear deterrent could produce
international instability.


"Nuclear weapon modernisation is likely to serve as a substantial
encouragement to nuclear proliferation as countries with
perceptions of vulnerability deem it necessary to develop their
own deterrent capabilities," it said.

