

Pakistani tribesmen have cleared all foreign militants from an
area on the Afghan border in an offensive that is a role model
for the rest of the region, a general said Wednesday.


But a key Uzbek Al-Qaeda-linked militant with a five-million-
dollar US bounty on his head has not been caught, regional
commander Major General Gul Muhammad told international media on
a rare trip to South Waziristan.


Muhammad also confirmed earlier reports that around 200 foreign
militants and around 40 tribesmen had died in fierce fighting
which broke out on March 19 after a mortar fired by the Uzbeks
killed several schoolchildren.


"The Uzbeks have been kicked out lock, stock and barrel from the
Wana Valley," Muhammad said at Sholam Post, a military checkpost
overlooking Wana, the mountain-fringed capital of South
Waziristan.


Reporters were flown to the remote region by helicopter.


"Wana will be the role model for the whole of South Waziristan
and North Waziristan," he said, referring to the neighbouring
tribal region where the army fought bloody clashes with
insurgents in 2006.


The tribesmen sheltered hundreds of foreign militants, including
Uzbeks who fled from Afghanistan after US-led forces toppled the
Taliban regime following the September 11, 2001 attacks on the
United States.


The army carried out major operations in South Waziristan in 2004
and 2005 but was unable to drive out militants because they had
the support of local tribesmen at the time, Muhammad said.


But the Uzbeks fell out with the Pakistani tribesmen over the
course of the past year after they killed several local people
and "were involved in kidnapping and car snatching. The locals
were sick of them," Muhammad said.


"We have total control of our area now. We have not got rid of
the Uzbeks entirely but they have been kicked out of Wana
Valley," Muhammad said. "With the help of the local population
now we hope to get rid of the miscreants."


The Pakistani military secured part of South Waziristan on Friday
after the tribesmen kicked out the militants, the first time the
army has moved in the region since signing a peace deal with
tribesmen in 2005.


Muhammad said that Uzbek commander Tahir Yuldashev -- who led an
Islamist group in his Central Asian former Soviet homeland and
who officials say had ties to Osama bin Laden -- remained at
large.


"Yuldashev could not be cornered," Muhammad said, adding as a
joke: "Who could be more interested than myself because he has a
five million dollar bounty?"

