

Australia opener Matthew Hayden said Tuesday that the World Cup
is too long and called for the marathon tournament to be trimmed.


"It's too long. It's too long for everyone," said Hayden with
another 18 days still to play in the 47-day marathon competition.


World Cup holders Australia played their first match in the
Caribbean, a warm-up game against Zimbabwe, back on March 5 in St
Vincent.


Since that time, they have played three first round group games
in St Kitts and three Super Eights matches in Antigua. But it's
the huge gaps in between which irk many players.


Australia's seven-wicket win over England on Sunday was their
first match in eight days; they won't play again until Friday
this week when they clash with debutants Ireland here.


"As a batter, it's nice to be able to get that continuous sort of
rhythm and once you get into that flow, you don't want to stop,"
added Hayden, the top run- scorer in the World Cup with 436.


International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm Speed
has defended the length of the tournament which will not finish
until the final at the Kensington Oval here on April 28.


"We are criticised sometimes because there is too much cricket
and we are criticised here because some of the breaks between two
matches are too long," said Speed.


"The team that wins this tournament will play 11 matches in 47
days - something like a match every four days - so there are
generally healthy breaks between matches."


The West Indies have been outraged by the schedule.


They played the first three of their six Super Eights matches in
the space of six days and then had a nine-day break where most of
the players took the opportunity to have a holiday.


Brian Lara's men, who were playing a make-or-break clash with
South Africa in Grenada on Tuesday, were to face another nine-day
interval before they took on Bangladesh on April 19.


Lara criticised the schedule after his team had slumped to a
lacklsutre 113-run defeat to Sri Lanka in Guyana on April 1.


"It was very tough," said Lara when his side failed to chase the
target of 304 to win.


"It was our fourth match in 10 days and you could see that some
of the guys were really flat in the field. (Fast bowler) Daren
Powell has lost 10km in the last few days."


Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jaywardene, whose team is on course for
the semi- finals, said his squad had planned for a lengthy
tournament.


"We knew the scheduling and we've prepared for this. We never
look further than our next game," Jayawardene told AFP.


"Some times you do need a break. It's a particularly important
thing for the fast bowlers to try to have. You need your best 11
playing at a World Cup."

