

A Syrian-American businessman at the heart of recent secret
unofficial peace talks between Israel and Syria arrived in Israel
on Wednesday ahead of his appearance before a top parliamentary
panel.


Ibrahim (Abe) Suleiman arrived in Israel a day before his
appearance before Knesset's powerful foreign affairs and defence
committee, said former foreign ministry director general Alon
Liel, who headed the Israeli side in the unofficial talks.


"We were invited by the foreign affairs and defence committee to
attend a meeting on Israel's approach towards Syria. We are
coming to tell them about the talks we held in the past," Liel
told AFP.


Suleiman and Liel headed two-year secret unofficial talks in
which understandings were reached for a peace treaty between
Syria and Israel.


Reports of the talks first appeared in Israeli press in January
and at the time, the Israeli and Syrian governments denied any
knowledge of the contacts, which were held in Europe between
September 2004 and July 2006 in the presence of a European
mediator.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has repeatedly rejected peace
overtures by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in recent months,
saying Damascus must first stop supporting militant groups in
Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, in part
because of disputes over the return of the Golan Heights, which
Israel captured from Syria in the 1967 Six Day War and
unilaterally annexed in 1981.


"Things have changed in recent months in the United States where
there are growing calls for talks with Syria," Liel said,
refusing to say whether Suleiman was bringing a new message from
Syria.


Earlier this month, US House speaker Nancy Pelosi made a
controversial visit to Damascus to meet President Bashar al-
Assad, following a trip to Israel where she met Olmert.


"The meeting with the president enabled us to communicate the
message from Prime Minister Olmert that Israel is ready to engage
peace talks as well," Pelosi said following her talks with Assad.

