

With Daisuke Matsuzaka waiting in the wings, the Boston Red Sox
made the most of their home opener Tuesday by pounding the
Seattle Mariners 14-3.


Josh Beckett pitched seven strong innings and J.D. Drew hit his
first home run of the season to lead the Red Sox to a victory
that was punctuated by an altercation between Red Sox reliever
Brendan Donnelly and Mariners outfielder Jose Guillen in the
eighth inning.


The 14 runs were the second most scored by Boston in a home
season opener. The Red Sox beat the New York Yankees 15-5 in
their 1973 home opener.


It was a momentum-building warm-up for Matsuzaka's Fenway debut
on Wednesday, which he admitted he expected to be a more
emotional experience than his first major league start in Kansas
City last week.


"Many great pitchers have performed at Fenway Park. When I stand
there, special emotions may come to me," Matsuzaka said. "This
game means a lot more to me personally. I think that (Fenway) is
a sacred place."


Adding to the intrigue is the fact that the Mariners lineup
features another Japanese superstar, Ichiro Suzuki.


"Ever since he left Japan to go to the Majors, he is someone I've
wanted to face again," Matsuzaka said.


There was little suspense at Fenway on Tuesday, as the Red Sox
took a 7-0 lead after two innings against a Mariners team that
had their entire four-game series with Cleveland postponed by
winter weather.


Beckett allowed one run and just two hits with eight strikeouts.


"Beckett had great command today and I think you could tell our
pitchers had a harder time with the layoff," Mariners' first
baseman Richie Sexson said.  "He threw off-speed pitches in
hitter's counts and whenever you can do that, you're going to be
effective."


Boston scored in each of the first five innings and made Jeff
Weaver's debut with the Mariners a short one.


Weaver, who helped the St. Louis Cardinals win a World Series
last season, lasted just two innings and allowed seven runs and
seven hits.


Boston jumped on Weaver for four runs in the first inning,
highlighted by Coco Crisp's two-run ground-rule double. An RBI
double by Kevin Youkilis and a two- run homer by Drew in the
second inning increased the lead to 7-0.


Drew has hit safely in all seven games this season and has an
11-game hitting streak, dating to last season.


After scoring a run in the third inning, the Red Sox added three
more in the fourth. Jason Varitek, who had three hits, hit a two-
run single to key the fourth and added an RBI double in the fifth
to open the lead to 13-1.


Donnelly and Guillen crossed swords in the eighth, when Donnelly
struck out Guillen on three pitches.


Donnelly and Guillen, former teammates in Anaheim, stared at one
another following the strikeout and then began shouting.


With bat in hand, Guillen walked toward the mound but was
intercepted by home plate umpire Phil Cuzzi. The benches emptied
with some shoving but no punches were thrown.


The two players have a history. In June 2005, Guillen made his
return to Angel Stadium as a member of the Washington Nationals.
In that game, Washington manager Frank Robinson accused Donnelly
of having pine tar on his glove. After inspecting the glove,
umpires ejected Donnelly.


It was later reported that Guillen tipped Robinson off about
Donnelly's possible use of a foreign substance.


When Tuesday's game resumed, Donnelly hit the next batter, Kenji
Johjima, in the thigh with a 1-1 pitch. Cuzzi immediately ejected
Donnelly and Guillen, who was still shouting from the dugout. The
game continued without further incident.


Sexson had a two-run double in the ninth inning for the Mariners.
Seattle leadoff hitter Suzuki struck out three times for the
first time since May 3, 2005.

