

Fifteen years after Disneyland Paris opened on a windy plain
outside the French capital, it has become one of the top tourist
draws in Europe but also a financial black hole.


Riding over a wave of Gallic outrage at the American cultural
"invasion," the park opened its gates on April 12, 1992 and some
175 million visitors have since passed through them.


But it has also lost hundreds of millions of euros and small
investors who paid 11 euros a share when Euro Disney went on the
stock market in 1989 now have stock worth about 0.09 euros each.


The American groups, the banks who have helped finance giant
restructuring have joined the little shareholders in deciding
that there is no magic script for making money from the park.


"We have as many visitors every year as the Eiffel Tower and the
Louvre put together," said Bertrand Schneiter, a delegate of an
interministerial panel in the Euro Disney project.


The management says it is Europe's top tourist destination,
highlighting the 12.8 million visitors, far outstripping the
rival Parc Asterix theme park devoted to the diminutive Gallic
cartoon hero and situated just north of Paris.


The socialist government in France in the late 1980s was generous
with funds and help, dipping deeply into its pockets to cough up
650 million euros (873 million dollars).


"It was a stroke of genius," said an official associated with the
project during its inception. "Disney negotiated to get a
suburban commuter line extended to the park and managed to get a
TGV high speed train link as well."


Private investment was 10 times higher than the French state's
but despite the massive inflow of cash, Euro Disney was in the
red for the first three years. In 1993 alone it lost more than
800 million euros.


Profits started to arrive in 1995 but a 2002 decision to open a
second park dedicated to Walt Disney films -- whose stars include
Mickey Mouse, Sleeping Beauty and Bambi -- plunged it into the
red again.


The park lost more than 70 million euros in 2006, its fifth
consecutive year of losses.


Disney employs about 12,000 people and generates at least 40,000
jobs in the region, according to government figures. But labour
relations in the Magic Kingdom have been rocky. Union complaints
of poor work conditions and strikes have been regular and some
local residents mockingly say they live in "Disney- town".


The park has gone through six bosses and last year a Swiss-
registered company, Center-Tainment, even launched the idea of a
hostile takeover offer.


Luckily none of the bad publicity has deterred the visitors who
come from across Europe. Walt Disney Co. now holds 39.8 percent
stake and renowned Saudi investor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal owns
10 percent.


Euro Disney has been forced to restructure its finances twice
since being launched and was facing insolvency as recently as
February 2005.


Meanwhile two plans to salvage the company's fiscal woes have
just managed to reduce its debt to 1.9 billion euros.


"Everyone wanted a share in the pie," one informed source told
AFP. "Banks, the state -- which wanted to attract investors --
Walt Disney, which gets the royalties ... but the biggest losers
were the petty shareholders."


Euro Disney's financial director Ignace Lahoud admitted as much
at the annual general meeting in February when he said: "There is
a long way to go before we notch up profits."


Meanwhile, plans are afoot for another mega-project to set up a
giant tourist complex near Euro Disney by 2010 which if it sees
the light of day, will be the biggest project in the area since
the theme park.

