

The four leading players in the Doha Round of global trade talks
held bilateral meetings on Wednesday ahead of a new attempt to
save the negotiations, but hopes for a breakthrough were slim.


The gathering brought together trade ministers of the G-4 trading
powers -- India, Brazil, the United States and the European Union
-- for the first time since the Doha discussions collapsed last
July when Washington refused to yield more ground in cutting farm
subsidies.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab, EU Trade Commissioner Peter
Mandelson, Indian Commerce Minister Kamal Nath and Brazilian
Foreign Minister Celso Amorim were holding bilateral sessions in
the Indian capital to discuss positions ahead of Thursday's G-4
session, an Indian government official said.


Thurday's meeting will cap a series of bilateral interactions
that have been under way since the breakdown of the World Trade
Organisation talks -- billed as a once in a generation chance to
lift millions out of poverty.


Mandelson said before arriving in New Delhi that the talks were
"timely and important" and warned that negotiations must be
accelerated or "Doha's prospects for this year will be lost."


But US officials have been downplaying expectations for
Thursday's meeting, calling it a "stock-taking" effort. Ministers
of Australia and Japan were slated to join the G-4 late on
Thursday for more talks.


The most that can be hoped "is for people to come on the same
page and agree there is a need to move forward," said T.S.
Vishwanath, head of international trade policy at the
Confederation of Indian Industry.


The WTO is racing against the clock to conjure up agreement in
the Doha Round before the end of June when the fast track trade
negotiating powers of US President George Bush expire.


A deal between the world's two biggest trading powers, the United
States and EU, and the two leading developing nations India and
Brazil, is seen as vital to hopes of brokering a compromise among
the WTO's 150 members this year.


Developing nations are pushing the United States and other
wealthy nations to slash farm subsidies, while poorer countries
are being squeezed to allow more access to their markets.


If a breakthrough can be achieved by June, a conclusion to the
Doha talks could be reached in about eight months, WTO officials
say. Otherwise the Doha round, launched in the Qatari capital in
2001, faces years of delay.


"There doesn't seem to be any willingness to compromise so in
that kind of situation, it's difficult to expect any favourable
outcome," said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG
Foundation, an Indian economic think-tank.


Nath has said there is "no commitment by India on the deadline"
and he would prefer no deal to a "bad deal."


"We want to go forward but the other nations have to meet the
needs of developing nations -- this is supposed to be the
development round after all," an Indian government official told
AFP.


Developing nations are being pressed to open their markets wider
to industrial goods and services while developed countries are
supposed to slash farm support and allow in more agricultural
imports in return.


India and other developing nations fear their fledgling
industries will be overwhelmed if their markets are forced open
to much more advanced countries.


And they want to protect the livelihoods of farming populations
-- up to 80 percent of the workforces in developing nations
depend on agriculture.

