

Around 200 people paraded the charred remains of a Buddhist woman
through the streets of Yala town Wednesday to protest the
unending violence in Thailand's restive Muslim-majority south.


The 26-year-old woman was shot Monday and her body then burned
beyond recognition in an attack blamed on Islamic militants who
have fought the government for three years in this region on the
Malaysian border.


The villagers wrapped her body in a white cloth and placed it at
the staircase leading into a government building where General
Sonthi Boonyaratglin, the head of the Thai junta, was meeting
with local leaders.


Angry residents of her village said they wanted to show Sonthi
how gruesome the attacks have become and to demand protection for
the Buddhist minority in the province, one of three along the
border hit by the unrest.


"Eight Buddhists have been killed and burned like this on the
same road. All the victims were from our village," one of the
victim's relatives told reporters.


Sonthi told them he was working with local officials to find ways
of reducing the daily violence that has claimed more than 2,000
lives since the insurgency erupted.


"I promise that we will do everything possible to better protect
innocent villagers," he said.


Yala has suffered the brunt of a recent escalation in attacks by
the shadowy militancy, which never claims responsibility for the
violence.


A 19-year-old Buddhist man was also killed Wednesday in Yala in a
drive-by shooting that also left his 47-year-old mother seriously
wounded.


Ten other people were killed on Monday alone, including four
Muslims shot dead while returning from the burial of a bombing
victim.


In nearby Pattani province, five officials from the Revenue
Department were wounded Wednesday when a roadside bomb exploded
near their van, police said.


Sonthi was on a two-day trip to meet Muslim religious leaders as
well as local government and military chiefs.


Sonthi told reporters as he arrived in Pattani that insurgent
attacks had become more lethal even as the number of incidents
had fallen.


"The attacks have decreased in number but the militants have
adjusted their strategies to be more violent and brutal in order
to terrify people," he said.


Sonthi said he feared the Islamic separatists were trying to
spark a broader communal conflict, and urged both Buddhists and
Muslims to work to reduce tension between the faiths.


"Don't fall into their trap. Villagers must be patient. The
militants want to create a sectarian war," he1 said.


Sonthi is the first Muslim to head the army in mainly Buddhist
Thailand. After he seized power in a coup in September, he
installed a government that promptly unveiled a raft of peace
measures for the region, only to see the violence worsen.

