

West Indies captain Brian Lara apologised to fans after his
team's World Cup hopes were shattered by South Africa in their
Super Eights match at the Grenada National Stadium Tuesday.


AB de Villiers slammed a maiden one-day international century to
set South Africa on the way to a 67-run win which effectively
ended the hosts' hopes of reaching the semi-finals.


"We don't deserve to be in the semi-finals and we say to our
people, we're sorry about that," said Lara.


"There are many more World Cups to come and we just hope the
young players in the team can regroup and get over it. It has
been a shock not only not to fulfil our dreams but the dreams of
the people of the Caribbean."


Lara said South Africa had outplayed his team.


De Villiers (146) and Jacques Kallis (81) put on 170 for the
second wicket and South Africa went on to hammer 356 for four
after being sent in.


West Indies managed 289 for nine in reply, with Ramnaresh Sarwan
hitting 92.


Lara said a key period of the game was when De Villiers and
Kallis went on the attack in the second powerplay.


"After the tenth over they pounced on us. Between ten and 15 they
scored 50 runs and that set the tone for the rest of the
innings."


The assault forced Lara to delay the third and final powerplay.


When he eventually took it in the 45th over Herschelle Gibbs and
Mark Boucher went on the rampage, adding 77 runs in five overs to
take South Africa to an insurmountable total.


"The powerplay was very difficult," said Lara.


"It was a bit dangerous to take it with two guys who seemed to
want to pounce on that situation. We were hoping to get a
breakthrough and it didn't really materialise."


Lara pointed out that the West Indies had been ranked below all
the major teams who had beaten them in the Super Eight phase -
Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and South Africa.


"We were the underdogs and we had to work really hard to win. All
I can say is that the teams played better cricket than us.
There's not much excuse I can give other than the fact that on
the day we were outplayed by the opposition."


He admitted: "We did not stand up to the pressure."


South African captain Graeme Smith said it was a "very important"
win for South Africa, coming just three days after a shock defeat
against Bangladesh in Guyana.


"It was a quick turnaround and there were always going to be some
nerves around this morning. Under that amount of pressure to come
out and play the way we did was more important than anything."


Opening batsman De Villiers, battling cramps, heat exhaustion and
dehydration, was the star of the day.


He hammered 146 despite needing treatment for cramp when he was
on 91. He also needed Smith to come on as a runner for him when
he was on 102.


Barely able to move, De Villiers went on the slog, hitting four
sixes off five balls - two each off spinners Chris Gayle and
Sarwan - as he raced from 100 to 146 off 16 balls.


De Villiers faced 130 balls and hit 12 fours and five sixes.


Kallis was also battling physical problems, needing attention
after straining a ligament in his left ankle.


Gibbs, who had been a doubtful starter because of a calf injury,
made 61 not out off 40 balls, while Boucher hit the third-fastest
World Cup fifty, off 22 balls before he was caught for 52.

