

The Iraqi people face an "ever-worsening crisis," the
International Committee of the Red Cross said Wednesday in a
report highlighting the growing suffering of civilians four years
after the US-led invasion.


"The suffering that Iraqi men, women and children are enduring
today is unbearable and unacceptable. Their lives and dignity are
continuously under threat," said the ICRC's director of
operations, Pierre Kraehenbuehl.


"It's clear for us that the humanitarian situation is steadily
worsening and affecting in one way or another, directly or
indirectly, all Iraqis today," he told journalists.


He was speaking at the launch of an ICRC report entitled
"Civilians Without Protection -- The Ever-Worsening Humanitarian
Crisis in Iraq," which focuses on the plight of civilians four
years after the regime of Saddam Hussein was toppled.


The ICRC urged all those involved in the conflict, both state and
non-state actors, to urgently respect international humanitarian
law and not target civilians.


US President George W. Bush's "surge" strategy of sending
thousands more troops to Baghdad to boost security has yet to
yield any noticetable improvement for civilians, Kraehenbuehl
said.


"We're certainly not seeing an immediate effect in terms of
stabilisation for the civilians currently," he said.


He stressed that it is very difficult to assess the overall
security situation given the constraints under which the relief
agency's staff operate.


Kraehenbuehl also said that while much of the violence is
sectarian in nature, with Shiite militia and suicide bombers
targeting Sunni civilians and vice versa, US and other foreign
troops must also take steps to avoid violations of international
humanitarian law.


Troops should always aim to distinguish between armed fighters
and civilians under the same roof, when conducting house-to-house
searches during a military operation in a village.


"When you fail to take the measures of precaution and distinction
of this nature, you have then increasing impact on civilians," he
added.


Kraehenbuehl said the worsening security situation was causing
"overlapping effects" of hardship for the civilian population,
with medical care deteriorating as doctors flee the country.


The Iraqi health ministry estimates that half of the country's
doctors have left, he said.


In addition, many injured people do not even seek out medical
treatment as they do not wish to leave their families for fear of
either being kidnapped en route or in hospital, or leaving their
relatives in a vulnerable situation.


"Much more has to be done" by all parties, including US and other
foreign troops, to improve the situation and ensure that
civilians' rights are respected, Kraehenbuehl said.


"Protecting Iraq's civilian population is a major priority and
should be everyone's priority," he added.

