

The euro held near a record high against the yen in Asian trade
Wednesday, buoyed by bright eurozone growth prospects and doubts
of any concerted efforts by world finance chiefs this week to
shore up the Japanese currency, dealers said.


The dollar meanwhile pared some of its losses seen in overseas
trade after Washington's decision to bring China to the World
Trade Organization for piracy and copyright violations, they
added.


The euro was at 159.99 yen in Tokyo morning trade after 159.97
late Tuesday in New York, when it had struck 160.12, the highest
since its creation.


The euro slipped to 1.3421 dollars from 1.3428, while the dollar
edged up to 119.22 yen from 119.02.


"The yen continues to be weak against the euro because of
positive French economic indicators and firm growth in the
eurozone which have made clearer the possibility of a rate rise
(by the European Central Bank) in June," said Dresdner Bank forex
strategist Kazuhiko Shibata.


The euro since May 2006 has risen 13.5 percent against the yen
while the dollar has gained 9.0 percent against the Japanese
currency, a trend largely reflecting interest rates in Japan that
are substantially lower than those in the eurozone and the United
States.


Japanese rates are currently at 0.50 percent compared with 3.75
percent in the eurozone and 5.25 percent in the United States.


Alongside firm growth in the eurozone, worries about the health
of the US economy have eased somewhat following last week's
surprisingly strong employment data for March, dealers said.


Market players remained divided as to whether the Group of Seven
finance ministers gathering this Friday in Washington will speak
out about the yen's weakness, which Europeans officials say is
hurting eurozone exports.


"The Bank of Japan has at least raised interest rates (last July
and again in February) so I think this time it will be difficult
for EU officials to ask the BoJ to raise one more time," said
Shibata.


Despite pressure from eurozone officials, the G7 ministers --
representing Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and
the United States -- made no specific mention of the weakening
yen at the previous meeting in Germany.


Traders were also monitoring a four-day visit to Japan by Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao which could help to thaw icy relations between
the two Asian giants.


"If the meeting goes well, then I think it would be positive for
Japanese shares and supportive for the yen," said Shibata.

