

Anglo-Dutch energy firm Royal Dutch Shell said on Wednesday it
would pay 352.6 million dollars (262.7 million euros) to settle
non-US claims related to an oil reserves crisis three years ago.


Shell admitted in 2004 that it had overstated proven oil and gas
reserves, leading to the departure of key executives and a
reorganisation of the company to restore investor confidence.


"Royal Dutch Shell plc today announced the proposed settlement of
claims outside the US related to the 2004 restatement of
reserves," Shell said in an official statement to the London
Stock Exchange on Wednesday.


"Without admitting any wrongdoing, Shell agreed to pay 352.6
million dollars, plus administrative costs, to investors covered
by the settlement."


The statement added: "Shell intends to offer the same
proportional settlement to investors in the US, provided the US
court overseeing the case approves."


Shell said Wednesday that it had signed the arrangement with
certain institutional investors led by Dutch pension funds ABP
and PGGM, the Shell Reserves Compensation Foundation, and the
Vereniging van Effectenbezitters (VEB), which represents
individual Dutch investors.


The company added that it would ask the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) to distribute to shareholders the 120
million dollars it paid in 2004 to resolve the regulator's
investigation into its overstated reserves.


Shell said it would pay the claims once the Amsterdam Court of
Appeals declared the settlement binding for all of the
shareholders it covers.


Shell was thrown into crisis in 2004 after revealing that it had
overstated its proven oil and gas reserves by about 6.0 billion
barrels in 2002 and 3.0 billion barrels in 2003. The steep
downgrades accounted for 29 percent and 10 percent of proven
reserves in those two respective years.


Some investors had blamed the 2004 reserves debacle on what they
viewed as Shell's complicated structure.


The episode led to the historic merger of the energy giant's two
holding companies.


Shell moved to a more traditional single-board structure in 2005,
with one chairman and one chief executive after scrapping its
dual-board arrangements based in Britain and the Netherlands.

