

Exiled former Pakistan prime minister Benazir Bhutto said
Wednesday she will not make any deals with President Pervez
Musharraf until he gives up his position as chief of the army.


Her comments to a private television channel come after Pakistani
officials said military ruler Musharraf had been in talks with
Bhutto, now in exile in Dubai and London, and her opposition
Pakistan People's Party (PPP).


There has been speculation that Bhutto, the country's first
female premier, could return home to stand in elections due at
the end of this year or early next and lend support to the
embattled Musharraf.


"I deny all reports of a deal. We don't want army rule as it is
not compatible with our politics," Bhutto told Hum TV in Dubai in
an interview to be aired later Wednesday, a transcript of which
was obtained by AFP.


"The contacts were there since 2002, and it's no secret. We are
dealing with issues as we want a reformist agenda. If something
happens I will tell you, but I've been hearing reports of a deal
for the last seven years," Bhutto said.


When asked if she would accept a deal with Musharraf still in
uniform, she replied: "Musharraf knows the opposition's views
about the uniform issue. He knows what civil society and people
from a cross-section of society want."


Musharraf, who seized power in a bloodless military coup in 1999
and has since become a key US ally in the "war on terror", faces
multiple challenges to his eight-year hold on power.


The most serious is a crisis over his removal of the country's
chief justice, which has sparked a series of protests backed by
Bhutto's party along with other opposition groups.


Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid told AFP last week that "serious
negotiations" were under way between the PPP and the government
but that they would not necessarily succeed.


But Bhutto also hit out at the goverment for failing to deal with
corruption cases which have been hanging over her and her husband
for the past 10 years and which forced them to go into exile.


Bhutto said that her contacts with Nawaz Sharif -- her exiled
former rival and successor as prime minister, with whom she has
formed the opposition Alliance for the Restoration of Democracy
-- were "intact".


The pair have held several meetings in the past year.


Meanwhile Bhutto also criticised Musharraf for failing to tackle
a "soft revolution" by Islamists, after a hardline mosque in
Islamabad threatened to launch suicide bombings and issued a
fatwa against a female minister.

