

Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta is set to contest the runoff vote
in East Timor's presidential election against the ruling party's
Francisco Guterres, election officials said Wednesday.


Ramos-Horta, the tiny nation's current prime minister, had 22.6
percent of the vote with most of the ballots counted, behind the
powerful Fretilin party's Guterres, on 28.79 percent, the
national election commission said.


"The most probable result is Ramos-Horta will contest the second
round," said Martinho Gusmao, a commission spokesman.


The commission earlier said Guterres, popularly known as Lu-Olo,
was through to the May 8 runoff in East Timor's first election
for the largely ceremonial post of president since independence
in 2002.


The second round is being held as no candidate from eight
hopefuls garnered more than 50 percent of the vote in the race to
succeed the charismatic former guerrilla leader Xanana Gusmao,
who is not seeking re-election.


International observers have said Monday's election was generally
open, orderly and peaceful after fears violence would erupt in
the former Portuguese colony which has been plagued by deadly
unrest.


However five candidates filed a formal protest Wednesday saying
the poll was not fairly conducted, and that counting should be
stopped immediately.


"We can disclose evidence that the process is not fair," said one
of the five, Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo of the opposition
Democrat Party, who was lying in third place.


They cited a climate of intimidation and terror during the poll
as a reason for their action, in a protest letter sent to the
election commission and copied to the UN mission in East Timor
and Gusmao.


They also called for the vote count to be stopped until ballot
boxes were properly secured, and the count only resumed in the
presence of candidates and other observers.


Neither contenders Lu-Olo nor Ramos-Horta were among the five
behind the letter.


The election followed a turbulent year in East Timor. Violence
erupted in April and May last year after the prime minister at
the time, Fretilin's Mari Alkatiri, dismissed hundreds of army
deserters.


Firefights subsequently broke out between factions of the
military as well as between the army and police, and degenerated
into gang violence.


Some 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced during the
unrest. Tens of thousands have yet to return to their homes in
the impoverished country, which was ruled by Indonesia between
1974 and 1999.


East Timor voted for independence in a UN referendum in 1999 and
gained formal independence in 2002.

