

Pakistan cricket managers are struggling to choose a new captain
for the national team after prime candidate Younis Khan set
conditions for accepting the job, official sources said
Wednesday.


Khan, who was deputy to former skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq for nearly
two years, is demanding full powers like his powerful
predecessor, a condition unacceptable to the Pakistan Cricket
Board (PCB), board sources said.


Following the country's humiliating first-round exit from the
World Cup in Caribbean the PCB says it wants to put in place a
new code for players and the captain.


"The new strategy envisages strong checks and balances on the
captain to curtail his role in selecting players and dictating
terms to the coach and the management, as has been the practice
in the past," a PCB official told AFP.


"Younis Khan wanted to be an all-powerful captain and is
reluctant to accept curbs," the official said on condition of
anonymity.


The PCB wants to curtail "player power", which it believes has
been responsible for the poor showing of the national team in big
tournaments.


The official said announcement of the captain had been delayed as
the board authorities try to resolve the problem.


However a cricket board spokesman said the delay in choice of men
for the two key posts was not due to any differences with Khan.


"The board is still discussing various options on who should be
appointed as captain and coach for the team," spokesman Ahsan
Malik told AFP.


"We have not reached the stage where we can offer captaincy to
any player, we have chalked out a criterion and once that is
settled we will announce the name."


Khan was appointed as Pakistan captain for the Champions Trophy
in India in October when Inzamam was banned for bringing the game
into disrepute during the Oval Test ball-tampering controversy
last year.


But Khan initially refused the role at the time, saying he did
not want to be a "dummy captain", apparently over differences
with some of the senior players and over some selections.

