

Around 20 militants were killed and nine suspects detained amid
fierce clashes in central Baghdad, the US and Iraqi authorities
overseeing a military crackdown in the capital said on Wednesday.


US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Scott Bleichwehl told
AFP in an email that 20 militants were "killed in action" during
the fight that broke out early Tuesday and raged for several
hours.


A separate statement issued on behalf of Operation Fardh al-
Qanoon (Imposing Law) by Iraqi authorities said "19 terrorists"
were killed over the past 24 hours in the central Rusafa region,
where the fighting took place.


"The operation was part of military plan Fardh al-Qanoon to get
rid of terrorists and takfiris (Sunni extremists) during the past
24 hours," it said.


Iraqi and US troops backed by helicopter gunships battled
insurgents in the Al- Fadhel area of Rusafa, in firefights that
the US military said late Tuesday had killed four Iraqi soldiers
and wounded 16 American troops.


US combat helicopters were slightly damaged when they came under
small arms fire during the gunfights and briefly had to return to
base.


Bleichwehl said 13 of the 16 wounded American troops had since
returned to duty and that on Wednesday there was "currently no
fighting or large-scale operation ongoing in that area."


He said routine patrols, however, were continuing.


On Tuesday, Iraqi and US troops conducting routine cordon and
search operations in Rusafa were rapidly ambushed by small arms
fire in Al-Fadhel, and air assets were called in, the US military
said.


The Iraqi statement released on Wednesday also said that "29
terrorists and 38 suspects" were arrested across Baghdad in the
past 24 hours.


Three more militants were killed in other clashes during the same
period, the statement added.


Iraqi and US troops have waged a massive security crackdown in
the capital for nearly two months that has seen American
officials upbeat about signs of progress and a decline in
execution-style killings.

