

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz is in the hotseat heading
into an annual meeting of the powerful lender, under fire over an
anti-graft drive and whopping pay hikes given to his partner.


The former deputy US defense secretary has been embarrassed by
the controversy surrounding his girlfriend, an ex-World Bank
staffer, just as he battles to overcome skepticism about his
campaign against corruption.


Wolfowitz looks distinctly beleaguered coming after a series of
battles with the bank's executive board, according to Manish
Bapna, director of the Bank Information Center, an independent
group which tracks World Bank affairs.


"Reasonable people are beginning to ask whether Wolfowitz has
become such a liability that he may not be best positioned to
guide the World Bank through its current crisis of relevance," he
said.


"Some critics, both inside and outside the bank, are arguing that
it is time for the international community to consider a new
chief and a fresh start."


Last month Wolfowitz hailed unanimous support from national
representatives on the executive board for his corruption
campaign, which has had to be repeatedly watered down in the face
of virulent criticism.


But the criticism has not gone away, and is likely to be aired
again when bank member states convene for Sunday's spring meeting
held jointly with the International Monetary Fund.


"How can the WB talk about governance when its president broke
international legality with the Iraq war?" Mexican officials said
during a consultation process late last year, according to
documents posted on the bank website.


That consultation was commissioned after a September meeting of
the bank and IMF, in Singapore, when major European powers like
Britain lined up with developing nations to assail Wolfowitz's
strategy as misguided.


In going after graft, the World Bank risked jeopardizing its
development work among some of the planet's most needy people,
they argued.


Wolfowitz has been forced to backtrack from initial plans to
bypass national governments more, in a bid to ensure that aid
gets to the deserving.


According to a Fox News report, some of the World Bank's biggest
borrowers such as China and India are now threatening to go
elsewhere for funds, which would undermine the bank's very reason
for existence.


But one senior World Bank official denied that the pursuit
against graft was going off the rails.


"It's gone forward and we've not heard about any countries that
are having second thoughts or planning to withdraw," he told AFP,
declining to be named.


"For those of us in the trenches, we're very excited as there's
unanimous consensus about the bank going forward on good
governance."


Since he was nominated two years ago by the US government to
succeed James Wolfensohn, Wolfowitz has made it his top priority
to root out graft in the World Bank's 20-billion-dollar annual
lending.


As the Fox report noted, a "rebellion" by big borrowers risks
undermining Wolfowitz's parallel effort to replenish the bank's
depleted coffers by raising up to 25 billion dollars in new funds
from its richer members.


And now, a whiff of scandal is in the air at the World Bank's
imposing Washington headquarters after the revelations over
Wolfowitz's Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza.


She was pulled off her job as a communications officer at the
World Bank and assigned to the US State Department in September
2005, shortly after Wolfowitz took over at the lender's helm, to
prevent any conflicts of interest.


While still on the World Bank payroll, Riza was then rapidly
promoted and ended up being paid nearly 200,000 dollars by the
bank for her work at the State Department, more even than
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, sparking fury among bank
staff.


In an extraordinary statement Monday to staff that did not
mention Riza by name, Wolfowitz accepted "full responsibility"
over the case but said he had "acted on the advice" of the bank's
ethics committee.


"It's ironic that Mr. Wolfowitz lectures developing countries
about good governance and fighting corruption, while winking at
an irregular promotion and overly generous pay increases to a
partner," said Bea Edwards, international director of the
Washington-based Government Accountability Project.

