

A panoply of events kick off this week in the northern Italian
city of Turin in memory of Primo Levi, an Auschwitz survivor who
wrote powerful memoirs, fiction and poetry and wound up taking
his own life.


His death 20 years ago Wednesday at age 67 came more than 40
years after his return from the death camp in Nazi-occupied
Poland.


Levi's "If This Is a Man" (published in the United States as
"Survival in Auschwitz"), considered a Holocaust classic in many
school curriculums, was published in Italy in 1947 just after his
return from Auschwitz.


The book has since been translated into some 30 languages, and
about 200,000 copies a year are still sold in Italy alone.


Ironically Einaudi, a major publisher in Levi's native Turin,
initially rejected the manuscript, which was first published by a
small house that printed only 1,500 copies.


Next Wednesday Turin will unveil an exhibit titled "Primo Levi,
Because This Is a Man."


Mounted by French literature professor Philippe Mesnard, the show
will open simultaneously in the French city of Lyon at its Centre
of Resistance and Deportation History.


Both shows explore all facets of Levi, not just his role as a
Shoah witness.


"Critics have long refused him the rank of writer," said Marco
Belpoliti, an editor at Einaudi who handled all of Levi's works
and who has created a 10-part radio programme that began Monday
on public station Rai.


"He did not become a writer simply from his concentration camp
experience, but Auschwitz gave him the 'soil' for writing. Before
the camp, he already wanted to write but he didn't have a
literary identity. The pairing of witness-writer complicates his
work, but enriches it too," Belpoliti told AFP.


The panels of the exhibit are tinted with colours that change as
the visitor passes by, a reflection of Levi's training as a
chemist that allowed him to escape death by working in an
Auschwitz laboratory.


"Levi had an almost geometrical way of thinking," said historian
Walter Barberis. "This simplicity is evident in his writing,
influenced by his scientific culture."


Mesnard agreed, saying Levi wanted "to explain without making a
priori judgements, putting into place all the elements, even
those that could have seemed the most incomprehensible. Chemistry
gave him an analytical and investigative framework."


Barberis will host an evening of lectures in Turin on Levi's 1986
collection of essays "The Drowned and the Saved" in which he
warned that a Holocaust could recur.


Levi's poems inspired the Spanish composer Luis de Pablo, whose
works will be performed Thursday and Friday in Turin.


Born into a family that was not very devout, Levi's Jewishness
suddenly became a liability in 1938 when Mussolini's government
enacted a series of anti-Semitic regulations.


In an interview with the Italian daily La Stampa in early 1987,
published for the first time on Saturday, he related that his
father told him he was Jewish when he was four years old.


"I didn't understand, and I associated the word 'Jewish' (ebreo
in Italian) with the word 'book' (libro)".


Only a few weeks after the interview he threw himself down the
stairwell of his apartment building in Turin.


"I am not even alive enough to know how to kill myself," he had
written in "If This Is a Man" at age 27.


Barberis told AFP he thinks the suicide was not linked to Levi's
Auschwitz experience. "He was depressed for private reasons, ill
and convinced that he had little time left to live."


Mesnard, for his part, said: "He was depressed and extremely
tired of being a witness. He felt like a professional survivor."

