

Reform of the six-decade-old International Monetary Fund appears
to be hitting a roadblock as richer powers hold out against any
loss of influence, analysts say.


Heading into the Fund's spring meeting Saturday, IMF managing
director Rodrigo Rato admitted this week that no breakthrough was
on the horizon for the global financial policeman's planned
overhaul.


"The problem is some political decision(making)," he said,
expressing hope that the IMF can "narrow down" a new voting
formula for its 185 members by the autumn and then get down to
detailed changes.


Under US and European domination since its inception towards the
end of World War II, the IMF has traditionally been a lender of
last resort to countries embroiled in financial crisis.


But 10 years after crisis swept through East Asian economies, the
IMF is seen as barely relevant to fast-emerging powers like
China.


At annual talks in September, the IMF raised the voting power of
China and three other countries -- South Korea, Mexico and Turkey
-- but still faces disquiet from many members about deeper
reform.


In the second phase of reform, Rato hopes for a broader
redistribution of votes while preserving the say of its poorest
countries. But that means some countries, like the United States
and European powers, would have to lose out.


"They're rearranging the deckchairs on the Titanic," said Mark
Weisbrot, co- director of the Center for Economic and Policy
Research in Washington, who argued that the IMF faces an
inexorable loss of power.


"This is an institution that's been controlled by the US for 60
years. They're not going to give that up," he said.


Talk of an Asian monetary fund has revived, while Latin American
countries are pressing ahead with their own multilateral lending
initiative.


Meanwhile, a slew of countries like Argentina and Brazil have
been paying off their IMF debts early, eager to escape the
Washington institution's economic tutelage.


And with world financial markets awash in private capital, all
but the poorest countries have easy access to other sources of
cash, a headache also for the IMF's sister body, the World Bank.


The disquiet was laid bare even as the IMF signed off on the
first stage of reform in Singapore.


Indonesian Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati said at the
time that the World Bank and IMF must act as "partners, not
preachers."


"The future is going to be regional and alternative development
institutions that are really oriented more towards their own
region's growth," Weisbrot said.


In parallel, criticism has mounted over the historic arrangement
whereby the World Bank is led by an American and the IMF by a
European.


That system must change, according to recommendations issued
Tuesday by the New Rules for Global Finance Coalition, a panel of
academics, development experts and former government officials.


The panel said that "a well-functioning global financial system
requires a global institution with the mandate of the IMF that is
responsive to its membership, and accountable through its
shareholders to the global community."


But for Edwin Truman, who served as assistant US Treasury
secretary for international affairs under president Bill Clinton,
the IMF's attempts to boost its relevance have been only
"modest."


Truman, now a senior fellow at the Institute for International
Economics, said also that Rato's drive to boost multilateral
surveillance of policies among leading members had "foundered" on
the rock of Chinese resistance.


Political leadership is needed to drive the next phase of reform,
he added in a commentary: "Unfortunately, political leadership
appears to be draining away, including by the United States."

