

Oil prices were slightly lower in Asian trade Wednesday ahead of
a US weekly snapshot of energy inventories, dealers said.


At 11:32 am (0332 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, lost three cents to 61.86
dollars a barrel from 61.89 dollars a barrel in late US trades.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery was down one
cent to 67.41 dollars a barrel.


The gap between the Brent and New York contracts -- at about five
dollars -- is at a record margin owing to oversupply in the
central United States, dealers said.


"We are trading at the low 60 dollars level. That's the price
level before the seizure of the British sailors. We are back to
the level now, and the fundamental support in the market is
preventing the pricing from falling below this," said Victor
Shum, senior principal at energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz.


The price of crude futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange
shot up to above 66 dollars a barrel after Iran captured 15 Royal
Navy sailors and marines in the Gulf on March 23. They flew home
last week after their release.


"The product market overall remains relatively tight and the US
energy report is expected to be bullish and providing some
fundamental support," Shum said, referring to the US Department
of Energy inventory report to be issued later Wednesday.


"The general expectation is a bullish inventory report providing
fundamental support to crude futures," he said.


US gasoline reserves are being closely watched ahead of the
summer season when American drivers take to the highways for
holiday.


"People are expecting a continual gasoline stock draw which has
been the trend in the first quarter of this year. The product
demand is good and it is tightening the balance before the
driving season" Shum said.


In the long term, lingering geopolitical issues including Iran's
contentious nuclear programme are providing support to the
market, he added.


The European Union on Tuesday urged Tehran not to defy the United
Nations, increasing international diplomatic pressure on Tehran
after its claim that it could enrich uranium on an "industrial
scale".


The Islamic republic insists its nuclear drive is solely intended
to generate energy, while the United States accuses it of seeking
a nuclear weapon.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appeared to be in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer
of crude, may disrupt its oil exports should it be hit harder at
the United Nations.

