

Chinese art buyers have made a huge impact on the Asian market
and are now poised to make inroads into the high-value
international scene, says the new Asia chairman of one of the
world's major auction houses.


Kevin Ching says one of his aims as the newly-appointed chairman
of Sotheby's in Asia is to see the first Asian bid for a European
Impressionist piece.


And he thinks he may already have some potential buyers.


"I have been talking to some collectors in the past few months --
a few of them expressed an interest," Ching explains on the
sidelines of the auction house's Hong Kong spring sale.


"I think they take satisfaction from being involved in auctions
-- and if you are involved in the international market, the
satisfaction levels are higher," he adds.


Chinese buyers have dominated Sotheby's four-day sale of Asian
art, historical artifacts, watches and jewellery this week.


For the first time, an entire collection -- from the private
collection of a Parisian connoisseur of Chinese art -- was sold
to Chinese buyers Sunday, for more than 128 million dollars.


The day before, a new record was set for a Chinese painting sold
at auction when a rare politically-themed oil by Xu Beihong, "Put
Down that Whip",  went under the hammer for 72 million dollars.


The sales illustrate the sudden surge of worldwide interest in
Asian art. Sotheby's alone has seen sales at its annual Asian art
auctions soar from 400 million Hong Kong dollars in 2000 to 2
billion dollars in 2006.


Such is the growing worldwide interest in Asian art that the
auction house will add Paris as a sales venue for the region's
treasures, in addition to New York, London and Hong Kong .


At the heart of this growth is Hong Kong, which has overtaken
Tokyo as the heart of the region's art market and accounts for 70
percent of all Asian art sales at Sotheby's.


Ching takes over from Henry Howard-Sneyd, who built up the
company's regional footprint and will now run the New York
offices.


Though a financial lawyer by training, and despite spending much
of his career working for Dickson Concepts -- the Hong Kong firm
that owns high-end retail outlets like Harvey Nichols -- Ching
had been courted by Sotheby's for ten years because of his
interest in the arts.


"I am a collector myself, I collect Chinese jadeite," explains
the dapper Ching, who, in a sleek charcoal grey suit and thick-
rimmed glasses, looks far younger than his 50 years.


"I had contacts through other collectors and an understanding of
how the market works. It is a thrill to be able to take up a job
that is rooted in my hobby -- I suppose I did it out of some sort
of mid-life crisis.


"High-end retail and the art market do have some similarities --
they both appeal to the same customers, for example," he said.


Ching takes over a business much-changed from the one Howard-
Sneyd inherited in 2000.


"Certainly the biggest difference is the Chinese involvement," he
explains. "Chinese buyers are by no means dominant but they have
certainly become a force."


He attributes Sotheby's soaring business in the region to the
tenacity and talent of his predecessor, a charismatic character
in the local art world.


"He has only ever worked in one company, Sotheby's -- and what he
has achieved here is frightening," added Ching.


One of Howard-Sneyd's deftest touches was to introduce
contemporary Chinese art sales to the auction house's annual
calendar. The move has been a successful one and helped put
modern Chinese art on the map.


Ching refutes claims that much of China's contemporary art have
been overvalued by over-zealous first-time Chinese buyers
snapping up new works out of a sense of patriotic loyalty.


"In the contemporary market, the majority of buyers are western,
not Chinese, so that argument falls down," he says. "Much of
modern Chinese art employs the sort of communist imagery and
Cultural Revolution imagery that western buyers are fascinated by
but I think Chinese buyers find commonplace."


He does believe, however, that patriotism has played a role in
the development of the market for more historical Chinese pieces.


"As Chinese people have become richer I think they have taken to
associating themselves with China's powerful past, so they buy up
the artifacts of the imperial periods.


"I wouldn't say this is the over-riding reason they buy -- they
buy mostly as investments -- but it is certainly in the back of
their minds," Ching says.

