

The founder of Indian software maker Infosys Technologies Ltd.
has apologised amid a furore over the playing of the national
anthem during a presidential visit to a company facility.


N.R. Narayana Murthy apologised after an instrumental version of
the anthem, Jana Gana Mana, was played rather than following the
tradition of having on- stage singers lead the audience.


Murthy told reporters that version was chosen for Sunday's visit
by President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam so that foreigners in the
audience didn't feel uncomfortable mouthing the words.


The remarks provoked calls for Murthy's arrest in the assembly of
the southern state of Karnataka where the Infosys facility is
based.


"He should be externed from the state," local daily Vijay Times
quoted lawmaker Vatal Nagaraj as saying.


"He has insulted the national anthem in the presence of the
president."


The 60-year-old Murthy, chief mentor of Infosys, issued a damage-
control statement late Tuesday.


"If the media statement has hurt anybody's sentiments, I deeply
apologize.


"We wished to share the pride of being an Indian in the gracious
presence of our president. We are informed this is as per
protocol."


A company spokesman added Wednesday that the instrumental version
was played so the whole audience, given its "multi-cultural"
nature, could hum along during the visit to the Infosys campus in
Mysore, near Bangalore.


Foreign software code writers work at the Indian facilities of
Infosys, which derives a lion's share of its revenue from sales
abroad.


Murthy's frequent criticism of the political establishment for
doing little to fix the deficient infrastructure in Bangalore,
India's Silicon Valley, and other parts of Karnataka has won him
few friends in the corridors of power.


The Infosys founder is an icon in India's booming software
industry, consistently ranked by surveys among the country's most
admired business leaders.


He set up the company in 1981 with six other software
professionals who pooled savings of 10,000 rupees (225 dollars)
borrowed from their wives.


Infosys today has 69,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue
in excess of two billion dollars.

