

Share traders at German public-sector banking giant WestLB are
suspected of manipulating share prices in order to boost the
bank's trading profits and their own performance-related bonuses,
the Financial Times Deutschland reported on Wednesday.


The newspaper quoted banking sources familiar with the matter as
saying that the traders were suspected of manipulating the daily
closing prices of preference shares in companies such as Metro,
BMW and Volkswagen.


In doing so, they boosted, on paper at least, the profits of
WestLB's proprietary trading division, thereby securing
themselves hefty bonuses, FT Deutschland said.


A 100-million-euro (134-million-dollar) loss sustained from
botched VW trades last week was simply an accident related to
such practices, the newspaper quoted the sources as saying.


On Tuesday, WestLB said it would file criminal complaints against
two former traders, as well as third parties allegedly involved
in the trades.


Markus Bodder, executive director of equity trading, and his boss
Friedhelm Breuers, co-head of global markets, left the bank last
week after WestLB said they had breached internal risk limits.


"The managing board has decided to initiate criminal proceedings
against the two former employees and third parties for breach of
the German securities trading and the criminal code," WestLB
said.


The financial sector watchdog, BaFin, said it would investigate
the circumstances surrounding the botched trades.


"We will investigate this case looking at all relevant regulatory
aspects," a BaFin spokeswoman said.


According to the newspaper report, the losses occurred from
botched speculation trading on movements in the price of VW
shares.


WestLB's in-house or proprietary trading desk had speculated on
the price difference between the car maker's common shares and
preference shares, betting that the spread between the two
classes of shares would shrink, the newspaper said.


But the opposite happened in the wake of the announcement that
luxury sports car maker Porsche was increasing its stake in VW,
FT Deutschland said.

