

French nuclear group Areva on Wednesday formed a strategic
alliance with Australian uranium explorer Summit Resources Ltd
which could block a hostile takeover bid by miner Paladin
Resources.


Summit said the arrangement would give the company a greater
ability to take uranium assets to production without ceding
control.


"As a result of this strategic alliance, we will have the backing
of the world's leading uranium industry player, which will
significantly enhance our ability to unlock value for our
shareholders as we take our world-class uranium assets from
exploration success, through mine development to production,"
Summit chief executive Alan Eggers said.


"Areva's vote of confidence in our project and our future not
only vindicates our belief that we have a world-class project,
but also justifies our recommendation to reject Paladin's
inadequate offer."


Summit directors earlier this year rejected Paladin's one billion
dollar (825 million US) takeover bid, deeming it opportunistic
and inadequate.


Under the arrangement with Areva, the French company will take an
initial nine percent stake in Summit, buying 19.5 million shares
at 6.20 dollars each.


Areva will have the option of buying a further nine percent at
7.20 dollars per share within two to six months of the first
placement.


Summit said it was confident Areva would take the full 18 percent
holding for a total investment of 292.6 million dollars (241
million US) at an average of 6.75 dollars per share.


Once the two placements go ahead, Areva will be able to market
two-thirds of Summit's share of potential uranium production from
its Australian projects.


Areva will also provide technical advice to Summit on its Mount
Isa uranium project and be allowed to have a representative on
the company's board of directors.


"This was about a long-term relationship, Areva has stated, quite
clearly, that it is not about control of Summit," Eggers said.


"Most importantly, we will have a platform on which to develop a
lasting relationship with the leading global marketer of uranium
with a demonstrated track record of achieving premium prices for
its customers."


Summit shareholders are expected to meet next month to consider
the proposed share issue which must also satisfy Australia's
foreign investment laws.


Summit shares closed up 65 cents at 5.80 dollars on Wednesday.


Australia has the world's largest known deposits of uranium but
only two mines are commercially operational in the country.


New uranium mines are restricted by state bans but the federal
government is pushing for these to be overturned to allow for the
development of the country's nuclear industry.

