

Lama and Dima Hattab are 26-year-old Jordanian twins with
adventure in their souls. Experienced marathon runners, the women
have turned to mountains -- and now have Everest firmly in their
sights.


Their aim is to become the first Arab women to conquer a series
of the world's highest peaks starting in June of this year, with
Everest itself the hoped-for summit of their achievement in March
2009.


The women have taken part in endurance races in Jordan and Europe
as long as 150 kilometres (90 miles), but their planned new quest
-- if the financing is secured -- will take them all over the
globe.


February, for example, was spent training in Alaska, where Dima
and Lama were adapting "to the climatic conditions found on top
of mountains," they told AFP.


With July will come the first major challenge for the IT
graduates -- Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. At 5,895 metres (19,453
feet) high, it is the African continent's tallest mountain.


"We have our schedule all planned out," said Lama. "We start with
Kilimanjaro and finish with Mount Everest" at (8,848 metres,
29,028 feet).


But before tackling the mountain known in Nepal as Sagarmatha and
in Tibet as Chomolungma, the twins have a list of other peaks
that must be beaten first.


At 6,962 metres (22,841 feet), Aconcagua in Argentina is South
America's highest peak.


Alaska's Mount McKinley is 800 metres (2,624 feet) shorter than
Aconcagua, but Tibet's Cho-Oyu in the Himalayas at 8,201 metres
(27,063 feet) is nearly as high as their ultimate goal.


"We aim to be the first Arab women to climb these mountains and
get into the Guinness Book of Records," one of the twins said.


Climbing Everest because "it is there," in the famous words of
British climber George Mallory in 1923 when asked by a reporter
why he wanted to scale the mountain, is not the Hattab twins'
only motive.


"We're determined to change attitudes in the Middle East, where
people doubt the ability of women to endure the same physical
challenges as men," one twin said.


Dima cited the Wadi Rum marathon in their native Jordan as an
example.


The three-day event is run across 168 kilometres (104 miles) of
awesome desert which inspired Lawrence of Arabia to write his
classic "Seven Pillars of Wisdom."


"When we took part, many people made fun of us and said things
like 'But what are you doing out here in the desert? Go home to
your parents'," Dima said.


"Hearing such comments made us very sad. We had hoped that people
would applaud us for taking part, rather than the other way
round."


The short-haired Hattab twins are no fools. They know what lies
ahead -- some of the harshest weather on earth, temperatures of
minus 30 C (minus 22 F) and very little oxygen at such high
altitudes.


"We know all that. And don't forget avalanches -- that's why
we've just spent a month training in Alaska," they said, pulling
out photographs of themselves in climbing gear undergoing
survival training in the United States.


But in addition to everything nature can throw at them, Lama and
Dima face a rather more down-to-earth obstacle that also needs to
be overcome -- money to finance their costly project.


"Everest alone will cost us nearly half a million dollars (370
million euros) -- each. And we also have to pay for the other
expeditions leading up to it," they said.


For the moment, only the King Abdullah II Development Fund has
expressed a willingness to help finance their adventures, and now
the twins are hoping that corporate sponsors will also step in.


They have already contacted major companies in Jordan, with the
aim of securing the backing for a series of adventures that will
make them household names across the Arab world.

