

Japanese machinery orders fell by more than expected in February,
the government said Wednesday, sparking jitters about domestic
corporate capital spending, a key pillar of the economic
recovery.


Private-sector core orders fell 5.2 percent from the previous
month, after gaining a total of about 10 percent over the
previous four months, the Cabinet Office said.


Market forecasts had been for a decrease of about 0.2 percent
after a rise of 3.9 percent in January.


Year-on-year, the core domestic orders -- which exclude
particularly volatile demand from power companies and for ships
-- were down 4.2 percent in February, after a 2.6 percent gain in
January.


"Growth in (domestic) orders remains unimpressive," noted Richard
Jerram, chief economist for Macquarie Securities in Tokyo who
expects a gain of about 3.0 percent in the orders in the fiscal
year to March 2007.


"In contrast, foreign orders for Japanese machinery remain very
strong, with February the second-best month on record," he added.


Foreign orders jumped 23.5 percent from January and were up 15.6
percent year- on-year. Total orders rose 5.5 percent month-on-
month and increased 6.2 percent from a year earlier.


"The headline was poor, but growing overseas orders are pushing
orders value toward the historical high," said Morgan Stanley
economist Takehiro Sato.


Machinery manufacturers expect the core orders to rise 2.2
percent in the three months to March from the previous quarter.


Analysts noted that the soft domestic orders contrasted with the
generally upbeat plans of Japanese companies for spending on
plants and equipment.


The Bank of Japan's Tankan survey of over 10,000 firms showed
this month that large companies expected to raise capital
spending by 2.9 percent in the current fiscal year to March 2008,
after an 11.9 percent rise last year.


Japanese firms tend to be cautious on spending at the start of
the fiscal year and gradually upgrade their plans. At the start
of the last fiscal year, large companies had forecast only a 2.7
percent gain.


Analysts said the soft orders were unlikely to affect the Bank of
Japan's decision on when to raise interest rates again, although
views are divided on the likely timing of the next hike after a
recent drop in consumer prices.


"Together, these figures suggest the BoJ should be able to
continue normalising interest rates at a gradual pace, without
any immediate threat of overcooling or overheating," argued
Barclays Capital economist Takuji Aida.


In a further sign that Japan's exports are holding up well, the
current account surplus grew unexpectedly by 4.9 percent in
February to 2.418 trillion yen (20.3 billion dollars), the second
highest level on record.


The trade account alone registered a surplus of 1.119 trillion
yen, up 3.6 percent from a year earlier, as exports climbed 9.0
percent while imports rose 10.3 percent, the finance ministry
reported.

