

Democratic Republic of Congo opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba,
wanted for high treason, flew Wednesday to Portugal after
receiving permission to seek medical treatment abroad.


The former rebel leader and vice president boarded a Boeing 727
bound for Lisbon with his wife and five children which left at
2:00am (0100 GMT), airport officials said.


Bemba, 44, who lost in presidential elections to incumbent Joseph
Kabila last December, had been holed up at the South African
embassy in Kinshasa since violent clashes between his supporters
and government troops on March 22-23.


The clashes, which left more than 200 people dead according to
diplomats, were sparked by plans to remove many of Bemba's guards
and integrate them into the army.


The government later issued an arrest warrant against the
opposition leader on charges of treason and maintaining a
militia.


In theory, Bemba enjoys parliamentary immunity because of his
seat in the senate. That immunity can only be lifted by
parliament.


Negotiations for Bemba to leave the country have been underway
for a couple of weeks, and the official reason for his departure
has been to seek medical treatment for a leg injury sustained
when he fell downstairs in December.


UN peacekeepers transported Bemba and his family from the South
African embassy to the airport.


It was unclear how long Bemba might remain in Portugal. Earlier
this month, the Portuguese ambassador in Kinshasa, Alfredo Duarte
Costa, had spoken of the trip lasting just "several weeks".


Bemba has a home in Quinta do Lago in southern Portugal.


One diplomat in Kinshasa said Bemba's "medical exile" would pave
the way for a "restructuring" of the political opposition in the
DRC, at a time when the situation in the capital remains
extremely tense.


Bemba's Congolese Liberation Movement (MLC) had issued a
statement last weekend complaining about the continued occupation
of its headquarters by Kabila's troops.


The party also condemned what it called "arbitrary arrests" and
"acts of intimidation" it said were aimed at destroying the
opposition.


It said recent searches of party members' homes had been carried
out without proper warrants.


Last year's presidential elections were the first in the war-
shattered DRC for more than four decades and the first since
independence in 1960 to be considered free and fair.


Bemba was born in 1962 in northwestern Equateur province to an
extremely wealthy family close to then dictator Mobutu Sese Seko.


After studying in Belgium, the former colonial power, he returned
to take over the family business and went on to set up his own
mobile telephone company, two television stations and an airline
to transport goods.


Known on Kinshasa streets as the "Miniature Mobutu", Bemba
abruptly left the capital when the dictator was ousted by
Laurent-Desire Kabila in 1997, and he spent five years as a rebel
leader in the forested north.


At the end of an anti-Kabila war that raged between 1998 and
2003, Bemba was made one of the four vice-presidents in the
regime set up to usher in democracy.

