

Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore, who has masterminded memorable
Caribbean World Cup wins over India and South Africa, is adamant
that there is still plenty of work to do to finetune the Asian
Tigers.


The burly Australian is used to upsetting the world order of
international cricket - in 1996, he coached Sri Lanka to the
World Cup title.


"We can't just sit back and say, 'that's it, we have answered our
critics and that's the end of the story'. Far from it," said
Whatmore.


"We have still got a long way to go yet and the reality is that
Bangladesh are still the number nine side in the world and, as
sometimes happens, we put in a shocking performance and we get
beaten heavily.


"When that happens, it leads to more comments (from the critics).


"We know that within ourselves we have improved and that we are
capable of causing upset wins and we would like that to
continue."


Bangladesh's win over India in the first round helped dump Rahul
Dravid's side out of the tournament while Saturday's 67-run win
over South Africa in Guyana threw the race for the semi-finals
wide open.


If Bangladesh were to beat England here on Wednesday, they would
become outside contenders for a last four place themselves.


"The win against South Africa gave us a lift but we are not
getting carried away," said Whatmore.


"Everyone who saw the game in Guyana knows that conditions there
were very different to the ones we encountered in Antigua (where
Bangladesh lost to Australia and New Zealand)."


Whatmore was referring to the slow Georgetown pitch which was
ideally suited to left-arm spinners Mohammad Rafique, Abdur
Razzak and Saqibul Hasan who took seven wickets between them.


The pitch at the Kensington Oval here is expected to have pace
and bounce.


But England batsman Ian Bell, whose team need to win all of their
three remaining matches to stay in contention for a semi-final
place, said that Bangladesh will not be under-estimated.


"Bangladesh are a fantastic side and we are not treating them as
minnows," said Bell.


"We know they have talented young cricketers and they have proved
that thay can play against some of the best sides in the world."

