

Outrage abounded in the "blogosphere" on Tuesday as a pair of
Internet luminaries lobbied for rules of behavior in the lawless
world of online commentary.


Internet publisher Tim O'Reilly, credited with coining the phrase
"Web 2.0," and Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales triggered torrents
of vitriol by proposing a "Blogging Code of Conduct" to impose
civility on the Internet.


The idea came in the wake of anonymous death threats posted on
the blog of author and speaker Kathy Sierra, O'Reilly's friend.


"A culture is a set of shared agreements that allows us to live
together," O'Reilly wrote in a blog posting calling for a code of
conduct.


"Let's make sure that the culture we create with our blogs is one
that we are proud of."


The release this week of a first draft of rules of behavior for
online commentary is riling bloggers who accuse its authors of
acting like new-age media overlords disregarding precious rights
of free speech.


"It's simply unbelievable what's going on here," a blogger
writing under the name "Marcus" said in a comment forum at
O'Reilly's website.


"So-called 'community standards' are merely the latest example of
the agents of normalcy and entrenchment subconsciously attempting
to organize, dictate, tame and pacify."


The proposed code calls for blog content to be deleted if it is
abusive, threatening, libelous, false or violates promises of
confidentiality or rights of privacy.


"We take responsibility for our own words and for comments we
allow on our blog," the draft code states.


"We won't say anything online that we wouldn't say in person."


One of the half-dozen rules bans anonymous comments and another
calls for ignoring "trolls," posters of nasty remarks.


"We believe that feeding the trolls only encourages them," the
draft code says, going on to quote an adage "Never wrestle with a
pig. You both get dirty, but the pig likes it."


O'Reilly suggests that bloggers adopting a finished version of
the code adorn their websites with an icon of a sheriff's badge
bearing the words "civility enforced."


Bloggers averse to behavior rules can mark their websites with an
icon of a stick of dynamite with a lit fuse and the words
"Anything goes," the proposal offers.


"I like civility but prefer the "anything goes" badge, so how
about "civility enforced with dy-no-mite?'," blogger Joe Hunkins
said in a message to O'Reilly.


"Censorship is a slippery slope when you are dealing with bright
people who want to take legitimate but mean-spirited shots at
others. I hope these efforts, which are needed, do not dumb down
the debates."


Bloggers complained that barring anonymity would gag online
comments from countries with governments intolerant of free
speech.


"In the authoritarian and cruel regimes, if one wants to get
himself hanged, only then he would in person criticize the
regime," a blogger named "Pakistan Spectator" said on the
O'Reilly comment board.


"Blogging is the great and unique way of protest for the
oppressed people against such regimes."


Bloggers are always free to remove what they see as inappropriate
contributions to forums on their websites, said Technorati
founder David Sifry. Technorati specializes in tracking and
indexing blogs.


People interested in spewing caustic comments can feature them on
their own websites and then leave links on those of other
bloggers, Sifry said.


"One of the core principles that the Internet is built on is the
principle of free speech," Sifry told AFP. "If you really are a
jerk, I don't have to read what you say."


Ethical issues in the "blogosphere" mirror those raised by the
relentless trend of users providing raw content to websites
ranging from video-sharing superstar YouTube to news gathering
organization NowPublic.


"I'm not sure a code of conduct is the answer," NowPublic co-
founder Mike Tippett told AFP. "It makes about as much sense as
me wearing a badge to have a conversation. It won't make a
difference."


People don't need to sign pacts of civility to use telephones or
send letters, Tippett noted.


"I think the wisdom of the crowds, societal mores, and the
expectations of civility will generally solve the problem,"
Tippett said. "The Internet is just an extension of our everyday
lives."


"Presumably, we are all bound by the social norms of our
communities. Violate them and you are locked up."

