

French Socialist candidate Segolene Royal on Wednesday described
as "very dangerous" remarks by presidential frontrunner Nicolas
Sarkozy suggesting that paedophilia was determined by genes.


Royal said the comments showed the "brutality" of the rightwing
candidate who is leading in public opinion polls ahead of the
April 22 first round of voting.


"I find them very dangerous," Royal said in a television
interview when asked about Sarkozy's remarks published in
Philosophie magazine.


"Once again, they show the brutality of Nicolas Sarkozy's way of
thinking and acting," said Royal, 53, in an interview to France 2
television.


Sarkozy was quoted as saying in the interview that he was
"inclined to think that people are born paedophiles" and
suggested that genetics could also explain suicide among
teenagers who "are fragile and have a pre-existing sadness."


Royal lashed out at the remarks, saying "this is a very alarming
view of humanity and contrary to mine."


Such genetic determinism would suggest that "the upbringing by
family, schools and society doesn't serve a purpose."


Sarkozy, the 52-year-old candidate of the governing party, has
defended himself in the controversy, saying that he is being
unfairly attacked for raising questions about the link between
behaviour and genes.


"Who can tell me it is normal to want to rape a three-year-old
child?" he said late Tuesday during a campaign speech in the
central city of Tours.


"At least let us talk about it. Let us not close the door to
discussion," he said.


His remarks were also met with disapproval from Archbishop of
Paris Andre Vingt- Trois who said Sarkozy seemed to discount the
notion of free will.


"What seems most serious to me is the idea that we cannot change
the course of existence," he said.


Sarkozy and Royal are leading in a field of 12 candidates for the
first round of voting, according to the polls.


A runoff vote is scheduled for May 6 as none of the contenders
are expected to win a majority of vote in the first round of the
election.

