

Australian Open champion Serena Williams bowed out of the WTA
claycourt tournament here Tuesday, retiring from her second-round
match against Taiwan's Chan Yung-Jan.


Williams trailed 3-5 when she called it a day, having suffered a
right groin strain earlier.


Williams said she actually first hurt herself in practice on
Monday.


"I've been playing a lot on the clay ... I was just sliding a lot
and I think I just slid too far," said Serena, who played with
her right thigh strapped.


Williams had taken last week off after posting a hard-fought
victory over Belgian Justine Henin in the final of the
prestigious hardcourt tournament at Miami - adding that title to
the Australian Open crown she captured in January in her eighth
Grand Slam triumph.


The departure of the third seed put paid to hopes of a third-
round meeting with her sister, Venus, who had done her part
earlier with a 6-2, 6-2 first-round thumping of Australian
Samanatha Stosur.


"It was a good match to start out with," Venus said. "She hits
with a lot of spin, on serve and off the groundstrokes, so I feel
like I played pretty good and the score line I guess shows that."


The 1.39 million-dollar tournament also lost top seeded Czech
Nicole Vaidisova on Tuesday as Michaella Krajicek rallied to beat
her 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the second round.


In the only other second-round match of the day, China's eighth
seed Li Na defeated Australian Nicole Pratt 6-1, 6-4


Venus Williams, a five-time Grand Slam champion, is unseeded. She
won a tournament in Memphis in February, but fell in the quarter-
finals last week at Amelia Island, Florida.


The 2004 champion here, she will face Russian Vasilisa Bardina in
the second round.


"I feel like I'm definitely playing well in practice, and it's
just important to execute in the match," she said.


France's Tatiana Golovin, who captured her first career title
with a victory in the Amelia Island final on Sunday, defeated
Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia to reach the second round.


"It hasn't sunk in yet because we left right after the tournament
and got here and yesterday I had to rest to get ready to play
today, so it's going by really fast," Golovin said.


"It'll be a matter of being able to hold up physically because
this morning I woke up and it's so much work to kind of keep on
moving and kind of get going," she added.

