

Sudan's only objection to the second phase of a UN peackeeping
plan for the troubled region of Darfur concerns the use of
helicopter gunships, Foreign Minister Lam Akol said late Tuesday.


"There had been differences on the second phase... which were
ironed out during the Addis Ababa meeting," he said, referring to
a UN plan aimed at reinforcing the embattled African Union
peacekeeping force in Darfur.


"This means we have accepted this phase, with the exception of
one point concerning assault helicopters," he added.


At a meeting of UN, AU and Sudanese officials in the Ethiopian
capital on Monday, Khartoum gave the green light to
implementation of the second phase of a three-stage plan floated
last year by former UN chief Kofi Annan.


AU peace and security commissioner Said Djinnit had said the
Sudanese representatives had agreed on all but "one outstanding
point", without specifying what it was.


The plan's second phase mainly involves UN technical and
logistical support for the African force.


The third and most contentious phase of the plan is supposed to
lead to the deployment of UN peacekeepers to prop up the under-
funded and ill-equipped 7,000-strong AU force, which has so far
failed to quell the bloodshed.


The international community has in recent days intensified its
pressure on Khartoum, which has consistently rejected the
deployment of UN troops in the western region of Darfur.


Sudan's top international ally China -- which is by far the
largest foreign investor in Sudan and has often shielded Khartoum
from UN sanctions -- even joined the chorus of voices urging the
government to accept the plan.


South African President Thabo Mbeki was expected to plead the
same case Wednesday during his meeting with President Omar al-
Beshir, on the second day of his trip to Sudan.


US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte, who will kick off a
week-long tour of Sudan and neighbouring countries on Thursday,
is also expected to deliver a strong message to Khartoum over the
Annan plan.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and more two million displaced in Darfur since the
civil fighting erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the
death toll is much higher.

