

A celebrity photographer was on Tuesday ruled the father of late
Playboy model Anna Nicole Smith's baby daughter, ending a months-
long paternity battle over the child who could inherit a fortune.


Larry Birkhead, 34, emerged triumphantly onto the steps of a
Bahamas courthouse to declare that paternity tests had revealed
he was "99.9999" percent certain to be the biological father of
seven-month old Dannielynn.


"I hate to be the one who told you this -- but I told you so!"
Birkhead told media and cheering onlookers. "My baby's going to
be coming home."


The ruling wiped out rival paternity claims by Smith's long-time
companion, Howard Stern, and actress Zsa Zsa Gabor's husband
Frederic van Anhalt who had filed a separate lawsuit claiming he
had fathered Dannielynn.


Dannielynn may inherit millions if lawyers for Smith's estate are
successful in obtaining a slice of the fortune belonging to her
late ex-husband, billionaire oil tycoon Howard Marshall.


Tuesday's ruling was the latest twist to a tabloid saga that has
gripped America since Smith died from an accidental drug overdose
in a Florida hotel room on February 8.


Birkhead launched his paternity suit almost as soon as Dannielynn
was born in the Bahamas last September.


Michael Baird, the doctor who performed the DNA test, said the
results had shown Birkhead was "99.9999 percent" likely to be the
father.


In a dramatic development, Stern appeared shortly after the
Nassau court hearing and declared he would now seek to ensure
that Birkhead was granted full custody of Dannielynn. The two men
hugged outside court following the ruling.


"I'm obviously very disappointed but my feelings for Dannielynn
have not changed," Stern said. "I'm going to do whatever I can to
make sure that Larry Birkhead gets sole custody ... I'd like
there to be a gradual transition."


Stern used the occasion to criticise his treatment at the hands
of the media during the saga. "It's been very difficult, the way
the media has treated everything," he said. "It's beyond
irresponsible, malicious."


Reports have said Dannielynn's maternal grandmother, Smith's
mother Virgie Arthur will seek custody of the child.


Stern has said Smith had sworn before her death she would never
allow her estranged mother to have a relationship with her
granddaughter.


Asked afterwards whether she would seek custody, Arthur declined
to rule out a further legal action.


"We think it would be in Dannielynn's best interest to know her
mother and know her mother's family to interact with that family,
to know her grandmother," Arthur said.


"All I care about and all I've ever cared about is the safety and
well-being of my little granddaughter Dannielynn. I am happy that
Dannielynn will know who her real father is."


Birkhead, meanwhile, would not comment when asked by reporters
for a likely timeframe of when he was likely to be united with
his daughter, who has been living with Stern since her birth.


"It's all up in the air," he said. "I'm just happy to put this
behind me and start a new life with my daughter."


Asked what's next, he replied: "I'm going to the toy store."


Birkhead had claimed Dannielynn was the offspring of a
relationship he had with Smith in late 2005 and early 2006.


Smith and Stern had fought Birkhead's paternity claims but saw a
series of legal judgements in California and the Bahamas go
against them.


Smith was eventually ordered to submit the child for DNA testing
just days before her death.


But the iconic blonde bombshell's death sparked a whole new round
of wrangling over the paternity of Dannielynn, with an
increasingly oddball cast emerging from the woodwork to claim
fatherhood.


Although van Anhalt and a former bodyguard claimed parentage,
Tuesday's hearing related to paternity testing involving only
Birkhead, Stern and Dannielynn.


Smith's death was eerily similar to that of her son Daniel, 20,
who died in September, just three days after his baby sister was
born, from a lethal cocktail of prescription medications and
methadone, a legal drug that is typically given to ease heroin
addiction.

