

German energy giant E.ON is likely to set its sights on other
takeover targets after conceding defeat in its arduous year-long
battle for the Spanish electricity company Endesa.


The Citigroup bank estimates that EON has 30 billion euros (40
billion dollars) at its disposal in debt and cash to fund
acquisitions.


"E.ON has too much money," the online version of Wirtschaftswoche
magazine said.


Many observers said E.ON was keen to grow bigger before it too
became a potential target in the ongoing consolidation of the
energy sector.


The power that the German gas and electricity producer can wield
from having full coffers and enviably low debt levels is a
double-edged sword because the same qualities make it attractive
to potential bidders.


E.ON thought it had done enough to secure control of Endesa,
Spain's leading electricity supplier, with a 42.3-billion-euro
bid.


But the German group had to concede defeat to rival bidders,
Spanish construction group Acciona and Italian energy giant ENEL.


In return for E.ON's decision to give up its quest, it secured
agreement from Acciona and Enel to sell it 10 billion euros worth
of key assets, including all of Endesa's European assets outside
Spain, Enel's Spanish unit Viesgo and additional Spanish
generation capacity from Endesa.


The compromise would make E.ON the fourth-biggest player in both
the Spanish and Italian markets, and the number three player in
France.


Traders said the face-saving deal made E.ON less vulnerable and
E.ON chief executive Wulf Bernotat appeared unconcerned this week
about the danger of a takeover.


E.ON was a "big player" with turnover last year of 67.8 billion
euros to prove it, Bernotat said on Tuesday, the day after it
waved the white flag in its battle for Endesa.


He said he expected E.ON to play an "active role" in the
consolidation of the energy sector and made it clear that he was
dissatisfied with the group's current position in a fast-changing
market.


"We are going to have more opportunities to expand in the future
in other markets, like in Russia," he told the E.ON board, eyeing
the planned privatisation of the Russian electricity sector.


E.ON is also said to have designs on the French market, where it
will become number three by acquiring Endesa France as part of
the compromise deal.


The Suez industrial and services group is viewed as a potential
takeover target and the end of E.ON's marathon bid for Endesa
caused Suez shares to rise on the Paris market, where some
investors see the possibility of a Franco-German tie-up through
E.ON and Veolia to compete with Suez.


E.ON has also been linked with British group Scottish and
Southern Energy and Iberdrola and Gas Natural in Spain, where the
German group is aiming to climb to number three.


Thomas Deser, a fund manager for Union Investment, said the
timing appeared ideal for E.ON to go shopping.


"Enel has its hands full with Endesa, EDF is neutralised because
of the presidential elections in France and its German competitor
RWE is occupied with a change in management," Deser told the
Financial Times Deutschland daily on Wednesday.


Citigroup believes however that E.ON will take its time before
attempting fresh takeovers and will instead reward its
shareholders in the near future.

