

South Africa's crushing defeat against Bangladesh in the World
Cup was greeted with derision back home Sunday, with former
players slamming the team's complacency and one-dimensional pace
attack.


"Proteas humiliated" read the headline in the Sunday Times which
said the hopes of glory for the team ranked number one in the
world in one-day cricket had "suffered a severe setback" as a
result of their "dismal performance".


"The defeat plunged South Africa from being among the favourites
to reach the semi-finals to possibly needing to win all three of
their remaining matches against the West Indies, England and New
Zealand," the paper added.


Rank outsiders Bangladesh cruised to a 67-run victory over the
South Africans in Guyana on Saturday, their first ever victory
over the Proteas.


Former South African captain Kepler Wessels said Greame Smith's
team had been guilty of underestimating a Bangladesh side which
has already accounted for India in the first round of the
tournament in the Caribbean.


"We probably turned up and thought it was a walk in the park,
something we could take for granted," he said on the Supersport
cable network.


Much of the damage was caused by a trio of left-arm Bangladeshi
spinners, while South Africa went into the match without any
recognised slow bowler.


Commentators have long warned South Africa's over reliance on
pace could come back to haunt them in the tournament.


Former chairman of selectors Omar Henry said the selection of the
team had not taken the pitch conditions into account.


"We left the spinner out but where are we? Sometimes we have to
think on our feet," said Henry who was himself a left-arm
spinner.


"We have gone in with a very one-dimensional approach," agreed
Wessels.


"We do not have the bowling options. We were exposed, badly
exposed."


While South Africa were one of the pre-tournament favourites, the
defeat has again raised questions about the mental toughness of a
team that earned itself a reputation for "choking" after early
exits at previous tournaments.


Legendary batsman Barry Richards, commentating from the West
Indies, said he had heard of stories of dressing-room unrest with
players frustrated at being holed up in rainy Guyana for the last
fortnight.


Star batsman Jacques Kallis has in particularly shown signs of
tetchiness after coming in for criticism over his slow scoring
rate in a previous match against Australia.


Seemingly stung by the criticism, Kallis played an
uncharacteristically belligerent innings on Saturday but was
caught for 32 when trying to hit Syed Rasel over the top.


As the top order was gradually skittled out, South Africa
appeared to give up their run chase and seemed to be just trying
to bat out their innings as Herschelle Gibbs made an unbeaten 56.


"They gave up. It was as if Gibbs was having a glorified net,"
said Henry. "It was a pain to watch."

