

Blockbuster fundraising and "rock-star" candidates are turning
the 2008 White House race into a multi-million dollar popularity
contest, but in one place at least, old fashioned, door-to-door
politics is clinging on.


Sparsely populated Iowa, icebound in winter, and swathed by
golden cornfields in summer, is vowing not to relinquish its
disproportionate power in the selection of presidential nominees.


Parables about future presidents touring cafes or sitting on
porches in the midwestern state, telling voters how they will
change the world, are part of the lore of American politics.


The 2008 race already has its own stories: Hillary Clinton has
called a potential supporter in a labor ward, and Republican
Rudolph Giuliani has left New York's concrete jungle to pace
chilly Iowa streets in search of votes.


Next January, Iowa again gets first chance to chose its
favorites, when Democrats and Republican activists will show up
in living rooms, gymnasiums and diners to cast the first state
votes for presidential nominees.


Last time around, Iowa played a decisive role: rejecting
Democratic front-runner Howard Dean, and anointing Senator John
Kerry, the eventual nominee.


But huge crowds whipped up by celebrity candidates like Barack
Obama and Clinton this year and the Internet's growing power in
politics have some Iowans worried the unique caucus flavor is at
risk.


Veteran Iowa political reporter David Yepsen declared in
February, after Obama arrived with busloads of reporters and drew
huge crowds, that "perhaps it's time to write the obit of the
living room."


"Rock-star candidates need room for their fans and their
gawkers," he wrote in the Des Moines Register.


But a backlash may be stirring, as big money candidates blitz the
state.


"Right now, they can hold these big town hall meetings," said
Democratic caucus veteran Monica McCarthy.


"But when it comes down to it they are going to have to go town
to town, they have to get on those buses and come get those
votes."


Caucus goers see their role with almost religious intensity.


"It has become a cliche, but it is not at all unusual for a
person to say 'I need to talk to a candidate several times before
I make up my mind,'" said Peggy Hubert, a veteran activist.


Republican Sue Clark spent one evening last week taking
Giuliani's measure.


"We take a long time to make up our mind ... we are proud of
that," she said, as she laid plans to see former Massachusetts
governor Mitt Romney the next night.


Iowa State University professor Steffen Schmidt has seen Iowa
politics change over 30 years.


He remembers one long-ago day sitting at a farm and watching a
couple of cyclists approach up a sun-soaked driveway.


"It was Jimmy Carter ... and he said 'Hi, I'm running for
president, how y'all doing?'"


Carter, a political unknown outside Georgia, famously went door
to door in Iowa and used a strong caucus showing to vault to the
Democratic nomination and the White House.


Today's hopefuls are trying to show they have the common touch.


Clinton called Iowa state legislator Janet Petersen in the labor
ward, just two hours before she gave birth to son Buck.


"I was like, who was calling me," Petersen said and mouthed to
her husband "It's Hillary," the Register reported.


Giuliani meanwhile says his days as New York mayor equipped him
perfectly for Iowa.


"I'm going to run in Iowa the way I ran in New York City," he
told supporters last week.


"I walked the streets, I did 93 town hall meetings, I had people
come up to me and say, 'Mayor, you are doing a great job,' or
'Mayor, you stink.'"


Obama, Clinton and other big time candidates have scheduled some
small invitation-only events in deference to Iowa tradition.


For long-shots like Democratic Senator Joseph Biden, or
Republican hopeful Tommy Thompson, Iowa represents their one and
only chance to break through.


Even a major player like former senator John Edwards is betting
huge chips on the state, where he currently leads polls, hoping
to break up a two-way duel between Clinton and Obama.


"Every time I think that America won't get the president that it
deserves, I remember Iowa comes first," Edwards' cancer-stricken
wife Elizabeth said in a Des Moines rally last week.


Some critics say Iowa is so demographically unrepresentative of
the rest of America, it does not deserve its key role. A clutch
of states like California and New York are moving up their
primary elections, in a bid to have a say in the process.


But no one knows yet whether that will dilute Iowa's importance,
or make it even more important for a candidate to get a strong
start.

