

Arsene Wenger has warned Arsenal's players they must regroup and
focus on reaching the Champions League after they slumped to a
third successive defeat.


Wenger's side travel to Newcastle on Monday knowing they are in
danger of blowing the fourth-place Premiership finish that brings
with it a place in the Champions League qualifying rounds.


The Gunners suffered their first ever defeat at the Emirates
Stadium when Bobby Zamora's strike clinched a 1-0 win for
resurgent West Ham on Saturday.


That setback followed losses against Everton and Liverpool and
leaves Arsenal just two points ahead of fifth-placed Bolton.


Wenger is determined to get Arsenal back on track, but he knows
his team can't afford any more slip-ups.


"For me it (fourth place) was in danger before this game. It is
important to keep the focus," he said.


"I think we will make it, but we have not got to waste any points
now.


"We should have scored 10 but we lost and it's hard to find a
logical explanation for the defeat. But that is the disease we
have shown all season and it's linked with confidence.


"I can't remember a game where we have dominated so much. It's
always tempting to blame the players in these situations but they
gave everything so I can't criticise them.


"Missing out on the top four is a worry for me but it concerned
me before the match as well. I still think we will make it but we
must not waste any more points and Newcastle is now a very
important game for us."


Glenn Roeder admitted Newcastle's battling spirit helped them
recover from a poor sequence of results that had shaken
confidence on Tyneside.


Roeder's side beat Sheffield United 2-1 on Saturday thanks to
goals from Obafemi Martins and Steven Taylor, whose winner with
10 minutes to go ended a run of three consecutive defeats.


"We had a couple of players meetings this week where I just had
to remind them about a few things," Roeder said.


"I just think some of them had lost a bit of confidence. It
doesn't matter whether you are an England player or play in the
second division, we are all human beings and I think a little bit
of self-doubt had crept in."


Roeder believes the win dispelled any lingering relegation
worries. He added: "I believe it was only inside our dressing
room that we believed we could come here and win.


"People have looked at us and thought, at times away from home,
we are not hard enough.


"That gave them the motivation to come out and give a fighting
performance."

