

The US-South Korea free trade deal could encourage further
liberalisation and create an environment conducive to a proposed
trans-Pacific free trade area linking Asia and the Americas,
officials and analysts say.


While the US-initiated Free Trade Agreement of the Asia Pacific
(FTAAP) received only lukewarm response during an Asia Pacific
summit in Hanoi last year, US officials won agreement to consider
it as a long-term prospect.


Washington has said the conclusion of a free trade agreement
(FTA) with South Korea, the biggest since the North American Free
Trade Area, is a step in that direction.


"The US-South Korea FTA is another demonstration of our strong
commitment to work to enhance economic ties in the Asia Pacific
region," said Sean Spicer, Assistant US Trade Representative for
public affairs.


"The high quality FTA with Korea and our other FTAs either
concluded or under discussion with Asia Pacific countries provide
an excellent example for FTAAP, as well as helping to create an
environment of competitive economic liberalization that makes an
FTAAP more possible," he told AFP.


The FTAAP, which would cover economies accounting for 60 percent
of global economic output and half of world trade, has been
raised as a possible 'Plan B' should faltering World Trade
Organisation (WTO) talks collapse entirely.


Stretching from China to Chile, the FTAAP aims to harmonise a
whole series of regional and sub-regional FTAs.


However, a business-backed study last year concluded that the
proposed cross- Pacific free trade zone was not politically
feasible in the near term.


Leaders of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum are
expected to hear a report from their officials on the FTAAP idea
at their annual summit in Australia in September.


Julius Cesar Parrenas, senior advisor at the Taiwan Institute of
Economic Research, said the US-South Korea deal would give
impetus to the FTAAP, which would cover all 21 APEC economies.


"Other East Asian economies will likely feel pressure to strike
their own free trade deals with the US, either bilaterally or
through FTAAP, as the US-South Korea FTA will give Korean exports
an edge," Parrenas told AFP.


"To the extent that the US-South Korea FTA raises the prospects
of more bilateral FTAs among Asia-Pacific countries, the argument
for an FTAAP as an alternative to the growing 'spaghetti bowl' of
bilateral FTAs becomes more convincing."


Noting that the deal with South Korea is Washington's first with
an East Asian economy with a significant agriculture sector,
Parrenas said it "provides a model that may help facilitate
negotiations between the US and other East Asian economies within
the framework of FTAAP."


A spokesperson for Singapore's trade ministry also welcomed the
US-South Korea deal, telling AFP: "We we see it as having a
positive impact on APEC's vision of open regionalism and momentum
towards greater regional economic integration."


The accord "reflects the desire of businesses for greater trade
and investment liberalisation (and) ... complements initiatives
such as the FTAAP which is also a desire of businesses," the
official said.


Charles Morrison, president of the Hawaii-based think tank East
West Center, stressed however that the FTAAP is a long-range
goal.


"The Korea-US FTA probably will give a boost to other FTA
proposals as it gives the two countries an edge over competitors
... However, the FTAAP is generally regarded as a long-range
vision," he told AFP.


Analysts said Asia is also watching whether Congress will renew
the US president's fast-track trade negotiating powers, or Trade
Promotion Authority (TPA), which expires on July 1.


Absence of the TPA will clip Washington's ability to negotiate
more FTAs.


If the authority is renewed, Japan is likely to be interested in
an FTA with the United States, Morrison said.


China might be "a long way off" from being a free-trade partner
for Washington as Beijing is likely to have difficulty meeting US
labour and environmental expectations, he added.


"But certainly Japan and China will also have an interest in FTAs
with Korea so the US-Korea agreement could be an impetus to
further FTAs in Northeast Asia," Morrison said.


Spicer said the United States would welcome FTAs among its Asian
trading partners "so long as they are consistent with the WTO and
do not exclude the United States."

