

For years, the Bourda Oval stood firm against the march of time
and torrential rain, but the World Cup has signalled the end for
one of the oldest cricket grounds in the Caribbean.


With the modern Guyana National Stadium at Providence, built by
the Indian government at a cost of 25 million dollars, taking
over from Bourda, the ramshackle, historic ground is now
relegated to hosting regional matches only.


But Bourda's place in West Indies cricket history is assured.


It was here that the West Indies achieved their first Test win -
a 289-run victory over England in 1930 - two years after they had
gained Test match status.


Since then, legends like Rohan Kanhai, Basil Butcher, Joe
Solomon, Lance Gibbs, Clive Lloyd, Roy Fredricks, Alvin
Kallicharan, Colin Croft, Shivnarine Chaderpaul and Ramnaresh
Sarwan have cut their teeth at the famous venue.


The Bourda, built in 1884, is part of the fabric of Georgetown.


For individuals, like Neil Singh who is the president of the
Georgetown Cricket Club which owns the stadium, the old venue is
like a second home.


"New things come in place of the old. People come and go, but the
memory remains. And so will Bourda," Singh said of the ground
which is below sea level, was often flooded and was the first
cricket venue on the South America mainland.


"It was hard to cope with Bourda not staging World Cup matches.
We had plans in place, but the government had soft loans
available for a new facility and life moves on," said Singh,
whose club celebrates its 150th anniversary in 2008.


Cricket was a common interest for people here once slavery was
abolished in 1833 and the Bourda was the venue where players came
to show their skills.


Situated in Georgetown, the stadium is surrounded by a moat. When
the stands are full, 25,000 people watch the action unfold.


It has a wooden pavilion, and a stand at fine leg just adjacent
to the bar.


"The Bourda has no equal," said Jailal Ramnath, who has been
working at the bar since 1988.


"How can Lord's be replaced in England? The Bourda is to West
Indies cricket what Lord's is to England."


Apart from some extraordinary cricketing feats, the Bourda has
also seen mini- riots.


During a 'Super Test' in 1979, organised by the late Australian
TV tycoon Kerry Packer, the pavilion was ransacked and players
had to hide in the dressing-rooms after an umpire controversially
gave a West Indies batsman out.


In 1978, hometown star Lloyd resigned in anger after opener
Desmond Haynes was dropped from a Test against Australia.


"It (Bourda) was the economic hub of Georgetown," said Roy
Rampersaud, who has watched cricket here for nearly three
decades.


"You could come and see the early part of the match, go to the
shops and then come back because it is within reach. The new
stadium is far off. The Bourda was lucky for West Indies."


Of the 30 Tests played at the Bourda, the West Indies drew 17,
won seven and lost just six.


The ground, which hosted its 11th and last one-day international
in May, also saw the hosts win four one-dayers and lose five. The
remaining two ended in ties.


Guyana Cricket Association president Chetran Singh believes the
new stadium will open new avenues for the sport in the region.


"For international cricket, this is the end of the Bourda. That
chapter is closed. The problem of poor drainage was the key and
we had to have a new facility to move on," said Chetran.

