

A year after it was founded, Vietnam's Bloc 8406 pro-democracy
movement is under attack from a communist government unwilling to
tolerate political dissent, say analysts and human rights groups.


While Vietnam is winning plaudits for its booming economy, red-
hot stock market and global integration, a series of arrests and
the jailing of an activist Catholic priest have been condemned as
a return to darker days.


The crackdown against the underground movement, with more trials
expected soon, has soured otherwise blossoming relations with the
United States.


The US State Department said it was "deeply troubled" by the
jailing of Father Nguyen Van Ly and "an increase of harassment,
detention and arrest of individuals peacefully exercising the
legitimate right to peaceful speech."


On the eve of the movement's first anniversary, Human Rights
Watch (HRW) said Vietnam is cracking down on Bloc 8406 organisers
and their families.


"Targeting the most vocal, visible activists sends a message to
the others: don't speak out or you'll suffer the same fate," HRW
said.


Bloc 8406 takes its name from the date it was founded, the 8th of
April 2006.


Largely ignored by the outside world, 118 dissidents signed an
online manifesto for a non-violent struggle and declared: "The
one-party political regime must be once and for all buried in the
dustbin of history."


They have called for a boycott of National Assembly elections
next month.


The movement -- a small minority unknown to many of Vietnam's 84
million people -- includes academics, clergy, writers, medical
doctors, engineers, nurses, businessmen, army veterans and
ordinary citizens.


Working under the threat of arrest, they communicated online with
each other and exile groups and gathered signatures, now claiming
2,000 members.


Vietnam's leaders publicly ignored them while negotiating entry
into the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and readied to host an
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit, seen as
Vietnam's debut as a new key Asian player.


Days before US President George W. Bush arrived for the November
APEC summit, Washington took Vietnam off a religious freedom
watch-list, and weeks later it granted it full trading rights,
paving the way for WTO entry.


Human rights groups protested, pointing at the ongoing repression
of some Buddhist and Christian groups.


When the APEC leaders met and a parallel business summit
celebrated the birth of a new Asian Tiger, police kept Hanoi
dissidents under tight lockdown.


In February, on the eve of the Tet Lunar New Year, police
arrested three of Vietnam's most prominent dissidents -- Ly as
well as Hanoi lawyers Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan, who
are to face trial soon.


HRW said Vietnam, "emboldened by international recognition," was
launching "one of the worst crackdowns on peaceful dissidents in
20 years."


When Ly was on trial, where he was sentenced to eight years in
jail, Vietnam took the unusual step of allowing foreign diplomats
and media to watch.


But it earned condemnation for the swift trial, in which a guard
muzzled Ly with his hand.


The open trial, meant to signal transparency, instead showed a
"throw-back to Vietnam's communist past," said Carl Thayer of the
Australian Defence Force Academy.


As pressure has mounted in the US Congress for a tougher line
against Hanoi, US ambassador Michael Marine last Thursday called
on Vietnam to free Ly and five other dissidents and ultimately
end one-party rule.


Tension rose when police barred the wives of two key dissidents
from visiting Marine's residence in ugly scenes that the diplomat
said were "at risk of spiralling out of control."


Vietnam says it has no political prisoners and only jails
criminals.


Domestically, said Thayer, it has succeeded by leaving Bloc 8406
"in disarray and on the defensive" ahead of the May elections.


"The regime had to move to intimidate the rank and file Bloc 8406
supporters," he said. "They have had fair sailing up to now, but
now the regime has moved to take the winds out of their sails."

