

Democrats appear to be gaining the upper hand in the all-
important dash for cash ahead of the 2008 US presidential
elections, unveiling war chests already well- stuffed with wads
of money.


Together the top six hopefuls chasing the Democratic Party
nomination have raised some 65 million dollars in the first
quarter of the year, compared with 50.5 million in the rival
Republican ranks.


The figures would seem to be overturning tradition, which holds
that the Republicans are wealthier, better organized and normally
rake in larger donations.


In fact, the disparities are not as wide as they might seem at
first glance.


During the 2004 campaign, George W. Bush, who went on to win a
second term in office, pulled in some 270 million dollars, while
his Democrat opponent John Kerry fell just slightly short at 235
million.


"The perception that Republicans are so much more skilled at
fundraising is inaccurate," said political expert Costas
Panagopoulos from Fordham University.


During the last campaign, Democrat Howard Dean launched into the
primaries bolstered by a record amount of funds at his disposal,
most of which he had collected via the Internet.


Since then, others have been quick to copy his methods, with
potential candidates honing their Web skills either to push their
message or to appeal for funds.


Public opposition to the Bush administration and to the war in
Iraq is also helping to pump cash into Democrat campaigns.


"The Democrats are capitalizing on their electoral victories in
2006 as well as an unpopular Republican president fighting an
unpopular war," said Panagopopulos.


"The combination of these forces are creating fertile ground for
the Democrats to raise substantial amounts of money."


The differences between the two camps also reflects the current
opinion polls, with Bush's ratings having sunk to their lowest
levels ever.


Only a third of all Americans approve of his performance in
office, and fewer still believe the war in Iraq can be won.


It is therefore hardly surprising that fewer Americans want to
see a Republican candidate returned to the White House, with none
of the leading Republican hopefuls having denounced the war.


Instead hundreds of thousands are opening their checkbooks for
the Democrats, with frontrunner Hillary Clinton saying she won
donations from 50,000 supporters, second-place Barack Obama
claiming 100,000 individual donations and John Edwards 40,000.


For his part, Republican hopeful John McCain said he had amassed
funds from 60,000 people.


"It's a high stakes, high stimulus election ... there's
excitement, enthusiasm," said Panagopoulos.


But some observers are quietly worried about the record, almost
obscene funds, squirreled away in just three months.


On Thursday the influential New York Times denounced "the
tastelessness of the race," while the Washington Post said the
unparalleled system was "unpleasant for candidates and unhealthy
for democracy."


Some insiders have gone so far as to allege that the Edwards
campaign has kept all the expressions of sympathy sent to his
wife, Elizabeth, over the return of her cancer, so he can use the
addresses at a later date.


Candidates have been quick to point out however that they are not
being bought up by big businesses with special interests to
defend.


Edwards' campaign said 80 percent of his supporters had made sent
in less than 100 dollars, while Obama said some of his donations
were as little as five dollars.

