

The United States won praise from rights groups this week for
arresting three Latin American former military officers who had
fled there while wanted in their countries for human rights
atrocities.


"The US immigration system has been porous as far as those type
of criminals are concerned," Jose Miguel Vivanco, director for
the Americas at Human Rights Watch, told AFP.


"Not only have they succeeded in escaping justice in their own
countries, but they have managed to live perfectly normal lives
here without any restrictions."


US immigration authorities announced on April 3 that they had
arrested Peruvian nationals Telmo Hurtado and Juan Rivera Rondon,
who are wanted in their own country on charges of taking part in
a 1985 massacre.


They also said they had seized a third suspect, Ernesto Guillermo
Barreiro, accused of torturing prisoners during the military
dictatorship in his native Argentina.


Until 1994, the United States had no law allowing the immigration
service to go after those responsible for human rights violations
committed overseas.


New laws adopted in the wake of the September 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks on the United States have since given authorities extra
powers to investigate, track down and expel such suspects, or
deny them access to the country.


In 2003, the government created a special unit to investigate
these cases. The number it handles has soared from 200 at the
time of the unit's formation to more than 800 now, according to
the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) service of the
Department of Homeland Security.


The probes involve citizens of 85 countries.


All three suspects will now face deportation. But the Argentine
and one of the Peruvians may first have to serve sentences in the
United States if they are found guilty of breaking US immigration
laws, said Michael Keegan, an ICE spokesman in Washington.


Human rights groups have long insisted that those suspected of
taking part in repression be prosecuted in the United States --
not for immigration violations, but under the 1994 law that
allows for punishment of the suspects while they still remain in
the country.


But they also welcomed the steps taken by the immigration
authorities.


"We don't disagree with the strategy of deporting people if we
think they're going to go back somewhere" and face justice, said
Pamela Merchant, director of the San Francisco-based Center for
Justice and Accountability.


"There's a pretty significant amount of human rights abusers in
this country," Merchant said. "There's been a lot of pressure
from the human rights community for years to do something."


The 1994 law was applied for the first time in 2006 to Chuckie
Taylor -- son of former Liberian president Charles Taylor -- who
has now been charged in the US with committing torture during his
country's civil war.


Merchant also cited the case of Marko Boskic, a Bosnian Serb
accused of involvement in the 1995 Srebrenica massacre during
Bosnia's civil war, who was sentenced last year in Boston to five
years in jail for immigration fraud.


"There was a fair amount of criticism of the government at that
point by the human rights community," Merchant said, because
federal prosecutors decided not to charge Boskic with war crimes.


"It would be ideal if we could detain these people on charges
that they are facing," said Vivanco. "But here we are entering
complex ground because of the existing evidence and the time when
these crimes were committed."


"We hope that these arrests will help dispel the view that
without a doubt exists among these criminals that they can find
refuge in the United States." rnr-mr/du/mk/rlp

