

At 80 years old and with half-a-century's worth of groundbreaking
films behind him, it is small wonder that Albert Maysles is known
as the dean of documentaries.


Michael Moore was barely a year old in 1955 when Maysles was
packing up a camera and venturing behind the Iron Curtain to
capture a glimpse of life inside the Soviet Union's psychiatric
hospitals.


The result of that trip, "Pyschiatry in Russia", signaled the
beginning of a career that saw Maysles and his late brother David
emerge as two of the most important figures in 20th Century
American film.


The Maysles were in the vanguard of the 'cinema verite' or direct
documentary movement, among the first film-makers to capture
their subjects without reference to scripts, sets, interviews or
narration.


Maysles' most famous film is the 1970 Rolling Stones documentary
"Gimme Shelter", which captured the tragic events surrounding the
band's 1969 concert at Altamont Speedway, when four fans died
amid chaotic organization.


Maysles, speaking ahead of an Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences event that that will showcase his work in Hollywood on
Thursday, said he was not surprised by the recent resurgence in
documentaries.


But he is disturbed by a number of films which he thinks present
a slanted view to suit the editorial line of the director.


"I think it's a pity that people aren't making documentaries with
higher expectations to tell the truth, to work in a more
observational fashion rather than controlling things," Maysles
told AFP in an interview.


"Alfred Hitchcock put it beautifully. He said 'In a feature film
the director is god. In a non-fiction feature film, god is the
director.'


Maysles, who has been critical of "Fahrenheit 9/11" director
Moore in the past, says he is concerned at the increasing number
of films which blur the line between fact and fiction.


"What I find so odd is that people seem to take pride in that
blur," Maysles said. "That's fine if the film is no longer
identified as a documentary. But if it is then it's just wrong.


"It disturbs me when I hear other directors say things like
'documentaries are a fictional reality.' The one thing a
documentary can do so beautifully is give us knowledge of the
real world.


"And if it's not the truth then it's not real knowledge."


A psychologist by training, Maysles was drawn to film in the
1950s at the height of Cold War paranoia, when nuclear conflict
with the Soviet Union appeared a very real and terrifying
prospect.


Out of a desire to provide Americans with an idea of what life
was like for ordinary Russians, Maysles traveled to the Soviet
Union to chronicle life inside the country's mental hospitals.


"In 1955 when the Soviet Union was in full swing, I felt very sad
that we could easily have gone to war at that point," Maysles
recalled.


"But I felt that it might be harder to start a war if we could
show Americans that Russians were like them. And when you look at
that film you just see ordinary people. So it's no longer easy to
bomb that country."


Similarly, Maysles maintains that a lack of mainstream
information about life inside Iraq prior to the US-led invasion
in 2003 contributed to the countdown to the war.


"It was so easy to bomb the hell out of Iraq because we had no
immediate experience of an Iraqi person," he says.


"And it's going to be a lot easier for Mr Bush to launch a
military operation against Iran if we have no experience of who
they are."


In 2005 Maysles founded the Maysles Institute, a non-profit
organization that aims to provide film training and
apprenticeships to the under-privileged.


Maysles, who is based in New York, remains actively involved in
film-making however and is currently working on a documentary
about people traveling on trains.


"We're pretty much all between stations," he said. "The intention
is to find ordinary human stories about what people are going to
be doing when they arrive at their destination."

