

Sir Alex Ferguson tipped the Premiership title race to be decided
on the final day of the season after seeing Manchester United's
lead clawed back by Chelsea to just three points for the first
time this year.


United's hopes a repeat of their historic 1999 league, FA Cup and
Champions League treble suffered a second set back in the space
of a week as Wednesday's 2-1 defeat against Roma in Italy was
repeated at Portsmouth on Saturday.


The loss, United's third in four seasons at Pompey's rundown
Fratton Park home, leaves Ferguson's side needing to win five of
their last six games to guarantee reclaiming the trophy after a
three-year absence.


Ferguson, whose side travel to Chelsea in their penultimate
match, said: "Losing was disappointing. An away game in the back
of a European tie is never easy, especially having played most of
Wednesday's game with ten-men.


"That coupled with the travelling took its toll on us. Chelsea
will seize on this result but they have not been playing at their
best either. We are still three points clear and have a superior
goal difference and if I'd have been offered that at the start of
the season I would have snapped your hand off.


"We have six important games left, three at home and three away
and they are all cup finals between now and the end of the
season.


"My team have been terrific up to now and we have got the players
to do it. I think it could go to the wire and if we get to the
last day of the season and need to beat West Ham at Old Trafford
I would settle for that.


"We have got the benefit of an FA Cup semi final next weekend so
we do not play again in the league for ten days. That break has
come at the right time."


United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar was at fault for both goals
as Pompey gave their own UEFA Cup hopes a much-needed boost with
only their second win of 2007.


Van der Sar spilled Benjani's long-range shot on the half hour
mark, allowing Matt Taylor to slide in and bury the rebound. The
experienced Dutchman made another uncharacteristic mistake for
Rio Ferdinand's late own goal.


Ferdinand played a routine back pass to break up a Pompey attack
but van der Sar took the strange decision to come towards the
ball and allowed it to trickle past him and into the empty net.


John O'Shea grabbed a stoppage time consolation to stop David
James claiming a new Premiership record 142nd clean sheet after
the Portsmouth goalkeeper had spilled an Ole Gunnar Solskjaer
shot.


Ferguson, whose side host Roma in the second leg of their
European quarter final on Tuesday, added: "Their goalkeeper has
made two or three excellent saves but it happens a lot that
'keepers are in that kind of form against us.


"I cannot fault my players. For the first twenty minutes of the
second half we were fantastic. The first goal was unfortunate
because Edwin made a save and it fell kindly to one of the
players as against Roma.


"These things happen. It has not come at the best of times but we
have been terrific all season and I expect us to recover."


Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp said: "Today was a good day
against a great Manchester United side. They are a fantastic
team, play some great football and have had a great season.


"The championship is still there to be won for them. They have
still got the advantage but Chelsea won't give up and it will be
a great end to the season."

