

Roy Keane toasted Sunderland after seeing his team move into
contention for automatic promotion to the Premiership with a 2-1
win over Wolverhampton at the Stadium of Light.


The Black Cats moved up to second place on Saturday after Daryl
Murphy and Ross Wallace secured their 12th win in 15 games in
front of over 40,000 fans.


"It was a good result for us and a good performance, plus the
weather was nice," Keane said.


"They had a right go at us as you would expect, and we had
injured players coming back in, so that's another massive plus."


It was an especially sweet victory for Irishman Keane as he came
against the team managed by Mick McCarthy, who sent the former
Manchester United man home from the 2002 World Cup after a bitter
argument


Keane downplayed the feud, saying: "I'll have a drink with Mick
in the next 10 minutes, just like I would with any manager, and
we'll move on."


Sunderland's win proved all the more important following
Birmingham's surprise 1-0 loss at home to struggling Burnley.


John Spicer's late goal inflicted defeat on Steve Bruce's men and
sees the Blues dropping into the play-off positions.


Bruce refused to be downbeat however, claiming the promotion race
was still wide open.


He said: "The sign of a good team is how they respond to
something like this. We've had setbacks this season and got over
them. Everyone was saying this game was a home banker but it
doesn't work like that in this division.


"It is one of those awful days you have to recover from. If you
are going to win titles, it's how you bounce back.


"It's wide open with five or six games to play and we are still
in there with a very good chance."


Derby remain one point clear at the top despite only managing a
1-1 draw away to Leicester on Friday.


Preston's dismal run continued at Selhurst Park where two goals
from Shefki Kuqi helped Crystal Palace to a 3-0 win.


It is the third defeat in a row for the team from Deepdale who
are now eight points adrift of an automatic promotion spot.


Wolverhampton's defeat to Sunderland enabled Southampton to
leapfrog them into the play-off positions after the Saints' won
2-0 away at bottom club Luton.


Marek Saganowski followed up his hat-trick last Saturday with his
team's second goal after John Viafara had given George Burley's
men the lead.


At the other end of the table, Leeds moved out of the relegation
zone for the first time since November following a 2-1 win at
home to Plymouth.


United fell behind to a first half strike from Peter Halmosi
before Northern Ireland international David Healy equalised at
the end of the first half.


The Yorkshire club secured a vital win when Lubomir Michalik
headed home against the run of play three minutes from time.


Their position in the bottom three is now occupied by fellow
Yorkshire strugglers Barnsley who were routed 5-1 at Ipswich.


QPR gave themselves breathing space at the bottom with a win at
Iain Dowie's Coventry courtesy of Jimmy Smith's second half
strike.


Elsewhere, Cardiff's poor run continued with a 2-1 defeat at home
to form team Sheffield Wednesday, who keep their own outside
chances of a play-off spot alive.

