

Bad weather forced British yachtsman Tony Bullimore to abandon
the Sunday start date for his solo round-the-world record attempt
but he said he was determined to begin this week.


Bullimore, who gained international fame in 1997 when he survived
five days trapped in the upturned hull of his yacht in the
freezing Southern Ocean, had hoped to leave Tasmania's Bellerive
Yacht Club on Sunday.


The 67-year-old is attempting to sail around the world in 70 days
on his 31-metre catamaran Doha 2006. The previous record, set by
Briton Ellen MacArthur in 2005, is 71 days, 14 hours, 18 minutes
and 33 seconds.


Bullimore, whose team is now looking at a departure date of April
15, said he was determined to leave as soon as possible.


"We can't hang about much longer," he said.


"The only chance I have got of choosing my weather is at the
beginning," he said. "Once I leave here and once I'm 100 miles
out or 50 miles out or 20 miles out, that's it.


"Whatever I get, I get. We are trying to get two or three days of
right weather so it slingshots me down to New Zealand and well on
my way to Cape Horn," he told Australian Associated Press.


Bullimore said he was concerned about the danger of winter
icebergs on the 27,000 mile (43,450 kilometre) journey.


"The ice does worry me, it's bound to," he said.


"It's not as bad as people think. Most of the time you control
what you are doing and you keep your eyes open and you get the
information on ice movements from different weather stations, so
you have got to go for it, that's all there is to it."


Bullimore was rescued by the Australian navy in January 1997 when
they found him clinging to the overturned hull of his yacht the
Exide Challenger.


Fears were again held for Bullimore's safety in November when
there was a communication blackout from Doha 2006 for 11 days as
it sailed on the Indian Ocean from Qatar on its way to Hobart.


Retired navy officer Jane Mackrill, one of the Australian sailors
who winched Bullimore to safety in 1997, was full of praise for
the yachtsman.


"It is absolutely amazing a guy of his age can just get on a
catamaran and sail around the world -- just him and the ocean,"
she said from Hobart where she had expected to see the Briton's
departure.


"He has looked death in the eye.


"Anyone who has experienced what he has and surviving in a
capsized boat for as long as he did is incredible."

