

Jose Mourinho saw Chelsea keep up the pressure on Premiership
leaders Manchester United but could not resist responding to Sir
Alex Ferguson's claim that his side are now controlling the
fixture schedule.


The United manager was angry that Chelsea were allowed to face
Tottenham less than 48 hours after Martin Jol's team had played
out a taxing UEFA Cup quarter- final first leg clash in Spain
against holders Sevilla.


Ferguson's fears that Tottenham would be under-strength were
confirmed when Dimitar Berbatov, Robbie Keane and Didier Zokora
were rested for the game at Stamford Bridge, which Chelsea won
1-0 thanks to Ricardo Carvalho's second half strike.


Mourinho, whose side were fairly comfortable despite the narrow
scoreline, met Ferguson's criticism with a hint of sarcasm.


"At this moment we have done our job. We had a chance to close
the gap by playing before United, but we control the fixtures, of
course. Imagine what it would be like if we did not control the
fixtures," said the Chelsea manager.


"I am not surprised that Alex Ferguson complained about this
game. He is an intelligent man but maybe he thinks everyone else
is not intelligent."


The first half was a dull affair, with Chelsea only once managing
to extend Paul Robinson when the England goalkeeper saved well
from Carvalho.


Apart from that, only a deflected Frank Lampard free-kick gave
the Tottenham defence anything to think about before the
interval.


The early stages of the second half did, however, suggest that
the contest would become interesting. Referee Rob Styles failed
to award a penalty in the 48th minute when John Terry was pushed
by Pascal Chimbonda.


In the 52nd minute Chelsea finally broke the deadlock when
Carvalho took a pass from Jon Obi Mikel, before advancing five
yards and unleashing a low shot from 35-yards which flew past
Robinson and into the bottom left corner.


It was another moment to forget for the England goalkeeper, who
will claim he was left unsighted by his static defence.


"In the first half we were the better side but Tottenham were
better after half- time. We needed Petr Cech to save us. They
have massive players and they are a threat from set-pieces
because they are difficult to control," said Mourinho, whose side
travel to Valencia for the second leg of their Champions League
quarter-final on Tuesday.


"I don't think we have suffered any injuries. I have a hope that
maybe Michael Essien can play on Tuesday and he will travel with
us."


Tottenham pushed for an equaliser in the closing stages, and
wasted a fine chance when Steed Malbranque's overhead kick went
over the bar in stoppage time.


At the other end, Didier Drogba would surely have made it two had
it not been for an excellent recovery and interception by Ricardo
Rocha.


Tottenham assistant manager Chris Hughton said: "An equaliser
would have been nice given all the problems off the pitch in
Seville.


"We utilised the squad with games against Sevilla and Wigan
coming up. We always know it is very difficult for us at Chelsea.


"We would have been delighted with a goalless draw. There was no
doubt that the game in Seville had an affect on the players and
we would have liked an extra day to prepare."


Another bright spot for Chelsea was the return to league action
for Joe Cole. The England midfielder played 14 minutes of his
side's Champions League quarter- final clash against Valencia on
Wednesday, and followed that up with seven minutes against Spurs.

