

In western Ukraine's nationalist heartland, a political crisis is
inspiring Easter prayers with a partisan tinge: to protect
President Viktor Yushchenko in the battle of his career.


"The president is right. I'm praying to God to save Ukraine from
its enemies," Myron Vunichinsky, a ruddy 64-year-old in a grey
coat, said after crossing himself in front of a statue of the
Virgin Mary on a street in Lviv.


The country has been locked in crisis since Yushchenko ordered
parliament to disband on Monday and called early elections, and
pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych rallied tens of
thousands of protestors in defiance.


But this elegant city of 700,000 people near Ukraine's western
border with Poland is a bastion of pro-Western political forces
and a major religious centre, and its residents have been
appealing to a higher authority.


Thousands of people crowded into churches belonging to the six
Christian denominations present in the city over Easter -- their
prayers all the more fervent because of the political crisis
unfolding in this ex-Soviet republic.


"In hard times, we take it in turns to pray here for an hour at a
time day and night," said Maria Yakimets, a 56-year-old
psychologist selling candles at the 18th-century Ukrainian Greek
Catholic cathedral of Saint Yura.


Yakimets said the round-the-clock prayers started immediately
after Yushchenko issued the order to dissolve parliament on
Monday, triggering defiance against his ruling from both the
legislature and government.


The stand-off has stressed deep divisions in Ukraine between the
east, populated mainly by Russian speakers and Orthodox
believers, and the west, where the Ukrainian language and
Ukrainian Greek Catholicism dominate.


Orthodox Christians and Greek Catholics, who acknowledge the
authority of the Roman Catholic pope in Rome but have an Orthodox
ritual, have been involved in long-running disputes over
ownership of churches.


"They shouldn't hold protests during Lent -- it's a sin," said
Mikhail Vorobes, a 57-year-old man queueing outside the Uspensky
cathedral to kiss a copy of the shroud believed to have wrapped
the body of Jesus Christ.


Vorobes was referring to Yanukovych supporters, who continued to
rally in central Kiev over the four days to protest against the
president's order to hold early elections.


The head of the Greek Catholic church, Cardinal Lyubomir Guzar,
and other religious leaders in Ukraine adopted a resolution
supporting Yushchenko in his struggle against Yanukovych.


Pro-Russian lawmakers in the officially dismissed parliament hit
back with a harshly-worded statement that calls on the Catholic
pope as official leader of the Greek Catholics to stop
interfering in Ukraine's politics.


"I wish all the parties would stop just thinking about
themselves," said Father Marek, a Polish priest who has worked in
Lviv for 15 years, speaking in the sacristy of the main Roman
Catholic cathedral before an Easter mass.


"They've forgotten about the state, about the people."


Opinions in Lviv, where religion and nationalism are intricately
bound, were divided on whether or not church authorities should
get involved in the current political struggle.


Many want greater unity in a country that is being split by the
crisis.


Outside the Saint Yura cathedral, in which hundreds of believers
chanted, knelt and prostrated themselves on the ground, stands a
gateway bearing both the Catholic and Orthodox crosses.


"Our prophets said there would be hard times but that then we
would all unite -- all Christians together," Yakimets said there.


"As long as we stop trying to get the better of each other and
put an end to these tensions, we will all unite."

