

For the coal miners of the Donbass region, a stronghold of Prime
Minister Viktor Yanukovych in eastern Ukraine, the power struggle
unfolding in Kiev is a world away.


"All they're doing is dividing up power. The government is
handling politics but they don't worry about the miners," said
Viktor Terekhol, a 47-year-old miner, as he prepared to descend
1,000 metres (3,281 feet) underground.


Many people here voted for Yanukovych -- currently locked in a
standoff with President Viktor Yushchenko -- in 2004 presidential
elections.


Moscow-backed Yanukovych lost those elections against the pro-
Western Yushchenko after what became known as the Orange
Revolution: weeks of mass protests over a fraudulent first round
of voting in which Yanukovych was declared the winner.


Now, the two men are pitted against each other again, with
Yanukovych defying the president's order on Monday to dissolve
parliament and hold early elections.


"We've had enough of voting, we don't need all this. We've just
had elections and having them again is just wrong," said
Alexander Totsky, 48, who has been working in this state-run mine
near Donetsk since 1978.


There are bigger problems to worry about at the Soviet-era
October Mine than politics. Working conditions are poor, the
equipment is ageing and the average monthly salary is around 220
euros (300 dollars).


Many of the wives of the miners in Donetsk, a city of one million
inhabitants some 50 kilometres (31 families) from the Russian
border, have to find jobs in order to feed their families.


"It's difficult to encourage people to do good work for this kind
of pay," said Roman Shepty, chief engineer at the mine, whose
father and grandfather also worked in the mines.


"The coal sector is in major decline because the price of coal is
very low... This is why the miners live so badly," Shepty said.


Long dynasties of miners in this part of Ukraine are coming to an
end as the younger generation turns away.


"A trolleybus driver also earns 300 dollars now, so why would you
want to go 1,000 metres underground?" Shepty said.


An hour after the afternoon shift descends, the lift's steel
cables start whirring again, bearing the morning shift to the
surface after six hours of work.


A nauseating smell and a cloud of coal dust blow out from the
shaft as the men stream from the cage, their blue eyes shining
out from blackened faces under worn orange helmets.


"This country is chaotic, there's no more power -- or rather
there are people in power who can't decide which of them is the
leader. I don't see a solid and stable future for my daughter,"
said one of the men, Alexander.


His colleague Alexander Ginkin, a 52-year-old with a worn face
and a moustache covered in coal dust, said: "Honestly, I've had
enough of these politicians."


At 52, he receives a pension but works on in order to make ends
meet.


There are 1,270 employees at the October Mine, including 890
miners. The mine produces around 650 tonnes of coal per day and
operates around the clock.


But the workers complain that the record production years of
1978-1979 are long past. In the main hall, the image of a Lenin
award given to the most productive miners still decorates a
display of production figures.


Above it hangs a more recent slogan found in few places here:
"The renaissance of Donbass is our common task!"

