

Solomon Islanders prayed Sunday for tsunami victims while voters
in East Timor hoped for a peaceful election day as millions of
Christians in the region celebrated Easter.


The faithful packed churches and cathedrals from the villages of
the Solomons -- reeling from last week's deadly earthquake and
tsunami -- to the steps of the Sydney Opera House to celebrate
the resurrection of Jesus Christ.


Later, thousands of worshippers were expected in Vatican City to
hear Pope Benedict XVI's traditional Easter message delivered
from St Peter's Basilica.


In the Solomon Islands, where at least 39 people have been killed
and some 6,000 left homeless by last Monday's powerful quake and
tsunami, church leaders said Easter should be seen as a time for
renewal.


"Now is not the time to sit down and wait for supplies," reverend
John Pihavaka told the congregation at St Luke's Anglican church
on the outskirts of Gizo, one of the towns worst hit by the
disaster.


"Now is the time for you to make work, to start and rebuild after
the tsunami," he said as parishioners fanned themselves in the
stifling heat.


"Let me tell you that the eyes of the world are on the Solomons,"
he said before church-goers lined up to take communion.


In some villages the faithful were forced to pray in the open
air, as their houses of worship were deemed unsafe due to damage
from the quake.


Meanwhile residents in predominantly Catholic East Timor prayed
for peace on Monday, when they will vote for a new president to
lead the tiny island state -- their first such election since
independence five years ago.


At Dili cathedral hundreds of refugees -- still living in tent
cities since a spate of violence rocked the capital last year --
prayed outside along with worshippers spilling out of the
building.


"With Easter, we have to refuse violence. I ask all the
candidates in the name of society to accept the result of the
election," outgoing President Xanana Gusmao said in a radio
appeal.


Millions of people attended Mass in the Philippines, which has
the largest Roman Catholic community in Asia, while children were
treated to Easter egg hunts in the parks and hotels of Manila.


Church leaders called for free and fair mid-term elections in
May, with priests urging politicians to resist the temptation of
cheating.


In mainly Muslim Bangladesh, some 10,000 Christians prayed in
front of the parliament building in the capital Dhaka amid tight
security, with hundreds of police standing guard to prevent any
violence.


A large crowd of early risers in Australia enjoyed the
breathtaking view of Sydney Harbour at their sunrise Easter
service on the steps of the landmark Opera House.


Dean Phillip Jensen of Sydney's Anglican St Andrew's Cathedral
said crowds at Easter services were 10 to 15 percent larger than
last year.


"This is happening across the board, it's not just here," he
said.


"Christmas and Easter is a time where, I guess, people who want
to regain their cultural moorings will come, rather than every
week."


Further north outside the coastal city of Brisbane, some 40,000
people looking for an upbeat Easter Sunday celebrated at a
worship-themed rock, pop and blues music festival in Toowoomba.


"It is positive music, it is music that encourages people, it is
music which uplifts people," festival spokesman Wes Jay said.

