

Latest polling in the 2008 White House campaign shows Hillary
Clinton leading a three-way race for the Democratic nomination,
while Rudolph Giuliani heads the Republican field, with former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney showing early signs of a
surge.


While opinion surveys are simply long-range indicators nine
months before first nominating contests, they do serve to set
perceptions of the race in the media and among likely voters, and
spotlight trends that can be used by campaign chiefs to sharpen
tactics.


New York Senator Clinton appears to be maintaining the lead in
national polls that she has had for months.


A Time magazine national opinion survey in late March gave her
the support of 31 percent of voters, compared to 24 percent for
rising star Senator Barack Obama and 16 percent for defeated 2004
vice presidential nominee John Edwards.


The latest Fox News poll had her at 36 percent ahead of Obama
with 18 percent support and Edwards back on 13 percent. Rasmussen
last week put the race at 33 percent for Clinton, 26 percent for
Obama and Edwards at 17 percent.


But when the focus turns to the key states of Iowa and New
Hampshire, the race appears much tighter, and Clinton
consequently more threatened.


After months of intense campaigning in Iowa, and several weeks
after revealing that cancer had returned to haunt his wife
Elizabeth, John Edwards led Clinton in a University of Iowa poll
conducted between March 19 and 31, earning the support of 34
percent of likely voters, compared to the former first lady's 29
percent. Obama trailed with 19 percent.


His lead in the state, the first to weigh in on the nominating
process next January, was confirmed by a Strategic Vision poll
last week, which pegged him at 27 percent compared to Obama on 20
percent and Clinton in third on 19 percent.


In the other key early voting state, New Hampshire, Clinton
appears to be holding on to a steady, yet small lead.


A Zogby poll had Clinton at 29 percent last week, with Obama and
Edwards tied at 23 percent. A CNN survey had Clinton on 27
percent, followed by Edwards with 21 percent and Obama with 20
percent support among likely New Hampshire primary voters.


All other Democratic candidates lagged well behind.


On the Republican side, Giuliani is at the head of the national
race, well ahead of former front-runner John McCain and Romney,
according to polls.


The ex-mayor of New York stacked up 34 percent support in a Cook
Report/RT Strategies poll up to April 1. McCain had 17 percent
followed by former senator and television actor Fred Thompson,
who is mulling a White House bid with 10 percent. Romney came in
fourth with six percent, behind former House of Representatives
speaker Newt Gingrich, who is also thinking of running and had
nine percent support.


In Iowa, Giuliani was leading the field in a Strategic Vision
poll, nine months before the caucuses, with 25 percent, ahead of
McCain with 20 percent. Thompson had 11 percent support. Romney
had eight percent and Gingrich had six percent.


An average of several recent Iowa polls on the Republican side by
independent political website Real Clear Politics had the race
led by Giuliani, with 25 percent of the vote, McCain with 22
percent, Romney with 11 percent, Thompson with nine percent and
Gingrich with five percent.


McCain was clinging on to a lead in New Hampshire, at 27 percent,
in an average of polls taken in the state over the last month,
ahead of Giuliani on 24 percent, Romney on 20 percent and
Thompson on 6.3 percent.


But in a poll published last week by Zogby, Romney had rocketed
into a tie to lead New Hampshire with McCain, doubling his
support to 25 percent, followed by Giuliani with 19 percent.


Most of the Republican polling was however conducted before
Romney shot to the top of the party's fundraising race last week,
raising more than 21 million dollars in the first three months of
the year compared to Giuliani's 15 million and McCain's 12.5
million.


The money advantage could help Romney, who is vying to become
America's first Mormon president, increase his visibility and
improve his opinion poll numbers.

