

The focus may have been on defending champions Australia in the
ongoing World Cup, but New Zealand are silently emerging a major
threat with their clinical performances.


Stephen Fleming's New Zealanders have been marching menacingly
towards the semi- finals and they now need to beat debutants
Ireland in their Super Eights match here on Monday to strengthen
their chances.


Like Australia, New Zealand are the only unbeaten team in the
tournament, having defeated England, Canada and Scotland in group
games and the West Indies and Bangladesh in the second round.
They have six points from three matches.


Ireland look unlikely to stop the Kiwi juggernaut despite
improving with every match. They have fought well against big
teams in the second round, but failed to produce a big
performance when it mattered most.


They caught the eye in group matches when they upset Pakistan and
also tied their game against Zimbabwe. That they deserved a place
in the Super Eights was proved when they tested both England and
South Africa before losing.


"Up to now, we've done everything we've been expected to do. It's
important we take two points against Ireland. It will set us up
for the toughest week with South Africa, Sri Lanka and Australia
to play," said Fleming.


"I agree Ireland know more about us than we do about them, but we
have received some good information about them and we'll go out
and do our best."


Fleming has already given a good account of himself both as
captain and a top- order batsman, having scored 280 runs in five
matches with one century.


The New Zealand captain is not the only player in form as middle-
order batsmen Scott Styris and Craig McMillan have also
contributed.


New Zealand's bowling has more variety, with pacemen Shane Bond
and James Franklin capable of doing the early damage and spinners
Daniel Vettori and Jeetan Patel keeping the batsmen silent in the
middle overs.


Ireland have a pair of effective seamers in Trent Johnston and
David Langford- Smith, but will require more from other bowlers
to raise hopes of restricting New Zealand to a modest total.


They also need a big innings, so essential in setting or chasing
a stiff target. Most of their batsmen got starts against South
Africa and England, but could not convert them into a big knock.


"I'm happy most of the batsmen have good starts and that means
they can play a long innings," said Ireland coach Adrian Birrell.


"We are playing at the highest level (for the first time) and to
beat big sides we have to give 100 percent. We have to take every
chance, but I am happy the guys are doing very well considering
the circumstances.


"It's a daunting task before us, but they have not played against
us before, so that's an advantage."

