

Hundreds of protesters against Ukrainian President Viktor
Yushchenko celebrated Easter in Kiev on Sunday with traditional
cakes and eggs blessed by an Orthodox priest.


Some of the sweet bread "paska" cakes were decorated in the blue-
and-white colours of the Regions party led by Prime Minister
Viktor Yanukovych, who has defied the president's order to
dissolve parliament.


Around 300 demonstrators remained at the camp outside the
parliament in Kiev after a fifth night of protest. Rallies over
the past few days have drawn tens of thousands of opponents to
Yushchenko's rule.


But on Sunday protesters were focused more on the holiday than on
politics.


"We're happy here. We cleaned up the tents and then we broke
fast," said Nadya, a smiling 19-year-old from the northern
Ukrainian city of Sumy, adding that her parents had sent her a
cake.


The Ukrainian capital is considered the historic centre of
Orthodox Christianity, and many protesters have attended church
services here over the Easter holidays.


The mostly young activists, who come largely from central and
eastern regions of Ukraine, have also organised sports
tournaments and picnics -- there are even reports of a blossoming
love story at the protest.


Some Yushchenko supporters, however, have been critical of the
protests on the grounds that they are not appropriate during
Easter -- a time for personal reflection and prayer for
Christians.


In an Easter message late Saturday accusing his critics of trying
to impose "tyranny" in Ukraine, Yushchenko called on the
protesters to leave the streets and squares and celebrate the
holiday at home.


"It's not a sin," said Irina Perminova, a protest organiser from
the region of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine. "Unlike our president,
we're trying to prevent the schism of the country."


The political crisis has stressed differences between
Yanukovych's powerbase in eastern Ukraine, which is mostly
Russian-speaking, and the predominantly Ukrainian-speaking west
of the country.


"We will stay until victory against repeat elections and for the
unity of the country," said Nina, a 55-year-old pensioner also
from the Sumy region.


"God is defending us. It's cold outside but we're not cold here."

