

Asian countries are under increased pressure to hammer out
bilateral free-trade agreements following South Korea's deal with
the United States and as global trade talks falter, analysts say.


If the deal survives opposition in both countries' legislatures,
South Korea will be the first major Asian economy to seal a free-
trade agreement (FTA) with Washington, giving its firms a
competitive boost in the US market.


The deal could galvanise political momentum elsewhere in the
region for free- trade deals, said Motoshige Ito, an economics
professor at the University of Tokyo.


"It could set a trend of deals between major countries in Asia,
such as a tripartite FTA between China, Japan, and South Korea,
or deals with the United States," said Ito.


"Asia has developed a cross-border production network without
huge free trade deals, but after the South Korea-US deal, leaders
in the region may well be compelled to seek freer trade," he
said.


Japan last week signed a free-trade agreement with Thailand and
said it would study an FTA with the United States. It plans trade
talks this month with Australia and also aims to restart
negotiations with South Korea.


Tokyo has also previously floated the idea of a free-trade zone
involving 16 Asia-Pacific nations -- the 10-member ASEAN
Southeast Asian bloc plus Japan, China, South Korea, India,
Australia and New Zealand.


Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao's visit to Japan this week will
provide a potential opportunity for discussions on trade with his
Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe, although few expect any tangible
progress given strained relations.


In contrast, Wen has called for talks with South Korea on a free
trade area to be fast-tracked ahead of his visit to Seoul next
week, Chinese state press reported Friday.


Analysts said that Asian companies, particularly in the high-tech
sectors of Japan and Taiwan, could find life even tougher after
the US-South Korea deal.


At the same time, however, they noted that South Korean companies
such as Samsung and Hyundai Motor are also feeling the squeeze,
caught between up-and- coming China and Japan whose exporters
benefit from a weak yen.


Kakutaro Kitashiro, chairman of the Japan Association of
Corporate Executives, warned last week that the South Korea-US
deal would negatively impact on Japanese firms, particularly auto
and electronics manufacturers.


"We want the government to accelerate trade talks," he said.


However, Shujiro Urata, an economics professor at Waseda
University, said that Japanese automakers should be able to cope
relatively well from the South Korean competition as they have
been shifting production to the United States.


Experts said the pressure may be more acute for Taiwanese firms,
which compete more directly with South Korea.


"For Taiwanese manufacturers, the US-South Korea deal may see
even greater pressure to move offshore, especially (to) China, to
retain a price advantage," said Phil Deans, an East Asia
specialist at Temple University in Tokyo.


"The deal does increase pressure for other Asian countries to
seek similar agreements," he said.


Taiwan is desperate for a free trade pact with the United States,
its key investor and trading partner, to avoid economic
isolation, but such a deal faces major political hurdles due to
China's claims to the island.


Whether Japan and other Asian countries can manage to strike
trade deals depends on whether there is enough political will,
analysts said.


Historically, Japan's efforts to liberalise its trade have been
hampered by the strong political influence of its small farming
community and by agriculture's deep roots in the country's
culture.


With Abe facing falling approval ratings, he may be reluctant to
upset the rural communities, Deans said.


"The big Japanese manufacturers will respond by shifting even
more production overseas," he said.

