

Wives and girlfriends of England's World Cup footballers proved
more successful than their highly-paid, under-performing menfolk
when it came to breaking records last year.


While their men toiled under the German sun, the girls did
England proud as they shopped and shopped and spent 55,000 pounds
in one famous, 60-minute retail blitz in Baden-Baden.


The comparatively sedate world of cricket may not boast
comparable riches, but the partners of the world's top players
are definitely in the same league when it comes to glitz and
glamour.


Top girl is, or rather was, South African supermodel Minki van
der Westhuizen, nicknamed Slinky Minki, who was voted the world's
sexiest cricket WAG last year during her relationship with South
Africa captain Graeme Smith.


The 22-year-old, who has now split from Smith, topped an on-line
poll of more than 10,000 fans organised by the Stick Cricket
website.


She was awarded the ICC, or International Cricket Cutie, Trophy
beating Madhi Muralitharan, wife of Sri Lankan spinner Muttiah,
into second place.


Haley Bracken, wife of Australian World Cup seamer Nathan, came
third.


Top English WAG in the poll was Liberty X singer Jessica Taylor,
the fiancee of Kevin Pietersen.


Stick Sports director Chris Berry said of last year's poll:
"Minki is a cricket fan's dream woman. She's sleek, sexy and with
a successful career to boot.


"Cricketers attract a finer class of WAG. While football is a
game for chaps copping off with Chavs, cricket is a game for
gentlemen going out with goddesses."


Cricket relationships also attract pressure, a situation not
helped by lengthy tours; the current World Cup lasts the best
part of two months.


Smith's split with van der Westhuizen preceeded a similar break-
up for teammate Jacques Kallis who had dated former Miss South
Africa Cindy Nell for three years.


Long spells away from home create intense strain.


"It feels like my life is starting and stopping all the time,"
Haley Bracken told the Daily Telegraph in Australia.


"It does get hard to cope with at times, going to parties by
myself when everyone has their partner with them. And when he's
back home, it's hard to fit back into a routine because I've got
used to being on my own."


She's also not blind to the temptations of the road.


"I'd be naive not to worry about that," she said. "There are
always going to be girls who think the guys have a glamorous
lifestyle and will want a piece of it.


"But I understand that that just goes with the job. And at the
end of the day, I'm the one he comes home to."


There will be no temptations for the England squad at the World
Cup where wives and girlfriends have been welcomed by national
coach Duncan Fletcher.


"We've done it on previous tours and on some of the tours when
they've arrived we've put in some very solid performances," said
Fletcher.


"India was a good example a few years ago when we were losing 1-0
in the Test series and the wives arrived and we ended up drawing
the series - they do help when they arrive."

