

Taiwan police said Sunday they are probing the cause of a fire
that gutted a villa of former Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek,
amid claims of a campaign to wipe out his legacy.


Forensic experts combed the remains of the chateau on scenic
Yangming Mountain for clues to Saturday's early morning fire but
declined to say whether they suspected arson.


However Chiang's grandson and opposition legislator, John Chiang,
said he "highly suspected" the fire was deliberately lit,
although he had no evidence.


The incident comes amid opposition claims that the pro-
independence government of the Democratic Progressive Party is
attempting to remove the legacy of Chiang and his son who ruled
Taiwan from 1949 to 1988.


The leading opposition Kuomintang (KMT) favours friendly ties
with China, which considers Taiwan part of its territory awaiting
reunification, despite their split in 1949 at the end of a civil
war.


The destroyed wooden villa, built in 1920, was Chiang's first
official residence in Taiwan after he fled mainland China at the
end of the war.


The house was refurbished in 1998.


Taipei Mayor Hau Hau Lung-bin has ordered stepped-up surveillance
of Chiang's memorial hall and another residence, both in the
capital, in the wake of Saturday's fire.


Separately, another Chiang residence in Tahsi in Taoyuan county
was sprayed with protest slogans Saturday that read: "Culprit of
February 28 Incident".


The slogan refers to controversial riots in 1947 that forced
mainland Nationalist troops to be called in to quell the unrest,
which spread across the island. Up to 28,000 people were killed
in ensuing violence.


A taboo topic for decades under the Nationalists, then-president
Lee Teng-hui in 1995 officially apologised for the violence and
parliament agreed to compensate victims. February 28 was also
declared a national holiday.


As part of the alleged campaign to remove Chiang's legacy,
President Chen Shui- bian has announced plans to rename his
memorial hall.


Hundreds of Chiang's statues were also removed from all military
premises early this year. A seated statue of Chiang, the largest
of its kind here, was recently dismembered and removed from a
cultural centre in southern Kaohsiung.


Despite an outcry from the KMT, the ruling DPP insists that a
democratic country like Taiwan has no need for statues of the
former "dictator."


Chiang died in 1975 after ruling the island for 26 years while
his son Chiang died in 1988.


The KMT's 51-year grip on power ended when Chen was elected in
2000. He was re- elected in 2004.

