

Aggressive anti-inflation moves by India's central bank will slow
scorching economic growth but are unlikely to result in a "hard
landing," economists say.


The Reserve Bank of India surprised markets late last month when
it sharply tightened monetary policy, alarming industry which
forecast a demand downturn and dismaying borrowers whose housing,
car and other loan repayments jumped.


"They pressed on the brakes a bit hard, but there's no indication
that this is going to produce any kind of serious slowdown," said
D.K. Joshi, economist at Indian rating agency Crisil, citing the
economy's core robustness.


"This year we are looking at growth of 7.9 percent to 8.4 percent
down from 9.2 percent in the last year (to March 2007)," he
added.


India's growth has been the second fastest in the world and
pushed inflation to two-year highs, hurting the purchasing power
of its poor masses.


Still, economists said the central bank must tread carefully in
tightening further to combat inflation, now running at 6.39
percent, nearly a percentage point above the bank's tolerance
ceiling of 5.50 percent.


JPMorgan economist Rajeev Malik noted the cautionary example of
monetary tightening in 1989 by the Bank of Japan "that burst the
property bubble, pushing the economy flat on its back for the
next several years."


"The door to the infamous Hall of Fame of policy mistakes is wide
open," said Malik, who called the latest moves by the bank "shock
therapy."


The bank lifted a key lending rate by 25 basis points to 7.75
percent -- the highest in over four years. It also hiked the
amount of cash commercial banks must hold on deposit by 50 points
to 6.50 percent as it sought to suck out cash and curb rampant
credit growth -- its third such increase in four months.


The bank has been tightening steadily since late 2004 to subdue
inflation.


Cutting prices has also become a priority for the Congress
government after the rising cost of living was cited by analysts
as key to its defeat in two state elections in February and its
drubbing in New Delhi municipal elections on the weekend. Indian
voters are notoriously price aware.


The bank said its latest tightening was prompted by a need to
take "determined action" to fight inflation and its hawkish tone
has spurred speculation more tightening could be in store at its
policy meeting April 24.


T.K. Bhaumik, economist for India's biggest private company
Reliance Industries, said authorities should be wary of tipping
India into recession.


"When we had a long period of economic recession beginning in
1996-97, the trigger was the preoccupation with inflation," he
said.


The bank's latest action also may have been unnecessary as it
came when its tightening medicine appeared to be finally working,
economists say.


It made it look like it had "lost its cool at the wrong time,"
Malik said.


Most economists expect inflation to fall below six percent in
April.


Investment bank Goldman Sachs forecast growth would slow to eight
percent this year, but cautioned its projections were "skewed to
the downside due to the aggressive tightening, especially if it
were to continue for much longer" or a poor monsoon.


The bank said, however, it did not expect the economy to "have a
hard landing as there is underlying strength in the economy,
business confidence is still high and capacity expansion is in
progress."


Finance Minister P. Chidambaram has forecast another year of nine
percent growth and added he is confident of wrestling down
inflation to between four and five percent.

