

Politicians in troubled East Timor made an Easter Sunday appeal
for peace as police said they had arrested about 200 people in
the weeks leading up to Monday's presidential election.


The faithful in the devoutly Roman Catholic nation thronged
churches for Easter mass and President Xanana Gusmao appealed in
a radio broadcast for a vote free of bloodshed or coercion amid
fears for the election's credibility.


"Don't use intimidation, don't use violence to force people to
vote for your candidate or other candidates," said the former
guerrilla leader who is not seeking re-election.


"I ask all the candidates in the name of society to accept the
result of the election heartfully," he said.


The poll is the first for the impoverished nation since gaining
independence in 2002.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, one of eight candidates standing for
the largely ceremonial post of president, and a contender to win,
said he did not expect a fair election in the former Portuguese
colony.


"I hope that UN police and other defence forces from Australia
and New Zealand can work hard to guarantee at least a peaceful
day tomorrow," he said after mass.


Lasama, chairman of the opposition Democratic Party, was one of
four candidates who on Friday said they feared many attempts had
been made to manipulate the election process.


About 200 people have been arrested in the weeks ahead of
Monday's election, which will be secured by more than 4,000 local
and international police backed by peacekeeping troops, officials
said Sunday.


Deputy UN police commissioner Hermanprit Singh said that in
addition to the arrests, a large number of gang leaders and
members remained in custody.


"We have been able to ensure with the prosecutors... their
continued detention so that the people who could have been the
source of trouble during the election remain behind bars," Singh
said.


At least 32 people were injured in election-related clashes
Wednesday in and around the capital Dili although most of the
campaign was peaceful, according to the UN.


Monday's vote comes about one month after Australian troops from
the international security force in East Timor killed five armed
supporters of a renegade soldier, Major Alfredo Reinado, who is
still on the loose.


The peacekeepers were dispatched after unrest in May last year
that killed at least 37 people and forced more than 150,000 to
flee their homes. Intermittent violence blamed on gangs has
continued since, and about 37,000 people are still displaced.


East Timor's Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, who is in a three-
way race with Lasama and ruling Fretilin party chairman Fransisco
Guterres, said the country had reached a crossroads.


"It's a very important moment," the Nobel peace laureate said.


"We will have to follow the leader we are going to choose and
help him so he can do this task better in the next five years."


Reinado, criticised for his role in last year's bloody violence,
urged voters to ditch East Timor's political establishment,
including Ramos-Horta, Gusmao and Fretilin.


There had been fears the fugitive could destabilise Monday's vote
but he remained silent during the two-week election campaign.


"We have to respect democracy with unity, peace and calm," he
said in a printed statement.


More than 522,000 people are registered to vote.


Gusmao on Sunday handed ballot boxes to a polling booth in the
capital Dili, where the cathedral was packed to overflowing with
parishioners including refugees who live in nearby tents.


"I believe that people will behave very well," Gusmao told
reporters.


It is the first ballot since independence in 2002 after a period
of UN stewardship that followed a bloody 1999 separation from
Indonesia, which invaded in 1975.

