

A Soyuz TMA-10 space capsule bearing billionaire Microsoft
pioneer Charles Simonyi soared toward the International Space
Station (ISS) on Sunday, making him the world's fifth space
tourist.


Kazakhstan's black sky lit up with orange and yellow flames as
the rocket took off on schedule late Saturday, carrying Simonyi
toward the ISS along with Russian cosmonauts Oleg Kotov and
Fyodor Yurchikhin.


Observers exploded into cries of joy and applause when officials
confirmed the craft had successfully entered orbit a few minutes
later.


Simonyi's spokeswoman, Susan Hutchinson, said she was "on the
verge of tears."


"The power in the ignition of those engines, the feeling in the
ground gave everybody such a sense of what spaceride is, and so
we viewed with awe and great satisfaction," she told AFP.


"He had a grin on his face, they were doing really well," she
told a friend, then cried out: "Wasn't that a thrill!"


Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, who attended
the launch, smiled and clapped.


The flight, which cost Simonyi 25 million dollars (19 million
euros) and is scheduled to dock at the ISS on Monday, is far more
than a pleasure trip.


Between snapping shots of Earth, Simonyi will be conducting
medical experiments for the European Space Agency and testing
high-definition cameras for the Japanese Aerospace Exploration
Agency.


He plans to detail his experiences on board in a blog at
www.charlesinspace.com.


He will also be preparing a gourmet space dinner for his
crewmates, likely with some pointers from US homemaking guru
Martha Stewart, his partner and one of the 50 well-wishers who
came to watch the launch.


The super-rich lovebirds went without a rumoured pre-launch
engagement announcement, but Stewart screamed and clapped as
Simonyi left the space training centre before take-off, banging
her hands on the window of his bus and chanting: "Charles!
Charles! Charles!"


The dinner Simonyi will prepare in honor of Russian Cosmonauts'
Day on April 12 will have more Stewart-esque flair than the ISS
crew is accustomed to.


"One of those dishes has a wine sauce in French style," Simonyi
said. "I think that the team will be very happy to eat something
different after all that time in space."


Yurchikhin, who will command the 15th mission on the ISS, assured
jokingly that "the wine sauce will be eaten as sauce" and that
the cosmonauts will respect the ban on alcohol.


Simonyi is scheduled to return to Earth on April 20 together with
the current ISS team -- Russia's Mikhail Tyurin and American
Miguel Lopez-Alegria -- while the two Russian cosmonauts will
stay on for a 190-day shift in orbit.


Simonyi is the fifth tourist to travel to the ISS, following the
United States' Dennis Tito (2001) and Greg Olsen (2005), South
Africa's Mark Shuttleworth (2002) and an American of Iranian
origin, Anousheh Ansari (2006).


Space Adventures, the company that organised the trips, plans to
expand its offerings next year to include a 100-million-dollar
trip around the moon and a 100,000-dollar budget option: five
minutes of sub-orbital space flight.

