

Dagenham and Redbridge were preparing to party after earning
promotion to the English Football League by winning the
Conference National title on Saturday.


The Daggers beat visitors Aldershot 2-1 in front of 4,004 fans to
seal the title and the only automatic promotion place to League
Two, the tier three levels below the Premiership.


It will be the east London side's first appearance in the fully
professional Football League.


At their 6,000-capacity Victoria Road ground top scorer Paul
Benson scored in the 12th minute and nearby Stepney-born
midfielder David Rainford made it 2-0 with a 60th-minute penalty.


Jonny Dixon pulled one back but it was not enough to stop joyous
scenes and a pitch invasion at the final whistle.


John Still's side were 40/1 outsiders to win the title at the
start of the season. Still steered Maidstone United into the
Football League in 1989.


Four clubs below Dagenham will contest the play-offs to become
the second team promoted out of the non-league pyramid.


The club was formed in 1992 by the merger of Dagenham and
neighbours Redbridge Forest.


Among their players are former Wales and QPR goalkeeper Tony
Roberts, back from retirement, and Paolo Vernazza, a former
Arsenal youth team and Watford player.


Captain Anwar Uddin, 25, the son of an east London mother and a
Bengali father, could become the first British ethnic South Asian
to be the regular skipper of a league side.


The Daggers will become east London's third league club alongside
Premiership strugglers West Ham United and League One's Leyton
Orient.


The club is sponsored by an undertakers and players have joked
that they should have an open-top hearse victory parade through
the town rather than the traditional open-top bus ride.


England's 1966 World Cup-winning manager Sir Alf Ramsey hailed
from Dagenham, as do Terry Venables, the former England
midfielder and manager and current assistant coach, and former
England and Tottenham striker Jimmy Greaves.


In its heyday last century, the working class suburb was home to
the world's largest public housing development and was dominated
by a giant Ford Motor Company factory.


The suburb has hit the headlines due to a surge in support for
the far-right British National Party following a recent wave of
immigration.

