

The 15 British sailors and marines who spent two weeks in Iranian
captivity have been given permission to sell their stories to the
media, it was announced Saturday.


But the highly unusual decision, announced by the Ministry of
Defence, was immediately attacked by one retired senior military
figure, who claimed that it would play into Iran's hands.


An MoD spokeswoman said that its ban on serving personnel
entering into financial agreements with media organisations was
being relaxed because of the highly unusual situation.


"In exceptional circumstances such as the awarding of a Victoria
Cross (the forces' top valour award) or events such as those in
recent days, permission can be granted by commanding officers and
the Ministry of Defence," she said.


"That's what has happened here."


She said there had been "considerable media interest" in buying
the groups' stories but could not confirm whether any deals had
yet been struck.


Colonel Bob Stewart, a former senior British army commander, said
he was "gobsmacked" by the decision.


"This is hardly one of the most glorious annals of Royal Naval
history," he told BBC television.


"We're glorifying something that we would hope would be fish and
chip paper next week."


Asked what he thought the Iranians would make of the decision, he
added: "I think they'll think we're totally mad, we've gone
ballistically silly about it and they will probably think: 'I'm
glad we got rid of them because they're self- destructing without
us having to do anything.'"


The 15 were dramatically freed by Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad Wednesday and flew back to Britain Thursday.


Despite television pictures of the group laughing and joking
during their time in Iran, they told a press conference Friday
that they had been ill-treated.


But Iran claims that the allegations were made under official
pressure.


"The mistreatment of the sailors is a lie," said Ali Akbar
Javanfekr, top press spokesman for Ahmadinejad.


"The British authorities should know that they cannot keep hiding
the truth from the British people," he said, adding that London
was "seeking to improve their situation and and diminish the
pressure of public opinion."


The party was captured in the northern Gulf on March 23. Iran
claims they were in Iranian waters, but Britain insists they were
in the Iraqi zone.


Newspapers are likely to be most keen to secure the first
interview with Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26, the only woman in
the party and a married mother-of-one.


She became the focus of human interest stories about the
situation and was singled out by Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, who criticised Britain for sending a woman on active
service.

