

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar hailed his country's stunning
67-run victory over world number one South Africa on Saturday as
the team's greatest ever triumph.


"It's an historic win," said Bashar after his Tigers had bowled
out the Proteas for 184 in reply to 251-8 in their World Cup
Super Eights match at Providence.


"We can now think of moving forward in the tournament. We lifted
ourselves in this game and once we put a good total on the board
we knew we could fight."


South Africa are hanging on to the fourth and last semi-final
qualifying place and captain Graeme Smith admitted that his
highly-rated team, who squeezed out a one-wicket win over Sri
Lanka last week, had been disappointing.


"It was a poor day for us but credit to Bangladesh who played
very well," said Smith.


"We had them under pressure at times but we released that
pressure. We never got our disciplines right and we didn't get
our basics right.


"If you don't get those basics right you won't win games. We gave
them an opportunity and they took it with both hands.


"It's hard to take positives from any facet of the game today."


Middle-order batsman Mohammad Ashraful played a key role for
Bangladesh as he smashed a quickfire 83-ball 87 to help survive
South African paceman Andrew Nel's maiden five-wicket haul in the
morning session.


"This game is all about teamwork," said the 22-year-old Ashraful.


"We got to 251 and then we bowled really well, especially the
three spinners.


"When I came in with three wickets down early on, I had a plan to
bat and stay in. But Aftab Ahmed (35) and Mashrafe Mortaza (25)
played well too."


Left-arm seamer Syed Rasel then built on Ashraful's effort,
dismissing South Africa skipper Graeme Smith (12) and in-form
Jacques Kallis (32) in his opening spell to put South Africa on
the back foot.


Rattled by pace, South Africa then looked clueless against spin.


They found themselves under pressure, but failed to find the
batsmen to rise to the occasion. They virtually went out of the
game when they slipped from 63-1 to a pathetic 87-6.


Left-arm spinner Saqibul Hasan did the maximum damage in the
middle overs as he had Mark Boucher (12) caught by Rasel and then
held a low return catch to account for Justin Kemp (seven) off
successive deliveries.


Left-arm spinners Abdur Razzak (3-25) and Mohammad Rafique (1-22)
also kept the batsmen silent with their tight spells.


Herschelle Gibbs, batting low down the order and with a runner
because of a calf injury, top-scored with an unbeaten 56 in a
below-par South African performance.


Bangladesh opener Javed Omar, who made 17 in an opening stand of
42 with teenager Tamim Iqbal, said the batsmen played a key role.


"We had been struggling to get our opening partnerships going but
they put me in there and we've got some good partnerships that
have helped the team a lot," said Omar.


"It was a little bit of a slow wicket but in the sub-continent
you get used to that and me and Tamim coped pretty well.


"It's important you don't lose a wicket in the first 10 to 15
overs - we did that and it was a good result."

