

East Timor's Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, the troubled
nation's voice during two decades of Indonesian occupation, is a
contender to win its presidential election Monday.


Ramos-Horta, 57, was a founder of the independence movement in
the former Portuguese colony.


After Indonesia invaded in 1975 he spent 24 years in exile,
developing an international reputation as spokesman for the East
Timorese resistance.


His efforts to bring peace to his homeland earned him a 1996
Nobel Peace Prize, which he shared with East Timorese Bishop
Carlos Felipe Ximenes Belo.


A former journalist, Ramos-Horta is an elegant polyglot who
typically sports a five o'clock shadow and was often seen wearing
bow ties.


With Anna Pessoa, now East Timor's Minister for State and
Internal Administration, he had a son, Maubere Loro Sae Horta,
who has been studying defence and strategic studies at
universities abroad.


Asked in an interview last year whether he foresees a time when
he and his father might serve in the same administration, Loro
Horta chuckled and said: "I certainly hope not because I wouldn't
like to work under him."


He said his father is "quite tough" on him, and both father and
son have a temper.


"I think we're very, very similar personalities," said Loro
Horta, who has a dry sense of humour.


During his exile, Ramos-Horta discovered a passion for cinema and
traditional jazz but also became familiar with the workings of
the United Nations.


After independence in 2002, he served as East Timor's foreign
minister before his appointment last year as prime minister and
defence minister.


He is close to Xanana Gusmao, the former guerrilla leader who is
not seeking re- election to the presidency.


The prime minister has insisted he never looked for positions of
power.


When he announced his presidential candidacy, he said he had
dedicated his life to East Timor, or Timor-Leste as it is
officially known.


"The Timorese people and the international community know me and
I know well my well-loved land, from one end to the other," he
said.


Rita Amaral Lino, 34, a civil servant, said that in a country
which has spent three decades searching for peace, Ramos-Horta is
the right man to be president.


"Today I want Ramos-Horta," Lino said.


Andrea Bartoli, of the Centre for International Conflict
Resolution at New York's Columbia University, said Ramos-Horta is
"the perfect figurehead" for the largely ceremonial post of
president.


"He will keep travelling the globe, mustering good will, helping
Timor-Leste as he always has," Bartoli said.


Ramos-Horta vowed last week to stand behind whoever wins the
election, "to make sure that he or she will have all the help
needed to stabilise the country and move the country forward."

