

Kuwait's foreign minister warned in an interview published on
Sunday that wrangling in the standoff over Iran's controversial
nuclear programme must not be allowed to escalate.


"The situation is moving towards escalation and confrontation in
the region," Sheikh Mohammed Sabah al-Salem al-Sabah told the
pan-Arab daily Al-Hayat newspaper.


The UN Security Council has imposed two packages of sanctions
against Iran over its failure to heed international ultimatums
calling on it to suspend its uranium enrichment programme.


The latest resolution placed a "timeline of escalation against
Tehran," Sheikh Mohammed said, adding that he feared "what
happened to Saddam Hussein might happen to the Iranians."


The United States fears Iran is secretly developing an atomic
weapon, a charge Tehran strongly denies.


Sheikh Mohammed said he met his Iranian counterpart Manouchehr
Mottaki at a meeting of Arab leaders in Saudi Arabia last month
and urged him to "work with wisdom, with lawful international
decisions."


Gulf Arab states neighbouring Iran are close allies of the United
States and fear being dragged into a military conflict if
concerns over the Islamic republic's nuclear ambitions are not
resolved peacefully.


Iran on Sunday reiterated that any suspension of sensitive
nuclear activities was not open to discussion, the day before
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is expected to announce a major
development in its atomic project.


"We will not discuss the legitimate rights of Iran," foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told a news conference
in Tehran.


Ahmadinejad on Monday is due to visit the uranium enrichment
facility in Natanz -- Iran's most sensitive nuclear site -- to
mark the Islamic republic's day of nuclear technology.


He is expected to make a major announcement after repeatedly
promising "good news" about Iran's nuclear programme in the near
future.


Iran has said it wants to install 3,000 uranium-enriching
centrifuges at Natanz, and observers are expecting the
announcement to refer to progress in the enrichment process.

