

Generations after her tribe was decimated by the Russian
conquest, Alaskan artist Helen Simeonoff discovered the remains
of her culture in a French museum.


The masks, hunting tools, beaded headdress and other objects had
rested quietly in the coastal museum for more than a hundred
years after French explorer Alfonse Pinart brought them home as
trinkets.


It is one of the only remaining collections of Sugpiaq artifacts
from the pre- colonial period, but had always been displayed
merely as primitive objects of art.


Until Simeonoff walked into the Chateau Musee in Boulogne-sur-Mer
and found a window to her ancestors and a way to revive a culture
destroyed by colonialism.


"I had never seen my culture before. To see your whole culture
laid before your eyes in one fell swoop -- it's overwhelming,"
she told AFP.


"Pinart was in my mother's village ... and I got to thinking
which one of my ancestors made this beaded headdress?"


Simeonoff was the first Sugpiaq artist to view the museum's
collection, but not the last. She came home determined to share
the experience that filled her with joy at the discovery and a
sense of grief and for the deep loss her people continue to
experience.


In the six years since Simeonoff's visit, several other groups
have made pilgrimages to Boulogne-sur-Mer, bringing back stories,
photographs and the inspiration to create new works of art and to
train residents of remote villages in their lost art of mask-
making.


And the museum has begun working with researchers in Alaska to
develop a catalogue examining the cultural and archaeological
implications of the collection.


"For us, it's an eye-opening experience, because we had been
blind in the face of these objects," Anne-Claire Laronde, curator
of the Chateau-Musee, said in a telephone interview.


"In France, unfortunately, we've maintained what I see as a
colonialist attitude by examining these objects only
aesthetically, without asking the creators what they think and
how they see these objects, which are archaeological objects and
cultural objects."


A large portion of the collection will return to Alaska for the
first time next May as a visiting exhibit.


It is expected to have a profound impact on the Sugpiaq people
because very little of the old ways of Kodiak Island survived.


More than 90 percent of the tribe perished in the years following
the Russian conquest. What remained of the old rituals and an
oral history consisting of legends and songs was then abandoned
as pagan under the influence of Orthodox priests, said ethno-
archaeologist Sven Haakansan.


Those Sugpiaq (also known as Alutiiq because of the language they
speak) looking to reclaim their heritage were essentially forced
to borrow from the tribes of Alaska's interior which were less
severely impacted by colonialism.


That has changed profoundly now that Sugpiaq artists and
academics are working with the Pinart collection.


"They're very important to us because they're the only collection
we've discovered of Alutiiq masks that show us the legends and
songs," said Haakansan who is the director of the Alutiiq Museum
in Kodiak.


"To me, the most important thing is the psychological changes
here. Growing up we knew about the Eskimos up north and the
cowboys and Indians," he said.


Now, "we can celebrate who we are as a unique group in Alaska.
Instead of borrowing from other cultures we have our own ... we
have a baseline to go back to."


Simeonoff has blossomed as an artist, expanding her palette into
non-traditional colors like pink and exploring new ways to depict
the old work.    In one canvass, she drew a precise replica of
one of the Pinart masks before smearing it with streaks of paint
to create a lively and modern mood. In another, a cartoon-like
blue figure dances with a traditional mask.


When she first started painting, Simeonoff felt insecure as an
artist, borrowing from other native tribes and afraid to stray
from traditional forms and colors.


She recalled a time that a critic came up to her and asked her
why she didn't paint her own culture. She was too ashamed to
admit she did not know it.


"I don't have to be ashamed anymore, and it's thanks to Mr.
Pinart," she said. "I'm complete. I'm not borrowed anymore. I
know who I am and we were good!"

