

Iraq's dwindling Christian minority donned their Sunday best and
spoiled their children during quiet Easter celebrations at home,
fearful of the bombings and abductions terrorising Baghdad's
streets.


"Despite the sorrow and pain, we have been preparing for the
feast, which is upon us, buying new clothes for the children,"
says Hiyam, a 42-year-old mother of two arriving for the
traditional Catholic mass with her husband.


After church, it is round to her mother's for a Sunday lunch of
deep fried meatballs and biriyani rice. Chocolate Easter eggs are
not a fixture in Iraq.


Hiyam and her husband say most Christians at the Our Lady of
Salvation Church in the once wealthy Karrada district have packed
up and fled abroad in the four years since the US-led invasion.


The nationwide community, which stood at more than one million
people before the 1991 Gulf War and is one of the oldest in the
world, has shrunk over the years, with more and more people
fleeing Iraq's insecurity for safer shores.


But as Christians prayed for peace and security on Sunday, Hiyam
and Essam were determined to look on the brighter side. One of
the luckier ones, Essam has a job as an engineer, despite soaring
unemployment.


"This is our country... I've lived in Iraq all my life. You never
know what'll happen. Iraq has always been full of surprises,"
says Essam.


The family lives in the southwestern Saidiya district, the site
of numerous car bombs, but Essam says they live in peace with
their Muslim neighbours.


"We are respected by everyone. We have no problem... There are
problems for all Iraqis. Christians can be kidnapped and killed
just like anyone else."


The Our Lady of Salvation congregation is a smart one. Women,
dressed to the nines in strappy sandals with painted toes peeping
out, their long tresses carefully coiffed, curled and even
highlighted in the latest fashion.


Although women in Baghdad are increasingly opting for the hijab
in public, there's not a headscarf in sight at church until women
fish pieces of black or white lace out of their handbags to cover
their curls during the service.


But behind the extra efforts for the feast, the tight-fitting
shirts and cotton trousers slashed at the calf, awareness of the
capital's chronic insecurity looms.


"I'm coming to church but, because the situation is delicate
there are no family celebrations. We're treated as second-class
citizens, by the government, in the streets," says Habib Tomas, a
57-year-old bachelor who lives alone.


"Things are different and Christian women are even wearing the
veil now because it's dangerous not to."


In the violence wracking Iraq, many churches have been bombed and
the country's estimated 700,000 Christians have kept a low
profile amid fears of attack from Islamic extremists, who view
the community as pro-American.


"I beg those behind the killing and bombing to stop. We are
losing our loved ones for nothing," a Christian widow told AFP
recently, cuddling her young son and mourning her doctor husband
killed in a car bomb.


Adel and Lydia Georgis got married five months ago. Holding
hands, they still have the look of young love. He dabbles in the
furniture trade while his 19 -year-old wife stays at home. Jobs
are hard to come by anyway.


"Most of our family have gone abroad, to Syria or to Australia,"
he says.


"In'shallah (God willing), I really hope we're going too," she
says, foundation caked on her young teenage face to cover pimples
on her forehead.


One of two suited ushers welcoming churchgoers, Alaa is willing
to tuck a handgun discreetly behind his jacket should any visitor
arrive armed.


Depressed by the situation in Iraq, he is unemployed and says his
hopes of working for the government have been dashed because
candidates need sponsorship from Shiite, Sunni or Kurdish
political parties to which he doesn't belong.


Ammar al-Hakim -- son of Abdel Aziz al-Hakim, one of Iraq's
leading Shiite politicians -- was seen visiting another Baghdad
church, paying his respects to Christians.


"The whole family will be celebrating at home because it's
difficult to go out," says Alaa. Lunch will be sheep's head,
stuffed vegetables and stuffed vine leaves followed by Iraqi
patisserie and dates.

