

A former political prisoner and onetime guerrilla fighter, both
little-known abroad, pose a serious challenge to the
globetrotting Prime Minister Jose Ramos- Horta in Monday's East
Timor presidential election, analysts say.


Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres, 53, is running for the powerful
Fretilin party, which led East Timor's independence struggle. He
is the party president and speaker of parliament, where Fretilin
holds a majority.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, 44, leader of the largest opposition
bloc, the Democratic Party, is also mounting a challenge for the
presidency.


The other major contender, Ramos-Horta, 57, is seeking to move
from the prime minister's post to the largely-ceremonial
presidency, replacing his close associate Xanana Gusmao who is
not seeking re-election.


"It is a three-way contest," said Damien Kingsbury of Australia's
Deakin University.


He forecast a run-off, which will be held if no single candidate
gets more than 50 percent of the vote.


A total of eight candidates are running in the first presidential
ballot since independence in 2002.


Ramos-Horta gained an international reputation as East Timor's
voice during two decades of Indonesian occupation, when he lived
in exile and pressed the case for the country's freedom. He later
shared a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts.


Lu-Olo and Lasama, as they are popularly known, also played
crucial but less widely-publicised roles in the independence
struggle.


Lu-Olo "spent the entire 24-year Indonesian occupation of his
country as a resistance fighter and independence activist based
in the mountains," Fretilin said in a statement.


After Indonesia invaded the former Portuguese colony in December
1975, the ex- school teacher retreated to the mountains and
joined a rebel platoon, Fretilin said.


He took on an increasing number of roles within the resistance
and, by the time Indonesian forces withdrew in 1999, had become
the most senior Fretilin leader inside the country, the party
said.


Younger than Lu-Olo, Lasama was just 12 years old when Indonesia
invaded. During the early years of occupation he lived in the
mountains with others displaced by the war, his Democratic Party
said in a biographical note.


While studying literature later at a university in Bali, he
founded RENETIL, a clandestine students' resistance group, but
was arrested and tortured in Bali in 1991, the party said.


During more than six years of incarceration, he did time in
Jakarta's Cipinang prison where resistance leader Gusmao was also
jailed.


After his release, Lasama studied and taught at an Australian
university before returning to East Timor to found the Democratic
Party in 2001 ahead of general elections, the party said. It won
8.72 percent of the vote and gained seven legislative seats.


"His basis of support comes from the country's youth," the party
statement said.


Fretilin retains a solid base of support because of its
leadership of the independence struggle but it has also been
criticised for a lack of political openness and use of
intimidation.


"Fretilin and the administration which it created has lost
credibility in the eyes of Timorese people," Lasama has said.


East Timor suffered deadly unrest last year that degenerated into
gang violence. At least 37 people were killed and 150,000
displaced, with houses burned and looted during the fighting.


Some gangs claimed to act in the name of Loro Monu, the western
part of the country, others for Loro Sae, the east.


But Lasama and Lu-Olo have both said the supposed east-west
divide does not really exist and has been manipulated for
political ends.


Lasama said those who hold power in East Timor "want to govern
for more than 50 years" and that the Loro Sae-Loro Monu issue was
not historical fact but "political fabrication."


Lu-Olo said east-west "divisions were artificially created and
with goodwill and hard work can be brought to an end."

