

Global financial chiefs gather in Washington this week to take
stock of a world economy that appears to be shrugging off a
housing-led slowdown in the United States.


However, currency rates will again stoke debate among finance
ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven nations,
who meet Friday ahead of the annual spring gathering of the IMF
and World Bank at the weekend.


"Discussion on exchange rates is likely to include the yen, the
dollar, the euro and the (Chinese) yuan," Japanese Finance
Minister Koji Omi said last Friday.


But the G7 industrialized nations -- Britain, Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- "will not
particularly focus on the yen" at their meeting, Omi told
reporters in Tokyo.


The G7 ministers opted for a relatively soft line on the sliding
Japanese yen at their February meeting in Germany despite
European concerns about the currency's weakness, which is hurting
eurozone exporters.


Omi said the finance chiefs will also discuss the health of the
global economy and the future of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF).


Under its Spanish managing-director Rodrigo Rato, the six-decade-
old Fund is trying to overhaul its historic role as a lender of
last resort to countries embroiled in financial crisis.


Ten years after crisis swept through East Asian economies, the
IMF is seen as less relevant to fast-emerging powers like China,
whose build-up of huge currency reserves has made the country far
less reliant on outside help.


At annual talks in September, the IMF raised the voting power of
China and three other countries -- South Korea, Mexico and Turkey
-- but it faces disquiet from several European and developing
nations about deeper reform.


This Wednesday, the IMF publishes its latest World Economic
Outlook (WEO) report, replete with detailed forecasts for growth
among its 185 members.


According to a report in the Financial Times Deutschland, the IMF
is set to forecast US growth in 2007 of 2.2 percent and 2.8
percent next year. That would be down from 3.3 percent last year.


The business newspaper said the IMF report would forecast world
growth of 4.9 percent this year and 4.8 percent next.


The IMF's new chief economist, Simon Johnson, believes the United
States will avert recession and "bounce back pretty quickly" from
its housing slowdown, while the rest of the global economy is in
good shape.


"If the United States sneezes, you should worry about other parts
of the world catching cold. But at the moment, other parts of the
world are healthy," he told a news conference last week.


"The US is a significant part of the (global) economy ... but
it's not by any means the whole story," Johnson stressed. "The
contribution of China and India and other emerging markets is
definitely positive."


In a pre-released section of the WEO, the IMF said that some of
the world's economic imbalances may be corrected as the dollar's
value declines. Last week the dollar slumped to a two-year low
against the euro.


The massive US trade gap -- of 763.6 billion dollars in 2006 --
has been among key concerns for finance officials as surpluses
and currency reserves mount in countries such as China.


But the US current account deficit is already looking better,
Johnson said. "It looks like that part of the global imbalances
has turned the corner," he said.


Under-fire World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz meanwhile will be
under the spotlight this weekend as he presses ahead with a
controversial campaign to clean up corruption in the bank's
lending.


The former deputy Pentagon chief was forced back to the drawing
board after the campaign came in for widespread criticism in
September.


But last month, he hailed unanimous support from the World Bank's
board for the latest version, which emphasizes the need to engage
more with civil society, the private sector and the media in the
bank's client countries.


"We can't sit around and wait three or five years for the
governance situation to be perfect. We have to produce some
results and do it in a way that keeps track of where the money's
going," Wolfowitz said at the time.

