

Stephen Fleming could complete a century of wins as New Zealand
skipper over the next eleven days and take a huge step towards a
first-ever World Cup title at the same time.


Fleming, who completed ten years in charge on the day when New
Zealand beat Canada in the World Cup group phase last month, pits
his wits against world number one South Africa, defending
champions Australia and former champions Sri Lanka in their
upcoming Super Eights campaign.


Before those testing duels, the Black Caps will face Ireland here
on Monday.


Fleming, who holds the record of most one-day matches as captain
with 213 - 20 more than the second place Arjuna Ranatunga of Sri
Lanka - has a record of 96 wins, 103 defeats, one tie and 13 no
results.


"Leading this current team is different. This is a very skilled
side and we have come here with a fair idea of what is needed and
we are very confident of winning," said Fleming.


Under Fleming, New Zealand bowed out of the 1999 World Cup in
England at the semi-final stages. In 2003, in South Africa, they
failed to qualify for the Super Sixes.


"Apart from my own experience, the difference is in the level of
training. I don't think we have trained in other Cups better than
this," said Fleming, whose team won all three matches in the
first round.


They have since beaten Bangladesh by nine wickets and the West
Indies by seven wickets and are third in the Super Eights table
behind Australia and Sri Lanka.


Fleming's own form with the bat has been instrumental, hitting
two half- centuries and an unbeaten hundred against Bangladesh.
He now needs just another 36 to become the first New Zealander to
score 8,000 one-day runs.


"To be honest the hardest part of the job and the toughest week
is coming up with the top three to play, but up to now we have
done everything that's been asked and we have a good chance of
winning."


Fleming said it was important to keep consistency in selection.


"We want to play a consistent side. I have been involved in the
World Cups where we chopped and changed too much. If you have 12
guys in form and they are doing well then keep them," said the
captain.


The New Zealand skipper ruled out any possibility of resting
spearhead Shane Bond in the match against Ireland.


"Bond will play against Ireland, it's important that he plays
throughout and we want to get two points and for that we need to
put out the strongest side. Mark Gillespie has also come back
into contention (after injury), so we have more options
available."


Fleming praised his team's all-round abilities.


"We are a capable side in all elements. Some of the bowlers
haven't been able to bowl as much as they would have liked but we
are training specifically to give them more nets."


Fleming believes the next week will reveal the line-up for the
semi-finals.


"It looks like South Africa, Australia, Sri Lanka and New
Zealand, and there may be some twists, probably England and the
West Indies might do something but the next few days will tell us
exactly."

