

Charlton Athletic manager Alan Pardew welcomes his former club
Reading to The Valley on Monday believing that his time running
the Royals will help him keep the Addicks in the English
Premiership.


Pardew was in charge at the Madejski Stadium for four years and
guided them from League One up into the Championship before
leaving to join West Ham United in 2003.


He took over at Charlton on December 24 and Friday's 0-0 draw at
Manchester City lifted his side out of the Premiership's bottom
three for the first time since September.


Many expected Charlton to be relegated without so much as a
whimper after a disastrous start to the season under managers
Iain Dowie and Les Reed.


But Pardew insists he always felt confident he would be able to
lead the Addicks to safety.


"I walked into this situation before at Reading, who were bottom
of the second division (League One), and I walked into it at West
Ham, who had been relegated three months before," he said.


"I knew roughly what to expect and I think I was better equipped
to deal with it this time around than both those times.


"It was a slow start at Reading and West Ham, but I changed a few
things coming into this one and it's worked well."


Charlton fell at the first hurdle in this season's FA Cup, losing
2-0 in a third round tie with League One side Nottingham Forest
in January.


It brought Pardew back down to earth after a convincing draw with
Fulham and a 2-1 win over Aston Villa in his first two games.


"Getting knocked out of the FA Cup by Nottingham Forest was the
low point of my time here. It was a performance that bore no
hallmarks of the type of team that I put out," Pardew said.


"We had to re-analyse things after that, put people in
perspective about what's important.


"It worried me. After Fulham and Villa I thought: 'OK, this is
going to be all right.' But the Forest game was a problem.


"We had a run of tough games after that and that result didn't
help. But we're a long way off that now. I'd love to replay that
game, but life doesn't give you that chance."


Charlton's elevation to fourth-bottom might give Pardew and his
players a huge psychological lift, but their future is far from
certain.


West Ham are two points and two places below them in the table
after their surprise 1-0 victory at Arsenal on Saturday.


Pardew added: "I always believed it would go right down to the
wire, but we're in there fighting, make no mistake about it. The
momentum is with us."


Reading have had an outstanding debut season in the Premiership
-- although as West Ham and Wigan Athletic will point out, the
second campaign is much harder.


Saturday's 2-1 home defeat by Liverpool seems to have put paid to
the Royals' hope of UEFA Cup qualification -- not that manager
Steve Coppell is bothered by that.


"We're not ready for Europe at the moment and qualifying would
pose us a lot of problems we don't really need right now," he
said.


"I would prefer to concentrate on staying in the Premiership next
season, rather than having the unwelcome distraction of European
football to worry about."


Coppell has vowed to change his side for the trip to Charlton.


"Over Easter periods it is important that you can use your squad,
and that is what we will do," said Coppell, who should welcome
Royals captain Graeme Murty back from injury to play against the
Addicks.

