

It's a dream holiday for anyone willing to spend as much a 500
dollars a day to float through the palm-fringed backwaters of
India's southern Kerala state.


Traditional wooden dhows decorated like hotel rooms carry
tourists on an idyll through what advertisers are dubbing "God's
own country".


Since the Indian government made Kerala a highlight of its
worldwide "Incredible India" campaign tourist arrivals to the
state have crossed 300,000  -- while the total for the country
rose to a record 4.4 million in 2006, up 14 percent on the year
before.


Overseas tourists spent 1.7 billion dollars in the state alone
last year visiting beaches and colonial-era coffee and tea
plantations, viewing elephants and other wildlife, and floating
on the houseboats, according to the World Travel and Tourism
Council.


But tourism appears to be taking off faster than local
authorities can ensure the industry is up to the task.


Following a recent tragedy that left 18 dead, state regulators
found many of the boats that are central to Kerala's tourism boom
lacked fire equipment, licenses and food permits.


Several vessels have been impounded and the owners of dozens of
others plying the estuaries of the Arabian Sea town of Alappuzha
fined.


"Our inspections of the houseboats in Alappuzha revealed that the
majority of them do not have safety measures or valid licenses to
operate in the backwaters," said Govindan Sali, Kerala's
inspector of boats.


"We have impounded nine houseboats for operating in the
backwaters without a valid license and fined another 63
houseboats for not keeping safety measures in the boats."


Sali estimated that 350 houseboats plied the backwaters. Since
the end of February, he said, he had inspected about 200 and
described most as makeshift.


Many of the vessels offer elaborate services including fresh
seafood, cocktails and an enclosure where couples can watch
elephants being transported on barges, and enjoy moonlit nights
and soft breezes.


The trips last up to a week and offer travellers an opportunity
to witness daily life in the region, famed for its spices, fruit,
and seafood curries.


But Sali said the tourist image of the state was at stake,
particularly after 15 children aged under 11 were killed in a
boating accident in Kerala's most popular state-run park in mid
February.


More than 50 children were packed into a boat intended for six
people. They had no life jackets and none of the staff were
trained in water safety.


"We have conducted raids after the boat tragedy in Thattekad
reservoir that killed 15 school children and three teachers. We
want to ensure the safety of tourists holidaying in Kerala," said
Sali.


The focus of the inspections, Alappuzha, is 150 kilometres (94
miles) north of the state capital Thiruvananthapuram, a hub for
backwater cruises.


"Our inspection of the houseboats found that majority of the boat
drivers do not have a valid license," Sali added.


The state's minister for water resources, N.K. Permachandran,
told AFP he had ordered the inspections to ensure that both
houseboats and ferries were safe.


"I don't want another tragedy to happen and we are taking
precautions to ensure passenger safety," he said.


Tour operators, however, feared the inspections would scare away
tourists and hurt the industry.


"It takes more than a year to get a license. Hundreds of
applications are pending for the last one year. Now they are
punishing us for no fault of ours," complained Analan Sukumaran,
an Alappuzha boat owner.


Sukumaran, 35, said he converted his fishing boat into a
houseboat last year to take advantage of the boom.


"I became a tour operator when I lost my job as a fisherman," he
said. "We carry only one or two guests in our boats. Being a
fisherman, I can swim and save my guests if any incident
happens."


But Sali said that accidents do happen and many of the boat
owners are unprepared.

