

Manchester United's hold on the top on the Premiership crumbled
Saturday as their defeat at Portsmouth blew open the title race
and left Chelsea breathing down their necks.


The Red Devils lost 2-1 to Pompey after champions Chelsea cranked
up the pressure with a 1-0 victory at home to Tottenham Hotspur,
leaving them just three points behind United with just six games
remaining.


Elsewhere, relegation-threatened West Ham stunned Arsenal with a
1-0 victory, becoming the first visiting side to win a
competitive match at the new Emirates Stadium, while Liverpool
left it late to beat hosts Reading 2-1.


Portsmouth's Matty Taylor capitalised on a weak block from United
goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar to score in the 30th minute at
Fratton Park.


The Netherlands international was caught off his line in the 89th
minute, Rio Ferdinand's toe-poke running past him for an own
goal.


United's John O'Shea pulled one back in stoppage time but it was
too little, too late.


United boss Alex Ferguson admitted it was a shot in the arm for
Chelsea and the title race could go to the wire.


"They are going to be crucial games now," he told Sky Sports
television.


"It probably will be (a psychological boost) for them.


"If it was down to winning the last game at Old Trafford I think
I'd take that."


At Stamford Bridge, Ricardo Carvalho's 52nd-minute goal won it
for Chelsea against Spurs as they kept the heat on United.


The Portugal centre-half fired a low drive past Paul Robinson for
his third league goal of the season.


In a late substitute outing, Chelsea's England midfielder Joe
Cole made his first Premiership appearance since breaking a foot
in November.


Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho said of Manchester United: "I think
they have no pressure. They are top of the league. It is the same
story as the previous season when people were saying Chelsea were
under pressure and I was saying there is no pressure.


"And they are very lucky because they don't play here next week."


At Emirates Stadium, the hosts laid siege to West Ham's goal but
could not find a way past their outstanding goalkeeper Robert
Green.


Hammers striker Bobby Zamora scored with an excellent finish just
before half- time.


West Ham, who had six shots on goal to Arsenal's 29, were the
last team to beat the Gunners at their old Highbury ground last
season.


Arsenal stay fourth but the Hammers move two points from safety
at the foot of the table.


"We should have scored 10 and in the end we lost 1-0, so it is
very difficult to understand how it happened," said Gunners boss
Arsene Wenger.


"It is very difficult to find a logical explanation."


Liverpool strengthened their grip on third place thanks to a late
strike against the Royals.


Defender Alvaro Arbeloa scored in the 15th minute with a smart
finish.


Iceland midfielder Brynjar Gunnarsson stunned the Champions
League quarter- finalists in the 47th minute, taking the ball on
his chest and blasting it across the goalface and into the net
off the far post.


But Dutch forward Dirk Kuyt won it for the Reds with a header
four minutes from time.


"Hopefully we will reach the semi-final of the Champions League
and I hope we can be sure we are in the top four so we can
concentrate on that," Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez said.


Bolton Wanderers beat hosts Wigan 3-1 in a Lancashire derby at
the JJB Stadium to move just two points behind Arsenal.


Wigan's former England forward Emile Heskey scored his 100th
career league goal in the 32nd minute.


France striker Nicolas Anelka equalised but Bolton defender
Andranik Teymourian then scored twice to leave Wigan two points
above the relegation zone.


Visitors Newcastle United worsened Sheffield United's relegation
woes with a 2-1 win at Bramall Lane as Aston Villa eased their
fears of the drop with a 2-1 win at Blackburn.


Mid-table Middlesbrough thrashed rock-bottom Watford 4-1 at The
Riverside.


On Friday, Everton beat visitors Fulham 4-1 at Goodison Park to
keep them in the chase for European football next season, while
Charlton Athletic grabbed a precious point from a scoreless draw
at Manchester City.


The next round of Premiership matches comes as soon as Monday, a
public holiday in Britain.

