

East Timor's ruling party Fretilin has accused Prime Minister
Jose Ramos-Horta, a candidate in Monday's presidential election,
of abuse of power for airing an Easter message on state
television.


Ramos-Horta delivered his "Message from the Prime Minister" with
outgoing President Xanana Gusmao and Dili Bishop Alberto Ricardo
da Silva, Fretilin candidate Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres said in
a statement.


"The programme was structured so as to give the impression that
Gusmao and the church endorsed Ramos-Horta's presidential
campaign," said Lu-Olo, who is Fretilin party president and
speaker of parliament.


He called the use of government resources "an abuse of power" and
said "it was the latest in a series of actions by Gusmao to
facilitate a job swap between Gusmao and Ramos-Horta."


Neither Ramos-Horta nor a spokesman for the National Election
Commission supervising the vote could be immediately reached for
comment.


Ramos-Horta and Lu-Olo are seen as the chief contenders to win
along with Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, chairman of the
opposition Democratic Party.


A total of eight people are running in the ballot, the first
since the tiny country gained full independence in 2002.


Lasama and three other candidates on Friday said they feared
attempts had been made to manipulate the election and that
violence could break out when voters go to the polls Monday.


Lu-Olo and Ramos-Horta separately accused a priest who sits on
the National Election Commission of interference.


The accusation was levelled against Father Martinho Gusmao, who
Fretilin said "clearly prejudiced" the vote by voicing support
for de Araujo's candidacy.


Fretilin earlier criticised Gusmao after the president said he
would join a new party, CNRT, and seek to become prime minister.
The job has more clout than the largely ceremonial position he
currently holds.


The CNRT, or National Congress of Reconstruction of Timor, has
the same initials in Portuguese as a group that sought
independence in a UN-supervised referendum in which East Timor
voted to split from Indonesia in 1999.


Former prime minister Mari Alkatiri has alleged the new CNRT
party was deliberately given a misleading name to confuse and
deceive voters.


Lu-Olo said he had received approval to deliver his own
television message in his capacity as parliament speaker.


In the message, he urged people to avoid violence and provocation
"and if you find people using violence to disrupt the election
you should inform the police."


Fretilin retains a solid base of support but has been criticised
for a lack of political openess and the use of intimidation.


A UN-appointed certification team, set up last year to help
develop a fair and transparent poll, said Saturday it could not
vouch for the integrity of the election process.

