

Rafa Benitez claims he will not be resting any players in
Liverpool's Champions League clash with PSV Eindhoven on
Wednesday.


Benitez believes the tie is still not dead despite Liverpool's
3-0 lead and he will not leave out Steven Gerrard to give his
captain a much-needed break.


The Reds boss saw his side take a step towards securing a third-
place finish in the Premiership with a 2-1 win at Reading on
Saturday.


And Benitez is determined to keep the momentum going against the
Dutch in the quarter-final second leg at Anfield.


"If we get a few goals ahead I might make some changes to the
team, but the tie is still not over and we still have a lot to
do," he said.


"Players like Steven Gerrard and Steve Finnan have played a lot
of games recently and it would be good to give them a rest, but
if I do that people say Steven is not happy about being dropped.


"It is a very important part of the season and we need all of our
best players on the pitch for the important matches."


Benitez also thinks Spain midfielder Xavi Alonso will be fit in
time to face PSV. "Xavi has a slight groin injury that needed a
bit of rest and hopefully he will be OK for the game against
Eindhoven," he said.


"I did not want to risk him today as he was still feeling it a
bit but he should be alright for the coming big games.


"If we can win these games and get into the top four and the
Champions League final that would be great and that is what we
are aiming for."


Goals from Alvaro Arbelo and substitute Dirk Kuyt were enough to
beat Reading who have not won a game since February 10, a winless
run of seven matches.


This was Liverpool's third victory in a row and they are looking
in ominous form as they battle to reach a second Champions league
Final in three years.


Benitez made five changes from the PSV game, bringing in Mark
Gonzalez, Craig Bellamy, Mo Sissoko, Arbeloa and Sami Hypia.


Kuyt, suspended for next Wednesday's game, dropped to the bench
to be replaced by Bellamy.


Left-back Arbeloa opened the scoring with a crisp 20-yard finish
for his first ever senior goal when he latched on to Peter
Crouch's deft flick.


Reading equalised in the 46th minute through captain Ivar
Ingimasson who blasted home Stephen Hunt's cross.


Benitez made his first change on 50 minutes bringing on Dirk Kuyt
for the ineffectual Bellamy, who petulantly stomped off the
pitch.


Kuyt scored both of the goals in Liverpool's 2-0 victory over
Reading in November and added pace and power to his side.


Dutch international Kuyt won the game for Liverpool with a firm
header from eight yards from Pennant's deft cross.


Substitute John Arne Riise came close to adding a third, but
Hahnemann made a fine block from his 20-yard shot and pushed it
round the post in injury time.


Reading boss Steve Coppell thought his side deserved something
out of the game. "I felt we competed well all over the pitch and
if we had taken one or two opportunities we could have won this
game," he said.


"We are on a bad run, but we will keep working hard until we get
out of it. That is the only thing we can do."

