

The political crisis in Ukraine intensified on Sunday as
President Viktor Yushchenko vowed to press ahead with early
elections in a fighting speech aimed at his rebellious prime
minister.


In a televised Easter message late Saturday, Yushchenko accused
his opponents, led by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, of trying
to impose "tyranny" and "managed democracy" in Ukraine.


The president on Monday ordered the dissolution of parliament and
early elections for May 27, triggering a defiant response from
the pro-Russian prime minister and bringing thousands of
protesters into the streets of Kiev.


"My decision is legitimate and constitutional and there will be
no going back," pro-West Yushchenko said in the Easter speech,
delivered from outside the Saint Sophia church in central Kiev.


His rival Yanukovych also issued an Easter message posted on the
government website on Sunday in which he expressed confidence
that the crisis "will be successfully resolved through democracy
and supremacy of the law."


Tens of thousands of Yanukovych supporters have protested in the
capital of this former Soviet republic over the past week and
hundreds have kept up a round-the- clock vigil outside the
parliament.


"We want the country to live normally," Irina Perminova, a
protest organiser, said on Sunday as activists celebrated Easter
in their tent city with special "paska" cakes blessed by an
Orthodox priest.


Nadya, a 19-year-old from Sumy region in northern Ukraine, said
she had been given an Easter cake by her parents before taking
the train to Kiev. "We're happy here. We cleaned up the tents and
then we broke fast," Nadya said.


Around her hung placards reading: "The Dissolution of Parliament
is a Betrayal of the People!" and "We are For Stability and
Peace!"


Critics have accused the president of mounting a coup by
illegally cancelling the results of 2006 parliamentary elections
deemed fair by international observers.


Yushchenko in turn accuses pro-Russian forces in parliament, led
by Yanukovych's Regions party, of acting against the constitution
by trying to lure pro-Western deputies over to their camp.


Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday voiced "great concern"
to Yushchenko in a telephone conversation about the possible
negative economic effects of the crisis and called for
"constructive dialogue."


The European Union and the United States have also voiced
concern.


Ukraine's constitutional court is to meet this week to examine
the legality of Yushchenko's decision to dissolve parliament, but
a final ruling could take up to a month.


Both sides say a court victory in their favour could bring
criminal prosecutions for the other side.


The crisis comes after months of rising tensions between
Yanukovych, who favours strong ties with Russia, and Yushchenko,
who came to power in 2005 promising closer relations with the
West.


The two first faced off in 2004 presidential elections initially
granted to Yanukovych, but then deemed fraudulent after mass
protests known as the Orange Revolution.


Korrespondent, a weekly news magazine, said on Saturday that the
crisis "could end with a civil confrontation or a return to
authoritarianism. The third way is elections."


Protesters in Kiev have also appealed for unity in a country that
is growing increasingly polarised between the mostly Russian-
speaking east and the predominantly Ukrainian-speaking west.


"I've had enough of living in an unstable country," Nadezhda
Bychenko, a 48 -year-old mother of three from the city of
Kirovograd in southeast Ukraine, said on Saturday.


Many Ukrainians have expressed disillusionment with Yushchenko
over his failure to deliver on promises of a better economic
future.

