

Gordon Strachan believes Derek Riordan can be a big hit at Celtic
after he fired them a step closer to the Scottish Premier League
title on Saturday.


The former Hibs forward came off the substitute's bench to score
the only goal of the game to hand Celtic a vital 1-0 victory at
home to Motherwell - and take them within three points of their
second consecutive championship.


After failing to win in their last three SPL matches - with
defeats against Rangers and Falkirk and a draw with Dundee United
- Riordan's goal was a huge relief to the Celtic support eager to
finally clinch the title.


A win away to Kilmarnock on Sunday, April 22, will confirm the
league trophy will stay at Celtic Park - although the Parkhead
club could also be crowned champions on Sunday, April 8 if St
Mirren win at home to Rangers.


Riordan has failed to win a regular starting place with Celtic,
since making the move from Hibs in the summer, but Strachan
believes he has all the characteristics to make the big time.


The Celtic manager said: "I keep hearing rumours about Derek's
lifestyle but he recently ran away from trouble to make sure he
didn't get involved. He still got stick for that which could only
happen here.


"But he is as good a professional as I have worked with and his
time on the sidelines will do him good in the long run.


"A lot of players have came here and taken awhile to settle and
this experience will do him a lot of good.


"Saturday's game got a bit nervy after we missed a few early
chances but when he came on he was the only player I thought 'he
could do something here'.


"So I'm pleased for him, I'm really pleased for him."


Strachan believes it was injury which prevented Riordan getting
more first team games rather than not being given a chance.


He said: "You have to remember Derek did get a run of games,
scored some great goals and I was thinking, 'yes he's into the
fold now', but then he got a calf injury.


"When he was out we were winning games and it wasn't much of a
problem and when he came back I had to give the other guys a fair
crack of the whip."


Strachan feels the reason his side have been struggling to cross
the SPL finish line is due to the fact most of them have never
won a league title before.


He said: "Only Neil Lennon, Artur Boruc and Jan Vennegoor of
Hesselink have experience of winning titles so it's a new
experience for the majority of the team.


"Hopefully we will win the league and it will stand them in good
stead for the future.


"I remember playing for Aberdeen and having some right nervy
games when we were trying to win the league and that is what six
or seven of them are going through just now.


"In the long term it will be good for them - as long as we win
it."


In Saturday's game Riordan had replaced Polish international
Maciej Zurawski, who limped off with a calf injury in the 35th
minute, and scored the only goal of the game in the 52nd minute.


Japanese playmaker Shunsuke Nakamura's cross was headed back
across goal by Dutch international Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink and
Riordan slid in to poke the ball home from close range.

