

The world's biggest gas exporting countries gather in Doha on
Monday to discuss proposals to form a cartel -- an idea that has
consumer nations worried even if it does not appear imminent.


The two-day Gas Exporting Countries Forum will be hosted by
Qatar, a key US ally that aspires to eventually become the
world's top exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG).


Founded in 2001, GECF is an informal structure grouping 15
countries. It includes Russia, Iran, Qatar, Venezuela and
Algeria, which together control 72 percent of world reserves and
42 percent of production.


Until now, its activities have remain limited, and it has not
even met since 2005.


The Doha meeting, the sixth since the GECF was founded, will
focus mainly on the possibility of forming a cartel along the
lines of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries.


The idea of a "gas OPEC," favoured by Iran in particular, gained
momentum in August last year when Europe's two main natural gas
suppliers, Gazprom of Russia and Algeria's Sonatrach, signed a
partnership accord.


It was given a further boost in February when Russian President
Vladimir Putin, whose country's massive gas resources account for
nearly 30 percent of known world reserves and 20 percent of
production, said it was "interesting."


Western European countries are concerned that Moscow might gain
leverage over consumers by coordinating supplies with other gas-
rich nations.


But Russia's energy minister Friday poured scorn on suggestions
that gas exporters would announce the creation of a "gas OPEC,"
saying that Russia would never take part in such an organisation.


"Are we going to sign up to a (gas) price policy? Of course not,"
Industry and Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko told a news
conference.


"We have not had, we have not and we will not have such an
objective of taking part in such a relationship against anyone,"
he said.


The meeting in Doha would be about "how to make the functioning
of the Forum more effective" and "reinforcing cooperation"
between members, he said.


"For Russia, it is very important to use this possibility to put
in place a global energy dialogue."


The International Energy Agency warned in February that a gas
cartel would reduce demand and hurt producers.


"A cartel is always bad news for consumers and consumer
countries," the IEA said, adding that "cartels are also
counterproductive for producing countries."


"Pushing up prices by forming a cartel will encourage consumers
to reduce demand or switch to other fuels."


On Thursday, however, IEA head Claude Mandil said he believed the
gas producers would struggle to form a successful "gas OPEC."


"I don't see how it could be possible to transpose to the gas
market the mechanism that OPEC has achieved in the oil market, so
I am not very concerned," Mandil told AFP on the sidelines of an
oil industry conference in Paris.


Analysts say the structure and technical limitations of the gas
market are not conducive to price fixing. Sales are generally
negotiated under long-term contracts, running to 15 or 20 years.


Moreover, the market is regionalised -- unlike crude oil, gas is
difficult to transport. It has to be distributed by underground
pipelines or by ship, in which case it must be liquefied.


Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev was quoted by the Spanish
daily El Pais on Monday as saying the creation of such a cartel
was not imminent.


"We talk about this, and amongst gas producing countries the
desire exists for it, but I believe we will not arrive at the
creation of a gas OPEC for the moment," he said.


Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has also said that the
idea is "worth examining by all interested parties."


Qatari Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah said his
country would examine the proposition of creating a cartel and
see how the participants "perceive the cooperation," he told AFP.


But for Qatar's deputy minister for foreign affairs, Mohammed al-
Roumaihi, "the idea of a gas OPEC is before all political."


"It was suggested by President Putin, whose country has specific
strategic objectives," he told AFP.


The UK-based research group Oxford Business Group said Qatar --
home to two US military bases -- would avoid any confrontation
with Washington, which opposes Russian attempts to reinforce its
geopolitical influence by means of its natural resources.

