

The leader of the world's Anglicans was to deliver his annual
Easter sermon Sunday, urging people to take heed of the Christian
holiday's central message of forgiveness and reconciliation.


Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams was to tell the
congregation at Canterbury Cathedral, southeast England, that
acknowledging wrong-doing, error and understanding alternative
perspectives were vital to promote peace.


"Going forward requires us all to learn a measure of openness to
discover things about ourselves we did not know, seeing ourselves
through the eyes of another," he was to say, according to
extracts released by his office in advance.


"What they see may be fair or unfair, but it is a reality that
has been driving someone's reactions and decisions. We'd better
listen, hateful and humiliating though it may be for us."


Williams, the most senior cleric in the Church of England, was to
highlight progress in the Northern Ireland peace process, which
last month saw rival Protestants and Catholics agree to share
power for the first time.


Reconciliation between the two communities in the British-run
province after three decades of violence has finally allowed
people on both sides of the sectarian divide to hear each other's
opinions and stories.


"Everyone in this history made decisions, some shockingly evil,
some tragic, some foolish. Those decisions and the sufferings
that came from them don't have the power to tell you what
decisions you have to make today," he was to say.


Williams was also to recall his visit to the Solomon Islands in
2004, when a leader caught up in the civil war there admitted
publicly his responsibility in the violence.


In doing so, he made the first step towards reconciliation, he
was to add.


The archbishop called on people to "step towards your neighbour"
as Christians commemorated the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
three days after his crucifixion.


"When in our world we are faced with the terrible deadlocks of
mutual hatred and suspicion, with rival stories of suffering and
atrocity, we have to pray for this resurrection message to be
heard," he was to say.

