

Igor Przybylski is a class above other train-spotters.


Not only does the 33-year-old Polish artist photograph and film
trains, from inside the driver's cockpit or from a trackside
vantage point, but he also records their noise and paints them on
huge canvasses or straight onto gallery walls.


Przybylski does buses, too.


He has an exhibition in Warsaw until April 22 of the rickety
Hungarian-built Ikarus buses that have plied the capital's
streets since as long as he can remember.


The exhibition, at a small gallery opposite the residence of
Polish President Lech Kaczynski, features a large wall-painting
of a yellow-and-red Ikarus bus, video loops of Ikarus buses, an
Ikarus bus simulator computer game, and recordings of "The Best
of Igor Przybylski."


To the untrained ear, the recordings are a cacophony of rumbling
engines, exhaust pipes, passengers entering and exiting, doors
creaking open and slamming shut.


But Przybylski insists: "Some people hear music in the sounds of
the buses."


Przybylski mounted the Warsaw show, called Ikarus Total, as a
tribute to the ageing vehicles that have been a constant on roads
in Poland throughout its turbulent recent history, but are now
teetering at the edge of the scrap heap.


"Ikarus buses are very special to me because I remember them from
the first days that I lived in Warsaw, in 1982-83. It was a state
of war in Poland...


"I remember how the new buses back then stank. I noticed a lot of
very strange things -- the colour, the smell," he said.


Poland was in the grips of martial law from the end of 1981 until
1983, imposed by the then-communist regime in a bid to crush the
fledgling Solidarity trade union.


"Then when I was finishing elementary school, it was the
'changing of the system' in 1989. This year was very good for
Ikarus because we received about 200 new Ikaruses that year.


"Three years ago we joined the united Europe and the same buses
were carrying me as during the state of war 20 years ago."


Poland shed communism in 1989, elected Solidarity founder Lech
Walesa as its first democratic president the following year, and
joined the European Union in May 2004.


Ikaruses ran throughoput, but may soon disappear from the
country's pot-holed roads forever, which is why Przybylski
mounted the exhibition -- to try to preserve their memory.


Przybylski's works have been shown in Germany, Hungary, Slovakia,
Sweden and the United States, as well as his native Poland.


He has undertaken a variety of projects, using different media,
and waxes lyrical about works that might appear mundane to those
not immersed in the art of train- and bus-spotting.


From 2001 to 2003, he painted the registration numbers on 14
locomotives in Warsaw.


"These locomotives looked identical except for their numbers. I
was thinking: what can I do to underline their individuality, and
I thought I could paint their numbers, each with a unique set of
colours," he explained to AFP.


"This one was white on green and now it's green on light green. I
signed each number plaque and dated it.


"This was an exhibition without limits. You never knew when you
would see it. Last year, I saw one of my locomotives near the
Baltic Sea," he said over chocolate biscuits and Polish mineral
water at his tiny studio near the Vistula River, as a projector
clicked through a digital slide show of his works.


In 2003, Przybylski rifled through rubbish bins and picked up
discarded public transport tickets in Lodz, to make a mosaic with
14,000 yellow, white and red tickets.


Another time, he put on a sound and light show, based on his
experience in the cockpit of a locomotive.


"A friend let me drive his locomotive at night. For about two
minutes I recorded the sound as I went from zero to 120
kilometres (74 miles) per hour. It was a very nice sound," he
said.


He put on a show where "the people saw what I saw when I was
driving the locomotive, only the colours I saw in the cockpit. I
saw nothing outside, only green or red signal lights."


He is now working on a video montage of snapshots showing
Poland's roads through the seasons.


"I started filming before Poland joined the EU and finished one
year ago," he said, giving AFP a sneak preview of the work, which
gives a feel for the passage of time as the pictures melt into
each other and of the captivating variety of the Polish
countryside.


Przybylski was once detained at the Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris,
but was later released and allowed to take snaps of trains "when
they understood I was not a terrorist."


Similar things have happened in Poland.


"Foolish people phone the police and say there is a terrorist
sitting by the train tracks with a camera," he said.


During a visit to Brussels last year, he was inspired by Pieter
Brueghel's winter paintings to put together his own winter
landscapes -- featuring trains.


"I'm not just an artist in the studio. I'm an artist all the
time. I'm like a hunter -- art, trains and buses are my life," he
said.


Having immortalised Poland's iconic buses and trains, and even
done photo montages of cars, like Trabants and Ladas, built in
former communist countries, perhaps Przybylski will seek
inspiration in the trams that wend their way round the Polish
capital?


"I don't like the tramway," he said bluntly.


"To me, it's something like a transvestite - not a train and not
a bus."

