

Stuart Appleby squandered a three-stroke lead on a nightmare 17th
hole but still led the Masters after three rounds and took
confidence into Sunday despite the devastation.


Appleby fired a one-over par 73 here Saturday and clung to a one-
stroke lead over 12-time major champion Tiger Woods and England's
Justin Rose after 54 holes at the year's first major
championship.


Trying to become the first Australian to win the Masters after
six runner-up showings by the boys from Down Under, Appleby's
score is the highest to ever lead the Masters after three rounds
thanks to a triple bogey at the par-4 17th.


"I was disappointed I lost so many shots on that hole. I had to
move on. Spilled milk," said the 35-year-old who hit golf balls
around his family dairy farm once his childhood chores were done.


"Stuff like that happens out here. I will come out of the day
very good. I felt confident. I played confident. It was a tough
day. The course was a tough opponent. It will be a tough opponent
tomorrow."


Appleby, who shared second last week in defense of his Houston
Open title, made birdies at the second, third and fourth holes
and nursed pars around a cold and windy Augusta National before
disaster struck.


"It was a real fight out there. There's just no way to make 3 or
4 under out there. Those days seem to be a long part of history
at this tournament," said Appleby.


"It's just so demanding. We've never seen anything like this with
the cold, the greens so firm. There were bogeys around the corner
constantly. This course is just ready to slap you in the head if
you do anything wrong.


"It's going to be a battle of attrition for sure."


Appleby comes well armed for that. He owns the course record of
50 holes in a row without a bogey starting with the fifth hole in
2001 when he made a run of 45 pars and five birdies.


Tomorrow is going to be very difficult," Appleby said. "At least
we all know what we are in for. We are supposed to get another
cold one.


"You almost get lucky to get the right club in your hand. You
just want to avoid leaving yourself a long putt. The greens are
just lightning fast."


Appleby missed the cut here in five of 10 prior starts, his best
finish being a share of 19th last year. His best major showings
were a share of second at the 2002 British Open and fourth at the
2000 PGA Championship.


Aussies have won every other major but Appleby could help ease
the memories of Greg Norman's heartbreak history, including a
blown six-stroke lead in the last round of 1996 and a Larry Mize
playoff chip-in win 20 years ago.


Some omens point his way. The Masters winner has come from the
final group each of the past 16 years and Woods, while 12-for-12
in majors when leading after 54 holes, has never won one when not
at least sharing the 54-hole lead.


"I'll just plod along, do what I've been doing the last few days.
I'm not going to get wrapped up in it," Appleby said.


"There's a lot of work left to do. It's 18 holes but honestly
it's a lot more than that."


"It's a real mind game. I told myself I'm just playing golf
that's that all I'm doing. My putting has improved, a bit more
comfortable onthe greens. That's the big battle really. Getting
more comfortable out here is so hard to do.


"It will be a real fight. It will be tough for me, tough for
everybody. What I'm going to focus on is enjoying myself."


Appleby said the course was hard but fair.


"It's set up right on the safe limit of tournament play. They're
not doing anything silly. It's not funky by any means," he said.
"It's just a real test. It's a joy to play."

