

Thailand's decision to ban the video-sharing site YouTube
highlights how aggressively the kingdom has tried to rein in the
media since the military coup last year, analysts said.


YouTube has been unavailable in Thailand since Wednesday, after
Thai authorities blocked it over videos deemed offensive to the
nation's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej.


In the nearly seven months since the ouster of prime minister
Thaksin Shinawatra, the military has also blacked out
international news broadcasts, seized a private television
station, and blocked political websites.


"The censorship of the media has expanded dramatically,"
political analyst Thitinan Pongsudhirak said.


Thailand has a long history of military rule, but the last time
Thailand had a coup was in 1991, when the revolution in
communication was still in its infancy.


Censors now face a much more difficult job, as critics of the
regime use technology to find new ways to get their message out.


"The ways that they can challenge the system has multiplied. They
can do it on video clips on YouTube, on email, on text messaging
on cell phones," Thitinan said.


"Now censorship is very difficult, because they're being
overwhelmed by communication technology," Thitinan said.


Immediately after taking power, the military gave itself broad
powers of censorship and dispatched armed soldiers to TV
newsrooms to watch over the news broadcasts.


The soldiers left the newsrooms after a few weeks, but the
military-installed government last month seized control of the
only private station in Thailand.


The government took over iTV after the broadcaster failed to pay
a 100 billion baht (2.8 billion dollar) fine after losing a court
battle over the terms of its concessions.


Media rights groups complained that authorities did not even
consider less dramatic ways of settling the dispute.


The military has also issued sharp warnings to newspapers against
reporting too heavily on Thaksin, while sometimes blacking out
news about the coup or the deposed premier on CNN and BBC.


"The impulse for suppression remains strong in Thailand. I think
it's from the years of dictatorship," said David Streckfuss, an
historian of the Thai monarchy.


The YouTube controversy struck an especially emotive chord here
because it centres on King Bhumibol, whom many Thais believe is
semi-divine.


The scandal also tapped into royalist sensitivities among the
coup-makers, who sought and received the king's blessing for the
coup.


Paul Handley -- whose biography of the monarch, "The King Never
Smiles", is banned here -- said the video clips on YouTube seemed
designed to stir controversy.


"It's deliberately meant to make people upset," said Handley, now
an AFP correspondent in Washington.


Clips posted on the site showed crudely altered photos of the
king, sometimes next to pictures of feet -- which are deeply
offensive in Thailand -- or in explicit sexual images.


"The idea of putting a picture of someone's feet over the king's
head, you wouldn't think of doing that in another country. But in
Thailand it's a grand insult," Handley said.


Such offensive imagery is unheard of in Thailand, where the
monarch is rarely spoken about in anything less than the most
glowing language.


That's due in part to the genuine respect that he has earned from
many Thais during his six decades on the throne, but also due to
the strict lese majeste law that punishes anyone deemed to have
offended him with up to 15 years in prison.


Just days before the first clip appeared on YouTube, a Thai court
sentenced a Swiss man to 10 years in prison for vandalising
portraits of the king during a drunken spree in December.


CJ Hinke, coordinator of the group Freedom Against Censorship
Thailand, said some 45,000 websites have been blocked in
Thailand. Most are pornographic, but the government also targets
sites critical of the king or supportive of the deposed Thaksin.


"I think that it's complete ludicrous. Everyone in Thailand loves
the king, and to think that opinion would change because of a
website is ridiculous," he said.

