

Stylish batsman Mohammad Ashraful finally bridged the gap between
potential and performance with his brisk half-century in
Bangladesh's shock win over South Africa in the World Cup.


He has often come under fire for performing much below his
potential since making a dream debut against Sri Lanka in 2001
when he became the youngest-ever batsman at 17 to score a Test
century.


Just when Bangladesh believed that they had found a gem, they
were in for a disappointment as Ashraful could never maintain the
consistency required to become a great player.


Ashraful is an enigma. He is a spectators' delight when in flow
and capable of dominating any attack on any surface with a wide
range of attacking shots.


But he has not done justice to his talent, throwing his wicket
away in a bid to play one shot too many early in his innings.


Bangladesh were fortunate to find Ashraful in good touch on
Saturday as the middle-order batsman hammered an 83-ball 87 with
12 fours to help his side post a challenging 251-8 against South
Africa in a Super Eights match here.


The total was good enough to put pressure on South Africa, who
were bowled out for 184 to suffer their first-ever defeat against
Bangladesh in one-day internationals.


"It's a great feeling because South Africa are number one in the
world," said Ashraful, named man of the match.


"I played good cricket and I was thinking that if I stay at the
wicket then I have a good chance of scoring big. I played some
improvised shots because I like these shots and have practised
them a lot back home.


"I can realise the mood in Bangladesh. They love cricket and it
will be an unbelievable feeling for them."


This was not the first time Ashraful had played an important
innings in his team's victory over a big side.


Ricky Ponting's Australians will not easily forget Ashraful, who
cracked a 101-ball 100 with 11 fours to script his team's upset
five-wicket victory in a triangular series match at Cardiff in
2005.


It remains his only hundred in 96 one-day internationals and his
team's only win over the formidable Australians.


Ashraful has already given his fans plenty to cheer about in both
Tests and one- dayers with his exciting stroke-play.


He was only a teenager when he grabbed the headlines with a
brilliant hundred against a strong Sri Lankan attack at Colombo
six years ago, using his feet remarkably well against ace off-
spinner Muttiah Muralitharan.


It was India's turn to suffer in 2004 when Ashraful treated their
seamers and spinners with disdain in his career-best 158 not out
in the second and final Test at Chittagong.


Ashraful batted as if he was playing in a one-dayer, hitting
three sixes and 24 fours in his 194-ball knock.


"I never think about the bowlers when I am batting. I just watch
the deliveries," said the 22-year-old.


He said his team needed a big win in the second round to boost
their confidence ahead of the remaining three matches against
England, the West Indies and debutants Ireland.


"When we scored 250, we thought we could win," said Ashraful.


"We need this kind of victory. We came to the Super Eights and
did not do well in the initial matches. Now we have three games
remaining and if we play well, we have a good chance."

