

People close to a Japanese man kidnapped a week ago in Paraguay
want his captors to send proof that he is still alive before they
pay his ransom, police said Saturday.


Hirokazu Ota, 62, the head of Sun Myung Moon's Unification
Church, and his secretary were seized on April 1 in Caaguazu,
about 200 kilometers (120 miles) east of the capital, Asuncion.


"The problem is that we do not have proof of life," a police
spokesman who requested anonymity told AFP. "The situation is
difficult under these circumstances."


The kidnappers have demanded a 500,000 dollar ransom.


The investigation has been "paralyzed" since Wednesday, when
police last heard from the kidnappers, the spokesman said.


The lack of contact has increased the uncertainty over the fate
of the two Japanese and a Paraguayan couple -- police officer
Rafael Balmori and his girlfriend Olegaria Jimenez -- who were
kidnapped at the same time.


Ota's secretary has been identified here as Sawako Takayama,
although reports in Japan gave her family name as Yamaguchi.


The lack of communication is typical at this stage of a
kidnapping as the captors seek to press relatives to pay the
ransom after the next contact, said police spokesman Nestor
Mendez.


Relatives of the kidnapped police officer fear that he has been
killed, but Mendez ruled out any killings so far.


An elite police unit has focused its attention on Paraguay's
border area with Brazil and Argentina, 330 kilometers (205 miles)
east of Asuncion, Mendez said.


Police stepped up road patrols Thursday and Friday, especially on
the road leading to the triple-border town of Ciudad del Este.
Investigators believe the kidnappers may have taken advantage of
heavy traffic during Easter to move to a safer location.


Investigators suspect that highly trained former police officers
who were fired for breach of duty might be behind the
kidnappings.


Japanese consular officials are closely monitoring the probe.


Ota, who has lived in Paraguay for 10 years, is the president of
Victoria SA, a company that manages land assets in Paraguay owned
by other members of the South Korea-based church.

