

Politicians in troubled East Timor called for peace and expressed
hope Monday's presidential election would be fair, as the
faithful in the Catholic nation thronged churches for Easter
Sunday mass.


President Xanana Gusmao, the former guerrilla leader who is not
seeking re- election, appealed in a radio broadcast for a vote
free of bloodshed or coercion amid fears for the election's
credibility.


"Don't use intimidation, don't use violence to force people to
vote for your candidate or other candidates," he said. "I ask all
the candidates in the name of society to accept the result of the
election heartfully."


Gusmao handed ballot boxes to a polling booth in the capital
Dili, where the cathedral was packed. Some worshippers spilled
outside the building, including some of the thousands of refugees
still displaced following violence last year.


That unrest killed at least 37 people and displaced 150,000.
Australian-led peacekeepers landed to restore order after the
crisis, the worst since East Timor's independence in 2002
following a bloody split from Indonesia.


About 37,000 people are still displaced.


Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, one of eight candidates standing for
the largely ceremonial post of president and a contender to win,
said that he did not expect a fair election in the impoverished
former Portuguese colony.


"It's difficult to expect any free and fair process," he said
after mass. "I hope that UN police and other defence forces from
Australia and New Zealand can work hard to guarantee at least a
peaceful day tomorrow."


Lasama, the chairman of the opposition Democratic Party, was one
of four candidates who on Friday said they feared there had been
many attempts to manipulate the election process.


East Timor's Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, who was seen as the
frontrunner but is now in a three-way race with Lasama and ruling
Fretilin party chairman Fransisco Guterres, said the country had
reached a crossroads.


"It's a very important moment," the Nobel peace laureate said.
"We will have to follow the leader we are going to choose and
help him so he can do this task better in the next five years."


Major Alfredo Reinado, a hunted renegade soldier criticised for
his role in last year's bloody violence, urged voters to ditch
East Timor's political establishment, including Ramos-Horta,
Gusmao and the Fretilin party.


"If you choose them, the crisis is going to carry on. They have
to be consigned to history," he said in a printed statement.


But the fugitive, who it was feared could destabilise Monday's
vote but remained silent during the campaign, added: "We have to
respect democracy with unity, peace and calm."

