

South African President Thabo Mbeki's mission to resolve the
crisis across the border in Zimbabwe faces slim prospects of
success due to deep-rooted suspicion between the protagonists,
analysts say.


Mbeki was entrusted with the task by fellow southern African
leaders at a summit last month to broker talks between the
opposition and President Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe African
National Union Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) party.


Sources close to the opposition Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC) said Mbeki had already begun paving the way by setting up a
five-strong team to draft the ground rules for the negotiations.


In an interview last week, Mbeki acknowledged that there was
ultimately little he could do if neither side wanted the
mediation to work.


"The only way to deal with these problems and the only way to
achieve results is if we encourage the Zimbabwean political
parties to engage with one another ... Whether we succeed or not
is up to the Zimbabwean leadership," he told the Financial Times


"None of us in the region has any power to force the Zimbabweans
to agree."


Both Mugabe and MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai have given their
approval to Mbeki's intervention but Zimbabwe commentators have
voiced deep scepticism about him getting results given the
mistrust and issues to be tackled.


"The prospects are a mixed bag, the outcome is likely to be half-
baked," said University of Zimbabwe political scientist John
Makumbe.


Political scientist Eldred Masunungure said the enmity between
the MDC and ZANU- PF could be an insurmountable hurdle,
especially in the wake of a recent crackdown on the opposition
which saw Tsvangirai arrested and assaulted.


The latest violence "deepened the mistrust and suspicion and that
is a major stumbling block," said Masunungure.


While the onus would be on Mbeki to craft confidence-building
measures, analysts believe the South African president may not
himself be widely trusted by the opposition given his reluctance
to criticise Mugabe.


"Mbeki himself is a source of suspicion by the MDC," said
Masunugure.


"Previously they did not see him as an honest and impartial
broker and he may be seen as part of the problem by the MDC."


Makumbe agreed that "the other hurdle is Mbeki."


"He has not yet said he has abandoned his quiet diplomacy policy
and that will be a major drawback," said Makumbe.


Most of the three million Zimbabweans to have fled their country
in the wake of an economic meltdown, which has seen inflation
climb to 1,730 percent and unemployment at 80 percent, have
crossed over to South Africa.


While Levy Mwanawasa, president of Zimbabwe's northern Zambia,
has said the "quiet diplomacy" policy has not delivered, Mbeki is
sticking to his guns.


"Mbeki can't afford to handle the parties with kids' gloves any
more, while the economy continues to break down and human rights
violations escalate," said Makumbe.


Experts say issues that need to be addressed include opposition
demands for a new democratic constitution and a credible
electoral body to oversee presidential and parliamentary
elections next year. Mugabe, Africa's oldest leader at 83, was
recently chosen as ZANU-PF's candidate.


They also say the electoral roll needs to be revamped, with
hundreds of thousands of potential voters absent from the list.


Such demands are likely to be met with resistance by ZANU-PF who
analysts say have used the present system to ensure victory.


"I don't think that ZANU-PF will like to dig their own grave by
accepting," conditions for free and fair polls, according to
Masunungure.


Takavafira Zhou, a lecturer at southern Zimbabwe's Masvingo
university, doubted Mbeki would ever be prepared to get tough
with the notoriously stubborn Mugabe.


"I don't think that he will succeed, because African leaders see
President Mugabe as a champion of pan-Africanism and not as a
crocodile liberator and an autocrat."

