

Descendants of Iraq's ancient Assyrians are enjoying 12 days of
parties and parades to celebrate their New Year, a pagan rite
that glorifies resurrection and life and dates back millennia.


Forget 2007 -- this is 6757 for Assyrian Christians whose
ancestors carved the cradle of civilisation, ruling the
magnificent Assyrian and Babylonian empires before scattering
into an ever-dwindling minority across the Middle East.


Flocking to the relative haven of Iraqi Kurdistan rather than the
ancient capitals of Nineveh and Babylon, which are awash with
violence in modern-day Iraq, Assyrians began the most important
event in their calendar on April 1.


Wearing colourful traditional dress, men, women and children
parade through the streets and dance, hailing the arrival of
spring, budding trees and blossoming flowers in early seasonal
warmth before the punishing heat of summer.


"We will celebrate for 12 days as we did in Babylon and Ashur,"
said Nissan Beghazi, chairman of the Assyrian Cultural Centre in
the city of Dohuk, which is this year a focal point of
celebrations for the first time.


Officially banned by successive regimes in Baghdad, including
under the late Saddam Hussein, Assyrian Christians in northern
Iraq have openly celebrated their new year in autonomous
Kurdistan since the 1991 Gulf War.


"Celebrations are being held in Dohuk with people coming from
Baghdad, Mosul and Kirkuk. For security reasons it was difficult
to do that on the Nineveh plain," said Akad Murad, spokesman for
the Assyrian Democratic Movement.


The festivities began on April 1 with a parade outside the Virgin
Mary Church in Dohuk -- a far cry from the private and secretive
manner in which Assyrians say greetings were exchanged under
Saddam.


Holding flags and colourful feather plumes, men in black hats
thronged the streets with women kitted out in traditional beaded
headdress and flowered dresses, as onlookers and their children
looked on.


The traditional line-up also includes parties and gathering to
listen to poets who recite the story of creation.


Another custom still practised in Chaldean-Assyrian villages is
planting wheat or barley seeds in vases some weeks before April,
putting them on the window sill, and watching seedlings grow as a
symbol of new life.


"After the March 1991 uprising, our people resumed celebrations
on this historic day after years. In 1992, the Kurdish parliament
decreed April 1 an official holiday, but it hasn't been
implemented," said Berghazi.


But behind the festivities lie fears for the future in a country
where mass emigration has badly hit the Christian minority that
enjoyed a relatively protected status under Saddam.


"Our celebrations this year come with our people facing killings,
kidnappings and displacement. Our cultured and skilled people are
facing the brunt of this violence," said a statement from the so-
called Mesopotamia Federation.


Mass emigration has seen Iraq's Christian community slump to
around 600,000 out of a total population of 27 million.


The same Christian organisation also expressed hope that
Christian migrants would return one day to live with the rest of
their Iraqi brethren in peace.


Two elderly Christian women, one in her 80s and the other in her
60s, were shot dead when gunmen broke into their house in Kirkuk
late last month in the restive northern oil capital.


Until the Assyrians converted to Christianity in the first
century and accepted the Gregorian calendar, they celebrated on
March 21 -- a date still marked by Kurds and Arabs, and Iranians
as new year or the start of spring.

