

Inter Milan's 11-match winning run away from home came to a halt
at Reggina on Saturday when Roberto Mancini's Italian league
leaders could only manage a 0-0 draw.


Unbeaten Inter's amazing record -- 25 wins and five draws in the
league this season -- has meant a draw is seen as a failure but
they no doubt found solace in their 18-point lead with eight
matches to go.


Second-placed AS Roma gained some ground with their 2-0 victory
against Catania and third-placed Lazio also clamied three points
in a 1-0 home win against Messina but they are still 25 points
behind Inter.


The fall-out from the Italian match-fixing scandal saw Juventus
stripped of the 2005-06 title, while second-placed AC Milan were
deducted 30 points.


With no Juve this season and AC Milan given an eight-point
penalty, there has been a certain amount of inevitability about
Inter's championship stroll.


The last time Inter failed to win on an away ground was a 0-0
draw at Udinese at the end of October.


However with first-choice players Patrick Vieira, Brazilian
Maxwell, Dejan Stankovic and Zlatan Ibrahimovic missing and
Reggina fighting relegation, there was no shame in the result.
Julio Cruz and Olivier Dacourt particularly had good chances to
find the net in the second half.


Roma's Francesco Tavano and Mirko Vucinic were on target in their
win against Catania which was played at a neutral venue because
Catania's stadium has not come up to safety requirements.


Roma even rested a number of their first choice players with
their biggest match of the season so far in three days time
against Manchester United in the Champions League quarter-final,
second leg. They won 2-1 at home in the first fixture.


Of the 11 Roma players who started against Catania, only two are
almost certain to start the match at Old Trafford -- defender
Philippe Mexes and midfielder David Pizarro. Francesco Totti,
Brazilian Doni, Rodrigo Taddei and Cristian Chivu did not play
and Brazilian Mancini, Daniele De Rossi, and Christian Panucci
came on as substitutes.


It was Roma's first away victory since beating Torino 2-1 13
matches ago.


AS Roma's city rivals Lazio managed to win their eighth
consecutive match following Guglielmo Stendardo's strike on the
stroke of half-time against Messina at the Olympic stadium.
Lazio's late-season charge looks set to earn them Champions
League football next season.


Early-season leaders Palermo, in fourth place with 48 points,
lost 3-1 at home to Cagliari meaning they have not managed to win
in their last nine matches.


Palermo's defeat spurred on AC Milan in their late match Saturday
when they leapfrogged Empoli with a 3-1 win at the San Siro.


Milan's goals were scored by Ronaldo, Alberto Gilardino and
Giuseppe Favalli while Luca Saudati getting one back for Empoli.


AC Milan travel to Bayern Munich on Wednesday for their Champions
League quarter-final, second leg having drawn 2-2 in the first
match.

