

Defending world champion Fernando Alonso proved Sunday he has no
intention of letting his rivals steal his title with a perfectly-
judged drive to win the Malaysian Grand Prix.


The Spaniard led his young McLaren Mercedes-Benz teammate Lewis
Hamilton home in a spectacular one-two triumph, as the pair
handed out a lesson in race strategy to their rivals at the
sweltering Sepang International Circuit.


It was the 16th victory of Alonso's career, his first for his new
McLaren team in only his second race with them, and his second in
Malaysia.


He won in 2005 and finished second last year, both results
achieved while driving for Renault and en route to two successive
world titles.


Hamilton, 22, of Britain, confirmed the dazzling potential he
demonstrated on his debut in Australia last month, when he
finished third, by driving a perfect race in support and defence
of his team-mate on his own way to a well-deserved second place,
17 seconds behind Alonso.


Alonso's victory also ended a long 20-races McLaren drought.


It was their first win since they won in Japan in October 2005
and the first one-two since the Brazilian race that same year.


The result hoisted 25-year-old Alonso to the top of the embryonic
world drivers' championship ahead of Raikkonen, who finished
third for Ferrari ahead of German Nick Heidfeld in a BMW Sauber.


Raikkonen fought hard in the closing stages to close the gap on
Hamilton, but the young tyro held him off to finish seven-tenths
of a second ahead as they crossed the line.


Brazilian Felipe Massa, in the other Ferrari, who started from
pole, made mistakes and finished fifth ahead of Italians
Giancarlo Fisichella, who claimed sixth place for Renault, and
Jarno Trulli, who finished seventh for Toyota.


Finland's 25-year-old Renault rookie Heikki Kovalainen scored his
first point by finishing eighth, a solid answer to his critics
after a disappointing race in Melbourne.


On another sweltering day, with air temperatures hovering around
34 degrees Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit) and the track
temperature climbing to 57 degrees, together with humidity of 58
per cent, everyone felt the strain.


On the grid, drivers were freely using white towels to wipe away
heavy perspiration even before they had climbed into their cars.


At the start, Alonso, in second place, made a smooth and powerful
attack on pole-sitting Massa and swept ahead of him into the
first right-hand bend.


Like Hamilton's aggressive move at the first corner of the
Australian Grand Prix last month, this was a clear statement of
intent.


Massa fought to recover but was swiftly out-witted again by the
pace and intuition of Hamilton who shot through to claim second
as the cars fought for road space and positions through turns two
and three on the run towards the back straight.


Massa, frustrated, had to settle for third with Raikkonen fourth
and neither Ferrari driver was able to do much about it.


It was, without argument, a master-move in tactics, strategy and
driving skill by the McLaren team and they led not only the first
lap, as a result, but the opening stretch of the 56-laps race.


Alonso settled into his rhythm and reeled off a series of fastest
laps as he burnt off his fuel load.


Hamilton, in only his second Grand Prix, rode 'shotgun' behind
him, allowing the Spaniard to open up a 14-second gap before the
opening round of pit stops.


These saw Hamilton lead briefly, but by then Ferrari's challenge
had been hit by some rash attacking by Massa who, on lap six,
failed in an attempt to pass Hamilton. He ran off at turn four
and lost two places.


This left Raikkonen sitting in third. He was hardly content, but
he wisely waited instead of pushing before Alonso pitted after 18
laps.


Behind him, Heidfeld had taken fourth place ahead of the enraged
Massa who was in pursuit of his lost positions.


Heidfeld led, too, when Hamilton pitted, but once the leading
group had all changed tyres and refuelled for the first time, the
order was settled again with Alonso ten seconds clear of Hamilton
as McLaren dominated ahead of Raikkonen, in his Ferrari, Heidfeld
and Massa.


Hamilton, as expected, raced superbly to hold his position,
notably in the early laps when he was attacked by the Ferraris
and not only defended and resisted, but re-passed them
brilliantly when either managed to overtake.

