

East Timor's presidential election gets underway Monday amid
tight security and concerns over whether the result will be
credible in a contest seen as a three- way fight.


It will be the first poll for the largely ceremonial post of
president since the impoverished country declared independence in
2002 after a bloody separation from neighbouring Indonesia three
years earlier.


Current prime minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner Jose Ramos-
Horta, 57, is up against the ruling Fretilin party's chairman
Fransisco Guterres, 52, a former guerrilla who is popularly known
as Lu Olo.


A third candidate, Fernando "Lasama" De Araujo, the chairman of
the opposition Democrat Party, also stands a chance of winning,
said Damien Kingsbury of Australia's Deakin University.


"Ramos-Horta had a lot of popular support up to two weeks ago.
But his support has fallen," Kingsbury said, forecasting a run-
off. "It is a three-way contest."


More than 4,000 international and local police officers, and
about 1,000 troops from an Australian-led international
peacekeeping force dispatched to quell bloody unrest last year,
will try to ensure peaceful voting.


But half the eight candidates seeking the presidency have jointly
said they fear attempts have been made to manipulate the election
process and that violence could break out on Monday.


"There's been a lot of intimidation, a lot of violence, and a lot
of threats," they said in Dili, the capital, after 32 people were
said to have been injured in election-linked violence.


Meanwhile a UN-appointed certification team, set up last year to
help develop a fair and transparent poll, said Saturday it could
not vouch for the integrity of the election process.


Another election specialist, who wished to remain anonymous, told
AFP a possible shortage of ballot papers could be the flashpoint
for unrest.


"The potential is that some polling stations could run very close
on their ballot numbers," the specialist said.


More than 520,000 people are registered to vote, and results
should be available later next week.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Saturday called on all
parties to make the election just in the former Portuguese
colony.


"I hope the elections will be free, fair, transparent and
credible. I hope they will be unmarred by violence and
intimidation, and I hope they will lead to results accepted by
all," Ban said in a message broadcast on local radio.


The incumbent president Xanana Gusmao, a charismatic former
guerrilla leader who became East Timor's first head of state in a
vote just before formal independence, is not seeking re-election.


The poll comes about one month after Australian troops from the
international security force in East Timor killed five armed
supporters of a renegade soldier, Major Alfredo Reinado, who is
still on the loose.


The peacekeepers were dispatched after unrest in May last year
that killed at least 37 people and forced more than 150,000 to
flee their homes. Some 37,000 people are still displaced in Dili.


Ramos-Horta spent 24 years in exile during the Indonesian
occupation and was the chief spokesman for East Timor's cause.


He shared the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts on behalf of
his nation, which Indonesia invaded in 1975.


Guterres waged his independence campaign from East Timor's
mountains, where he was the second-highest officer in the
Falantil guerrilla movement.


Since independence, Guterres has been speaker of the parliament
dominated by his Fretilin party, which led the independence
struggle and won 57 percent of the vote in pre-independence
legislative elections.


Fretilin retains a solid base of support but has also been
criticised for a lack of political openness and the use of
intimidation.


"Many Timorese will vote Fretilin to the day they die," said
Andrea Bartoli, of the Centre for International Conflict
Resolution at New York's Columbia University.


"They are a strong, historic force in Timorese history. That
said, many people are disillusioned by the tactics they have
adopted to consolidate their stranglehold on power."


Fretilin has not done much for Maria Aleisu, 42, who struggles to
feed her five children by selling cigarettes, bananas and small
cakes.


"There is no work, there is no justice. The Fretilin party is
good but not the people who head it. We need someone good," she
said.


"Since 1975 we have been looking for peace," said Rita Amaral
Lino, 34, a civil servant. "With Mari Alkatiri, it ended up in a
crisis. Today I want Ramos- Horta."


The other presidential candidates are Avelino Coelho, Fransisco
Xavier do Amaral, Manuel Tilman, Joao Carrascalao and Lucia
Lobato.

