

Tiger Woods has never won a major when he is not leading after 54
holes but that is little comfort to the only two men the top-
ranked star does not lead entering the last day of the Masters.


Australian Stuart Appleby clung to a one-stroke lead over Woods
and Justin Rose of England after Saturday's third round, but his
record-high leading score of two-over 218 could be a mere speed
bump in the path of history.


Woods seeks his 13th major title, third major crown in a row and
fifth green jacket, one shy of Jack Nicklaus' all-time Masters
win record.


He is 12-for-12 in major when ahead after 54 holes but has never
won one when not leading after three rounds.


"I'm looking forward to having an opportunity to win the
championship," Woods said. "It's not like I'm 100 back so I got a
shot at it."


Woods and Appleby are in the final pairing, which has produced
the winner in the past 16 Masters.


"He won't even know I'm there," Appleby said. "I'm sure I'll know
he's there. He will be the other guy."


The Woods intimidation factor will have an impact, although the
cold and windy weather combined with dry, firm and fast greens
make Augusta National the big headache for everyone.


"Tiger has always got an advantage. It's quite obvious. He has
more experience than what is left of this field put together,"
Appleby said.


"The weather, does it equalize it? Sometimes. Shot supremacy is
certainly there. Emotionally, mentally he is a tough competitor
but he knows he beat the course and he always has.


"Whenever he has been in the lead, and he has nearly always won,
he has known how to tackle the course. He's not worried about
what anybody else is doing."


Asked if he might have had some success in informal rounds with
Woods he can draw from, Appleby laughed off the mere notion.


"No, I've never had my way with him," Appleby said. "What would
you like me to say? That I clean him up all the time? I'm great
on the practice range? I can beat him? I can hit it past him? No,
no and no."


Rose agrees that Woods is the man to beat.


"Sure, I think purely just that he has been here so many times
that he feels more comfortable with the situation maybe than the
rest of us," Rose said.


"At the same time, being in contention to win a major is a day
where that is the challenge. It's not about beating an
individual."


Yet having said that, Rose admitted a victory in a last-day duel
with Woods would add value to any green jacket.


"Winning in his group, playing with him and beating him down the
stretch, would be a sweeter feeling than winning not in his
group," Rose said.


"Either way, it's going to be a tough day."


Woods was more concerned about the blustery winds of Augusta than
his foes.


"If it blows like this you don't know. Putts from two or three
feet you have to play a little bit of wins and that's trouble out
here," he said.


"If it's like this you have got to be aggressive to your spots
and that's sometimes nowhere near a flag.


"You have to stay patient, hit quality shots and get very lucky
at the same time because you can hit a great shot and get
absolutely hosed out here."

