

Defending double world champion Fernando Alonso took over at the
top of this year's Formula One title race when he grabbed his
first win for his new McLaren Mercedes-Benz team in Sunday's
Malaysian Grand Prix.


The 25-year-old Spaniard, starting second, took the lead at the
first corner and delivered a classic and perfectly-judged drive
to a scorching victory ahead of his team-mate Briton Lewis
Hamilton.


"It is a perfect result, a dream," said Alonso. "This is such a
tough race and you never know about tyres, but we were relaxed in
the end. I lost radio communications from lap ten, like Kimi
(Raikkonen) in Australia, so it is a lucky thing!


"But they fixed it and to win is absolutely fantastic and it is a
wonderful surprise to achieve this after such a short time with
the team. Everyone has worked so hard. So much has been done by
the whole team."


Alonso led his brilliant young team-mate Hamilton home in a
dominant one-two by McLaren Mercedes-Benz as they ended a 20-race
drought without a win since the 2005 Japanese Grand Prix.


But Alonso himself said he felt almost dried out by the intense
heat inside his cockpit. "It was so tough, very tough. You take a
drink about every six laps but after a while it is like drinking
tea! It is so hot that it is hot water. And it is not fun to
drink that anymore."


Hamilton, 22, followed up his third-placed finish on his debut in
Australia last month by becoming the first 'rookie' driver to
score successive podium finishes in his first two races since
fellow Briton Peter Arundell in a Lotus in 1964.


"That was the toughest race of my life," said Hamilton
afterwards. "It was so difficult, so hard to defend. I ran out of
water -- and now I feel overwhelmed!"


He said he felt almost over-awed by his fight to keep the two
Ferrari drivers behind him during the early stages.


"To see two Ferraris in your mirrors behind you and to know they
are slightly lighter and probably quicker than you - it is so
difficult to hold them back," he said.


"Felipe (Massa) had a couple of moves to try and pass me, but,
unfortunately, I was able to trick him into out-braking himself
and then I was very fortunate to cut across and get in front of
him again. And then he went off and I apologise for that.


"Then, Kimi was behind me for the rest of the race and I ran out
of water and it was so tricky and it got hotter and hotter and I
just kept pushing and concentrating on making no mistakes. The
team did a fantastic job this weekend and I thank them for that -
for preparing me and the car."


Raikkonen said: "Of course, I am happy with the points, but I am
disappointed at how the race ended up - we just had to compromise
on too many things. We lost too much speed. I hope we can turn
the tables next weekend and fight to win again."


Alonso added: "It is very important for any driver to win his
first race for a new team at a Grand Prix and to have wins with
two different teams is something very special. It is a dream come
true after my winning with Renault. I am proud for all the team."

