

Bob and Mike Bryan defeated Feliciano Lopez and Fernando Verdasco
7-5, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (7/5) on Saturday to give the United States a
place in the Davis Cup World Group semi-finals.


The doubles victory gave the Americans an unassailable 3-0 lead
over Spain - playing without world No. 2 Rafael Nadal - in the
best-of-five match tie.


The American pair won their 11th Davis Cup match out of 12 to
send the 31-time champion Americans into a September 21-23 tie
against Sweden.


The victory marked the 155th win for the US from a 2-0 lead,
which was achieved on Friday when James Blake and Andy Roddick
both won in singles.


The twin brothers from California won their 11th Davis Cup match
out of 12 to send the 31-time champion Americans into a September
21-23 tie. But they said it wasn't easy.


"They were hitting aces on every big point," said Mike Bryan. "I
had trouble reading their serves, we really had to hang in
there."


Even so, Lopez and Verdasco were unable to make a big impression
in the first two sets in front of a partisan crowd of more than
14,000 as the Bryans took control.


The Americans lifted the first set after giving back a break of
Verdasco but tagging the Spaniard in the final game.


Leading two sets to love, the Bryans faltered as Bob was broken
for 2-4. The Spaniards seized that momentum to claim a set and
stay in touch.


The fourth set was high on drama as Lopez aced to save a match
point in the tenth game. As the set went to a tie-breaker, the
Bryans raced to 4- 1, only to lose their edge.


But the home side rallied to clinch the tie on their third
opportunity-winning chance after more than two and a half hours
on court.


"We had to play our best, they were tough," Bob said. We stayed
positive when it went to a fourth set. It's on to Sweden now,
this could be our year."


The winners have now claimed 11 of 12 Davis Cup doubles rubbers,
winning their sixth in a row. The US improved to 13-1 in quarter-
finals played at home.


First out to celebrate on the court were teammates Roddick and
Blake.


"I was so nervous just watching," said Roddick. "I wouldn't want
any other doubles team with us."


Blake called the pair "our rock."


"Every time they play, it's a lock for us. I hope they just keep
it going in Sweden."


Spain, now 3-5 against the Americans, won the last meeting, the
2004 semi-final played in Seville.


The visitors were without Rafael Nadal, who is resting a foot
injury in preparation for the clay court season.

