

Authorities on the Greek island of Santorini have announced plans
to sue the owners of a Greek cruise ship that sank near the
island, fearing a serious blow to the booming local tourist
economy from oil pollution.


"We feel it is our obligation to take legal action," said
regional governor Chrysanthos Roussos on Sunday.


"We need to ensure that the ship's owners take responsibility for
the clean-up operation," he told state television Net.


The Greek-flagged Sea Diamond hit a reef near the tiny island
port on Thursday and sank at dawn on Friday in the bay of
Athinio, descending to a depth of between 90 and 140 metres (295
to 459 feet), the merchant marine ministry said.


The location of the shipwreck complicates both efforts to drain
the ship's fuel tanks, and the search for two French tourists
believed to have been trapped on board during the accident.


"Divers cannot be used in these conditions, special deep-sea
machinery needs to be brought in," a ministry official told AFP.


Though the local authorities insist Santorini's pristine beaches
are located far from the shipwreck and are not threatened by oil
slicks, anti-pollution ships and an aircraft have been operating
on the site since Thursday.


"This is an unheard-of situation for our island," a local
fisherman said.


An oil slick 100 metres (330 feet) wide that appeared on Thursday
has already been removed, the ministry said.


"We are told that the situation is under control," Roussos said.


Net said the cruise ship still contains an estimated 400 tonnes
of fuel, and there is concern that currents may push the ship
deeper into Santorini's fabled caldera, a basin formed by
volcanic eruption 3,500 years ago.


"It is imperative to drain the fuel tanks as oil will be seeping
out, and if the ship sinks to the bottom this will no longer be
possible," George Nikolaidis, a professor of physical chemistry
at the Technological Educational Institute of Piraeus told the
station.


The Sea Diamond's captain and five officers on Saturday were
charged with causing a shipwreck through negligence, breaching
international shipping safety regulations and polluting the
environment, a Greek justice source said.


As the charges are at misdemeanour level and carry a maximum
sentence of five years, the suspects were subsequently released
pending further investigation.


But the captain faces more questioning over the fate of the two
missing tourists, news reports said.


The search continues for the missing French pair, Jean-Christophe
Allain, 45, and his 16-year-old daughter Maud from the region of
Angers in western France.


Based on the captain's assurances, the Greek authorities
initially said a three- hour operation to evacuate the Sea
Diamond's around 1,600 passengers and crew had been a complete
success.


The ship's operating company, Cyprus-based Louis Hellenic Cruise
Lines, says the 21-year-old, refitted Sea Diamond was "ultra-
modern" and had recently undergone inspection.

