

Bangladesh dealt a potentially fatal blow to South Africa's hopes
of qualifying for the World Cup semi-finals with a stunning
67-run victory in the Super Eights here on Saturday.


Bangladesh did the unexpected when they dismissed South Africa
for a modest 184 on a slow pitch after having set a challenging
252-run target in their best-ever batting performance of the
tournament.


Their first win over South Africa also threw the tournament wide
open as more than four teams are now in contention for the semi-
final berths.


Defending champions Australia lead the table with six points from
three matches, followed by Sri Lanka (6/4), New Zealand (6/3),
South Africa (4/4), England (2/3) and the West Indies (2/4).


Bangladesh, who beat India in the first round, found more than
one match-winner as they batted, bowled and fielded with
discipline.


Middle-order batsman Mohammad Ashraful played a key role as he
smashed a quickfire 83-ball 87 to help Bangladesh survive South
African paceman Andrew Nel's maiden five-wicket haul in the
morning session.


Left-arm seamer Syed Rasel then built on Ashraful's effort,
dismissing skipper Graeme Smith (12) and in-form Jacques Kallis
(32) in his opening spell to put South Africa on the back foot.


Rattled by pace, South Africa then looked clueless against spin.


They found themselves under pressure, but failed to find the
batsmen to rise to the occasion. They virtually went out of the
game when they slipped from 63-1 to a pathetic 87-6.


Left-arm spinner Saqibul Hasan did the maximum damage in the
middle overs as he had Mark Boucher (12) caught by Rasel and then
held a low return catch to account for Justin Kemp (seven) off
successive deliveries.


Left-arm spinners Abdur Razzak (3-25) and Mohammad Rafique (1-22)
also kept the batsmen silent with their tight spells.


Herschelle Gibbs, batting low down the order and with a runner
because of a calf injury, top-scored with an unbeaten 56 in a
below-par South African performance.


South Africa will meet New Zealand, the West Indies and England
in their last three matches, while Bangladesh opened their
account after four games.


Bangladesh were earlier struggling at 84-4 following Nel's
triple-strike before middle-order batsmen Ashraful and Aftab
Ahmed (35) steadied the innings with a 76-run stand. Nel finished
with 5-45 off 10 overs.


Aftab was the first to go for big shots, smashing two sixes in an
over from Kemp. This was the beginning of the onslaught as
Ashraful then improvised brilliantly to help his team post a
respectable total.


Ashraful completed his 11th half-century in style, lofting fast
bowler Makhaya Ntini for a straight four and then hitting two
more boundaries in the same over.


Ashraful struck 12 fours in his 83-ball knock, his best since
scoring 94 against England at Trent Bridge in 2005.


Nel, dropped after going wicketless in his team's opening game
against the Netherlands, looked in fine nick as he dismissed
openers Javed Omar and Tamim Iqbal (38), and skipper Habibul
Bashar in his lively opening spell.


Teenager Iqbal often stepped into the realm of adventure, hitting
Ntini for a couple of boundaries before falling playing one shot
too many.

