

The US high-technology industry is renewing its call to expand a
visa program for skilled workers after a quota for the upcoming
fiscal year was filled in a single day.


The H-1B visa program providing 65,000 visas was opened and
closed on April 2 after US authorities said they had received
some 150,000 applications.


American technology companies have long argued the visa limit is
too low, and complained that the meeting of the quota so quickly
highlights a need for urgent reforms.


"America must have access to the world's best talent if we are to
compete in the global economy," said Phil Bond, president of the
Information Technology Association of America, a trade
association.


"Upon its return, Congress should move quickly to raise the cap
and make it more responsive to market demand."


Launched in 1990, the H-1B visa program allows foreign
scientists, engineers and technologists to be employed for up to
six years in the United States, at the end of which they must
obtain permanent residency or return home. About half come from
India.


Because of the flood of applications this year, the visas for the
fiscal year starting October 1 will be given in a random
selection process, and employers who fail to get visas for their
prospective employees will have to apply next April for the
fiscal year starting in October 2008.


Last month, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates cited a "terrible
shortfall" in highly skilled workers for US technology firms.


"Unfortunately, America's immigration policies are driving away
the world's best and brightest precisely when we need them most,"
he told lawmakers.


Gates said the limit of 65,000 annual visas "is arbitrarily set
and bears no relation to US industry's demand for skilled
professionals."


But critics of the program say few companies use it for the
stated purpose of attracting the "best and brightest."


Ron Hira, a professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology
who specializes in engineering workforce issues and technology
policy, said there are loopholes in the visa process that make it
hard to know if there is indeed a shortage.


"Companies don't have to look for US workers first, and in fact
could displace American workers with H-1Bs," he said in an
interview.


Hira said the median wage for H-1B visa holders is 50,000 dollars
-- "so it's not the 100,000-dollar-a-year software engineer some
people talk about."


Although companies are required to pay a "prevailing wage," Hira
said this is "not necessarily a market wage, and in fact most
will get lower wages than an equally qualified US worker."


In other cases, Hira said firms use the visas to bring in workers
from India or elsewhere for a short period to train them for
outsourcing the work at a later date. This, he said, flies in the
face of the argument that the program keeps jobs in America.


"There is no indication in the labor market there is a shortage"
of high-tech workers, Hira said. "If there was a shortage you
would see wages driven up and that's not the case."


Democratic senator Dick Durbin and his Republican colleague Chuck
Grassley have introduced legislation aimed at tightening the
standards for visa programs "to give priority to American workers
and crack down on unscrupulous employers who deprive qualified
Americans of high-skill jobs," according to a joint statement.


The Durbin-Grassley bill would require that jobs be advertised
for 30 days before an employer may submit an H-1B application and
would ban the posting of a job as available only for H-1B visa
holders.


The measure also would prohibit employers from hiring H-1B
employees who are then outsourced to other companies and would
bar companies from new visas if more than 50 percent of their
employees are H-1B visa holders.


John Challenger, chief executive at consulting firm Challenger
Gray & Christmas, said the labor shortage is acute, with
fewer than two percent of people with college diplomas
unemployed.


"In an information economy the fuel is not oil, the fuel for the
next 50 years is brain power, so in some way there is always a
shortage," Challenger said.


"If we can be the place that attracts the brainpower of the world
it's going to help our economy grow."


Challenger said one way to address the political realities would
be to set up a fee or auction system for skilled workers seeking
to come to the United States instead of setting an arbitrary
limit. This would allow market forces to determine the number of
visas and provide more revenues to the government.


"We could use some of that revenue to provide educational support
programs in our country and to upgrade our skill base," he said.

