

The lush vineyards, rare plant species and breathtaking scenery
that have turned the Cape peninsula into a tourist magnet are in
danger of withering away within decades if the doomsday
predictions of a growing number of scientists come true.


A library of evidence -- including a major new UN report released
Friday -- suggest that Africa will suffer more than any other
continent from the impact of climate change during the course of
the century.


Hundreds of millions of people are set to face severe shortfalls
in food and drinkable water in the coming decades throughout the
continent but the impact may be most dramatically witnessed on
the southernmost tip of the continent.


According to international and local experts, endemic plant
kingdoms, fish stocks and unshielded coastal areas are all at
risk from rising sea levels in the province where the waters of
the Indian and Atlantic oceans collide.


The centuries-old, world-renowned wine region that lies within
easy range of Cape Town will migrate towards the east in coming
decades as the province becomes warmer and dryer from the north.


Farming in one of the country's agricultural mainstays would
become even harder and food ever scarcer as sparse water
resources dry up.


And the poor will suffer the most as increasingly extreme weather
conditions threaten their subsistence livelihoods and encourage
diseases like malaria travel further inland.


"The prospects are dire," said Katherine Bunney, facilitator of a
grouping of global warming activist organisations, the South
African Climate Action Network.


"We should be scared enough about the effects of climate change
to want to do something about it. It is going to be
catastrophic."


If the world succeeds to arrest and reverse carbon dioxide
emissions to pre- industrial levels over the next few decades,
the damage would be limited but not avoided, Bunney added.


"Even if we start acting now, we will still feel it. It is just a
matter of degree."


British economist Nicholas Stern, author of an influential report
released last year on the economics of climate change, has warned
that Africa would be hit hardest and soonest.


"You'd see more floods like you've seen in Mozambique in 2000,
you'd see more droughts like you saw in Kenya in the late 1990s,
there would be a serious threat to the water flow down the Nile
on which 10 countries depend," he told environmentalists on a
recent trip to Cape Point on the tip of the peninsula.


Cape Point is in the Table Mountain National Park, home to
several species of fynbos, or shrubland, vegetation millions of
years old and endemic to the area. It also contains a marine
protected area with several threatened fish species.


Stern said areas already hotter than others would feel
temperature rises first, along with extended droughts and more
frequent and severe flash floods.


"Africa ... is more vulnerable in the sense that there are more
people depending on agriculture and more people already in
poverty."


South Africa's two hottest and driest provinces, the Western Cape
and the mostly rural Northern Cape, face the harshest impact.


Dennis Laidler, deputy director of climate change at the Western
Cape environmental affairs department, said temperatures could
rise between two and five degrees Celsius by the end of the
century.


"The trend for the Western Cape will be towards desertification."


Global warming would see the Cape's wine regions slowly shift
hundreds of kilometres (miles) towards the Garden Route in the
south-east and shrink as farmers move after wetter climes and
switch to more resistant crops, predicted Bunney.


Other fruit crops, vegetables, wheat and even dairy farming in
the province were also susceptible to weather changes.


Many indigenous plant species would migrate towards more water-
rich parts of the province, causing some to become extinct along
the way.


The Western Cape's fynbos -- an Afrikaans word meaning literally
fine bush -- vegetation constitutes one of six floral kingdoms in
the world, with more plant species than the whole of Europe.


"The loss of biodiversity is an incredible economic loss for
tourism," Bunney said.


Other prospects include further urbanisation as agricultural
activity declines, a threat to estuaries and the unique fish
species they contain, as well as more wildfires -- already a
major concern in the province.


A 2005 Western Cape climate change report warned of the potential
effects of rising sea levels, although the extent was uncertain.


"Higher sea levels will require smaller storm events to overtop
existing storm protection measures," it said.


With less frequent but more severe rainfalls, flooding would also
become a bigger threat.


"In Cape Town many of the informal settlements are situated on
the Cape Flats where the high water table and inadequate
infrastructure makes them particularly vulnerable to flooding,"
said the report.


Laidler said the Western Cape government was working to curb CO2
emissions by growing renewable energy's contribution to total
production to 15 percent by 2015, through wind power among
others.


There would be steps to limit water leaks, punish unproductive
resource use, and replace the government fleet with gas powered
vehicles.


"The cost of not doing anything will be huge," he stressed.


Stern said he was encouraged that the threat was being taken
increasingly seriously worldwide.


"But there is still the question: will we as the world act
quickly enough and strongly enough? We will find out in the next
year or two".

