

About 200 people have been arrested ahead of Monday's
presidential election in East Timor, which will be secured by
more than 4,000 local and international police backed by
peacekeeping troops, officials said Sunday.


Deputy UN police commissioner Hermanprit Singh said that in
addition to the arrests made during the two-week election
campaign, a large number of gang leaders and members remained in
custody.


"We have been able to ensure with the prosecutors... their
continued detention so that the people who could have been the
source of trouble during the election remain behind bars," Singh
said.


At least 32 people were injured in election-related clashes
Wednesday in and around the capital Dili although most of the
campaign was peaceful, according to the United Nations.


Monday's vote comes about one month after Australian troops from
the international security force in East Timor killed five armed
supporters of a renegade soldier, Major Alfredo Reinado, who is
still on the loose.


The peacekeepers were dispatched after unrest in May last year
that killed at least 37 people and forced more than 150,000 to
flee their homes. Intermittent violence blamed on gangs has
continued since, leaving about 37,000 people displaced because
they are still afraid to return home.


UN police commissioner Rodolfo Tor told reporters on Sunday that
1,645 UN police officers from 41 countries will be assigned to
polling stations.


Another 3,000 East Timorese police will help to secure the vote,
while close to 1,000 troops from the international peacekeeping
force can be called for help if needed, he said.


On Sunday, ballots papers and other key materials were being
transported to the more than 700 polling stations, some of which
are in remote areas that can only be reached by helicopter,
porters or horseback, the United Nations said.


"We don't foresee any disturbing reports that would deter the
peaceful transmission of these materials to the different sub-
districts or polling stations. Each movement of these materials
has been escorted by police," Tor said.


More than 522,000 people are registered to vote.


Tor said they will not be frisked but will be visually checked
for weapons, including blades and sharp instruments.


Eight candidates including Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta are
vying to replace resistance hero Xanana Gusmao, who is not
standing for re-election.


It is the first ballot since independence in 2002 after a period
of UN stewardship that followed a bloody 1999 separation from
Indonesia, which invaded the former Portuguese colony in 1975.

