

This World Cup was widely derided in advance for having too many
minnow nations.


But somebody forgot to tell little Bangladesh that they don't
belong.


After beating India in the first round, they proved on Saturday
that that result was no fluke with a 67-run Super Eights win
against mighty South Africa, the world's top-ranked team, in
Guyana.


This World Cup had already seen one of the all-time great upsets
when Ireland's part-timers sent 1992 champions Pakistan crashing
out of the tournament with a three-wicket win at Jamaica's Sabina
Park.


On St Patrick's Day, the World Cup debutants chased a revised
target of 128 from 47 overs to win with 32 balls to spare, when
captain Trent Johnson smashed Azhar Mahmood over long-on for six
after Niall O'Brien had made 72.


After a shock-free first World Cup in 1975, Sri Lanka posted the
first real upset win four years later when they beat India by 47
runs at Old Trafford.


Sri Lanka made 238 for five thanks to fifties from Siddath
Wettimuny, Duleep Mendis and Roy Dias.


They then dismissed India for 191, Stanley de Silva and fellow
paceman Tony Opatha taking three wickets apiece.


Four years later Zimbabwe, in their first World Cup match, beat
Australia by 13 runs at Trent Bridge after a fairytale display
from captain Duncan Fletcher, now England's coach.


Fletcher made 69 not out in Zimbabwe's 239 for six before taking
four wickets for 42 runs.


West Indies were firm favourites to make it three straight World
Cup final wins in the 1983 climax against India, the 66-1 pre-
tournament outsiders, and were in charge at 50 for one after
bowling out their opponents for 183.


But medium-pace bowling, exemplified by Madan Lal's three for 12,
saw India to a 43 run-win, igniting the country's passion for
one-day cricket which now powers the financial motor of the world
game.


In 1996, Kenya thrashed West Indies by 73 runs in Pune - having
made a seemingly meagre 166.


Off-spinner Maurice Odumbe and seamer Rajab Ali both took three
wickets as Kenya notched up its first win in a full one-day
international.


Perhaps the most controversial World Cup upset came three years
later when Bangladesh beat Pakistan in Northampton as the
tournament returned to England.


In a game that has been the subject of match-fixing speculation
ever since, Bangladesh scored 223 after Pakistan quicks Wasim
Akram, Waqar Younis and Shoaib Akhtar had managed just three
wickets between them.


New-ball bowler Khaled Mahmud then took three for 31 as
Bangladesh bowled out Pakistan for 161 and a 61-run victory.


Four years later, however, Bangladesh found itself in the unusual
position of being an upset victim when the amateurs of Canada
defeated them by 60 runs in Durban after pace bowler Austin
Codrington had taken five for 27.


Much was made during the 2003 tournament of Kenya's advance to
the semi-finals on the back of New Zealand's refusal to play in
Nairobi, the capital, because of security worries.


But they wouldn't have made it to the last four without beating
Sri Lanka, the 1996 champions, by 53 runs in Nairobi.


Kenya's 210 for nine featured 60 from opener Kennedy Otieno but
it was his brother, Collins Obuya, who made headlines with five
for 24.

