

The biodynamic farming movement, for those who know it exists,
would more likely be associated with moon worship than an
exclusive Bordeaux wine futures tasting -- but this year they are
as one.


For the first time in Bordeaux during the weeklong tasting of
primeurs, or wine futures -- when more than 4,000 wine
professionals come to town to sample, and later buy the most
recent vintage, as yet unbottled and still maturing in oak
barrels -- 32 biodynamic chateaux, held their own primeur
tasting.


"There is a groundswell of interest for these products," said
Alain Moueix, organiser of the tasting and owner of a St Emilion
biodynamic "grand cru classe" Chateau Fonroque, one of two in the
area.


"It is this demand which is driving producers," said Moueix,
whose wine sells for 20 to 30 euros (26-40 dollars) a bottle.
"The environment is in the news these days, the organic vegetable
section in the supermarket is getting bigger ... and wine is
following this trend."


In France last year, the market for organic food increased 10
percent, according to the national agency for the development of
organic farming, L'Agence BIO. So if Moueix is right, there is a
future out there for biodynamic wines.


Although biodynamics and organics fall into the same general
category of alternative farming practices, the two are distinct.


The main principles of biodynamic farming were laid down by
Austrian philosopher and mathematician Rudolph Steiner in the
1920s.


As with organic farming, biodynamics forbids use of chemical
fertilisers and weed killers, but it goes further in terms of
philosophy, arguing that the entire vineyard is a living system
influenced by various factors, notably the moon.


Adherents believe that by using special plant and animal
preparations, in tiny amounts, at certain times of the moon's
cycle, they can activate the soil and root system of the plant,
which then produces better fruit.


Preparations, which are known by numbers, include 501, which is
quartz-based and used in doses of four grammes per hectare to
improve leaf growth and fruit bearing.


Another, preparation 500, is made of cow manure, fermented in a
cow horn and buried in the ground for one winter. It is diluted
and sprayed in the vineyard to activate soil and roots. The
burying of cow horns is something often mentioned by unbelievers,
to demonstrate the weirdness of it all.


Moueix however, who trained as an agricultural engineer and
oenologist, is resolutely un-weird.


He says he knows some people think it's all a bit funny, but
that's their problem. "What I know is when we follow the lunar
cycle we have less mildew, for example," he said, citing as proof
the fact that he has cut his copper treatments -- allowed by both
the organic and biodynamic movements -- by half.


"The limit is six kilos (13 pounds) of copper per hectare per
year. In 2006, a bad year for mildew, I used three kilos per
hectare."


The future of top wines, Moueix believes, is in the terroir --
the particular soil and climate conditions associated with each
parcel of vines. "Bio-dynamic farming is about good soil. If you
want good terroir you need good soil," he said.


Since he started biodynamic farming in 2002, and organic before
that, Moueix says he been producing richer, riper wines, but
without the normally associated problem of high alcohol levels.


At the tasting, which included six wines from Bordeaux, two from
Champagne, and the rest from Alsace, Bourgogne, Cotes du Rhone,
Loire, Provence, Languedoc and Roussillon, were a mix of converts
as well as potential buyers simply on the lookout for a good wine
at a good price.


"People probably don't understand much about organic or
biodynamic, and it is not particularly relevant," said Patrick
Barran, director of Clarion Wines in Britain, which has an annual
turnover of 1.5 million pounds (2.2 million euros, 2.9 million
dollars), a third of which is Bordeaux.


"The whole lunar calendar is a bit of a moot point, but there are
some very respected producers doing it. Anne-Claude Leflaive in
Burgundy is the grandest," Barran said, referring to the
biodynamic producer of Puligny Montrachet premier cru Clavoillon,
which sells for 50 to 100 euros (67-134 dollars) and up per
bottle, depending on the vintage.


"The thing that's really important is that these wines are good.
The fact that they are organic or biodynamic is just a plus,"
Barran said.


Either way biodynamics has yet to move into mainstream farming
practices.


Currently in France about 150 vineyards, of a total of more than
100,000, have been certified as biodynamic by the two main
certifying bodies, Demeter and Biodyvin. Of these about 20 are in
Bordeaux.


For Moueix, however, the matter is about more than just making
good wine. "I have the luck to have a grand cru class chateaux,
but it is just passing through me. I have a responsibility, to
the environment and to the next generation, to hand it on in good
condition."

