

Much will be at stake when Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao embarks on
a three-day visit to Japan on Wednesday -- not least the future
of economic ties between East Asia's two giants.


Wen's trip is part of what increasingly looks like a thaw, coming
after a nearly decade-long freeze, but much can still go wrong,
and the business community is not uncorking the champagne just
yet.


"If the political atmosphere stays cold for some time, the
economy can also cool," said Mitsuyuki Kagami, a professor of
Chinese political thinking at Japan's Aichi University. "That
poses big concerns for both China and Japan."


Wen's visit is the first such trip in seven years by a Chinese
premier, after a groundbreaking visit to China by Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe last year. It is happening none too soon,
according to analysts.


Japan was China's largest trading partner for 11 consecutive
years until 2003, but was then overtaken by the US and European
Union, and politics may have been factor, they argued.


"It's hard to avoid bad political relations having an impact on
the economic side," said Liu Jiangyong, a Japan expert at
Beijing's Tsinghua University. "Just look at 2005."


That was the year when latent anti-Japanese sentiment in the
Chinese public burst out into the open over Tokyo's desire for a
permanent United Nations Security Council seat.


Further enraged by a Japanese history textbook glossing over WWII
crimes, angry crowds marched through China's major cities,
smashing Japanese property. In Beijing, they pelted the Japanese
ambassador's residence with bricks.


A month after the protests, the worst riots in at least six
years, a survey showed the portion of Japanese firms planning to
expand existing business or start new business in China slumped
to 54.8 percent from 86.2 percent in late 2004.


The figure later rebounded, but even at 76.8 percent in late
2006, it remains almost 10 percentage points below the pre-riot
figure.


Trade is growing, but not as much as one would expect, when an
export-dependent economy such as the Chinese expands at double-
digit rates.


Bilateral trade rose about 12 percent in both 2005 and 2006, only
around half of the growth rate between China and its other two
major trading partners, Europe Union and the US.


But Liu noted that Japan's exports to China, mainly high-grade
electronics and automobiles, have been expanding faster since Abe
visited China in October just after taking office, and the
tendency will continue.


Bilateral trade rose by 22.4 percent year-on-year to 33.49
billion dollar in the first two months of 2007, with the growth
pace 10.7 percentage points higher than a year earlier, according
to figures from Chinese customs.


The sluggish political relations will not deter Beijing from
buying capital equipment and technologies from Japanese firms,
analysts said.


"(The Japanese enterprises) have very good opportunities here. I
think the government should basically make their decision based
on technologies," Hong Kong-based economist with Lehman Brothers
Sun Mingchun said.


"It's more important to focus on the economic side, less on the
political side," Sun said.


According to Akihiko Tanaka, a professor of international
politics at the University of Tokyo, China will not allow
economic ties to deteriorate too much, as they serve its own
interests too.


"The Chinese leadership knows that Japan would play a key role if
China wants to further expand its economic development," he said.
"A good international environment is a prerequisite for China's
development.

