

Tiger Woods stayed firmly in sight of winning his fifth Masters
title despite a bogey-bogey third-round finish Saturday on one of
the chilliest and toughest days in Masters history.


But to do so he will have to do something he has never done
before - win a major when not in the lead or tied for the lead at
the end of the third round. All 12 of his previous major wins
have come when he has been in front.


Starting the day tied for 15th, five strokes off joint leaders
Tim Clark of South Africa and Brett Wetterich of the United
States, he ended it, after a par-72, one stroke behind Stuart
Appleby of Australia, whose 73 gave him the lead at two-over par
218.


Sharing second place with Woods at three under was England's
Justin Rose, who had a 75 with home hero Vaughn Taylor (77),
Ireland's Padraig Harrington (75) and Zach Johnson of the United
States (76) all a further stroke back.


After three days of torture on one of the most beautiful golf
courses in the world, not one player was under par and the
tournament had the highest score to lead after 54 holes in
Masters history, effacing the even-par total after three rounds
set by Jack Nicklaus and Tommy Jacobs in 1966.


Asked if he had let a good round get away with the dropped
strokes at 17 and 18, Woods replied: "Yep, and then some.


"I was out there plodding along all day. It was one of the
hardest rounds we have played here.


"You had to stay patient, you had to hit quality shots and get
very lucky at the same time. But it's not like I'm 100 back so I
got a shot at it."


Woods had predicted a battle for survival for the players who had
managed to duck under the highest Masters cut in 25 years and so
it turned out.


The fast and furious greens and fairways that had sent scores
spiralling on the much-lengthened Augusta National course in the
first two rounds were made all the more difficult by unseasonably
cold conditions of around 48 degrees Fahrenheit (nine degrees
Centigrade) and a biting and troublesome north wind.


The first eight players out in the morning set the tone with no
one managing to make par, and the leaders fared no better as
Clark and Wetterich were sent toppling from their perch within
three holes.


They were not alone in their struggles as par became the height
of ambitions. Only Woods and Appleby were heading in the right
direction on the scoreboard.


Woods, who will make it three majors in a row if he wins on
Sunday, had to scramble to save par after a wayward approach on
the first, but he struck his first birdie at the par-five second.


With confidence surging back into his game, he sunk an 18-footer
at the eighth to reach the turn in 34 before bogeying the par-
three 12th for the second straight day, this time hitting too
long into a back bunker.


But he bounced back immediately, pitching to six feet for a
birdie at the par- five 13th, Two holes later, he had the chance
to get back to level par for the first time since the sixth hole
in the first round, but three-putted.


Then an errant drive on the 17th resulted in his second bogey of
the day followed by another on the last to emulate his poor
finish in the first round.


Appleby, bidding to become the first Australian to win the
Masters, bounded into the lead with a run of three birdies from
the second.


He dropped one at the seventh, but then a gutsy run of pars saw
him hold out as the only player in red figures at one under until
the 17th when a wild slap off the tee resulted in what he called
"a comedy of errors" and a sickening triple- bogey seven.


"Stuff like that happens," Appleby said of his woes on 17.


"But that's Augusta. It's a tough opponent and it will be tough
tomorrow. It's going to be cold again and we all know what we are
in for."


Defending champion Phil Mickelson looked to get a run going when
he birdied the second, but he gave that back on the fifth and
like those around him it was a struggle to keep to par after
that.


He eventually came in with a 73 and was at five-over for the
tournament, but insisted he was still in the hunt.


"It's going to be a tough task tomorrow, but it's not
impossible," he said. "I don't feel it's unrealistic. I've seen
people come back from seven shots back."


The only sub-par round of a hugely difficult day went to South
Africa's Retief Goosen who came in with a two-under 70.


That propelled the two-times US Open champion up the leaderboard
and level with Mickelson on six under, but left him saying he
would need a 64 at least on Sunday to win the Masters.


With similar chilly conditions forecast for Sunday, that looked
like being a highly unlikely eventuality.

