

Quentin Tarantino's first film for three years is a blood-soaked
homage to the low-budget, high-bodycount exploitation B movies
that were a staple of drive-in cinemas and seedy theatres across
America during the 1960s and 1970s.


The celebrated director of "Reservoir Dogs" and "Pulp Fiction"
has once again joined forces with film-maker Robert Rodriguez
with a three-hour double-bill "Grindhouse," referencing the name
of theaters which screened the gory feature films of yesteryear.


Uniquely, the two films that comprise the package -- Tarantino's
"Death Proof" and Rodriguez's "Planet Terror" -- will be released
separately for international audiences, with the exception of
Britain and Australia.


Tarantino, a long-time devotee of B-movie schlock horror which
has influenced films such as "From Dusk Till Dawn" and "Kill
Bill," said in a recent interview that "grindhouse" films covered
a broad range of genres.


"They were usually shown in dilapidated urban theaters, and could
include anything from horror movies and kung-fu films to
spaghetti Westerns," the 44 -year-old Los Angeles native said.


"They were shown in double and triple-features, and sometimes
all-night-long. There were sub-genres like cheerleader movies,
sexploitation movies, nurse movies, bootlegger movies and monster
movies."


Tarantino's contribution to the "Grindhouse" double-bill tells
the story of a psychopathic stuntman played by Kurt Russell who
stalks and kills a series of beautiful and scantily clad women
with his car.


While Tarantino says he believes many grindhouse movies were "not
quite sleazy enough," he insists that his latest effort is not
intended as a lark.


"I don't believe in a 'oh-it's-so-bad-it's-good' approach," he
said. "Every movie I make is the best movie I can make."


Rodriguez, who enjoyed success most recently with his gory film-
noir adaptation of Frank Miller's comic-book novel "Sin City,"
said he had never heard of grindhouse cinemas until introduced to
the sub-culture by his long-time friend and collaborator
Tarantino.


"He's shown me prints of the movies that he used to watch,"
Rodriguez said. "I liked it so much that I thought that we should
create this for other people. "Nobody's going to get to see these
films at Quentin's house, but it's such a fun night at the
movies. People are so tired of what they're getting at theaters
these days."


Whether Tarantino and Rodriguez strike box-office gold with the
double-bill, which opened on Friday, remains to be seen. But
early reviews have been positive, albeit with more praise
lavished on Tarantino's contribution.


"A veritable smorgasbord of decapitations, impalings, attempted
rapes, car chases, explosions, good and bad acting and well-
endowed women in very short shorts," was how one reviewer
described the package.


A spokeswoman for the film's backers, The Weinstein Company,
meanwhile, said the decision to release the two parts of the
movie separately outside the US was taken because grindhouse
cinema was an American tradition.


"There wasn't a culture internationally of screening
grindhouse/exploitation movies back to back and for this reason,
we are releasing Quentin Tarantino's 'Death Proof' and Robert
Rodriguez's 'Planet Terror' separately," she said.


"Each individual feature will have additional footage not seen in
the US double feature plus they will both screen the faux
trailers seen in the double feature."

