

England's Justin Rose and Irishman Padraig Harrington, the
penultimate pairing in Sunday's final round of the 71st Masters,
will try to bring Europe its first major title since 1999.


Both fired three-over par 75s here Saturday in cold and windy
conditions at Augusta National Golf Club, leaving Rose level with
Tiger Woods on three-over par 219, a stroke behind leader Stuart
Appleby, and Harrington fourth on 220.


"I'll take being only two shots behind," Harrington said. "I
actually thought I was going to be four or five behind."


"That will be the toughest round I'll ever play at Augusta, until
tomorrow," Rose said.


No European has taken a major since Scotsman Paul Lawrie's 1999
British Open victory at Carnoustie, a 29-major drought.


No European has won here since Jose Maria Olazabal of Spain in
1999, ending a run of 11 Masters titles in 20 years by Europeans.


And no Masters winner has come from outside the final group on
Sunday since Nick Faldo in 1990.


But Harrington, whose best major finish was a solo fifth last
year at the US Open, has confidence after grinding his way around
the most difficult scoring conditions seen in decades at Augusta
National.


"I stuck in there and tried to enjoy the questions which were
being asked of me. It was definitely positive for me that I felt
comfortable out there," said Harrington.


"I made a few mistakes and I'm sure I'll make some more tomorrow.
But hopefully I can hit enough good shots to recover from those
and make enough birdies to make an attack on the lead."


Rose opened with a pair of bogeys but righted the ship with a
birdie at seven, his first birdie since the 14th hole in round
one.


"That was quite a run of holes without a birdie," Rose said.
"Getting that gave me a little bit of confidence."


Bogeys at 16 and 17 dropped him from the lead into the thick of a
fight, but Rose felt it was a fair one.


"The course setup, I don't think you can argue with where they
put the flags," Rose said. "I wasn't out there thinking, 'That's
ridiculous'. It was just tough."


Rose said he might allow himself the luxury of pondering what a
Masters champion green jacket would feel like but only for a
fleeting moment and not on the course Sunday.


"You can let it enter your mind but you need to eliminate it as
quick as possible," Rose said.


Two other Europeans gave themselves a solid chance to capture
their first major title as well - Welshman Bradley Dredge in
seventh on 221 after a 76 and England's Luke Donald, who stood in
a pack on 222 after a 75.


Donald took double bogeys at nine and 18 where pars would have
left him with a share of the 54-hole lead.


"They both spoiled what was a really good round," Donald said. "I
got myself back into contention with a nice little run and I'm so
disappointed not to be able to close it off. I'd love to have
been at 3- or 4-over."


Four strokes off the pace with 12-time major winner Woods ahead
was a spot that would require flawless final-round execution to
claim victory, Donald said.


"I have my work cut out but it is possible. But I'm going to have
to have a very, very good round tomorrow with nothing going
wrong," he said. "You have to play smart and just try and make
some birdies on the par-5s and snatch another couple here and
there."


Dredge barely qualified for the Masters, claiming the 50th spot
in the 2006 year-end rankings by .01 over Rose to take the last
available Masters berth. Had Rose not missed an event for his
wedding, Dredge likely would not be here.


The Welshman made the most of his chance despite bogeys at 16 and
18 and hopes to become the first Masters debutante since Fuzzy
Zoeller in 1979 to win the event.


"I need to go out and put it all together and see what happens,"
Dredge said. "This is what you practice for, to be in these
positions. You just have to keep plugging away."


This is only the second time Dredge has made the cut in a major,
having shared 28th at the 2002 British Open.


"It feels more like I'm in Cardiff than Augusta. We could have
snow it's that cold," Dredge said. "It's still fantastic."

