

Here are the main options for reducing emissions of greenhouse
gases, as sketched in a draft report by the UN's
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


The IPCC's "summary for policymakers" on how to mitigate climate
change is to be issued in Bangkok next Friday after a five-day
meeting.


The draft says an overarching goal is to establish a "price for
carbon," a reference to carbon dioxide (CO2) and other
greenhouse-gases emitted by burning fossil fuels and by farming.


If carbon pollution carries a significant price, producers and
consumers are encouraged to switch to low-carbon products,
technologies and processes -- and the higher the price, the
faster the change and the deeper the cut in emissions.


To achieve a reasonable price, a basket of policies and
technologies is needed and the mix can include regulatory, fiscal
and voluntary measures, says the report.


The document does not make any recommendations, but highlights
the following options as being proven as "environmentally
effective":


TARGET FOSSIL FUELS


Reduce subsidies for fossil fuels and impose a carbon tax.
Resistance by the fossil-fuel industry and by the public may make
these measures politically hard to implement. Carbon storage
(capturing CO2 from burning fossil fuels at power plants and
other big sites and then storing the gas in chambers underground)
has "significant mitigation potential" over the next two decades.


ENCOURAGE RENEWABLE ENERGIES


Help wind, solar, geothermal and other "clean" energies with
subsidies, require the purchase of a given amount of the
electricity they produce, or set tariffs that make them
competitive against fossil-fuel rivals. A price of 20-100 dollars
per tonne of CO2 would give renewables 30-35 percent of the total
electricity market by 2030.


REDUCE ROAD POLLUTION


Fuel-economy and CO2 standards for cars, trucks and buses can be
toughened. Countries can also invest in public transport and non-
motorised forms of transport to wean people off the road. Higher
taxes on car purchase, fuel and parking likewise discourage
vehicle ownership, but become less effective with people on
higher incomes. If CO2 is priced at 25 dollars per tonne,
biofuels would get a tenth of the market for petrol and diesel.


MAKE BUILDINGS ENERGY EFFICIENT


Homes and offices are indirectly one of the biggest sources of
carbon dioxide (CO2) as they are heated, cooled and lit chiefly
by fossil fuels. Countries can reduce the emissions by regularly
updating building codes and energy-efficiency standards for
lighting, boilers, air-conditioning and other appliances. Thirty
percent of projected emissions from buildings could be avoided by
2020 at "negative cost," meaning there would be a net gain
because of lower energy bills. Solar panels, smart metering and
"intelligent controls" over building conditions also have big
emissions-cutting potential.


CUT CO2 FROM INDUSTRY


Options include subsidies and tax credits, as well as tradable
permits, such as the so-called "carbon market" already underway
in Europe under the UN's Kyoto Protocol. Voluntary agreements
between industry and government are "politically attractive" and
raise awareness about carbon pollution but most of these deals
have not achieved significant reductions.


AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND WASTE


Provide financial incentives to improve land management to avoid
CO2 and methane being released from soil and to maintain and
manage forests. Trees capture CO2 when they grow, although the
carbon is released back into the atmosphere when they die and
decay. Landfills offer big potential in recovering methane from
rotting rubbish, but they may need financial incentives and
regulatory support to get the technology established.

