

Despite growing criticism of US policy in Iraq, President George
W. Bush has warned Democrats not to "test my will" after he
vetoes a bill withdrawing US troops from Iraq.


Bush invited Democrats and leaders of his Republican Party to
discuss a way out of their standoff soon after he strikes down
the bill, approved by Congress this week, which ties 124 billion
dollars in war funds to a troop withdrawal that would start on
October 1.


But he pledged to strike down any subsequent attempt by the
Democratic-led Congress to set a deadline for a pullout.


"If the Congress wants to test my will as to whether or not I'll
accept the timetable for withdrawal, I won't accept one," he told
a news conference at his retreat in Camp David, Maryland, Friday.


"So if they want to try again that which I have said was
unacceptable, then of course I'll veto it," Bush said.


"But I hope it doesn't come to that. I believe we can work a way
forward.  And I think we can come to our senses and make sure
that we get the money to the troops in a timely fashion," he
said.


The bill passed 218-208 in the House of Representatives on
Wednesday and 51-46 in the Senate on Thursday and has a non-
binding target of completing the troop pullout by March 31, 2008.


Bush could veto the legislation early next week with the aim of
quickly getting a new bill on his desk acceptable to both sides
as soon as possible to provide the money for military operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The showdown between Bush and Congress comes in the context of
Americans' mounting disapproval of the four-year-old war and
Bush's strategy to deploy additional troops to Iraq to quell
violence bordering on civil war.


The New York Times reported Saturday the Bush administration did
not plan to make its first formal assessment of whether a US
troop "surge" now under way in Iraq is producing results until
September.


Citing unnamed senior administration officials, the newspaper
said many top Bush advisers now anticipated that even by then any
gains will be limited.


The Democrats regained control of Congress in November elections
largely on voter anger over the Bush administration's decision to
invade Iraq in March 2003 on the basis of now discredited
intelligence that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction
(WMDs), and the violence that has cost more than 3,300 US lives.


In a damning new book, reported on Friday by The New York Times,
former CIA director George Tenet says there was no serious debate
within the US administration ahead of the Iraq invasion.


Tenet, who led the Central Intelligence Agency in the runup to
and after the war launched to eliminate the alleged threat of
Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, also says he was scapegoated
by the White House when no WMDs were found in Iraq.


In his book "At the Center of the Storm," to be published Monday,
Tenet defends his own role in the decision to attack Iraq while
blasting Vice President Dick Cheney and other US officials, the
New York Times reported Friday after it obtained a copy of the
book.


"There was never a serious debate that I know of within the
administration about the imminence of the Iraqi threat," Tenet
writes.


He also said, according to the Times, that the Bush
administration never undertook a "serious discussion" about the
option of containing Iraq without resorting to an attack.


The US military came in for sharp criticism Friday by one of its
own.


Lieutenant Colonel Paul Yingling said that generals had failed to
prepare the military for counter-insurgency warfare, kept silent
when the country went to war with too few troops, and botched the
post-invasion occupation.


"In 2007, Iraq's grave and deteriorating condition offers
diminishing hope for an American victory and portends risk of an
even wider and more destructive regional war," Yingling wrote in
an essay published in the Armed Forces Journal.


"These debacles are not attributable to individual failures, but
rather to a crisis in an entire institution: America's general
officer corps," he wrote.


The deputy commander of the army's 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment,
Yingling has served two combat tours in Iraq, and before that
tours in Bosnia and the 1991 Gulf War.

