

South Africa's Team Shosholoza and France's Areva Challenge were
the main winners and losers at the Louis Vuitton Cup here on
Friday.


The pair met in round 11 of the first stage of the round robin
matches with Areva holding a 100 metre cushion at the finish only
for the hapless French to get disqualified on a technicality.


"All their boat hadn't crossed the (virtual finish) line, the top
of their mast didn't pass on the right side of the line," a
spokesman for the race committee explained.


Areva, who earlier had seen off United Internet Team Germany,
remain in eighth in the standings after this sixth defeat, one
place behind Team Shosholoza.


But the French later announced they were appealing the decision.


Sebastien Col, Areva's helmsman, said: "We haven't fully
understood why we didn't win. We are aware of the rule but want
to study the television images and photographs.


"At this moment we feel that the decision is unfair, when we saw
that it wasn't our flag raised we were devastated."


Mark Sadler, Team Shosholoza's skipper, said: "We were neck and
neck crossing the line and it was impossible for us to see
whether they completed it or not. Our objective was to just cross
the line before they had completed.


"It was completely up to the judges and their decision. We were
just holding our breath - it was not in our control, we just
sailed as fast as we could to see if they were going to complete.


"It either goes your way or it doesn't. We only realized we had
won when the blue flag went up."


The five favourites to emerge from the round robin stage and into
the semi- finals of this America's Cup qualifying competition -
BMW Oracle, Emirates Team New Zealand, Luna Rossa and Desafio
Espanol - all had an unscheduled day off as the lack of wind
forced a total of six races to be held over until Saturday.


The Louis Vuitton standings are headed by America's Oracle,
unbeaten after 10 races, with the Kiwis three points adrift with
Luna Rossa and Desafio Espanol sharing third one point further
back.

