

The Turkish army, responsible for three past coups, warned that
it is determined to defend the country's secular system, weighing
in on a controversial presidential vote that has sharply divided
secularists and the Islamist-rooted government.


The warning came in an unusually stiff statement late Friday,
hours after parliament held an inconclusive first round of voting
to elect a new president with Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, the
ruling Justice and Development Party's pick, the sole candidate.


"The problem that recently came to the forefront of the
presidential election process has focused on the issue of
questioning secularism. The Turkish armed forces are observing
this situation with concern," the army said.


"The Turkish armed forces... will openly and clearly display
their position and attitude when necessary. No one should doubt
this," it warned.


The AKP's nomination of Gul has fanned unease in an increasingly
polarised society where many fear the secular order is under
threat from a growing Islamist influence.


Many are unconvinced by the AKP's arguments that it has disawoved
its Islamist past and fear the government will have a free hand
to implement a suspected Islamist agenda that will erode the
separation of state and religion if Gul is elected.


The Turkish armed forces, which see themselves as the guardians
of the secular system, seized power in 1960, 1971 and 1980 and
forced the resignation in 1997 of the country's first Islamist
prime minister, Necmettin Erbakan.


The main opposition Republican People's Party, which strongly
opposes the idea of a former Islamist becoming president, on
Friday evening petitioned the Constitutional Court to cancel the
first round of voting, citing violation of a quorum rule.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections -- originally
scheduled for November 4 -- must be called within 90 days.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has yet to respond to the
army statement.


The Turkish press on Saturday urged the government to call early
elections to prevent it from plunging into a deep crisis.


In a front-page editorial, the popular daily Vatan urged all
political parties to take the army statement seriously.


"The quickest way to save Turkey and its future is to convene
parliament at once, hold elections as speedily as possible and
prove to the world that Turkey is mature enough to resolve its
problems democratically," it said.


Many commentators accused Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's
AKP of raising tensions and not seeking a consensus with the
opposition on the choice for the presidency, which is a non-
partisan office, but relying on his comfortable parliamentary
majority to have his way.


Erdogan's detractors accuse him of abusing his nearly two-thirds
parliamentary majority garnered with only one third of the vote
in the 2002 vote -- thanks to Turkey's much-criticized electoral
system -- to put an Islamist in the presidency seen as the last
bastion of secularism in Turkey.


In Friday's presidential vote, Gul fell 10 votes short of the
two-thirds majority of 367 required in ballotting boycotted by
opposition parties.


If the Constitutional Court does not cancel the vote, parliament
will hold a second round on Wednesday, probably with a similar
result, but he is virtually certain to be elected in the third
round on May 9, when an absolute majority of 276 will suffice.


Dozens of non-governmental organizations have called for a rally
in Istanbul Sunday to show their support for the secular system,
similar to one in Ankara two weeks ago which drew up up to 1.5
million people, acording to some estimates.


The AKP was born out of Erbakan's party, banned for anti-secular
activities the year after it was ousted from power, but argues
that it has since evolved and is committed to the secular system.


Secularists cite its unsuccessful attempts to criminalise
adultery, restrict alcohol sales and lift a ban islamic
headsarves in government offices and universities as evidence
that the party has not changed.


Although the job is largely symbolic and ceremonial, the
president's duties include signing government bills into law and
appointing key officials.

