

No upsets were registered on the opening day of the icehockey
world championships here Friday as all the favourites came
through unscathed.


Last year's runners-up Czech Republic started confidently against
Belarus clinching a 1-0 lead through Jaroslav Hlinka 7:57 into
the match on powerplay.


Columbus Blue Jackets' striker David Vyborny added his goal at
10:19 also when Belarus were shorthanded.


Oleg Antonenko reduced the arrears at 16:18, but Tomas Plekanec
of Montreal Canadiens and Florida Panthers' Rostislav Olesz made
it 4-1 for the Czechs before the first break.


Petr Sykora netted the Czechs' fifth goal 7:21 into the second
period just 19sec before Antonenko scored his second goal of the
match.


Plekanec also netted his second of the match 2:27 into the last
period, while Jan Marek and Zbynek Irgl added one apiece to
complete the thrashing 8-2 defeat of the former Soviet republic.


In the other Group B match, that opened the championship's
schedule, the United States easily overcame Austria, who won
promotion into elite division last year, 6-2.


The United States were in command right from the start and Boston
Bruins striker Philip Kessel put them into the lead up when the
game was just 1:59 old.


Austria had a clear chance to level as they had a two-man
advantage for more than a minute but they failed to find the net,
while Tobias Petersen of Edmonton Oilers made it 2-0 with a
close-range sharp-angled shot.


Raimund Divis reduced the arrears but Lee Stempniak of St Louis
Blues restored the US team's two-geal lead on powerplay with 2:47
remaining before the first intermission.


In the remaining time the United States eased up pressure but
nevertheless scored on three more occasions through Washington
Capitals' Christopher Clark, Carolina Hurricanes' Erik Cole and
Brandon Bochenski of Boston Bruins, while Oliver Setzinger scored
Austria's second.


In the Group D Fredrik Norrena produced 25 saves to record the
first shoutout of the event, while forward Timo Parssinen netted
a double to help last year's bronze medalists Finland to blanc
5-0 another former Soviet republic Ukraine.


Defender Pekka Saravo netted the opener 13:00 into the match.


Seam Bergenheim made it 2-0 four minutes into the second, while
Parssinen added his double to make it 4-0 for Finland.


Petri Kontiola finalised the scoring with 8:32 to go with a
shorthanded goal to record Finland's seventh win over Ukraine in
as many head-to-head meetings.


In the other Group D match the hosts Russia got off to a flying
start clinching a commanding 3-0 lead within less than four
minutes of their showdown with Denmark.


Danis Zaripov put Russia 1-0 up just 28 sec into the game sliding
the puck home from just outside the crease from Sergei Zinoviev's
cross-ice pass.


Defender Ilya Nikulin slapped the puck in from just inside the
blue line though the traffic at 3:32, while Pittsburgh Penguins
striker Yevgeny Malkin added his goal just 22 seconds later.


Peter Regin netted Denmark's first goal of the event with 2:41
remaining to play in the first period.


Russia's skipper Pyotr Schastlivy, Andrei Markov of Montreal
Canadiens, Alexei Morozov, Nikolai Kulemin and Washington
Capitals' Alexander Ovechkin all scored in the second.


Los Angeles Kings' forward Alexander Frolov completed the scoring
with 4:17 remaining before the final horn.

