

Afghanistan's Taliban movement was expected to announce Saturday
the fate of two French aid workers captured with three Afghans
more than three weeks ago.


The five, employees of a small French children's non-government
organisation, went missing in southwestern Nimroz province April
3, about a fortnight after an Italian correspondent was freed by
Taliban militants who beheaded his Afghan driver and interpreter.


The Taliban said April 20 they would give a week for France to
withdraw its 1,000 troops in Afghanistan with a NATO-led force
and for the release of Taliban prisoners in exchange for the
hostages.


Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed after the
government released five Taliban prisoners, some of them high-
profile figures, in a much-criticised deal that the government
vowed would never be repeated.


A deadline for the Taliban's demands to be met in exchange for
the five would expire on Saturday, Taliban spokesman Yousuf
Ahmadi told AFP Friday.


"Tomorrow before noon (0730 GMT) we will make a decision," he
said later.


"There has been no direct contact for negotiations so far. We
have nothing new," he said. On the demands, he said: "Nothing has
changed."


Another source within the extremist movement said on condition of
anonymity there was a possibility that the French woman among the
Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) group could be
released within a couple of days.


The movement said in a statement posted on its website April 20
that if its demands were not met, its "position... about foreign
prisoners was clear to the world and (will) soon be applied."


The Taliban, who use many of the terror tactics employed by
militants in Iraq, have beheaded several Afghan hostages and some
foreigners -- most of them Indians and Turks involved in road
construction in the south.


The movement also claimed responsibility for the slaughter of a
British engineer in September 2005.


The new kidnapping, in a remote area where few foreigners would
travel by road, has attracted intense interest in France, which
goes to the polls May 6 in a presidential run-off.


Leading presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy said this week the
length of the French deployment with the 37-nation NATO-led force
in Afghanistan was not determined.


Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Friday there was no
plan for the troops to stay for the long-term.


Most of France's soldiers are based in the capital Kabul, which
sees much less of the violence raging in the south and east. The
country also has three Rafale strike fighters operating in
Afghanistan and based in Dushanbe.


It withdrew its contingent of around 200 special forces last
year, but has about 20 troops here training the fledgling Afghan
special forces.


The Taliban, driven from power by a US-led coalition in 2001 for
sheltering the Al-Qaeda network behind the September 11 attacks,
target mainly troops and government workers in an increasingly
intense campaign.


Western officials have said the extremists play on national
concerns about the war in Afghanistan with circles in some
countries calling for their deployments -- some of which have
faced their worst fighting in decades -- to be brought home.


More than 40 foreign soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan
this year, most of them in hostile action.

