

A rare, moderate earthquake shook households in southeast England
on Saturday, toppling chimneys and alarming residents,
authorities said, but there were no immediate reports of
injuries.


A spokesman for Kent's Fire and Rescue Service said they had
received around 100 calls, with people complaining that "their
chimneys have fallen down (and) large cracks in people's houses."


Sky News television reported some witnesses saying that they had
been evacuated from their homes by the Salvation Army and that
their gas and electricity supplies were cut off.


According to the United States Geological Survey, the quake
measured 4.7 on the open-ended Moment Magnitude scale which is
now used by US seismologists.


A spokesman for the British Geological Survey added it was the
largest in Britain since a tremor in the West Midlands in 2002.


Hendrick van Eck, 27, from the city of Canterbury, said that the
tremor lasted just a few seconds.


"I then heard the sound of cracking and it was getting heavier
and heavier. It felt as if someone was at the end of my bed
hopping up and down," he said.


Sharon Hayles, from the nearby village of Stanford, said it felt
like "the whole house was being slid across like a funfair ride."


And Paul Smye-Rumsby, from the port town of Dover, told BBC
radio: "Suddenly the bed shook violently. I thought my wife had
got cramp or something but then I saw the curtains were moving
and the house was shaking. It lasted about 1.5 seconds."


The epicentre of the tremor, which the US Geological Survey said
occurred at 8:18 am local time (0718 GMT), was located 25
kilometres (15 miles) south of Canterbury.


The depth of the epicentre was put at 7.1 kilometres (4.4 miles).


Randy Baldwin, of the US Geological Survey, told BBC television
that the quake was "fairly light," adding that there had been two
or three others in the area over the last decade which were
"somewhat smaller" than Saturday's.


A spokesman for Eurostar, which links Britain to continental
Europe by rail via the Channel Tunnel, said that services at the
Ashford terminal in Kent, near where the quake hit, were
unaffected.


There were reports that the quake was felt up to 100 miles (160
kilometres) away from its epicentre in other southern English
counties such as Essex, East Sussex and Suffolk.

