

Turkish newspapers Saturday urged the government to call early
elections after the army issued a stiff warning on anti-secular
activities and the current presidential election that has
sharpened the divide between secularists and the Islamist-rooted
ruling party.


"The presidential election is turning into a political crisis,"
the mass- circulation Hurriyet newspaper said. "Turkey's only
salvation is in holding an election in the coming months. There
is no other way out".


In an unusually harsh statement late Saturday, the general staff
said it was watching the presidential election with concern and
warned that it was ready to act to defend this mainly Muslim
country's strict secular order.


"The problem that recently came to the forefront of the
presidential election process has focused on the issue of
questioning secularism," the army said. "It should not be
forgotten that the Turkish armed forces are a party to this
debate and staunch defenders of secularism."


It added: "The Turkish armed forces are... against (questioning
secularism)... and will openly and clearly display their position
and attitude when necessary. No one should doubt this," the
statement said.


The statement came only hours after parliament held the first
round of a presidential election in which Islamist-rooted Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul is the sole candidate.


Gul's nomination by the ruling Justice and Development Party
(AKP) has fanned unease in an increasingly polarised society
where many fear the secular order is under threat from a growing
Islamist influence.


The main opposition Republican People's Party, which strongly
opposes the idea of a former Islamist becoming president, on
Friday evening petitioned the Constitutional Court to cancel the
first-round vote on a technicality.


In a front-page editorial, the popular daily Vatan urged all
political parties take the army statement seriously and agree to
early elections at once.


"The quickest way to save Turkey and its future is to convene
parliament at once, hold elections as speedily as possible and
prove to the world that Turkey is mature enough to resolve its
problems democratically," it said.


Many commentators accused Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's
AKP of raising tensions by not seeking a consensus with the
opposition on the choice for the presidency, which is a non-
partisan office.


"It is a democratic embarassment that the presidential election
has been referred to a tribunal rather than being handled by
parliament," the liberal daily Milliyet wrote.


"Erdogan's strategy of waiting until the last moment to announce
a candidate, to prepare a surprise... has bogged down. Ankara is
galloping towards (general) elections at full speed."


The mass-circulation Sabah said Erdogan was "paying the price of
frequently clashing with the opposition."


The Turkish armed forces, which see themselves as the guardians
of the secular system, carried out three coups -- in 1960, 1971
and 1980 -- and forced the resignation in 1997 of the country's
first Islamist prime minister, Necmettin Erbakan.


The army has kept a relatively low profile in recent years as
Ankara conducted democracy reforms to boost its bid to join the
European Union.

