

Estonia's parliament was behind barricades Saturday for the first
time since Soviet tanks tried to crush the independence movement
in 1991, as violence rocked Tallinn for a second night after the
removal of a Soviet war memorial.


Seventy-four people were injured, including nine police officers,
as gangs made up mainly of young Russian speakers ran riot in
Tallinn, smashing the windows of the Art Academy, breaking into
the National Theatre and robbing liquor stores.


Disturbances were also reported in the town of Johvi, 165
kilometres (100 miles) northeast of Tallinn, a region inhabited
mainly by ethnic Russians, marking a worrying trend that the
violence could be spreading throughout this small country of 1.34
million people.


Rioting had first erupted in Tallinn Thursday night when police
tried to prevent a small group of youths from breaking through a
security cordon set up around a towering bronze figure of a Red
Army soldier ahead of the statue's removal.


A 20-year-old died after being stabbed during the first night of
violence and 300 were detained in what officials have called was
the worst unrest to rock Tallinn since Estonia regained
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.


The statue was moved to a secret location in the early hours of
Friday in an attempt to prevent further unrest.


Concrete barricades have been set up along the road leading to
parliament and in front of the legislative building after around
60 youngsters demonstrated outside, shouting "Fascists" in
Russian and calling on Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to come out.


The last time the Estonian parliament was barricaded was in 1991,
when Soviet tanks advanced on Tallinn to crush the drive for
independence from the Soviet Union.


A few hundred people went on the rampage overnight in the town of
Johvi, smashing the windows of buildings and cars and vandalising
a statue of General Aleksander Tonisson, who led an Estonian army
unit against the Russians during Estonia's war of independence in
1918.


The statue of Tonisson, who went on to become mayor of Tallinn
and was executed by the Soviets when they first occupied Estonia
in 1940, was doused in a flammable liquid and set on fire.


Estonia, like its Baltic neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, briefly
enjoyed independence between the two World Wars, before being
occupied by the Soviets at the start of World War II, and then by
the Nazis.


It was forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union at the end of
the war and only regained independence in 1991, when the USSR
crumbled.


The Bronze Soldier Soviet war memorial at the heart of the unrest
is seen by Estonians as a symbol of 50 years of Soviet
occupation, during which tens of thousands of Estonians were
murdered or deported and large numbers of ethnic Russians shipped
in as Moscow tried to 'russify' the Baltics.


Earlier this year, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves called the
statue an insult to Estonians and "a monument to mass murder".


Russia considers it a sacred memorial to the Red Army soldiers
who defeated Nazism in World War II.


Russia reacted angrily after the statue was moved before daybreak
Friday following the first night of riots in Tallinn.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov accused the Estonian
government of fomenting tensions, and the Russian senate approved
a resolution calling for diplomatic relations with Estonia to be
broken off.


Gangs of youths in downtown Tallinn shouted "Rossiya! Rossiya!"
(Russia in Russian) and waved Russian flags in the overnight
unrest, as police tried to keep them away from aggressive
Estonian youths.


Police detained around 600 people, many of them drunken Russian-
speaking teenagers, officials said.


Access to the Estonian government's website was restricted
Saturday after "attacks originating from foreign servers" were
stepped up.


Estonian leaders have called on people not to heed calls to
attend public gatherings.


Deputy speaker of parliament Kristiina Ojuland urged youngsters
not to respond to "provocations" posted on the Internet.


"That's what Russia is waiting for impatiently -- a fight between
Estonian and Russian-speaking young people," she said.


Central Tallinn was calm Saturday morning, according to an AFP
correspondent.

