

Ten people were injured and hundreds arrested in a second night
of rioting in Tallinn after a controversial Soviet war memorial
was removed by the authorities, police said.


"Vandalising and looting is taking place in central Tallinn,"
Raivo Kuut, Tallinn police chief, told reporters late Friday.


"Ten people have needed medical treatment for injuries," he said.


Most of the rioters were Russian-speakers in their teens, police
said.


Rioting was also reported outside of the capital, in the town of
Johvi, 165 kilometres (100 miles) northeast of Tallinn.


"A few hundred people are on the move in the town, smashing the
windows    of buildings and cars," police said in a statement
issued late Friday.


Riot police used water cannon, rubber batons and sound devices to
disperse crowds of vandals who smashed the windows of the Art
Academy in central Tallinn and looted a liquor store nearby.


"We have detained nearly 300 young people, many of them drunk,"
Kuut said.


Police lines attempted to keep aggressive youth groups apart,
pushing them out of the central area, according to an AFP
correspondent on the scene.


Groups of youths shouted "Rossiya! Rossiya!" (Russia in Russian)
and waved Russian flags.


Rioting had first erupted overnight Thursday when police tried to
prevent a small group of youths from breaking through a security
cordon set up around a towering bronze figure of a Red Army
soldier ahead of the statue's removal.


A 20-year-old died after being stabbed during the first night of
violence, which officials have said was the worst unrest to rock
Tallinn since Estonia regained independence from the Soviet Union
in 1991.


The statue was moved to a secret location in the early hours of
Friday, in a bid to prevent further unrest.


Concrete bollards have been set up on the road leading to the
parliament building after around 60 youngsters demonstrated
outside, shouting "Fascists" in Russian and calling on the prime
minister to come out.


The last time the Estonian parliament was barricaded was in 1991,
when Soviet tanks were advancing towards Tallinn to crush the
independence drive of the Baltic state.


A monument to Estonian writer Anton Hansen Tammsaare, located in
a park in central Tallinn, was daubed in white paint in Cyrillic
letters, prompting anger from Estonian youths.


Police managed to keep the Estonian and Russian groups apart at
the  vandalised monument.

