

Insurgents killed at least 14 people in Baghdad on Saturday while
further north a low turnout marked a sombre ceremony on the first
birthday of Saddam Hussein since his execution.


Four humanitarian workers from the Iraqi Red Crescent were killed
and three others wounded when gunmen ambushed their minibus in
Baghdad's mixed Sunni and Shiite district of Zafaraniyah, a
security official said.


The official was not able to provide any further details on what
was latest in a series of attacks on the organisation, one of the
few aid agencies still able to work, with difficulty, amid the
violence.


In December, a group of gunmen abducted dozens of Red Crescent
employees from the group's office in Baghdad. Many of the
hostages were later released, but some are still missing.


In a separate attack in the same neighbourhood on Saturday a
group of garbage collectors stumbled upon a roadside bomb, which
killed one and wounded eight others, the security official said.


In nearby Saydiyah, another mixed district, unidentified gunmen
shot dead five civilians and wounded one, he added.


In Al-Risala, a Shiite district of southern Baghdad, a series of
mortar rounds slammed into a residential area killing three
people and wounding 10 others, including women and children, the
official said.


In the northern Shiite neighborhood of Khadimiyah a civilian was
killed and three others injured when a homemade bomb blew up in a
public market, a police source said.


Insurgents have carried out a steady stream of attacks in
Baghdad, including high-profile car bombs, despite a massive
security crackdown by Iraqi and US troops in the capital since
February 14.


While US commanders say the number of sectarian death squad
murders has declined by about a third since the plan was
launched, a series of large bomb attacks have kept the overall
level of casualties roughly the same.


Small crowds of Iraqi Sunnis, meanwhile, gathered in parts of
northern Iraq on Saturday to mark Saddam's first birthday since
his execution, amid calls to keep the ceremonies low-key.


Around 200 local residents, mostly children between the ages of
seven and 12, gathered at the former dictator's tomb in Awja, his
home village. He was laid to rest there after being hanged on
December 30 for crimes against humanity.


Saddam is entombed inside a hall that used to be a gathering
place for condolence meetings during his former regime. The
farming village lies just outside the city of Tikrit, 180
kilometres (110 miles) north of Baghdad.


"The children of Salaheddin want to celebrate the birthday of the
martyr Saddam Hussein near his tomb. They regard him as their
father," said Fatin Abdul Qadir, the head of a children's
organisation in the province.


The children placed a wreath on the tomb and adorned it with
unlit candles.


"Iraq is caught in the darkness of occupation," she said.


Most Iraqis rejoiced when Saddam was overthrown in a US-led
invasion, but many members of his tribe and some former members
of his ruling Baath Party continue to honour his name.


The bloody chaos that has descended on Iraq in the wake of the
invasion and the controversial way in which Saddam was executed
by the new Shiite-led regime have also hardened support for him
in some Sunni communities.


Ali al-Nida, the chief of the Baijat tribe to which Saddam
belonged, attended the ceremony after initially urging his people
to keep the celebrations small or even to postpone them.


"I told them that the security situation is not suitable. They
must postpone these celebrations until the circumstances improve
and the political reality in Iraq is changed," Nida told AFP.


"Only then can they celebrate the occasion which Iraqis used to
respect before the occupation began on April 9, 2003."


Four years ago, US tanks rolled into Baghdad and marines pulled
down a tall bronze statue of Saddam in the capital's Firdos
Square, marking the toppling of his regime.


The former dictator was hanged after an Iraqi special tribunal
found him guilty of executing 148 Shiites from Dujail, a village
where he had escaped an assassination attempt in 1982.

