

Washington downplayed its differences with Moscow on Friday over
US plans to deploy an anti-missile system in eastern Europe,
after Russian President Vladimir Putin warned the depoyment would
increase the danger of mutual destruction.


"Certainly we understand that there is a difference between us on
the question of missile defense. I think that that is ultimately
an issue that is quite resolvable without any major problems or
conflicts," said Tom Casey, a US State Department spokesman.


"I certainly wouldn't see the placement of 10 interceptors and a
radar system, which are designed ultimately to be able to protect
all the countries in Europe from the limited threat posed by a
rogue nation like Iran launching a missile, as anything that can
conceivably be seen as altering the strategic balance or changing
the fundamental nature of the relationship between Russia and the
West," Casey stressed.


Putin earlier accused the United States of misrepresenting the
true aim of the limited missile shield, which is to be based in
NATO members Czech Republic and Poland.


"The threat of causing mutual damage and even destruction
increases many times," Putin said after a meeting with Czech
President Vaclav Klaus in Moscow, Interfax and ITAR-TASS news
agencies reported.


He dismissed Washington's claim that the US interceptor missiles
would be aimed at shooting down missiles from countries such as
Iran or North Korea, rather than from Russia.


"Neither terrorists, whom they are preparing to defend against,
nor Iran, nor North Korea have such a system," Putin said. "To
talk of terrorists is simply hilarious. They use other methods."


Moscow's opposition to the US deployment is steadily hardening,
fuelling East- West tensions already heightened over differences
on independence for Kosovo, Putin's record on democracy, and
Russian energy export policies.


Casey added: "certainly there are areas where differences exist.
But where they are, we have a good, frank discussion of those
issues. ... "This is something we're going to continue to discuss
with the Russians."


On Thursday, Putin stunned Western capitals when he announced
suspension of Moscow's participation in the Soviet-era
Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, which imposes strict
limits on troop deployments across the continent.


Putin said this was in response to the planned US missile shield.

