

Seventy-four people were injured, including nine police officers,
and some 600 detained in a second night of rioting in Estonia
after a controversial Soviet war memorial was moved from Tallinn,
police said Saturday.


Rioting was also reported for the first time outside the capital,
in the town of Johvi, 165 kilometres (100 miles) northeast of
Tallinn.


"A few hundred people are on the move in the town, smashing the
windows    of buildings and cars," police said in a statement
issued late Friday.


No details were available on whether anyone was injured or
detained in the unrest in Johvi.


Riot police used water cannon, rubber batons and sound devices to
disperse crowds of vandals who smashed the windows of the Art
Academy in central Tallinn and looted a liquor store nearby.


Roving gangs also entered the National Theater, located near a
park in the city centre, but it was unclear if it has been
looted.


Police lines attempted to keep aggressive youth groups apart,
pushing them out of the central area, according to an AFP
correspondent on the scene.


Groups of youths shouted "Rossiya! Rossiya!" (Russia in Russian)
and waved Russian flags.


Rioting had first erupted overnight Thursday when police tried to
prevent a small group of youths from breaking through a security
cordon set up around a towering bronze figure of a Red Army
soldier ahead of the statue's removal.


A 20-year-old died after being stabbed during the first night of
violence and 300 were detained in what officials have called the
worst unrest to rock Tallinn since Estonia regained independence
from the Soviet Union in 1991.


The statue was moved to a secret location in the early hours of
Friday, in a bid to prevent further unrest.


Concrete bollards were set up on the road leading to the
parliament building after around 60 youngsters demonstrated
outside, shouting "Fascists" in Russian and calling on the prime
minister to come out.


The last time the Estonian parliament was barricaded was in 1991,
when Soviet tanks were advancing towards Tallinn to crush the
independence drive of the Baltic state.


A monument to Estonian writer Anton Hansen Tammsaare, located in
a park in central Tallinn, was daubed in white paint in Cyrillic
letters on Friday, prompting anger from Estonian youths.


Police managed to keep the Estonian and Russian groups apart at
the  vandalised monument.


According to an AFP correspondent, the police responded more
quickly and with greater force when violence erupted shortly
before midnight Friday and was quelled after a few hours.


Many of the hundreds detained were Russian-speakers in their
teens, and many were drunk, police said, adding that they will be
released to their parents.


At daybreak Saturday, central Tallinn was calm, according to an
AFP reporter.

