

Pakistan's former prime minister Benazir Bhutto will return to
her homeland by the end of this year and hopes to hold office
again, she said in a newspaper interview published Saturday.


Bhutto also confirmed that she had had "back-channel" contacts
with the regime of President Pervez Musharraf, but denied there
was any "understanding" between them about her future.


"I plan to go back to Pakistan by the end of the year whether Mr
Musharraf would like it or whether he would not like it," she
told the Times, calling for corruption cases against her and
family members to be dropped.


"There have been 'back-channel' contacts with Musharraf for some
time (but) they have not led to an understanding.


"And so all this talk of an 'understanding' I find very
confusing."


Musharraf is negotiating to win Bhutto's support, a minister and
officials said earlier this month, as the president faces a
series of challenges to his rule, including a crisis over the
removal of Pakistan's chief justice.


Bhutto, chair of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP), said it was
too early to start thinking about working alongside Musharraf.


She accused the military leader's party of believing that "they
can rig the election so there's no need for free election or a
future parliament headed by the PPP...which is why it is
premature to talk about working alongside General Musharraf at
this stage."


But she also did not rule out becoming prime minister again, with
Musharraf as president, despite a ban on politicians serving more
than two terms, as she has.


"If the people vote for my party and parliament elects me as
prime minister, it would be an honour for me to take up that role
and General Musharraf would be there as president, so I think
that a good working relationship between him and me would be a
necessity for Pakistan," she said.


Pakistan is expected to hold elections at the end of this year or
early next and the Times said that Bhutto, who is in exile in
Dubai and London, has had high level contacts with Washington and
possibly Britain about her plans.


She said she would not reveal full details about her plans for a
return as she fears being arrested or killed.


"I think the threat very much remains because my politics can
disturb not only the military dictatorship in Pakistan, but it
has a fall-out on Al-Qaeda and a fall-out on the Taliban," she
said in remarks quoted by the paper.


Bhutto stressed that she believed democracy could work in
Pakistan "if the West stops upholding military dictatorships
through their financial and political support."


"Our tragedy has been that the military has been able to exploit
the West's strategic interest in Afghanistan for almost two
decades," she said.

