

Time is running out to cut the greenhouse-gas emissions that
drive climate change, but much can be done at a modest cost to
attack the looming crisis, according to experts gathering for new
talks.


Fierce debate is expected however at the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC) meeting which starts in Bangkok on
Monday to hammer out a new all important summary for governments.


A draft of the report to be agreed by experts on the United
Nation's main authority on climate change says there is scant
time to waste.


"Mitigation efforts over the next two to three decades will
determine to a large extent the long-term global mean temperature
increase and the corresponding climate change impacts that can be
avoided," says the draft which has been seen by AFP.


Using a smart mix of policies and technologies, the cost of
stabilising carbon pollution at nearly 75 percent above today's
levels would be just 0.2 percent of world gross domestic product
(GDP) by 2030.


That price would rise to 0.6 percent of global GDP if the world
stabilised carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions at a level roughly 50
percent higher than today, they calculate.


The sticking points expected at the debat include emissions caps,
taxes on CO2 emissions and references to the Kyoto Protocol -- an
approach that is anathema to President George W. Bush.


There could also be squabbles over nuclear energy as an
alternative to fossil fuels and over carbon storage, a nascent
technology for storing greenhouse gases deep underground.


The report to be released on Friday is the last in a massive
three-volume update of knowledge on climate change, based on the
work of some 2,500 scientists.


But those close to the meeting fear the final document could be
watered down by political pressure.


"The economists are too sharply divided," said one expert from an
international agency, predicting the European Union (EU) would
lock horns with the United States and China over a range of
issues.


The EU has set a goal of reducing its CO2 output by 20 percent by
2020 compared to 1990 levels, while the United States and China,
the world's biggest carbon polluters, fear the cost to their
economies of such ambitious goals.


The IPCC report identifies policies, technologies and measures
that would slow or eventually stop global warming.


Among the options are more efficient use of fossil fuels in
construction, industry and transport; economic or fiscal
mechanisms to spur renewable energies such as wind, solar and
geothermal; and incentives for forestry and farming, which
together account for more than 30 percent of total greenhouse
gases.


Large reductions in CO2 emissions could also be achieved through
creating tougher standards for buildings, motor vehicles and all
electricity-consuming appliances, the report says.


Essential for all measures, however, is setting a "carbon price,"
in other words, handing on pollution costs to producers and
consumers. That would be a powerful carrot for energy efficiency
and low-carbon technology.


To give an example, carbon prices of 20-50 dollars per tonne of
CO2 equivalent, if sustained or increased over decades, could
"decarbonise" the energy industry, says the report.


The higher the price, the greater the potential for reducing
emissions, it adds. If CO2 is priced at 20 dollars per tonne,
emissions of between nine and 18 billion tonnes per year could be
removed; at 100 dollars per tonne, the carbon cleanup jumps to
16-30 billion tonnes.


But what is best for the environment can conflict with a healthy
economy, for oil, gas and coal are likely to remain the
mainspring of the world's energy supply for several decades,
according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).


Economists argue that too high and fast a rise in the carbon
price would send fossil-fuel dependent economies into a tailspin.


The first volume of the IPCC report, issued in February,
predicted that average world temperatures would rise by between
1.8 to 4.0 C (3.2 to 7.2 F) within a wider range of 1.1-6.4 C
(2.0-11.5 F).


The second, released on April 6, warned of severe consequences,
including drought, flooding, violent storms, as well as increased
hunger and disease.

