

The Oakland Warriors dismantled the Dallas Mavericks 109-91 here
Friday to take the lead over the Western Conference top seeds in
the National Basketball Association playoffs.


Playing in front of a raucous crowd in their first home playoff
game in 13 years, Jason Richardson scored 30 points and Baron
Davis added 24 for the Warriors, who took a two-games-to-one lead
in the best-of-seven first-round series.


Andris Biedrins collected 10 points and 10 rebounds for the
Warriors, whose frenetic pace left Dallas scrambling.


After starting the season with four straight losses, Dallas went
on to win a franchise-record 67 games en route to the league's
best record - tied for sixth- best in NBA history - and home-
court advantage throughout the playoffs.


The Mavericks also reeled off three impressive winning streaks of
12 games or more in the regular season, including a 17-game run
from January 27-March 11.


But Golden State - which defeated Dallas three times in the
regular season - has reversed roles in this best-of-seven series.


Executing coach Don Nelson's run-and-gun offense to perfection,
the eighth- seeded Warriors have the Mavericks on their heels.


"We have to make sure we don't let our guard down and continue to
play," said Nelson. "We know who we're playing. We know how good
they are. That's why we feel so lucky to win our second game."


Richardson led the charge, continually driving to the basket to
take advantage of his startling athleticism en route to a
12-of-19 shooting performance.


Davis shot 9-of-18 from the field, seemingly entering the paint
at will - once glaring at Mavericks superstar Dirk Nowitzki after
a particularly impressive finish in the third quarter.


It seemed as though Davis was feeding off the franchise-record
crowd at Oracle Arena. With each drive to the basket or smooth
jump shot, the playoff-starved - but basketball savvy - Oakland
crowd exploded.


Clad in yellow tee-shirts reading "We Believe," Warriors fans
watched their team run out to a nine-point lead after the opening
period and never look back.


Golden State fans had waited a long time for such a great
performance.


In their last home playoff game on May 4, 1994, the Warriors
suffered a 140-133 loss to the Phoenix Suns. Hall of Famer
Charles Barkley scored 56 points for the Suns in that contest.


On Friday, Stephen Jackson collected 16 points, eight rebounds
and six assists for the Warriors, who had five players score in
double figures and shot 48 percent from the field. Jackson was
able to focus his energy on the court, unlike in game two.


The volatile forward was fined 50,000 dollars by the NBA earlier
Friday for failing to leave the court in a timely fashion after
he was ejected in game two.


Nowitzki had 20 points and 12 rebounds and Josh Howard scored 20
for the Mavericks, who shot just 39 percent from the field,
including 4-of-15 on 3-pointers.


Dallas will try to pull even in the series when the Warriors host
game four on Sunday.

