

Wall Street's record-breaking run in the past week has propelled
the Dow Jones Industrial Average above 13,000 for the first time
as strong corporate profits have overshadowed weak economic news.


Yet some market analysts argue that the extraordinary gains will
lead to a pullback soon.


The Dow index of 30 blue chips closed Friday at an all-time high
of 13,120.94, marking a weekly surge of 1.23 percent.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index meanwhile rose
0.65 percent to end the week at 1,494.07 points, edging closer to
its all-time high of 1,527.46 of March 2000.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite spiked 1.22 percent for the week
to 2,557.21.


Some analysts say a pullback is inevitable after the recent
spike, but that any correction will be limited.


"Investors are resetting their outlook on the upside and
scrambling to put money to work in the market. We expect this
process to continue until earnings season begins to wind down in
three weeks," said Frederic Dickson, an analyst at DA Davidson
& Co.


Some of the pullback is likely to be initiated by investors
indulging in a bout of profit-taking following the heady run up
in stock values in the past week.


The gains were boosted by some bumper corporate earnings, such as
those from oil giant ExxonMobil which reported better-than-
expected quarterly profits of 9.28 billion dollars.


However, the stock market is also sailing into a week in which it
will be buffeted by a flurry of economic news and monthly sales
updates from the major auto manufacturers.


Investors will gain fresh updates on consumer spending,
inflation, factory orders and the job market among other reports.


Nonfarm payroll hiring is expected to have declined to 100,000
positions in April from 180,000 in March, while the US
unemployment rate is expected to tick up a notch to 4.5 percent.


But the stock market's rosy performance is not being mirrored in
the wider economy. The government reported Friday that US gross
domestic product (GDP) growth slowed to a much weaker-than-
expected 1.3 percent in the first quarter of the year, marking
its worst pace since the first quarter of 2003.


That news came days after an industry report showed existing
homes sales had slumped a heavy 8.4 percent to an annualized pace
of 6.12 million units in March, marking the biggest monthly fall
in over 18 years.


And although investors will continue to focus on corporate
profits in the week ahead, worsening economic news --
particularly on the consumer and inflation fronts -- could impact
the stock market more heavily going forward.


Some bullish market participants argue, however, that looking
ahead to later in the year, the economy's prospects are set to
brighten.


"The bottom line is that the economy does not appear to be
heading into a recession as many feared a couple of months ago,
but it has definitely slowed," Dickson said.


"We're getting a little bit of disappointment with the GDP
report, but I don't think it's really a concern," said Michael
Malone, an analyst at Cowen & Co.


"The market is still relatively comfortable with the pace of
growth," he said.


Bond prices fell over the past week as investors moved into
stocks.


The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond edged up to 4.698 percent
from 4.672 percent a week earlier while the 30-year bond yield
increased to 4.885 percent from 4.845 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.


Among the companies reporting their latest earnigns in the coming
week will be General Motors and Verizon as well as a cluster of
financial, food and hospitality groups.

