

Five Americans expelled from China after staging an illegal
protest at Mount Everest base camp in Tibet vowed on Saturday to
step up their campaign for a "free Tibet."


China has lodged an official protest with the United States over
Wednesday's protest, in which the Americans called for Tibetan
independence and voiced outrage at the 2008 Olympic torch passing
through the Himalayan region.


"There are people all over the world who are Tibet supporters and
this is just the first of a cascading waterfall of actions," said
Shannon Service, one of the five detained and questioned for two
days before being expelled Friday.


At Wednesday's protest, the Americans unfurled banners demanding
a "free Tibet" and sang the anthem of the Tibetan government-in-
exile before the Chinese detained them, said protestor Tenzin
Dorjee, an American of Tibetan origin.


The protest came a day before the Beijing Olympic Games
organisers formally announced plans to bring the Olympic torch to
the top of the world's highest peak, while also sending the torch
relay through the Tibetan capital Lhasa.


The five were questioned for hours and made to sign a document
apologising for their actions, before being expelled into
neighbouring Nepal Friday, said the activists from the US-based
Students for a Free Tibet.


"We were told we had endangered the security of China," said
Kirsten Westby, another protester.


Beijing has lodged a protest with the United States over the
incident and demanded that Washington prevent similar events in
the future.


"Tibet is an inseparable part of China and the Chinese government
and people will never tolerate any activity aimed at splitting
China," China's foreign ministry said Friday.


The activist group would continue to stage protests both inside
and outside China in the run-up to the 2008 Games, group director
Lhadon Tethong said.


"The situation in Tibet is desperate and the world seems ready to
move on, but the issue is not done. Non-violent actions like this
will continue until Tibet is free," Tethong told reporters.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has violently suppressed a number of uprisings
since then.

