

A onetime New York Mets employee pleaded guilty to distributing
steroids and human growth hormone to "dozens" of major league
baseball players, prosecutors said Friday.


Kirk J. Radomski pleaded guilty on Friday to one count each of
distribution of a controlled substance (anabolic steroids) and
money laundering," US attorney Scott N. Schools said in a
statement.


The guilty plea is the result of an investigation by the Internal
Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI).


Radomski, 37, worked as a clubhouse assitant while with the Mets
from 1985-1995. According to court documents his involvement in
steroids began about the time he left the club.


"In pleading guilty, Mr. Radomski admitted to distributing
anabolic steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs,
including Human Growth Hormone and Clenbuterol, as well as
amphetamines, to dozens of current and former Major League
Baseball players, and associates, on teams throughout Major
League Baseball," Schools said.


"He deposited the payments for those anabolic steroids into his
personal bank account and then used the proceeds to finance his
residence, which was the base of operation, warehouse, and
communication center for his anabolic steroid- dealing business."


Charlene B. Thornton, special agent in charge of the FBI's San
Francisco office said Radomski's guilty plea was the result of a
long-term probe of drugs in sports that is still ongoing.


Radomski has also agreed to cooperate with Major League
Baseball's own investigation into doping in the game, headed by
former Senator George Mitchell.


He is scheduld to be sentenced on September 7 before federal
judge Susan Illston in San Francisco.


Major League Baseball president and chief operating officer Bob
DuPuy released a statement about the plea deal.


"We support the efforts of the US Attorney's office in combating
the illegal use of performance-enhancing substances, and we are
encouraged that the US Attorney has insisted Mr. Radomski
cooperate with senator George Mitchell's investigation as a
condition of the plea agreement," DuPuy said.


"We urge all personnel connected with Major League Baseball to
come forward with whatever information they may have that will
assist Senator Mitchell in his investigation."


According to a report on the New York Daily News website, the MLB
Players Association started calling players Thursday, informing
them of Radomski's situation and advising them to be prepared in
case he had provided any names to prosecutors.

