

Boston starter Daisuke Matsuzaka survived an uneasy fourth inning
as the Red Sox posted an 11-4 victory over the struggling New
York Yankees on Friday.


Japanese star Matsuzaka gave up four runs in the bottom of the
fourth, but Yankees starter Andy Pettitte responded by
surrendering three in the top of the fifth as the Yankees
suffered their seventh straight defeat.


Boston had seized a 2-0 lead on Kevin Youkilis' two-run home run
in the third as Matsuzaka started strong.


The 26-year-old righthander struck out four of the first nine
hitters before losing the strike zone in the fourth.


Matsuzaka opened the fourth by issuing walks to Alex Rodriguez,
Jason Giambi and Hideki Matsui.


After Jorge Posada's bloop single to left field halved the
deficit, Matsuzaka retired Robinson Cano and Doug Mientkiewicz,
but Johnny Damon and Derek Jeter came through.


Damon lined a 3-2 changeup into right field for a two-run single
and Jeter followed with a run-scoring base hit.


The Yankees took 25 minutes to score four times and the long
layoff appeared to negatively impact Pettitte, who fell apart
with one out in the fifth. After Julio Lugo walked, Youkilis
singled and David Ortiz lined an RBI base hit into center field.


Manny Ramirez drew a walk to load the bases and J.D. Drew struck
out. But Pettitte walked Mike Lowell, which tied the game and
uncorked a wild pitch during an at-bat to Jason Varitek, scoring
Ortiz.


Varitek drew the fourth walk of the inning and that forced
manager Joe Torre to go to his bullpen early again as he replaced
Pettitte with Scott Proctor.


Pettitte, who had his start pushed back two days due to
Wednesday's rainout, lasted just 4 2/3 innings and allowed five
runs, six hits and five walks. He threw 100 pitches and his
outing marked the 11th time in 21 games a New York starter failed
to get past the fifth.


As for Matsuzaka, he recovered nicely from the fourth and retired
the side in the fifth and sixth. He allowed four runs and five
hits in six innings while issuing four walks and striking out
seven.


The struggles of Pettitte gave the Yankees their first seven-game
losing streak since September 25-October 1, 2000. Their 8-13
start is also their worst 21-game start since opening the 1991
season with a 7-14 mark.


"Pretty ugly," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "You hope this was
a bottoming out, because it's probably the worst game we've
played all week. "We're much better than this. We just have to
play a better ball game."


Lugo had three hits for the Red Sox, who have a league-leading 15
victories and have won their last six against the Yankees.


He hit a solo home run in the sixth off Proctor and added an RBI
double in the seventh off Luis Vizcaino.


New York closer Mariano Rivera allowed three runs in the eighth
inning to cap the scoring for Boston.

