

AT&T chairman and chief executive Edward Whitacre will retire
with a 158.5 -million-dollar payout, figures released from a
corporate watchdog group showed Friday.


Whitacre's retirement was announced Friday by the US
telecommunications giant. He will be replaced by Randall
Stephenson, AT&T's chief operating officer, on June 3.


The retirement was announced at a shareholders' meeting in San
Antonio, Texas. But the pay package was revealed in documents
sent to the US Securities and Exchange Commission in late March,
according to the Corporate Library, a research group focusing on
corporate governance.


The group said its calculations showed the payout was the third
largest retirement package in US corporate history after the 351
million dollars awarded to departing ExxonMobil chairman Lee
Raymond in 2005 and the 202-million-dollar payout to Richard
Handler, the former head of Wall Street firm Jefferies and Co.


The retirement pay includes a number of components for Whitacre,
who will remain a consultant to AT&T over the next three
years. It includes the use of a company jet, automobile, and
medical care.


Some shareholders had asked for cutbacks to the package at
Friday's gathering.


According to AT&T, Whitacre, 65, led a "transformation of the
smallest 'Baby Bell' into the world's largest communications
company and reshaped the company and the industry during a period
of rapid technological change."


The Texas-born Whitacre, an engineer by training, has led the
company for the past 17 years.


He took over in 1990 when the firm was known as Southwestern
Bell, one of the "Baby Bells" created from the antitrust breakup
in the 1980s of American Telephone & Telegraph.


Through a series of mergers, Southwestern Bell became known as
SBC and eventually bought its former parent, AT&T, which had
been designated a long- distance calling company after the
breakup.


The news came amid a growing outcry over extravagant pay packages
for US corporate executives, which has moved from boardrooms to
Congress and now even to the White House and President George W.
Bush.


Some lawmakers have called for more transparency and limits on
executive pay. Bush, in a visit to Wall Street in February, urged
corporate boards to tie lavish pay and bonuses to job
performance.


Some analysts say that even though US executives are often paid
more than their counterparts at other multinational firms, they
deliver more to shareholders as well.


A survey by the consultancy Watson Wyatt found some correlation
between better performing companies and CEO compensation.


Jeff Kagan, a telecom industry analyst, said Whitacre was a key
figure in transforming the telecom industry.


"I don't normally comment on pay," Kagan said. "But we have to
remember, he has transformed the company from the smallest of the
Baby Bells to the largest competitor in the industry. That is an
amazing accomplishment."


Documents submitted to shareholders showed Whitacre would receive
"automobile benefits" estimated at 24,000 dollars annually;
access to corporate aircraft for up to 10 hours of usage per
month, worth 20,000 dollars; use of office facilities and support
staff; home security costs estimated at 6,500


dollars; and payment to cover taxes for the benefits except for
aircraft use.


He and his spouse would also get health and welfare benefits
"equal to those which he received while employed."

