

Thousands of history textbooks are being confiscated in
Indonesian schools for failing to use official language to
describe a botched and bloody coup in 1965, a dark period in the
nation's history.


Authorities have been seizing the books in secondary schools on
orders from the Indonesian government, which remains highly
sensitive about the coup, blamed on the communist party and
responsible for a backlash against communists that claimed
hundreds of thousands of lives.


The controversial texts deal with a group of military officers
who executed six generals on September 30, 1965, claiming they
were protecting then president Sukarno against a plot to
overthrow him.


Within hours, general Suharto, head of the army's Strategic
Reserve, counteracted, gained control of the capital and put down
the putsch.


Authorities have long insisted that the outlawed Indonesian
Communist Party was behind the coup, but some historians say the
military orchestrated the putsch to tighten its grip on power and
wipe out communism thriving in the nation.


Indonesia's attorney general banned the books last month because
they do not include the letters PKI, the acronym for the
communist party, when referring to the coup -- known in Indonesia
as the Gerakan 30 September, or G30S.


The books failed to state the facts and challenged "accepted
truths" which could create public disorder, the attorney
general's office said.


In Makassar, capital of South Sulawesi province, nearly 14,000
books were confiscated last week, according to the official news
agency Antara.


"We are only in charge of collecting the books. We'll send them
all to the prosecutor's office," said Rugayah, chief of the
headmasters of secondary schools association, charged with
pulling the books.


The move was condemned by teachers, historians and activists,
concerned authorities were once again stifling debate about this
controversial period.


"The taboo on speaking about G30S has been broken. Moreover, many
now feel that Indonesian children have a right to know the
historical truth on this and other questions," Indonesian expert
Glenn Smith told AFP.


"There is ample evidence that some top members of the PKI were
involved, but much controversy still exists over their precise
role. It's unclear who was controlling who, and what other forces
were involved in the G30S," he said.


The PKI, at that time the largest such party in the world not in
power, boasted three million members and 20 million supporters,
from villagers to intellectuals.


For the next six months, they faced a ferocious repression, with
between 500,000 and one million people massacred in one of the
worst blood baths of the 20th century.


Robert Cribb, an Indonesia expert from the Australian National
University, said portraying the PKI in the blackest terms helped
Suharto deflect concern about his own crimes.


Suharto, who went on to rule Indonesia with an iron fist, banned
questioning of the official version of G30S during his
dictatorship, but after his fall in 1998 debate thrived.


Some historians suggest Suharto and the CIA, fearing the spread
of communism through Asia, were involved.


Despite tolerating such debate, the government continues to
overreact if the long accepted version is challenged in schools,
historians said.


"The current political order does not depend at all on demonising
the PKI, so why continue to do so?" Cribb said.


"Banning the textbooks in this context is not a well thought out
strategy, but rather simply holding the line against evil, making
sure that it does not get a chance to infiltrate back into
Indonesian hearts," he added.


Asvi Warman Adam, historian from the state Indonesian Institute
of Sciences, agreed, adding that the attorney general had acted
under pressure from influential right wingers over the new texts.


"These people believed that there was an effort to deviate from
history by scrapping the blaming of the rebellion on the PKI,"
Adam told AFP.


Antonie Dake, a Dutch expert on Indonesian communism, has another
theory about the coup. He said the G30S was planned by president
Sukarno to get rid of anti- communist generals, an argument
published in a book.


The book, "The Sukarno File", has angered Sukarno's family,
particularly his daughter, former president Megawati
Sukarnoputri, and a complaint has been lodged with the attorney
general's office.


"The way to correct, if necessary, the opinion, to be found in
'The Sukarno File' is to my mind conduct an open discussion, as
already under way in Indonesia, and not by proscribing that
opinion," he told AFP in an email.


"For Indonesia that would be old fashioned and ridiculous."

