

US generals came under fire Friday in a stinging critique by a
mid-level officer and combat veteran who charged that as a whole
they repeated the mistakes of Vietnam in Iraq.


Lieutenant Colonel Paul Yingling said the generals failed to
prepare the military for counter-insurgency warfare, kept silent
when the country went to war with too few troops, and botched the
post-invasion occupation.


"In 2007, Iraq's grave and deteriorating condition offers
diminishing hope for an American victory and portends risk of an
even wider and more destructive regional war," Yingling wrote in
an essay published in the Armed Forces Journal.


"These debacles are not attributable to individual failures, but
rather to a crisis in an entire institution: America's general
officer corps," he wrote.


The deputy commander of the army's 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment,
Yingling has served two combat tours in Iraq, and before that
tours in Bosnia and the 1991 Gulf War.


It was unclear how broadly his views are shared within the US
officer corps.


But he told The Washington Post, which first reported on the
essay, that it received "almost universal approval" from officers
of his rank and below who read it before publication.


Until now, US military leaders have largely escaped the intense
criticism that last year drove defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld
from office.


Without singling out specific military leaders for blame,
Yingling broadly faults the army for producing generals trained
to please their superiors and conform to the conventional wisdom.


"The intellectual and moral failures common to America's general
officer corps in Vietnam and Iraq constitute a crisis in American
generalship," he wrote. "Any explanation that fixes culpability
on individuals is insufficient."


He said the most fundamental miscalculation of the Iraq war was
the failure to commit sufficient troops to provide security to
the population.


Military estimates of the troop levels needed for such an
operation ranged from 380,000 in a 1998 war plan to as many as
470,000 in an army study that used Bosnia and Kosovo as a model
for predicting troops requirements, he said.


"Given the lack of troop strength, not even the most brilliant
general could have devised the ways necessary to stabilize post-
Saddam Iraq," Yingling wrote. "However, inept planning for
postwar Iraq took the crisis caused by a lack of troops and
quickly transformed it into a debacle."


"The military never explained to the president the magnitude of
the challenges inherent in stabilizing postwar Iraq," he said.


They then concentrated US forces in large bases that were
isolated from the Iraqi people and gave short shrift to efforts
to develop local security forces and provide essential services,
he wrote.


Finding themselves in the midst of a growing insurgency, they
played down its intensity.


"For reasons that are not yet clear, America's general officer
corps underestimated the strength of the enemy, overestimated the
capabilities of Iraq's government and security forces and failed
to provide Congress with an accurate assessment of security
conditions in Iraq," Yingling wrote.


"Moreover, America's generals have not explained clearly the
larger strategic risks of committing so large a portion of the
nation's deployable land power to a single theater of
operations," he said.


Military leaders have now begun to acknowledge shortcomings in
recent "tell-all" books, but not when the US went to war with
less than half the strength needed to win, he said.


"Now that the public is immediately concerned with the crisis in
Iraq, some of our generals are finding their voices. They may
have waited too long," he wrote.

