

Yoga, the ancient Indian discipline whose aim is to join mind,
body and soul, is being transformed by Western capitalism into
franchises and pricey products, according to a documentary film.


"Yoga, Inc." made its debut this week at the 10-day Toronto
international documentary film festival, Hot Docs, which winds up
Sunday.


"When an industry is that big, commercialization is unavoidable,
and there will always be people swimming around the edges who are
ready to cash in," said New York-based filmmaker John Philp in an
interview with AFP.


But for a practice that is "rooted in renunciation" it is odd
that it is making some people rich, he added.


Yoga, the film shows, is an l8-billion-(US) dollar industry with
moguls such as Los Angeles superstar yoga teacher Bikram
Choudhury and his more than 750 franchised studios worldwide
leading the way.


The word itself is used to promote everything from vodka to
chakra panties.


Philp, who previously tracked the career of former New York City
mayor Rudy Giuliani in his film "Rudyworld," said he was
intrigued by the dissonance between the sports-like notion of
competition and the yogic ideals of serenity and enlightenment.


The film explores the clash between karma and capitalism by
focusing on a court battle between a group of yoga teachers
calling themselves the Open Source Yoga Unity and the flamboyant
yoga impresario Bikram.


In 2003, Bikram threatened to sue the yoga teachers for copyright
infringement. His standardized "Hot Yoga" routines feature 26
poses performed in 30-plus C (86-plus F) heat.


Philp is not surprised by yoga's commercialization. In the l960s,
he said, yoga fit in with counterculture values, but today most
people in the West view yoga as a form of fitness.


"Instead of learning yoga for its meditative and spiritual
effects, most people want to look good naked and touch their
toes," he said.


The film also follows yoga entrepreneurs Rob Wrubel and George
Lichter, who founded and sold the search engine Ask Jeeves and
are now opening studios called Yoga Works.


"We bristle at the word chain; we are a family of yoga schools,"
insists Wrubel. Yet, small independent yoga studios are closing,
crushed by competition from franchises and gyms.


Most of these small-studio owners are women, remarked Philp,
while the successful entrepreneurs and high-profile teachers like
Bikram are men.


"It's a male-dominated field, even though women are 75 percent of
the people who take yoga classes."


As a senior yoga teacher, Alan Finger says in the film: "The
universe is behind this, not us, and yoga will go exactly where
it needs to go."


That direction, however, is still not clearly revealed.


In 2005, a California judge ruled that Bikram's system was
copyright protected, and he then reached a confidential agreement
with the group of yoga teachers involved in the case.


However, Philp notes that "there is still no law on the books
that says you can or cannot copyright a yoga routine."


And now, the Indian government has stepped up to the mat.


Last year it developed a National Knowledge Digital Library, an
online data base that includes traditional Indian healing and
spiritual practices to try to protect these practices against
patents and copyright laws.

