

The central Philippine province of Masbate has the distinction of
not only being one of the country's poorest but also one of its
most violent.


It is an island that has been dominated by powerful families for
as long as anyone can remember and where patronage and murder
have become accepted facts of political life.


The list of Masbate governors, mayors and congressmen who have
been murdered over the last 20 years alone is a long and
distinguished one.


Since campaigning began in January for next month's mid-term
elections ambushes and shootouts between rival political groups
have left at least five people dead.


As a result the head of Masbate's police force, Senior
Superintendant Teodoro Caparoso, was relieved of his command.


It was against this background that the Bishop of Masbate, Joel
Baylon, said "enough is enough" and called the candidates
together to try and avert more bloodshed.


Sitting in his modestly furnished office next door to his church,
Bishop Baylon said the move was a "call for civility".


"It was more than a symbolic gesture on the part of the church,"
he told AFP.


Dressed in black trousers and white shirt with a simple gold
cross pinned to his collar Bishop Baylon, 53, described
Philippines politics as built on three pillars -- "greed,
patronage and fear".


He said: "Masbate is a microcosm of all that is wrong with the
Philippines. Outsiders see us as barbaric and not as civilized
people."


He said Masbate -- the capital has the same name as the island --
was normally a quiet province but at election time it began to
resemble the "wild west, an oblique reference to its role as the
centre of the national cattle industry.


"People are afraid to speak up for themselves so they asked me to
speak for them" he said.


"I told the politicians they should be looking at getting people
out of poverty, educating the children, and not killing their
political rivals."


He said there were more cock-fighting pits in the province than
health centres.


"For years now Masbate has been on the list of the poorest
provinces in the country. Why?


"Talk to most of our politicians and they will tell you Masbate
is rich in natural resources, fish and marine life and cattle.
But the question is: where does all this wealth go?


"Do our people benefit from these blessings? The sad answer is
no."


Leaning back in his wooden chair, papers stacked neatly on his
desk, he said: "In my nine years as bishop I have toured nearly
every barangay (village) in the province and I can tell you now
that the vast majority of people live and die poor and this is
supposed to be the 21st Century."


He said some politicians were surprised by his remarks.


"One prominent local politician later told me: 'Why should we
change the way politics is conducted here. If we do that they
(people) will become ungrateful'.


"Have I given up hope? No, there are some (politicians) who
really want to see change in the way Masbate, and the country for
that matter, is run but the enlightened ones are still in the
minority," he said.


He said decades of patronage and corruption had seen some of the
more prominent families in Masbate prosper at the expense of the
poor.


The population of Masbate according to the last census in 2000
was 707,668 with an annual birth rate of 1.7 percent. It has been
estimated that within the next 40 years the population of the
province will double.


National statistics for 2002 show that 35 percent of Masbate's
families have access to clean water, 48 percent have access to
toilets, 31 percent to electricity and 34 percent to health
facilities.


Data compiled by the National Statistics Coordination Board show
that 62 percent of Masbate's population live in poverty with 37
percent earning the province's minimum income which is about
11,488 (about 250 dollars) a month.


"Just drive around Masbate and you will see that there is little
development. But people are happy receiving a rice cooker or a
few hundred pesos from political leaders for support," said the
bishop.


According to government data Masbate is the third poorest of the
Philippines 77 provinces, behind Negros Oriental and Samar.


Bishop Baylon described politics in the province as the "altar of
greed -- where the powerful few grow richer at the expense of the
poor and where political opponents are killed.


"How can you call a system like this democratic? What worries me
is all this political violence has started to be accepted as
normal," he said.


Bishop Baylon said election violence was also a "sad reflection
on the Church".


He said: "We can do more and we are trying to do more but it is a
long, long process. The church is not rich as many people would
like to think.


"Ordinary people of Masbate want change in the way politics is
run. That is probably a view shared by the majority of Filipinos.


"They want their dignity restored. They want hope and above all
peace."

