

As gusty winds blew newly installed world No. 1 and defending
champion Lorena Ochoa off course on Friday, LPGA rookie Angela
Park made her move at the Corona Championship.


Park, a Brazilian citizen of Korean heritage who spent part of
her childhood in California, fired a career-best 8-under-par 65
to move into a three-way tie for first place in the second round
of the 1.3 million-dollar tournament.


She shared the lead with Italy's Silvia Cavalleri (68) and
Taiwan's Yu Ping Lin (65) at 9-under 137.


Park said she was delighted to find herself atop the leaderboard
on her first visit to Morelia.


"I didn't expect much," she said. "Every tournament I come out
and try to do my best. I knew low scores were a possibility.
Short irons into the greens are important, which are the strong
part of my game. I was confident coming out, but wanted to get
adjusted to the altitude and hills. I got in Saturday and played
a couple times, so it was a little advantage."


Ochoa, hoping to reward her adoring home fans with a victory this
week - which would also celebrate her ascent to the world No. 1
spot long held by Annika Sorenstam - carded a 1-over 74 at the
windy Tres Marias course and fell into a tie for 16th.


The reigning Player of Year had started the day one shot off the
lead.


"It's always tougher playing in the afternoon," Ochoa said. "I
said yesterday 2- or 3-under would be a great score and I was
fine at the turn, I had more troubles on the second nine holes. I
don't blame the wind, because I play well in the wind.


"I lost confidence inthe end, but I'm still in the tournament and
now it's time to become more aggressive to try to get into the
final group on Sunday."


British-born South Korean Sarah Lee was a shot off the lead after
matching an LPGA Tour record for nine holes with a 6-under 28 on
the front nine - her final nine.


Posting an eagle on the par-5 eighth, she finished with a 66.


Making just her seventh career start, Park finished with a
flourish, with birdies on her final five holes and six of her
last seven.


She ended up with nine birdies against just one bogey.


"I wasn't even keeping track after the second one," Park said of
her closing run of birdies. "On the last hole, going into the
scoring tent, I had no idea until I was going over my scorecard
that I had five straight birdies."


Lin, who missed the cut in her three previous starts, carded
eight birdies during a bogey-free round.


"It feels great," she said. "I haven't had eight birdies in one
round for a while. Yesterday, I had a lot of birdie chances, but
I wasn't putting well. Today, the putts were going in."


Cavalleri also had a bogey free effort, with her five birdies
including three at par-fives.


While she likes the course, she said weather conditions could see
it play tougher at the weekend.


"The wind swirls on the back nine and, when you play across the
canyon, you don't know where the wind will go. It's tough," she
said. "Without the wind, it plays easier."

