

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene believes that Australia can
be beaten in the World Cup final here on Saturday because they
are human, not supermen.


"Obviously they are a very good side, but they are also humans
and in 100 overs people do make mistakes and we need to
capitalise on them," Jayawardene said on the eve of the match.


"I think to play them you need to be competitive from the first
ball itself. We have to make sure we play really good cricket
because they come hard at you in the first hour or so, whether
you bat or bowl."


Australia have been on a roll since losing a league match to
Pakistan in the 1999 World Cup in England. They are unbeaten in
their last 28 matches in the tournament, with 21 wins coming
under Ricky Ponting's captaincy.


Australia are now on the verge of making history as they are
aiming to become the first team to complete a hat-trick of
titles, having emerged champions in 1999 and 2003.


Sri Lanka have already suffered defeat against Australia in a
Super Eights game of the ongoing tournament, but Jayawardene said
he did not believe that the opposition had any psychological
advantage going into the final.


"We made a lot of mistakes in that game, and against Australia
you can't do that. I think we have learned our lessons. The guys
know exactly what we need to do now," said Jayawardene.


"The important thing for us is to play the brand of cricket we
have been playing in the tournament. If we do that we can beat
any side in the world. They have not been pushed, but anything
can happen on Saturday."


Sri Lanka were the last team to stop Australia in the final when
they beat Mark Taylor's side by seven wickets at Lahore in 1996.


"Sri Lankan cricket has come a long way. Before 1996, we were
like amateurs," said Jayawardene.


"The guys who then played the game went through a lot of hard
times and that's why I say the 1996 group changed the whole
concept of Sri Lankan cricket. We are reaping rewards for that
and have moved forward.


"Now we need to work harder so that in future we can achieve more
success because all those guys worked hard at that time. We are
heading in the right direction but still need to work harder."


Jayawardene conceded that Australian coach Tom Moody played a key
role in the team's recent successes, including eight victories in
10 matches of the ongoing tournament.


"Tom has been brilliant. As a group, we always had the talent but
Tom has brought soemthing different on the table for us. We all
had the talent, but we never expected us to push ourselves thus
far," he said.


"He is a World Cup winner and knows how important it is to be
mentally tougher going into a game like this. He has made a big
difference to this bunch and a lot of guys have improved a lot."


Jayawardene also defended the team's decision to rest spinner
Muttiah Muralitharan and paceman Chaminda Vaas against Australia
in the last game, saying they had wanted to keep the bowlers
fresh for big contests.


"It served the purpose. They looked fresh in the semi-final and
are now raring to go against Australia," he said.


"A lot of people said that we did not want to show what we got,
but the Australians have played Vaas and Murali before, so there
was nothing to hide."

