

BMW Oracle, which leads the Louis Vuitton challenge for the
America's Cup, is aiming to end the first stage of round robin
regattas here Saturday with a perfect score of 10 out of 10.


The American yacht, backed by Larry Ellison, the seventh richest
man in the world and founder of the software giant after which
the team is named, has proved unbeatable since battle commenced
here last week.


Chris Dickson's crew go into Saturday's match-ups against arch
rivals Emirates Team New Zealand in round 11 and earlier home
side Desafio Espanol having swept through their first eight
races.


That's left Oracle, whose bid for the yachting blue riband is put
at an estimated 150 million dollars, atop the Louis Vuitton
standings on 19 points with the Kiwis, who have won six of their
eight races, in second on 16 points.


Former America's Cup finalists Luna Rossa of Italy and the
Spaniards come next on 15 points with Mascalzone Latino one point
adrift in fourth.


The top four go through to the semi-finals which are scheduled to
start on May 14 with the Louis Vuitton final slated to begin on
June 1.


The winner then has an 11 day break before setting out on the
daunting task of facing Swsis defender Alinghi in the best of
nine match series for the 32nd America's Cup.


The opening exchanges in this three month long competition have
been severely disrupted by weak winds and Saturday's forecast -
light Northeasterly winds of five to seven knots, right on the
margin of the lower limit for racing - is hardly encouraging


One of Friday's races ended in drama when the French boat Areva
Challenge beat South African debutants Team Shosholoza only to
get disqualified after race offiicals judged they had failed to
cross the virtual finish line.


The French appealed but to no avail.


According to principal race officer Peter Reggio at no time was
the entire Areva Challenge boat, FRA 93, across the line.


Turning down their appeal the race jury said: "From the evidence
presented, the Jury is not satisfied that Areva Challenge sailed
completely to the course side of the finishing line after
completing its penalty.


"In cases where the judgement of the Race Committee is being
questioned, the Jury needs clear and convincing evidence to reach
a conclusion that the action of the Race Committee was improper.
The evidence did not meet that standard. The request is denied."


That leaves the misfiring Areva Challenge in eighth, on nine
points and with a mountain to climb to claim a last four berth.


The second series of round robin races is due to start on Sunday.

