

The Northern Bulls kept alive their hopes of playing in their
third straight Super 14 rugby semi-final when they downed the
Auckland Blues 40-19 here at Loftus Versfeld on Friday night.


The men from Pretoria scored four tries to earn a valuable bonus
point while the only try for the men from Auckland came after the
hooter had sounded after 80 gruelling minutes.


It was a third straight defeat for the Blues who came into the
game after suffering defeats to the Coastal Sharks in Auckland
and the Western Stormers in Cape Town. The Bulls were coming off
big wins over the Stormers and Lions in which they picked up five
log points in each.


The win saw the Bulls into third spot with 37 log points behind
the Canterbury Crusaders and Blues, also with 37 points, but the
New Zealanders' points difference is 17 better than the Bulls.


In the final round of action next weekend in the southern
hemisphere inter- provincial Super 14 competition the Blues face
the Western Force in Perth and the Bulls host the Queensland
Reds.


The men from Auckland raced into a 9-0 lead inside the first 10
minutes thanks to three penalties by flyhalf Isa Nacewa, but the
rest of the first period belonged solely to the home side.


Home team flyhalf Derick Hougaard struck two penalties around the
midway mark of the opening half and then with 10 minutes to go to
the break, hard-working flanker Wikus van Heerden scored his
team's first try after a period of good build up work by the
Bulls pack.


Hougaard added the extras for a deserved 13-9 lead.


With Victor Matfield dominating in the lineouts and his teammates
enjoying superiority at the points of contact the Bulls slowly
got the upperhand. The handling and discipline by the home side
also improved as the contest went on and it wasn't long before
the Blues were doing all the defending.


The Bulls then stretched their lead on the stroke of half-time
when scrumhalf Fourie du Preez stole the ball at a Blues scrum
and after dashing down the right touchline, offloaded to a
charging Pedrie Wannenburg who went over for a converted try.


The teams changed sides with the home side 20-9 up and the
intensity didn't fade in the second period.


While there were few genuine try-scoring chances, there were
plenty of big hits and fiercely contested battles for possession.
For a game of such physicality both sides deserve credit for
their discipline and for maintaining the skills levels.


The Blues reduced the deficit to just eight points with a quarter
of the match remaining when he struck his fourth penalty, but 10
minutes later Hougaard knocked over his third attempt at goal to
again put his side 11 points clear.


A minute later the home side wrapped up the result when Du Preez
ran all of 50 metres to score under the uprights after pouncing
on the ball when Blues centre Sam Tuitupou failed to control a
pass from Daniel Braid.


Hougaard's conversion made it 30-12. The Bulls No 10 then added a
drop-goal before replacement scrumhalf Heini Adams scored the
all-important fourth try after a superb Bulls break-out from
inside their own 22 metres area.


Jaco van der Westhuyzen sent Bryan Habana on his way and when he
was stopped short of the line, Adams was on hand to dive over
under the posts. The Blues scored their only try at the death
when skipper Troy Flavell found a way through the Bulls'
defences.


Nacewa turned it into a seven-pointer, but it was a defeat that
leaves the Aucklanders in danger of missing out on a spot in the
playoffs.

