

Boston Red Sox ace Curt Schilling, angry at having a career-
defining moment called into question, struck back on Friday.


On his personal website, Schilling offered a one million-dollar
wager for charity to anyone who could prove the blood that
appeared to soak through one of his socks in a 2004 playoff game
was fake.


In order to make the the start in game six of the 2004 American
League Championship Series against the New York Yankees,
Schilling had a tendon in his right ankle stitched in place so it
wouldn't flop over the bone.


With blood seeping through his sock, Schilling allowed one run
over seven innings in a dramatic 4-2 triumph. Boston went on to
win game seven, becoming the first team to comeback from a three-
games-to-none deficit to win a playoff series.


They then swept the World Series to end an 86-year championship
drought.


But speculation regarding the nature of the substance on the sock
arose Wednesday when Baltimore Orioles broadcaster Gary Thorne
claimed that Schilling had red paint - not blood - on his sock.


"My only real problem is not that Gary Thorne said something
stupid and ignorant - which he did - but that without a word
being uttered by anyone in our clubhouse this somehow became a
major news story," Schilling said on his website, 38pitches.com.


And Schilling offered a challenge.


"I'll wager one million dollars to the charity of anyone's
choice, versus the same amount to ALS (Schilling's charity for
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis research)," he said. "If the blood
on the sock is fake, I'll donate a million dollars to that
person's charity. ... Any takers?"


Thorne had said he was told by Boston catcher Doug Mirabelli that
it wasn't really blood from Schilling's injured ankle that
stained his sock.


Mirabelli emphatically denied saying any such thing, prompting
Thorne to apologize and say he had misunderstood.


A six-time All-Star, Schilling has gotten off to a strong start
this season, going 3-1 with a 3.27 ERA in his first five outings.
His consistency has helped propel the Red Sox to a 14-7 record -
baseball's best record.


"It's 2007, and this team has got a great thing going," Schilling
said.  "The last thing we need is an idiotic distraction that
shouldn't even exist."

