

England's Luke Donald captured the halfway lead in the 6.3
million-dollar Byron Nelson Championship on Friday, with
defending champion Brett Wetterich in a trio sharing second.


Donald, on the rise after a disappointing early season, carded a
66 for 133.


He stalked the leaders all day, finally moving atop the board
with a chip-in for birdie from 45 feet at the par-3 17th hole at
the Four Seasons TPC host course.


Given his excellent record here - his past 10 rounds have been in
the 60s - there is no reason to think Donald won't be in
contention on Sunday.


"I've always been very consistent around here," said Donald, a
member of last year's victorious European Ryder Cup team. "It's
not about hitting the driver every hole. You don't have to
overpower it, don't have to be ultra-long.


"I've driven it well this week, kept it in play and not made many
mistakes.  I'm hitting a decent amount of greens, and when I'm
missing greens, I'm (chipping) it close."


Wetterich, an unheralded journeyman when he won here last year,
nabbed two birdies in a 2-under-68 at Cottonwood Valley, the
second course in use for the tournament.


"Anytime you don't make a bogey, it's a good day," Wetterich
said.


Wetterich joined first-round leader Sean O'Hair (69) and Swede
Fredrik Jacobson (67) in a tie for second at 6-under 134.


"There could have been a few more birdies, but I also could have
made a couple of bogeys, Wetterich said. "I made a couple of good
pars, and that kept my round going.


"I'm not sure if I'm the horse for this course, but I've played
well here. Maybe I'm just hitting the ball good or playing well
at the time I come here."


After his triumph here last year, Wetterich went on to earn a
spot on the US Ryder Cup team.


Last month he shared the half-way lead at the Masters, albeit
before blowing up with a third-round 83.


"The middle to last part of last year, I felt I was starting to
play really good and to understand how to play out here and get
things done," he said. "Even this year, I feel like I'm better
than I was towards the end of last year, so it's been a work in
progress, but I think it's going the right way."


O'Hair, meanwhile, eagled the par-5 seventh with an unlikely
chip-in, but surrendered the lead by dropping two shots on the
back nine.


"I didn't have much to work with," he said of his eagle chip-in.
"The chip was on a downhill slope in some nasty rough, about five
paces off the green.


"It was one of those shots where you just do the best you can
and, luckily, it went in the hole. I was just trying to keep it
somewhere around the hole so I could have a decent putt at it."


Only eight strokes separated the 73 players who made the cut.


Among those within striking distance of the lead was Phil
Mickelson, six shots from the lead.


Mickelson knew he should have been closer, after playing the back
nine at Cottonwood Valley in 2-over.


"I played OK, but I missed five putts inside six feet," Mickelson
said. "That's what hurt, but I shot even par, and I've got a shot
at it this weekend."

