

Australia will embrace the next generation of nuclear power
plants and ease restrictions on uranium mining under a long-term
plan to address climate change, Prime Minister John Howard said
Saturday.


Howard said Australia could not afford to ignore the nuclear
option if it was serious about meeting the challenge of climate
change.


Howard said it was a "stark reality" that only fossil and nuclear
fuels were capable of firing the power plants required to meet
Australia's needs, unlike renewable energy sources such as wind
and solar power.


He said Australia, which has abundant reserves of both coal and
uranium, had to examine how to incorporate nuclear power into its
long-term energy plans.


"Inevitably part of the solution must be to admit, in years to
come, nuclear power into this country," Howard told a Liberal
Party conference in Victoria state.


"That's why I'm announcing today a strategy for the future
development of uranium mining and nuclear power in Australia.


"I believe it to be our responsibility, if we are serious about
tackling the problems of climate change, to embrace and promote
clean coal technology, to put the nuclear option on the table."


Australia currently has only one nuclear reactor, which is used
to produce isotopes for medical research.


Howard said Australia needed to start planning its nuclear future
immediately, including participating in development of the fourth
generation of nuclear reactors, which are not expected to be
ready until 2030.


"We need to take some immediate action to remove unnecessary
constraints impeding the expansion of uranium mining and to make
a firm commitment Australia's participation in the generation
four advanced nuclear reactor research programme," he said.


The prime minister said nuclear power plants were now a proven
technology.


"I'm not talking here about something that's revolutionary and
untried," he said. "Fifteen percent of the world's electricity is
generated by nuclear power, France generates 80 percent of her
energy by nuclear power, California 27 percent."


Howard, whose conservative government will seek a fifth term
later this year, has frequently expressed scepticism about global
warming but recently softened his view as opinion polls show
widespread public concern on the issue.


His enthusiastic championing of nuclear energy contrasts with the
centre-left opposition Labor Party's cautious approach to the
issue as the election looms.


Labor's national party conference Saturday is expected to dump
its long-standing opposition to new uranium mines in Australia.
It remains opposed to nuclear power plants.

