

New clashes between Taliban and troops left 23 rebels and two
policemen dead, officials said Saturday, as the rebels announced
they freed a female French hostage but not four men taken with
her.


The woman, among a group of five people working for a French
children's non- governmental organisation who were captured more
than three weeks ago, was freed in the southern province of
Kandahar, a Taliban spokesman said.


"We have extended the deadline for the French man and three
Afghan hostages for another week," Yousuf Ahmadi said.


The woman, who has been named in the media only as Celine, was
carrying a message to the French government that it must "cut its
military assistance to Afghanistan," he said.


Afghan authorities and the French embassy could not immediately
confirm her release.


Taliban rebels meanwhile stormed a district administrative
headquarters in the eastern province of Khost late Friday,
sparking a battle that was joined by NATO helicopters and left at
least 13 rebels dead, a provincial governor said.


The militants were hit by a NATO air strike as they were
retreating after the attack in Alishar district, on the border
with Pakistan, provincial governor Arsala Jamal told AFP.


"There are 13 Taliban bodies at the battle site now," he said.
"Blood stains in the area suggest there must have been more than
13 killed or wounded taken out of the area."


"It was the NATO helicopters who caused the major blow to the
enemy," said provincial police spokesman Wazir Badshah.


A spokesman with NATO's International Security Assistance Force
in Khost, Major Donald Korpi, confirmed the force had sent in air
support after a request from police.


Korpi could confirm only 10 dead but said the number might be
higher.


Khost has seen a surge of attacks since a controversial deal last
year with tribal authorities in Pakistan's adjoining North
Waziristan area saw the government scale down it presence.


In a separate incident, Afghan and US-led coalition forces killed
10 Taliban militants in a ground and air "engagement" early
Saturday in the southern province of Helmand, a coalition
statement said.


The militants attacked a coalition convoy in Gereshk district,
initiating a battle. The troops returned fire, destroying two
buildings from which the attack came and killing the 10, the
release said.


In the southeastern province of Ghazni, a police post came under
attack from Taliban fighters in Ab Band district. Two policemen
were killed and three abducted, provincial police chief Alishah
Ahmadi said.


Southern and southeastern Afghanistan see most of the violence
linked to an insurgency launched by the Taliban, toppled from
government in late 2001, but attacks in the rest of the country
are increasingly frequent.


Afghan officials say the Taliban and their Al-Qaeda allies have
training camps in Pakistan which feed the insurgency that was its
most deadly last year since the Taliban regime was toppled in
2001 with more than 4,000 people killed -- most of them rebels.


About 50,000 foreign troops with the NATO force and separate
coalition are in Afghanistan to help the government gain control
of areas overrun with Islamist militants, drug barons and private
armies.

