

World crude prices surged on Friday as Saudi Arabia announced it
had arrested a ring of alleged militants plotting airborne
attacks on oil facilities and army bases.


The news from the world's biggest oil exporter subsumed weak
first-quarter growth data in the United States, which showed the
economy expanding by its weakest pace in four years.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, rose 1.40 dollars to close at 66.46 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
firmed 76 cents to settle at 68.41 dollars a barrel.


"The forces that brought prices to here are extant as the Saudi
story reminds us with brutal clarity," Man Financial analyst John
Kilduff said.


"When more is known about the level of sophistication, and how
close to execution were the militants' plans, it could produce
new highs, yet again," he said.


Earlier Friday Saudi Arabia announced it had seized arms and
money and rounded up 172 militants which it said were plotting
the attacks.


"Some individuals were training to fly to carry out terrorist
attacks ... Some of the cells arrested planned to target oil
installations and refineries," interior ministry spokesman
General Mansur al-Turki told AFP.


Five of those detained were linked to a failed attempt to blow up
an oil- processing plant, the world's largest, in Abqaiq in the
oil-rich Eastern Province in February 2006, according to the
ministry.


The developments in Saudi Arabia, the kingpin of the OPEC oil
cartel, overshadowed the announcement that the US economy grew by
just 1.3 percent in the first quarter of 2007.


That would suggest lower demand for crude in the world's biggest
energy- consuming nation. But at the same time, US demand for
gasoline is rising ahead of the summer driving season, lending
support to oil prices.


The US Department of Energy said Wednesday that motor fuel
reserves sank by 2.8 million barrels in the week ending April 20.
That marked the 11th consecutive weekly drop for gasoline
inventories.


"On the demand side of the ledger, gasoline is very bullish,"
James Williams at WTRG Economics said.


"Taken as a whole the report is bullish with higher gasoline
consumption and low inventories dominating the stock data," he
said.


Traders were meanwhile tracking the violent fallout from recent
presidential elections in Nigeria, which is Africa's biggest
crude oil producer.


"There is a lot of uncertainty right now," Calyon analyst Mike
Wittner said.


The US government on Friday voiced dismay at what it said was
Nigeria's missed chance to progress in its democratic process,
after a "seriously flawed" vote marred by "malfeasance and vote-
rigging."


Nigeria's current oil production is down an estimated 25 percent
owing to violence in the crude-rich Niger Delta.

