

Fighting between government forces and Shiite rebels has
intensified in northwest Yemen since resuming in late January
even though the authorities have deployed thousands of men to
crush the revolt.


"Certainly more than 1,000 Yemeni military personnel have lost
their lives in Saada" province since hostilities flared up again
three months ago, said a Sanaa-based diplomat, requesting
anonymity.


"It could be more than that," he told AFP.


The conflict, which erupted in 2004, is in its third phase, by
far the most serious, according to diplomats and foreign
observers in the Yemeni capital.


"The level of fighting is surprising. This is the third time this
insurrection, this fighting, has broken out. Each time, it seems
to be a little more intense than the previous time," the diplomat
said.


The uprising of the so-called "Faithful Youth" movement is
unfolding around Saada, capital of Saada province near the border
with Saudi Arabia.


Residents of the deprived mountain region belong mostly to the
Zaidi community, a moderate offshoot of Shiite Islam dominant in
northwestern Yemen but a minority in the mainly Sunni country.


The rebels are also referred to as "Huthis" after their slain
commander, Hussein Badr Eddin al-Huthi. They reject President Ali
Abdullah Saleh's regime as illegitimate nd call for the
restoration of the Zaidi imamate, which was overthrown in a 1962
coup known as the September 26 revolution.


"I think this platform has very little support inside of Yemen,"
the same diplomat said.


The extent of support for the rebellion among the Zaidi community
is also unclear.


But the diplomat noted that "this group has used for its own
purposes ... the Yemeni government's partnership with the United
States and with the global community fighting terror" in a
country that the ancestral homeland of Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin
Laden and has many Al-Qaeda sympathisers.


"And that has, I think, maybe gained them a little more support
among others in Yemen, or it has increased their profile," the
diplomat said.


For its part, the regime does not hesitate to portray the
conflict as part of the fight against terrorism.


The rebels "have also tried to play the Shiite-Sunni card," said
the diplomat, a perception backed by one foreign observer who
said the conflict is beginning to look like a war pitting Shiites
against Sunnis.


The government believed that the killing of Hussein Badr Eddin
al-Huthi by the army in September 2004 had solved the problem.
But his father Badr Eddin, and brothers Abdul Malak and Yahia,
took over, and clashes resumed in 2005.


In September 2005, President Saleh granted the rebels an amnesty
which led to the release of hundreds of them in the following
months, a move the Huthis exploited to regroup their forces.


The government has consequently ruled out negotiations, and Saleh
has opted for a military solution.


"There can only be a military solution. Absolutely," Yemen's new
prime minister, Ali Mohammed Mujawar, told AFP.


Since Februry, authorities have resorted to harsher means to
quell the insurgency, including the use of MiG-29 fighters to
bomb rebel hideouts.


But the mountainous terrain favours the insurgents, compensating
for the inferiority of their equipment.


The magnitude of army losses, a well-guarded secret, is confirmed
by the fact that one of Saada's two largest hospitals, Al-Salam,
was recently closed to the public and reserved for war wounded,
according to the foreign observer who spoke to AFP.


Casualtie figures for the rebels are also unavailable.


The observer said that between 4,500 and 5,000 families -- or up
to around 35,000 people -- have been displaced by the fighting,
even though there is no humanitarian crisis at this point.


The fighting is confined to the northwest of the country and the
insurgents are not in a position to overthrow the regime, but the
government may well get bogged down in the conflict.


"It's a total disaster," said another diplomat in the Yemeni
capital.


"There is no military solution. They will just have to negotiate
at some point. It might be in two weeks or in 10 years."

