

Three suspected members of the armed Basque separatist group ETA
appeared in court here Friday after being arrested in Britain on
suspicion they were awaiting orders to carry out attacks in
Spain.


The two men and one woman, who had legal representation, made
clear through an interpreter they would say nothing during their
30-minute appearance in City of Westminster Magistrates Court
which remanded them in custody until Tuesday.


London's Metropolitan Police said earlier that they were arrested
in the central northern city of Sheffield on suspicion of
"participation in a criminal organisation and terrorist offences"
on the request of the Spanish authorities.


Melanie Cumberland, representing the Spanish judicial authority,
told the London court that the three -- who were flanked by
police officers -- were awaiting orders to return to Spain to
commit terrorist attacks there.


Though they did not even confirm their identities, they have been
named as Zigar Ruiz Jaso, 28, suspected of a February 2006 attack
in the Basque region, and 23 -year-old Inigo Maria Albisu
Hernandez and Ana Isabel Lopez Monge, 36.


According to Cumberland, Albisu said after he was detained: "I'm
not Spanish, I'm Basque. It's true, I am ETA, I am fighting for
my country, you are my enemies."


In Madrid, the Spanish interior ministry said earlier that the
trio had been arrested in a sweep which resulted from "the first
specific anti-ETA operation undertaken in Great Britain."


A Spanish judicial source told AFP the three were preparing to
set up a cell in the northern Spanish region of Cantabria,
adjacent to the Basque region.


Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega said the
arrests followed a month's surveillance designed to thwart the
creation of a new ETA cell along the lines of one held
responsible for 24 attacks between 2004 and 2006.


That surveillance has brought a dozen arrests and the impounding
of some 170 kilos (375 pounds) of explosives.


ETA, blamed for 819 deaths in a four-decade campaign to achieve
independence for the Basque region of Spain and the Basque part
of southwestern France, declared a permanent ceasefire in March
last year but then killed two Ecuadoran men in a December 30
bombing at Madrid airport.


Those deaths wrecked tentative attempts by the Socialist
government to engage in a dialogue with ETA on reaching a
political settlement for the region's future.


On April 8, ETA evoked in a statement published in regional
newspaper Gara a "scenario without violence" for the region but
said it did not intend to renounce violence in "current
conditions."

