

Board in hand, Lon Beale gazes out at the sun-kissed azure of the
Pacific Ocean, contemplates the waves for a moment, and then
turns his back on the surfing paradise before him.


Unlike the wet-suited surfers who are riding the waves on this
stretch of California coastline near Malibu, Beale only has eyes
for the steep expanse of sand which rises up from the shoreline.


Because Beale, 49, is a sandboarder, one of the founding fathers
of a sport that has around 14,000 devotees across the United
States.


Beale, known affectionately amongst fellow sandboarders as
"Doctor Dune" for his work in pioneering the pastime, marches
briskly up the slope of sand behind him and prepares for his
descent.


"When conditions are perfect, a sandboarder can reach up to 90
kilometers per hour," says Beale, who discovered the sport in
1972 thanks to a friend in his hometown near Death Valley.


"There was no surf, there was no snow, we were skateboarding but
one of my friends living across the street from me had a board in
his garage, and I thought it was a skateboard," Beale recalled.


After being told it was a sandboard, Beale's curiosity was piqued
and was to blossom into a life-long passion.


"I started making my own sandboards, playing on the dunes and
stuff," said Beale. "You couldn't steer it, you couldn't stay on
the board, but even still it was fun."


These days Beale's passion has become his profession. He has been
instrumental in designing sandboards which can be steered, and in
2000 opened a 16-hectare (40-acre) sandboarding park in Oregon.


Beale believes sandboarding is a safer, more practical
alternative to both surfing and snowboarding, a sport which has
undergone a revolution over the past decade following its
inclusion in the Olympics.


"In surfing you can drown, you can hit a coral, you can be eaten
by a shark. We don't have that," Beale said. "The worst injury
I've seen is a dislocated shoulder. I've never seen a broken
bone."


"In snowboarding I've seen people die on the snow. I've seen them
hitting trees, dying in avalanches, falling from rocks."


Beale says around 10,000 people a year try sandboarding for the
first time at his purpose-built sandboarding center. Although
there are only an estimated 36,000 boarders worldwide, Beale is
convinced the numbers will grow.


"We've sandboarded all over the world -- Egypt, Dubai, Saudi
Arabia, Germany, France, Brazil, Peru, Chile, Australia," he
said. "We're talking about 700 locations around the world where
people are sandboarding."


Although some critics have alleged that sandboarding damages the
environment, Beale said the sport is largely given free rein in
the United States.


Authorities in other countries, however, have outlawed the sport
in certain areas. "We're not motorized, we're not polluting,
we're not tearing down the plants, we're just sliding over the
surface," says Beale.


Sandboarding also has the advantage of being a year-round sport.


"It can be done all year long," Beale said. "When the surf is
off, they're done. When the snow has melted, they're done. But
sand is always here."


Beale believes that as the sport grows in popularity, traditional
ski and snowboarding resorts may turn to sand instead of
artificial snow.


"We have lots of snow resorts come to our park and say 'Hey Lon,
why can't we bring some of the sand and put it on our runs?' You
can. It's cheaper than water, 55 cents a ton, and moving it is
very easy.


"We think that once one place does it, the season isn't three
months, it's 12 months. And we think that once they see that, and
one of them does it, I believe they'll all do it."

