

US President George W. Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe put on the "Shinzo" and "George" show Friday to send a
message: New leader in Tokyo, same close ties to Washington.


The two leaders, holding their first US summit, pulled out all
the stops in a bid to reaffirm a partnership that grew under
Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi, one of Bush's closest
allies and friends on the world stage.


The Bush-Koizumi personal relationship set the bar improbably
high: At their last official meeting, the prime minister sang the
Elvis Presley hit "Love Me Tender" to the president during a tour
of Presley's Graceland mansion.


But Bush and Abe gamely ran through a virtual checklist of the
ways the president signals that a world leader is not just a
valued partner on international policy but a friend indeed.


On Thursday, at a private dinner at the White House with their
wives Laura Bush and Akie Abe, the leaders discussed baseball,
bonding over a discussion of the Boston Red Sox Japanese
superstar, pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka.


In 2001, Bush and Koizumi broke the ice during their first
meeting at Camp David by playing catch with a baseball at the
Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland's Catoctin Mountains.


On Friday, Abe joined Bush at Camp David where, White House aides
said, they decided to call each other by their first names after
what was supposed to be a five-minute private meeting ran 40
minutes.


At a joint public appearance, Bush referred to his guest as
"Shinzo" eight times as he underscored the importance of
sustaining a US-Japan relationship that "has never been stronger"
and offered Abe a prime diplomatic plum.


"I told Shinzo one way to do so, of course, is to visit. I hope
he comes to my ranch soon. I looked forward to welcoming here to
Camp David, but I also look forward to taking him down there --
one might call it a little slice of heaven," Bush told Abe, who
called him "George" three times.


Koizumi visited the "Prairie Chapel" property near tiny Crawford,
Texas, in May 2003.


The president also gave Abe a brown leather bomber jacket -- a
gift he has also bestowed on British Prime Minister Tony Blair
and Koizumi -- and drove the prime minister to their press
conference in a golf cart.


The thick morning fog that obscured some of the paths wasn't a
problem, said Bush spokeswoman Dana Perino, because: "The
president knows his way around, so they didn't get lost."


Once there, the president bestowed another classic Bush
compliment on leaders he likes, telling the assembled reporters
and top officials like Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice that
Abe "married very well."


"I was so impressed by Akie's compassion, her intelligence and I
will tell you, Shinzo, that Laura feels like she has a new friend
now, and so do I. So we're really glad you're here," he said.


When it came time for the two leaders to address one bone of
contention in US- Japan relations -- Tokyo's restrictions on
imports of US beef -- Bush opted for cheeseburger diplomacy.


"I'm absolutely convinced the Japanese people will be better off
when they eat American beef. It's good beef, it's healthy beef;
as a matter of fact, I'm going to feed the prime minister and his
delegation a good hamburger today for lunch," said the president.

