

Socialist Segolene Royal opened a televised debate on Saturday
with defeated centrist Francois Bayrou to try to win the votes
she needs to become France's next president.


Royal wants to show she has much in common with Bayrou and send a
message to the 6.8 million voters who backed him in the first
round that they should now vote for her in the May 6 runoff
against frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy.


The Socialist contender appeared relaxed and smiling as she
arrived at a Paris hotel for the debate, shaking hands with
Bayrou and posing for the cameras before sitting at a table next
to the centrist.


"It seemed to me very important and in the interest of France
that we be able to decide on which themes we could work
together," Royal said in her opening remarks.


"We will not be in agreement on everything," she added, but said
it was important to "break out of confrontation".


Bayrou also said there would be no firm alliance between the two
as a result of the debate but stressed the importance of reaching
out to a broader electorate.


"We must seek unions that are much broader than those that we
have had up until now," said Bayrou during the debate broadcast
on the small BFM-TV television station and on RMC radio.


Campaigning in the northern French town of Valenciennes, Sarkozy
dismissed the Royal-Bayrou talks as "small-time scheming" and
said they held little interest for him.


"They are together in a major Paris hotel, but I am here in
Valenciennes with Jean-Louis Borloo on the ground," said Sarkozy
who was accompanied by Borloo, the employment minister.


A new poll released Saturday showed that 35 percent of Bayrou's
voters would back Royal in the runoff compared to 29 percent for
Sarkozy.


An additional 36 percent of the Bayrou electorate, which holds
the key to victory, plan to abstain or have yet to make up their
minds, according to the Ipsos/Dell survey.


But Sarkozy, a tough-talking former interior minister who won a
comfortable lead in round one, remains ahead, with 52.5 percent
of voter intentions against 47.5 percent for Royal.


Royal, a former adviser to president Francois Mitterrand, has
faced criticism within her Socialist Party for reaching out to
Bayrou and engineering a shift to the centre that could leave a
lasting imprint on the party's future.


The televised meeting between Bayrou and Royal has also allowed
the defeated candidate to carve out a role as a player in the
second round of voting that has usually been a straight two-way
fight.


A former education minister, Bayrou has refused to endorse either
candidate, but suggested that he could vote for Royal if she
revises her economic proposals.


He won nearly 19 percent of the vote in the April 22 multi-
candidate first round on a platform that called for rejecting the
left-right divide and creating a unity government made up of
moderates from both camps.


Sarkozy, the candidate of President Jacques Chirac's governing
party, has refused any direct discussion with Bayrou but has
welcomed 19 of the 29 elected deputies of his small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) into his fold.


Sarkozy was accused of conspiring to block the Royal-Bayrou
alliance after one of France's main television stations reversed
its decision to broadcast the meeting.


Royal charged that Sarkozy had pressured the station and
denounced the rightwinger's "conniving with powerful media
interests."


Sarkozy vehemently denied that he had tried to scupper the
meeting, saying that he did not control journalists.


Sarkozy will face off with Royal in a televised debate on
Wednesday evening that is expected to be the high point of a
months-long presidential campaign dominated by calls for change
after 12 years under Chirac.


The election will usher in a younger generation of leaders amid
much agonising over how to adapt to globalisation, attack high
unemployment and defuse tensions in the high-immigrant suburbs
that exploded into rioting in late 2005.


Pledging a "clean break" from the politics of the past, Sarkozy,
52, has centred his campaign around right-wing themes such as the
work ethic, national identity, immigration and economic
liberalisation.


Royal, 53, promises to protect the country's generous "social
model" and her 100-point "presidential pact" contains many new
welfare projects to fight poverty and joblessness.

