

The case of a Bosnian Serb charged in connection with the 1995
Srebrenica massacre was transferred Friday by the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) to Bosnia for
trial.


"The prosecutor's file against Miloard Trbic is transferred to
Bosnia- Hercegovina, so the authorities can submit it to the
appropriate courts," said the written ruling.


Former officer Trbic, 49, is accused of genocide, conspiracy to
commit genocide, crimes against humanity and warcrimes for his
part in the massacre of nearly 8,000 Bosnian Muslim men and boys
on July 11, 1995.


They were executed by Bosnian Serb troops after the fall of the
United Nations- protected Srebrenica enclave in eastern Bosnia.


Trbic was security officer in the Zvornik Brigade, which was
involved in the massacres.


The indictment charges that he "took part in organising the
receipt, detention and murder of thousands of Bosnian Muslim men
... and personally executed in Orahovac Muslim men from
Srebrenica during this time period."


The Srebrenica massacre is the worst single atrocity committed on
European soil since 1945 and the only episode of the 1992-95 war
in Bosnia officially ruled to have been genocide.


The tribunal's policy has been to transfer the lesser individual
charges to national courts while keeping the most serious charges
for trial at The Hague. Trbic is one of eight suspects held in
connection with the killings.


Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb
military and political leaders and accused of being the main
architects of the war crimes against Bosnian Muslims, are still
at large.


In Oslo meanwhile, Norwegian police announced they had taken a 40
-year-old Bosnian accused of war crimes into custody, at the
request of the Bosnian authorities.


"He has been remanded in custody for four weeks today," police
spokesman Audun Oevrebroe told AFP.


"On Monday the Bosnian government sent us a request to arrest him
and deliver him to them in order for them to try him in Bosnia,"
he added.


The suspect had arrived in Norway on Monday as a refugee but as
far back as 2005 the police had been received word from abroad to
keep an eye out for him, said Oevrebroe.

