

China's top nuclear negotiator said on Saturday Beijing was
optimistic for the North Korean denuclearisation deal, which has
been stalled due to a row over Pyongyang funds frozen at a Macau
bank, a report said.


"A solution is being sought in a way that the government of Macau
will handle" the frozen assets, Wu Dawei was quoted as saying by
Japan's Jiji Press news agency.


"We have a good outlook for a solution," he said. "Good news will
come soon."


Wu, who met Japanese senior politician Koichi Kato in Beijing,
also said the UN nuclear watchdog was keeping contacts with North
Korea, adding that Pyongyang "has told the nuclear agency that it
would accept inspections after the BDA (Banco Delta Asia) row is
resolved."


"The latest nuclear deal stipulates the disablement of all
existing nuclear facilities," Wu said. "We acknowledge it also
includes programmes related to uranium enrichment."


China is North Korea's main ally and the broker of the six-nation
talks that led to a February 13 agreement with Pyongyang.


Under the deal, North Korea promised to shut down and seal its
Yongbyon reactor in exchange for energy aid.


But Pyongyang last month refused to act until it receives some 25
million dollars of its funds frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia.


The funds were frozen in 2005 at Washington's behest over
allegations of money laundering and counterfeiting.


US authorities last month dropped the sanctions and said it was
up to the Macau authorities to release the cash.


But the funds have not yet being transferred, reportedly due to
problems finding a bank willing to handle the cash.


North Korea failed to meet the April 14 deadline to take the
initial actions under the deal.


Wu also told the Japanese delegation that China requested Japan
to bear a proper share of the burden of providing 950,000 tonnes
of heavy fuel oil to North Korea once it disables its nuclear
facilities.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, known for his hard line on
North Korea, has said he would not provide any aid under the US-
backed six-nation deal until North Korea resolves a row over its
kidnapping of Japanese citizens.

