

Afghanistan's Taliban said they freed Saturday a French woman
captured more than three weeks ago and extended by a week a
deadline for demands to be met for the release of four men taken
with her.


"Today at 11:05 (0635 GMT) the French female hostage was released
in Maiwand district of Kandahar province," Taliban spokesman
Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP.


Afghan officials could not immediately confirm the release. The
French embassy in Kabul said: "We are awaiting confirmation."


The five, two French nationals and three Afghans working for a
small French children's non-governmental organisation Terre
d'Enfance (A World For Our Children), went missing April 3 in the
southwestern province of Nimroz.


They were captured about a fortnight after an Italian
correspondent was freed by Taliban militants who beheaded his
Afghan driver and interpreter.


"We have extended the deadline for the French man and three
Afghan hostages for another week," Ahmadi said.


The woman, who has been named in the media only as Celine, was
carrying a message to the French government that it must "cut its
military assistance to Afghanistan," Ahmadi said.


"She was released to show our good intentions towards the French
government," he added.


Another spokesman for the movement, Zabihullah Mujahid, said the
extension was granted to the French government "since they have
elections and they are busy."


"We will give the French woman a letter containing our demands
from the French government," he said, adding the woman was freed
on "humanitarian grounds."


The Taliban said April 20 they wanted France to withdraw its
1,000 troops with NATO's International Security Assistance Force
in Afghanistan and for certain Taliban prisoners to be freed in
exchange for the hostages.


Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was released after
nearly two weeks in captivity around March 19 after Kabul freed
five Taliban prisoners, some of them high-profile figures, in a
much-criticised deal that the government vowed would never be
repeated.


The insurgents' April 20 message, posted on their website, said
if their demands were not met, their "position... about foreign
prisoners was clear to the world and (will) soon be applied."


The Taliban have beheaded several Afghan hostages and some
foreigners -- most of them Indians and Turks involved in road
construction in the south.


The movement also claimed responsibility for the slaughter of a
British engineer in September 2005.


The new kidnapping, in a remote area where few foreigners would
travel by road, has attracted intense interest in France, which
goes to the polls May 6 in a presidential run-off.


Leading presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy said this week the
length of the French deployment with the 37-nation NATO-led force
in Afghanistan was not determined.


Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Friday there was no
plan for the troops to stay for the long-term.


Most of France's soldiers are based in the capital Kabul, which
sees much less of the violence which is raging in the south and
east. The country also has three Rafale strike fighters operating
in Afghanistan and based in Dushanbe in neighbouring Tajikistan.


France withdrew its contingent of around 200 special forces last
year, but has about 20 troops here training the fledgling Afghan
special forces.


The Taliban, driven from power by a US-led coalition in 2001 for
sheltering the Al-Qaeda network behind the September 11 attacks,
target mainly troops and government workers in an increasingly
intense campaign that has claimed around 1,000 lives this year,
by an AFP count.

