

Nigeria's literary giant and 1986 Nobel prize winner Wole Soyinka
has joined widespread calls for the cancellation of the country's
disputed general elections.


The governorship, legislative and presidential polls held on
April 14 and 21, have been roundly condemned by foreign and local
observers as falling short of international democratic standards.


"It is not right to accept the unacceptable for peace sake,"
Soyinka told reporters late Friday.


He said that since the vote was marred by large scale fraud,
rigging, irregularities, intimidation and violence, it should be
cancelled and a re-run conducted.


The world renowned writer and civil rights campaigner also called
for the head of Nigeria's Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) Maurice Iwu to be sacked for his poor and
partisan handling of the vote in favour of the ruling People's
Democratic Party (PDP).


"We call for the dismissal of Iwu. This is the categorical
demand. This is a just demand, for even at the level of
incompetence," he said.


"It's shameful that Iwu has the nerve to still sit in that chair
as director or chairman of the electoral commission," he
lamented.


Soyinka also blamed the head of the country's police, Sunday
Ehindero, for allowing his officers to be used to rig the vote
for the ruling party.


"Ehindero, the inspector-general of police, must also accept
responsibility for the collaboration of his men in the violation
of the political will of this nation," he added.


The PDP won a landslide victory, clinching a majority of the
parliamentary and governorships in the 36 states of the
federation.


The party's candidate and outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo's
annointed successor Umar Musa Yar'Adua also won the April 21
presidential poll.


The Nigerian polls in which 200 people died have been heavily
criticised by the US and EU as the worst in the African nation's
recent history.


The opposition parties and civil society groups have called for
the cancellation of the vote, even threatening not recognise a
government formed from it.


A coalition of opposition parties and some civil society
organsations have also agreed to peaceful protests on May 1.


Fresh elections were under way Saturday across the country in
areas where the vote in last weekend's flawed elections were
either cancelled or annulled as a result of irregularities.


The electoral commission said it was conducting elections for the
governorship post in south-eastern Imo state, 11 senatorial
seats, 48 House of Representatives and 57 State Houses of
Assembly seats spread across 27 states.

