

More than 7,000 students rallied on the border of the ex-Soviet
republic of Georgia's breakaway region of Abkhazia Friday to
demand the release of three young men held by separatist
authorities.


About 2,000 people also demonstrated Friday in the capital
Tbilisi to protest against cuts in social programmes and
increased taxes.


Busloads of students from across the country gathered at a
checkpoint on the border with Abkhazia, where they unfurled an
enormous Georgian flag and chanted "Freedom to the Georgian
students!"


A bridge crossing the border was blocked by two armoured vehicles
and about 20 Russian soldiers. Russia has deployed thousands of
soldiers who act as peacekeepers along the border with Abkhazia,
which broke away from Georgia amid heavy fighting in the early
1990s.


Protesters were demanding the release of three students detained
in Abkhazia after crossing the border on March 1. The students
were involved in political efforts to undermine the separatist
authorities in Abkhazia and each faces up to seven years in
prison.


Separatist authorities have demanded the return of a local Abkhaz
official held by Georgian police in exchange for the students'
release.


"This is only the beginning of our struggle," protest organizer
Ani Lezhava told Imedi television. "We will win their freedom."


Simultaneously, demonstrators rallied outside the Georgian
parliament for several hours to protest government moves to cut
social benefits and increase taxes.


The protesters accused President Mikheil Saakashvili, who swept
to power after Georgia's 2003 Rose Revolution, of breaking
promises to improve living conditions.


Saakashvili has cut subsidies for utilities and public transport,
and increased some property taxes, in an effort to improve state
finances.


"It is getting more and more difficult for us to survive,"
protester Inga Vashalomidze told AFP. "Saakashvili has broken all
of his election promises. He and his ministers are taking the
shirts off our backs."

