

Socialist Segolene Royal was set to hold a televised debate on
Saturday with defeated centrist Francois Bayrou to try to win the
votes she needs to become France's next president.


Royal wants to show she has much in common with Bayrou and send a
message to the 6.8 million voters who backed him in the first
round of the election that they should now vote for her to defeat
frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy.


A new poll released Saturday showed that 35 percent of Bayrou's
voters would back Royal in the May 6 second and final round of
the election compared to 29 percent for Sarkozy.


An additional 36 percent of the Bayrou electorate, which holds
the key to victory, plan to abstain or have yet to make up their
minds, according to the Ipsos/Dell survey.


But Sarkozy, a tough-talking former interior minister who won a
comfortable lead in round one, remains ahead, with 52.5 percent
of voter intentions against 47.5 percent for Royal.


Royal, a former adviser to president Francois Mitterrand, has
faced criticism within her Socialist Party for reaching out to
Bayrou and engineering a shift to the centre that could leave a
lasting imprint on the party's future.


The televised meeting between Bayrou and Royal has also allowed
the defeated candidate to carve out a role as a player in the
second round of voting that has usually been a straight two-way
fight.


"This is unprecedented," commented Guy Carcassone, expert on
constitutional law. "Never has a candidate eliminated in the
first round played such a role in the second."


A former education minister, Bayrou has refused to endorse either
candidate, but suggested that he could vote for Royal if she
revises her economic proposals.


He won nearly 19 percent of the vote in the April 22 multi-
candidate first round on a platform that called for rejecting the
left-right divide and creating a unity government made up of
moderates from both camps.


Sarkozy, the candidate of Chirac's governing party, has refused
any direct discussion with Bayrou but has welcomed 19 of the 29
elected deputies of his small Union for French Democracy (UDF) to
his fold.


Sarkozy was accused of conspiring to block the Royal-Bayrou
alliance after one of France's main television stations reversed
its decision to broadcast the meeting.


Royal charged that Sarkozy had pressured the station and
denounced the rightwinger's "conniving with powerful media
interests."


Bayrou also said he was "convinced" Sarkozy was behind the
decision to cancel -- although the channel said it was because of
election rules on sharing airtime between the finalists.


Sarkozy vehemently denied that he had tried to scupper the
meeting, saying that he did not control journalists.


Nevertheless, the 90-minute debate between Bayrou and Royal will
be aired live on a smaller television channel and a radio station
that were able to allot time for the pair as Sarkozy had recently
been given more exposure on their programmes.


Sarkozy will face off with Royal in a televised debate on
Wednesday evening that is expected to be the high point of a
months-long presidential campaign dominated by calls for change
after 12 years under President Jacques Chirac.


The election will usher in a younger generation of leaders amid
much agonising over how to adapt to globalisation, attack high
unemployment and defuse tensions in the high-immigrant suburbs
that exploded into rioting in late 2005.


Pledging a "clean break" from the politics of the past, Sarkozy,
52, has centred his campaign around right-wing themes such as the
work ethic, national identity, immigration and economic
liberalisation.


Royal, 53, promises to protect the country's generous "social
model" and her 100-point "presidential pact" contains many new
welfare projects to fight poverty and joblessness.

