

Ben Gordon scored 27 points and Luol Deng added 24 on Friday as
the Chicago Bulls pushed the National Basketball Association
champion Miami Heat to the brink of playoff elimination.


Sudanese-born Briton Deng also pulled down 11 rebounds as the
Bulls won 104-96 to take a three-games-to-one lead over Miami in
the best-of-seven Eastern Conference first-round series.


Elsewhere in the East, Jason Kidd collected 16 points, 16
rebounds and a career playoff-high and franchise-record 19
assists - his 10th career playoff triple- double, as New Jersey
defeated Toronto 102-89.


In Miami, Kirk Hinrich had 22 points and six assists and Ben
Wallace added 11 and eight rebounds for the Bulls.


That leaves the Heat, which missed 19 of its 35 free throws,
looking to buck a definitive historical trend.


In the 78 previous times in playoff history a team has trailed
3-0, that club has never rallied to win the series.


The Heat are one game away from becoming the first defending
champion to be removed in the first round since the 2000 San
Antonio Spurs were knocked out in four games by the Phoenix Suns.


Current Chicago coach Scott Skiles guided Phoenix at the time.


Trailing 79-72 with 27 seconds gone in the fourth quarter, the
Bulls went on a 10-0 run to take a three-point lead with 8:06
left.


Gordon scored six points and Deng added an 18-foot jumper from
the left angle to cap the spurt.


"We did a good job of continuing to fight," said Hinrich, who
finished with 22 points and six assists. "We probably wouldn't
have won this game two years ago. But we stayed after it and we
had it going in that fourth quarter. We were moving the ball.
We've shown we're capable of this all year."


The Bulls built a nine-point advantage with 3:10 remaining on a
pair of free throws by Hinrich before the Heat staged a rally of
their own.


Miami reduced the deficit to three when superstar Dwyane Wade
nailed a 16-footer from the left corner, making it 99-96 with
1:24 left.


However, the Bulls scored the final five points on free throws by
Hinrich and Deng and took their first 3-0 lead in a seven-game
series since going up three games to none against the Seattle
SuperSonics in the 1996 NBA Finals.


In the first period, Chicago shot out to a quick lead on the
strength of Deng, who entered the game tied for the second-
highest scoring average (29.5) in these playoffs behind Los
Angeles Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant (33.0).


"Winning this game shows a lot of maturity," Deng said.


However, Shaquille O'Neal and reserve Antoine Walker kept the
Heat in the game, while Miami star Dwyane Wade stepped to the
fore in the third period.


Wade finished with 28 points and nine rebounds and O'Neal added
23 and 13 for the Heat, who will try to fend off elimination at
home on Sunday.


In East Rutherford, New Jersey, Kidd tied Hall of Famer Larry
Bird for second all-time with his 10th career playoff triple-
double. He only trails Los Angeles Lakers great Magic Johnson,
who notched 30 triple-doubles in the postseason.


The star point guard also tied the 18th-best single-game playoff
assist total in league history, falling five short of the all-
time mark set by Johnson and former Utah Jazz guard John
Stockton.


Vince Carter scored 37 points and Richard Jefferson added 18
points for the Nets, who pushed the tempo all night.


Kidd's health had been a concern prior to the game. He injured
his left knee early in game two while attempting to draw an
offensive foul, and had missed practice on Thursday with a
strain.


"I had a bump on the knee. We went to the doctors and everything
is fine. "It's the playoffs. Bumps and bruises you put aside and
do whatever you can to help the team." Kidd said.


Kidd highlighted his performance in the fourth quarter, running
down the lane on the break, throwing the ball behind his back to
a trailing Carter, who threw down an emphatic dunk over Raptors
rookie Andrea Bargnani to make it 94-79 with 6:03 left.


However, just over a minute earlier, Kidd's blind pass in the
open floor to Jefferson was the cause of a scary moment for the
Nets. Jefferson swooped to the rim but was clotheslined by
Raptors guard Morris Peterson, nearly sparking a fight.


The Raptors, who had 27 points from T.J. Ford and 11 points and
11 rebounds from Chris Bosh, will try to regroup for game four in
New Jersey.

