

The UN Security Council lifted Friday its embargo on Liberia's
diamond exports, saying the west African nation has made progress
in certifying the origin of its rough diamonds.


The 15-member Security Council unanimously approved a US-drafted
resolution that canceled a 2003 resolution's embargo on Liberian
raw diamonds.


It was the council's second vote of confidence in the new
president of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, following the
lifting in June of an embargo on Liberian wood.


In Friday's resolution, the council said it was "applauding the
government of Liberia's continuing cooperation with the Kimberley
Process Certification Scheme" and thus had decided "to terminate
the measures on diamonds imposed by paragraph 6 of resolution
1521" in 2003, which was an embargo on raw diamonds.


The Security Council said it would review its action in 90 days,
based on an evaluation it will receive from the Kimberley Process
on Liberia's performance.


The UN-backed Kimberley process, which groups 43 countries and
international organizations, was set up in May 2000 to prevent
illegally exported "conflict diamonds" being used to buy arms.


Members of the group have agreed to a certificate system designed
to identify the origin of diamonds and guarantee that they are
legally exported.


So-called "blood diamonds" and other precious stones were
illegally exported to fund weapons purchases, a practice that
fueled civil wars in Liberia, Sierra Leone and the Democratic
Republic of Congo.


Liberia was left in ruins after 14 years of civil war. Johnson,
the first woman to be elected president of an African country,
has been in office since January 2006.


During the back-to-back civil wars in 1989-2003, rivals plundered
the country's wood and diamond resources to finance weapons
buying.


Under the Kimberley Process, rough diamonds are sealed in tamper-
resistant containers and required to have forgery-resistant,
conflict-free certificates with unique serial numbers each time
they cross an international border.


In December, the Security Council renewed sanctions against
Liberia barring trade in diamonds and arms as well as targeting
individual Liberians.


While the council then welcomed progress by the Liberian
government since January 2006 to reconstruct the war-torn country
and cooperate with the international effort to monitor the
diamond trade, it said the situation still posed a threat to
peace and security in the region.


Trafficking in illegal diamonds is considered one of the root
causes of the civil wars in Liberia as well as of the 10-year
brutal conflict in neighboring Sierra Leone that ended in 2001.

