

A pro-government Tamil militant group is holding at least 194
child soldiers despite promises it would free underage
combatants, UNICEF said Saturday.


The UN agency for children said the Tamil Tiger faction known as
the "Karuna group" was failing to honour its public promises not
to recruit child soldiers.


Out of 285 children known to have been recruited by the Karuna
faction, there were 194 outstanding reported cases as of the end
of last month, UNICEF said in a statement.


Last year, the UN accused Sri Lankan government forces and police
of rounding up children in the embattled east of the island to be
recruited by the Karuna group, a charge vehemently denied by the
authorities here.


UNICEF spokesman Andrew Brooks said cooperation with the faction
was "stalemated" and that the guerrillas were not allowing the UN
agency access to areas where child soldiers were being held.


"Our supposed cooperation is obscured by the faction's apparent
determination to delay, frustrate, and mislead the process to end
the use of children as combatants in this country's conflict,"
Brooks said in a statement.


Brooks said the faction led by Vinayagamoorthi Muralitharan,
better known as Colonel Karuna, continued to recruit child
soldiers despite assurances it would halt the practice.


"We continue to receive reports of children being recruited. It
augurs badly for Sri Lanka's children in the current climate of
increased hostilities. We seriously question whether the Karuna
group is acting in good faith," he said.


UNICEF is part of a taskforce established by the UN Security
Council which is charged with monitoring the serious violation of
child rights in Sri Lanka.


Karuna led an unprecedented split from the Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in March 2004 and since then is said to be
collaborating with government forces against the main guerrilla
outfit.


"Unfortunately, despite exhaustive approaches to the Karuna
group... the few children they've released falls well short of
the public commitments they've made," said Brooks."

