

The Philippines' election watchdog on Saturday placed a northern
province under its security control after two people were killed
in the worst outbreak of violence in the run-up to the May  mid-
term vote.


Commission on Elections (Comelec) head Benjamin Abalos travelled
to the northern province of Nueva Ecija to check on police
operations and help prevent rival political supporters from
attacking each other.


Armed men fired on a convoy carrying allies and sons of former
mayor of Jaen Antonio Esquivel near the town late Thursday.


A town council candidate and a police escort were killed while 17
others were wounded, including three police escorts and
Esquivel's two sons, Mark Lawrence and Mark Anthony -- who
underwent surgery for bullet wounds to the head.


Police initially reported only 10 were injured, but later revised
the figure to 17 after further checks with local officials.


Abalos said he had to place Nueva Ecija under his control to
prevent an escalation of violence.


"We are only doing this because it is necessary," Abalos said. He
clarified that the provincial government would remain in control
of day-to-day operations other than security, which would be
taken over by Comelec police deputies.


Nueva Ecija Governor Tomas Joson said he had spoken with Abalos
and confirmed he had agreed to the set-up. "Comelec will not
intervene in my authority over the civilian government," he said.


Elections in the Philippines are often marred by violence as
rival groups use force and private goons to intimidate voters and
political opponents.


There were 148 deaths recorded during the presidential elections
in 2004 and 111 deaths linked to the mid-term elections in 2001.


National police chief Oscar Calderon said an internal police
investigation was being conducted because policemen had been
involved in the current violence.


"Traditionally, the home stretch (of the vote) is the critical
point when passions flare, old rivalries heat up and last-minute
issues develop," he said.


He said police had already disarmed 52 out of 90 "private armies"
controlled by politicians nationwide and had arrested more than
2,000 individuals illegally carrying guns.

