

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe headed Friday on a tour of
five Arab nations as the world's second-largest economy seeks to
boost its visibility in a region vital for its energy security.


After paying his first visit in office to the United States,
Japan's closest ally, Abe departed for Saudi Arabia for talks
with King Abdullah II.


The Japanese leader will also visit Egypt, Kuwait, Qatar and the
United Arab Emirates in his five-day tour.


It is the second visit in less than a year by a Japanese premier
to the Middle East. Abe's predecessor Junichiro Koizumi traveled
in July to Israel and its Arab neighbors, saying Japan could be a
neutral broker in the strife-torn region.


Japan, which has virtually no oil or gas reserves, relies on the
four Gulf states which Abe will visit for more than 70 percent of
its oil supply.


"The Middle East is drawing the world's attention not just
because of political conflicts or war but, in the end, its oil
reserves," said Hiroshi Shiojiri, executive director of the
Middle East Research Institute of Japan.


"Japan is reaffirming its significance at a time when the world
is approaching the Middle East for energy security," he said.


Japan has been concerned by growing political risks with its
energy supply.


Abe, who is known as a hardliner on nuclear-armed North Korea,
last year slashed most of Japan's stake in a multibillion-dollar
deal to develop Iran's largest onshore oil field due to concerns
over Tehran's atomic drive.


Japan was also forced to cut back its participation in Russia's
giant Sakhalin-2 oil and gas project after a Kremlin-backed firm
took majority control.


Japan has sometimes faced competition from China, which is also
keenly seeking resources to fuel its rapidly growing economy. In
February, President Hu Jintao toured resource-rich African
nations, amid criticism in the West that China is overlooking
human rights and graft concerns in its quest.


"Japan feels some sense of competition against China, which is
enthusiastically working on energy security globally," said
Sadashi Fukuda, director general of the Tokyo-based Institute of
Developing Economies.


In its effort, Japan has tried increasingly to show that it has
interests in the Middle East beyond oil.


"Japan has always been left behind on global issues, with many
people in Arab nations having the impression that Japan is a
faceless deliverer of cash," Shiojiri said.


Japan came under heavy criticism in the West for bank-rolling the
first Gulf War in 1991 to the tune of 13.5 billion dollars -- or
20 percent of the international contribution -- without
committing personnel due to its pacifist constitution.


Learning from the bitter lesson, Koizumi sent 600 troops to Iraq
in 2003, marking the first time since World War II that Japan has
sent soldiers to a country where a conflict was under way.


Abe plans to visit Japanese air personnel in Kuwait, who are
flying in goods and personnel on behalf of the US-led coalition
and the United Nations despite Japan's withdrawal of the ground
troops last year.


Japan has also promoted its role as a broker in the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, most notably by planning a major agro-
industrial complex to create jobs in the West Bank.


Koizumi's trip to the Middle East was overshadowed by the start
of Israel's raids on Lebanon in response to attacks by Hezbollah
militants.


But Japanese experts said the country could still promote a role
in the region as it has little historical baggage.


"Overall, Japan doesn't have major constraints with countries in
the region like the ones the United States or Europeans have,"
Fukuda said.


"Japan has maintained ties with Iran, given a positive image in
Iraq and kept balanced relations with Israel and Palestine. There
is room for a role to be played by Japan in the region."

