

South Korea's presidential Blue House on Saturday called for a
thorough investigation after a business tycoon allegedly led a
gangster-style attack in revenge for an assault on his son last
month.


Police said they would seek an arrest warrant for Hanwha Group
chairman Kim Seung-Youn unless he turned himself in for
questioning this weekend.


"We have ordered the police to investigate the case thoroughly,"
a top official of the Blue House was quoted as telling Yonhap
news agency.


"The Blue House is watching closely how the case unfolds," he
said.


Kim is accused of leading at least 15 people including his
bodyguards to beat up several people last month after his 22
-year-old son was injured in a brawl with them in a Seoul bar.


The son, a Yale University student, received a 10-stitch cut on
his face when he fell down the steps during the fight.


Kim on Friday issued a statement apologising for "causing a stir
with a personal incident" and promised to "actively cooperate
with investigators."


However, he did not respond to summons by police on Saturday,
saying he was unable to undergo questioning because of exhaustion
from his recent overseas trips.


Police said they planned to announce preliminary investigation
results on Monday.


The incident has made headlines here and sparked harsh criticism
from politicians, news media and Internet users.


"We must not allow a world in which the head of a chaebol used
violence and can get away with it," said Chang Young-Dal, a
leader of the pro-government Uri Party. South Korea's business
conglomerates are known as chaebol.


The Dong-A daily said editorially that the attack led by Kim was
a reminder of a "gangster movie."


"Lynching is a crime... A chaebol head and security guards
carrying weapons locked others up and used violence against them.
This act must not go unpunished," it said.


Hanwha Group is one of South Korea's 10 largest business groups
built around explosives, construction, chemical and financial
businesses.

