

It's close to midday on one of the busiest streets in Sydney's
centre and Juan Mann is getting nervous. Known to millions as the
"free hugs guy," he is worried about the lunchtime rush.


And with good reason. Every Thursday for the past three years he
has stood in Pitt Street Mall holding a sign reading "FREE HUGS"
and gladly putting his arms around anyone who takes him up on the
offer.


But ever since a video of Mann appeared on the YouTube website
last September, he has become something of a celebrity in his
hometown.


"The majority of people who approach me now comment on how
they've hugged me before the YouTube video, but they've returned
to congratulate me on the international success and acceptance,"
he said.


It's a far cry from when he returned in Sydney in early 2004
after living in Europe, lonely and unhappy at his parents'
divorce, and decided to take up his unusual campaign to hug
complete strangers.


"I was alone. My family was elsewhere, my friends had all moved
on. It was just me. It was just me, and I had to do something,"
said the famous hugger, who goes by the name Juan Mann (One Man)
but keeps his true identity secret.


"And I sat around for months doing nothing. Noticing, just
watching the world. I didn't have a lot of contact with people. I
was just on my own. And I thought I would try to step out of that
and try and do something different."


Initially, he didn't hold high hopes for his hugging campaign. He
thought he would last an hour at most. He had a friend stand by
to keep an eye on him and left his wallet at home in case someone
tried to steal it.


"I genuinely expected the worst," he said.


But after 15 minutes, a woman approached and told him how her dog
had died that morning, which was also the first anniversary of
her only daughter's death, and she really needed a hug.


"And that first woman, it was more than just a hug, it meant
something to her," he said.


The impact of the "Free Hugs" campaign has now gone well beyond
that woman.


The video, which was put together by the lead singer of Sydney
band Sick Puppies, Shimon Moore, who became friends with Mann
after they met in the mall, has been named by YouTube as the most
inspirational clip on the site.


At last count, the video -- at
http://youtube.com/watch?v=vr3x_RRJdd4 --  has been viewed almost
14 million times, and from Taipei to Paris to Peru to Tokyo
admiring followers have set up their own "free hug" practices.


The irony of the situation is not lost on Mann. Here is a man who
was told in high school he didn't have much aptitude for
humanitarian work and who doesn't consider himself to be a social
person, now acting as an "emotional sponge" for Australia's
largest city.


"Every week a number of people will tell me their story, how they
have suffered and how they get by, the mistakes they've made and
the lessons they've learned," he said.


"I'm very fortunate in what I do in that I learn from everyone
else's mistakes as well as my own. I am very fortunate in that I
have a lot of other people's perspectives."


Mann said his "junk food emotion" fulfills a need people have for
someone to listen to their problems without the stigma of calling
a help line or seeking out a professional counsellor.


"There's just no anonymous place where people can go and dump
their guilt, their suffering and their anguish," he said.


Sydney clearly loves its hugger. When local authorities
threatened to stop Mann's campaign for public safety reasons,
some 10,000 people signed a petition to keep it alive.


Mann said his original intention was to personally take his
campaign to each country and territory in the world. But the
Internet beat him to it.


"The Internet has changed the way it happens. Now it happens
online. I spend four hours a day answering emails."


And every Thursday, he puts on his soft purple velvet jacket and
takes up his place in Pitt Street Mall, hugging shoppers,
tourists and workers, particularly urging those he feels miss out
on human contact, such as old people and businessmen, to come
over and "lay it on me".


"The businessmen walk by because they are preoccupied with the
suit. I will point at every single last one of them" and invite
them for a hug, he said.


Standing at six-foot-four, Mann is hard to miss. Many people
walking past mention they have heard of Mann and ask him to pose
for a photo with them. One teenage girl comes up to hand him a
letter in which she says he is an inspiration to her.


"Around Sydney, I go anywhere and someone will spot me. I shaved
my head because of it," said Mann, who had sported long curly
locks.


Mann estimates he has now hugged about 500,000 people over the
three years since he devised his "absurd approach" to give the
city a human touch.


"If I could sing, or dance I would have been out there busking.
Or trying to be a comedian," he admits.


Despite being known to millions, Juan Mann still clings to his
anonymity.


"It's not about me. What I do and who I am are different," he
said. "I'm 25, I can go and get a normal job and lead a normal
life now."


Recent experiences, including threats and comments from some
Christians that with his curly dark hair and beard he resembles
Jesus Christ, have only further convinced him of the need to
protect his identity.


"I've had death threats. A guy pulled a gun on me in New York. He
said: 'I should kill you now and save your message. You will live
forever'."


But Mann, who is writing a book about his experiences, said he
will keep hugging people "until nobody wants me, until I look
like a dirty old man.


"I've got to do it. It would be selfish of me to stop and selfish
of me to walk away."


And despite the fame, he remains committed to his task. To a
woman hurrying past carrying her lunch, he calls, "Would you like
a hug with that sandwich?"

