

The Horn of Africa, already hit by conflict in Somalia and
isolated attacks elsewhere, risks a further escalation in
violence from rebel movements, experts say.


Since February, the Somali capital Mogadishu has seen some of the
worst fighting in its history as Ethiopian troops, who are
backing the country's weak government, battle Islamist insurgents
and clan fighters.


Meanwhile, in Ethiopia on Tuesday, 77 were killed and seven
Chinese workers kidnapped in an attack on a Chinese oil venture.
The Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) rebel group claimed
responsibility.


Following the attack, Ethiopia blamed Eritrea for supporting the
rebel group, the latest in a string of accusations and counter-
accusations between the two countries, which fought a border war
between 1998 and 2000.


Sixteen years of unrest in Somalia and tension between Ethiopia
and archrival Eritrea has long been a concern in the region.


"We are not headed towards a wildfire, but towards deterioration
and scattered incidents," said Roland Marchal, researcher at the
Centre for International Studies and Research (CERI) in Paris.


Cedric Barnes, of the School of Oriental and African Studies at
the University of London, said all-out regional war seemed
unlikely.


Some had feared that that could occur when Ethiopia last year
began assisting the Somali military in its fight against
Islamists who had taken over south and central Somalia.


"I don't think it's going to be a complete, total war," Barnes
said, but added that "rising and more frequent incidents" seemed
possible.


A Western expert on the region, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said Eritrea's support for the ONLF rebel group in
Ethiopia has been an "open secret".


He added that this week's attack was more violent than others in
the past and may be a signal of what is to come.


In Kenya, which was hit by attacks claimed by Al-Qaeda in 1998
and 2002, there is also the risk of further violence, Barnes
said.


The country's Muslim population has felt victimised by police who
they feel are acting at the behest of US anti-terrorism policies.


Marchal said sections of the Muslim population in Kenya were
becoming radicalised, and that "there will always be criminals
who are going to attempt activities."


And as Ethiopian forces beat back insurgents in Somalia, the
insurgents are likely to turn to militant groups for help,
further complicating matters in the region, he said.


Western intelligence has long claimed that foreign fighters have
bolstered the Islamist insurgents, accusations they have
repeatedly rejected.


"Today, we can still talk to the people with the weapons in
Mogadishu, but in six months it will be worse," he said. "We will
have people with a Jihadist military makeup who won't be so
accommodating," Marchal said.

