

A team of North Korean diplomats on Saturday wrapped up a four-
day visit to military-run Myanmar that included an agreement to
restore diplomatic ties between two of the world's most secretive
nations.


"We had a wonderful visit. We were satisfied," a North Korea's
smiling deputy foreign minister Kim Yong-Il told a group of
reporters as he left his hotel for Yangon international airport.


The delegation led by Kim left Yangon on a commercial flight
bound for Bangkok. They would then travel to India, according to
diplomatic sources here.


Myanmar and North Korea, which have been branded "outposts of
tyranny" by the United States, agreed Thursday to resume
relations that had been severed for more than two decades due to
Pyongyang's deadly bomb attack in Yangon.


The bombing in 1983 aimed to assassinate South Korea's then-
president Chun Doo Hwan, who was on an official visit to Yangon.
Chun survived but 17 of his entourage were killed, as well as
four Myanmar officials.


One of the North Korean agents is still detained in Insein Prison
outside Yangon.


The attack took place near one of Myanmar's most cherished
landmarks, the Martyr's Mausoleum near the famous Shwedagon
pagoda -- a site Kim made a point of visiting shortly after his
arrival in Yangon Wednesday.


Analysts have said the two nations may have felt drawn together
in recent years with a shared perception they have a common foe
in the United States and the west more broadly.


"North Korea and Burma stand on the same side in terms of
opposing the west," said Chaichoke Chulsiriwong, an expert on
Myanmar at Bangkok's Chulalongkorn University, referring to
Myanmar by its former name.


"Burma wants to gain as much international support to counter
pressure from the United States," Chaichoke said.


Despite its rich natural resources, Myanmar is one of the world's
poorest nations and is subject to US and European economic
sanctions due to its human rights abuses, including the house
arrest of democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi.


The 61-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner has been under house
arrest at her rambling lakeside home in Yangon for most of the
last 17 years.

