

The Turkish armed forces, in an extraordinarily harsh statement,
said Friday that they are ready to protect the secular system and
accused the Islamist- rooted government of failing to prevent
rising anti-secular activities in the country.


The statement, posted on the General Staff web site shortly
before midnight and several hours after a presidential vote began
in parliament, listed several recent religious activities
targeting in particular women and children and organised in
legally secular venues such as public schools.


"The problem is even more serious because a major part of these
activities were held with the approval and within the knowledge
of the administrative authorities who are supposed to prevent
such activities," it said.


The statement warned of the dangers of "trying to load political
rhetoric or ideologies on sacred beliefs," saying this "makes
beliefs disappear and trasforms them into something else."


The murders of three Christian missionaries last week in the
eastern city of Malatya constitute "a striking example of this,"
the military said.


It said the anti-secular activities it listed "clearly violate
the principle of (the future president's) 'attachment to the
republican regime not in words but in essence...' expressed by
the Chief of General Staff," Gen. Yasar Buyukanit, in a widely
publicised press conference on April 12.


Earlier, parliament held a first, inconclusive round of voting in
the presidential election, in which Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul
is the sole candidate, presented by the governing Justice and
Development Party (AKP).


The main opposition, the secularist Republican People's Party,
which insists that the presidency cannot be left to the AKP, a
conservative movement with political origins in a now banned
Islamist party, petitioned the Constitutional Court to annul the
vote on a technicality.


"The problem that recently came to the forefront of the
presidential election process has focused on the issue of
questioning secularism. The Turkish armed forces are observing
this situation with concern," the statement said.


"It should not be forgotten that the Turkish armed forces are a
party to this debate and staunch defenders of secularism," it
said.


"The Turkish armed forces are also against (questioning
secularism)... and will openly and clearly display their position
and attitude when necessary. No one should doubt this," the
statement said.


The AKP is the moderate offshoot of the Welfare Party of Turkey's
first Islamist prime minister Necmettin Erbakan, which was forced
from power as a result of a harsh army-led secularist campaign in
1997 and was banned the following year.


The army has carried out three coups in Turkey, in 1960, 1971 and
1980.

