

Displaced residents of the Somali capital began returning to the
city on Saturday, the second day of calm after more than a week
of fierce battles between Ethiopian forces and Islamist fighters.


Hundreds of people trooped back to inspect their houses, most of
which were destroyed by heavy shelling during nine days of
fighting that rocked Mogadishu and killed several hundreds and
forced thousands to flee.


"I visited my house this morning and saw Ethiopian soldiers
inside. Some of them were sleeping and others sitting on my
veranda," said Muhubo Ali Diriye, a resident of Mogadishu's
northern Towfiq district.


"They allowed me to get in the rooms and check how things are,"
she told AFP.


An elder in Towfiq, Sheikh Hassan Dubad said the fighting had
been the worst he had ever seen.


"The worst shelling took place in our neighbourhood and we don't
know who we can ask to give us compensation," said Hassan, whose
house was destroyed by fire.


"I saw my house for the first time in nine days, but I could not
tell whether it was my house because it was demolished by
artillery shells," said Yusuf Gure Yare, another resident.


Meanwhile, Ethiopian soldiers, who took control of insurgent
strongholds in northern Mogadishu on Thursday, patrolled the
streets and searched residents who were returning, an AFP
corrpespondent and residents said.


"The Ethiopian forces are checking anybody walking on the street,
but we can reach our houses today for the first time and no one
is stopping us," said Wiliyo Ali Ga'al, a mother of two.


Ethiopian forces have been battling Islamist fighters and clan
militia since the beginning of the year when they backed Somali
government soldiers to oust an Islamist movement from the capital
and other areas they controlled.


But remnant Islamists vowed to resist the Ethiopian troops,
accusing them occupying their country.


The recent fighting was some of the heaviest since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into a bloody
power struggle that has defied 14 attempts to restore stability.

