

Bangladesh's military has no intention of grabbing power and will
return to barracks after cleaning up the nation's politics, the
powerful army chief was reported as saying on Saturday.


"The army will not be in politics. It is now assisting the
caretaker government. When the need is over, it will return to
barracks," the Bengali daily Manabjamin quoted army chief
Lieutenant General Moeen U Ahmed as saying.


"One thing must be clear. Will the army grab power? We were under
intense pressure to take power. But we did not. We want that
democracy continues," Moeen told the national independent
newspaper.


"We have only one aim: to rid the country of corruption. We will
have no compromise on corruption," he added.


He made the statement just days after the military-backed
government appeared to backtrack from its plans to exile the
leaders of the two main political parties.


The emergency government initially barred Sheikh Hasina Wajed, a
former premier and leader of the Awami League, from returning
from a US holiday earlier this month but then later said she
could return.


Authorities had also been trying to force Sheikh Hasina's main
rival, Khaleda Zia, the country's last prime minister and leader
of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), to leave.


Sheikh Hasina intends to return in the first week of May,
according to her spokesman. But Zia would fly to Saudi Arabia to
perform umrah -- religious pilgrimage -- soon, her brother told
reporters.


Spokesmen for both women have said they intend to remain in
Bangladesh and fight the elections slated now for late 2008.


The leading independent Daily Star newspaper earlier this week
condemned the plans to exile the women as "short-sighted" and
threatening the "credibility of the government."


Both Sheikh Hasina and Zia are accused of corruption, fomenting
political violence and misrule by opponents.


That led to a major political crisis in January which saw
parliamentary elections cancelled and a state of emergency
imposed.


While appearing to drop its exile plans for the two women, the
government  has brought murder and extortion charges against
Sheikh Hasina and has raised  the possibility of corruption
charges against both leaders.


On Wednesday it told banks to supply details of the women's bank
accounts.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina have held power alternately since 1991 but
the new government has pledged to clean up Bangladesh's
notoriously corrupt politics in order to put democracy back on
track.


The army is widely seen as having engineered events three months
ago that led to President Iajuddin Ahmed quitting as head of the
interim government, cancelling elections set for January 22 and
imposing emergency rule.


The emergency rule has ended months of opposition protests which
had brought Bangladesh to the brink of anarchy with each party
refusing to give ground.


Since winning independence from Pakistan in 1971, Bangladesh has
had a history of coups and counter-coups. It was run by military
dictator Hussain Mohammad Ershad from 1982 to 1990 before
democracy was restored in 1991.

