

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is due in Saudi Arabia on
Saturday on the first leg of a Middle East tour, as the world's
second-largest economy aims to bolster its presence in a region
crucial for its energy needs.


His visit comes just a day after the oil-rich kingdom said it had
arrested a ring of alleged Al-Qaeda militants plotting airborne
attacks on oil facilities and army bases, underscoring Japanese
worries about stability in the region.


The Japanese leader will hold talks with King Abdullah and Crown
Prince Sultan bin Abdul Aziz, who is also defence minister.


He and a 180-strong business delagation will also meet Hashim
Yamani, the minister of commerce and industry and senior business
figures, according the Arab News.


"Economic and trade issues, investment opportunities and economic
cooperation in energy will be discussed (during the meeting),"
the Saudi daily said.


Abe will also visit Egypt, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates on his five-day tour.


This is the second visit to the Middle East by a Japanese premier
in less than a year. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi,
traveled to Israel and its neighbors in July, saying Japan could
be a neutral broker in the strife-torn region.


Japan has virtually no oil or gas reserves and relies on the four
Gulf states that Abe will visit for more than 70 percent of its
oil supply.


"The Middle East is drawing the world's attention not just
because of political conflicts or war but, in the end, its oil
reserves," said Hiroshi Shiojiri, executive director of the
Middle East Research Institute of Japan.


"Japan is reaffirming its significance at a time when the world
is approaching the Middle East for energy security."


Japan has been concerned by growing political risks to its energy
supply.


Abe, who is a hardliner on nuclear-armed North Korea, last year
slashed most of Japan's stake in a multibillion-dollar deal to
develop Iran's largest onshore oil field due to concerns over
Tehran's atomic drive.


Tokyo was also forced to cut back its participation in Russia's
giant Sakhalin-2 oil and gas project after a Kremlin-backed firm
took majority control.


Japan has sometimes faced competition from China, which is also
keenly seeking resources to fuel its rapidly growing economy. In
February, President Hu Jintao toured resource-rich African
nations, amid criticism in the West that China is overlooking
human rights and graft concerns in its quest.


Tokyo has tried increasingly to show that it has interests in the
Middle East beyond oil.


"Japan has always been left behind on global issues, with many
people in Arab nations having the impression that Japan is a
faceless deliverer of cash," Shiojiri said.


Japan came under heavy criticism in the West for bank-rolling the
first Gulf War in 1991 to the tune of 13.5 billion dollars, or 20
percent of the international contribution, but without committing
personnel because of its pacifist constitution.


Learning from the bitter lesson, Koizumi sent 600 troops to Iraq
in 2003, marking the first time since World War II that Japan has
sent soldiers to a country where a conflict was under way.


Abe plans to visit Japanese air personnel in Kuwait, who are
flying in goods and personnel on behalf of the US-led coalition
and the United Nations despite Japan's withdrawal of the ground
troops last year.


Japanese experts said the country can promote a role in the
region as it has little historical baggage.


"Overall, Japan doesn't have major constraints with countries in
the region like the ones the United States or Europeans have,"
Fukuda said.


"Japan has maintained ties with Iran, given a positive image in
Iraq and kept balanced relations with Israel and Palestine. There
is room for a role to be played by Japan in the region."

