

The United States on Friday condemned Sudanese government
helicopter attacks on villages in strife-torn Darfur, saying the
strikes "call into question" Khartoum's commitment to finding a
peaceful settlement in the conflict.


Washington "condemns the aerial attacks by Sudanese government
helicopter gunships and Antonov bombers on the villages of Jira
and Amray in North Darfur on April 19 and 21, 2007,
respectively," said State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey.


"Credible reports indicate the bombings killed two pregnant
women, slaughtered numerous livestock, destroyed many homes and
damaged a school," he said in a statement.


"We understand rebel factions not party to the Darfur Peace
Agreement control this area. These attacks call into question
Sudan's commitment to abandon a military strategy in Darfur and
pursue a peaceful negotiated political settlement," Casey added.


"The United States calls on the Sudanese government immediately
to end these attacks, and calls on all parties, including the
rebel factions, to adhere to the ceasefire and refrain from
further violence," Casey said.


Earlier in the week the United States accused Sudan's government
of pursuing a "deliberate campaign of intimidation" of
international humanitarian workers in Darfur and warned Khartoum
that "time is running out" for it to halt violence there.


Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte, just back from a trip
to Sudan and the region, said Khartoum had to take steps soon to
disarm government-backed Arab militia blamed for most of the
violence that has left more than 200,000 dead in Darfur over the
past four years.


Negroponte reiterated a warning issued by President George W.
Bush last week that Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir's
government would be hit by US sanctions within weeks if he did
not accept the full deployment to Darfur of a UN-led peacekeeping
force of some 20,000 troops.


Beshir recently agreed to allow a first phase deployment of some
3,000 UN troops to boost an ineffective African Union (AU)
peacekeeping force in Darfur.


But he has objected to key elements of the larger operation,
including allowing the UN to share command of the forces with
their AU counterparts.


Bush agreed last week to postpone sanctions, including financial
measures against 29 government-linked companies and several
individuals, to give UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon more time
to try diplomacy.


"But time is running out," Negroponte said on Monday.


"The government of Sudan must disarm the janjaweed militia -- the
Arab militia that we all know could not exist without the
Sudanese government's active support" in order to avoid
sanctions, he said.


Beshir must also drop his objection to the full deployment of a
joint AU-UN force, with a "unified chain of command" and give aid
workers full access to Darfur, he said.

