

In a hip swirl of pink cosmopolitan cocktails and mashed-up dance
music, Silicon Valley insiders on Friday paid homage to the geeks
and the glamorous reshaping culture with technology.


An invitation-only crowd of about 700 people swarmed under a
tented patio walled with the visages of California's celebrity
governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, Harry Potter creator J.K. Rowling
and other winners of this year's Wired Magazine Rave Awards.


"I love it," said Arianna Huffington, who was honored with a 2007
Rave Award for being a "catalyst" who took her commentary into
the Internet world with the online Huffington Post.


"Many people here are really changing the future," she added,
fresh from a chat with Craigslist creator Craig Newmark.


Schwarzenegger was chosen for an award because he has "staked out
politically heretical" positions backing stem-cell research,
reduction of green house gas emissions and new technologies,
according to Wired.


While Rowling has a sophisticated website devoted to the Harry
Potter books that made her the first person to become a
billionaire writing novels, she was given a Rave Award for
"inspiring a generation of screen-fed kids to devour old-
fashioned books."


What started as a hobby for Jen Chung grew into a blogging empire
with fiefdoms in Paris, Shanghai, Sao Paulo and elsewhere.


Chung and a college pal used online journals called blogs to keep
friends informed about local happenings in New York City home,
fostering a network of "hyperlocal" news blogs coordinated by
their Gothamist website.


"My mom was born in Shanghai and she loves that blog because of
all the crazy things on it," Chung told AFP.


Tim Kring was chosen for a Rave Award for his creation of the
freshly-launched hit television show "Heroes" in which seemingly
ordinary people tap into super powers and battle evil forces.


Kring, dressed in a deep blue pin-striped suit, said the show was
based on a "mythological archetype" and used the Internet as a
stage to play out aspects of the story and introduce new
characters.


"It's really amazing," Kring said of joining the ranks of Rave
Award winners that includes musician David Byrne, Apple chief
executive Steve Jobs, and Google founders Larry Page and Sergey
Brin.


"I work on a TV show and keep my head down most of the day, not
really seeing what regular people are doing."


Marvel Comics writer and Lost television show story editor Brian
Vaughan was given a Rave Award for storytelling prowess that has
translated into technological achievements such as the X-Men in
film, print and online.


"It's sort of my year to sell out and move to Los Angeles,"
Vaughan said after a lengthy one-on-one talk with Kring.


Cliff Bleszinski and Tim Sweeney were among the evening's stars
for gaming software prowess that gives blockbuster video game
Gears of War realism including spurting blood when limbs are
blasted from animated characters.


"It's great," Sweeney said of the honor. "We're just a bunch of
geeks after all. It just shows how mainstream gaming is
becoming."


Before taking the stage to entice the throng to dance with
"mashup" music he makes by weaving together snippets of popular
songs, Rave Award winner Gregg Gillis confided he is quitting his
job as biomedical engineer on June 1.


Gillis recounted months of jetting off to perform with artists
such as Beck in Europe on weekends only to return to the United
States and be back at his cubicle at the start of the work weeks.


"It's been great, but it's too much," Gillis told AFP before
launching into music set that ended with him stridently singing
and then smashing a wine glass on his head.


Other winners included Alfonso Cuaron of Mexico for writing and
directing the science fiction film "Children of Men" and an Allen
Brain Atlas team that did breakthrough research into brain
functioning.


Details regarding the award winners are in the May issue of
Wired.

