

Cuba's communist authorities are mobilizing at least six million
people to mark May Day May 1, but have not confirmed whether
President Fidel Castro -- who has not appeared in public since he
underwent major surgery nine months ago -- will take part.


"I have no confirmation or information that Fidel will be in
Revolution Square" Tuesday for the International Workers' Day
events, Salvador Valdes, the secretary general of Cuba's one
union group which organizes parades and marches, told a news
conference.


In 48 years since rising to power, Fidel Castro, now 80, only has
missed May Day events due to travel outside the country in 1959
and 1963.


Valdes also declined to say whether Raul Castro, 75, who took
over as interim leader July 31 after his brother underwent
intestinal surgery, would be on hand.


Marches in the country of more than 11 million people, led in all
cases by "the main authorities," should have a turnout "topping
six to seven million Cubans," Valdes said.


A number of international journalists have been arriving in
Havana hoping to cover Fidel Castro's return to the public eye
after the surgery that took him away from Cuba's helm for the
first time in almost five decades. Prior to his illness, most
Cubans had never known another leader.


Earlier this week a fitter, less gaunt Castro was seen in
official photos after he met with a top Chinese official, in a
sign he unofficially is back at work on more of his customary
official duties.


That fuelled speculation among many Cubans that Fidel Castro
might be on hand at the May Day parade in Havana.


National Assembly speaker Ricardo Alarcon, one of the communist
regime's top figures, however said he thought Fidel Castro should
take a pass and opt for a television appearance instead.


Cuban officials and ally Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez have
given updates on Fidel Castro's health in recent months, hinting
he is set for a comeback and defying predictions by his arch-
nemesis, the United States, that his death was near.


This weekend, Fidel Castro will miss a summit in Venezuela of his
closest allies and partners in the Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), a socialist effort to rival US-led plans for
free trade in the Americas. Cuba will be represented by Vice
President Carlos Lage.


In addition to focusing on workers' issues, the events in Havana
on Tuesday will include a condemnation of the US release of ex-
CIA operative Luis Posada Carriles, who is blamed for the deadly
1976 downing of a Cuban airliner.


A fierce opponent of Fidel Castro, Posada Carriles was released
from jail in Texas on a 350,000-dollar bond on April 19, pending
the May 11 start of his trial on immigration charges, and
immediately flew to his wife's home in Miami.


He was convicted in Venezuela in 1976 of masterminding the
downing of the Cuban jet off Barbados, but escaped from prison in
1985.


He was sentenced to eight years' jail in Panama in a bomb plot to
assassinate Fidel Castro during an Ibero-American summit in 2000,
and was pardoned four years later.


He was detained by US immigration officials in May 2005 for
entering the United States illegally. US authorities have refused
to extradite him to Cuba or Venezuela, expressing fears he might
be tortured.

