

The euro soared to a record high against the dollar and yen
Friday after a surprisingly weak reading on US economic activity
prompted a flurry of activity in currency markets.


Within seconds of an announcement that the US economy in the
first quarter expanded at its slowest pace in four years, the
euro jumped to 1.3682 dollars, easily smashing its previous
record of 1.3666, reached on December 30, 2004.


But the single currency's momentum appeared to stall after an
early spurt, raising questions about future trends.


At 2100 GMT, the euro was changing hands at 1.3650 compared with
1.3598 dollars late Thursday.


The dollar meanwhile firmed slightly to 119.59 yen from 119.54
and eased to 1.2055 Swiss francs from 1.2084.


Sterling drifted up to 1.9974 dollars compared with 1.9911.


The euro extended its gains on the yen, hitting a record 163.31
yen before easing to 163.29, compared with 162.57 on Thursday.


The market has been betting on strong growth in the eurozone and
an extension of sluggish activity in the United States, which
reported first-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) growth at a
four-year low of 1.3 percent.


Some analysts said the sluggish growth rate may induce the
Federal Reserve to cut interest rate this year, making the dollar
less attractive as an investment vehicle.


"The case for a Fed rate cut later this year appeared to
strengthen," Stephen Malyon at Scotiabank said after the US
report.


"Given developments in the housing market, we don't think the US
economy will be able to rely on this source of growth for too
much longer."


Weak Japanese inflation data meanwhile raised doubts about when
the Bank of Japan would next raise interest rates.


Michael Woolfolk at Bank of New York said it remained unclear
whether the euro would be able to keep its momentum against the
dollar.


"While players succeeded at taking out the euro-dollar record
high of 1.3667, they quickly ran into congestion above 1.3670,"
he said.


"The failure to break through option barrier congestion between
1.3670 and 1.3700 is reason to hold out some hope that a
consolidation in the dollar's recent selloff may occur sooner
rather than later."


But he said traders will be looking carefully at US economic data
including Monday's report on personal income and spending report
and its gauge on inflation.


In inflation appears to be tame, he said "it could clear the way
for the Fed to consider cutting rates later this year," Woolfolk
said.


"This would effectively give a 'green light' to continue selling
dollars," leaving a new technical breakthough level for the euro
at 1.3850.


The steady appreciation of the euro should be a boon to eurozone
consumers, who are likely to see their purchasing power enhanced,
as well as a potential burden to exporters trying to compete on
the world stage.


A strong euro tends to hold down the price of imported goods,
notably of oil and gas imports denominated in dollars, but also
of consumer items such as Chinese T-shirts and Asian electronic
goods.


Eurozone businesses also benefit from lower prices for essential
materials bought outside the zone.


In addition, a strong currency, by making imports cheaper, helps
tame inflation and -- in principle -- should hold down long-term
interest rates.


But at the same time a strengthened euro would make eurozone
products more expensive and less competitive on overseas markets,
and as such could threaten the bloc's nascent economic rebound.


"A strong currency is a factor that ultimately restrains economic
growth," said analyst Holger Schmieding of Bank of America.

