

European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana called on
Friday for the United States to open a "channel of communication"
with Iran on all subjects.


"I think that at this point in time to have also the USA open a
channel of communication with Iran would be worth thinking about
... on everything," said Solana. He and Iran's top nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani held talks in Ankara on Wednesday and
Thursday.


"We have to see how much the USA are ready to engage," he said.


These were their first face-to-face meetings since the UN
Security Council imposed a second round of limited sanctions on
Iran in March over Tehran's refusal to halt uranium enrichment.
More talks are scheduled in two weeks.


Solana, in his talks with Larijani, represented the five
permanent members of the Security Council plus Germany. He said
on Friday that the talks were "constructive conversations."


"They were constructive in the sense that it was some potential
motion that we have to see if we can exploit in a next meeting
we'll have in about ten days," he said.


"I don't want to say at all that the difficulties are overcome,
we have many important hurdles that have to be overcome, but we
have to be tenacious."


Solana was speaking Friday after a Brussels Forum organised by
the Marshall Fund of the United States.


Assistant under secretary of state Dan Fried, who was also at the
Brussels conference, said he was not in a position to announce
any change in US policy.


"I'm not going to announce any change to it," he said.


"We've been in a far better place working with Europe about Iran
then when we were quarelling with Europe about Iran, which was
the case a couple of years ago," he added.


"The question of tactics in the way ahead is one (US Secretary of
State) Rice and Solana will be discussing in the days ahead. Our
position at the moment is well known."


Washington, which broke off diplomatic relations with Iran in
1980, accuses Iran of wanting to develop nuclear weapons -- which
Tehran denies -- and of supporting insurgents in Iraq.


Rice may meet Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki at a
conference on security in Iraq in Egypt on May 3-4 but Iran has
yet to confirm whether it will attend.


US President George W. Bush has said Rice, who is set to attend
the conference, "could" hold bilateral talks with Mottaki at the
Red Sea resort should Iran decide to participate.


But he said that there would be no one-to-one talks outside such
a context or discussions about Tehran's nuclear programme.

