

Chinese writer Guo Xiaolu was shortlisted Tuesday for the Orange
Broadband Prize for Fiction for her first novel in English, among
an international field.


The shortlist for the 30,000-pound (60,000-dollar, 44,000-euro)
prize, open to female authors writing in English whose works were
published in Britain in the last year, also included writers from
India, Nigeria, Britain and the United States.


Guo's "A Concise Chinese-English Dictionary for Lovers," which is
deliberately written in bad English, is about a couple who cannot
speak each other's language.


A Chinese girl is sent to study in London, where she meets a man
who takes her on a journey of sex, freedom and self-discovery.


But despite mastering English, she still cannot understand her
lover.


Guo, from a fishing village in southern China, has worked as a
screenwriter, film director and film teacher as well as writing
books in Chinese.


Indian author Kirin Desai, the daughter of best-selling writer
Anita Desai, is shortlisted for her second novel "The Inheritance
of Loss," which won the 2006 Man Booker Prize.


She could become the first to scoop both the Orange and the
Booker with her tale of a cantankerous old judge, whose life in a
crumbling, isolated house in the Himalayas is turned over by the
arrival of his orphaned granddaughter and the son of his chatty
cook.


US author Anne Tyler, who won the Pulitzer Prize for "Breathing
Lessons," was shortlisted for "Digging to America," about two
Korean babies delivered to families in Baltimore in the US.


Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie was nominated for "Half
of a Yellow Sun," which is set in the 1960s during the bloody
Nigeria-Biafra war.


The novel is about Africa, moral responsibility, ethnic
allegiances, class and race, and about how love can complicate
all these things.


Britain's Jane Harris was shortlisted for her first novel, "The
Observations."


Set in Edinburgh in 1863, the book centres on a maid and her
mysterious employer, who is near-obsessed with a former maid who
died in mysterious circumstances.


Her compatriot Rachel Cusk was nominated for "Arlington Park,"
which is set during a rainy day in an English suburb.


It shifts from one house to another, examining the lives of their
residents in a world awash with contentment but empty of belief,
and riven with strange anxieties.


Writer Muriel Gray, the chair of the judges, said the shortlist
was "incredibly exciting."


"It represents six beautifully crafted pieces of work that are as
accessible as they are fascinating," she said.


"That this outstanding writing should come from such diverse
sources that includes five different nationalities, a world
famous author, as well as a first-time novelist, is doubly
thrilling."


Bookmaker William Hill said Adichie was the favourite to win at
11-4, followed by Desai at 3-1, Cusk at 7-2 and Harris at 5-1,
with Guo and Tyler both at 11-2.


British writer Zadie Smith won last year's prize for her novel
"On Beauty," the third time she had been shortlisted.


The winner of the prize, set up in 1996 to celebrate fiction by
women, will be announced on June 6 at the Royal Festival Hall in
London.


Shortlist:


Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: "Half of a Yellow Sun" (second novel)


Rachel Cusk: "Arlington Park" (sixth novel)


Kiran Desai: "The Inheritance of Loss" (second novel)


Guo Xiaolu: "A Concise Chinese-English Dictionary for Lovers"
(third novel)


Jane Harris: "The Observations" (first novel)


Anne Tyler: "Digging to America" (16th novel)

