

Colombian striker Juan Pablo Angel expressed his delight Tuesday
after securing a move from Aston Villa to the American Major
League Soccer.


The 31-year-old agreed a deal with New York Red Bulls to bring an
end to his six-year spell in the English Premiership.


He will now join the likes of David Beckham in the MLS, which is
rapidly foraging a reputation for being able to attract some top
class players.


Angel cost Villa a club record 9.5 million pounds (19 million
dollars) when he signed from Argentines River Plate in January
2001 but his days have looked numbered since the arrival of
Norwegian John Carew and Ashley Young during the January transfer
window.


"It was a big decision for me but I'm so excited about what lies
ahead. It's going to be a new chapter in my career," said Angel.


"I am very excited about being part of trying to make the league
take off and become big in America.


"The Red Bulls coach Bruce Arena is the most successful manager
in American soccer history and there are four or five other
international players at the club."


Angel has enjoyed mixed fortunes at Villa with his best season in
2003-04 when he netted 23 times as the club just missed out on a
UEFA Cup spot on goal difference to Newcastle.


He started this season in the side and netted seven goals before
Christmas but has failed to make the substitutes bench in eight
of Villa's last nine games.


"We started the season very well but the performances of the team
in general dropped in December and the manager was looking for
changes.


"Once January came and people arrived, I knew opportunities would
be more limited but Martin O'Neill was always very
straightforward with me.


"I wanted to play regular football and that wasn't going to be
guaranteed here so I decided to move on to this marvellous new
challenge.


"The big disappointment is that we never won a trophy. I will
always have great memories of Villa but the fact is people will
remember you if you win things and that is the sad part of this
period."


Angel wishes that the revolution at Villa involving O'Neill and
new owner Randy Lerner had taken place earlier in his career.


"I wish these changes had happened three or four years ago but
the fact it is happening now is exciting for everyone," he added.


"It needed some changes and I'm sure the manager and the owner
will do everything possible to make the club successful and take
it to where they want it to belong."


Angel initially struggled to make an impact at Villa but 16 goals
in his second season established him as a hero on the Holte End.


It was David O'Leary who brought the best out of him during his
first season in charge at Villa with the 23-goal return,
including 16 in the Premiership.


But Angel has struggled to reproduce that form in the past two
seasons until the arrival of O'Neill briefly reignited that form.

