

Addressing a South American energy summit he hopes will boost
regional integration, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on Tuesday
tempered his criticism of Brazil's plans to promote ethanol.


"We want to clarify that we are not against biofuels," said
Chavez, who had earlier lashed out at a US-Brazilian agreement to
promote the use of ethanol, whose global production both
countries dominate.


Chavez stressed that oil-rich Venezuela needs 200,000 barrels a
day of ethanol to inject into its gasoline. But he has insisted
that substituting gasoline with ethanol would fuel global hunger
by using up arable land needed for food production.


Addressing his counterparts at the day-long summit on Venezuela's
Margarita island, the firebrand leftist president said the use of
biofuels was acceptable as long as it did not "take corn away
from people ... to feed cars."


The United States produces ethanol from corn, while Brazil mainly
uses sugarcane.


A top aide of Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva said
the "tone of the debate" on biofuel had eased. "The temperature
went down and today we have the possibility of holding a more
rational discussion," said Marco Aurelio Garcia.


Chavez, meanwhile warned that the ever-growing demand for energy
could reach crisis levels.


Citing OPEC figures, he said demand for oil will increase from
the current 84 million barrels a day to 103 million barrels a day
in 2020, while in Latin America, demand will increase from 7.5
million barrels a day to 11 million barrels, he said.


The national leaders at the summit were expected to focus on big-
ticket regional projects promoted by Venezuela, the only Latin
American member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC).


In a prelude to the summit, host Chavez and Brazilian President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva laid the cornerstone of a binational
complex that will produce polyethylene and polypropylene.


The complex will be a joint venture between the private and the
public sectors.


Leaders at the summit also planned to discuss an ambitious
pipeline project that would extend 5,000-miles (8,000-kilometers)
and deliver natural gas from Venezuela to Argentina, Brazil,
Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay.


Brazil and Venezuela agreed in January to move ahead with the
first stage of the project, which would take the pipeline to the
Brazilian city of Recife.


Also on the agenda is discussion of another proposed gas
pipeline, between Venezuela and the Pacific Coasts of Colombia
and Panama, and associated projects to improve the quality of
life in villages along the pipeline route.


Chavez is also certain to highlight his country's Petro-America
project, which sells crude at preferential prices to impoverished
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.


The presidents of Argentina, Brasil, Bolivia, Colombia, Chile,
Ecuador, Paraguay and Venezuela took part in the summit as did
the prime minister of Guyana and the vice president of Uruguay.


Noted for his absence was Peru's President Alan Garcia, a fierce
critic of Chavez.

