

The South Korean port city of Incheon Tuesday won the right to
host the 2014 Asian Games, fending off a challenge from New Delhi
to hold the lucrative multi- sport event.


It is the third time Korea has been picked following Seoul in
1986 and Busan in 2002.


Incheon bid leader Shin Yong-Suk was ecstatic as his team burst
into raucous celebrations after months of lobbying and pledged
the world would see the best ever Games in seven years' time.


"I am happy from the bottom of my heart," he said.


"I promise that 2014 will be the most successful Games ever. This
century is the century of Asia."


The New Delhi delegation was devastated after insisting all week
that it was the frontrunner and had a right to win, having been
overlooked since it was last selected in 1982.


Indian bid chief Suresh Kalmadi blamed the country's sports
minister, Mani Shankar Aiyer, for ruining their chances after he
was quoted as saying last week that hosting major sporting events
held no relevance to the common man.


"We lost and the sports minister won," he told reporters. "I
don't know what else went against us."


The vote swung in Incheon's favour after frantic last-minute
canvassing by both sides of the 45 Olympic Council of Asia (OCA)
nations that make up the body that controls sport in the region.


In announcing the decision, OCA president Sheikh Ahmad Al-Fahad
Al-Sabah insisted there were no winners and no losers.


"The only winner is the Asian Olympic movement and the growth of
the Asian Games," he said.


"Incheon is a well organised economic city and they have worked
hard to market their city. It was very close. They both had weak
points and strong points. From a marketing viewpoint Korea had
the edge."


The Asiad is expected to have a massive economic impact on
Incheon with officials forecasting it will create 270,000 new
jobs and attract huge foreign investment.


The city currently has 11 Olympic-standard sports facilities with
four more being upgraded and five new stadiums in the planning
phase. Another 17 facilities be built before the event, including
new aquatics and tennis complexes.


It promised in its presentation, based on the theme "One United
Asia," that all the facilities would be built in an
environmentally friendly manner, and outlined plans for an
international cultural festival to coincide with the Games.


Korea will now organise an inter-ministerial support committee
headed by new Prime Minister Han Duck-Soo, appointed last month,
to mobilise resources for the Games.


Prior to the final vote, Incheon promised to raise 20 million
dollars to support Asian countries that have not yet won medals
in the Asian Games.


New Delhi was unable to match that figure.


"Korea's accumulated experience from hosting some of the world's
greatest sporting events together with its advanced
infrastructure, its surging economy and its passion for sports
means Incheon is a safe bet," the presentation said.


"The events will encourage friendship and unity on the Korean
peninsula, in Northeast Asia and across the continent."


Incheon, a commercial and logistics hub for Northeast Asia with a
population of 2.4 million, is best known as being the country's
key gateway. South Korea's main international airport opened near
the city in 2001.


New Delhi had based its "bid of a billion people" on its
hospitality and said publicly it would offer free flights and
accommodation to all the participants if it won.


It also said it would have the necessary infrastructure in place
with the Commonwealth Games being held in Delhi in 2010.


Hosting an Asian Games is a monumental task and the bar was set
even higher by Doha in December, which staged what was generally
considered the best Asiad to date.


Guangzhou in China hosts the 2010 event.

