

Arsene Wenger insists Arsenal's fans are right to boo his team
when they are below their best because he expects the Gunners to
be the Premiership's top entertainers.


Wenger's side had to endure jeers from sections of the Emirates
Stadium as they laboured to break down Manchester City on Tuesday
before finally securing a 3-1 victory that effectively guaranteed
a place in the Champions League.


Arsenal are now third in the Premiership and, more importantly,
they have opened up an eight-point gap over fifth-placed Everton.


That would be enough to satisfy supporters of most clubs, but
Arsenal's 60,000 regulars are harder to please. They are often
infuriated by their team's penchant for over-elaborating when
they have opponents under pressure and, after a season that has
promised more than has actually been delivered, they are quick to
show their frustration.


But Wenger is adamant his players have a responsibility to both
entertain and provide the winning football all fans desire.


"The crowd doesn't irritate me," he said. "As a professional you
have to deal with that.


"People coming here pay good money and sometimes they let their
frustrations out with the team over a bad pass.


"When we can't do what they want they are not happy, but we have
to deal with that. I understand it and in a big city it is
different as well.


"It's down to us to transport them to a different world. People
are impatient. They want to win. When we don't win as quickly as
they want, they get frustrated."


City boss Stuart Pearce knows how it feels to be on the receiving
end of criticism from fans after a difficult season at Eastlands.


He said: "After 60 minutes I was sitting there very comfortably.
The fans were booing Arsenal and that is a nice feeling when you
are away from home.


"That is the nature of the Premiership now. I don't think there
is a team this year that hasn't been booed at home at some stage.
Probably Manchester United and Chelsea might be exceptions but
the rest of us have all experienced it.


"Sometimes there is a bigger picture but people pay good money.
The next time I go to the theatre I am going to let some
thespians have it. It might make me feel better and then I'll
claim I pay their wages when I leave."


At least Arsenal eventually sent their fans home happy. Tomas
Rosicky opened the scoring in the 12th minute when he turned in
Emmanuel Eboue's cross.


But goalkeeper Jens Lehmann gifted City an equaliser with a weak
clearance that fell straight to Joey Barton. The England
midfielder found Michael Johnson and he slipped an astute pass to
DaMarcus Beasley, who scored with a low shot into the far corner.


For long periods Arsenal were content to zip the ball about with
their usual range of flicks and feints embellishing, and
occasionally disrupting, their attacking momentum.


Aided by Arsenal's indulgent streak, City held out until the 73rd
minute.


Fabregas started the move that broke their resistance with a pass
to Rosicky and, when Nedum Onuoha's clearance rebounded to the
Spaniard, he finished it in style with a fierce 25-yard strike.


They grabbed a third in the 79th minute. Alexander Hleb cut in
from the right and fed Julio Baptista, who easily beat Andreas
Isaksson with a low first-time shot.


Fabregas had gone 47 games without a goal until he hit the winner
against Bolton on Saturday but, if his effort here is anything to
go by, he finally seems to be getting a taste for goal-scoring at
just the right time.


Wenger said: "Fabregas didn't score for a while and when you make
an obsession of things it doesn't come naturally. When you are
not obssessed by it any more the relief comes. That allowed him
to score tonight.


"When you see the chances he has had since the start of the
season you are not surprised he scores. You need to score the
first once that is the most difficult. He said it was not an
obsession but you could see from the way he celebrated on
Saturday.


"There is still an injection to come from him. He is just 19.
From 19 to 22 you go from young boy to a man. But he can already
dominate a game even though he is just a young boy."

