

Goals from Michael Carrick and Wayne Rooney allowed Manchester
United to turn the screw on Chelsea with a 2-0 win over Sheffield
United here on Tuesday.


Jose Mourinho's defending champions still have six games
remaining, starting with Wednesday's visit to West Ham, but
United's success puts them six points clear and places the
pressure firmly back onto Chelsea's shoulders.


Almost implausibly, the match opened with the lowly visitors
carving out the first real goal-scoring opportunity after only
four minutes, Ryan Giggs's inaccurate back pass being intercepted
by Luton Shelton who led the United defence a merry dance until
being upended in front of goal by Paul Scholes.


Michael Tonge took the resulting free-kick a few feet outside the
home penalty area and struck a well-driven shot through the
United wall for deputy keeper Tomasz Kuszczak to make a
smothering save.


The moment served as an early warning for United's injury-
depleted defence and was as good as things would get for
Sheffield as, within seconds, United were in front.


Carrick, scorer of two goals a week ago in the rout of Roma, was
again on the mark as Alan Smith and Cristiano Ronaldo engaged in
a slick passing exercise and the latter split Sheffield's massed
defensive ranks with a telling pass.


The United midfielder rounded the move off by lifting the ball
expertly over the advancing Paddy Kenny.


Rooney should have doubled the lead two minutes later after he
controlled Carrick's fabulous pass with a deft touch, only to see
his shot blocked by the keeper but another shot by Tonge and
another energetic burst from Shelton were warnings that, while
the lead only stood at one goal, the visitors were still a
threat.


Neil Warnock's team, resting five players ahead of the weekend's
crucial relegation visit to Charlton, offered another concern for
the league leaders with their physical approach, forcing Ferguson
to take off Patrice Evra after 20 minutes, following a bad foul
by Colin Kazim-Richards.


Moments earlier, Derek Geary had earned the game's first caution
for wrestling Ronaldo to the ground.


Giggs and Rooney had shots blocked by Phil Jagielka and Kenny,
respectively, and Rooney placed a header straight into the
keeper's arms.


Yet Sheffield's threat on the counter-attack remained and, before
the break, Kazim-Richards found the overlapping Shelton who shot
into the side-netting.


The visitors' dogged persistence was beginning to frustrate the
home team, Rooney in particular, the England forward being booked
just before the interval for taking the latest in a series of
swipes at opponents' legs, Phil Jagielka his victim on this
occasion.


When Jagielka found room to chance his arm with an inaccurate
30-yard shot early after the restart, Sheffield supporters could
have been forgiven for dreaming of the impossible.


However, Rooney demonstrated the other side of his football
character after just five minutes of the period, surging between
two defenders who had been separated by a superb Giggs pass, and
giving Kenny no chance with his 20th goal of the season, a
personal best for the England man.


It was not until they were two goals behind that Sheffield carved
out their best chance of the game as Matthew Kilgallon played in
Shelton for a glorious opportunity which, predictably, the
forward wasted with a wayward shot.


Thereafter, the only issue remained to what extent the
Premiership leaders would improve their goal difference advantage
over the defending champions.


In the space of five minutes, Smith's wicked shot ricocheted off
Kenny, Ronaldo was denied by the goalkeeper's expert save and
Giggs was far too casual in trying to beat Kenny from a dozen
yards, allowing the keeper to save with an outstretched leg.


Any distant hope of a miraculous Sheffield recovery disappeared
in the 68th minute when Shelton, yet again demonstrating
electrifying speed, chased through on goal only to be
dispossessed by Gabriel Heinze - a fair challenge in the view of
referee Rob Styles, a foul according to Warnock and his team with
the television replays supporting the penalty appeal.

