

Ugandan police fired live bullets, tear gas canisters and beat
people on the streets of Kampala on Tuesday as opposition leaders
attempted to hold a press briefing, eyewitnesses said.


The trouble began when police hurled tear gas canisters at
opposition leaders heading to a press briefing to demand the
release of people arrested in a land protest last week.


Police allowed the event to proceed but as the opposition leaders
left the capital's Roman Catholic Church compound they were met
with more tear gas and pepper spray, an AFP correspondent
reported.


A group of armed men in civilian clothes then rushed from the
nearby Central Police Station and started clobbering civilians in
the streets that had already been barricaded by police.


It was not clear if there were any casualties, nor why the police
acted in the way they did.


The leaders of the Forum for Democratic Change, the Democratic
Party, the Conservative Party and the Justice Forum called the
briefing to demand the release of 27 people, including two
opposition leaders, from police custody.


They were detained on suspicion of taking part in Thursday's
protest against government plans to cut down a swathe of the
Mabira Forest Reserve east of Kampala to pave the way for an
Indian-owned firm to plant sugarcane.


Three people were killed in the protests, including an asian man
stoned to death and two Ugandans shot by private guards.


On Tuesday police charged four suspects with murder and 19 others
with participating in an illegal demonstration, their lawyer
said.


"The 19, including the two MPs, were allowed bail, but remained
in custody because it was late for the court to process bail,"
their lawyer told AFP. The fate of the three others remained
unclear.


In a joint statement the opposition parties demanded the release
of the detainees, saying: "Failure to respond to this call shall
leave us with no option but (to) enjoin the masses into a civil
action."


Ugandan activists have vowed to oppose the planned clearance of
around 7,000 of the 30,000-hectare (75,000-acre) Mabira Forest
Reserve.

