

The United States wants the international community to act
swiftly to help the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo win
independence, a senior US official said Tuesday.


"We must now act quickly in the next weeks and months to finish
the job by helping to lead Kosovo to independence," Nicholas
Burns, the number three official at the US State Department, told
a US Congress panel.


The UN Security Council is to debate in the coming weeks an
independence proposal unveiled by UN chief mediator Martti
Ahtisaari late last month.


The United States "fully supports" Ahtisaari's plan, Burns told
the House Foreign Affairs Committee.


"In particular, we believe that supervised independence for
Kosovo is now the only way forward," said Burns, the under
secretary for political affairs.


The Security Council agreed last week to send a fact-finding
mission to Kosovo and Belgrade ahead of the debate on Ahtisaari's
plan.


Russia, one of the council's five veto-wielding members and an
ally of Serbia, has objected to Ahtisaari's independence
proposal.


And Serbia, which is adamantly opposed to independence for a
province it regards as the cradle of its civilization, reacted
angrily Tuesday to Burns's comments.


"The Serbian government is giving a timely warning that Belgrade
will reject any recognition of Kosovo's independence as invalid
since it will be nothing but direct interference in Serbia's
internal affairs," the government said.


"Any recognition of the independence of Kosovo will be in brutal
violation of the UN norms, the UN Charter and the valid
Resolution 1244," it added.


The Ahtisaari plan, which has been endorsed by Kosovo Albanians,
the European Union and the United States, is to be debated in the
coming weeks, probably next month, by the Security Council, which
must decide Kosovo's future status.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


Burns said that in the coming weeks the United States would
sponsor a new Security Council resolution which would "not
actually confer independence on Kosovo. Rather it will remove
political and legal impediments to independence."


"We expect that Kosovo's leaders will subsequently declare their
independence. The US and other countries will then recognize the
new state," he said.


"Our goal is to bring the Kosovo process to a timely and
successful conclusion by the end of this spring."


He called on Russia to put aside its objections and not to block
the discussions at the United Nations.


"Any attempt to block Kosovo's independence will not succeed as
Kosovo's independence is now, we believe, inevitable," Burns
said.


The head of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Democratic
Representative Tom Lantos, backed Burns's position.


"The tide of history cannot be turned back. Serbia has lost all
legitimacy to assert sovereignty over Kosovo," he said.

