

Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen, who was re-elected by
parliament on Tuesday after winning last month's election,
announced a new centre-right coalition made up of more women than
men.


The new four-party cabinet will comprise 12 women ministers and
eight men, with women heading up the ministries of justice,
labour, communications, European affairs, education, transport
and agriculture among others.


The coalition, which will be formally appointed by President
Tarja Halonen on Thursday, will consist of Vanhanen's Centre
Party, the conservatives, the Greens and the Swedish People's
Party.


Together the four parties will hold 125 of the 200 seats in
parliament.


Vanhanen, who has been prime minister since 2003, won the support
of 121 of 200 members of parliament in Tuesday's vote.


Seventy opposition members -- from the Social Democrats,
Christian Democrats, far-left Left Alliance and far-right True
Finns -- voted against Vanhanen.


The Centre Party won the March 18 elections with a one-seat
advantage over the conservative National Coalition Party, which
knocked the Social Democrats out of the ruling coalition and into
opposition for the first time since 1991.


The conservatives and the Centre Party will each hold eight
portfolios in the new cabinet, while the Greens and the Swedish
People's Party will each hold two portfolios.


In addition to the post of prime minister, the Centre Party will
have the posts of foreign trade and development aid, agriculture,
transport, trade and industry, health and social affairs,
municipal affairs, and the environment.


But the conservatives, which were the surprise big winners in the
election as they took 10 new seats in parliament, will hold the
most influential portfolios.


They will have the ministries of foreign affairs, finance,
interior, defense, educations, communications, housing and social
services.


The 35-year-old head of the conservatives, Jyrki Katainen, will
become finance minister and deputy prime minister.


The Greens will head the ministries of justice and labour, while
the Swedish People's Party will be in charge of the ministries of
European affairs and immigration as well as culture and sports.

