

The Security Council held a groundbreaking debate on the security
implications of climate change Tuesday, but several UN members
questioned whether the 15-member body was the appropriate forum.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, whose country chairs
the powerful council this month, opened the debate, stressing the
need for shared understanding of the linkage between energy,
climate and security.


It was the first time that global warming was debated in the
council, which is tasked with preserving international peace and
security.


"This is a groundbreaking day. For the first time we will debate
climate change as a matter of international peace and security,"
Beckett told reporters ahead of the debate.


She hailed the fact that a record 52 countries agreed to
participate.


"An unstable climate will exacerbate some of the core drivers of
conflict -- such as migratory pressures and competition for
resources," she warned in response to charges by some council
members that the council was not the appropriate forum to deal
with the issue.


"The recent Stern Report speaks of a potential economic
disruption on the scale of the two World Wars and the Great
Depression," she added. "That alone will inevitably have an
impact on all of our security -- developed and developing
countries alike."


In a landmark report commissioned by the British government,
economist and climate change guru Nicolas Stern warned last year
that climate change could bring economic disaster on the scale of
the world wars and the 1930s Great Depression unless urgent
action was taken.


Beckett cited the need "to begin to build a shared understanding
of the relationship between energy, climate and security."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon also told the council that "issues of energy
an climate change have implications for peace and security."


As examples, he said that scarce resources such as water and food
could help turn peaceful competition into violence while
migrations driven by climate change could deepen tensions and
conflict.


"Limited or threatened access to energy is already known to be a
powerful driver of conflict," he added, urging multilateral
action to prevent such dire scenarios.


Speaking on behalf of the European Union, German Economic
Cooperation Minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul agreed.


"Climate change will become an ever more important factor among
root causes for conflict as the climate will continue to change
at a faster rate," she said.


"The cost of inaction on climate change is far outweighed by the
consequences of inaction," she added, urging the many UN
institutions dealing with the issue to "work hand-in-hand in a
cooperative manner".


"No institution can claim an exclusive competence for this cross-
cutting issue," she said.


But there were also dissenting voices.


Speaking on behalf of Third World countries grouped in the Group
of 77 and China, Pakistan's UN delegate Farukh Amil said it was
"inappropriate" to consider the issue of energy in the council.


"The ever-increasing encroachment by the Security Council on the
roles and responsibilities of other principal organs of the UN
represents a distortion of the principles and purposes of the UN
Charter," he said.


Amil added that the appropriate forum to deal with the risks
associated with global warming was the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC).


South Africa's UN Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo made a similar
point, urging instead "appropriate UN bodies" to strengthen the
capacity of the least developing countries, especially in Africa
and Asia, to deal with disaster and humanitarian crises spawned
by climate change.


He expressed hope that the debate "will not in any way elevate
the issue of climate or environment to being an agenda item of
the Security Council."

