

A French court on Tuesday ordered construction work on a mosque
in the Mediterranean port of Marseille to be suspended in
response to legal action by far-right groups.


The court found in favour of the National Front (FN), the
Movement for France (MPF) and the National Republican Movement
(MNR), who accused the city of granting a veiled subsidy for the
mosque's construction, violating French law on the separation of
Church and state.


Marseille city hall decided last July to break a decades-long
deadlock over the future mosque by allocating a plot of land for
its construction, on a 99-year lease, for a charge of 300 euros
per year.


The Marseille administrative court overturned the city's
decision, ruling that the generous conditions amounted to a
subsidy in disguise, demanding that the mosque renegotiate the
terms of the lease in the next two months.


Jean-Claude Gondard, secretary general of Marseille city hall,
said the court decision would cause a delay of three to four
months at most, and that a new lease would be submitted to the
city council in June.


He said the city was committed to file for planning permission in
the autumn, but that "the mosque's opponents are very political,
and liable to try to block the project every step of the way."


Moulay Abderrahmane Ghoul, regional head of the French Council
for the Mulsim Religion, denounced the far-right lawsuit as a
"xenophobic and racist political act", but said "the city's will
to build the mosque" was not in question.


But the MNR hailed the decision as a "judicial and political
victory... against the Islamisation of France."


And Philippe de Villiers, presidential candidate for the Catholic
nationalist MPF, welcomed the ruling, calling for a moratorium on
all mosque constructions and a charter "imposing respect for the
laws of the republic on Islam".


While Marseille's Muslim community is estimated at around 250,000
people, the city's 62 places of worship provide room for only
around 6,200 faithful.


The first plans for a Great Mosque in Marseille go back to the
1930s, but the project repeatedly floundered due to divisions
within the city's Muslim community, as well as a degree of
resistance from the local population.


Eager to catch up with other major cities such as Paris, Lyon and
Strasbourg, which either have or plan to build Great Mosques,
Marseille agreed to make available an 8,000 square-metre (two
acre) plot of land in the north of the city to the association in
charge of the project.


Construction work is not expected to start for several years
however, since the Muslim community has yet to start collecting
the eight to 10 million euros (10 to 13 million dollars) needed
for the project.


The money must come from private donations and foreign
contributions will be tightly monitored and limited to 20 or 30
percent of the total.

