

Coalition forces have intercepted Iranian-made mortars and
explosives in Afghanistan destined for the Taliban, the top US
military chief said Tuesday, suggesting an expanding Iranian
challenge to US forces in the region.


General Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said the weapons were intercepted in the Kandahar region within
the past month, but it was not known if any elements of the
Iranian government were involved.


"It is not as clear in Afghanistan which Iranian entity is
responsible. But we have intercepted weapons in Afghanistan
headed for the Taliban that were made in Iran," he told defense
reporters here.


"We do not know with the same clarity that we know in Iraq who
was involved. So the fact that we know is: made in Iran, being
delivered to the Taliban in Afghanistan, being intercepted by
coalition forces. That's all we know about." he said.


Pace said the weapons intercepted were mortars and C-4-type
explosives.


He said it was unclear whether they were shipped directly from
Iran or via another more tortuous route.


Senior US officials have repeatedly accused the Iranian
Revolutionary Guards' elite Quds Force of arming and training
Shiite militias in Iraq for attacks on US forces.


But Pace's remarks suggest high level concern that the Iranians
may now be expanding those operations into Afghanistan, where a
NATO-led force is confronted with the biggest Taliban resurgence
since its ouster in 2001.


Iran's Shiite regime supported the Northern Alliance led by Ahmed
Shah Massoud against the Taliban during a decade of internal
conflict that left the country awash in weapons. It initially
cooperated with US forces in Afghanistan.


As recently as mid-February, a former top US commander in
Afghanistan, Lietuenant General Karl Eikenberry, said there was
no evidence that Taliban fighters had received Iranian weapons
although Iranian security organizations maintained contacts with
them.


"We don't know if Iranians are providing weapons to the Taliban
but there are reports about efforts being made by Iranians to
make contacts with Taliban and other circles," an Afghan defense
ministry official said Tuesday in Kabul.


Asked how the United States should respond to Iranian-backed
attacks on US forces, Pace said: "I think we should continue to
be aggressive inside Iraq, we should continue to be aggressive
inside Afghanistan, in attacking any element involved in
attacking US and coalition forces regardless of where they come
from."


But he said the use of direct military force against Iran was a
tool of last resort.


"There is a lot more diplomacy -- I mean not between the United
States and Iran but by all the nations of the world and Iran --
that can still be brought to bear to change Iran's policies," he
said.


"Military force is the last tool, not the first tool," he said.


His comments came as US Defense Secretary Robert Gates was in the
Middle East to discuss Iran with Arab allies in the region.


US Iranian-tensions have been on the rise over Tehran's nuclear
program and what the Washington says is a flow of sophisticated
Iranian explosives and other weapons and training to groups in
Iraq.


The US military is holding five Iranians captured in the northern
Iraqi city of Arbil who it says were Quds Force operatives
involved in a network carrying out bomb attacks against US
forces.


Washington, meanwhile, has stationed a second aircraft carrier
battle group in the Gulf, raising its military profile there to
its highest levels since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.


Pace has been careful to narrow US charges to hard evidence of
Iranian involvement, stepping in to correct unidentified US
military briefers when they asserted in February that the Iranian
government was involved "at the highest levels."


"What we know is that in aggressively going after the IED
(improvised explosive device) network in Iraq, we policed up some
Iranian Quds Force members," he said.


"We know that there are munitions that were made in Iran that are
in Iraq and Afghanistan. We know that the Quds Force works for
the IRGC (Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps). Full stop."


"We then surmise from that one of two things: either the
leadership of the country knows what their armed forces are
doing, or they don't know. In either case it's a problem," he
said.

