

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte arrived on Tuesday
in Tripoli, the first visit by such a high-ranking Washington
official to the former pariah state in over 50 years, an AFP
reporter said.


Negroponte, on a four-nation African tour focused on trying to
resolve the crisis in Sudan's western Darfur region, is to hold
talks Wednesday with Libya's pointman for Africa, Abdel Salam
Triki, the US embassy here said.


Triki, assistant foreign minister for African affairs, last week
shuttled between N'Djamena and Khartoum mediating between Chad
and Sudan after deadly border clashes between their troops.


The Libyan government has tried to mediate between the two
countries in recent months by posting Libyan monitors on the
border and calling on both Chad and Sudan to respect agreements
signed in Tripoli in 2006.


But the two countries routinely trade accusations, with Chad
complaining that Sudanese raid villages near the border and Sudan
accusing Chad of violating international agreements.


Negroponte flew in to the Libyan capital from Chad, where he paid
a brief visit following a five-day stay in Sudan during which he
pushed Khartoum to accept the deployment of a robust UN-African
Union peacekeeping force to stem violence that has steadily
escalated since the Darfur conflict erupted in 2003.


The State Department had said Negroponte would during his trip,
that will also take him to Mauritania, rally support from Sudan's
neighbours to help end the conflict.


Sudan on Monday accepted the second phase of a UN plan to bring
stability to Darfur that will add 3,000 UN troops to an under-
manned African Union force in the war-torn region.


The three-phase plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi
Annan is supposed to culminate with the deployment of UN
peacekeepers to bolster the embattled African force in Darfur, a
region the size of France.


Negroponte while in Sudan warned Khartoum that it faced isolation
if it didn't accept all phases of the plan.


Washington's number two diplomat is the first high-ranking US
official to visit Libya since then Secretary of State John Dulles
held talks with Libyan officials in Tripoli in 1953.


Relations between Libya and the United States were severed in
1981 but restored in May 2006 after Washington removed the north
African state from its list of countries that support terrorism.


Some 200,000 people have been killed and more than two million
driven from their homes in Darfur, according to the United
Nations, which has reported widespread human rights abuses in the
region.

