

Unprecedented carnage at Virginia Tech university in the United
States Monday has aroused painful memories in Canada where dozens
died in similar tragedies, despite this country's strict gun
laws.


Newspaper headlines across Canada shouted "Bloody mayhem," "In
cold blood" and "This time, 33" while editorials lamented: "It's
a story with which we're all too familiar."


Since the 1970s, dozens of teachers and students have been shot
at schools across Canada. The attackers included a jilted
teenager and a student upset about his grades.


In April 2000, a 14-year-old boy shot two students, one fatally
at WR Myers High School in Taber, Alberta, only eight days after
the Columbine massacre in Littleton, Colorado.


Four students and a staff member were also wounded in a knife
attack at an Ottawa area high school on the first anniversary of
the Columbine massacre.


But the worst slaughter in Canada occurred in December 1989 when
Marc Lepine, 25, shot dead 14 women at Montreal's Ecole
polytechnique engineering school, leaving a trail of blood as he
moved from one classroom to another.


Then, using the semi-automatic weapon he had purchased at a local
sporting goods store, he killed himself.


Lepine claimed in a suicide note published in La Presse that he
was fighting feminism, blaming the ideology for ruining his life.


Three years later, Valery Fabrikant went on a shooting rampage at
Concordia University in the same Canadian metropolis, killing
four colleagues and wounding one.


And in September 2006, 25-year-old Kimveer Gill opened fire at
Dawson College in Montreal, killing one woman and injuring 20
people.


Dawson College councilor Peter Cooperman said he had never before
experienced the anxiety and depression felt by students and
teachers after the September 2006 attack.


Many reported sleeplessness and an inability to concentrate, and
some students were unable to return to school, he told public
broadcaster CBC.


He would be looking for more of those signs in the days to come
after the shooting in Virginia, particularly for students who had
not dealt with their original emotions after what happened here,
he said.


"It affects you. If you're not safe at school, where are you
safe?" one Dawson College student told CBC.


Andrea Barone, who barely survived the Dawson shooting, told the
Ottawa Citizen: "You don't feel the same, you're always looking
over your shoulder."


After the 1989 Montreal killings, the federal government passed
gun control legislation, which, the Globe and Mail said, "may
have helped limit the carnage" in subsequent assaults.


"Mr. Lepine used a gun that could fire 30 bullets, but the 1991
law that followed his attack limited most rifles to five rounds
of ammunition and handguns to 10 rounds," the daily noted.


The newspaper said in an editorial: "Canada has had school
shootings, but they have been much less common, and the
outpouring of rage and disbelief has prompted the country's
legislators to react."


The estimated 6.8 million guns in Canada are overwhelmingly used
for hunting.


Suicidal rampages, usually motivated by revenge, occur around the
globe, but some blame the relative ease of acquiring guns for
their impact on US victims.


Gilles Tremblay at the University of Laval is not so sure: "We
certainly have stricter gun control laws in Canada and Canadians
are generally less absorbed by gun culture, which helps us, but
we're not immune."

