

Ireland captain Trent Johnston is looking for his side to repeat
the effort they showed in defeating Bangladesh when they face Sri
Lanka here Wednesday in their final World Cup Super Eights match.


The Irish, a mainly amateur side featuring a postman and an
electrician, although Eoin Morgan, Niall O'Brien and William
Porterfield, are all with English counties, have been the
surprise package of this World Cup.


They surprised many observers by tieing with Zimbabwe before
creating the major shock of the tournament when defeating
Pakistan by three wickets last month in a group match in Jamaica
- a result that effectively knocked the 1992 champions out of the
competition.


And on Sunday they enjoyed another morale-boosting success with a
74-run win over Bangladesh - a victory that means they have now
qualified for the International Cricket Council (ICC) one-day
championship table.


"We've been strong in two of the three areas right throughout the
tournament but not put all three together until Bangladesh," said
Johnston.


"If we can reproduce that we are going to be competitive."


Reflecting on Ireland's longer than expected participation in
their first World Cup, all-rounder Johnston said: "There have
been a lot of high points - the way we fought back against
Zimbabwe to get us going, and then obviously Pakistan was huge on
St Patrick's Day.


"We've been away from home since January 7, and it's been a
massive four months for us.


"A few of the guys are looking forward to getting home to a bit
of reality," Australia-born Johnston added.


Sri Lanka, already through to the semi-finals, caused controversy
by omitting star bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan
from the side that suffered a seven-wicket defeat against world
champions Australia here Monday.


"Every other team we've played against has put their full-
strength side against us - which is a credit to the way we've
played in this tournament," Johnston, whose wife is Irish, said.


"It's phenomenal and a hell of an achievement for these 15 guys,
our coaching staff and Irish cricket."


Ireland had a pre-World Cup training camp in Port Elizabeth
organised by their South African coach Adrian Birrell, the former
Eastern Province leg-spinner, before travelling to Kenya for the
World Cricket League, a one-day tournament for the leading non-
Test nations.


"We laid the foundations of our success in Port Elizabeth," said
Birrell, who returns to South Africa after the World Cup.


Birrell admitted to mixed emotions as he contemplated the end of
his four-years as Ireland coach.


"It's a feeling of sadness, in one way. It's been a long journey,
and enjoyable one and a satisfying one."

