

Russia said Tuesday it was "not optimistic" its concerns over a
planned US missile defense system would be taken into account as
the United States said it had new proposals for cooperating with
Moscow on the scheme.


"We hope, although I will say sincerely that I am not optimistic,
that Washington will listen to our analyses and worries," Igor
Ivanov, head of the Russian national security council, said ahead
of Russian talks with NATO on the missile system in Brussels on
Thursday.


"If Washington decides to follow its path without taking the
concerns of Russia and other countries into account, we will
analyse this situation from the perspective of the security of
Russia and our allies and partners," Ivanov said at a news
conference.


Ivanov's downbeat tone contrasted starkly with comments from a
senior US official who held talks in Moscow on the missile
defense plan with Russian political and military officials.


"We brought with us some new ideas for cooperation and made it
clear that we were open to cooperation with Russia across a broad
range of missile defense activities," US Assistant Secretary of
State John Rood told AFP in a telephone interview after his
meetings.


Rood declined to offer more detail on what the United States was
proposing to Russia, which has made clear that it considers US
plans to base elements of a new missile defense system in eastern
Europe as a threat to Russian security.


The US ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO), Victoria Nuland, also stated last month that Washington
was talking with Russia about areas of bilateral cooperation on
missile defenses.


The United States has come under criticism, including from some
NATO allies, for allegedly failing to address Russia's stated
worries about the new missile system, though Washington says it
has been discussing the plan with Moscow for years.


Rood admitted that the controversial US plan was "clearly an area
where we need further conversation between our two governments".


The United States is in talks with Poland on stationing 10
interceptor missiles in that country and plans soon to begin
formal negotiations with the Czech Republic on basing a radar for
the system there.


Washington has said that the new system is needed to defend the
United States and some European allies against future ballistic
missile threats from "rogue states" like Iran.


Another senior Russian diplomat, Alexander Grushko, said
separately that Russia intended to have serious talks with NATO
countries by the end of the month on the US missile defense
scheme and the enlargement of the Atlantic alliance into eastern
Europe.


"We are counting on a deep and serious discussion in Oslo
concerning all aspects of the relationship between Russia and
NATO, Grushko said in an interview with Interfax news agency.


Russia has been invited to attend a scheduled meeting of NATO
defense ministers in the Norwegian capital on April 26 and 27.

