

An obscure Islamic fundamentalist group on Tuesday killed 12
police officers and one civilian in an attack on a police station
in the northern Nigerian city of Kano, police said.


The attack came despite attempts by the authorities to step up
security in the region following weekend violence across Nigeria
that claimed 21 lives following Saturday's regional elections.


An officer at the scene on Tuesday told AFP that the armed group,
comprised of men and women wearing red turbans and scarves,
attacked the suburban police post in broad daylight, killing the
station chief, his wife and 11 officers.


Police said they did not think Tuesday's attack was related to
the polls.


The earlier unrest had prompted the authorities in Kano, the most
populous city in northern Nigeria and a flashpoint for both
religious and communal violence, to impose a dusk-to-dawn curfew
ahead of next weekend's presidential vote.


Kano State police spokesman Baba Mohamed confirmed the bodies of
13 people were taken to the morgue.


He said the attack was committed by a group known locally as the
Taliban because of its admiration for the former rulers of
Afghanistan, and had nothing to do with the ongoing elections.


"This has nothing to do with politics. It is purely religious.
The same group that called itself Taliban which launched attacks
in Yobe and Borno respectively in September 2004 and June 2005
were responsible for this attack in Kano," he said.


The Taliban group was best known for trying to convert villagers
in the northeastern Yobe state to a stricter form of Islam. But
in December 2003 the group launched its first documented violent
attack, killing one policemen.


Nigerian police have in the past said that at least one of the
group's leaders trained with the Taliban in Afghanistan.


Haz Iwendi, a spokesman for the federal police in the Nigerian
capital Abuja, said Tuesday's attacks were "the handiwork of
Muslim fundamentalists".


"We want to flush them out from where they are presently holed
up, arrest them and bring them to justice," he said by telephone.


Witness estimates of the number of assailants varied wildly from
40 to ten times that number. They said the attackers briefly
occupied the station and were surrounded, but escaped into a
nearby abandoned waterworks building.


A combined team of soldiers and policemen closed all roads
leading to the town, preventing people from reaching the area,
the News Agency of Nigeria said.


Earlier, Nigeria's independent electoral commission calmed many
fears of civil unrest by saying it would comply with Monday's
Supreme Court ruling that Vice President Atiku Abubakar has the
right to stand in the April 21 poll.


This weekend's vote is expected to usher in Nigeria's first
civilian-to civilian handover since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1960.


Abubakar, the presidential candidate for the Action Congress (AC)
party, is one of two opposition candidates expected to give the
ruling party's Umaru Yar'Adua a tough contest in the poll.

