

British inflation spiked to a decade-high 3.1 percent in March,
placing pressure on the Bank of England and finance minister
Gordon Brown as he bids to become prime minister later this year.


Tuesday's inflation data forced BoE governor Mervyn King to write
an unprecedented letter to Brown, explaining why British 12-month
inflation breached a government-set ceiling of 3.0 percent last
month.


It also caused a spike in the value of sterling, which broke
through the 2.0-dollar level and touched as high as 2.0074
dollars, last seen more than 14 years ago in September 1992.


King said that part of the increase was attributable to a rise in
oil prices. Political opponents of Brown insisted that the Labour
minister's economic credentials had been tarnished.


The data has cemented analysts' expectations of a quarter-point
rise in British interest rates next month to 5.50 percent, which
caused the rise in the value of sterling, analysts said.


An increase in interest rates will tend to attract short-term
money from abroad, increasing demand for sterling.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who will step down later this
year, staunchly defended Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown, who
is widely seen as his successor.


"The remarkable thing is that this is the first time that the
governor of the Bank of England has written such a letter," Blair
told journalists gathered for his monthly press conference on
Tuesday.


"I challenge anyone to name me a chancellor with a better
economic record than this one."


Brown will face fresh criticism late on Tuesday when the main
opposition Conservative party tables a vote of no-confidence in
parliament over his 1997 decision to overhaul pensions taxation.


"This inflation rise is terrible news for Gordon Brown on the day
that he faces his first ever no-confidence motion," Conservative
shadow chancellor George Osborne said.


"Whether it is the destruction of the pensions system or the
broader performance of the economy, Gordon Brown's reputation for
economic competence is unravelling before our eyes."


The strong pound is a boon for Britons travelling to the United
States because they can buy goods and services there more
cheaply. However, it hampers British companies whose exports will
be more expensive for customers paying in dollars.


The dollar was also pressured on Tuesday by softer-than-expected
US inflation data which increased speculation that the US Federal
Reserve could soon cut American interest rates, which stand at
5.25 percent.


The inflation data on Tuesday from Britain's Office for National
Statistics showed that inflation had hit 3.1 percent last month,
the highest level since 1997, underscored by large price
increases for transport, food, non-alcoholic beverages and
furniture.


"March's unexpectedly strong consumer prices data ... and the
subsequent open letter from Mervyn King to the chancellor leave a
rise in interest rates in May virtually certain and make a
further tightening beyond May probably a bit more likely,"
Capital Economics analyst Jonathan Loynes said.


The reading significantly overshot analysts' consensus forecasts
of 2.8 percent, which was also the official figure for February.


In his explanatory letter, King wrote that inflation had moved
above target owing partly to increased crude oil prices.


"Since February, sterling oil prices have risen by around 25
percent, reversing part of the fall in prices seen in the second
half of last year," King said.


"Higher petrol prices contributed significantly to this pick up
of inflation in March."


He added that the central bank was "determined" to bring
inflation back to the 2.0-percent target.


Brown wrote in response that he "continued to support the MPC in
the forward- looking decisions it takes in the future."

