

Crude oil prices retreated Tuesday ahead of a key report on US
inventory levels as traders concluded the big gains last week may
have been overdone.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 51 cents to close at 63.10 dollars per
barrel.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery shed 1.32
dollars to settle at 65.93 dollars per barrel in London.


John Kilduff at Fimat USA said trading was influenced by news
that production would resume at a key Nigerian oil field and that
at least one refinery in Texas was starting back up.


These developments "started to convince some participants that
perhaps it was time to collect profits," he said.


But Kilduff said a number of factors could push up prices in the
near term.


"The presidential elections in Nigeria are scheduled for April 21
and hold not only the promise of democracy but also the
possibility of renewed violence that could again disrupt oil
supplies," he said.


In the US, the weekly report on inventory levels is likely to
show "a familiar pattern with builds of crude oil and draws of
refined products stocks," he noted.


This has highlighted the fact that despite ample crude oil
supplies, the US market may see tight levels of gasoline because
of refinery problems.


"At present, a stormy geopolitical climate that potentially
threatens supply, a refinery infrastructure, prone to severe and
prolonged breakdowns and a basically sound global economy capable
of generating strong and consistent demand, represent kind of an
irresistible force," he said.


"At some point in the distance there is the immovable object of
resistance to rising prices. We aren't there yet, but that is the
point when the physics of the energy markets will change."


Noting the drop in oil inventories, the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) said on Monday it was
maintaining its forecast for growth of world oil demand in 2007
at 1.5 percent.


The market was also tracking an energy summit being held by South
American presidents that was to discuss topics ranging from
pipelines, refineries to a gas cartel.


The two-day summit beginning on Tuesday on Margarita island is
expected to focus on big-ticket regional projects promoted by
Venezuela, the only Latin American member of OPEC.

