

Foreign students at Virginia Tech University Tuesday said they
did not fear a backlash after a South Korean national was
identified as the gunman in the deadliest shooting in US history.


About 2,000 foreigners are enrolled at Virginia Tech, where 32
students and staff were shot dead by 23-year-old undergraduate
Cho Seung-Hui early Monday before he turned his gun upon himself.


It was the second gun rampage by a foreign-born national in the
United States in barely two months, coming after an 18-year-old
Bosnian teenager shot dead five people in a Salt Lake City
shopping mall in February.


Peter Chen, pastor of the Open Door Presbyterian Church near
Cho's hometown, said Koreans had so felt no special pressure, but
told AFP the possibility of stereotyping was "always the fear."


Yet as Virginia Tech struggled to come to terms with the
aftermath of Cho's bloody killing spree, student organisations
said they did not expect a possible backlash against foreigners
on the campus.


"We have over 2,000 foreign students here who have immigrated to
study and we're very welcoming of them," said Adeel Khan, an
American of Pakistani origin who is the president of Virginia
Tech's undergraduate student body.


"There is not going to be any backlash against foreign students.
We care about every student here whether from another country or
not," said Khan, 19, dismissing any suggestions Cho's attack may
have been racially motivated.


"It wasn't a hate crime or a crime against another country," he
said. "There is no such connection."


Khan said students would attempt to restore normalcy through a
"healing effort." "We are going to make it come back the way it
was through a healing effort," he said.


Aaron Mendelaw, 18, from New Jersey, said he did not expect a
backlash but wondered whether the tragedy might lead to a review
of enrolment policies.


"I don't think there will be a backlash," Mendelaw said. "There
might be more concern and the university might be more selective.


"This whole thing hasn't sunk in yet, it's surreal.


Luis Rivera, a freshman studying computer science who arrived on
campus in December from El Salvador, said he hoped foreign
students would not be blamed.


"I sure hope that there won't be any backlash," said Rivera. "The
acts of one student are affecting everyone. I hope that doesn't
happen," he said.


Marcella Fierro, the chief medical examiner for Virginia,
meanwhile said it would take several days to identify all 32
people amid reports that several of the victims were said to be
foreign students.


Reports from Lima said that 21-year-old Peruvian student Daniel
Perez Cueva was among the dead.


The Korean student association at Virginia Tech told the Yonhap
news agency that South Korean student Park Chang-Min was among
the injured. Park, a civil engineering student, was struck in the
arm by a bullet.


A crisis unit had been set up at Virginia Tech's conference
center to assist those seeking information about the dead and
wounded as well as offering counseling and support.


Dave Bhosale, 25, of India and a graduate of Virginia Tech who
now works in the information technology department, was at the
center trying to find out about an Indian student believed to be
among the victims.


"I know one Indian student who may be among the victims and I'm
trying to get some information on him but we haven't been able to
establish his whereabouts yet," he told AFP.


Sendeep Langar, 26, also of India, appeared disheveled and tired
as he sought to determine whether a female friend was among the
casualties.


"I haven't had any news from her since yesterday," he said,
adding the woman was in the building where the second shooting
took place.


The Japanese embassy in Washington meanwhile said none of its 38
nationals in Blacksburg who had registered with authorities,
including 17 thought to be students and officials at the
university, had been hurt.


The leader of the Association of Chinese Students and Scholars
(ACSS) at Virginia Tech told China's official Xinhua news agency
that he was not aware of any Chinese casualties.

