

Dutch bank ABN Amro said Tuesday it had extended its exclusive
takeover talks with British group Barclays until Friday, but had
invited rival bidders to talks next week.


The move seemed designed to put pressure on Barclays to reach an
agreement in the next few days after several rival banks
expressed an interest in buying the Dutch lender at the weekend.


ABN Amro said it had invited The Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's
Banco Santander and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis to talks in
Amsterdam next week "to seek clarification of their intentions
and interests."


Exclusive takeover talks between ABN and Barclays were set to
finish at the end of Tuesday, but ABN said the deadline for a
deal had been extended until midnight Friday.


The Dutch group cautioned however that a deal with Barclays was
not inevitable.


"ABN Amro and Barclays announced today that they have extended
the exclusivity period to the end of Friday 20 April 2007," a
statement on ABN Amro's website said.


"The discussions ... are progressing, but there can be no
certainty that they will lead to a transaction or the form it
will take," the statement added.


Analysts speculated on Tuesday that ABN Amro was putting pressure
on Barclays to pay more than 35 euros per share for the banking
group.


Many investors believe 35 euros is close to the maximum that
Barclays can afford to pay, valuing ABN Amro at more than 68
billion euros (92 billion dollars), dealers said.


Trader Rik Zwaneveld at Dutch broker AFS confirmed he had heard
rumours that ABN Amro was pressing Barclays for a higher price.


Another London-based dealer added: "It wouldn't be surprising if
they're asking for that much."


"Surely they need to if they have any chance of placating
shareholders."


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with the other groups
interested in buying the lender.


TCI, which had initially advocated a break up of the ABN Amro
group, had threatened to take legal action if ABN management did
not talk to potential buyers other than Barclays.


Shares in ABN Amro closed at 36.40 euros on the Amsterdam stock
exchange on Tuesday.


The Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander and Fortis declared
their common interest in takeover talks with ABN Amro on Sunday.


According to press reports, the three banks would divide up ABN
assets between themselves.

