

The mayor of the Japanese city of Nagasaki died early Wednesday
after being shot as he campaigned for re-election, police said,
in a crime allegedly linked to an underworld gang.


Iccho Ito, 61, succumbed to wounds sustained late Tuesday when he
was shot as he got out of a van at his election office facing
Nagasaki's central train station, a police spokesman in the
southern city told AFP.


Ito underwent emergency surgery late Tuesday, but the hospital
said a bullet had reached his heart and he did not regain
consciousness after the operation. The police spokesman said he
had died of massive blood loss.


Gun violence is rare in Japan, which strictly controls arms
possession.


But police said the suspect, identified as 59-year-old Tetsuya
Shiroo, was affiliated with Japan's largest organised crime
syndicate, the Yamaguchi-gumi.


Senior Nagasaki police official Kazuki Unebayashi said the
assailant, who was taken into custody immediately after the
incident, "fired several bullets at the back of the victim with
an intent to kill him."


Public broadcaster NHK, quoting unnamed sources, said Shiroo had
grievances with the city after his vehicle was damaged due to
poor maintenance on a road several years ago.


"I hope that authorities will investigate the case thoroughly and
get to the truth," Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said.


Ito was an outspoken pacifist who was born one month after the
best-known event in Nagasaki's history -- the world's second and
last atomic bombing on August 9, 1945 that killed more than
70,000 people.


A political independent, he had been campaigning for another term
in office ahead of elections scheduled for Sunday.


"At around 7:50 pm, I heard two gunshots, like bang, bang," the
owner of a restaurant near the scene told NHK.


"At first I didn't think it was gunfire," he said. "But when I
looked outside, a man was already apprehended."


Nagasaki has seen attacks on politicians before. In January 1990,
a right-wing extremist shot and wounded then mayor Hitoshi
Motoshima for saying he believed the late emperor Hirohito bore
responsibility for World War II.


Japan's last political assassination was in October 2002, when a
rightist stabbed to death Koki Ishii, an opposition lawmaker
campaigning to expose corruption, outside his Tokyo home with a
30-centimetre (12-inch) blade.


The Japanese "yakuza" are active in underworld crime, and have
interests in show business and other lucrative industries.


A report earlier this year by the National Police Agency said the
Yamaguchi- gumi, headquartered in the western city of Kobe, had
about 40,000 members and accounted for some 50 percent of Japan's
underworld.


The Yamaguchi-gumi has reportedly been trying to branch out from
its home ground, particularly in Tokyo, leading to a turf war
earlier this year that resulted in rare shootings in the capital.


Last year, in his annual address marking the atomic bombing, Ito
lashed out at the United States, North Korea, India and Pakistan
for their nuclear arsenals, asking, "What is the human race
doing?"


One witness to the shooting said he called emergency rescue teams
as soon as he heard the gunfire.


"I just got off a bus and was walking through the bus terminal. I
heard one bang. I only recall one. I thought a tyre might have
burst," the unidentified witness told NHK.


"A person had fallen over and a lady was in a panic. Then it
dawned on me that it was a gunshot," he said.


He said he saw five people tackle down the suspect. "He didn't
appear to have resisted," he said.

