

South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun said Tuesday he was
"indescribably shocked" after the perpetrator of the deadliest
school shooting in US history was identified as a Korean citizen.


Police in the United States identified the culprit as Cho Seung-
Hui, a legal US resident. They said he may have acted alone in
killing 32 people at Virginia Tech University before committing
suicide on Monday.


Roh, in his second statement issued on the crime, said he was
"indescribably shocked once again by the fact that the tragic
shooting incident at Virginia Tech on April 16 was caused by a
South Korean permanent resident."


He said he and the South Korean people expressed deep condolences
to the bereaved families, US President George W. Bush and all
Americans.


Roh urged ethnic Korean communities in the United States,
together with US citizens, to "wisely overcome" the difficulties
created by the tragedy.


Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon chaired a late-night emergency
staff meeting after news broke that the shooter was a Korean.


Cho was an undergraduate student in his senior year majoring in
English who lived on campus. His residence was in Centreville,
Virginia, and he had resident alien status.


"The government expresses indescribable surprise and shock over
this shooting incident," foreign ministry official Cho Byung-Jae
said in a televised statement.


"We convey deep condolences to the victims and their bereaved
families and the (US) people," said Cho, head of the ministry's
North American affairs bureau.


"We have established safety measures for ethnic Koreans in the US
in case of contingencies and are in close consultations with all
of our diplomatic missions and Korean communities in the US to
implement the measures."


He did not elaborate but appeared to be referring to possible
reprisal attacks against the millions of ethnic Koreans living in
the United States.


Washington has been one of Seoul's close allies since South Korea
came into being in 1948 following the post-war division of the
peninsula.


An unidentified foreign ministry official quoted by Yonhap news
agency said Cho moved to the United States in 1992 and had lived
there ever since.


The official said Seoul hoped the tragedy would not become an
ethnic issue that could raise racial tensions.


Yonhap said there are some 460 students from Korea in both
undergraduate and graduate programmes at Virginia Tech.


One South Korean student was among those injured in Monday's
shooting, the agency reported. He was hospitalised but was
expected to be released soon.

