

Sterling climbed above the psychological barrier of two dollars
Tuesday for the first time since 1992 as data on both sides of
the Atlantic suggested future rate movements will hurt the
greenback.


The British currency benefited from higher-than-expected British
inflation data which raised expectations of an interest rate
rise, while the euro was propelled by a buoyant reading of German
investor confidence.


The dollar was undermined by softer-than-expected core inflation
data for March which prompted renewed speculation that the
Federal Reserve will cut interest rates later this year.


The pound fetched 2.0063 dollars at 2100 GMT after 1.9900 late
Monday in New York.


Global Insight analyst Howard Archer commented: "We believe that
sterling could well remain above two dollars for an extended
period.


"In the near term, the pound is likely to be supported by
expectations that UK interest rates will not only rise from 5.25
percent to 5.50 percent in May, but could also rise further
thereafter."


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign short-term
deposits, thereby increasing demand for the domestic currency and
increasing its value on the foreign exchange market.


In the United States, the key rate is 5.25 percent and expected
to fall, while in the eurozone it is 3.75 percent and expected to
rise. In Japan, it is 0.5 percent.


"Fundamentals continue to shape a stabilizing US economy, and
under normal circumstances, a settling of economic volatility is
encouraging," said John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


"However, with the currencies like the British pound, euro and
Japanese yen looking to benefit from rate hikes in the near
future, the greenback is starting to lose its appeal in the
global market. Today's consumer price index played a pivotal role
in this developing outlook by tempering inflation pressures and
dimming spotty speculation that the Fed may pursue another rate
hike in the future."


The report by the Labor Department showed that US consumer prices
rose 0.6 percent in March as energy costs shot higher.


The consumer price index was below market expectations at a 0.7
percent increase. The core CPI was up a modest 0.1 percent,
suggesting future price increases may be tame, some analysts
said.


"It doesn't mean the Fed can begin cutting interest rates
straight away but it is good news from that point of view," said
Gavin Friend, forex strategist at Commerzbank.


"The Fed has been faced with a shrinking economy and rising
inflation so this goes some way to squaring the circle," he
added.


The euro was trading at 1.3564 dollars from 1.3535 late on Monday
after earlier reaching a high of 1.3595, its highest level since
December 2004.


The dollar fell to 118.90 yen from 119.72.


The euro was strong against the dollar after data showed that
investor confidence in Germany rose to the highest level for 10
months in April as growth of the eurozone's biggest economy
continued to gather momentum.


The ZEW economic research institute's economic expectations
index, based on a poll of 320 analysts and institutional
investors, rose by 10.7 points to plus 16.5 points in April, its
highest level since June 2006, ZEW said in a statement.


The increase also beat expectations: analysts had been pencilling
in a more modest rise to plus 10.0 points this month.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2086 Swiss francs
from 1.2141 late Monday.

