

The son of a victim of Germany's notorious  Red Army Faction
guerrilla group has given his support to a plea for clemency
lodged by one of its jailed leaders, a report said on Tuesday.


The Sueddeutsche Zeitung said German President Horst Koehler
would formally consider the request for clemency from Christian
Klar on Wednesday after it received the backing of the son of
slain federal prosecutor Siegfried Buback.


He became the first victim of a bloody period dubbed the "German
Autumn" when he was shot in his Mercedes car by RAF gunmen on a
motorcycle in the city of Karlsruhe.


Buback's son Michael told the paper he had reliable information
from anonymous sources connected to the now-disbanded group that
Klar was not involved in the 1977 murder of his father.


Klar was arrested in 1982 and sentenced for his role in multiple
murders.


Michael Buback said the information he had received indicated
that Klar was not the murderer and had played no part in planning
the attack.


In a letter to be published in the paper's Wednesday edition, he
writes: "Naturally I must be sceptical about information from
such sources. It could intentionally or unintentionally be false,
but it could also be true."


The RAF, also known as the Baader-Meinhof Gang after its founders
Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof, mounted a violent campaign
against what it considered was the oppressive capitalist state of
West Germany from 1977 to 1982.


It targetted the German elite and the US military based in
Germany and is suspected of killing 34 people. The group
officially disbanded in 1998.


Brigitte Mohnhaupt, who led the RAF with Klar after the group's
original leaders committed suicide in jail, was released from
prison in March after serving 24 years for her role in nine
murders, including Buback's.


Justice authorities said she no longer posed a threat to society.


But Klar's request for occasional day releases from prison was
turned down in February after he called, in a speech read out on
his behalf to a left-wing conference, for the "total defeat of
the capitalists' aims."


Klar's sentence stipulates that he will not be eligible for
parole until 2009, unless he is pardoned first.


Neither Klar nor Mohnhaupt have ever expressed remorse for the
murders.

