

He was 23 years old, a loner with roots half a world away in
South Korea, but nobody knows what inner turmoil led Cho Seung-
Hui to go on a murderous rampage at one of the US's most
venerable universities.


Cho was just another student majoring in English at Virginia Tech
before mowing down 30 people Monday in a classroom building and
taking his own life in the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


Police said Tuesday they suspect he was also behind two other
killings at a campus dormitory just a couple of hours earlier,
bringing the death toll to 33.


Cho was among the 2,000 foreigners from more than 110 countries
attending the 26,000-student university in Blacksburg, Virginia.


The motivations behind his vicious attack were not immediately
known, but some details about his life emerged Tuesday as
authorities tried to piece together a crime that shocked the
Virginia school.


Police said Cho was in his senior year and lived on campus at the
Harper Hall dormitory, which houses 249 residents.


He was a legal US immigrant whose residence was established in
Centreville, Virginia, outside Washington, police said. According
to South Korea's Yonhap news agency, Cho moved to America in
1992.


But police gave little more information about him and university
officials had trouble tracking down details about him.


"He was a loner and we had difficulty finding information about
him," said Larry Hincker, associate vice president for university
relations.


The lone gunman is the most common profile for a mass murderer,
someone who is "isolated, reclusive and antisocial" said Alan
Langlieb, director of workplace psychiatry at Johns Hopkins
University.


"It's not exactly clear what snaps," he said. "Some of it is
premeditated, but a person could wake up that day and decide I'm
going to create social havoc."


Whatever Cho's motivations were, the tragedy has reverberated
around the world, all the way to South Korea, whose government
expressed "indescribable surprise and shock" after Cho was
identified.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon chaired a late-night
emergency meeting of ministry staff after news broke that the
culprit was Cho.


"We convey deep condolences to the victims and their bereaved
families and the (US) people," said Cho Byung-Jae, head of the
South Korean Foreign Ministry's North American affairs bureau.


"We have established safety measures for ethnic Koreans in the US
in case of contingencies and are in close consultations with all
of our diplomatic missions and Korean communities in the US to
implement the measures."


He did not elaborate but appeared to be referring to the
possibility of reprisal attacks against Korean communities in the
United States.


Millions of ethnic Koreans live in the United States, a close
ally since South Korea came into being in 1948 following the
post-war division of the peninsula.


About 460 Koreans study at Virginia Tech undergraduate and
graduate schools, Yonhap said, adding that a South Korean student
was among those injured in Monday's shooting and was expected to
be released from hospital soon.

