

World oil prices showed mixed fortunes on Tuesday amid worries
about the level of gasoline stocks in the United States, the
world's biggest consumer of energy, traders said.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery fell 30
cents to 66.95 dollars per barrel in London electronic deals
after earlier climbing.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 59 cents to 64.20 dollars per barrel in
pit trading before the official open of the US market.


"The bullish tone (for prices) remains intact on continuing
concerns that the US stocks of gasoline will be insufficient to
cover the peak-demand period during the summer driving season,"
Bank of Ireland analyst Paul Harris said.


The US Department of Energy was to release its weekly snapshot of
oil stocks on Wednesday, with the market expecting gasoline, or
petrol, stocks to have dropped again last week. Motor fuel
inventories have already fallen for the past five weeks.


The market is "looking at the overall inventory levels including
the gasoline (petrol) stocks," CFC Seymour analyst Steve Rowles
said on Tuesday.


Dealers are watching gasoline inventories closely before the
peak-demand summer driving season when many Americans take to the
highways for their holidays.


American refineries are presently unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited capacity,
which in part explains a persistent gap between North American
and European oil prices.


US crude oil inventories rose 700,000 barrels to 333.4 million in
the week to April 6, well below market forecasts of a gain of 1.7
million barrels.


Gasoline reserves fell 5.5 million barrels to 199.7 million, the
heaviest weekly decline since August 2003 and larger than market
expectations for a drop of just 1.4 million barrels.


Noting the drop in oil inventories, the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) said on Monday it was
maintaining its forecast for growth of world oil demand in 2007
at 1.5 percent.


The market was also tracking an energy summit being held by South
American presidents that was to discuss topics ranging from
pipelines, refineries and a gas cartel.


The two-day summit beginning on Tuesday on Margarita island is
expected to focus on big-ticket regional projects promoted by
Venezuela, the only Latin American member of OPEC.

