

Joey Crawford, a referee for 31 seasons, was suspended for the
remainder of the National Basketball Association season and
playoffs here Tuesday by league commissioner David Stern.


The punishment stemmed from an incident Sunday between Crawford
and San Antonio's Tim Duncan with 1:04 to play in the third
quarter of the Spurs' 91-86 loss to Dallas.


Crawford ejected Duncan from the game, imposing two technical
fouls in 76 seconds, and after announcing Crawford's suspension,
Stern said he was imposing a 25,000-dollar fine on Duncan.


Crawford has officiated 266 NBA playoff games and 38 NBA Finals
games, in each case the most among active officials. He also is
one five referees to have worked in at least 2,000 NBA regular-
season games.


Crawford, from a family that has had several officials employed
in the NBA and Major League Baseball, will be out indefinitely -
but at least through the NBA Finals - for acting in an
unprofessional manner to Duncan, Stern said.


"Joey Crawford's handling of this situation failed to meet the
standards of professionalism and game management we expect of NBA
referees," Stern said.


"Especially in light of similar prior acts by this official, a
significant suspension is warranted.


"Although Joey is consistently rated as one of our top referees,
he must be held accountable for his actions on the floor, and we
will have further discussions with him following the season to be
sure he understands his responsibilities."


Duncan was laughing while seated on the Spurs bench when whistled
for the second technical foul that saw him ejected. He wore a
stunned expression as he was escorted to the locker room.


"Joey has a personal problem with me and I can't do anything
about that," Duncan said after the game.


"I said three words to him the entire night and the other words
where when he gave me technicals, so obviously he's got a
personal problem with me.


"He looked at me and said, 'Do you want to fight? Do you want to
fight?' I didn't say anything to him anyway. If he wants to
fight, we can fight. I don't have any problem with him, but we
can do it if he wants.


"I have no reason why in the middle of a game he would yell at
me, 'Do you want to fight?'"

