

General Motors is to axe 1,400 jobs at its factory in Antwerp,
Belgium, as part of a shake-up of production for the next
generation of the group's compact Astra model from 2010, GM
Europe said on Tuesday.


In a statement released by GM's German subsidiary Opel here, GM
Europe said that it would stop producing the Astra model in
Antwerp after 2010.


The new generation of Astra models would be built at four
European sites -- Bochum in Germany, Ellesmere Port in Britain,
Trollhattan in Sweden and Gliwice in Poland.


"It is not planned to continue production of GM Europe's compact
class in Antwerp beyond 2010," the statement said.


"There is no talk of closing the plant, but improvements are
nevertheless necessary."


Management would negotiate with the workforce and employee
representatives "about employment in the plant where lower
production volumes will mean that 1,400 few employees are
needed," it said.


GM Europe currently employs 4,500 people at the site.


One possible option being considered would be to build GM
Chevrolet cars at the Belgium plant. But whatever was finally
decided, "we plan to adjust production there to normal demand
development and to reduce it," GM Europe said.


In Brussels, Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt voiced
disappointment at the plans.


Verhofstadt said the federal and regional Flemish governments
were "all the more disappointed on account of the numerous
efforts that were made in recent years ... to make the site one
of the best performing in Europe."


"Even if the authorities cannot prevent such international
restructurings, we are not powerless," he told journalists,
reading out a joint statement from the federal and Flemish
governments.


He said that the Belgian authorities had lobbied GM Europe "to
give a new future to the Antwerp site by transferring (the
production) of new models" to it.


The job cuts threaten to cause a new drama in a sector that is a
major employer in Belgium, where many carmakers have -- or have
had -- production sites even though country has no carmaker of
its own.


They come months after Volkswagen, Europe's biggest carmaker,
announced massive layoffs at a site on the outskirts of Brussels,
although it later made plans to make Audis at the site, saving
some jobs.


The VW cuts, described as a "national catastrophe" by local
politicians, come 10 years after the closure of a Renault plant
in Vilvoorde north of Brussels, which the region has struggled to
recover from ever since.


GM's current Astra, built from 2003 and scheduled to run until
2009, had reached annual sales of 500,000, above the car maker's
target of 450,000.


But sales were expected to fall sharply as the model approaches
the end of its life cycle, making an ajdustment in the headcount
necessary ahead of the launch of the new generation Astra, a
company spokesman said.


And since 10,000 jobs had already been axed at the Bochum plant,
and 1,000 at Ellesmere Port, it was now Antwerp's turn to bear
some of the burden, the GM Europe spokesman said.


The news came after management and workers' representatives met
in Brussels to hold new talks about possible cost-cutting
measures at the US car giant's European subsidiaries.


GM opened talks in March on a new cost-cutting programme at its
European units Saab, Vauxhall and Opel, with overcapacity
reportedly set to rise sharply in the coming years.

