

Distraught family members and friends kept up an anxious vigil
Tuesday desperate for news of loved ones still missing after a US
campus massacre, as others waited by hospital bedsides.


"They first told us that my daughter was in the hospital but when
I went there last night it wasn't her and since then, nothing,"
said Grafton Peterson, of Centreville, Virginia.


He had heard no news from his daughter, 18-year-old Erin, his
only child since Monday's horrific images of gunfire and chaos on
the Virginia Tech campus were broadcast around the country.


"I've been here since 4:00 am and no one has been able to tell me
where she is," he added, choking back his emotion.


His sister, Mary Peterson, broke down in tears as she told of the
family's frantic efforts to find out what had happened to Erin.


"We don't know if she's dead, alive, injured, we just have no
idea," she said. "We've been here all night long."


South Korean student Cho Senug-Hui, 23, on Monday stalked from
classroom to classroom in one of the university's engineering
blocks, mowing down people as he went.


He killed at least 30 people in four classrooms and a stairwell
before turning the gun on himself. In an earlier incident two
people were also killed in a dormitory.


But in their panic, many students lost their ID's and papers were
found strewn around the corridors.


Chief Virginia medical examiner Marcella Fierro said it would
take several days to identify all 32 people shot in two separate
incidents.


Several of the victims were said to be foreign exchange students.


"We will do this quickly and as carefully and as efficiently as
we can so that families can rest assured that we have taken care
of their child," Fierro told reporters.


Thousands of mourners were meanwhile gathering Tuesday for a
commemoration service to be held on the campus, and attended by
US President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura.


The queue for seats had snaked around the corner, with many
dressed in the university's traditional burnt orange and maroon
colors.


Counseling and psychological assistance was also being offered
Tuesday at the university's conference center, where a crisis
unit has been set up.


Hospitals have also set up special centers to help visitors who
have flooded waiting areas in search of news.


"We're trying to limit visitors today because the patients need
to recover. But we're not turning anyone away .. if they have a
name and they have permission from the family, they can come
visit," Scott Hill, spokesman for Montgomery County Hospital,
told reporters.


Nine victims, all students, were still in the hospital, with
three in critical condition, he said. Several of the victims had
been operated on when they first arrived at the hospital on
Monday.


All the patients in the hospital had been identified and reunited
with their families, he added. Three other hospitals in the area
also took in victims.


Red Cross workers meanwhile have distributed pamphlets detailing
how to help children cope with loss and offered soothing words to
those grieving.


"Helping children cope with their loss will be crucial in
enabling them to resume their lives more fully at home and
school," one handout read.

