

General Motors is to axe 1,400 jobs at its factory in Antwerp,
Belgium, as part of a shake-up of production for the next
generation of the group's compact Astra model from 2010, GM
Europe said on Tuesday.


In a statement released by GM's German subsidiary Opel here, GM
Europe said that it would discontinue production of the Astra
model in Antwerp after 2010.


The new generation of Astra models would be built at four
European sites -- Bochum in Germany, Ellesmere Port in Britain,
Trollhattan in Sweden and Gliwice in Poland.


"It is not planned to continue production of GM Europe's compact
class in Antwerp beyond 2010," the statement said.


"There is no talk of closing the plant, but improvements are
nevertheless necessary."


One possible option being considered would be to build GM
Chevrolet cars at the Belgium plant. But what ever was finally
decided, "we plan to adjust production there to normal demand
development and to reduce it," GM Europe said.


Management would negotiate with the workforce and employee
representatives "about employment in the plant where lower
production volumes will mean that 1,400 few employees are
needed," it said.


GM Europe currently employs 4,500 people at its site in Antwerp.


"I know that the announcement is very difficult for our employees
in Antwerp," said GM Europe chief Carl-Peter Forster.


"We will make every effort to find a socially acceptable way of
implementing the job cuts," he said.


The current Astra, built from 2003 and scheduled to run until
2009, had reached annual sales of 500,000, above the car maker's
target of 450,000.


But sales were expected to fall sharply as the model approaches
the end of its life cycle, making an ajdustment in the headcount
necessary ahead of the launch of the new generation Astra, a
company spokesman said.


And since 10,000 jobs had already been axed at the Bochum plant,
and 1,000 at Ellesmere Port, it was now Antwerp's turn to bear
some of the burden, the spokesman said.


The news came after management and workers' representatives met
in Brussels to hold new talks about possible cost-cutting
measures at the US car giant's European subsidiaries.


GM opened talks in March on a new cost-cutting programme at its
European units Saab, Vauxhall and Opel, with overcapacity
reportedly set to rise sharply in the coming years.

