

Gun control surged back onto the US agenda after the deadliest
school shooting in US history, but with few politicians willing
to take up the sensitive issue, chances of major change look
remote.


With an estimated 40 percent of American households owning a gun
and some 200 million weapons in private hands, according to
surveys, challenging the constitutional right to bear arms is a
potentially hugely unpopular move.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Tuesday that while
President George W. Bush would contribute to the inevitable
debate about gun ownership in the wake of Monday's shooting, now
was not the time to discuss the issue.


"We understand that there is going to be and there has been an
ongoing national discussion, conversation, debate about gun
control policy," she told reporters. "We will participate in that
but today is not the day."


Two major advocates of gun control said that while full details
of Monday's shooting were not clear, the tragedy still showed how
much of a problem gun violence posed in American society.


Paul Helmke of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said
that while it was still not clear what motivated South Korean
student Cho Seung-Hui to go on the rampage, it was simply too
easy to get hold of a gun in America.


The mass shooting came almost eight years to the day after two
gunmen ran amok in Columbine High School, killing 13 people and
themselves, and six months after a lone gunman shot dead five
people at an Amish school in Pennsylvania.


"Since these killings, we've done nothing as a country to end gun
violence in our schools and communities," said Helmke. "If
anything, we've made it easier to access powerful weapons."


"It is long overdue for us to take some common-sense actions to
prevent tragedies like this from continuing to occur," he said.


Ladd Everitt of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence said that
while it was not known whether Cho legally owned a gun, the
shooting highlighted how much of a problem gun violence had
become, with a spate of recent shootings.


"We still live in a society where gun violence is an overriding
concern,"    he said. "We've had a series of these high profile,
very violent shootings that have taken a lot of victims.


"We continue to lose more than 30,000 people every year in this
country to gun violence," he said, calling for the introduction
of "sensible" gun laws.


"The illegal gun market in this nation is really fed by a number
of loopholes in existing laws that allow criminals and children
and other prohibited purchasers persistently and easily to get
guns," he told AFP.


More than 30 states had yet to close loopholes allowing convicted
felons to buy weapons at gun fairs, for example, with no
background checks, he said.


"It's loopholes like that really feed the illegal gun market and
which we should be targeting."


The National Rifle Association, a leading US pro-gun group that
cites the right to bear arms enshrined in the constitution,
declined to comment on the shooting but offered its condolences
to the families of the victims.


Newspapers joined the call for tighter restrictions on gun
ownership.


The New York Times called Monday's carnage "another horrifying
reminder that some of the gravest dangers Americans face come
from killers at home armed with guns that are frighteningly easy
to obtain."


"What is needed, urgently, is stronger controls over the lethal
weapons that cause such wasteful carnage and such unbearable
loss."


The New York Daily News called for laws to be tightened, deriding
one of the pro-gun lobby's favorite phrases. "Right, sure, guns
don't kill people, people with guns kill people. We've heard it
already," the paper said in an editorial.


"We do not know if yesterday's crazed shooter had his guns
legally registered to him or not. That's hardly even the point
now.


"This is insanity, and this must stop. We agree, frankly, that if
guns are outlawed, as they say, only outlaws will have guns," it
added.


But the paper was not optimistic that a ban on firearms was
likely at any time in the near future. "There will not soon come
a time when private ownership of firearms is prohibited in this
country. That will not happen."

