

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe on Tuesday accused arch rival
Tony Blair of trying to mount a final push to oust him in a
speech on the eve of the ex- British colony's 27th anniversary of
independence.


Speaking at a party for children, Mugabe said a two-day general
strike which was called by the main union organisation earlier
this month was part of "the offensive of Blair's final push."


"The man (Blair) is about to retire and wants a last push in
Zimbabwe," Mugabe told hundreds of schoolchildren and teachers
drawn from selected schools.


"You saw what happened two or so weeks ago. The manoeuvres he
(Blair) and his allies, the evil-doers who act as his
representatives here, wanted to do in what they say is a last
push to make Zimbabwe a colony again."


Mugabe has launched regular broadsides against the British prime
minister, who is due to stand down in a matter of weeks, ever
since the West imposed sanctions against the Zimbabwean leader
and his coterie in 2002.


The Zimbabwen president, who has ruled the former Rhodesia ever
since independence in 1980, promised to address the concerns of
the country's lowly- paid teachers who are demanding a new rise
less than two months after government increased their salaries.


He called on the teachers to join forces with government to beat
sanctions imposed on Mugabe and members of his inner circle
following 2002 presidential elections which the opposition and
western observers charge were rigged.


"I am suggesting that this is not a time for any loyal citizen to
think of a strike for wages but think of ways and means we can
beat the sanctions and how you and us can resist the offensive of
Blair's final push.


"We will continue looking at the salaries and conditions of
service. Good times will come definitely. Even in bad times we
will continue to look at how our people can live until a more
comfortable time visits us."


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downturn over the past seven
years with world- record inflation surging towards 2,000 percent
and chronic shortages of basic goods like cooking oil and sugar.


The majority of the population including teachers are living
below the poverty threshold.


Teachers are migrating in their thousands while those who remain
resort to what an analyst termed "remote-control teaching,"
moonlighting as smalltime traders during work hours.

