

Former captain Clive Lloyd believes West Indies cricket needs
money to move forward and that technology must be embraced to
help the team who are "scraping the barrel" to remain
competitive.


"What has happened in the World Cup has highlighted the need for
more money and technology," said Lloyd, the manager of the West
Indies team.


The West Indies, hosting the World Cup for the first time since
it started in 1975, are virtally out of contention for a semi-
final place after picking up just two points from their five
Super Eights matches.


They started off well by winning all three preliminary round
matches but failed to keep up the momentum, losing to Australia,
New Zealand, Sri Lanka and South Africa in the second round.


Lloyd, who led the West Indies to their only World Cup triumphs
in 1975 and 1979, said current players lack experience.


"Certainly there was a vast difference between this team and in
the teams I led. We had some very good professionals, disciplined
guys and they were aided by playing county cricket, and that gave
them the professional edge," said Lloyd.


"These guys don't have the experience but having said that I
believe when you look at some other countries they are well ahead
of us in every perspective and we are scraping the barrel here.
Once we use technology and other facilities we can become a good
side."


Lloyd blamed not sticking to disciplines in the Super Eights as
the major reason for the poor showing.


"There was a combination of things why we lost our way. We didn't
approach the second part as well as we should have, we didn't get
all our disciplines right.&gt; Had we done that we could have
been a match for anybody."


West Indies play their last two matches against Bangladesh on
Thursday and then against England on Saturday.


Lloyd said criticism of team's poor performance was inevitable.


"There is criticism no matter in which country you are. Once you
don't do as well as people expect, you get the criticism. People
expected us to do well because we have done well in the recent
past and our past has been glorious," said Lloyd of the West
Indies who won the Champions Trophy in 2004.


West Indies also finished runners-up in the Champions Trophy in
India last year.


"When you lose, all sorts of things come up. If we had qualified
then no such things would have come up. These are part and parcel
of West Indies cricket.


"We now must look at the positives and try and work on those, and
try and see where we need to go from here. The England tour is
coming up which is always a tough but I hope the players will
learn from the experience."


The West Indies play four Tests and three one-day internationals
on their England tour which starts in the second week of May.

