

US Secretary of Defence Robert Gates on Tuesday downplayed the
exit of radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's anti-American
faction from Iraq's coalition government.


Sadr pulled his six ministers out of the coalition supporting
Prime Minister Nuri Al-Maliki on Monday, demanding a rapid
withdrawal of US troops from Iraq.


"There is an opportunity to turn what might seem like a negative
potential into a positive development," said Gates, speaking
after a meeting with Jordan's King Abdullah II.


"The impact these resignations have will depend in some measure
on who is selected to replace those ministers . . . and whether
those vacancies are used in a way that could further advance the
reconciliation process," he said.


"Anything that can be done that advances the reconciliation
process, perhaps including broadening representation in the
cabinet, would probably be a positive thing."


Gates added: "But that is a judgement that the Iraqi leadership
is going to have to make. It's really their business."


The defence secretary said that he did not believe that the
cleric and his followers were "walking away" from the political
process.


However he was not sure what impact Sadr's move would have on his
Mahdi Army militia.


"I think we'll just have to wait and see. I'm not sure we fully
appreciate the meaning of the action that was taken, and how
significant it is," said Gates.


In 2004 Sadr's militia launched two uprisings against US forces.


While Sadr joined the coalition that helped put Maliki in power,
US officials say that members of his Iranian-supported militia
have infiltrated Iraq's security forces and are responsible for
killing Sunni Arabs and fueling the country's sectarian violence.


In a December quarterly report the Pentagon branded the Mahdi
Army the single biggest threat to Iraqi stability, ahead of the
Iraqi branch of Al-Qaeda.


Gates, a former head of the CIA, said that during his days as a
spymaster unknown information was often divided into two
categories: secrets and mysteries.


"His motives right now are a mystery," said Gates, referring to
Sadr.


The Shiite hardliner -- unseen in public since October -- was
angered when massive street protests last week failed to persuade
the Maliki goverment to set a timeline for US forces to go home.


Sadr's bloc is the largest single political group in Maliki's
fragmenting coalition, but the prime minister will be able to
cling to power if he keeps the support of smaller Shiite and
Kurdish groups.


Maliki welcomed Sadr's exit, saying it will help speed up his
much-awaited cabinet reshuffle that would bring in "efficient
ministers."


In Washington, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino on Monday also
downplayed the move. "Coalitions in those types of parliamentary
democracies can come and go," she said.

