

He was a 23-year-old loner, with roots half a world away in South
Korea, who hated "rich kids" and will now go down in US history
as a notorious killer.


Cho Seung-Hui moved to the United States when he was just eight,
but 15 years later his name is set to be permanently etched on
the tragic roll call of US school and campus killings.


"You caused me to do this," he wrote in the several-page-long
note that he left in his dorm room, ABC News reported, before
going on a murderous rampage killing at least 30 people.


The note railed against "rich kids," "debauchery" and "deceitful
charlatans" on campus, the Chicago Tribune reported.


But it shed little light on the motives behind his killing spree
during which he stalked classrooms, firing on students and
professors, before turning his gun on himself. By midday on
Monday, 33 people lay dead on the campus.


Authorities were on Tuesday trying to piece together a crime that
sent shockwaves across America and the world.


Cho also died with the words "Ismail Ax" in red ink on the inside
of one of his arms, the Chicago Tribune reported, citing
unidentified sources.


Police suspect Cho, who was studying English at Virginia Tech,
first killed two people at a campus dormitory.


Then, according to media reports, he leisurely returned to his
own dorm to write a rambling invective, re-arm and then storm the
classroom building.


Cho was among the 2,000 foreigners from more than 110 countries
attending the 26,000-student university in Blacksburg, Virginia.


Police said Cho was in his senior year and lived on campus at the
Harper Hall dormitory, which houses 249 residents.


Cho had shown recent signs of violent, aberrant behavior,
including setting a fire in a dorm room and allegedly stalking
some women, the Chicago Tribune said, citing an unnamed
investigative source.


Investigators believe Cho at some point had been taking
medication for depression, the daily said.


He was a legal US immigrant whose residence was established in
Centreville, Virginia, outside Washington, police said. According
to US and South Korean media, Cho moved to America in 1992.


The Tribune said his family runs a dry cleaning business while
his sister graduated from the elite Princeton University.


Cho "was very quiet, always by himself," neighbor Abdul Shash was
quoted as saying in the Tribune. He spent a lot of his free time
playing basketball, and would not respond if someone greeted him,
Shash said.


Police released little more official information about Cho and
university officials had trouble tracking down details about him.


"He was a loner," said Larry Hincker, associate vice president
for university relations.


The lone gunman is the most common profile for a mass murderer,
someone who is "isolated, reclusive and antisocial" said Alan
Langlieb, director of workplace psychiatry at Johns Hopkins
University.


"It's not exactly clear what snaps," he said. "Some of it is
premeditated, but a person could wake up that day and decide I'm
going to create social havoc."


Whatever Cho's motivations were, the tragedy has reverberated
around the world, all the way to South Korea, whose government
expressed "indescribable surprise and shock" after Cho was
identified.


"We convey deep condolences to the victims and their bereaved
families and the (US) people," said Cho Byung-Jae, head of the
South Korean Foreign Ministry's North American affairs bureau.


"We have established safety measures for ethnic Koreans in the US
in case of contingencies and are in close consultations with all
of our diplomatic missions and Korean communities in the US to
implement the measures."


He did not elaborate but appeared to be referring to the
possibility of reprisal attacks against Korean communities in the
United States.

