

The Olympic Council of Asia has green-lighted cricket's inclusion
in the 2010 Asian Games, which will feature more sports than ever
before.


The decision to approve a proposal to include cricket in
Guangzhou was taken at the OCA congress here, with the ball now
in the Asian Cricket Council's court to decide on a format and
other necessary details.


If the ACC agree to push ahead, heavyweight nations such as
India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are expected to field
their top teams.


"Cricket will be played in 2010, but bodybuilding will be cut
from the schedule," OCA chief Sheikh Ahmad Al-Fahad Al-Sabah told
AFP.


"India and Pakistan were the drivers. We are discussing with them
how we can arrange it. Pakistan and India will come with their
best teams because it will be a big competition."


The Guangzhou games will feature 42 sports compared to 39 at the
last Asiad in Doha in December.


There had been a push within OCA member nations to cut the number
of sports, but plans to dump cue sports and 10-pin bowling, among
others, were this week shelved. Instead, more disciplines will be
included.


"Although they tried to remove some things like cue sports and
bowling, the organisers this week asked for them to be brought
back, so Guangzhou will host 42 sports," said the Sheikh, without
saying what other events were being considered.


By comparison, the Olympic Games hosts just 28 events, with
sports such as kabaddi, sepaktakraw, chess and wushu unique to
the Asian Games.


Cricket was last seen at a major multi-sport event in the 1998
Commonwealth Games in Kuala Lumpur, but was dropped for the next
two editions in England and Australia, two major cricketing
powers.


The sport made its one and only appearance at the Olympics in
Paris in 1900, where in a two-day match Great Britain --
represented by touring team Devon and Somerset Wanderers -- beat
France, whose team mainly consisted of members of the British
Embassy.


Its expected inclusion at Guangzhou follows an announcement late
last year that the 2008 South Asian Games in Bangladesh will
feature cricket for the first time.

