

Cesc Fabregas effectively guaranteed Arsenal a Champions League
place with a spectacular goal that put his side on course for a
3-1 win over Manchester City on Tuesday.


Fabregas broke City's spirited resistance late in the second half
at the Emirates Stadium after DaMarcus Beasley had cancelled out
Tomas Rosicky's opener for the Gunners.


Julio Baptista struck in the final minutes to ensure Arsene
Wenger's side went third in the Premiership, and more
importantly, opened up an eight-point lead over fifth-placed
Everton.


After a recent four-match winless run threatened to derail their
European ambitions, Arsenal are now odds-on to return for another
season in the Champions League, thanks mainly to the heroics of
Fabregas.


The Spain midfielder had gone 47 games without a goal until he
hit the winner against Bolton on Saturday but, if his effort here
is anything to go by, he finally seems to be getting a taste for
goal-scoring at just the right time.


After beating Bolton, Wenger's side knew a win against City would
all but guarantee a top four finish and they were quickly into
their stride.


Since Patrick Vieira's departure two years ago, Wenger's side
have lacked an imposing physical presence in midfield. But Abou
Diaby shows signs of filling the void and the French midfielder
underlined his potential with a key role as Arsenal broke the
deadlock in the 12th minute.


Diaby robbed Beasley with a crunching tackle before surging
forward. He quickly slipped a pass to Emmanuel Eboue and the
right-back's curling cross was met by Rosicky with a close range
half-volley that flashed past Andreas Isaksson.


Arsenal had total control and were content to zip the ball about
with their usual range of flicks and feints embellishing, and
occasionally disrupting, their attacking momentum.


It took a good stop from Isaksson to deny Fabregas as he tried
his luck from 25 yards.


City struggled to get out of their own half for long periods, but
they were gifted an equaliser in the 41st minute.


Jens Lehmann scuffed a clearance to Joey Barton and he found
Michael Johnson. The young City midfielder played an astute pass
through to Beasley, who beat the offside trap and slipped his
shot into the far corner of Lehmann's goal.


The goal was typcial of Arsenal's self-destructive streak and
suddenly it was Stuart Pearce's team who looked more dangerous,
with Lehmann having to turn away a powerful drive from Barton.


Lehmann has been holding out for a new two-year contract but the
German's erratic display was hardly a convincing arguement as he
spilled a simple catch, then nearly gave away possession again
with poor distribution early in the second half.


City were growing in confidence and Barton found space to test
Lehmann with a low drive.


But Arsenal responded and Emmanuel Adebayor was just unable to
squeeze his shot past Isaksson from a tight angle. Then Alexander
Hleb shot wide from the edge of the area before Adebayor's
goalbound shot hit Sylvain Distin.


Isaksson sprawled low to his left to smother Adebayor's header
from Hleb's cross as Arsenal stepped up their pressure.


The breakthrough their dominance deserved finally arrived in the
72nd minute.


Fabregas started the move with a pass to Rosicky and, when Nedum
Onuoha's clearance rebounded to the Spaniard, he finished it in
style with a fierce 25-yard strike that gave Isaksson no chance.


Arsenal scented a chance to put the result beyond doubt and
grabbed a third in the 79th minute. Hleb cut in from the right
and fed Baptista, who easily beat Isaksson with a low first-time
shot.

