

The government of the oil-rich United Arab Emirates unveiled on
Tuesday a stategy aimed at sustaining economic growth while
trying to remedy the demographic imbalance in a country where
natives make up just one fifth of the population.


The strategy features developing a "comprehensive policy" that
would remedy the imbalance in the population structure and reduce
illegal and marginal labourers, said Vice President and Prime
Minister Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashed al-Maktoum, citing mainly the
drive to Emiratise jobs.


Sheikh Mohammad, who is also ruler of the regional business and
tourism hub of Dubai, was speaking in the presence of fellow
rulers of the other emirates making up the seven-member UAE
federation.


But he said that education, the lynchpin of efforts to replace
expatriates by nationals in the workplace, had not given the
desired outcome despite "huge spending" on that sector, and he
urged professionals to pursue "radical" solutions.


Sheikh Mohammad said that while the UAE's Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) had jumped from 261 billion dirhams (71 billion dollars) in
2002 to 599 billion dirhams (163 billion dollars) in 2006, the
greatest responsibility lies in graduating qualified nationals to
compete for opportunities in the job market.


He said domestic helpers make up a massive 10 percent of foreign
workers, with some families outnumbered by their servants.


There are also some 300,000 foreigners working illegally in the
Gulf country and a large proportion of foreign workers involved
in "marginal" activities, he said.


The UAE had a population of 4.1 million at the end of 2005,
compared with 2.4 million 10 years earlier. Emiratis, numbering
some 825,000, accounted for just 21.9 percent of the total
population.


Sheikh Mohammad, whose country has been criticised by
international human rights groups for the poor working conditions
of foreign labourers, said his government planned to organise the
labour market, set criteria for the labourers' working and living
conditions and increase checks to ensure that laws are
implemented and the rights of all parties preserved.

