

Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told Turkish leaders
here Tuesday of his country's reservations about an upcoming
international conference on Iraq, officials said.


Mottaki told his Turkish counterpart Abdullah Gul that Tehran was
unhappy that May's meeting in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, will not be
preceded by a separate gathering of Iraq's neighbours.


He was also displeased that regional countries were not consulted
about the venue, a Turkish diplomat told AFP.


The conference will bring together the foreign ministers of
countries bordering Iraq and world powers, including the United
States.


It will follow last month's lower-level meeting in Baghdad, which
was initiated by Iraq's neighbours.


Earlier this month, Mottaki signalled reluctance to participate
in the Egypt conference, saying it should take place in Baghdad
and comprise only Iraq's neighbours.


He ruled out any meeting with US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice, whose country accuses Iran, along with Syria, of fuelling
the insurgency in Iraq.


Iranian officials have also said that their country is unlikely
to attend the conference as long as the US refuses to release
five Iranians arrested in Iraq in January.


Iran's apparent reluctance could be also linked to bumpy
relations with Egypt: Tehran severed bilateral diplomatic ties
with Cairo in 1979 over former Egyptian president Anwar Sadat's
decision to make peace with Israel.


The Turkish diplomat said there was also "resentment" in Ankara
over the Iraqi government's failure to consult regional countries
when choosing Egypt as the venue; Turkey wanted to host the
meeting in Istanbul.


"But wherever it takes place, Turkey will participate," he said,
adding that it is not yet known who will represent Turkey.


Gul's attendence is uncertain because the conference, scheduled
for May 3-4, may coincide with Turkey's presidential elections,
whose timetable is yet to be determined.


Mottaki is scheduled to meet Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan before leaving Ankara later Tuesday.


He plans to visit other regional countries to discuss the same
issue, the diplomat said.

