

Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez  revealed Tuesday that he turned
down a massive offer to move to Real Madrid.


The Spanish giants reportedly wanted Benitez before they turned
their attentions to Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho.


"I said no to Real when they offered me more money than I get
here, even though there maybe were greater expectations," said
Benitez.


The Spaniard explained that he wanted to stay at Anfield to help
the club develop under new American owners Tom Hicks and George
Gillett.


"It is so positive for the future. And I could not ignore the
noise and support I received from the supporters last week
against Eindhoven, it was tremendous and moving.


"Madrid may be my town, but I am happy here and pleased with
everything. We want to stay because of the new ideas and the new
owners are very exciting.


"It was not a difficult decision. I have an objective here, I
explained that when I spoke to the new owners and they told me
they would be supportive.


"It is clear that Madrid was an opportunity but I said 'no' -
because I have a lot of confidence in the future here and I
believe we can win more trophies and there are a lot of positive
things in the future.


"My family are happy, I am happy and we feel the future of the
club will be brilliant."


It had been suggested by new joint-owner Hicks that Benitez
turned his back on Madrid because his wife told him to - but
Benitez insisted the decision was his own.


"I do not like to talk about my family, but they are really happy
here at Liverpool and I am prepared to have my daughter with a
Scouse accent, even though it is sometimes a problem for me!


"I want to make it clear that I said no to a good offer. That is
because we are happy, it is not a question of money.


"This is a project, it is my club, my team, my players and the
fans are always behind us. I am really happy here for all these
things together."


Benitez also made it clear he wants all talk of new player
contracts to stop ahead of the first leg of the European double-
header against Chelsea.


Liverpool opened talks for new deals for Steven Gerrard, Jamie
Carragher, Xabi Alonso, Jose Reina and Luis Garcia a couple of
weeks ago.


Benitez confirmed all discussions are going well but explained:
"I do not want to talk any more about the contract discussions.


"I wanted us to show them I had confidence in them and I would
like to see all of them here in the future - the people in charge
of the club agree.


"If we have an agreement okay, if we do not have an agreement we
have shown them that we are interested in their futures.


"But now I want to focus on football and the Champions League."

