

Dutch bank ABN Amro said Tuesday it had extended its exclusive
takeover talks with British group Barclays until Friday, but had
invited rival bidders to talks in Amsterdam next week.


The move seemed designed to put pressure on Barclays to reach an
agreement in the next few days after several rival banks
expressed an interest in buying the Dutch lender at the weekend.


ABN Amro said it had invited The Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's
Banco Santander and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis to talks early
next week "to seek clarification of their intentions and
interests."


Exclusive takeover talks with Barclays were extended until
midnight Friday, but ABN stressed that "there can be no certainty
that they will lead to a transaction."


Analysts had speculated earlier on Tuesday that ABN Amro was
putting pressure on Barclays to pay more than 35 euros per share
for the banking group.


Many investors believe 35 euros is close to the maximum that
Barclays can afford to pay, valuing ABN Amro at more than 68
billion euros (92 billion dollars), dealers said.


Trader Rik Zwaneveld at Dutch broker AFS confirmed he had heard
rumours that ABN Amro was pressing Barclays for a higher price.


Another London-based dealer added: "It wouldn't be surprising if
they're asking for that much."


He added: "Surely they need to if they have any chance of
placating shareholders."


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with the other groups
interested in buying the lender.


Analysts believe that The Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander
and Fortis could afford to pay more than Barclays with a joint
bid, possibly up to 42 euros per share.


The three banks, which would be able to cut more costs than
Barclays, would then divide up ABN assets between themselves.


However, a takeover by the three banks could complicate the
transaction for ABN Amro shareholders and could lead to higher
costs in terms of tax bills and capital requirements, analysts
say.


TCI, which had initially advocated a break up of the ABN Amro
group, had threatened to take legal action if ABN management did
not talk to potential buyers other than Barclays.


Shares in ABN Amro closed at 36.40 euros on the Amsterdam stock
exchange on Tuesday, a new record high.


The Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander and Fortis declared
their common interest in takeover talks with ABN Amro on Sunday.


On March 20, Barclays and ABN Amro had outlined specific plans
for a merger, including that the combined group would have its
main stock market listing in London, with headquarters and a
secondary listing in Amsterdam.


Barclays is the third-biggest bank in Britain with interests also
in Europe, Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.


ABN Amro has also expanded into emerging markets in Asia and has
interests in Canada, Italy, Mexico and the United States. It has
4,500 branches in 53 countries.


The combined enterprise would have 47 million clients and employ
220,000 people in 50 countries.

