

A decision by US group AT&T to withdraw a bid for a third of
the Telecom Italia holding company is relighting controversy over
charges that the Italian state protects Italian businesses.


"They chased them off, that's the Italian market," Marco
Tronchetti Provera, the chief of Pirelli and Telecom Italia's
main shareholder said in an interview with Il Sole 24 Ore, in a
criticism of the centre-left government of Romano Prodi.


The price of shares in Telecom Italia and in its the main
shareholder Pirelli, fell sharply in trading on Tuesday after
AT&T said late on Monday it had withdrawn an offer for a
third of Olimpia, the holding company behind Telecom Italia.


Pirelli said that AT&T had withdrawn from buying a third of
the holding company owing to regulatory problems.


In particular AT&T has been concerned about government plans
to make Italy's fixed line network open to allcomers, which would
mean it losing a key asset.


Olimpia is the holding company behind Telecom Italia, and the
price of shares in the telecommunications operator fell by 1.89
percent to 2.34 euros in afternoon trade. Shares in Pirelli fell
by 2.05 percent to 0.88 euros.


"Whatever the epilogue is, this affair is already a scandal: they
wanted to change the rules in the middle of the game. That was
already the case with the abortive merger of (motorway operator)
Autostrade," Bruno Tabacci of the centrist UDC party said.


Earlier this year the European Commission ruled that Italy had
broken EU law by blocking a proposed merger between Italian
Autostrade and Abertis of Spain.


The deal was finally abandoned by the companies in December after
Italian motorway regulator ANAS refused to approve it and the
Italian government announced its intention to review existing
motorway, or highway, concessions.


There has also been high-profile controversy over charges that
the state, and the bank of Italy, have sought to shield a
consolidation of Italian banks from big incursions by foreign
banks.


In the case of Telecom Italia, Mexican company America Movil,
which was also negotiating to buy 33 percent of Olimpia,
continued to look at ways of possibly investing in the holding
company, Pirelli said.


But it too is concerned about the fate of Italy's fixed line
network.


The withdrawal by AT&T has relit speculation that a group of
Italian investors might make an offer.


"The game will still be long. I think that other protagonists
will still intervene. The withdrawal by AT&T is neither
positive nor negative, it is only one act in a long play, or a
tragedy or film," Prodi said.


An editorial writer on the newspaper Corriere della Sera, Sergio
Romano, commented: "The big companies have to remain Italian
because between Italians there is sooner or later an accord. With
others it's more difficult."


Telecom Italia was privatised in 1997 and was taken over by a
group of businessmen in the north of Italy who sold their
controlling share to Pirelli chief Tronchetti Provera in 2001.


Provera has been seeking to sell the share since mid-2006 to
bring an end to what has been a costly adventure, which is
estimated to have cost his group three billion euros (4.08
billion dollars).


He failed in attempts to sell the stake to Australian media
magnate Rupert Murdoch following a row with Prodi. Provera
accused Prodi of interfering in the affairs of his company.


Spanish telecommunications company Telefonica then dropped its
own plans to take a share in the group owing to a refusal by then
Telecom Italia chief, Guido Rossi, to strike an exclusive
partnership with the Spanish operator.

