

The United States wants the international community to act
quickly to help the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo achieve
independence, a senior US official said Tuesday.


"We must now act quickly in the next weeks and months to finish
the job by helping to lead Kosovo to independence," Nicholas
Burns, the number three official at the US State Department, told
a US Congress panel.


The UN Security Council is to debate in the coming weeks an
independence proposal for the southern Serbian province, unveiled
by UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari late last month.


The United States "fully supports" Ahtisaari's plan, Burns told
the House Foreign Affairs Committee in comments which drew a
quick rebuke from Serbia.


"In particular, we believe that supervised independence for
Kosovo is now the only way forward," said Burns, the under
secretary for political affairs.


The Security Council agreed last week to send a fact-finding
mission to Kosovo, where the ethnic Albanian majority demands
independence, and the Serbian capital Belgrade ahead of the
debate on Ahtisaari's plan.


Russia, one of the council's five veto-wielding members and an
ally of Serbia, has objected to Ahtisaari's independence proposal
and said it will not support a solution which does not have the
backing of both sides.


Serbia is adamantly opposed to independence for a province it
regards as the cradle of its civilization. Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov is due to visit Belgrade for talks with
Serbian leaders on Wednesday.


The Ahtisaari plan, which has been endorsed by Kosovo Albanians,
the European Union and the United States, is to be debated
probably next month by the Security Council, which must decide
Kosovo's future status.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown by Serbian
forces against armed ethnic Albanian separatists and their
civilian supporters.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict. Since the international
intervention, thousands of Serbs have been forced out in the face
of ethnic Albanian reprisals.


Serbia responded sharply to Burns's statements, warning any
unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence would be "brutal
violation of UN norms".


"The Serbian government is giving a timely warning that Belgrade
will reject any recognition of Kosovo's independence as invalid
since it will be nothing but direct interference in Serbia's
internal affairs," the government said.


Serbia "once again gives a clear warning that the UN Security
Council Resolution 1244 explicitly establishes and confirms the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia in Kosovo," it
said in a statement.


"Any recognition of the independence of Kosovo will be in brutal
violation of UN norms, the UN Charter and the valid Resolution
1244," it added, referring to the resolution which set up the
international administration in Kosovo.


It was the unilateral recognition of Croatia and Bosnia by some
Western countries in the early 1990s, against Serbia's wishes,
which helped trigger the brutal wars that tore apart the Yugoslav
federation.


Those wars claimed well over 200,000 lives.

