

Anger and grief gripped the campus of Virginia Tech University on
Tuesday as police identified the gunman behind the deadliest
school shooting in US history as a South Korean student "loner."


Monday's rampage at the university in southwestern Virginia,
which left more than 30 people dead, was carried out by Cho
Seung-Hui, 23, an English major at Virginia Tech, police said.


The Chicago Tribune newspaper and ABC News reported that Cho had
left behind a note in his dormitory in which he railed against
"rich kids."


"You caused me to do this," he wrote in the several-page-long
note that railed against "debauchery" and "deceitful charlatans."


Harrowing accounts of bravery and survival emerged as thousands
of students, many wearing the orange-and-maroon colors of the
school, gathered on campus for a memorial service to be attended
by President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura.


Distraught family members and friends kept up a vigil for news of
loved ones still missing after the massacre. Chief Virginia
medical examiner Marcella Fierro said it would take several days
to identify the victims.


Two people were shot dead in an initial attack in a campus
dormitory on Monday around 7:15 am. Another 30 were killed in
Norris Hall, an engineering building, two-and-a-half hours later.
Up to 30 others were wounded.


Steve Flaherty, superintendent of state police, told reporters
Cho was in his senior year at Virginia Tech, was from
Centreville, Virginia, and had been living in a campus dormitory.
He was a resident alien in the United States.


No motive was given for the rampage.


Larry Hincker, associate vice president for university relations,
said officials had difficulty obtaining information about the
gunman. "He was a loner," he said.


Cho had shown recent signs of "violent, aberrant behavior,"
including stalking women and setting a fire in a dorm room, the
newspaper reported.


Cho shot himself in the head as police closed in on Norris Hall,
where he had methodically gunned down dozens of students and
faculty members after chaining the doors of the building from the
inside.


Flaherty said a 9mm handgun and a .22 caliber handgun had been
recovered from Norris Hall and ballistics tests indicated one of
the weapons was used in both shootings.


"It certainly is reasonable for us to assume that Cho was the
shooter in both places, but we don't have the evidence to take us
there at this particular point in time," Flaherty said.


As police pursued their investigation into the rampage, the
campus of this university of 26,000 students in southwestern
Virginia prepared to welcome President Bush for a memorial
ceremony.


Counseling was being offered Tuesday at the university's
conference center, where a crisis unit has been set up. The White
House ordered flags on US government buildings to be flown at
half-mast.


"Our nation grieves with those who have lost loved ones at
Virginia Tech.  We hold the victims in our hearts. We lift them
up in our prayers, and we ask a loving God to comfort those who
are suffering," Bush said in a proclamation.


Amid the shock and horror, some students and families criticized
college officials who failed to lock down the campus or alert
students when gunfire first broke out.


"If someone has come into a campus and murdered two students in a
dorm there should be a mass filing informing students and staff
of what is going on immediately," said Lorraine Watkins, who
drove to Blacksburg with her husband, Jeff, to see their 19-year-
old daughter Lauren.


The head of public safety for Virginia, John Marshall, defended
university authorities on Tuesday telling a press conference the
right decisions had been made.


"(University authorities) made the right decisions based on the
best information that they had available at the time," Marshall
said.


Police said bodies were found in four classrooms and a stairwell
in Norris Hall.


Student Erin Sheehan survived along with a handful of classmates
in a 20-plus member German class. Students held the door shut
against the gunman after he barged in twice and fired repeatedly,
she said.


"He seemed very thorough about it, getting almost everyone down.
I was trying to act dead," she said.


The shooting immediately renewed concern over school security and
access to guns that was rekindled last year by a rash of
shootings. The state of Virginia has some of the weakest gun
licensing requirements in the country.


The mass shooting came almost eight years to the day after two
students ran amok in Columbine High School, killing 13 people and
themselves, and six months after a lone gunman shot dead five
people at an Amish school in Pennsylvania.


As world leaders offered their condolences, the South Korean
government expressed "indescribable surprise and shock" after the
gunman was identified as a South Korean.

