

Ukraine's President Viktor Yushchenko pledged Tuesday to find a
democratic solution to his country's political crisis and ruled
out the use of force to resolve it.


"We are determined to find a democratic resolution to the
parliamentary crisis in Ukraine," he told reporters in Brussels,
after talks with European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso.


"We've never been saying and never been crudely speaking about
any option of using force to resolve the situation," he said.


As he spoke, Ukraine's highest court was stepping into the crisis
pitting the president against his prime minister in a power
struggle over new elections.


The constitutional court is to deliberate Yushchenko's decision
two weeks ago to dissolve parliament, which Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych claims is illegal.


Yushchenko said there was no military presence in Kiev, and he
addressed himself "to those who are trying to bring in people
from the regions," urging them not to do so.


The hero of the 2004 "Orange Revolution" in Ukraine, later spoke
of 20,000 people being brought into the capital to take part in
"false demonstrations" and children paid two dollars a day to
hold up flags at protests.


"Nobody is going to create a pseudo-Maidan, it is impossible to
do for money," he said, referring to the square which became the
focus of the 2004 uprising.


Since Yushchenko ordered the dissolution of parliament thousands
of protesters take to the square almost daily, this time in
opposition to him.


He accused the pro-government coalition in parliament of
"political corruption" by wooing MPs from other factions to its
side.


"The problem is that in forming the coalition in parliament they
applied unconstitutional mechanisms," he said. This had led to an
effective overturning of last year's elections and "the
usurpation of power".


Barroso said that he was encouraged to hear Yushchenko rule out a
military solution to the crisis.


"President Yushchenko explicitly informed me that all the efforts
now are clearly at the political level," he said. "We hope that
this political crisis is solved according to the rules of
democracy."


Later, following a meeting with Europan Parliament President
Hans-Gert Poettering, Yushchenko urged Europe to stay out of the
dispute.


While Poettering proposed EU mediation in the crisis, the
Ukrainian leader diplomatically declined the offer.


"It is very important for our friends in Europe to have enough
patience to allow the Ukrainian sides to resolve this situation,
because the answer to the problem is in Ukraine," he told another
joint press conference.


Yushchenko has pushed hard for full integration with the West
since gaining power in 2005, including membership in the NATO
military alliance. Yanukovych has instead favoured traditional
ties with Moscow.


While Yushchenko was pleading his case in Brussels, Yanukovych
was doing the same in Strasbourg, holding a joint press
conference with the president of the Parliamentary Assembly of
the Council of Europe (PACE) Rene van der Linden.


The EU has been Ukraine's biggest financial supporter since it
achieved independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.


Last month the EU's executive arm announced that it would almost
double its financial aid to Ukraine over the next four years to
help Kiev undertake EU- oriented reform.

