

The United States presented "new ideas" here Tuesday for
cooperation with Russia on missile defense systems, a senior US
official said.


"We brought with us some new ideas for cooperation and made it
clear that we were open to cooperation with Russia across a broad
range of missile defense activities," US Assistant Secretary of
State John Rood told AFP in a telephone interview after talks
with Russian diplomatic and military officials.


Rood declined to discuss specifics of the US ideas, but said they
included US- Russian cooperation in research and development
projects, activities involving the armed forces of the two
countries "and other activities related to exploration of new
missile defense technology."


"There have been a number of ideas that we have discussed," Rood
said following meetings with a Russian delegation led by Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Kislyak.


The United States is pushing forward with plans to deploy
elements of a missile defense system in eastern Europe, a plan
that Russia has said it regards as a threat that it would
counter, should its security interests be ignored.


The talks in Moscow were held two days ahead of planned
consultations in Brussels on Thursday among members of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and between NATO and Russia
on the US missile defense plans.


Rood said US President George W. Bush and Russian President
Vladimir Putin discussed ways to improve cooperation in this area
late last month and said his visit to Moscow was a follow up to
that discussion.


"It's clearly an area where we need further conversation between
our two governments and we'll see whether our Russian colleagues
-- how they respond over time to the ideas that we proposed,"
Rood said.


The United States has come under criticism, including from some
NATO allies, for allegedly failing to address Russia's stated
worries about the new missile system, though Washington says it
has been discussing the plan with Moscow for years.


Rood declined to say whether more detail on the new US proposals
would be made public during the talks in Brussels on Thursday.


But he said the United States was seeking to invigorate a
"constructive dialogue" with Russia on a bilateral basis and
would also be underlining its support for NATO "to have
cooperation with Russia."

