

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett on Tuesday opened a
ground-breaking debate on climate change in the UN Security
Council, stressing the need for a shared understanding of the
linkage between energy, climate and security.


The debate, chaired by Britain in its capacity as president of
the 15-member council for April, marked the first time global
warming is taken up by a body tasked with preserving
international peace and security.


Responding to reservations expressed by some council members
about whether the council was the appropriate forum to deal with
the burning issue, Beckett emphasized the security dimension of
climate change.


"This is a ground-breaking day. For the first time we will debate
climate change as a matter of international peace and security,"
Beckett told reporters ahead of the debate.


She hailed the fact that a record 52 countries agreed to
participate in the debate.


"An unstable climate will exacerbate some of the core drivers of
conflict -- such as migratory pressures and competition for
resources," Beckett warned.


"The recent Stern Report speaks of a potential economic
disruption on the scale of the two World Wars and the Great
Depression," she added. "That alone will inevitably have an
impact on all of our security -- developed and developing
countries alike."


In a landmark report commissioned by the London government,
British economist and climate change guru Nicolas Stern warned
last year that climate change could bring economic disaster on
the scale of the world wars and the 1930s Great Depression unless
urgent action was taken.


Beckett cited the need for the world to recognize that "there is
a security imperative, as well as economic, developmental and
environmental ones, to tackling climate change" and "to begin to
build a shared understanding of the relationship between energy,
climate and security."


She made it clear the purpose of the debate was not "to pre-empt
the authority" of institutions and processes where action is
being decided such as the General Assembly, subsidiary bodies of
UN agencies and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC), the treaty produced at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de
Janeiro.


She said she hoped the debate would do for global warming what a
similar debate did for AIDS in 2000.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon also told the council that "issues of energy
an climate change have implications for peace and security."


As examples, he said that scarce resources such as water and food
could help turn peaceful competition into violence while
migrations driven by climate change could deepen tensions and
conflict.


"Limited or threatened access to energy is already known to be a
powerful driver of conflict," he added, urging multilateral
action to prevent such dire scenarios.


But there were also dissenting voices.


Speaking on behalf of Third World countries grouped in the Group
of 77 and China, Pakistan's UN delegate Farukh Amil said the
appropriate forum to deal with the risks associated with global
warming was the UNFCCC and said it was "inappropriate" to
consider the issue of energy in the council.


"The ever-increasing encroachment by the Security Council on the
roles and responsibilities of other principal organs of the UN
represents a distortion of the principles and purposes of the UN
Charter," he added.


South Africa's UN Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo made a similar
point, urging instead "appropriate UN bodies" to strengthen the
capacity of the least developing countries, especially in Africa
and Asia, to deal with disaster and humanitarian crises spawned
by climate change.


He expressed hope that the debate "will not in any way elevate
the issue of climate or environment to being an agenda item of
the Security Council."

