

Danish Foreign Minister Per Stig Moeller Tuesday called on
Zimbabwe's neighbours to exert pressure on veteran ruler Robert
Mugabe and help end his "brutal" regime.


Moeller, speaking after talks with two leading Zimbabwean
opposition figures, also urged the continent's powerhouse South
Africa to do more to defuse the political and economic crises
plaguing its northern neighbour.


"I don't think they (southern African nations) have exercised
sufficient pressure up until now," the local Ritzau news agency
quoted him as saying.


Urging the 14-nation Southern African Development Community
regional bloc to "react," Moeller said South African President
Thabo Mbeki, mandated last month by his peers in the region to
defuse the crisis in Zimbabwe, should act firmly.


He said Mbeki, who has been accused by critics at home of
treating Mugabe with kid gloves, should "remember that the
credibility of southern Africa is at stake if Mugabe continues to
steer the boat."


Zimbabwe's once model economy has been on a downward spiral for
the last seven years, characterised by runaway inflation -- the
highest in the world -- and perennial shortages of basic
commodities.


Exacerbating the situation is the state's increasing crackdown on
all opposition to the rule of the country's founding president
Mugabe, who at 83 is Africa's oldest leader. Mugabe had held
power since 1980 when the country  gained independence from
Britain.


Last month, the ruling ZANU-PF party chose Mugabe to stand again
as its candidate in presidential elections next year.


Moeller, who held talks with Welshman Ncube and Tendai Biti,
members of Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change
party which has posed the strongest challenge to Mugabe, said
their testimony was "shocking.


"The regime is extremely brutal and seeks to snuff out any
opposition through the worst possible means," the minister said.


Western countries have imposed sanctions on Mugabe and his
coterie and have accused him of stifling democracy and human
rights in his now impoverished country.

