

Britain's international development minister on Tuesday sought to
assuage fears in Brussels that London will be less EU-friendly if
Finance Minister Gordon Brown succeeds Prime Minister Tony Blair
as expected.


"It's self-evident that a strong British presence in Europe, a
strong British commitment in Europe is absolutely in our
interests in the same way that a strong relationship with the US
is in our interests," Hilary Benn told reporters here when asked
about Brown's alleged euroscepticism.


Brown, chancellor of the exchequer since 1997, is reputedly among
the leaders of the governing Labour Party who is least
enthusiastic about the European project.


He is opposed to Britain adopting the euro and there have also
been reports in the British press that he plans to veto efforts
to revive the moribund EU constitution.


He has also previously criticised the "old European social
model".


Last September British treasury minister Ed Balls, a close ally
of Brown, set alarm bells ringing in Brussels by saying that the
chancellor could be as tough towards his EU counterparts as "Iron
Lady" Margaret Thatcher was.


Among Brown's EU critics is his former cabinet colleague Peter
Mandelson, now the EU's trade commissioner, who has complained of
his "over the top" demands for fundamental reform of the European
farm subsidies system.


Benn, tipped for a promotion in a Brown government, said such an
administration would not change tack on Europe's role in
development policies including global debt relief.


"I wouldn't have any worries on that score whatsoever," he said.


Benn, in a speech on climate change delivered to a Brussels
think-tank, extolled the virtues of the EU, which recently
celebrated its 50th birthday.


"We have seen peace cemented in place, foes become friends, and
democracy sustain prosperity. Average GDP per capita in Europe
now is almost 20 times what it was in 1957. It is no surprise
then that the union has expanded from six to 27 nations," he
said.


The issue of stronger ties to the European Union has vexed
Britain's political parties for years -- the main opposition
Conservative Party is no fan of the EU, and Labour has not always
agreed internally on its stance.


Blair is expected to announce his resignation after local
elections in Scotland, Wales and England on May 3, triggering a
seven-week party leadership campaign.


Brown is favourite to succeed him although some Labour members
question whether the serious-minded Scot can re-energise the
party's fortunes.


Whoever wins the leadership contest automatically becomes prime
minister as head of the largest party in parliament, without a
general election having to be called.

