

US officials Tuesday defended university leaders against
accusations that they reacted too slowly to an unfolding campus
drama allowing a Korean student time to mow down at least 30
people.


Anger has mounted among students and families at the Virginia
Tech University that warnings of an early morning shooting on
campus Monday were sent too late to stop a second, deadlier
massacre in another building.


There has also been criticism that the campus was not locked
down, allowing students to turn up for morning classes unaware of
the danger.


But the head of public safety for Virginia, John Marshall, told a
press conference the right decisions has been made.


"I think it's important to note that yesterday morning President
(Charles) Steger and his staff, and chief (Wendell) Flinchum in
law enforcement, made the right decisions based on the best
information that they had available at the time," Marshall said.


Early Monday a man and a woman were found dead in a dormitory
complex and police began questioning someone who knew one of the
victims.


But then more than two hours later South Korean student Cho
Seung-Hui, 23, stalked from classroom to classroom in an
engineering building, leaving a trail of carnage.


The entrance doors to the vast building complex had been chained
shut from the inside.


Bodies were found in four classrooms and a stairwell, police
confirmed Tuesday.


University president Charles Steger has countered the criticism
saying the authorities had acted on all the information they had
on hand.


Marshall said police now needed to get on with their inquiry, as
they have still not ruled out that Cho may have had help planning
and executing the massacre.


"Our priority needs to be and our focus needs to remain on the
ongoing criminal investigation and most importantly, on dealing
with the needs of the victims and their families and the students
here at Virginia Tech," said Marshall.


"Criminal investigations are by their very nature time consuming.
And that certainly is the case with a crime of this magnitude."

