

UN health officials on Tuesday called for greater efforts to
prevent the spread of HIV, warning that the long and costly
rollout of drugs to suppress the virus would fail to conquer the
global AIDS pandemic.


Kevin De Cock, director of the World Health Organisation's
HIV/AIDS department and Michel Sidibe, deputy director of UNAIDS,
spoke at a London press conference after publication of a major
report from UN agencies.


The review by the WHO, UNAIDS and Unicef says that only 28
percent of poor people who urgently need antiretroviral drugs
have access to the lifesaving treatment.


These drugs can suppress the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
to below detectable levels but not eradicate it, and if they are
stopped, the pathogen rebounds.


"We can't treat our way out of this epidemic," De Cock said.


"If 700,000 people are accessing therapy every year, but every
year we have over four million new infections, for every case
that goes on to treatment, there's six more getting to the back
of the line who will require therapy.


"A rebalancing of our perception of the epidemic and
reinvigorating prevention is absolutely essential. If there's one
big lesson, it's that you cannot separate prevention from
treatment."


Sidibe echoed his comments, saying that it was necessary to "turn
off the tap."


He illustrated his point with the example of Malawi, southern
Africa, where last year 40,000 people received treatment for the
first time, but the number of new cases was double that.


Individual countries should take ownership of targets for
HIV/AIDS treatment, De Cock said, while admitting that some
African nations were still not showing proper leadership over the
issue.


"I think those who are committed remain committed and those that
are not committed also haven't changed that much," he said.


And Sidibe raised questions about how the fight against HIV/AIDS
would be funded in the long-term.


Current funding levels are around eight billion dollars (5.9
billion euros), he said, adding that this would have to rise to
up to 23 billion by 2010 to fund prevention, care and treatment
programmes.

