

Guinea-Bissau's new Prime Minister Martinho Ndafa Cabi announced
Tuesday an opposition-dominated government after being chosen to
lead the poor west African nation following a political crisis.


President Joao Bernardo Vieira, who named Cabi prime minister
after three weeks of political deadlock sparked by the March 19
no-confidence vote against the regime of former premier Aristide
Gomes, retained control of key portfolios in the new government.


The foreign affairs, finance, interior and justice ministries
were given to people close to the president.


Only two members from the former government were retained:
Finance Minister Issuf Sanha who earlier held the economy
portfolio and Joao Pedro Caetano de Barros, who keeps his job as
a communications minister.


The new 29-member government is dominated by the left-wing Party
for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde (PAIGC) and
the Party for Social Change (PRS) which sparked the crisis that
led to the fall of Gomes.


Gomes got the boot for the manner in which state funds were spent
in one of the world's poorest countries and for failing to clear
pay arrears of civil servants.


Guinea-Bissau, which won independence from Portugal in 1974, is
the world's fifth poorest nation, according to the UN.


Cabi, who is from the PAIGC, has vowed to tackle the country's
political and economic ills after being sworn in on Friday.


"My priority is to open dialogue with all political movements so
as to have broad consensus on the key issues," he said.


Cabi promised to resolve the pay arrears crisis and to deal with
problems dogging the country's cashew nuts sector, the main
currency earner which is reeling under falling global prices.


President Vieira has struggled to govern since returning to power
in July 2005.


He had been toppled in 1999 after 19 years of iron-fisted rule
but returned from exile to run for the presidency as an
independent in 2005.


Vieira has since had problems securing support from a parliament
dominated by three political parties not aligned to him.


Vieira has promised to "work hand-in-hand" with Cabi's
government.


A former energy and defence minister, Cabi also pledged to create
conditions for free and fair parliamentary elections due next
year.


He is the third prime minister in less than two years of Vieira's
tenure. Carlos Gomes Junior was sacked only a few months into
office following a series of disputes with Vieira in this nation
whose history is chequered by coups and military dictatorships.

