

The drive by Poland's ruling conservatives to root out and punish
former communists has ensnared ex-president General Wojciech
Jaruzelski, who was formally charged Tuesday with the "communist
crime" of declaring martial law in 1981.


Jaruzelski, now 83, faces up to 10 years in jail if he is found
guilty of "having led an armed organisation of a criminal
character" -- referring to the communist regime that imposed
martial law on December 13, 1981.


He was head of the government and of the Polish communist party
between 1981 and 1989 that declared martial law in a bid to stamp
out a challenge to the communist regime from the Solidarity trade
union, led by Lech Walesa.


Thousands of arrests followed and dozens of people were killed in
clashes.


The National Remembrance Institution (IPN) formally filed charges
Tuesday against Jaruzelski and eight other ex-communist
officials.


"Our aim is to fulfill an obligation to the nation and the Polish
state, as well as to all those who suffered injustice and
humiliation during the period of martial law," said IPN official
Andrzej Drogon.


The IPN was set up in 1998 -- nine years after Poland shed
communism -- and has focussed on crimes committed by the Moscow-
backed regime that ruled Poland from the close of World War II
until 1989.


Jaruzelski is the latest target in the clampdown on communists by
the conservative Law and Justice (PiS) Party, which came to power
in late 2005 and is led by identical twins, Polish President Lech
Kaczynski and Prime Minister Jaroslaw -- both former Solidarity
activists.


Just months after taking office, following Poland's autumn 2005
general election, the PiS-led government took firm steps towards
making good on its campaign promise to root out communists.


At the beginning of last year, a dozen ambassadors linked with
the former communist regime were recalled, and the government
began disbanding the communist-era military intelligence service.


Last month, the Kaczynski-led regime took the communist witch
hunt a step further, when it extended the scope of a so-called
"lustration" law.


The law, which previously affected only lawmakers, government
ministers and judges, or around 30,000 of Poland's 38 million
people, was exponentially broadened to include academics,
journalists, managers of state-owned firms, school principals,
diplomats and lawyers.


It now affects nearly three-quarters of a million Poles, who are
required to fill out declarations saying whether or not they
collaborated with the communist-era secret police, or face the
sack.


Eight other high-ranking officials in Poland's communist
government face similar charges to the aged general for their
role in the martial law crackdown. They include the former boss
of the Polish United Workers' Party, Stanislaw Kania.


Jaruzelski has long argued that he imposed martial law to avoid
what he feared would be inevitable Soviet military intervention
if communism collapsed in Poland, and many Poles tend to agree
with him.


The bespectacled son of a Polish nobleman is already involved in
another long- running court case, in which he is accused of the
bloody crushing of a workers' uprising on Poland's industrial
Baltic coast in 1970, when Jaruzelski was defence minister.


In February, President Kaczynski said he intended to demote
Jaruzelski from general to simple private for his role in
imposing martial law.

