

South Africa rode on Andrew Hall's maiden five-wicket burst to
storm into the World Cup semi-finals with an emphatic nine-wicket
win which humiliated England here on Tuesday.


The paceman finished with 5-18 off 10 economical overs as South
Africa dismissed England for a paltry 154 before racing to the
target with more than 30 overs to spare in what was a must-win
Super Eights match for both teams.


South Africa made a mockery of the England total, with skipper
Graeme Smith (89 not out) and AB de Villiers (42) putting on 85
for the opening wicket off just 59 balls in a one-sided contest.


The victory also ended the West Indies' slim chances of advancing
in the tournament as South Africa (eight points) now joined
defending champions Australia (12), New Zealand (10) and Sri
Lanka (8) in the semi-finals.


England, who have beaten only debutants Ireland and Bangladesh in
the second round, remained on four points with just one game to
go against the hosts, who have two points from five matches.


England virtually went out of the game after a dismal batting
performance against a sharp South African attack on a Kensington
Oval pitch having both pace and bounce.


Fast bowler Andre Nel (3-35) was the first to rock England when
he bagged two key wickets in his fiery opening spell, getting rid
of struggling skipper Michael Vaughan and in-form Kevin
Pietersen.


England's batting hardly looked convincing against pace as none
of their batsman could reach a half-century. Andrew Strauss (46),
Paul Collingwood (30) and Ravi Bopara (27 not out) batted
defiantly, but it was just not good enough.


They lost their last seven wickets for a meagre 43 runs, much to
the disappointment of their supporters.


In contrast, South Africa's batting bloomed right from the
beginning as De Villiers and Smith put England to the sword with
their aggressive knocks.


De Villiers hit eight fours in his brisk 35-ball knock.


Smith smashed 13 fours in his 58-ball innings, his fifth half-
century in the ongoing tournament.


England earlier failed to lift their batting performance.


Pietersen was involved in a brief fascinating duel with South
Africa, the country of his birth. He was tested by Nel with a
bouncer and was struck on the body off the next delivery.


Pietersen, his team's leading scorer with 341 runs before this
game, looked subdued during his brief stay at the crease before
falling to a diving catch at mid-off of Nel.


Smith, who has been involved in a war of words with Pietersen,
dived forward to bring off a low catch to spark wild on-field
celebrations.


Vaughan's nightmare run with the bat continued when he was
trapped leg-before by Nel after making 17. The England skipper
has so far scored 130 in eight matches at the World Cup, without
a half-century.


Andrew Flintoff was bowled middle-stump by a gem of a Hall
delivery which came in sharply off the wicket. Like his captain,
the all-rounder is also struggling for runs having now made 77 in
seven matches.

