

A 23-year-old loner, whose gory and disturbing writings troubled
his classmates and teachers, will now go down in US history among
the country's deadliest killers.


Cho Seung-Hui moved to the United States when he was just eight,
but 15 years later his name is set to be permanently etched on
the tragic roll call of US school and campus killings after he
mowed down 32 people before turning his gun on himself.


When he died, Cho was in his last year of studying English, and
his writings at Virginia Tech, described as disturbed, gory and
surreal, were shocking enough that a professor had pulled him
from class, CNN reported.


"There were several of us in English who became concerned when we
had him in class, for various reasons. And so I contacted some
people to try to get some help for him because I was deeply
concerned," Lucinda Roy, one of Cho's professors said.


Roy said she privately tutored him for a time, and added that
throughout her teaching career she had never seen a student as
troubled as Cho.


Stephanie Derry, who studied playwriting with Cho, told the
school newspaper, Collegiate Times, that gunman's dramas were
"really morbid and grotesque" and that other students used to
joke about Cho's creepy work.


"I mean who throws hammers or chainsaws around?" she said. "But
we always joked we were just waiting for him to do something,
waiting to hear about something he did."


Derry noted that Cho had always been silent in class, not
reacting to students' comments on his work.


"He would just sit and watch us, but wouldn't say anything. It
was his lack of behavior that really set him apart," she said.


In the end, his writings may serve as his last testament and
offer the only clues to his motive.


ABC news and the Chicago Tribune reported Tuesday that Cho left a
long, rambling note in his dormitory room, railing against "rich
kids," "debauchery" and "deceitful charlatans" on campus, the
Chicago Tribune reported.


"You caused me to do this," he wrote.


Cho also died with the words "Ismail Ax" in red ink on the inside
of one of his arms, the Tribune reported, citing unidentified
sources.


Police suspect Cho first killed two people at a campus dormitory.


Then he returned to his own dorm to write the rambling invective,
re-arm and then storm the classroom building, chain shut the
doors, stalk from room to room and kill 30 people and himself.


Cho was among the 2,000 foreigners from more than 110 countries
attending the 26,000-student university in Blacksburg, Virginia.
Cho retained his South Korean nationality, but his family lived
in Centreville, Virginia, a suburb of Washington.


South Korea's government expressed "indescribable surprise and
shock" after Cho was identified.


Cho had shown recent signs of violent, aberrant behavior,
including setting a fire in a dorm room and allegedly stalking
some women, the Tribune said, citing an unnamed investigative
source.


Investigators believe Cho at some point had been taking
medication for depression, the daily said.


The Tribune said his family runs a dry cleaning business while
his sister graduated from the elite Princeton University.


Cho "was very quiet, always by himself," neighbor Abdul Shash
told the paper. He spent a lot of his free time playing
basketball, and would not respond if someone greeted him, Shash
said.


Police released little more official information about Cho and
university officials had trouble tracking down details about him.


"He was a loner," said Larry Hincker, associate vice president
for university relations.


The lone gunman is the most common profile for a mass murderer,
someone who is "isolated, reclusive and antisocial" said Alan
Langlieb, director of workplace psychiatry at Johns Hopkins
University.


"It's not exactly clear what snaps," he said. "Some of it is
premeditated, but a person could wake up that day and decide,
'I'm going to create social havoc.'"

