

US consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in March as energy costs shot
higher, the government reported Tuesday in a report offering a
mixed inflation outlook with some hope for easing.


The Labor Department's consumer price index (CPI) was nonetheless
below market expectations for a 0.7 percent increase.


Also, the "core" inflation rate that excludes volatile food and
energy costs showed a modest 0.1 percent rise against
expectations for a 0.2 percent increase.


Over the past year, consumer prices are up 2.8 percent overall
and 2.5 percent for the core inflation rate.


The rise in March was led by a 5.8 percent surge in energy costs,
the largest since September 2005. Energy costs rose 22.9 percent
in the first three months of the year.


Gasoline prices jumped 10.3 percent in March alone, accounting
for a big part of the overall index.


Food prices increased 0.3 percent in March and 7.3 percent for
the first quarter.


Real average weekly earnings, which are adjusted for inflation,
fell 0.1 percent in March, while average hourly earnings, which
are not adjusted for inflation, rose 0.3 percent in the month.


The report generated mixed comments, with some analysts saying
the data show inflation is slowly coming into check as expected
by Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, and others less sure.


"The core CPI itself appears to be decelerating," said Steven
Wieting, economist at Citigroup, who called the news
"comforting."


Kenneth Beauchemin at Global Insight said the report could allow
the Fed to cut rates soon if the trend continues.


"After two elevated monthly readings, the subdued March core CPI
number reveals a short-term inflation path that is consistent
with the decline so eagerly anticipated by the Fed," he said.


"Similar improvement during the second quarter will be required
before the Fed can take the rate-hike option of the table,
however."


But Peter Morici, economist at the University of Maryland, said
inflation remains troublesome, using either the headline or core
measurement.


"Surging gasoline prices will push up sharply the broader indexes
of consumer price inflation in April and May. This bolt of
inflation may have Federal Reserve policymakers reaching for the
stomach remedies in their medicine cabinets," he said.


Morici said even core inflation "remains above Ben Bernanke's
target range of one to two percent a year, and relief from this
inflation is not likely before fall of this year."


This means the Fed is likely to stick with its current stand on
interest rates a federal funds rate of 5.25 percent.


"The Federal Reserve will not likely be able to accomplish both
moderate inflation and reasonable GDP (gross domestic product)
and employment growth," he said.


"Faced with choosing between instigating a recession or an
inflation spiral it cannot much slow, the best policy course will
be to do nothing."

