

US shares traded mostly higher Tuesday as the market appeared to
keep some momentum from a big rally in the prior session amid
generally positive economic and corporate news.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 47.86 points (0.38
percent) to 12,768.32 at 1445 GMT, within 20 points of its all-
time closing high hit in February.


The Nasdaq composite rose a fractional 0.13 points (0.01 percent)
to 2,518.46 while  broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
edged up 3.72 points (0.25 percent) to 1,472.19.


Traders mulled generally positive economic news a day after a
rally that lifted the broad market up more than one percent.


US housing starts increased 0.8 percent in March, the Commerce
Department said in a report defying many forecasts for more
declines in the troubled property market.


A separate report showed US consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in
March but the "core" inflation rate that excludes volatile food
and energy costs showed a modest 0.1 percent rise.


Some analysts say the core is more important because it gives a
better indication of future inflation trends. The latest data
would keep the core rate within the "comfort zone" of the Federal
Reserve even though core prices are up 2.5 percent in the past 12
months.


Citigroup economist Steven Wieting said the inflation news was
"comforting" and the housing report suggested the worst may be
over: "the construction data show more signs of bottoming than
otherwise."


Earnings from Coca-Cola followed a recent trend of beating market
expectations, setting a positive tone.


"The stock market's reaction to the early wave of first quarter
earnings reports now resembles the reaction we saw last October,"
said Fred Dickson at DA Davidson.


"However, we have to question whether the market may be
overreacting to results that, while coming in better than
estimated, lacks the fundamental strength of the results we
observed last fall. Technically, the current market appears
powerful, but it is lacking in trading volume.  We suspect some
of the enthusiasm is coming from a halo effect from the steady
stream of merger announcements."

