

The deadliest school shooting in US history has put gun control
firmly back on the agenda, with calls for tighter restrictions on
gun ownership to prevent such a tragedy ever happening again.


Two major advocates of gun control said that while full details
of Monday's shooting at a Virginia university were not clear, the
tragedy just showed how much of a problem gun violence posed in
American society.


Paul Helmke of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said
that while it was still not clear what motivated South Korean
student Cho Seung-Hui to go on the rampage, it was simply too
easy to get hold of a gun in the United States.


The mass shooting came almost eight years to the day after two
gunmen ran amok in Columbine High School, killing 13 people, and
six months after a lone gunman shot dead five people at an Amish
school in Pennsylvania.


"Since these killings, we've done nothing as a country to end gun
violence in our schools and communities," said Helmke. "If
anything, we've made it easier to access powerful weapons."


"It is long overdue for us to take some common-sense actions to
prevent tragedies like this from continuing to occur," he said.


Ladd Everitt of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence said that
while it was not known whether Cho legally owned a gun, the
shooting highlighted how much of a problem gun violence had
become, with a spate of recent shootings.


"We still live in a society where gun violence is an overriding
concern,"    he said. "We've had a series of these high profile,
very violent shootings that have taken a lot of victims.


"We continue to lose more than 30,000 people every year in this
country to gun violence," he said, calling for the introduction
of "sensible" gun laws.


"The illegal gun market in this nation is really fed by a number
of loopholes in existing laws that allow criminals and children
and other prohibited purchasers persistently and easily to get
guns," he told AFP.


More than 30 states had yet to close loopholes allowing convicted
felons to buy weapons at gunfairs, for example, with no
background checks, he said.


"It's loopholes like that really feed the illegal gun market and
which we should be targeting."


The National Rifle Association, a leading US pro-gun group that
cites the right to bear arms enshrined in the constitution,
declined to comment on the shooting but offered its condolences
to the families of the victims.


Newspapers joined the call for tighter restrictions on gun
ownership.


The New York Times called Monday's carnage "another horrifying
reminder that some of the gravest dangers Americans face come
from killers at home armed with guns that are frighteningly easy
to obtain."


"It seems a safe bet that in one way or another, this will turn
out to be another instance in which an unstable or criminally
minded individual had no trouble arming himself," it said in an
editorial.


"Sympathy was not enough at the time of Columbine, and eight
years later it is not enough," it said.


"What is needed, urgently, is stronger controls over the lethal
weapons that cause such wasteful carnage and such unbearable
loss."


The New York Daily News called for laws to be tightened, deriding
one of the pro-gun lobby's favorite phrases. "Right, sure, guns
don't kill people, people with guns kill people. We've heard it
already," the paper said in an editorial.


"We do not know if yesterday's crazed shooter had his guns
legally registered to him or not. That's hardly even the point
now.


"This is insanity, and this must stop. We agree, frankly, that if
guns are outlawed, as they say, only outlaws will have guns," it
added.

