

The United States has received no notification from North Korea
that it has started closing its nuclear reactor as required under
a six-nation disarmament deal, a senior US official said Tuesday.


But State Department spokesman Sean McCormack declined to comment
on reports that US spy satellites had spotted unusual movement
Monday at the Yongbyon reactor in a possible sign it was
preparing to shut the facility.


"We haven't received any formal notification from the North
Koreans that they are at this point taking steps to fulfill their
obligations under the Feb 13 agreements: shutting down and
sealing the Yongbyon plant," McCormack told reporters.


"Beyond that, I can't comment on intelligence-related matters --
what we may or may not know," he said.


Under the February agreement, Pyongyang was to have shut and
sealed Yongyon by April 14 in return for fuel aid and a start to
normalizing relations with Washington.


But Pyongyang ignored the deadline, citing an unresolved dispute
over North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to US
sanctions.


South Korea's Dong-A Ilbo newspaper reported earlier Tuesday that
US spy satellites on Monday spotted unusual movement of people
and vehicles around the cooling tower and parking lot at
Yongbyon,


The US and South Korea believed it was likely the activities were
part of operations to close down the reactor, which experts say
has provided North Korea with enough plutonium to make six to 12
nuclear weapons, it said.


South Korea's National Intelligence Service (NIS) confirmed to
AFP that "unusual movements" had been spotted around the reactor
but could not say what they might mean.


The reports raised hopes that Pyongyang may be preparing to take
the first step agreed to in the February pact reached with China,
Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and South Korean Foreign
Minister Song Min-Soon discussed the situation by telephone on
Tuesday, officials said.


The United States and the other parties to the negotiations have
agreed to give North Korea "a bit more time" to fulfil its
promise to shut Yongbyon, McCormack said.


"I would say that we are being flexible," he said. "There is some
delays in the process and we're willing to give it a bit more
time," he added, while declining to put any timeframe on how long
Washington is willing to wait.


North Korea has insisted it will begin shutting Yongbyon and
readmit UN atomic inspectors once it has retrieved 25 million
dollars in funds frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia (BDA).


The United States, which orchestrated the freeze after accusing
the bank of complicity in North Korean money-laundering and
counterfeiting, has said the funds were freed for collection last
week.


But there has been no word on when and how North Korea will
actually recover the funds.


Russia and Japanese officials indicated this week that they think
Washington is still involved in holding up a resolution of the
dispute, a contention McCormack rejected.


"It's an inaccurate assessment of the situation," he said. "Any
issues that remain are between North Korea and their bankers."


McCormack said a decision this week by BDA to challenge the US
Treasury ruling that led to the sanctions against it should not
have any impact on North Korea's ability to recover its funds.

