

EU regulators are to turn their crackdown on illegal cartels to
the Dutch beer market on Wednesday with fines on brewing giants
such as Heineken and InBev, sources said on Tuesday.


The beer cartel would be the third to be hit with fines this year
after EU trustbusters chalked up a record 1.7 billion euros (2.3
billion dollars) in penalties against makers of lifts and power
generation equipment in separate cases.


According to several sources close to the matter, the European
Union's top antitrust regulator Neelie Kroes has targeted Dutch
brewers Heineken, Bavaria and Grolsch and Belgian-Brazilian group
InBev.


While the European Commission declined to comment on the matter,
Heineken acknowledged that it "expected a fine."


Between 1994 and 1998, the four brewers shared sensitive
information about prices and divvied up the market among
themselves, keeping prices artificially high in the Netherlands,
according to one source who asked to remain anonymous.


The roots of the case go back to the beginning of the decade when
the Commission's trustbusters launched a probe into suspected
unfair practices by some European brewers, leading in September
2005 to formal charges being lodged.


The regulators' probe has already led to fines against brewers
for running cartels in Belgium, France, and Luxembourg and now it
appears that it is the turn of The Netherlands.


Because InBev and Heineken have participated in the past in
cartels, they risk particularly heavy fines, although the exact
amount is unlikely to be set until shortly before they are
officially announced on Wednesday.


While InBev declined to comment, a Heineken spokeswoman Veronique
Schyns said from Amsterdam: "We've expected a decision for some
time but now we expect a decision tomorrow (Wednesday) and we
expect a fine."


In late trading, shares in Heineken were showing a loss of 0.61
percent at 38.79 euros in Amsterdam while InBev was down 0.36
percent at 56.74 euros in Brussels.


Also in Amsterdam, Grolsch shares were off 1.24 percent at 31.75
euros. Bavaria is a privately-held company.


EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes has made a "no-
tolerance" crackdown on cartels a top priority during her tenure
as Europe's top regulator and has lodged ever-rising record fines
against the illegal clubs.


Most recently, the Dutch commissioner imposed the biggest fine
ever in a EU cartel case by bringing an illegal trust of lift
makers crashing down in February with a penalty of 992 million
euros.


In recent months, her growing team of trustbusters have handed
formal charges against suspected cartels making professional-
quality videotape, glass and bathroom fittings and bulk liquids
shippers.


She also said last month that she expected to break up as many as
nine or 10 cartels this year and set a new record in annual fines
handed out to offending firms.

