

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met Tuesday with the
Palestinian finance minister, the highest level US contact yet
with a member of the unity government led by the radical Islamic
group Hamas, a US official said.


Rice met Salam Fayyad, a respected former World Bank official and
independent member of the Palestinian government, while he was
holding talks "in a private capacity" with Assistant Secretary of
State David Welch, spokesman Gonzalo Gallegos said.


Gallegos did not provide details of the discussions, other than
to say they dealt with matters "Fayyad is currently undertaking."


Fayyad was in Washington to attend the spring meetings of the
World Bank and International Monetary Fund and has been holding
talks with Western governments to seek additional financial aid
for the beleagured Palestinians.


The administration of President George W. Bush has refused to
lift an aid and diplomatic boycott of the Palestinian government
because of the involvement of ministers from Hamas, which the US,
EU and Israel consider a terrorist group.


But in a policy shift, Washington has agreed to have dealings
with non-Hamas members of the administration. It continues to
refuse any meetings with Hamas officials.


Lower-level US officials have already met with Fayyad since the
unity government was formed in March, but Tuesday's was the first
time Rice had encountered any of the cabinet ministers.


Fayyad said last week during a visit to Europe that he hoped to
obtain an easing of banking restrictions which have impeded the
delivery of international aid to Palestinian entities under the
US-backed aid boycott on Hamas.


"What remains now to happen is for us to restore the capacity to
receive funds," Fayyad said following talks last week in Oslo
with Norwegian officials, who agreed to resume aid to the new
Palestinian administration.


"That is contingent on the banking restrictions being removed,"
he said. "When that happens ... Palestine will be ready for
business and I expect hopefully that this issue will be resolved
very soon."


The unity government groups the moderate Fatah party of
Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas along with independents and
leaders of Hamas, which refuses to officially recognize Israel
and has carried out hundreds of deadly attacks against the Jewish
state in the past.


Formation of the government in March took the US by surprise and
torpedoed a plan by Rice to revive the Israeli-Palestinian peace
process by brokering negotiations between Abbas and Israel on the
creation of a Palestinian state.


During a visit to the region in March, Rice did manage to get
Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to agree to hold
regular meetings on confidence- building measures, including
security and economic issues.


The two held the first of the meetings on Sunday and are due to
meet fortnightly.


But there are no immediate plans for the two sides to discuss the
thorniest issues about Palestinian statehood, including the
borders of the future entity, the future of Jerusalem and the
fate of Palestinian refugees.


Abbas was in Paris Tuesday in a bid to convince the European
Union to lift the aid boycott imposed a year ago by the so-called
Quartet of Mideast peace mediators -- the United States, United
Nations, EU and Russia.


"We have discussed what has been worrying us the most ... the
financial and economic blockade which has to be lifted," Abbas
told reporters after meeting with French President Jacques Chirac
in Paris on the first stop of a European tour.

