

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte on Tuesday urged the
deployment of foreign troops in volatile Chad, Sudan and the
Central African Republic which have been wracked by fighting.


"We fully support the deployment of two international
peacekeeping forces in the region: the first is a hybrid United
Nations-African Union force in Darfur," in Sudan, Negroponte told
reporters in the Chadian capital N'Djamena.


The second, Negroponte said, was "a United Nations peacekeeping
force for eastern Chad and northeastern Central African
Republic."


"These robust international forces are required to improve the
security of affected populations, and are the subject of
continued bilateral discussions between Chad and the United
States," he said.


Chad and Sudan have accused each other of staging cross-border
attacks, with relations between them recently taking a nosedive
after their forces clashed on the Sudanese side of the border.
Khartoum claimed 17 of its troops had died while the Chadians
said 30 soldiers from both sides had been killed.


Fighting in Sudan's western Darfur region that started in 2003
has also spilled over into neighbouring Chad and the Central
African Republic.


Negroponte, who is on a four-nation African tour focused on
trying to resolve the crisis in Darfur, is set to hold talks
Wednesday in Tripoli with Libya's pointman for Africa, Abdel
Salam Triki.


He flew into to the Libyan capital from Chad, where he paid a
brief visit following a five-day stay in Sudan.


While in Sudan, Negroponte pushed for Khartoum to accept all
three phases of a UN plan to bring stability to Darfur, which is
supposed to culminate with the deployment of UN peacekeepers to
bolster the embattled African Union force in the war-torn region.


Sudan on Monday accepted the second phase of the plan, mainly
involving logistical and technical support from the UN, but has
yet to give its green light to the most contentious final phase
of deploying UN troops in Darfur.


The United Nations estimates that some 200,000 people have died
in Darfur and 2.5 million have been displaced since 2003.

