

Live Aid founder Bob Geldof and the BBC announced Tuesday they
had joined forces on an ambitious multi-media project to produce
a Dictionary of Man that will be a complete record of humanity.


Geldolf said the web-based Dictionary would be a limitless
repository of content: an immense, digital catalogue of all
current human existence and an enormous resource for the exchange
of ideas and information.


"This will be a giant mapping of ourselves," he said during the
launch of the project at the world's biggest digital audiovisual
MIPTV/MILIA tradeshow.


Geldof said he was first inspired to act after hearing about
disappearing languages in Africa 20 years ago.


"Ultimately, I suppose in some ways we're also building the
world's family photo album," he added.


The British Broadcasting Corporation will at the same time
produce a landmark series entitled "The Human Planet", to capture
the glories of the planet and the diversity of humans.


The scale and ambition of the dictionary project was enormous,
said Geldof and award-winning producer/director John Maguire, who
is working with him on the project.


"This will be an A to Z of Mankind, which will catalogue the
world we live in now, the people who share this planet, the way
we live and the way we adapt to face common and different
challenges. Mankind is the world's most extraordinary animal,"
said Geldolf.


"In an age of globalisation and increasing connection, we face
the growing homogenisation of cultures and the disappearance of
extraordinary and diverse mechanisms that man has invested in
order to survive in whichever environment he has found himself.
Culture is a function of survival," he added.


In a statement, the BBC said the scale and ambition of the
anthropological project was "unprecedented".


It would use every available medium to create the "largest ever
living record" of films, photographs, anthropological histories,
philosophies, theologies, economies, language and art, as well as
people's personal stories.


The BBC said the multimedia project would ultimately allow people
from across the globe to track their tribes, clan and families on
the other side of the world.


Camera crews would capture all 900 of the separate groups of
people anthropologists believe exist in the world, it added.


The idea for mapping mankind had "been rattling around in my head
for about 25 years," said Geldolf.


It started when he was in Niger at the height of the country's
devastating drought and he was sitting on a tree stump with a
regional governor, looking out at what Geldof described as a
"moonscape".


"The governor told of how 300 different languages that once
existed had disappeared forever in just two years during the
famine," he said.


From then on, Geldof was determined to record "all those sounds,
voices and jokes so they never disappear again."


Geldof said a website would be up and running very shortly,
perhaps even this week.


And despite the enormity of the project, he believed there would
be a lot of information already on the site within six months.


All the information stored on the web-based Dictionary would be
free, but there would be "all the usual advertising and stuff" to
help finance the venture, he added.


The eight-part BBC documentary series, which will not be ready
before 2010, would be funded by the BBC and "unashamedly
commercial", he added.


Geldolf said he would be happy to get other people involved in
helping film and track civilisations around the world, though he
did not go into detail.


The London-based public service broadcaster, its commercial arm
BBC Worldwide and Geldof's Ten Alps media group are to
collaborate on the project.


Geldolf's Ten Alps media group will provide administrative and
infrastructure back-up on the project, which is projected to be
sold worldwide.

