

Human Rights Watch urged the international community Tuesday to
impose sanctions on Sudan unless Khartoum agreed to a larger
deployment of UN peacekeepers in the war-wracked region of
Darfur.


Sudan on Monday accepted a second phase of a UN plan to bring
stability to the western region, adding 3,000 UN troops to an
under-manned African Union force, but Human Rights Watch said the
move was a political ploy.


"Sudan's green light for only part of the peacekeeping force is
too little, too late, and is aimed only at defusing international
pressure and heading off sanctions," said Peter Takirambudde,
Africa director at Human Rights Watch.


A three-phase plan floated last year by former UN chief Kofi
Annan was supposed to culminate with the deployment of 20,000 UN
peacekeepers to bolster the embattled African force in Darfur, a
region the size of France.


"Concerned governments should impose targeted sanctions against
Sudanese officials unless Khartoum immediately agrees to the full
deployment of the proposed 20,000-member... peacekeeping force,"
the group said in a statement.


Takirambudde urged the international community to maintain focus
on the full force, which it said would be able to help protect
civilians in Darfur.


"The Sudanese government won't act to end the violence in Darfur
unless it's pushed to do so," said Takirambudde.


"Darfur's civilians are paying the price for the international
community's reluctance to impose real penalties on the leaders in
Khartoum."


Sudan's announcement on Monday paves the way for 3,000 UN
personnel -- mostly military and police staff -- to be dispatched
to provide logistical, communications and air support to 7,000
under-equipped African Union troops.


The current force has failed to stem four years of bloody ethnic
strife in Darfur and Sudan has so far refused to accept a large-
scale UN troop presence.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in four years of ethnic
strife in Darfur and more than two million displaced, according
to the United Nations. Khartoum disputes the figures, while
others say the death toll is higher.

