

The risk of suicidal behavior in children and teenagers using
some of the most popular antidepressants is negligible and US
authorities should consider removing mandatory health warnings
from the drug packaging, according to a study released Tuesday.


The use of many newer antidepressants in the treatment of
children and adolescents has been dogged by controversy for years
now, with critics and several studies contending that the drugs
actually triggered suicidal impulses and attempts in some
vulnerable patients.


In 2004, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) mandated tough
"black box" warnings alerting consumers to the potential deadly
side effects of the drugs in younger patients.


And in 2006, the FDA published a review of 24 studies involving
4,400 children and adolescents that showed the drugs carried a
twofold increased risk of suicidal behavior, although no suicides
were reported.


The furor caused some doctors to shy away from writing
prescriptions for such medications for younger patients, leading
some physicians and patient advocates to charge that troubled
youngsters were going untreated, according to many US newspaper
reports.


This study, like the FDA report in 2006, was based on a review of
numerous clinical trials, but the authors analysed the data using
a different methodology from the federal scientists.


The investigators found that the drug-related risk of suicidal
behavior was less than one percent, and that just one in 100
youngsters reported experiencing suicidal thoughts after
beginning to take the medications.


Even fewer than one in 100 acted on those thoughts and no one
killed themselves, according to the study in the April 18 edition
of the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA).


The researchers concluded that the risk was not statistically
significant, and that the drugs were effective for the treatment
of anxiety disorders and to a lesser extent obsessive compulsive
disorder and major depression in children and adolescents.


"We believe that the strength of evidence presented here supports
the cautious and well-monitored use of antidepressant medications
as one of the first-line treatment options," the authors said.


The analysis was based on 27 studies conducted between 1998 and
2006 involving more than 5,000 participants.


Patients were all aged 19 and under and were prescribed Serzone,
Effexor and Remeron or one of the many SSRIs (selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors) on the market, including Prozac and Zoloft.


David Brent, professor of psychiatry at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, one of the authors of the paper,
noted the dangers associated with withholding treatment from
emotionally and mentally troubled youngsters and urged the FDA to
review its stance on the black-box warnings.


"While there is a small, increased risk of suicidal thoughts in
those who use antidepressants, it would be much, much riskier to
not treat these children and adolescents dealing with these
disorders," he said in a statement.


"While I support the FDA's role in monitoring the safety of
medications, in this case, the FDA should reconsider the black-
box warning on these medications," he concluded.


The study was funded by the National Institute of Mental Health
and conducted by Brent and Jeffery Bridge at Ohio State
University in Columbus, Ohio.

