

Training of US army units bound for Iraq could be affected as
early as next month if Congress fails to approve more funding for
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan by then, the top US general
said Tuesday.


A 100-billion-dollar funding request for operations in Iraq and
Afghanistan has hit an impasse over language that would set a
deadline for the withdrawal of US forces from Iraq.


President George W. Bush has threatened to veto the bill as
Democratic lawmakers work to reconcile House and Senate versions
of the measure.


General Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
told defense reporters the army will be forced to make cut backs
in training of units scheduled to deploy to Iraq if funding does
not come in by mid May.


That in turn could force longer tours for units already there, he
told defense reporters.


"If the money is not in hand by 15 May, then the army would have
to start considering, exclusive of the decision they've already
made, tour lengths of units because you may not have all you need
at home to properly train these units to be able to be deployed,"
he said.


The Pentagon last week announced a three month extension of all
army units in Iraq from 12 to 15 months, to give other army units
at least year at home to train and prepare for deployments to
Iraq and Afghanistan.


The US Army said in a statement late Monday that it is already
deferring spending on training and repair of "non mission
critical" equipment, as well as other administrative belt-
tightening measures.


It said it will institute a hiring freeze and begin releasing
temporary employees in May, stop entering into new contracts and
task orders, and suspend some contracts in support of training
events and facilities.


The Defense Department also has asked Congress to temporarily
shift 1.6 billion dollars from the navy and air force to army
operations, it said.


"The army estimates that even with these spending restrictions
and a temporary reprogramming of 1.6 billion dollars, funds are
sufficient to keep operations running only until the end of
June," it said.

