

The deadliest shooting rampage in modern US history sent shudders
around the world on Tuesday, especially in Seoul after the gunman
was identified as a South Korean student.


From Australia to Iran, world leaders offered condolences to the
victims' families, while voicing their horror at the
senselessness of the bloodbath at Virginia Tech university on
Monday that left 33 dead, including the gunman.


The killer was identified as a 23-year-old student from South
Korea with alien resident status in the United States -- news
that was received with stunned concern in Seoul.


"The government expresses indescribable surprise and shock over
this shooting incident," said South Korean foreign ministry
official Cho Byung-Jae.


While passing condolences to the victims' families, Cho, who
heads the ministry's North American affairs bureau, also hinted
at concern over possible reprisals.


"We have established safety measures for ethnic Koreans in the US
in case of contingencies and are in close consultations with all
of our diplomatic missions and Korean communities in the US to
implement the measures," he said, without elaborating.


Australian Prime Minister John Howard recalled how a 1996 rampage
by a lone gunman in Tasmania that killed 35 people had forced his
government to rethink the whole issue of gun control.


"We took action to limit the availability of guns and we showed a
national resolve that the gun culture that is such a negative in
the United States would never become a negative in our country,"
Howard said.


He extended his sympathies to the families of those killed and
wounded, saying universities and schools should be "a sanctuary
of learning, friendship and social interchange."


Pope Benedict XVI said he was "deeply saddened" by the "senseless
tragedy" and offered prayers for the victims and their families.


In London, Prime Minister Tony Blair expressed the "profound
sadness" of Britain and the British people at the "terrible loss
of innocent lives", but refused to be drawn on the issue of US
gun control.


"It would be completely inappropriate for me to make more general
comments about gun laws in respect of America," Blair said.


"That's a situation for America, for the American authorities,
for the American people," he added.


Gun crime is a hot topic in Britain after three teenagers were
shot dead in south London during a two-week spate of shootings
earlier this year.


Britain's Queen Elizabeth II was "shocked" and "saddened," a
spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace said.


Along with her husband, the Duke of Edinburgh, the queen is set
to pay a two-day visit to Virginia early next month to
commemorate the 400th anniversary of the Jamestown Settlement,
her first visit to the United States in 16 years.


In China, Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing sent a telegram to US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice expressing "shock,
condolences and our sincere solicitude to the US government and
those affected by the shootings."


Among other foreign governments to offer condolences was Iran,
with which the United States cut ties in 1980 after the seizure
of the US embassy in Tehran by Islamic revolutionary radicals.


Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said the
massacre was "against divine and humanitarian values."


Virginia Governor Timothy Kaine was in Tokyo when news of the
shooting at Virginia Tech broke and Japan, which has strict gun
control laws, was quick to offer its sympathies.


"I would like to express condolences from the bottom of my
heart," chief government spokesman Yasuhisa Shiozaki said.


French President Jacques Chirac expressed his "horror and
consternation" in a statement from his office, while in Brussels,
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso voiced profound
shock at "the assassination of so many students."


Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper meanwhile lamented the
death of a Canadian teacher of French, Jocelyne Couture-Nowak, in
the shooting.


"We learned that a Canadian was among the dead in Virginia,"
Harper said in parliament.


"It's really almost impossible to comprehend why an individual
would take his own life and that of so many others in this way,
but I think we can all say that our thoughts are with all the
victims, their families and the community."

