

Iraq will spend 25 million dollars (18 million euros) to aid
refugees in neighbouring countries by supporting healthcare and
education infrastructure, the country's foreign minister said on
Tuesday.


Hoshyar Zebari was speaking to the press after the first day of a
conference in Geneva on the plight of the millions of Iraqis
forced to flee their country since the US-led invasion in 2003.


"My government is prepared to work very closely with UNHCR (the
UN refugee agency), the international community to aid and assist
our displaced people in neighbouring countries," he said.


The 25 million dollars will go towards supporting health and
education infrastructure in countries such as Syria and Jordan,
which are struggling to cope with the growing influx of Iraqi
refugees.


Jordan and Syria together host nearly two million Iraqi refugees
out of a total of some four million displaced by the current
conflict and Saddam Hussein's regime.


The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies warned that hospitals, clinics and schools in the two
countries "have now reached their limits." It appealed for 15
million dollars in funding to help 100,000 Iraqi refugee families
there.


The Iraqi government will also set up offices in these host
countries, in close cooperation with national authorities, to
help meet the needs of refugees.


The package was welcomed by the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, who is chairing the two-day
conference.


"The Iraqi government has committed itself to a very meaningful
programme of support for various refugee communities abroad both
from the financial perspective and the legal perspective," he
said.


Zebari stressed that the key to solving the refugee problem lies
in finding a durable political settlement in the strife-torn
country.


"We won't be able to get rid of this (refugee) problem unless we
find a political solution in Iraq," he said.


"If Iraq were to fail, if the government were to fail, there
would be a major disaster in the region. The spillover would not
be contained within the boundaries or borders of Iraq," the
foreign minister warned.

