

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday assured thousands of
mourners for the victims of the deadliest school shooting in US
history that he and the entire United States grieved with them.


"In this time of anguish, I hope you know that people all over
this country are thinking about you," said Bush, who came with
First Lady Laura Bush to pay a somber tribute to the 32 slain at
Virginia Tech University.


"Laura and I have come to Blacksburg today with hearts full of
sorrow. This is a day of mourning for the Virginia Tech
community, and it is a day of sadness for our entire nation,"
said the US president.


Some students and staff at Virginia Tech sat somberly, while
others held their heads in their hands or sobbed openly one day
after a South Korean student gunned down 32 people before taking
his own life.


"As a dad, I can assure you, a parent's love is never far from
their child's heart," said Bush, the father of twin daughters.
"And as you draw closer to your own families in the coming days,
I ask you to reach out to those who ache for sons and daughters
who will never come home."


Many in 10,000-seat Cassell Coliseum wore the school's burnt
orange and maroon colors to honor those slain on what Bush
described as a routine day that took a "dark turn" into a bloody
nightmare that made global headlines.


"Yesterday began like any other day: Students woke up and they
grabbed their backpacks and they headed for class. And soon the
day took a dark turn, with students and faculty barricading
themselves in classrooms and dormitories, confused, terrified and
deeply worried," said the president.


"By the end of the morning, it was the worst day of violence on a
college campus in American history. And for many of you here
today, it was the worst day of your lives," he said.


Bush and wife Laura were among the high-profile audience members,
as was Virginia Governor Tim Kaine, who cut short an official
trip to Asia after being awakened with the grim news from home.


The Virginia Tech corps of cadets marched into the coliseum
solemnly to a muffled funeral drum beat. Vast floral wreaths on
easels could be seen. Some students hugged each other as speaker
after speaker praised the university's sense of community.


"I'm here to show my support for the victims and to stand
together," said graduate student Kerri Symons, 21.


Earlier, police identified Cho Seung-Hui, a 23-year-old student
majoring in English, as the gunman behind the shooting at the
university in Blacksburg, Virginia.


He killed 30 people in a classroom building before turning the
gun on himself, police said, adding that they suspect he had also
killed two other people moments earlier in another campus
building.


"It's impossible to make sense of such violence and suffering.
Those whose lives were taken did nothing to deserve their fate.
They were simply in the wrong place at the wrong time," said
Bush.


"Now they're gone, and they leave behind grieving families and
grieving classmates and a grieving nation," he said.


"And on this terrible day of mourning, it's hard to imagine that
a time will come when life at Virginia Tech will return to
normal. But such a day will come.


"And when it does, you will always remember the friends and
teachers who were lost yesterday and the time you shared with
them and the lives that they hoped to lead.


"May God bless you. May God bless and keep the souls of the lost.
And may his love touch all those who suffer in grief," said Bush.

