

Egyptian authorities said on Tuesday they had smashed a spy ring
working for Israel which included an Egyptian engineer with
Cairo's atomic energy commission, an Irishman and a Japanese
national.


The Egyptian had been arrested and had confessed, while the two
other suspects, including one named as Shiro Aizo, were being
hunted, state prosecutor Abdel Meduid Mahmud told reporters.


He said the Egyptian, Mohammed Sayyed Saber, 35, was accused of
supplying information to the Israeli secret service Mossad on
"the different activities" of Egypt's atomic energy body.


According to the official MENA news agency, Saber helped Israeli
intelligence hack into the Egyptian Atomic Agency's computer
network between February 2006 and February 2007, in exchange for
17,000 dollars and a laptop.


He provided Israeli intelligence with classified documents
pertaining to Egypt's Inshas nuclear research centre, north of
Cairo.


Saber was reported to have paid frequent visits to the Israeli
embassy in Cairo in May 1999 in the hope of getting a scholarship
to study nuclear engineering at Tel Aviv University, MENA said.


The Egyptian was questioned at Cairo airport as he returned from
Hong Kong, said the prosecutor, adding that the Irishman was not
detained and had fled.


Saber, with his two alleged accomplices being tried in absentia,
would face Egypt's high security court, the state prosecutor
said.


Last September, Egypt announced it was resuming its civilian
nuclear programme after a freeze of 20 years and said it planned
to build at least one nuclear power plant by the year 2020.


Israel, which vehemently opposes Iran's nuclear programme despite
Tehran saying it is for peaceful use, is believed to be the only
nuclear-armed power in the Middle East with an estimated 200
warheads.


Neither the Irish nor Japanese embassies in Cairo could
immediately confirm the reports.


Israel's embassy spokesman Benny Sharoni said, "All that we know
about this matter comes from the media. Up to the present, we
have no official Egyptian information on this subject."


The state security court is already holding one trial for alleged
spying for Israel, with one Egyptian in the dock and other
suspects again being tried in their absence.


Egypt and Israel signed a peace treaty in 1979.

