

US health authorities are warning the makers of a caffeine-loaded
beverage called Cocaine Energy Drink that the product is being
marketed as a "drug" and could be seized.


The Food and Drug Administration said in a letter this month to
Las Vegas-based Redux Beverages LLC that the marketing claims
made for the energy drink make it subject to regulation as a drug
under US law.


In the April 4 letter, the FDA said the drink, which contains no
cocaine or other illegal substances but has a variety of
stimulants including caffeine, "is marketed as an alternative to
an illicit street drug," with ingredients "intended to prevent,
treat or cure disease conditions."


"Street drug alternatives do not qualify as dietary supplements,"
said FDA compliance direction Pamela Schweikert in the letter.


The FDA said the claims made for the drink without required
authorization are all violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act.


"You must immediately correct these violations," the letter said.


"If you do not immediately correct them, you may be subject to
enforcement action against you without further notice. The Act
provides for the seizure of illegal products and for an
injunction against the manufacturer and distributors of illegal
products. Individuals and businesses that violate the Act may
also be subject to criminal prosecution."


A Redux spokesman said Tuesday the company was moving to comply
with the FDA requests and would meet with FDA officials this
week.


In a statement last week, the company dismissed "rumors and
inaccurate reports" that the drink had been banned.


Cocaine Energy Drink contains over 1,100 milligrams of caffeine,
slightly more than a large Starbucks coffee, according to the
company, and among the highest in the category.


It also contains taurine, an amino acid, and guarana, a stimulant
from a South American plant, as well as vitamins and other
ingredients. The makers call it "the legal alternative."


The product is one of several in a rapidly growing market for
energy drinks worth more than 3.5 billion dollars in the United
States alone.


But the drink has also drawn fire from local officials, with some
municipalities seeking to ban its sale.


Last year, the head of the National Center on Addiction and
Substance Abuse at Columbia University called the Redux campaign
"irresponsible" and urged retailers not to sell it.

