

The US government said Tuesday there were "compelling reasons" to
host Cambodia's police chief for counter-terrorism talks here
this week despite suspicions he was involved in terrorist
killings, drug trafficking and other crimes.


Hok Lundy, Cambodia's national police chief, has been granted a
visa to hold talks here Thursday with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on counter- terrorism matters, said State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


McCormack acknowledged that Lundy had been refused a US visa in
the past due to accusations he was involved in human trafficking,
and he said State Department officials were aware of other
allegations against the police official.


But he said that there were no "legal bars" preventing Lundy from
receiving a visa and that authorities had made a "policy
judgement" to let him attend the meeting with the FBI.


Lundy was notably implicated in a 1997 grenade attack against
anti-government demonstrators in Cambodia which killed at least
19 people and wounded more than 120 others, including a US
national.


The FBI classified the attack as an act of terrorism.


Lundy has also been accused of involvement in other politically
motivated killings, drug trafficking and human smuggling.


"We're not trying to discount those allegations," McCormack said.
"In this case, it was decided that he would be granted a visa
specifically to attend these counter-terrorism meetings."


"There were compelling reasons that he be granted a visa," he
said.


McCormack declined to elaborate on the reasons or any other
aspects of the case.


A senior State Department official admitted there had been a
"pretty healthy internal" debate over whether to let Lundy into
the country.


"People made the judgement that it was in our interest to issue
him the visa," he said.


The human rights group Human Rights Watch slammed the decision.


"Hok Lundy's alleged involvement in political violence and
organized crime in Cambodia means that the FBI should be
investigating him, not hosting him," said Brad Adams, Asia
director at Human Rights Watch.


"By inviting Hok Lundy to discuss the rule of law and effective
police enforcement, the US government is likely to breed cynicism
among Cambodians about its commitment to human rights and
political reform," he added.


The group said US authorities were turning a blind eye to Lundy's
involvement in human rights abuses because of his support for
President George W. Bush's "global war on terrorism."

