

England captain Michael Vaughan admitted that his humiliated team
had let thousands of fans down after crashing out of the World
Cup on Tuesday.


England, who have never won the world title, were bowled out for
just 154 by South Africa in their make-or-break Super Eights
clash at Kensington Oval before Graeme Smith's side reached their
target with more than 30 overs to spare.


It meant that South Africa booked their place in the semi-finals,
where they will probably meet defending champions in Australia,
while England will head home after their final match against West
Indies on Saturday to face some serious soul-searching.


"We were pretty average and we've let a lot of people down. We
have a lot of fans here," said Vaughan who again failed with the
bat making just 17 compared to Smith who blasted an unbeaten 89
off just 58 balls.


"Our batting has not been good and we know we need to improve. We
have a big game to play against West Indies here on Saturday but
we are out of the World Cup."


Vaughan said that the team must start planning for the summer
ahead with a Test series to play against the West Indies on home
soil.


"It's important that we analyse what went on here. We've had a
poor winter in all respects (England lost the Ashes 5-0). There
are positives - we've got some good young players coming through
but we have to make sure we learn from what has happened."


Smith had a day to remember.


Despite losing the toss, he won his personal duel with bitter
rival Kevin Pietersen by holding the catch that dismissed the
South Africa-born player for just three runs.


He then piled up the runs to steer his team into the last four.


"It has been a tough tour at times but I am really proud of the
way the guys stood up. We needed to regroup after the last game."


South Africa lost to New Zealand last time out and suffered a
shock defeat to Bangladesh.


They also went into Tuesday's game under a cloud after reports of
a late-night drinking binge following the New Zealand defeat in
Grenada.


Had they lost to England, they would have been knocked out of the
World Cup.


"Our motivation came from knowing what we can play like and how
we wanted to play. We hadn't achieved it so far and we wanted to
do it," added the captain.


"To bowl them out for 154 was a great effort."


South Africa's Andrew Hall was named man of the match for his
5-18 which ripped the heart out of the England innings.


"The guys are very determined to play well for ourselves and our
country and especially after all of the negative reports about us
at home," said Hall who revelled in the conditions to dismiss
Paul Collingwood, Andrew Flintoff, Paul Nixon, Sajid Mahmood and
James Anderson in quick succession.


"It was a bouncy wicket, they were South African type conditions
with the ball reversing towards the end.


"I think the guys in general have done exceptionally well. They
have been playing well. We spoke about wanting to peak the right
times.


"There were one or two games we would have wanted to have won to
get an easier road into the semis but no-one is going to complain
now."

