

US spy satellite photos indicate that North Korea may be
preparing to shut down a nuclear reactor, days after the
communist state missed an agreed disarmament deadline, news
reports said Tuesday.


The US satellites Monday spotted unusual movement of people and
vehicles near the cooling tower and parking lot at the Yongbyon
facility, which provides plutonium for nuclear weapons, South
Korea's Dong-A Ilbo newspaper said.


The United States and South Korea believed it was likely the
activities were part of operations to close down the reactor, as
required under a six-nation disarmament deal reached in February,
it said.


South Korea's National Intelligence Service (NIS) confirmed to
AFP that "unusual movements" had been spotted around the reactor
but could not say what they might mean.


"We have been closely watching the development," a spokesman for
the spy agency said.


In Washington, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said
Pyongyang had not formally informed the United States of moves to
shut down the reactor, but he declined to comment on the reported
activity at Yongbyon.


"We haven't received any formal notification from the North
Koreans that they are at this point taking steps to fulfill their
obligations under the Feb 13 agreements: shutting down and
sealing the Yongbyon plant," McCormack said.


"Beyond that, I can't comment on intelligence-related matters --
what we may or may not know," he told reporters.


The reports raised hopes that Pyongyang may be preparing to take
the first step agreed to in February, after an April 14 deadline
to close Yongbyon had lapsed due to a dispute over millions of
dollars frozen in a Macau bank.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon and US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice expressed a strong desire to see North
Korea carry out the measures stipulated in the February
agreement, Song's ministry said.


The ministers in a phone conversation agreed "to watch the
situation for a few more days," a ministry official said.


Song also talked by phone with Chinese counterpart Li Zhaoxing
and agreed to continue cooperation "for an early settlement" of
the dispute over the frozen funds, the official said.


The North insists it will begin shutting down and sealing
Yongbyon and readmit UN atomic inspectors once it has retrieved
25 million dollars in funds frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia
(BDA).


The United States, which orchestrated the freeze on suspicion of
money- laundering and counterfeiting, has said the funds were
freed for collection at BDA last week.


But there has been no word on when and how the transfer will be
made, although Rice and Song said that "the door for settling the
BDA problem remains open to North Korea."


That claim was disputed by fellow nuclear negotiator Russia,
whose Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Losyukov charged Monday
that Washington was "not removing the obstacles to using this
money and this is creating problems."


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso warned Tuesday that disputes
between the US, Macau and North Korea could continue "for a
while," saying all the problems in the talks were "about
financial technicalities."


McCormack again rejected the idea that Washington was holding up
North Korea's recovery of the funds, saying: "Any issues that
remain are between North Korea and their bankers."


He added that a decision this week by BDA to challenge the US
Treasury ruling that led to the sanctions against it should not
have any impact on North Korea's ability to recover its funds.


The spokesman said the US and its negotiating partners -- China,
Japan, Russia and South Korea -- had agreed to give the North "a
bit more time" to shut down Yongbyon, without revealing a
specific timeframe.


The six-party talks have dragged on since 2003 but assumed added
urgency after the North tested a nuclear weapon last October.


In February, Pyongyang agreed to disable its nuclear programmes
in exchange for one million tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid,
as well as security and diplomatic benefits.

