

Global warming is threatening Canada's harp seals, protesters
warned Thursday, calling for this year's annual cull to be
cancelled to spare seals already in peril from retreating ice.


"A large percentage of the seal pups born in the northwest
Atlantic this year are dying as their habitat is destroyed," said
Rebecca Alderworth, director of Canadian wildlife issues for the
US Humane Society.


"We cannot allow the survivors of this ecological disaster to be
slaughtered to produce fashion items," she said, estimating that
more than 260,000 pups had perished due to climate change.


The government acknowledged that seals were threatened by melting
ice and said it had delayed fixing hunting quotas for the animals
this year.


"Usually, we would have announced a hunt quota by now, but
because ice conditions are poor, we're taking our time (to review
data)," government fisheries spokesman Phil Jenkins told AFP.


"We've noticed that the ice over the past four or five years has
been deteriorating and this year it's giving us some concern,"
Jenkins said.


"We're seeing poor ice conditions (for breeding). So we can
expect a higher- than-average mortality of seal pups."


The hunt quota is likely to be reduced from the 335,000 seals
culled last year, he said.


Fisheries Minister Loyola Hearn has delayed announcing a quota as
government scientists explore the impact of thin ice in the
southern Gulf of St. Lawrence in eastern Canada on seal breeding.


Up to 20 percent of the herd usually nests on thick ice floes in
the region in February or March. But this year authorities and
animal rights groups found only slush or ice fragments too small
to support a newborn pup.


Animal rights groups meanwhile have been out in force, stripping
naked in front of Canada's parliament in freezing temperatures,
dousing themselves in red paint to protest the seal hunt and
holding press conferences.


"We're calling on the (government) to take a precautionary
approach and stop this year's hunt," said Toni Vernelli of
Greenpeace Canada.


"Continuation of the commercial seal hunt cannot be reconciled
with the longterm conservation of the harp seal -- an ice-
dependent species which is already suffering critical habitat
loss due to global warming."

