

Former captain Ramiz Raja said Thursday he feared for Pakistan's
cricket future following the death of coach Bob Woolmer and
Inzamam-ul-Haq's decision to resign as captain.


"All has gone haywire after the World Cup defeat. I fear for
Pakistan cricket but I hope it gets back on track," Raja, also a
former chief executive of the Pakistan Cricket Board, told AFP.


Raja is in the Caribbean as a television commentator watching at
close range the events unfold with Pakistan losing to the West
Indies in their first match and then crashing out of the
tournament following an upset three-wicket defeat by Ireland.


The disastrous defeat was, however, overshadowed by Woolmer's
death on Sunday, described as suspicious by Jamaican police after
the Pakistan coach was found unconscious in his hotel room.


Inzamam then chose to quit one-day cricket and relinquish the
captaincy.


He bid a tearful farewell following his team's consolation win
over Zimbabwe at Sabina Park on Wednesday.


Raja believes Pakistan will have major problems in finding a new
coach.


"After Woolmer's death, it will be difficult for Pakistan to find
a foreign coach and they will have to rely on former home
players," said Raja, who brought in Woolmer to counter the in-
fighting within the team.


Raja was PCB chief executive when, after Pakistan's 3-2 defeat in
the one-dayers and 2-1 in Tests against arch-rivals India in
2004, Woolmer replaced Javed Miandad.


"The whole idea behind bringing in Woolmer was to de-politicise
the infighting and build confidence in the team which had
evaporated as the team had divided into groups," explained Raja.


"I personally looked around and Bob was gracious enough to accept
the challenge. It's true that coaching Pakistan is more stressful
than any other team but Bob had accepted the challenge and, to
his credit, united the team."


Raja said that Woolmer did not get the right kind of support.


"There were times when Bob got frustrated over the lack of
support and there remained some flaws in the team - the opening
combination, for example, could not have been settled. Still, he
enjoyed Pakistan coaching."


South African fielding coach Jonty Rhodes believes Woolmer's
legacy should be cashed in on by Pakistan.


"He (Woolmer) did some remarkable things with Pakistan cricket
and I have seen good fielding talent in some of their youngsters.
The work Woolmer did should be carried on," said Rhodes, who
spent 15 days with the Pakistan team on Woolmer's invitation last
year.


"Some of the Under-19 and Pakistan A team players were good
fielders and they could be good additions. I noticed a vast
improvement under Bob," said Rhodes who played under Woolmer when
he coached South Africa between 1994-99.

