

The United States Thursday urged North Korea to honor pledges to
scrap its nuclear weapons program, despite a breakdown in talks
to end the program, blaming a "technical issue" for the collapse.


"We expect them to live up to their commitments but, at this
point, this is not an issue of American unwillingness. It's a
technical issue in terms of fund transferring," said White House
spokesman Tony Snow.


He was referring to demands for the return of 25 million dollars
of North Korean assets, which have been frozen in a Macau bank
since 2005 over US accusations of money laundering and
counterfeiting. Pyongyang's envoy to the nuclear negiotiations
has refused to talk until the money is transferred.


The issue has delayed efforts to implement a multinational deal
struck in February, under which the North would shut down its
nuclear programs and admit United Nations nuclear watchdog
inspectors in exchange for economic and diplomatic benefits.


The United States said it had struck a deal to release all the
assets frozen in the bank, Banco Delta Asia.


"In other words, we've done our part. So at this point it's a
technical issue," said Snow.


The money was not sent from Macau to a North Korean account in
Beijing as expected, leaving the envoys frustrated. The talks
then ended without agreement on Thursday after four days of
deadlock, with no date set for their resumption.


A statement released by host nation China on Thursday said the
six nations involved in talks on the nuclear issue remained
committed to implementing the February accord.


Under this deal, North Korea would shut its Yongbyon reactor
within 60 days of that agreement in return for 50,000 tonnes of
fuel aid.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said on Thursday that
the six nations -- the two Koreas, China, the United States,
Japan and Russia -- would likely meet again soon.


"They will probably get together again in the next week or two as
we get closer to the 60 days clock ... at the envoy level," he
said.


"The North Koreans continued to reaffirm their commitment to meet
the February goals" during earlier talks of representatives of
the six in Beijing, including the US top envoy Christopher Hill,
McCormack said.


"All the parties are optimistic about the process and being able
to meet the 60 days clock," he added.


Hill said on Thursday morning that the money transfer should not
have been a reason to hold up the talks. "This was a procedural,
form-filling issue," he said.

