

In July 2005, London was rocked by synchronised suicide attacks
on the public transport system which killed 56 people, including
the four bombers.


Here are the main facts about the blasts and the investigation
into them:


- THE ATTACKS: In the morning rush hour of July 7, four suicide
bombers exploded devices carried in rucksacks on three London
Underground trains and a bus.


In the worst attack, near Russell Square station in central
London, 26 people died. Seven died at Aldgate station to the
east, six at Edgware Road to the west and 13 were killed in a
blast on a Number 30 bus in Tavistock Square in the centre.


The total death toll, including the four bombers, was 56, while
some 700 people were injured.


- THE ATTACKERS: The four July 7 attackers, were all British
nationals:


Edgware Road: Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, the apparent ringleader,
was a teaching assistant of Pakistani origin and lived just
outside Leeds, northern England. He made repeated trips to
Pakistan where he is thought to have converted to an extreme form
of Islam.


Number 30 bus: Hasib Mir Hussain, 18, of Pakistani origin from
Leeds, became a devout Muslim just before his death. Wrote "Al-
Qaeda No Limits" on a schoolbook and openly supported the terror
network while still a student.


Aldgate: Shehzhad Tanweer, 22, a keen sportsman and former
university student, also of Pakistani origin and from Leeds. From
mid 2002, religion had become the main focus of his life.


Russell Square: Jermaine Lindsay, aged 19. Married with a young
child, he was born in Jamaica and converted to Islam as a young
man.


- THE CLAIMS: The attacks were apparently motivated by a
grievance about perceived injustices by Western countries against
Muslims.


One video emerged showing Tanweer, before his death, saying that
the blasts were "only the beginning" and that atrocities would
continue until Britain pulled its forces out of Afghanistan and
Iraq.


A similar film featuring Khan also appeared.


Groups linked to Al-Qaeda have claimed responsibility, although
it is not known if any of the bombers were directly linked to the
group.


- THE INVESTIGATION: The authorities took over 12,500 statements,
seized 142 computers and studied more than 6,000 hours of closed
circuit television footage.


No one has been charged in connection with the bombings.

