

The US government and airlines Thursday hailed the EU's adoption
of an "open skies" accord that allows more competition in
transatlantic aviation, especially at London's coveted Heathrow
Airport.


US Transportation Secretary Mary Peters said the approval by EU
transport ministers would boost "economic, political, and
personal relationships between our two continents for years to
come."


"Tearing down regulatory barriers allows us to foster more
affordable and convenient air travel and gives our airline
industry more opportunities to compete, innovate and thrive,"
Peters said in a statement.


Both sides hold out the promise of cheaper airfares and more
choice for passengers under the hard-fought agreement.


The European Union estimates it could generate more than 26
million extra passengers over the next five years and create
80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa. But EU airlines will still not be able to operate
domestic US routes.


As a result, Peters said, "this agreement will spur growth within
our aviation network and enhance the freedom of American fliers
to choose where and when they travel."


Unanimous EU agreement on the deal was possible only after
ministers overcame British reservations about competition out of
Heathrow, by delaying the date of application to the end of March
2008.


Currently, only British Airways and Virgin Atlantic of Britain,
and US carriers United Airlines and American Airlines are allowed
to fly between the United States and Heathrow -- Europe's busiest
airport.


British Airways grumbled that EU carriers had got a raw deal, but
the other transatlantic airlines that use Heathrow were more
positive.


"In the near term, we expect London Heathrow will become more
competitive and we are prepared to fully compete in that
environment," American Airlines spokesman Tim Wagner said.


United's chief executive, Glenn Tilton, said he also looked
forward to increased competition.


"This agreement represents a significant step toward much needed
global deregulation. Open markets create new opportunities for
United and will benefit consumers on both sides of the Atlantic,"
he said.


Continental Airlines, which now can only fly into London Gatwick,
lost no time in filing an application with Peters' department to
launch a new service from Houston to Heathrow by mid-2008.


"Our customers have always wanted more options for accessing
London, and the open skies agreement will allow us to give our
customers the convenience of choosing between Heathrow and
Gatwick for their London travel plans," Continental's chief
executive Larry Kellner said.


Delta Air Lines, which like Continental is confined to Gatwick
for its London routes, said before the EU ministers' decision
that it would press for "meaningful access" to Heathrow.


US airlines hope the pact will boost their recoveries from years
of turmoil. Delta and Northwest are still bankrupt. United's
parent group came out of bankruptcy just over a year ago.


The Air Transport Association (ATA), which represents leading US
airlines, said the EU pact heralded "much-desired increased
service between the United States and Europe."


"It has the potential to provide enormous benefits to our
respective customers and economies," ATA president James May
said.


The agreement would also lift restrictions on EU carriers buying
big stakes in US airlines, although their voting rights in a US
carrier would remain capped at 25 percent, much to the chagrin of
Britain.

