

European aerospace group EADS said Thursday it had deepened its
links with Russian counterpart UAC, which is to build parts of
the new family of Airbus A350 planes under a deal signed by the
companies.


State-owned UAC is to manufacture unspecified parts of the main
airframe of the A350 XWB, a mid-sized longhaul airliner that is
being developed by plane maker Airbus at a cost of 10 billion
euros (13 billion dollars).


The deal came after Russian airline Aeroflot pledged on Thursday
to order 22 A350s


In 2005, Airbus and Russia's Irkut Corp signed a letter of intent
for Irkut to participate in the development of the A350 on behalf
of UAC, which was being set up at the time.


Airbus, a unit of the European Aeronautic Defence and Space
Company (EADS), said UAC would take a 5.0-percent stake in the
development of the airframe of the A350.


"The discussions about which components of the aircraft will be
designed and built in Russia are still ongoing," EADS said.


The deal signed on Thursday will also lead to the creation an
EADS-UAC joint venture, based in Dresden, Germany, to convert
single-aisled Airbus A320s into cargo versions.


Freighter conversion centres for the A320 family of planes will
be set up in Lukhovitsy, near Moscow, and at the German site.


A further agreement "foresees a joint study of the transport
aircraft market and possible cooperation between EADS and the
Russian industry in this field."


And a final settlement opens the way for UAC to buy a
shareholding in an Airbus engineering centre in Russia.


Last year, the Russian state bought a stake of between 5.0-7.0
percent stake in EADS via state-controlled bank Vneshtorgbank
(VTB), sparking fears that the oil- rich country was seeking to
exert control over the strategic European company.


Airbus, a 100-percent unit of EADS, is in financial difficulty
after running into production problems with its giant A380
superjumbo project, which is about two years behind schedule.


The France-based group has said it wants to create risk-sharing
partnerships with suppliers to build 50 percent of the airframe
of the A350 and is targeting investment of 1.8 billion euros.

