

Top-tier Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards announced
Thursday his wife Elizabeth had suffered a recurrence of cancer
but vowed his 2008 White House campaign would go on.


"Her cancer is back," Edwards told reporters at a news conference
in North Carolina, adding that his wife's condition was
incurable, but could be treated and the couple were optimistic
about the future.


Asked whether he would be forced to suspend his campaign, as
earlier reported, Edwards answered : "No. The campaign goes on.
The campaign goes on strongly," he said.


The diagnosis for Elizabeth Edwards, 57, threw another intangible
element into the accelerating 2008 race, in which Edwards is
considered a top-tier candidate along with Democratic front-
runners Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.


Elizabeth Edwards was first diagnosed with breast cancer in
November 2004, as her husband, the former Democratic vice
presidential nominee slumped to an election defeat with running
mate Senator John Kerry to President George W. Bush.


Edwards, 53, broke off a campaign swing to Iowa to return to his
wife's side for a medical appointment earlier this week, amid
fears her health had taken a turn for the worse.


He said that a biopsy had shown that his wife had cancer in the
bone on a rib on her right side.


"It's largely confined in bone, which is a good thing," he said.
"We are very optimistic about this."


"Many patients in similar circumstances have lived many years
undergoing treatment. The thing that is true is that her cancer
will not be cured now. "Elizabeth will have this as long as she's
alive ... it's like a patient having diabetes.


Elizabeth Edwards, standing side-by-side with her husband of
nearly 30 years, before the cameras, added "we are going to look
at the silver lining. It is who we are as people," she said.


The former vice presidential nominee, a multi-millionaire former
trial lawyer, with folksy southern-style political skills, is
tucked in just behind the front- runners in national polls.


He is seen as a formidable contender in the key midwestern state
of Iowa, currently scheduled to hold its caucus nominating
contest for the Democratic nomination on January 14, 2008.


The caucus has long been a crucial test for presidential
candidates, but some experts believe it may be even more
important for a candidate to emerge with momentum in 2008, given
the compressed nominating calendar.


Edwards, who stepped down after one Senate term in 2004, is
making Iowa the cornerstone of his campaign, making repeated
trips to the state and setting up a formidable grass roots
organization.


For months, he led polls in the state, but in recent surveys has
seen his position overhauled by national front-runner Clinton.


His wife's new cancer scare is not the first time Edwards, has
been touched by heartache. In 1996 his 16-year-old son Wade was
killed in a freak car accident, a tragedy which prompted Edwards
to leave behind his life as a big earning lawyer and run for the
Senate.


Elizabeth Edwards underwent chemotherapy and radiation treatment,
but Edwards told ABC News last year that the only thing that
could derail his campaign was if "her health problems come back."


After his failed 2004 run for the White House, Edwards tacked
left, emerging as a champion of American workers who feel they
have been dispossessed by globalization and the flight of blue
collar jobs abroad.


He officially launched his bid in December, in the flood ravaged
city of New Orleans, setting the stage for a "grassroots ground-
up campaign."

