

Six senior Islamic militants will be hanged by April 19 after
Bangladesh's president rejected their final appeals for clemency,
officials said late Thursday.


The six, convicted of orchestrating a string of deadly nationwide
bombings, include Shaikh Abdur Rahman, leader of the outlawed
Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) and his deputy Siddiqul
Islam Bangla Bhai.


"We have received the president's rejection orders today. The six
will now be hanged between April 13 and 19," inspector general of
prisons Brigadier General Zakir Hassan told AFP.


Under Bangladesh law, a death row convict is hanged between 21
and 28 days after the president's rejection letter reaches jail
authorities, he said.


The six, whom police accuse of being members of JMB's decision-
making body, were condemned to death in May 2006 over bombings
that killed two judges in November 2005.


Authorities say the group was also behind 400 almost simultaneous
blasts that shook the country of 144 million people on August 17,
2005.


The attacks were part of a campaign of terror aimed at forcing
the country to replace the Muslim but secular country's legal
system, which dates back to the British colonial period, with
traditional Islamic, or sharia, law.


At least 28 people were killed and hundreds injured in the
blasts.


Following the attacks, the Bangladesh government mobilised
thousands of elite security personnel to track down the JMB
leaders, and nearly 1,000 JMB members were arrested.


At the time of their sentencing, the men said they would not
appeal, claiming they acted in the name of Islam.


Four later changed their minds and authorities treated letters
from Rahman and Islam justifying their actions also as pleas for
clemency.


A seventh man, also convicted over the November 2005 bombings and
sentenced, in absentia, to death, is on the run.


Some 30 people, including the seven in this case, have been
sentenced to death in connection with the JMB bombing campaign,
while 10 have received life terms of 40 years.


Twenty more have been sentenced to 20 years in jail, officials
said.

