

Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards said Thursday his
wife Elizabeth had suffered an incurable recurrence of cancer,
but the couple vowed not to halt his top-tier 2008 campaign.


"Her cancer is back," Edwards said at a news conference in North
Carolina, but though his wife will be cancer-ridden for life, he
said her condition could be treated and expressed optimism for
the future.


Asked about reports he would be forced to abandon his White House
dreams, Edwards answered : "No. The campaign goes on. The
campaign goes on strongly."


"You can go cower in the corner and hide or you can be tough and
go out there and stand up for what you believe in."


The diagnosis threw another intangible element into the
accelerating 2008 race, in which Edwards is one of the top three
Democratic candidates, polling just behind senators Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama.


Elizabeth Edwards, 57, who first announced she had breast cancer
in 2004, stood side-by-side with her husband of nearly 30 years,
and said : "we are going to look at the silver lining."


The campaign had to go on because : "there's nobody who's
offering people of this country a more positive and delineated
vision," she said.


"It's important that the American people have the opportunity to
have a president like him."


Edwards, 53, broke off a campaign swing to Iowa to return to his
wife's side for a medical appointment this week.


They discovered she had stage four breast cancer, meaning the
disease has spread beyond the breast to elsewhere in the body,
her doctor said.


A biopsy had shown the cancer was in a bone on a rib on her right
side.


"It's largely confined in bone, which is a good thing," Edwards
said. "We are very optimistic about this."


"Many patients in similar circumstances have lived many years
undergoing treatment.


"Her cancer will not be cured now ... Elizabeth will have this as
long as she's alive ... it's like a patient having diabetes."


Physician Lisa Carey said that while most concern centered on the
bone tumor, some other small spots were causing concern,
including in the lung.


In a first reaction, Clinton posted a photograph of John and
Elizabeth Edwards on the front of her website, along with a short
message : "Elizabeth is a wonderful, strong individual and my
thoughts and prayers are with her, John and their children during
this difficult time.


"I admire her optimism and strength in the face of adversity, and
I look forward to seeing them both on the campaign trail," said
the message, signed "Hillary."


White House spokesman Tony Snow, himself a cancer survivor, said
"our thoughts and prayers" were with Elizabeth Edwards.


"Elizabeth Edwards is setting a powerful example for a lot of
people, and a good and positive one."


Edwards, the 2004 defeated Democratic vice presidential nominee,
is a multi- millionaire former trial lawyer, with folksy
southern-style political skills, and is tucked in just behind
front-runners Clinton and Obama in national polls.


He is seen as a formidable contender in the key midwestern state
of Iowa, currently scheduled to hold its caucus for the
Democratic nomination on January 14, 2008 -- the first nominating
contest for the presidential ticket.


The Iowa caucus has long been a crucial bellwether for
presidential candidates. In 2008, some experts believe momentum
coming out of Iowa may be even more important, given the
compressed nominating calendar.


Edwards, who stepped down from the Senate term in 2004, is making
Iowa the cornerstone of his campaign.


For months, he led polls in the state, but recent surveys have
shown him slipping behind national front-runner Clinton.


His wife's new cancer scare is not the first time Edwards, has
been touched by heartache. In 1996 his 16-year-old son Wade was
killed in a freak car accident, a tragedy which prompted Edwards
to leave behind his life as a big earning lawyer and run for the
Senate.


Elizabeth Edwards underwent chemotherapy and radiation treatment
after her 2004 diagnosis. Edwards told ABC News last year that
the only thing that could derail his campaign was if "her health
problems come back."


After his failed 2004 run for the White House Edwards tacked
left, emerging as a champion of American workers who feel
dispossessed by the flight of blue collar jobs abroad.

