

Fighting erupted in the Democratic Republic of Congo capital
Thursday for the first time since last year, with army troops and
guards for an ex-vice president exchanging fire, officials said.


At least one person, a Belgian national, was reported injured,
said an official for the United Nations mission in the DRC
(MONUC).


"There are certainly other victims, but it is impossible to
verify right now," he added.


Shots were fired near the home of former vice president Jean-
Pierre Bemba, where tension has been high for several days since
the announcement that his military protection was to be scaled
down.


The sound of Kalashnikov assault rifle and machine-gun fire was
followed by that of rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs).


Government tanks were being deployed into the neighborhood, as a
MONUC officer said the exchanges had intensified.


Residents fled their homes, and the government ordered schools
and ministries closed.


"At first there was RPG fire, then a few mortar bombs and
artillery," another UN official said.


The tanks had been engaged, he added, but there was no indication
of any casualty toll.


MONUC began evacuating its personnel and any civilians in the
area, and in a statement appealed for an immediate end to the
fighting.


It called for both the government and Bemba, who was elected a
senator in January, to find a peaceful solution to the crisis,
adding that MONUC chief William Lacy Swing was in contact with
both sides.


Dozens of soldiers and UN armoured vehicles have been stationed
outside Bemba's residence in the northern Gombe district since
Tuesday amid fears of clashes with his security guards.


"Bemba's men stepped up their provocations this morning," a
security official said Thursday. "They left their perimeter (at
the residence) and were singing and dancing with red bands on
their heads in a sign of war."


As well as assault rifles, some carried spears and wore good-luck
charms.


A DRC military official said there was no immediate plan to expel
Bemba's forces, saying the objective was to secure the area.


But another Western official said the military was likely to try
to "finish with Bemba's men once and for all."


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice-presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition process ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Joseph Kabila was
inaugurated as president in December following a second round
victory over Bemba.


Both Bemba and Ruberwa oppose the withdrawal of their military
protection begun a few days ago. They say a guard of 12 police
officers assigned to them by presidential decree is insufficient.


In August and November of last year, clashes between the
military, police and Bemba's guards led to about 30 deaths.

