

Italy moved Thursday to fend off criticism from the United States
and European allies after the Afghan Taliban freed a kidnapped
Italian journalist in exchange for the release of militants.


Italian Foreign Minister Massimo d'Alema was to speak by
telephone with US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Thursday
after the United States, Britain and the Netherlands said the
swap could invite similar kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops
battling the Taliban.


All four countries have troops in Afghanistan, which has admitted
that a number of Taliban fighters were freed in exchange for the
liberation on Monday of Daniele Mastrogiacomo, war correspondent
of the daily La Repubblica.


D'Alema will seek "clarification after the criticism from an
anonymous source" at the US State Department, a foreign ministry
official told AFP.


Rome was "surprised" by the US criticism, the foreign ministry
official said, recalling a "very positive climate" during a
dinner meeting between D'Alema and Rice in Washington on Monday.


"It's not a new position, but rather the confirmation of a
traditional line that the American authorities have always taken
in hostage situations," another official added.


"Clearly there are different sensitivities. We take note of
legitimate positions and we have no intention to comment," he
said.


Mastrogiacomo was held for two weeks by the Taliban militia.


A US official, speaking on condition of anonymity Wednesday, said
the swap increased the risk of kidnappings of troops in the NATO-
led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) as well as
their Afghan partners.


"It is US policy to use every appropriate resource to gain the
safe return of hostages, but to make no concessions to
individuals or groups holding those hostages," the official said,
adding that the United States "did not and do not approve of
concessions to terrorists."


"In this case, these concessions caught the US by surprise," the
official added, saying Washington had "communicated those
concerns" to Rome through diplomatic channels.


The Italian foreign ministry late Wednesday denied receiving any
such communication.


In London, a spokeswoman for Britain's Foreign Office told AFP:
"The UK has serious concerns about the implications of releasing
Taliban in return for hostages. She added: "This sends the wrong
signal to prospective hostage- takers."


Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen, on a visit to Kabul on
Wednesday, said: "When we create a situation where you can buy
the freedom of Taliban fighters when you catch a journalist, then
in the short term there will be no journalists anymore."


La Repubblica asked in an editorial on Thursday: "But why didn't
the American administration immediately oppose the idea of
freeing these (Taliban) prisoners? It's not unreasonable to think
that the United States made a choice of realpolitik."


Leading political analyst Sergio Romano told AFP: "The death of
the journalist would have seen an earthquake within the (centre-
left) coalition" of Prime Minister Romano Prodi.


The issue of Italy's 2,000-strong contingent in Afghanistan --
fiercely opposed by the far left -- briefly brought down the
government last month.


La Repubblica's editorial noted that had the episode ended in
tragedy the government would be unable to keep its troops in
Afghanistan.


"For an America already weak on the international stage," keeping
the ISAF coalition together in Afghanistan "trumped everything
else," it said.


A vote on refunding the mission is set in the Senate -- where
Prodi enjoys only a two-seat majority -- next week.


Italy's defence ministry agreed with the US position, according
to press reports. Defence Minister Arturo Parisi said that a
"dangerous precedent" had been set by the deal, Corriere della
Sera reported.


Since Prodi came to power in May last year, US-Italian relations
have suffered several strains including the opening of
proceedings against 26 US intelligence agents for the 2003
kidnapping of an Egyptian imam in Milan and the killing by a US
marine of Italian secret service agent Nicola Calipari.

