

Here are this week's lifestyle briefs:


WASHINGTON: It has all the ingredients of a wedding. The proud
tuxedo-clad father, the frosted white cake, the limousines and an
exchange of vows.


But there is no groom and the girl in the long gown is no bride.
She's daddy's little girl, there to take a vow of chastity.


In what is becoming a trend among conservative Christians in the
United States, girls as young as nine are pledging to their
fathers to remain virgins until they wed, in elaborate ceremonies
dubbed "Purity Balls."


The highlight of the gala affairs is when the fathers and
daughters exchange vows, with dad signing a covenant to protect
his daughter's chastity by living an unblemished life and the
daughter promising not to have sex until marriage.


(AFP)


SALMON, Idaho: Baptisms are sometimes carried out in a horse
trough, hymns are often accompanied by a banjo and the
congregation places donations in a leather boot. Welcome to
church-going -- cowboy-style.


The Lemhi River Cowboy Church in Idaho is part of a growing
movement in the American West that seeks to rope a traditionally
non-churchgoing group -- cattlemen, horsemen, rodeo riders --
into weekly Christian worship.


Non-denominational cowboy churches are cropping up in remote
stretches of Arizona, Idaho and Texas in a trend Christian
ministers say is re-evangelizing a region known for its
religious, political and cultural independence.


"It's a boots and jeans crowd," says the Reverend Mike Palmer,
the Southern Baptist behind the Lemhi River Cowboy Church.


(AFP)


TOKYO: For people who want their lives to be faster and their
energy bills lower, a Japanese company has unveiled a washing
machine that twists and turns and is billed to be the quickest in
the world.


Mitsubishi Electric said it has made the first machine that
changes angles automatically depending on the volume of clothes
and function.


The "Moving Drum" machine can wash nine kilograms (20 pounds) of
clothes in 35 minutes and dry six kilograms in 145 minutes --
half the time of a traditional washer.


"It's not only about saving time for users but also saving
energy," said company spokesman Kazuhiko Mizuno.


The slant also means that clothes will not stick onto the walls
as in a normal machine, the company said.


(AFP)


HANOVER, Germany: As television sets grow to mammoth proportions
and computers gobble energy at work and at home, the consumer
electronics industry is slowly coming around to the idea of
ecology to stay competitive.


Executives at the world's biggest high-tech fair here said that
while they were not yet leaders in the fight against global
warming, they hoped that more efficient products would appeal to
cost- and environment-conscious consumers.


"Caring for the environment is our objective," the Advanced
Plasma Development Centre (APDC) alliance comprised of three
Japanese manufacturers of flat-screen televisions, Hitachi,
Panasonic and Pioneer, proclaimed.


At its CeBIT stand, two televisions were displayed: on the left,
a plasma screen and on the right, a liquid crystal display (LCD),
each with a gauge of electricity use. The plasma read 171 watts
versus 269 watts for the LCD.


"More and more consumers are asking about how much energy the
products consume, just like with refrigerators," said Hitachi
product manager Jacob Teodorsson.


(AFP)


HUALAPAI INDIAN RESERVATION, Arizona: A gleaming glass-bottomed
walkway that juts out over the edge of the Grand Canyon welcomed
its first visitors this week, with Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz
Aldrin taking one small step for man and one almighty leap for
sufferers of vertigo.


The Skywalk is a horseshoe-shaped observation deck extending 70
feet (21 meterrs) over the western lip of the vast natural chasm
in the remote Hualapai Indian Reservation, about 120 miles (193
kilometers) east of Las Vegas, Nevada.


It allows tourists to peer straight down a dizzying 4,000 feet
(1,220 meters) to the canyon floor below through four-inch-
(10-centimeter-) thick reinforced glass.


"It felt wonderful," said Aldrin, the second man to set foot on
the moon after Neil Armstrong in the 1969 mission, after
strolling around the walkway with members of the Hualapai tribe.
"Not exactly floating on air or walking in space, but it was
wonderful. It wasn't the least bit disturbing -- at least not for
some of us."


(AFP)


SYDNEY: Health authorities have moved to rein in "Botox cowboys"
who stage parties where cosmetic surgery injections are offered
along with cocktails.


The booze and Botox bashes were replacing old-style Tupperware
parties where women were offered kitchenware, said New South
Wales state Health Minister John Hatzistergos.


"It is important that we should protect consumers and do
something about ensuring these Botox cowboys are put out of
business," Hatzistergos said.


"The sort of deceptive advertising, the before and after shots,
the promotion of these sorts of treatments in social settings
where people are drinking alcohol and not in a position to be
able to make informed decisions, are totally inappropriate."


(AFP)


PARIS: A Chinese man spent a record 23,000 euros (30,700 dollars)
on wine and spirits at the duty free store at Paris's Charles de
Gaulle airport this week.


The man, an artist from Canton, bought a 1945 Mouton Rothschild
for 13,800 euros, an 1806 Cognac that cost 5,000 euros and
several other bottles. He then boarded a flight for Beijing, the
Paris airports authority (ADP) said.


"He's a collector of rare bottles who knows us here very well. He
comes once or twice a year. This time he asked us to find some
prize vintages from post-1960. He'll be back," said Linda Chong,
the sales assistant who supervised the purchase.


(AFP)


LISBON: Portugal's Renova, one of Europe's biggest producers of
household paper products, has put a diamond-encrusted toilet
paper holder on sale for 100,000 euros (132,000 US dollars).


The one-of-a-kind gold-plated box was made entirely by hand by
traditional jewellers in Lisbon who encrusted its logo plate with
148 diamonds to mark the worldwide sale of one million rolls of
the firm's novelty black toilet paper.


The box weighs almost one kilogram (4.4 pounds) and it "gives
toilet paper a lofty status it never enjoyed before," the company
said in a statement.


Whoever buys the luxury toilet paper holder will receive one roll
of Renova's black toilet paper per day for their rest of their
lives.


(AFP)

