

A UN plan proposing Kosovo's supervised independence was a
"unique opportunity" to ensure stability in the fragile Balkans,
French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Thursday.


"France fully supports this project. It represents a unique
opportunity to ensure stability in Kosovo and the whole region,"
Douste-Blazy told reporters during a visit to the ethnic Albanian
majority province of Serbia.


The plan presented by United Nations special envoy Martti
Ahtisaari was "a balanced solution, reconciling the aspirations
of Kosovo's majority population with serious guarantees offered
to the Serb community and other minorities," said the French
minister.


"The international military and civilian presence together with
Kosovo authorities also represents a strong guarantee for all
communities" in the province, said Douste-Blazy.


Under the plan, Kosovo would be granted all the trappings of
statehood, while minority Serbs would enjoy a high degree of
autonomy. The new status would be monitored European Union and
NATO.


Douste-Blazy appealed to Kosovo Serbs to "seize the opportunity
offered to them."


"The international community will neither accept the partition of
Kosovo nor any violation of the new status both from the
Albanians and the Serbs," he said.


Earlier this month, Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials failed
to agree on future self-rule for Kosovo after more than a year of
UN-backed talks.


Belgrade and Kosovo Serbs rejected the independence of the
province, instead calling for more negotiations.


But Kosovo Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's
population of two million, accepted the plan, rejecting any links
with Belgrade.


"It's wrong to expect that delays ... would bring closer the
positions of Pristina and Belgrade. Thus, every extension will
only impede the process," Kosovo Prime Minister Agim Ceku said
after meeting Douste-Blazy.


His statement was supported by the French foreign minister, who
said the two sides "had enough time to express" their stances.


From Kosovo, Douste-Blazy will visit Belgrade for talks over
Ahtisaari's plan with the Serbian leadership.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombings helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider Ahtisaari's proposal following the failure of
negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians.

