

British Transport Secretary Douglas Alexander on Thursday hailed
an EU-US "open skies" deal to free up the transatlantic aviation
market, which he said ended "arcane restrictions" under an
existing US-Britain accord.


Backing away from previous reservations, Alexander joined his 26
EU counterparts in approving the agreement at a meeting on
Thursday in Brussels, removing a major obstacle to the pact's
implementation.


"This agreement will bring new opportunities for UK airlines and
new benefits for UK passengers," he said in a statement made
available in Brussels.


Britain had deep reservations about the deal because it would
lift restrictions on the number of airlines which can operate
profitable transatlantic flights from Heathrow airport outside
London.


Under a 30-year-old British-US agreement known as Bermuda II,
only British Airways, Virgin Atlantic of Britain and US carriers
United Airlines and American Airlines are currently allowed to
fly from Heathrow to the United States.


"The ending of the arcane restrictions of the Bermuda II
agreement -- such as the prohibition on flying from Heathrow to
the state of Texas -- will allow UK airlines to streamline their
operations to better reflect the needs of the market," Alexander
said.


"And the end of the restrictions on the number of carriers at
Heathrow will allow new competition on UK-US routes, unlocking
significant consumer benefits," he added.


The ministers slipped in a clause that could see the US traffic
rights suspended if there were no progress in a second round of
negitations to remove remaining barriers by 2010, providing a
powerful bargaining chip.


"This means that I have ensured that the UK will have the right
-- in 2010 -- to re-impose some or all of the restrictions that
US carriers face today," Alexander said.


"I hope very much that this will not be necessary. But this sends
a very clear signal to the US that we are serious about making
early progress to a second stage deal, and reflects that UK
carriers' concerns have been listened to by us."

