

Zimbabwe sought to shore up faltering African support Thursday as
global pressure intensified on President Robert Mugabe over his
government's draconian crackdown on opposition leaders.


The worsening political and economic crisis in Zimbabwe, and the
ensuing international outcry, has prompted some African leaders
to break with their traditional policy of "quiet diplomacy" with
Mugabe's regime.


And Zimbabwe's former colonial power Britain, one of Mugabe's
most vocal critics, upped the ante Thursday, saying it was
already preparing to work with a new administration in Harare.


"We're beginning to think about what we could contribute
following a transition and we're preparing support options
including economic and humanitarian activity," a spokeswoman for
Britain's foreign office said.


In a bid to rally African leaders around, Zimbabwean Information
Minister Sikhanyiso Ndlovu on Thursday warned them against being
"divided by imperialism."


"The West and the Western news networks are demonising Zimbabwe,
giving a one- sided perspective," he said.


The Zimbabwean government castigated what it described as an
"orchestrated campaign of malicious falsehoods" by US news
channel CNN.


"This campaign, now in its third week, is driven by one-sided
editorial hysteria and blatant lies about the country, its
leadership and government in order to mislead international
opinion on and build hostility against Zimbabwe," the government
said in a statement.


"Indeed CNN's editorial hostility echoes the American
administration's policy of 'regime change' through illegal and
pernicious sanctions designed to hurt Zimbabwe's economy and
build disaffection among the populace," the Zimbabwe government
said.


African leaders have in the past closed ranks around Mugabe, but
the cracks are beginning to show.


Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa this week likened Zimbabwe to a
"sinking Titanic" in need of help, and urged southern African
nations to get involved.


The African Union, too, voiced concern, with chairman John Kufuor
describing the situation as "embarrassing."


Amnesty International accused the African Union and the rest of
the international community of having failed to hold Zimbabwe to
account.


"What more do we need to witness before the African Union or the
UN tell the Zimbabwean government 'enough is enough'?" the
London-based rights body's Africa programme director Kolawole
Olaniyan wrote in The Guardian.


The spotlight has fallen mainly on South Africa, the regional
powerhouse, over its policy of "quiet diplomacy" towards its
northern neighbour.


Having itself relied on foreign pressure to bring an end to the
former whites- only apartheid regime, South Africa insists that
Zimbabwe be allowed to chart its own destiny.


While expressing concern about the "deteriorating situation"
since Mugabe's government launched the crackdown that saw
opposition leaders arrested and beaten, Pretoria has refrained
from outright condemnation of Harare.


"We will do everything possible to get the parties around a table
for dialogue," South African government spokesman Themba Maseko
told AFP on Thursday. "There are a lot of things we are doing,
but at this stage we are not able to say what."


The United States and Britain are leading the international
chorus of criticism against the 83-year-old Mugabe, who has ruled
Zimbabwe since independence in 1980, and have threatened to
broaden sanctions against him and his inner circle.


Zimbabwe's current economic crisis, largely blamed on Mugabe's
policies, has been characterised by an inflation rate of 1,730
percent, shortages of basic commodities and fuel, and an 80
percent unemployment rate.

