

French police denied press reports on Thursday that alleged they
were aware of a vast kickback scheme used by European aerospace
group EADS to secure orders in the United Arab Emirates and
Libya.


A report in French magazine L'Express claimed that 90 million
dollars (68 million euros) had been transferred overseas in
connection with aircraft sales in the two countries.


The magazine said that the French DST domestic intelligence
services were aware and had informed the office of President
Jacques Chirac of the scheme.


French police, in a statement issued by the national authority,
"categorically deny information ... according to which the DST
was aware of a kickback system in EADS."


"This service has never received information of this nature
likely to place suspicion on the company or one of its
executives."


In a brief statement, EADS said it "takes note of the denial" by
the police which it claimed "highlights the inaccuracy of the
information reported by L'Express." It said it reserved its
rights to take legal action.


French media and defence group Lagardere, a key shareholder in
EADS, denounced the "untrue allegations" as "an attempt to
destabilise EADS."


L'Express claimed that money had been funelled through a Tunisian
bank account during the sale of 40 A380 superjumbo jets to the
UAE-based Emirates airline and during another sale of 32 Airbus
planes to Libya.


The French presidency denied another press report on Thursday, by
French business magazine Capital, which claimed that the co-chief
executive of EADS and head of Airbus, Louis Gallois, had been
summoned to discuss information obtained by the DST.


"The presidency of the Republic categorically denies information
according to which the Elysee (president's office) has summoned
Mr Louis Gallois to discuss a note from the DST," the French
presidency said.


A report on the website of Capital had claimed that Gallois had
been called to discuss "a confidential note from the DST raising
the idea of a slush fund which had been used for several years to
pay commissions in connection with big export contracts."


Airbus has suffered a torrid 12 months owing to major production
problems with its A380 superjumbo plane which is two years behind
schedule.


The biggest client for the A380 is Emirates, which has ordered 43
of the 555-seat aircraft, the world's biggest civilian airliner.


Production problems have led to delays and Airbus slumped to an
operating loss last year under the weight of increased
manufacturing costs, compensation payments and restructuring.


The group has announced plans to slash 10,000 jobs across Europe
in the next four years and re-organise its factory network in an
attempt to save 5.0 billion euros by 2010 and 2.1 billion euros
per year thereafter.

