

"One explosion killed four of my eight children yesterday. Four
are still alive, but my daughter is wounded," mourned 30-year-old
Isha Abdi, lying in bed in Mogadishu's main hospital.


Her six-year-old daughter Habiba, her head covered in a blood-
soaked bandage, slept alongside her.


Patients spilled out of the Medina hospital on Thursday, with
some lying outside, after an influx of more than 170 casualties
in less than 48 hours following fierce fighting between Somali-
Ethiopian troops and insurgents across the capital.


All the wounded had been hit by bullets or shrapnel from mortar
shelling.


On a second straight day of clashes, now spreading to the
previously calm north of the capital, tanks and jeeps carrying
heaving machine guns moved across major avenues, carrying
soldiers on hair-trigger alert.


The factional bloodletting that has wracked Somalia since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre has created a platform
for a civil war that has defied more than 14 peace-making
attempts.


"Shootings don't scare us anymore," the manager of one of
Mogadishu's last hotels said with an air of resignation. "After
all this fighting, all these deaths, we are kind of used to
that."


However, a day after deadly violence which saw at least 21 killed
and lynched soldiers dragged and burned in the streets, many
terrified residents decided to finally flee the volatile city.


"The worst decision is to stay one more day in Mogadishu," said
mother-of-six Amina Sabriye.


According to a UN report, more than 40,000 people have fled the
capital in the past month.


Around the hotel, all shops are closed, passers-by are a rarity;
a few venture out to get supplies but that means a long walk in
the scorching heat due to a lack of public transport.


Nevertheless city mayor Mohamed Hassan Ali tried to be positive
about the future, after the government on Wednesday vowed to
drive out the insurgents and disarm civilans.


"Next week we'll be in control of the whole city of Mogadishu.
Somali troops and the police are ready and the African Union is
here," he said.


But the some 1,500 Ugandan troops forming the vanguard of a
proposed 8,000-strong African Union force remain cautious and
rarely venture into the streets of the capital, home to about one
million people.


"We are not a force to enforce peace, we are a stabilisation
force to support the transitional institutions of Somalia," Paddy
Ankunda, spokesman for the Ugandan troops, told AFP.


He said they were not involved in recent fighting with
insurgents, many believed to be Islamists, who fire mortar shells
on a near daily basis which claim many civilian victims as well
as soldiers.


Medics at Medina hospital, one of the few functional facilities
here, said they were struggling to keep up with the wounded.


"We have too many wounded, it is very hard, too many fightings,
too many shootings, we don't have enough beds," said Muhubo
Hussein, a nurse wearing an Islamic veil.


One wounded soldier, Said Adem, 25, said he was hit in
Wednesday's fighting.


"The bullet is still here in my lung and I can hardly breathe,
but I hope I'll be fine," he said.

