

Deposed media baron Conrad Black's lawyer attacked the man who
helped oust him as incompetent and riddled with conflicts of
interest at a fraud trial here Thursday.


"You had no knowledge or understanding of running a newspaper
company," Edward Greenspan said in a question to Gordon Paris,
who took over as president and chief executive officer of
Hollinger International after Black was ousted by the board.


"You knew nothing about monitoring advertising... you knew
nothing about how editorial product could be improved ... you
knew nothing about streamlining production processes?" Greenspan
asked in a series of questions which Paris answered in the
affirmative.


Paris was an investment banker when Black asked him to join the
board of Hollinger International, which was once the third
largest newspaper company in the world with titles such as the
Daily Telegraph in London, the Jerusalem Post and the Chicago
Sun-Times.


When shareholders raised concerns about the non-compete payments
for which Black is currently being tried on fraud and
racketeering charges, Paris was appointed to head a special
committee to investigate the payments.


Prosecutors are not allowed to introduce the conclusions of the
special committee -- which dubbed Hollinger a "corporate
kleptocracy" and claimed that more than 95 percent of the
company's net income was lost in bonuses to senior executives
between 1997 and 2003 -- but were able to show the jury that
Black was ousted after the committee investigated him.


Black's defense team argued in opening statements Tuesday that
these bonuses were justified and approved by the board of
directors and that it was Black, not Hollinger, who was robbed
after a group of shareholders insisted on an expensive
investigation and removed him from the company he had built from
the ground up.


Questioning Paris, Greenspan tried to show that Black was a
responsible executive who hired independent board members.


But Paris refused to agree that the board members he worked with,
including former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger, were not
"push-overs."


"I don't know the specific relationship he had with Mr. Black so
I can't comment on that," Paris said, while acknowledging that
Kissinger was "an accomplished individual."


Black faces a maximum of 101 years in jail on charges of fraud,
obstruction of justice, racketeering and tax evasion.


Also charged in the case are Jack Boultbee, the chief financial
officer of Toronto-based subsidiary Hollinger Inc; Peter
Atkinson, general counsel for Hollinger Inc; and Mark Kipnis,
corporate counsel for Hollinger International.


All four men have pleaded not guilty.

