

A march against child trafficking along the border towns of
India, Nepal and Bangladesh where the problem is rampant drew to
a close in New Delhi on Thursday with a gathering of 2,000
children and their parents.


"Unless we reach out to ordinary people it is not possible to
tackle problems like trafficking, which is a form of human
slavery," Kailash Satyarthi, one of the march organisers, told
AFP in the capital.


"We have covered almost the entire border so we have gone through
practically all the major areas of trafficking in South Asia."


The band of 150 marchers, which included rescued children who had
been trafficked, travelled thousands of kilometres (miles)
through the remote border towns via which children are brought
into India from Nepal and Bangladesh.


Satyarthi, founder of the India-based Bachpan Bachao Andolan
(Save Childhood Association) which fights against child labour,
said he found "a very serious lack of understanding about
trafficking, a serious lack of awareness."


Villagers told Satyarthi that they believed the people who
travelled frequently through their communities with kids in tow
were family members of the children.


Townspeople pledged to pay more attention to such travellers and
notify authorities, he said.


The march closed with a rally near India's parliament that drew
some 2,000 people from around the capital, a good portion of them
children accompanied by their parents.


Satyarthi estimated that some three million of India's child
workers had been trafficked, selling for as little as 200 to 500
rupees (11 dollars) a head.


Government figures say there are almost 13 million child workers
under the age of 14 in the country.


In a sign of how deeply entrenched the problem is, some child
labourers are born in bondage to those who were trafficked
decades earlier.


Twelve-year-old Devli, from India's western Rajasthan state and
among the marchers, described her experience in bonded labour in
a statement from the anti-child labour group.


"My grandparents were trafficked to work in the stone quarries.
My parents were born in the stone quarries. I did not know life
beyond the stone quarry," she said.


"When I was rescued I was given a banana. I had never seen a
banana in my life before and thought it was a kind of potato."


In the course of their work, the group has come across children
as young as six being trafficked for domestic work.


Children in India are trafficked mainly for bonded labour,
including in the sex trade, in brick kilns and stone quarries and
as camel jockeys.

