

Russia cemented new ties with European aerospace group EADS on
Thursday, winning a slice of production work on the new Airbus
A350 plane after placing a vast order for new aircraft.


EADS said that Russia's UAC holding company, which brings
together civil and military plane makers, would manufacture
unspecified parts of the main air frame of the A350 XWB, a mid-
sized longhaul airliner that is being developed by Airbus at a
cost of 10 billion euros (13 billion dollars).


Airbus is wholly owned by the European Aeronautic Defence and
Space Company (EADS), a giant aerospace group which is controlled
by public and state-linked French and German shareholders.


"The discussions about which components of the aircraft will be
designed and built in Russia are still ongoing," EADS said.


The deal came after Russian airline Aeroflot pledged on Thursday
to order 22 A350s, following more than a year of uncertainty over
whether it would buy from Airbus of from US rival Boeing.


A statement by Aeroflot confirming the purchase did not reveal
the value of the contract, but at catalogue prices the order is
worth about 5.0 billion dollars (3.7 billion euros).


Airbus will welcome the Russian order, which comes amid painful
restructuring at the European plane maker.


The tie-up with UAC (United Aircraft Corporation) will help split
the heavy costs of developing the A350.


Airbus has said it wants to create risk-sharing partnerships with
suppliers to build 50 percent of the air frame of the A350 and is
targeting investment of 1.8 billion euros.


But the step may also renew French and German concerns about oil-
rich Russia's growing influence.


Worries emerged last Septmeber after the Russian state
accumulated 5.02 percent of EADS via state-controlled bank
Vneshtorgbank (VTB).


This prompted President Vladimir Putin to say that Russia wanted
"cooperation" with EADS and had no plans for a "hostile take-
over."


As well as sharing production of the A350, the deal between UAC
and EADS will lead to the creation of a joint venture based in
Dresden, Germany, to convert single-aisled Airbus A320s into
cargo versions.


Freighter conversion centres for the A320 family of planes will
be set up in Lukhovitsy, near Moscow, and at the German site.


And a final settlement opens the way for UAC to buy a
shareholding in an Airbus engineering centre in Russia.


Airbus is in financial difficulty after running into production
problems with its giant A380 superjumbo project, which is about
two years behind schedule.


Despite delivering a record 434 aircraft last year, Airbus made
an operating loss of 572 million euros in 2006 compared with a
profit of 2.3 billion euros in 2005.


This has prompted the group to launch a vast restructuring
programme which foresees the loss of 10,000 jobs across Europe in
the next four years and a major re-organisation of the Airbus
factory network.


Airbus has targeted cost savings of 5.0 billion euros by 2010 and
2.1 billion euros per year thereafter.


The A350 XWB project was launched by Airbus at the end of last
year to produce a mid-sized longhaul rival to the future Boeing
787 Dreamliner. The first A350 is scheduled to enter service in
2013.


Ahead of Aeroflot's announcement of its purchase of 22 Airbus
planes, chief executive Valery Okulov had said that the company
would also buy about a dozen Airbus A330 jets. These would be
delivered before the A350s, he said.


Aeroflot said last month that negotiations with Boeing on buying
the 787 Dreamliner jets had been frozen.

