

British police arrested three men on Thursday in connection with
the July 7, 2005 attacks on the London transport network which
killed 56, including the four suicide bombers.


Two men, aged 23 and 30, were arrested shortly before 1:00 pm
(1300 GMT) at Manchester Airport, north-west England, as they
were about to board a flight to Pakistan, the Metropolitan Police
said in a statement.


A third, aged 26, was arrested at a house in Leeds, northern
England, shortly after 4:00 pm (1600 GMT).


Three of the suicide bombers who wreaked rush-hour carnage on
London were from the area around Leeds.


The arrested men were detained on suspicion of the "commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism" under the
Terrorism Act 2000, police said.


They were being taken to a central London police station where
they will be kept in custody before being interviewed by officers
from the Metropolitan Police's Counter-Terrorism Command.


Searches are being carried out at five houses in the Leeds area
as well as at a flat and separate business premises in east
London in what Scotland Yard called "a pre-planned, intelligence-
led operation".


Fifty-two people were killed when four Islamist extremist suicide
bombers -- three of them Britons of Pakistani origin and one a
naturalised Jamaican -- set off devices on three London
Underground trains and a double-decker bus.


The attack, at the height of rush hour, also injured more than
700 in what was the worst-ever terrorist atrocity on British
soil.


The police statement said that detectives had continued the
investigation both at home and abroad since the bombings.


"This remains a painstaking investigation with a substantial
amount of information being analysed and investigated," it added.


"As we have said previously, we are determined to follow the
evidence wherever it takes us to identify any other person who
may have been involved, in any way, in the terrorist attacks.


"We need to know who else, apart from the bombers, knew what they
were planning. Did anyone encourage them? Did anyone help them
with money, or accommodation?" the statement said.


Police said no further details of the men arrested would be
released.

