

Spain's conservative opposition on Thursday accused the
government of pressuring the judiciary to drop charges against
pro-independence Basque leader Arnaldo Otegi.


The prosecution had been calling for a jail term of 15 months for
Otegi, the spokesman for Batasuna, the banned political wing of
separatist group ETA, for "glorifying terrorism". But on
Wednesday it retracted the charges.


Angel Acebes, secretary general of the right-wing opposition
Popular Party (PP), said that the decision was "a scandal, a
disgrace, which goes too far", adding: "It is the worst path to
take."


PP spokesman for the northern Basque country Leopoldo Barreda
said the Socialist government "has done everything it could to
clear Otegi".


The opposition accuses the government of trying to find a way to
get Batasuna back into the May 27 municipal elections, from which
it is barred under a 2003 court ruling over its alleged links to
ETA.


On Wednesday, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
told parliament that all parties hoping to field candidates in
May's polls must "strictly respect the law to the letter".


He was responding to a question from PP leader Mariano Rajoy
about what measures were in place to prevent Batasuna taking
part.


"Nobody would understand if a terrorist organisation goes to the
polls," Rajoy said.


The government says Batasuna, which the EU and the US State
Department consider a terrorist organisation along with ETA, must
clearly renounce violence before its participation could be
considered.


Batasuna has been distancing itself from ETA ever since the
group's attack at Madrid airport in December last year which
killed two people and broke the "permanent ceasefire" declared
exactly a year ago on Thursday.


On Tuesday, Otegi said it would be "an error" to pursue
independence through violence, saying he supported achieving the
goal through "democratic means", but he did not condemn ETA
violence.


In 2005, Otegi was given a one-year suspended sentence for
calling King Juan Carlos "chief torturer" of the Basques, and is
currently appealing a 15-month suspended sentence handed down
last year for paying tribute to an ETA member.

