

The first gamers outside the United States to get their hands on
Sony's PlayStation 3 were thin on the ground on Thursday as the
much hyped launch of the new games console got underway.


Stores in Australia and New Zealand were the first to open their
doors to eager gamers before European shops broke open the seals
at midnight Thursday.


Organisers had predicted that thousands of gaming fans would turn
out to snatch up the first of the next-generation units that were
given a glitzy launch at Sydney's Myers Department Store.


In the end, just 65 excited gamers queued outside Myers
department store for around four hours, before being allowed
inside where they barely outnumbered staff and publicists.


Nevertheless, advertising sales executive Danny Zarka, 31, said
the midnight wait had been worth it.


"I was really thrilled to be the first one to get my hands on
this baby before anyone else," he told AFP as he clutched his
spanking new PS3 console.


"It's going to be a sleepless night, but I haven't scheduled any
meeting for early tomorrow," he added before heading home.


The launch of the PS3 in Japan and the United States back in
November had resulted in a consumer frenzy that resulted in
punch-ups and at least one shooting.


Sony and major retailers had talked up the long-delayed launch in
Australasia and Europe, but there has been speculation that the
PS3's hefty price tag might deter consumers.


The PS3 does not come cheap, costing 599 euros (800 dollars) in
Europe and 425 pounds (836 dollars/626 euros) in Britain.


The PS3 has been outsold by rival Nintendo's Wii machine and
Microsoft's XBox 360 in the United States.


Outside the Virgin Megastore's flagship outlet in London, diehard
gamers had camped for 36 hours to be first in line for the
release.


Steve Lynn, the Megastore's senior public relations manager, told
AFP that the consoles were "in a secure location within the
building locked up waiting for midnight."


Game, Britain's largest video games retailer, said it had ruled
out a special midnight event following discussions with police
over crowd safety.


"The launch of the PS3 is a big deal to our customers," said the
chain's marketing director Anna Macario.


"We are managing the launch so it is safe for them, and the only
thing they have to concentrate on is securing their new console."


In France, a special boat was due to ferry 1,000 PS3s along the
Seine to the foot of the Eiffel Tower, where enthusiasts will
brave the chilly Parisian night to get their hands on a console.


In Berlin, Robert Stoeller, head of the computer games department
at the Saturn electrical store, said: "We are expecting a lot of
people to start queuing from 9:00 pm ahead of it going on sale at
midnight.


"We'll stay open until 2:00 am, but like in other countries I am
expecting it to sell out in 60 minutes."


At the nearby Sony Centre, the company's European headquarters, a
rock concert was to be held to entertain fans waiting to buy a
console.


However, for Ritatsu Thomas, 17, who headed the queue outside the
Virgin megastore in London, the wait and cost were worth it.


"It will mean a lot to be the first person in Britain to get
one," he told AFP.


The graphic design student from southwest London took a sleeping
bag, a flask, vitamin pills and a teach yourself Japanese book to
pass the time.


Some gaming fanatics were not buying into the hype, criticising
Sony's decision to sell only the top-of-the-line 60-gigabyte
version of the PS3 in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and
Australasia.


Chris Stead, former editor of Australian GamePro, said he would
not rush to buy the console, which retails for 1,000 dollars (808
US) in Australia, even though he was impressed with features such
as a Blu-ray DVD player.


Stead said the gaming community was concerned the PS3 lacked
"backward compatibility," meaning they could not use it to play
games purchased for the PS1 and PS2.


"The backward compatibility of the version they're selling here
is much lower than in the US and Japan, so we're being asked to
pay top dollar for an inferior product," he told AFP.


"You're going to have to download patches and fixes to be able to
play your PS1 and PS2 games and a lot of people aren't going to
bother."

