

Bangladesh confirmed Thursday its first case of bird flu,
prompting mass culling of poultry at a farm outside the capital
Dhaka, officials said.


"The cabinet held a special meeting on Thursday afternoon after
the health ministry confirmed that bird flu was detected at a
poultry farm at Savar," government spokesman Syed Fahim Munaim
said.


The government earlier sent samples from poultry on the farm to
the National Institute of Animal Health in Bangkok, which
confirmed the presence of the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus.


Bangladesh is home to hundreds of thousands of poultry farms
which employ more than a million people.


The head of the country's interim government, Fakhruddin Ahmed,
chaired Thursday's cabinet meeting, which agreed to measures to
prevent the spread of the disease in the South Asian country,
home to 144 million people.


"We've started culling birds at the infected farm and would now
take special measures including restricting movement of birds
within a 10-kilometre radius area to contain the disease," the
spokesman said.


Other measures include health checks on all workers who may have
come into contact with the infected birds, he said.


It is unclear how poultry became infected at the farm in Savar
town about 40 kilometres (25 miles) west of Dhaka.


The government released a statement urging residents to remain
calm, saying only birds at the one farm had been infected.


The virulent H5N1 virus has killed at least 169 people across the
world since late 2003 through contact with infected birds,
according to the World Health Organisation.


"The government would like to assure (everyone) that there is no
reason for any panic or concern. In fact, poultry birds and eggs
can be consumed as usual through normal cooking, according to
experts," it said.


A control centre has been opened to oversee the culling and
carrying out of the virus containment measures, it said.


Bangladesh had already banned imports of live birds from more
than 50 countries including neighbouring India and Myanmar after
outbreaks were detected there.


Bangladesh is the world's most densely populated country, and
hundreds of its doctors have been trained by the World Health
Programme in the event that humans contracted the virus.


Scientists fear the virus could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.

