

The International Committee of the Red Cross said Thursday that
the plight of the most needy rural communities in Sudan's strife-
torn region of Darfur is worsening.


The ICRC said in a regular report on its activities in Darfur
that it was "extremely concerned" about the "precarious"
humanitarian situation as rural communities were largely cut off
from aid deliveries by violence.


"Continued fighting and generally poor security conditions in
many areas are making people even more vulnerable than before and
hampering aid workers' access to those in need," the Geneva-based
agency said.


Sudan's Justice Minister, Mohamed Ali Elmardi, told the UN Human
Rights Council last week that the situation was improving in
Darfur.


"I can say without hesitation ... that the situation in Darfur,
since the eruption of the conflict three years ago, has never
been much more stable than it is today," Elmardi said.


The ICRC said it deplored two security incidents since the
beginning of the year where staff were briefly abducted and their
vehicles stolen.


In the most recent incident near the western town of Zalingei on
March 8, a four wheel drive vehicle and a truck were hijacked.


The six staffers were released unharmed after being held
overnight, but had to walk across the desert for five hours
before they found refuge in a village.


"The precarious security situation makes it extremely hard to
plan and carry out field activities, and means that communities
most at risk in rural areas are often reachable only
sporadically, if at all," the agency said.


In recent months, the ICRC has been stepping in to provide basic
food water and sanitation for displaced people after other relief
agencies withdrew following attacks.


The UN's new emergency relief coordinator John Holmes, arrived in
Khartoum on Wednesday for a week-long visit to Sudan, including
Darfur.


In a report published this month, the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said that the number
of people internally displaced by the conflict in Darfur had
reached two million.

