

President Pervez Musharraf appointed a new acting head of
Pakistan's top court as lawyers held fresh rallies Thursday
against his removal of the chief justice, officials said.


The government said Justice Rana Bhagwandas, the senior-most
judge who has been on leave, would "act as chief justice of
Pakistan with effect from the date he resumes his office."


Bhagwandas, the only Hindu judge at the country's Supreme Court,
arrived back in the southern port city of Karachi Wednesday after
a private visit to India. His leave expires on Friday.


He would replace Justice Javed Iqbal, who was appointed acting
chief justice on March 9 when the president suspended chief
justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on charges including that the
judge strong-armed promotions for his own son.


Lawyers have held nationwide demonstrations and strikes in
protest since Chaudhry's removal.


Around 3,000 lawyers boycotted court proceedings Thursday and
blocked a road ahead of a legal convention in the northwestern
city of Peshawar, witnesses said.


Waving black flags and banners, they shouted "Go Musharraf go"
and "We want freedom."


On Wednesday police fired tear gas and baton-charged around 100
lawyers in Quetta, the capital of southwestern Baluchistan
province, when they tried to hold a protest in front of the
provincial governor's residence, witnesses said.


Justice Iqbal on Thursday ordered a senior judge at Baluchistan
High Court to conduct a judicial probe into the incident and
submit a report within a week, court officials said.


Iqbal gave the order after a complaint filed by the vice
president of the Supreme Court Bar Association and summoned top
police and administration officials to his court, the officials
said on condition of anonymity.


Separately Chaudhry's legal team said the suspended chief justice
had accepted invitations to address lawyers in different cities,
in an apparent move to keep the momentum going in their campaign
for his reinstatement.


"Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry will address lawyers in Rawalpindi and
Peshawar on March 28 and 30 respectively," one of Chaudhry's
lawyers, Hamid Khan, told AFP.


Lawyers say they will also boycott courts across the country on
April 3 when Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council is to hold its
next hearing into allegations of misconduct and abuse of office
against Chaudhry.


Eight judges and a deputy attorney general have already resigned
in protest.


Chaudhry denies the charges, including that he unfairly gained
promotions for his son and insisted on the use of cars and
aircraft to which he was not entitled.


Bhagwandas is expected to head a reconstituted judicial council
for further hearing of the case against Chaudhry.


The council held two sessions last week and a scheduled third
sitting was postponed, amid demonstrations by the law community
demanding reinstatement of Justice Chaudhry.

