

British Airways said Thursday it wanted talks to start
immediately on liberalisation of the US aviation market after EU
transport ministers cleared plans to free up transatlantic routes
between Europe and the United States.


BA is annoyed that the "open skies" agreement between the EU and
US forbids European airlines from flying between American cities,
while American carriers can fly between destinations in the
European Union.


But a clause in the deal means Britain could re-impose
restrictions on US airlines operating in Europe in 2010 if there
was no progress in a second round of negotiations aimed at
removing internal barriers in the US.


"With the EU having given away their most valuable negotiating
asset -- Heathrow -- the UK government must stand by its pledge
to withdraw traffic rights if the US does not deliver further
liberalisation by 2010," said BA chief executive Willie Walsh.


"The EU is naive to believe the US will deliver on the next stage
of liberalisation without sanctions, so we are pleased the UK
government has recognised this and demanded an automatic
termination clause.


"Nothing short of an open aviation area by 2010 will be
acceptable and we want talks on the second stage to achieve this
to start immediately."


Those talks are planned to take place by January 2008.


"We will hold the government to its word to fight for Britain's
interests if America doesn't play ball," Walsh said in a
statement.


"Though this is a poor agreement for Britain and Europe, we are
ready to exploit the new opportunities this agreement gives us
for our customers and our business."


The deal means that British Airways and Virgin Atlantic will lose
the grip they have on flights to the US from Heathrow, the
world's busiest international airport.


The two airlines previously shared this route with US carriers
American Airlines and United Airlines.


"It (the deal) doesn't enable full liberalisation, it doesn't
open up US markets so that European and British carriers can
operate from one city to another," a Virgin spokesperson told BBC
News.


Virgin did acknowledge the deal was good for the consumer
however, saying that it would aid its expansion plans and create
hundreds of new jobs.


"It's a good day for the traveller as consumers should benefit
from fully open skies between the EU and US by 2010," Virgin
Atlantic said in a statement.


"Virgin Atlantic is actively looking at expanding in Europe,
offering flights from key European hubs such as Paris, Frankfurt,
Amsterdam, and Madrid to New York."

