

Brian Joubert shrugged off a foot injury to bring France their
first men's figure skating championship in 42 years, issuing an
early warning to his rivals ahead of the 2010 Olympics.


Joubert, who has swept all before him this season to win the
Grand Prix final and the European title for the first time,
upstaged Olympic medallists to go one up on his silvers from the
2004 and 2006 world championships.


He landed a clean quadruple toeloop in his opening element but
played safe by changing a quadruple to a triple in a combination
in the free skating as he skated to "The Unforgiven" and "Nothing
Else Matters."


With a 3.74-point lead over Canada's Olympic bronze winner
Jeffrey Buttle from the short programme, Joubert skated without
an error and finished on top with a total of 240.85 points.


"I'm very proud because it was very difficult tonight," the 22
-year-old said. "I didn't sleep very well last night. So I was
tired today."


"I think about the next Olympics. We have to be ready. It's going
to be a very interesting season next one," he said. "I feel good
and I'm young. So I can do all competitions."


Japan's Daisuke Takahashi wept with joy as he top-scored in the
free skating to finish second overall at 237.95, the best ever
result in the worlds or Olympics for Japanese men.


Switzerland's Stephane Lambiel, the Olympic silver medalist who
has won the last two world titles, battled back from overnight
sixth place to grab the bronze with 233.35 points.


Buttle fell twice and touched the ice once in a disastrous
performance which left him sixth with 214.96 points.


In the absence of Russia's Olympic champion Evgeni Plushnko, who
was taking a season off, Joubert became the first singles world
champion from France since Alain Calmat won the men's title in
1965.


Calamat watched Joubert perform from the stands among a sellout
crowd of 6,500 at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium.


"Alain Calmat brings me luck. He was also there when I won the
first European title for France since him," Joubert said.


"It was very difficult and I was very nervous. I had an injury
and it was not easy but I won."


His right foot was slashed by a skate blade in training after he
won the European title in January. He could not practice a triple
Lutz, a flip and a camel spin among other elements but the pain
from the injury subsided just a few days before he arrived in
Tokyo.


"I didn't attempt the second quad, because I wanted to give the
audience a clean programme," he said. "Waiting for the scores was
torture."


Takahashi touched the ice at his first quadruple attempt to get
one deducted.


"To be honest, I was so nervous before I skated that I wanted to
cry," he said.


Lambiel scored the second best with 160.65 as he landed a
quadruple but under- rotated a triple in a combination after a
clean triple Axel. But he also touched the ice on his second
quadruple.


"It was great. It was my new programme and this is the real
Stephane Lambiel today," said the 21-year-old Swiss, who has
skipped the European championships citing lack of motivation.


"What was important for me today is to land a triple axel and a
quad toe (loop) and it was done and after that I could really
skate with freedom and enjoy my skating, and that was my goal I
had when I came here," he added.


He insisted that the colour of medal was not important for him.


"I am skating because I love to express my emotions. Figure
skating is not just a sport but also showtime," he said. "When
I'm skating, I try to feel this harmony."

