

The Dutch banking and insurance group ING said Thursday it was
ready to look at mergers and acquisitions amid signs of
consolidation in the European banking sector.


Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad reported earlier Thursday
that ING had approached two investment banks to help it form a
banking alliance in Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg.


"ING has been saying for quite a while now that, when
consolidation is taking place, we want to be one of the players,
and we're closely monitoring developments," ING spokesman Peter
Jong said.


British bank Barclays has confirmed it is in merger talks with
Dutch peer ABN Amro, sparking speculation about a wave of
takeover deals between European banks.


"We don't feel under any pressure to make large acquisitions,"
Jong added, noting ING was not limited to the Benelux region but
was looking at Europe as a whole.


He declined to confirm that investment banks Goldman Sachs and JP
Morgan had been hired to advise the group, as reported by Het
Financieele Dagblad.


The newspaper identified potential partners as French-Belgian
bank Dexia, Dutch- Belgian group Fortis and Belgian bank KBC.


ING was capitalised at 70 billion euros (93 billion dollars) and
was big enough to mount a takeover for one of them, it said.


An analyst at Belgian bank Bank Degroof, Ivan Lathouders, said
that "on the basis of current shareholdership and market position
in banking and finance, the most likely merger candidate for ING
would clearly be Fortis."


Analysts at Dutch bank Rabo Securities echoed this sentiment,
saying that "it is impossible to predict what the outcome will
be, but if ING really goes for the Benelux ... Fortis has the
highest probability."


But Delta Lloyd Securities analyst Carlo Ponfoort said that
Fortis should "absolutely not" be a candidate, adding that "in
the Netherlands there would be no synergies at all, only
overlap."


In midday trade, shares in Fortis showed a gain of 4.72 percent
in Amsterdam.


Shares in Dexia gained 3.79 percent, while shares in KBC were up
3.85 percent.

