

Oil prices jumped by more than two dollars here Thursday amid
tightening US gasoline reserves, and on the belief that a Federal
Reserve rate cut could be in the offing.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, soared 2.08 dollars to close at 61.69 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
added 1.74 dollars to 62.51 dollars a barrel.


"Continued contraction in gasoline stocks is providing a lift to
crude, giving buyers an edge," Fimat analyst Mike Fitzpatrick
said.


"The Fed's outlook for the economy should go a long way towards
alleviating fears of sagging energy demand, as well," he added.


Gasoline, or petrol, was in focus ahead of the peak-demand
driving season, beginning May 31, when US drivers hit the roads
for their summer vacations.


"Oil prices have moved sharply higher today (Thursday) in the
wake of yesterday's supportive US inventory data," said Barclays
Capital analyst Kevin Norrish.


He added: "The US data are continuing to show a sharp tightening
(in supply), a dynamic which suggests scope for upside price
potential as we move into the second quarter."


The US Department of Energy (DoE) had said Wednesday that US
gasoline inventories sank by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million
in the week to March 16. The reading was heavier than market
expectations for a dip of two million.


"Gasoline stocks have declined for six weeks in a row,
underpinned by strong demand, refinery glitches and maintenance,"
Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


The DoE said that US crude inventories rose by four million
barrels to 329.3 million last week. That was higher than
analysts' consensus forecasts for a gain of just one million
barrels.


Meanwhile, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) tried to soften global concerns about decreasing oil
supplies, saying it was committed to providing enough for world
consumption.


"OPEC is committed to ensure steady, secure supplies of crude oil
to all consumers at affordable prices both now and in the
future," OPEC president Mohammed al-Hamili told a conference in
Bangkok.


"We are determined to develop sufficient production capacities in
tandem with growth in demand to meet world oil needs," said al-
Hamili, who is also minister of energy in the United Arab
Emirates.


The powerful cartel decided to leave its total daily output
unchanged last week at 25.8 million barrels, arguing that global
supply levels are healthy.


The 12-member group, which has twice cut production in recent
months, pumps more than a third of the world's oil production and
about four-fifths of proven crude oil reserves.


"These (US inventory) numbers are and have been very bullish but
concerns about the economy have held the oil back," Alaron
Trading's Phil Flynn said.


"Now with the Fed cutting its bias it was a big sense of relief
for fearful oil traders," he said.


At the conclusion of its latest meeting Wednesday, the Federal
Reserve seemingly held out the prospect of a rate cut later this
year in an amended policy statement.


"By changing the bias, the Fed reduced the chance that they will
pigheadedly let the economy drift into recession," Flynn said,
noting that US economic strength will keep demand for crude
products high.

