

Somali troops backed by Ethiopian tanks Thursday exchanged heavy
mortar and machine-gun fire with insurgents for a second straight
day in Mogadishu, killing three civilians, as hundreds fled.


A day after at least 21 people were killed, according to a new
toll, including soldiers who were dragged and burned in the
streets, Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi ordered civilians to
leave areas in southern Mogadishu "for security reasons".


But as residents fled the south, heavy exchanges of mortar and
machine-gun fire broke out in the north, which has been
relatively tranquil up to now.


"Three people, one of them a woman, were killed after a mortar
landed in a house they were living in," said Ahmed Ali, a
resident of a northern Mogadishu neighbourhood.


A total of six people were reported wounded in the area, with
exact casualty figures remaining unclear as several battle zones
were inaccessible.


Residents said they were afraid to go outside.


"We are inside our houses and very scared. There are stray
bullets everywhere," said Bashir Mohamed, a resident of the
northern Gupta neighbourhood.


Doctors in capital's largest Medina hospital said five people had
died overnight, raising Wednesday's death toll from 16 to 21.
More than 170 wounded people had arrived there since Wednesday
morning.


Ethiopian tanks, rarely used in Mogadishu street fights, were
seen rumbling into position towards skirmishes in the south of
the battered seaside city.


The latest fighting was sparked by a government crackdown on the
insurgents, many of whom are believed to be Islamists who have
returned to the capital after being driven out with the help of
Ethiopian forces late last year.


"The fighting in Mogadishu will not stop until we defeat them
(the insurgents)," Deputy Defence Minister Salad Ali Jelle told a
news conference.


"We will pursue our aim of stabilizing Mogadishu. This plan will
not be hampered by a few individuals."


Jelle said Al-Qaeda had named Islamist commander Aden Hashi Ayro
as its leader in Mogadishu, raising the spectre of a broader
insurgency involving foreign Islamic extremists linked to Osama
bin Laden's terror network.


Western intelligence agencies believe numerous Al-Qaeda
operatives are hiding within the ranks of the Somali Islamists, a
charge the Islamists vehemently reject.


Early this month an Islamist website released an audio-taped
message attributed to Ayro, who called on Somalis to attack and
kill Ethiopian troops in Somalia.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from powerful clans.


A small force of some 1,500 Ugandan troops is now in Somalia as
part of a proposed African Union peacekeeping mission of 8,000 to
help government troops regain control and enable Ethiopian forces
to leave.


The Hawiye clan, seen as the instigators of the insurgency, on
Thursday rejected the prime minister's order to leave Mogadishu
and accused the government of planning an assault against them.


"We see this war as an act of aggression," said Ahmed Dirie,
spokesman for the clan, from where the Islamists drew most of
their fighters.


He also claimed that the government had deployed fighters to
Mogadishu from the northern semi-autonomous region of Puntland,
from President Abullahi Yusuf Ahmed's rival Darod clan.


"The fighting will continue until the Puntland militia leave the
capital," Dirie said.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, creating a platform for a civil
war that has defied more than 14 peace-making attempts.

