

Teenagers in England who leave full-time education at 16 and
refuse to go back or to do "on-the-job" training could face
prosecution and fines in future, the government said Thursday.


Education Secretary Alan Johnson said that from 2015, all
teenagers in England should be expected to stay in either
education or work-related training until at least their 18th
birthday.


If adopted, the proposals would be the most significant change in
the school leaving age since 1972, when laws requiring children
to stay on at school until at least their 16th birthday came into
force.


Johnson said previous governments in the early- and mid-20th
century had wanted to keep children at school until the age of 18
but the provisions were never successfully implemented.


He said a change was required because in the last 35 years
Britain "has been transformed technologically, economically and
socially" and a 16-year-old school leaver without qualifications
was unprepared for the world of work.


Currently, about 76 percent of English 17-year-olds are in
education or training.


The government aims to ensure that 90 percent are in either
education or training by 2015 but Johnson said ministers wanted
to go beyond that for "reasons of social justice."


"Those young people who continue in education or training for
longer earn more and are less likely to be involved in anti-
social behaviour," he added.


"Often those that drop out are those with the most to gain from
continuing to learn and gain useful skills. We must not allow
young people to be left behind."


The green paper -- a government document setting out ideas and
opinions for public discussion and consultation -- says teenagers
would be able to work more than 20 hours per week and take part-
time courses.


Alternatively, they could stay in full-time education. The number
of apprenticeships would be expanded while better guidance and
advice would be available.


To be compliant with the new law, teenagers must be working
towards government "accredited qualifications."


But if those opting to work fail to attend part-time courses,
they would be issued with an "attendance order." A breach could
lead to a court appearance, 50-pound (75-euro, 100-dollar) fine
or a community sentence.


Johnson said this would only be used as a last resort.


Education and training in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
are the responsibility of the devolved adminstrations there.

