

The United States Thursday hailed a "historic" decision by EU
transport ministers to endorse an "open skies" accord that
injects more competition into transatlantic aviation.


In a statement, US Transportation Secretary Mary Peters said the
deal would boost "economic, political, and personal relationships
between our two continents for years to come."


"The historic decision by the European Council of Ministers ...
will bring new and valuable benefits to air travelers and
communities on both sides of the Atlantic," she said.


"Tearing down regulatory barriers allows us to foster more
affordable and convenient air travel and gives our airline
industry more opportunities to compete, innovate and thrive."


The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on the EU's
behalf, says consumers will see up to 12 billion euros (16
billion dollars) in economic benefits as increased competition
brings downs ticket prices.


The European Union estimates the agreement could generate more
than 26 million extra passengers over the next five years and
create 80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa.


As a result, Peters said, "this agreement will spur growth within
our aviation network and enhance the freedom of American fliers
to choose where and when they travel."


Unanimous EU agreement on the deal was possible only after
ministers overcame British reservations about competition out of
London's Heathrow airport by delaying the date of application to
the end of March 2008.


Currently, only British Airways and Virgin Atlantic of Britain,
and US carriers United Airlines and American Airlines, are
allowed to fly from Heathrow to the United States.


The Air Transport Association (ATA), which represents leading US
airlines, said the EU pact heralded "much-desired increased
service between the United States and Europe."


"It has the potential to provide enormous benefits to our
respective customers and economies," ATA president James May
said, while paying tribute to the "diligence and commitment" of
US and EU negotiators.


The agreement would also lift restrictions on EU carriers buying
big stakes in US airlines, although their voting rights in a US
carrier would remain capped at 25 percent, much to the chagrin of
Britain.

