

Democrats on Thursday resort to the power of the purse to try to
end to America's military involvement in Iraq with a debate on an
emergency spending bill that includes a 2008 deadline for troop
withdrawal.


"As we begin the fifth year of this war, it is clear that the
administration's Iraq policy is failing and that we must change
direction," said Democratic House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer,
discussing the bill this week.


A key provision of the bill, Hoyer said, is to create benchmarks
holding the Iraqi government accountable for moving steadily
toward self-governance and control of its own security.


Debate was to open Thursday ahead of an anticipated vote on
Friday.


"It is long past time for this Congress to insist on
accountability and a new direction in Iraq. We will no longer be
a rubber stamp for a failing policy that has cost us so much in
blood and treasure," Hoyer said.


"We must demand a new direction in Iraq. That is precisely what
this legislation will provide."


But Republicans have criticized the measure, saying that ruling
Democrats were treading on the turf of generals in the Pentagon
in trying to direct the course of the war from Washington.


The bill calls for a 124 billion dollar spending package for Iraq
and Afghanistan but Democrats have added a provisions linking
approval of the money to a withdrawal of US forces from Iraq by
August 31, 2008.


"Under the Constitution it is very clear Congress may declare
war, Congress may choose to fund or choose not to fund war, but
Congress may not conduct war," said Representative Mike Pence, a
staunch supporter of US President George W. Bush's Iraq policy.


He condemned the measure as "fiscally irresponsible and
constitutionally flawed."


"The American people expect this Congress to send our soldiers
the resources they need to win in Afghanistan," Pence said.


Pence and other Republicans criticized Democrats for larding the
bill with enticements to make it more attractive to fence-
sitters, and called for an Iraq funding bill "with no strings and
no pork."


The legislation includes billions in incentives for lawmakers
from agricultural states, such as 25 million dollars for spinach
growers, funds for Gulf Coast clean-up post-Hurricane Katrina and
other extras that aim to make it hard for legislators from the
affected communities to pass up.


Top House Republican John Boehner derided what he called the
Democrats' "pork- barrel" approach to legislating as
"constitutionally-suspect, politically- charged."


Another leading Republican, Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the
House Armed Services Committee, slammed the bill for taking
positions he called "detrimental to our national security and
injurious to our military," because of the August 2008 pullout
provision.


"Is there a strategic rationale for this date? Nothing that I
have seen on the ground in Iraq -- and I was there just 10 days
ago -- suggests that Congress should force a precipitous
withdrawal from Iraq and tie the hands of American military
commanders," Hunter said late Wednesday.


The White House has urged Congress to approve the spending bill
without provisions and vowed that any inclusion of a timetable
for withdrawal would doom the bill to a presidential veto.

