

The wife of a Chinese man jailed in Beijing for promoting
democracy plans to sue Yahoo Inc. for allegedly turning over
information about him to authorities, it was reported here
Thursday.


Yu Ling, 55, is in the United States scouting for a lawyer to
file the case for husband Wang Xiaoning, serving a 10-year
sentence since September 2002 for using the Internet to advocate
democracy, according to The Washington Times.


She charged that the California-based search giant Yahoo provided
evidence that helped Chinese authorities convict Wang, 57, the
newspaper said.


"I have to help my husband," Yu said. "Yahoo is wrong ... I hope
Yahoo is punished and the other companies learn from it," she
said.


Wang was convicted for inciting "the subversion of state power"
and his appeal has been rejected, the report said, adding that
both court opinions cited information provided by Yahoo.


Yahoo, along with Google and Microsoft, have been accused of
putting business ahead of integrity by succumbing to China's
pressure and censoring sensitive information on its Chinese
search engines, websites and blogs.


The three portals are battling for a share of China's fast-
growing Internet market, the second-largest Internet user in the
world after the United States.


In 2002, Yahoo voluntarily signed the "Public Pledge on Self-
Discipline for the China Internet Industry," agreeing to abide by
Chinese censorship regulations.


"It's important to note that law-enforcement agencies in China,
the United States and elsewhere typically do not explain to
information technology companies like Yahoo ... why they demand
specific information in a criminal investigation regarding
certain individuals," Yahoo spokesman Jim Cullinan was quoted
saying by The Washington Times.


"Yahoo condemns punishment of any activity recognized as freedom
of expression. We have expressed our strong feelings about such
actions to the Chinese government as well as the US State
Department," he said.


Last week, the Hong Kong government cleared Yahoo from charges it
provided information that led to the jailing of a Chinese
journalist, saying the Internet portal did not violate privacy
laws.


Shi Tao was sentenced to 10 years in jail in 2005 for leaking
state secrets after posting on the Internet a government order
barring Chinese media from marking the 15th anniversary of the
brutal 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown on democracy activists.


Yahoo! Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. allegedly provided information
that proved Shi had emailed the information from his office
computer at Contemporary Business News, based in the central
Chinese province of Hunan.


It was accused of providing the Internet Protocol (IP) address of
Shi's computer and his work phone number and address. The IP
address is a unique number assigned to every computer connected
to the Internet.


However, Hong Kong privacy commissioner Roderick Woo ruled last
Wednesday that the IP address Yahoo provided to the Chinese
authorities was not personal data and did not reveal Shi's
identity.

