

Egypt's main opposition parties announced on Thursday that they
will boycott a national referendum on controversial
constitutional amendments.


The liberal Wafd party, the leftist Tagammu party and the left-
leaning Nasserist and Karama parties are all to boycott the
referendum to be held next Monday, the groups said.


"The Nasserist party will not participate in the referendum. A
boycott is the least we can do," Abdallah al-Sennawi, editor of
the Nasserist daily Al-Arabi, told AFP.


"Participating and voting 'no' will get us nowhere, because
experience of previous referendums shows that results are always
tampered with for the benefit of the authorities," he said.


"These amendments are a scandal... and a regression compared to
previous constitutions," Mahmud Abaza, head of the Wafd party,
told his party paper.


On Wednesday, the Muslim Brotherhood -- Egypt's largest
opposition movement -- announced its intention to boycott the
referendum.


"We have decided to boycott the referendum and call on all
citizens to boycott it," the movement's deputy supreme guide,
Mohammed Habib, told AFP.


On Monday, the ruling party-dominated parliament overwhelmingly
passed amendments to 34 articles of the constitution that they
say will strengthen democracy and fight terrorism.


The opposition argues that they will strengthen only the regime's
grip on power.


The amendment of Article 179 has come in for particular criticism
since it would allow the authorities to arrest suspects, search
their homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a
warrant.


It would also allow the trial of civilians by military courts in
terrorism cases.


The change to Article 88 governing elections is also
controversial because it repeals the judicial supervision of the
ballot boxes credited by the opposition for their gains in recent
elections.


Instead, under the amended article, elections will be supervised
by an ill- defined "supreme independent council" that will
probably be appointed by the government.


The referendum was initially set for April 4, but was brought
forward unexpectedly to March 26.


The opposition has denounced the speed at which measures were
passed and the suddenness of the referendum as an attempt to ram
through changes that they say have serious ramifications for
civil liberties.


"The regime's refusal to take any opposition into account, the
sudden change of the referendum date... and the lack of
transparency all indicates that the results will be forged,"
Habib said.


"These amendments are nothing but a coup against the
constitution."


The Muslim Brotherhood led the opposition in parliament, staging
protests and a walkout during the final debate. But with only a
fifth of the seats in the legislature they were overwhelmed by
the ruling party.


Some 500 Brotherhood students marched through Cairo University on
Wednesday to the beat of a drum in a mock funeral protesting
against the adoption of the amendments.


The popular Islamist movement is officially outlawed in Egypt but
still managed to win a fifth of the seats in parliament in 2005
legislative polls by fielding candidates as independents.


Human rights group Amnesty International last week criticised the
amendments as "the most serious undermining of human rights
safeguards in Egypt since the state of emergency was re-imposed
in 1981."


"The proposed constitutional amendments would simply entrench the
long-standing system of abuse under Egypt's state of emergency
powers and give the misuse of those powers a bogus legitimacy,"
said Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui, Deputy Director of Amnesty
International's Middle East and North Africa programme.

