

The World Health Organisation on Thursday urged more rich
countries to fund a 10 billion dollar drive to ensure that a
pandemic flu vaccine is widely available in poor countries.


"We urge other countries and donors to step up and join Canada,
Japan and the United States in supporting this critical work,"
said Marie-Paule Kieny, director of the WHO's Initiative for
Vaccine Research.


"For this work to continue to advance in a timely manner,
additional funds are needed for this 10-year, 10 billion dollar
effort to protect the world from what could be a devastating
public health crisis," she added in a statement.


Most poor countries cannot afford to buy and maintain stocks of a
vaccine once it is developed, making them a weak link in global
efforts to stave off a potentially devastating global spread of
deadlier pandemic flu virus.


Scientists fear that the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu that is
prevalent mainly in Asia could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


The WHO said that it was making progress with its Global Pandemic
Action Plan, ahead of a technical meeting in the Indonesian
capital, Jakarta, next week on access for developing countries to
pandemic vaccine, including on sharing influenza viruses.


Indonesia, the country worst-hit by human cases of bird flu,
stopped sending samples abroad for tests in February, amid fears
that the laboratory samples would be also used for developing
vaccines that would not be available in the country.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari has called for a legal
guarantee that bird flu samples sent to the WHO will not be
exploited for profit.


The UN health agency said "encouraging progress" was reported
last month in more than 40 clinical trials of pandemic influenza
vaccines in humans.


All vaccines were so far reported safe and well tolerated in all
age groups tested, it added.


Six projects for increasing overall vaccine production capacity
-- in two Latin American and four Asian countries -- are in the
final stage of approval, the WHO said.


Three of the Asian countries have had human cases of the virulent
H5N1 bird flu virus.


The WHO is also examining the establishment of a virtual
international pandemic influenza stockpile and securing advance
funds earmarked to buy vaccines for developing countries in case
of an influenza pandemic.

