

Herschelle Gibbs Thursday hoped for an action replay of his
monumental knock which helped South Africa chase a world-record
target in their last match against Australia in 2006.


"The 438 game was a freak sort of game, and it gave me a little
extra motivation, an extra incentive, to maybe explore my talents
a little bit further just to see what I could accomplish," Gibbs
was quoted by the Sydney Morning Herald in an interview here.


Gibbs hit 175 to help South Africa chase a 435-run target on
March 12 last year at The Wanderers in Johannesburg.


Since then South Africa have displaced Australia from their world
number one spot for the first time since rankings was introduced
in 2002.


South Africa, however, face an uphill task to live up to their
top ranking when they face Australia in an explosive contest
Saturday, a match which decides who tops World Cup Group A and
carry crucial two points into the Super Eights.


Gibbs, who averages a dismal 27 in one-day internationals against
Australia and 31 in Tests, admitted he had to overcome the
Australian bowlers' stranglehold over him.


"Maybe the mental side of it has got something to do with it,"
said Gibbs, who has been dismissed 11 times by Glenn McGrath.


"The Australians don't allow you to score as freely as you do
against other teams, and they have always had a lot more
experience than any other team I have played against, and that is
something you can't put a price on.


"There is always a bit of banter that goes on. It is something we
have come to expect of Australia but when you have played against
them for long enough that's just the way it is."


Gibbs has been in fine form at the World Cup hitting a record six
successive sixes in one over against the Dutch last week.


However, the Australians are a different matter.


In 1999, he dropped captain Steve Waugh in a World Cup group
match.


"You need a bit of luck to win a World Cup. It's my third World
Cup now, and the last two we have been very unlucky. We've got
the squad now, and with a bit of luck, who knows what can
happen."

