

The editor of the satirical French weekly Charlie Hebdo was
acquitted on Thursday on charges of offending Muslims for
publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.


A Paris court threw out a suit brought by two Muslim
organisations against editor Philippe Val for reprinting in 2006
cartoons that had appeared in a Danish newspaper, sparking angry
protests by Muslims worldwide.


"This is good news for all who believe in freedom of expression,
for secular Muslims and republicans," Val said after the verdict
was handed down, drawing applause in the courtroom.


The Paris Grand Mosque and the Union of Islamic Organisations of
France took Charlie Hebdo to court for "publicly offending a
group of persons on the basis of their religion".


They had argued that the images drew an offensive link between
Islam and terrorism and had asked for 30,000 euros (38,750
dollars) in damages.


The court ruled that two of the cartoons were absolutely not
offensive to Muslims and that the "acceptable limits of freedom
of expression had not been crossed."


One cartoon reprinted from Denmark's Jyllands-Posten showed the
prophet standing on a cloud, turning away suicide bombers from
paradise with the caption "Stop, stop, we ran out of virgins."


The second, by the French cartoonist Cabu, showed Mohammed
sobbing, holding his head in his hands and saying: "It is hard to
be loved by fools", under the caption "Mohammed overwhelmed by
fundamentalists."


On the third cartoon -- showing Mohammed wearing a turban shaped
as a bomb, and first printed in Jyllands-Posten -- the court's
ruling was more nuanced.


The court decided that the caricature could potentially be
insulting to Muslims but that the context of its publication in
Charlie Hebdo made clear there was no intention to offend.


The president of the Union of Islamic Organisations of France,
Lhaj Thami Breze, said following the hearing that he intended to
appeal "because we are unhappy with the verdict."


"We don't understand, the judgement says that one of the drawings
is shocking but that it falls within the framework of freedom of
expression," said the group's lawyer.


But lawyers for the Paris Mosque said they accepted the ruling as
"balanced" and would not seek to challenge it.


The trial was seen as an important test for freedom of expression
in France and large crowds crammed into the Paris courtroom
during sessions last month to hear the arguments put by both
sides.


French presidential candidates had lined up during the trial to
defend their ideas about religion and freedom of expression,
while a group of 50 intellectuals including many French Muslims
published an open letter supporting Charlie Hebdo.


Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, the frontrunner in next
month's race, had sent a letter of support at the opening of the
hearings, saying he preferred "an excess of caricature to the
absence of caricature."


In Copenhagen, Carsten Juste, the editor-in-chief of the
Jyllands-Posten newspaper that first published the cartoons,
welcomed the court ruling.


"Anything other than a total acquittal would have been a
catastrophe for free debate and the entire foundation of our
democratic society," Juste said.


The editors of Jyllands-Posten were acquitted in October of any
wrongdoing in a separate case in a Danish court and very few of
the dozens of newspapers worldwide that reprinted the cartoons
have faced legal action.

