

All of Indonesia's 54 airlines needed to improve safety
standards, the nation's air transport chief revealed Thursday, as
he launched a safety drive in the wake of several tragic
disasters.


Some airlines, including Adam Air, must improve standards or face
closure, while one small carrier, Dirgantara Air Service, has
already been grounded, Budhi Muliawan Suyitno said.


"Since the deregulation of airlines there are many violations ...
that could cause latent failure, such as a serious accident,"
Suyitno told reporters.


The announcement follows a March 7 crash landing by a Garuda
Indonesia jet in the central city of Yogyakarta, which killed 21
people, and after an Adam Air jet plunged into the sea off
Sulawesi on New Year's Day, killing 102.


Indonesia's airline industry was deregulated in the 1990s,
encouraging many new operators to take to the skies and producing
massive passenger growth, but the recent disasters and other
accidents have raised fears of lax safety.


The drive classifies the 54 airlines into three categories, but
none qualified for the top one indicating high safety, Suyitno
said in a statement.


National carrier Garuda Indonesia was put into the second
category, which means the airline meets minimum safety
requirements but needed to make some improvements.


Adam Air was put in the last category, where airlines also meet
minimum safety conditions but must undertake more serious
improvements or face closure after a series of warnings over a
number of months.


Suyitno said the new airline category system, which is based on
20 safety criteria like accident history and maintenance
standards, was born of the need for a systematic and durable
approach to passenger protection.


He replaced the previous air transport head earlier this month
amid pressure on Transport Minister Hatta Rajasa for improvements
after the Garuda disaster.


Rajasa's job was also thought at risk as television images of the
Boeing jet erupting in flames, taken by a cameraman who survived,
flashed around the world.


Earlier this month Oetarjo Diran, a member of a task force
appointed by Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in
January to evaluate transport safety, said air safety was "at a
low point."


Experts have blamed old planes, lax standards and insufficient
investment in infrastructure for the crashes and other incidents.


Indonesia has also suffered deadly ferry accidents in recent
months.


The disasters have shaken confidence in the air and sea links
that bind the archipelago nation of 17,000 islands.

