

Britain pledged a financial package aimed at kick-starting
Northern Ireland's economy Thursday, but only if its Protestant
and Catholic rival parties agree to a power-sharing deal by a
Monday deadline.


The announcement followed talks in London between finance
minister Gordon Brown and the leading parties, including Catholic
Sinn Fein's president Gerry Adams and chief negotiator Martin
McGuinness, plus Protestant Democratic Unionist (DUP) chief Ian
Paisley.


As head of the British-run province's biggest party, Paisley is
in line to become the devolved Northern Ireland Assembly's first
minister with McGuinness as his deputy, if power-sharing occurs.


Brown announced an extra one billion pounds (1.97 billion
dollars, 1.47 billion euros) -- including 400 million pounds from
the Republic of Ireland -- on top of 35 billion pounds to be
spread over the next four years.


But Northern Ireland's main parties seemed largely unimpressed
with the chancellor of the exchequer's efforts, ramping up
tension about whether they will meet the deadline as the all-or-
nothing date looms.


If the parties cannot agree on forming a power-sharing executive
by midnight Monday, then the assembly will be axed, the financial
package dropped and the province run indefinitely from London.


"This is a historic opportunity to move forward," Brown said.


"By making possible the resumption of the executive through
having the resources that they need, the potential for creating
the jobs that they can and helping look at some of the challenges
they face, we can move this process forward."


The chancellor announced measures to improve job prospects and a
review to examine the case for cutting corporation tax, or
taxation on company profits, in Northern Ireland -- something
seen by the province's parties as hampering its economy.


Corporation tax across Britain, including Northern Ireland, will
drop from 30 percent to 28 percent from April 2008, Brown
announced Wednesday.


But the rate in neighbouring Ireland is 12.5 percent, seen as
contributing to its booming "Celtic Tiger" economy, which has
attracted large-scale foreign investment.


The DUP topped the March 7 Northern Ireland Assembly polls, with
Sinn Fein -- the former political wing of the Irish Republican
Army (IRA) -- coming second.


"There is no point in having the beautiful train and no fuel,"
Paisley said on devolution.


"To have successful government, to get jobs for people, to get us
to a position where we can claim by right: 'Come to Northern
Ireland, we can give you the best possible deal, nobody can out-
deal us' -- that must be where we stand."


Sinn Fein negotiator Mitchel McLaughlin said there was some
progress Thursday but the province's parties were "still some
distance away" from what they thought was required.


He questioned how much of the one billion pounds was in fact new
money.


Irish Finance Minister Brian Cowen said its part of the package
provided for the biggest-ever project between Northern Ireland
and the Republic.


"The agreement on a major cross-border roads programme and a new
north/south research and innovation fund represent the type of
imaginative and ambitious policies that we need to pursue to
secure peace and build future prosperity," he said.


Wrangling on striking a power-sharing deal seems set to continue
to the deadline.

