

Lawyers for pop singer Britney Spears said Thursday they had
obtained an emergency injunction in London's High Court to
prevent further details being leaked about her time in a
rehabilitation clinic.


London media law firm Schillings said in a statement that judge
Charles Gray had granted an order aimed at preventing "further
disclosures invading her privacy".


The 25-year-old singer checked out of the Promises Malibu
Treatment Centre after successfully completing a treatment
programme, including alcohol counselling, according to a US
People magazine report on March 21.


The singer, famous for hits such as "...Baby One More Time" and
"Oops!...I Did It Again" has been beset with personal struggles
since announcing her split from husband Kevin Federline late last
year.


Her every move has been tracked by the media, including when she
shaved her head at a salon in full view of the paparazzi last
month.


Schillings said in a statement: "We can confirm that an emergency
injunction was obtained in London's High Court this afternoon as
ordered by Mr Justice Gray on behalf of Britney Spears to
restrain the person or persons, known as 'John Doe', who has/have
been leaking information about Ms Spears' time in a
rehabilitation clinic from further disclosures invading her
privacy.


"This injunction will now be served on the UK media so as to
assist them in not making the mistake of carrying such further
disclosures if approached by this person or his/her agent.


"Ms Spears reserves the right and intends to challenge false
allegations which have already been published about her time in
rehabilitation and which are the subject of ongoing legal
complaint."


The law firm said they had applied to the High Court to seek a
further order requiring certain British media organisations to
disclose their sources "so that John Doe can be identified and
action can be taken against him/her".


It is not possible to sue for invasion of privacy in Britain but
various laws are in place to protect individuals, including the
Human Rights Act, which incorporates the European Convention of
Human Rights.


Article eight of the convention covers the right to privacy.


A number of celebrities in recent years, including supermodel
Naomi Campbell and the actors Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-
Jones, have brought action over press intrusion as an extension
of breach of confidence laws.


Clarissa Amato, from Schillings, told AFP the "John Doe
injunction" is a English common law device dating back 200 years.


It was used after unauthorised extracts of an unpublished "Harry
Potter" book appeared and to prevent animal rights protestors
publishing personal details of GlaxoSmithKline shareholders on
the Internet.

