

Basque radicals on Thursday blamed the Spanish government for the
current impasse in the peace process, saying Madrid had not
seized the opportunity of last year's now aborted ceasefire.


A December 30 bombing in Madrid shattered the ceasefire announced
last March 22 by armed separatist group ETA after nine months,
during which the Socialist government had attempted to inch
towards a negotiated settlement of a four- decade conflict
costing some 800 lives.


The government failed to fulfil "one by one the commitments" it
made to pro- independence Basques when the ceasefire "became a
reality a year ago," said Batasuna representative Pernando
Barrena.


Nonetheless, "the historic opportunity remains open" to create a
negotiated settlement, Barrena told reporters in the Basque city
of San Sebastian, echoing sentiments made earlier Thursday by
another leading Batasuna figure, Joseba Permach.


Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said the
December 30 bombing had ended his efforts to negotiate peace and
further tension came Wednesday when Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi
was brought before Spain's high court to answer charges of
"glorifying terrorism."


However, the prosecution retracted the changes and freed Otegi,
angering the right-wing opposition Popular Party (PP).


Earlier in the week, Otegi, while not condemning ETA attacks, had
appeared to distance himself from the group by saying violent
struggle was not the way to obtain independence, instead pleading
for "democratic means."


Barrena expressed similar sentiment.


"Multilateral non-violence is totally necessary to allow a
dialogue and political negotiation and, above all, a final
political accord," Barrena said.


The conciliatory language comes with Batasuna, which the Spanish
judiciary banned in 2003 over its alleged links to ETA, looking
for a chance to field candidates in May 27 municipal elections.


Basque regional president Juan Jose Ibarretxe of the moderate
nationalist Basque Nationalist Party said meanwhile that "ETA
owes Basque society definitive peace," and called on the group to
make a statement "clearly and explicitly" to that effect.

