

The US government and airlines Thursday hailed a landmark EU
decision to adopt an "open skies" accord that injects more
competition into transatlantic aviation.


US Transportation Secretary Mary Peters said the approval by EU
transport ministers would boost "economic, political, and
personal relationships between our two continents for years to
come."


"Tearing down regulatory barriers allows us to foster more
affordable and convenient air travel and gives our airline
industry more opportunities to compete, innovate and thrive," she
said in a statement.


The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on the EU's
behalf, says consumers will see up to 12 billion euros (16
billion dollars) in economic benefits as increased competition
brings downs ticket prices.


The European Union estimates the agreement could generate more
than 26 million extra passengers over the next five years and
create 80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa. But EU airlines will still not be able to operate
domestic American routes.


As a result, Peters said, "this agreement will spur growth within
our aviation network and enhance the freedom of American fliers
to choose where and when they travel."


Unanimous EU agreement on the deal was possible only after
ministers overcame British reservations about competition out of
London's Heathrow airport, by delaying the date of application to
the end of March 2008.


Currently, only British Airways and Virgin Atlantic of Britain,
and US carriers United Airlines and American Airlines, are
allowed to fly between the United States and Heathrow -- Europe's
busiest airport.


Continental Airlines, which now can only fly into London Gatwick,
lost no time in filing an application with Peters' department to
launch a new service from Houston to Heathrow by mid-2008.


"Our customers have always wanted more options for accessing
London, and the open skies agreement will allow us to give our
customers the convenience of choosing between Heathrow and
Gatwick for their London travel plans," Continental's chief
executive Larry Kellner said.


Delta Air Lines, which like Continental is confined to Gatwick
for its London routes, said before the EU ministers' decision
that it would press for "meaningful access" to Heathrow.


US airlines hope the pact will boost their recoveries from years
of turmoil. Delta and Northwest are still bankrupt. United, which
has come out of bankruptcy, has welcomed the new competition
despite the prospective entry of new rivals at Heathrow.


The Air Transport Association (ATA), which represents leading US
airlines, said the EU pact heralded "much-desired increased
service between the United States and Europe."


"It has the potential to provide enormous benefits to our
respective customers and economies," ATA president James May
said.


The agreement would also lift restrictions on EU carriers buying
big stakes in US airlines, although their voting rights in a US
carrier would remain capped at 25 percent, much to the chagrin of
Britain.

