

Fighting erupted between army troops and guards of defeated
presidential candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba in the Democratic
Republic of Congo capital on Thursday, killing at least two
civilians.


One member of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
died in the clashes, a diplomatic source said, while another was
killed when a floor of a bank hit by shells collapsed, injuring
several others, witnesses said.


Bemba, the former vice president who lost last year's
presidential election to Joseph Kibala, called for a ceasefire
after the fighting prompted residents to flee their homes and
schools and ministries to close.


"My message is a call to all parties for peace and calm and to
appeal for a ceasefire," he said on the UN-backed, independent
Okapi radio network, adding that he was ready to talk to "whoever
wants to see peace in this country".


Sources suggest a Belgian national was among those hurt in the
shelled bank, and the Belgian foreign ministry confirmed one of
its citizens was lightly injured during Thursday's fighting.


Elsewhere, sources said a person was hurt at the German embassy,
and a French national was injured in the centre of the city, near
the French embassy.


The fighting broke out near Bemba's home in the northern Gombe
district, where tensions have been high for several days
following the government's announcement that it would scale down
his military protection.


The sound of Kalashnikov assault rifle and machine-gun fire was
followed by that of rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs), and
government tanks were deployed into the neighbourhood, a UN
official said.


The UN mission in the DRC (MONUC) has began evacuating its
personnel and civilians caught up in the fighting, including 120
pupils and their teachers who had been trapped at the city's
French school since midday.


France's minister delegate for cooperation, Brigitte Girardin,
said MONUC was "finally evacuating them, little by little",
adding that the children were being taken to French ambassador's
house.


She was speaking to AFP by telephone from Brazzaville, the
capital of Congo which lies just across the Congo river from
Kinshasa, and said a shell had fallen behind Brazaville's town
hall.


The minister was due visit to visit Kinshasa on Thursday but has
now postponed it. However, she said: "I will do everything I can
to get there if the security situation allows it, possibly on
Friday. I haven't given up."


MONUC has called on both the government and Bemba, who was
elected a senator in January, to find a peaceful solution to the
crisis. It said its chief William Lacy Swing was in contact with
both sides.


A spokesman for European Union Development Commissioner Louis
Michel said the commissioner had spoken to both Bembe and Kabila
by telephone on Thursday and urged them to agree a ceasefire.


This could be based on Bemba recalling his forces in exchange for
negotiations over the kind of military protection he expected the
state to provide for him, the spokesman told AFP.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice-presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated as
president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Both Bemba and Ruberwa oppose the withdrawal of their military
protection begun a few days ago, saying a guard of 12 police
officers is insufficient.


Dozens of soldiers and UN armoured vehicles have been stationed
outside Bemba's residence since Tuesday amid fears of clashes
with his guards.


"Bemba's men stepped up their provocations this morning," a
security official said Thursday. "They left their perimeter (at
the residence) and were singing and dancing with red bands on
their heads in a sign of war."


As well as assault rifles, some carried spears and wore good-luck
charms.


A DRC military official said there was no immediate plan to expel
Bemba's forces, saying the objective was to secure the area.


But another Western official said the military was likely to try
to "finish with Bemba's men once and for all."


In August and November of last year, clashes between the
military, police and Bemba's guards led to about 30 deaths.

