

A Paris court Thursday acquitted the editor of a satirical French
weekly sued by two Muslim groups for publishing cartoons of the
Prophet Mohammed, in a case seen as a test for freedom of
expression.


Applause broke out in the courtroom at the announcement of the
verdict, which ruled that three cartoons published by the weekly
Charlie Hebdo in February 2006 were not insulting to Muslims.


The Paris Grand Mosque and the Union of Islamic Organisations of
France took Charlie Hebdo editor Philippe Val to court for
reprinting cartoons that first appeared in a Danish newspaper,
sparking angry protests by Muslims worldwide.


They argued that the images drew an offensive link between Islam
and terrorism and asked for 30,000 euros (38,750 dollars) in
damages.


Val welcomed the ruling and said it would open a much-needed
debate among Muslims in France. "If you believe as we do that
Islam is perfectly compatible with French democracy, such a
debate is a blessing," he said.


The court ruled that two of the cartoons were absolutely not
offensive to Muslims.


One, reprinted from Denmark's Jyllands-Posten, showed the prophet
standing on a cloud, turning away suicide bombers from paradise
with the caption "Stop, stop, we ran out of virgins."


The second, by the French cartoonist Cabu, showed Mohammed
sobbing, holding his head in his hands and saying: "It is hard to
be loved by fools", under the caption "Mohammed overwhelmed by
fundamentalists."


On the third cartoon -- showing Mohammed wearing a turban shaped
as a bomb, and first printed in Jyllands-Posten -- the court's
ruling was more nuanced.


The court decided that the caricature could potentially be
insulting to Muslims but that the context of its publication in
Charlie Hebdo made clear there was no intention to offend.


The president of the Union of Islamic Organisations of France,
Lhaj Thami Breze, said following the hearing that he intended to
appeal "because we are unhappy with the verdict."


"We don't understand, the judgement says that one of the drawings
is shocking but that it falls within the framework of freedom of
expression," said the group's lawyer.


But lawyers for the Paris Mosque said they would not challenge
the court's decision.


"It is a balanced verdict that respects both the right to
caricature and the possibility for a group of people to complain"
of what they perceive as an attack, said lawyer Christophe Bigot.


"This acquittal only refers to Charlie Hebdo, since the court
considered that it intended only to make people laugh, not to
cause offence," he said.


The trial was seen as an important test for freedom of expression
in France and large crowds crammed into the Paris courtroom
during hearings last month to hear the arguments put by both
sides.


Candidates in next month's French presidential election also
lined up during the trial to defend their ideas about religion
and freedom of expression, while a group of 50 intellectuals
including many French Muslims published an open letter urging
support for Charlie Hebdo.


The editors of Jyllands-Posten were acquitted in October of any
wrongdoing in a separate case in a Danish court and very few of
the dozens of newspapers worldwide that reprinted the cartoons
have faced legal action.

