

The Security Council was to debate changes Thursday to a draft
resolution toughening UN sanctions on Iran as sponsors stressed
the importance of a united response to Tehran's nuclear defiance.


The full 15-member Security Council was to meet behind closed
doors at 5 pm (2100 GMT) to discuss changes to a sanctions
package agreed by six major powers last week followed amendments
submitted by non-permanent members South Africa, Indonesia and
Qatar.


The original draft, crafted by the Council's five veto-wielding
permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States -- plus Germany, broadens sanctions already adopted
by the Council in December after Iran repeatedly refused to halt
uranium enrichment.


It would ban Tehran from exporting arms, call for voluntary trade
sanctions and expand a list of officials and companies targeted
for financial and travel restrictions.


Western powers believe Iran's nuclear program is a cover for
making atomic weapons. Iran insists it needs uranium enrichment
to produce fuel for generating electricity.


Meanwhile, Tehran announced it had launched naval military
exercises, codenamed "Power," in the Gulf in a display of the
Islamic republic's "power and defense capability."


"During these maneuvers frigates equipped with missiles,
warships, air-to-sea missiles and sea-to-air missiles are being
used, as well as tactical reconnaissance submarines," Admiral
Sajad Kushaki told state television.


"The Iranian people will not allow a single American soldier to
set foot on their soil."


In Paris, French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy spoke by
telephone with his South African and Qatari counterparts about
their respective amendments to the sanctions resolution, his
office said.


"We want to take as much time as necessary for this dialogue to
examine suggestions which have been made," French foreign
ministry spokesman Jean- Baptiste Mattei said.


"We are keen to maintain the unity of the international
community."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, on a visit to Qatar
as part of a Gulf tour, also discussed the nuclear issue with her
Qatari counterpart, Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jaber al-Thani.


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


But a South African proposal for a 90-day suspension of UN
sanctions to allow political negotiations with Tehran was
dismissed by the sponsors as "not consistent with the basic
construct" of the sanctions resolution, a Western diplomat said.


South Africa also suggested deleting the weapons ban and many
financial sanctions which, if accepted, Western diplomats said,
would gut much of the draft.


"Some of those amendments are quite reasonable and indeed add to
the value of the resolution," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
told reporters Thursday.


"We'll see tonight. If there is a feeling the 15 members of the
council are comfortable with the text, that the amendments are
acceptable to everybody, we could have a vote by the end of the
week," he added.


"For us and I think for others of the six (major powers), the
unity of the Council, a good atmosphere within the Council, a
respectful attitude toward each other is more important than the
exact timing, so if it takes a few more days (for a vote), so be
it," Churkin said.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said he plans to travel
to New York to attend the Security Council vote on the sanctions
and has been issued a visa by US authorities.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the
early 1990s during its transition from white minority rule, has
consistently defended Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful
purposes.


Its ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who chairs the Council this
month, said any new draft must respect Iran's "right to the
peaceful use of nuclear (energy)."


It should also assert the leading role of the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the UN nuclear monitoring group, in
determining the nature of the Iranian atomic program, Kumalo
said.


In Iran, supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei remained defiant
Wednesday, warning in a nationally televised speech that Iran
would do whatever it could to defend itself from force or the
threat of force.

