

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi on Thursday opened delicate
talks with unions and employers on the country's social safety
net, notably the thorny issue of pension reform and civil service
hiring.


Prodi said he wanted to raise the retirement age gradually from
the current 57 and to adjust the criteria for calculating
government pensions to take into account longer life expectancy.


He also told the unions that he would seek funds that will enable
the government to end a freeze on public service employment.


"The improvement in the public accounts allows for some limited
action," Prodi told reporters.


The talks come at a favorable moment for Prodi after news last
week that tax revenues this year will exceed forecasts by between
8.0-10 billion euros (10-13 billion dollars).


The announcement spurred numerous suggestions of how the windfall
could be spent, but Economy Minister Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa said
7.5 billion euros should be put aside for reducing Italy's
massive public deficit.


Prodi thus has around two billion euros at his disposal.


Padoa-Schioppa advocates tax cuts for business, but most unions
want to earmark the funds for families and workers with shaky job
security.


Pension reform in Europe's greyest country is a divisive issue
within Prodi's centre-left coalition, which includes far-left
elements as well as centrist parties.


The unions want to overturn a measure passed in 2004 under
Prodi's predecessor Silvio Berlusconi under which the retirement
age will rise from 57 to 60 in 2008.


Prodi is promising to improve retirement conditions for women and
for precarious and low-income workers.


The issue is the most delicate in the talks, which will also
cover Italy's competitiveness, reforming entitlement programmes
and overhauling public sector employment.


Italy has the oldest population of the 25 European Union
countries, with one in five people over age 65, according to the
national statistical institute (ISTAT).


Over 80s made up more than five percent of the population in
2005.

