

World oil prices jumped by more than a dollar on Thursday as
traders continued to look toward weak gasoline or petrol stocks
in the United States.


Gasoline is in focus ahead of the peak-demand driving season,
beginning May 31, when US drivers hit the roads for their summer
vacations.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
soared 1.58 dollars to 62.35 dollars per barrel during electronic
deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, added 1.77 dollars to 61.38 dollars per barrel
in floor trading.


"Oil prices have moved sharply higher today (Thursday) in the
wake of yesterday's supportive US inventory data," said Barclays
Capital analyst Kevin Norrish.


He added: "The US data are continuing to show a sharp tightening
(in supply), a dynamic which suggests scope for upside price
potential as we move into the second quarter."


The US Department of Energy (DoE) had said Wednesday that US
gasoline inventories sank by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million
in the week to March 16. The reading was heavier than market
expectations for a dip of two million barrels.


"Crude futures were higher (on Thursday), extending gains from
the previous session with support from a larger than expected
draw in gasoline stocks ahead of the summer when demand is at its
highest," said Sucden analyst Michael Davies.


"Gasoline stocks have declined for six weeks in a row,
underpinned by strong demand, refinery glitches and maintenance."


The DoE revealed Wednesday that US crude inventories meanwhile
rose by four million barrels to 329.3 million last week. That was
higher than analysts' consensus forecasts for a gain of just one
million barrels.


Meanwhile, the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) tried to soften global concerns about decreasing oil
supplies, saying it was committed to providing enough for world
consumption.


"OPEC is committed to ensure steady, secure supplies of crude oil
to all consumers at affordable prices both now and in the
future," OPEC president Mohammed al-Hamili told a conference in
Bangkok on Thursday.


"We are determined to develop sufficient production capacities in
tandem with growth in demand to meet world oil needs," said al-
Hamili, who is also minister of energy in the United Arab
Emirates.


The powerful cartel decided to leave its total daily output
unchanged last week at 25.8 million barrels at a ministerial
meeting in Vienna, arguing that global supply levels are healthy.


The 12-member cartel pumps more than a third of the world's oil
production and about four-fifths of proven crude oil reserves.

