

A UN human rights expert on Thursday accused Israel of turning
the Gaza Strip into a virtual prison under an apartheid-like
occupation of Palestinian territories.


"Gaza remains an imprisoned society into which the prison guards
have made frequent military incursions, killing hundreds of
Palestinians and wounding thousands in the second half of 2006,"
said John Dugard, the special rapporteur on human rights for the
Palestinian territories.


Dugard told the UN Human Rights Council that the situation in the
West Bank was "little better," with an increase in military
incursions by Israel, and the construction of a wall between
Israeli and Palestinian territory.


The human rights expert made the comments while he was formally
presenting a report on his missions to Palestinian territories
last year.


The report, which was already released to the media in February,
said elements of Israel's four-decades long occupation were akin
to forms of apartheid.


The South African academic pointed to the demolition of
Palestinian homes in the West Bank and East Jerusalem,
preferential treatment for Jewish settlers, and special permit
requirements for Palestinians that were not imposed on Israelis.


Israeli ambassador Yitzhak Levanon rejected the report as
"utterly one-sided, highly selective, and unreservedly biased,"
saying it did "nothing to solve the acute problems in our
region."


Levanon said there had been "a virtual 100 percent decrease" in
suicide bombings since the construction of the wall and rejected
Dugard's assertion that the wall could not be justified on
security grounds.


Israel has long refused cooperation with the UN special
rapporteur because his mandate does not extend to examining
violations of Israeli rights by Palestinians, including suicide
bombings and rocket attacks.


Dugard called for an advisory opinion from the International
Court of Justice on the Israeli occupation.


He underlined that while an occupation was regarded in legal
terms as lawful, and tolerated politically if not approved,
apartheid was contrary to international law.

