

The New York Times, often dubbed the "Gray Lady" of US
journalism, is moving aggressively onto the web, recently
launching no fewer than five new online projects within a week.


With a website attracting an average 440,000 visitors daily on
top of the 1.1 million print editions sold each weekday, the
Times sees the Internet as more of an opportunity than a threat.


Vivian Schiller, senior vice president and general manager of
NYTimes.com, explains to AFP.


Q. What is your development strategy online?


A. Almost 95% of the content of our website is free. ... We have
always been and have intended to be a largely advertising-
supported site, and actually we do very well in our advertising
efforts. ...


We have been making a concerted effort that started a little over
a year ago, and will certainly continue for the years to come,
into really building very robust sites around individual
subjects, especially feature subjects that are the strength of
the New York Times.


For example, one of the most important verticals that we launched
at the end of last year is our new travel site. ... We have our
own New York Times content, but also we have user-generated
content. ... What we found is that our readers not only enjoy
interacting with our reporters and our reporting, but they enjoy
interacting with each other.


The second category is what we call horizontal in our jargon,
that is all kinds of our interactivity and our community services
and our personalization tools that spread throughout every part
of the sites. ...


And the third category ... we want to export our content to any
place where audience might want to engage with us.


Q. What about video?


A. We really launched our video effort only a year ago, and it
started as something of an experiment. ... This small group
started producing pieces in tandem with our reporters and some of
our columnists and they started doing original reporting and it's
actually blossomed. And they've also been training reporters and
still photographers on videoshooting and reporting. And as a
result a year later, we're now posting about 25 original video
packages a week, with an average of two to four minutes. ...


We've launched a couple of series. For instance we have a series
we've just announced -- and we just ran the first one -- called
"In their own words," which are obituaries. What's unique about
them is they are first-person interviews with the subjects,
recorded obviously before they die, with the understanding that
those interviews would be embargoed until after they die. So
these are people telling their life story and leaving that as a
legacy on the NYT website.


Q. Do you separate your print and multimedia activities?


A. We made the decision over a year ago, and it's well under way,
to integrate our newsrooms. Before, we had a small group of
producers and journalists at the website and then you had 1,200
reporters at the newspaper. It was not a difficult decision to
make to integrate these sites and make sure that our journalists
were doing what they do, which is journalism, regardless of the
platform. So our integrated newsroom is now 1,250 people-strong,
and reporting ends up in the newspaper, it ends up online, it
ends up as a video, or as slide show or as interactive graphics,
you name it!


... We have over 35 blogs now, and a lot of our reporters have
really enjoyed blogging as a complement to filing stories,
because it gives them a chance to communicate to the reader in a
different voice.

