

The head of a pre-school centre hijacked a Manila bus and took 32
of his own pupils and two teachers hostage Wednesday in a plea
for housing and education, Philippines police and parents said.


Claiming to be armed with grenades and handguns, he and up to two
associates took control of the bus in the capital Manila after
earlier booking it for a field trip for the children.


A crack police team surrounded the bus outside Manila city hall
to try to convince the suspects to surrender.


One of the men, who identified himself as Jun Ducat, called a
Manila radio station and demanded free education as well as free
housing for a group of 145 pre-schoolers at Musmos Day Care
Center he runs in the city's depressed Tondo district, including
the hostages.


In his rambling discourse, Ducat pledged to "surrender"
peacefully if his demands were met. "I love these children,
that's why I am here. I will not start any shooting."


One of the teachers on the bus, Lyn Osita, said the children were
aged five or younger.


"The initial report we have is that 32 students and two teachers
are inside the bus and being held hostage by two men armed with
grenades and firearms," a Manila police officer told local radio.


Police later said there may be three men on board.


The suspects announced on a message written on cardboard and
mounted in the bus windscreen that they were holding the students
and teachers hostage.


They said they had machine pistols and grenades and had two days'
worth of food and water.


Parents who arrived on the scene told reporters that the main
suspect had hired the bus earlier in the day to take the children
on a field trip in the Tagaytay resort south of Manila.


Some of the children, who looked to be either pre-schoolers or
elementary school pupils, were seen peeking and waving from
behind the window curtains.


One of the hostage-takers was seen holding a child threateningly
while a woman, apparently one of the teachers, tried to pacify
the others.


"We have 32 children hostages and two teachers. We are armed with
two grenades, an Uzi (sub-machinegun), and .45 calibre pistols,"
they wrote in a notice they displayed on the bus windscreen.


Police later cautiously approached the purple-coloured bus with
their own cardboard sign, offering to bring a telephone into the
vehicle so the suspects could communicate with authorities.


Senator Alfredo Lim, a former Manila police chief, said Ducat has
a history of seeking attention.  He held hostage two Roman
Catholic priests elsewhere in Manila in 1987 using fake grenades
over a building contract dispute.


The priests were later freed unharmed and Ducat was charged, but
the case failed to finish, Lim told local television.


"I'm sure this will end peacefully as well," he added.


The bus drama was the second hostage crisis in the Philippines
capital in just over two weeks.


On March 14 police stormed a courthouse in the eastern Manila
district of Taguig and killed an ex-marine, ending a 24-hour
courtroom hostage drama that was caught live on national
television.


The man and his girlfriend had taken four hostages at a court
hearing over an eviction notice filed against him by one of the
hostages.

