

In a dark and damp room, a tearful Sarah sits on the carpet
feeding her 11 -month-old daughter Rand from a bottle of milk.


"This is the last portion for Rand. The tin of powder milk is
empty and we have no money to buy a new one," said the 28-year-
old Iraqi dentist and the mother of twins.


Sarah fled war-torn Iraq along with her husband and eight other
members of her family a few months ago after her father, an
official in the Iraqi education ministry, was shot dead as he was
walking out from a school.


Their brother, a former Iraqi army officer, was gunned down and
killed outside his home.


"When my father was killed, we received threats that his funeral
procession would be bombed. It was then that we took the decision
to leave the country," Sarah said.


"We were living in a nice villa in Baghdad, and now we are 10
people living in two tiny rooms, waiting for help," she said.


She and her family are among more than 8,000 Iraqis living in
difficult conditions in Lebanon, desperately awaiting the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to transfer them to a European
country.


The Sunni Muslim family is living in Beirut's Christian suburb of
Dikwaneh.


They have just one bed. Most of the family sleep on mattresses
laid over carpets that cover the cold floor. In the kitchen is
just a small stove.


"This is the only apartment that we could afford. The neighbours
are helping us, but how can we live in an unhealthy place where
we do not even see the sun?" said Omar Mohammed, a 33-year-old
computer engineer who is Sarah's brother.


"I have three children who all have chickenpox, and I can't
afford to get them medicine. We also have to keep them in a room
away from their twin cousins," he said.


"Now our main goal is to go and live in a European country where
human beings are treated with respect," he added.


The family uses clothes as curtains to cover the two windows of
the rooms to keep the eyes of curious onlookers away.


Describing their flight from Iraq, Sarah said: "We travelled in a
small bus, with no air-conditioning in the June heat. We
travelled 500 kilometres (310 miles) on the most dangerous road
in the world."


Since the US-led invasion of Iraq in March 2003, two million
Iraqis have fled their country and another 1.8 million have been
displaced within its borders, according to UN figures.


Every month, about 50,000 Iraqis leave the country in what has
become the biggest exodus in the Middle East since Palestinians
left their homes at the 1948 creation of the state of Israel to
become stateless refugees.


More than 600,000 Iraqis and perhaps as many as a million are now
in Syria, some 750,000 are in Jordan and at least 120,000 in
Egypt.


The Iraqi middle class is fleeing the envy of those who suffered
under Saddam Hussein's former regime, the greed of kidnappers and
murderous sectarian violence.


Sarah's family may be safe in Lebanon, but their troubles are not
over.


In a few days their three-month visas will expire, and they will
then become illegal residents in Lebanon, although a government
official told AFP that one renewal was allowed but after that
refugees must seek residency.


"It is nearly impossible for us to get residency in Lebanon
because it is a very complicated and expensive procedure," said
Omar.


"We will become illegal residents and we will be wanted by the
police."


One government source said that in fact police would not be
hunting refugees but if refugees were stopped and found without a
valid visa they would be escorted to the border to Syria where
Iraqis do not need visas.


But the situation is unsettling for the whole family.


"And to top it all, the UNHCR only gave us an appointment to
consider our situation in August! What will be do until then?" he
asked.

