

Pakistan's cricket team began arriving home amid tight security
Wednesday as detectives probing the murder of coach Bob Woolmer
denied the squad have been ruled out as potential suspects.


Allrounder Yasir Arafat landed at Islamabad international airport
early Wednesday, an AFP photographer said. "I can't make any
comment at the moment," Arafat told waiting media as he was
driven away by a male relative.


Captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and some squad members were expected to
arrive in the eastern city of Lahore later Wednesday, while other
players were due to touch down in the southern port city of
Karachi, sources said.


Officials were cagey about giving details.


Police said they would provide security for the players in case
of trouble from cricket fans who were upset by Pakistan's shock
World Cup exit to minnows Ireland just hours before Woolmer's
death at the tournament in Jamaica.


"We are deploying police at the airport. We will not allow people
to go near the players," Lahore police chief Malik Iqbal told
AFP. "The players will be provided mobile police escorts as
well."


Karachi police chief Azhar Farooqi said he had "given orders to
the concerned police officials to ensure full security for all
those players who will be arriving here."


"Police will escort the players from the airport to their homes
and will not allow any untoward incident," he said.


Vice captain Younis Khan and batsman Mohammad Yousuf returned to
Karachi late Monday.


The Pakistani players have come via Dubai and London, where they
kept a low profile for two days following their doomed World Cup
trip.


Team spokesman Pervez Mir said the players had no safety fears
about returning home, although he admitted that Pakistani fans
would be disappointed with their performance.


Speaking outside the team's hotel near London's Heathrow Airport
Tuesday, Mir said the team "was never a suspect".


However Jamaican Deputy Police Commissioner Mark Shields disputed
Mir's "pretty inaccurate statement, because nobody at this stage
can be ruled out of the inquiry."

