

Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said Wednesday the
world should treat rich and poor countries equally in its attempt
to avoid a catastrophic human pandemic from bird flu.


He said efforts at tackling the disease varied unevenly across
the globe depending on an individual country's capabilities.


"Such a discrepancy can be harmful to global efforts to avoid a
potential pandemic," he said. "As long as there is a loophole in
the system, even the best protected countries and regions are not
safe."


Indonesia has raised concerns about poorer countries' access to
future flu vaccines in the event of a pandemic, fearing
pharmaceutical firms will develop expensive treatments that
developing nations will struggle to afford.


The president said that the world's response to bird flu should
put "equality between countries" at its centre.


"This is everybody's business, because if one is at risk, all are
at risk," he said.


Yudhoyono was speaking in the capital, Jakarta, at a meeting
Wednesday about sharing bird flu virus samples globally for
tests, a process experts say enables them to track and tackle the
disease.


Indonesia said earlier this year that it had stopped sharing
samples with the World Health Organisation (WHO) because of its
concerns that drugs firms would exploit them to develop costly
vaccines.


But the country worst hit by bird flu lifted the ban on Tuesday,
following two days of international talks, after agreeing a deal
with the WHO under which firms will need permission from a
country for access to its virus samples.


The United States welcomed Indonesia's decision to lift the ban,
saying the world had to cooperate to fight bird flu.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari said at Wednesday's meeting
that developing countries accounted for the majority of the
world's population and were the most vulnerable to a human flu
pandemic.


She said there was an urgent need to determine how to "have at
our disposal supplies of vaccines that are affordable and
available in sufficient quantities," in the event of a pandemic.


"It is important to stress that developing countries must be
assured of equitable access," to any future bird flu vaccine, she
said.


Experts say the world lacks the capacity to produce enough
vaccines to protect everyone at risk in the event of a worldwide
pandemic.


Indonesia has recorded 69 human fatalities from bird flu, the
world's highest toll, from 89 cases. Most human infections have
occurred after contact with sick birds.


The WHO says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has infected 282
people and killed 169 of them, mostly in Southeast Asia, since
2003.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

