

Argentina scrapped Tuesday a deal with Britain to share oil found
off the Falkland Islands days before the 25th anniversary of its
invasion of the British territory that it claims as its own.


Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana said Argentina decided to end the
cooperation arrangement because Britain "unilaterally" opted to
put out for public bid oil deals in the area in the South
Atlantic.


"Argentina does not oppose cooperating with the United Kingdom,
so long as this contributes to reopening talks about the islands'
sovereignty," Taiana told reporters after meeting with President
Nestor Kirchner.


"Argentina has asked the United Kingdom for open dialogue" on the
Falklands, Taiana said. "Unfortunately, the persistent
intransigence of the United Kingdom has not allowed for frank
discussion."


Buenos Aires continues to claim sovereignty over the islands,
which the country's then military junta invaded on April 2, 1982.


More than 900 people died, including 655 Argentines, 255 British
troops and three islanders, before Argentine forces surrendered
on June 14, 1982. Argentina returned to democracy in 1983.


"The only way to solve this anachronistic colonial dispute is in
a pacific, just and lasting manner," Taina said.


Taiana said he had informed Britain's ambassador to Buenos Aires,
John Hughes, about the decision to end the oil deal.


Seismic studies around the archipelago indicate as much as 60
billion barrels of crude lie in ocean-bed structures.


A joint declaration on South-west Atlantic Offshore Cooperation
Activities had sealed the deal to share oil exploration and
production, on September 27, 1995.


Argentine former president Carlos Menem had said that the
declaration would "allow Argentina to join the exploration and
exploitation of crude in the area," Taiana said.


"But in practical terms, it never happened," the foreign minister
said.


Test wells drilled in 1998 by Shell and Amerada Hess hit oil,
though not of sufficient quality or volume to be marketable.


Ten-dollar-a-barrel oil at the time was not attractive, but
recent rising prices could spark greater interest in the seas off
the islands.


Some fear that Buenos Aires would take even keener interest in
the islands if oil were struck there.


Argentina has repeatedly reaffirmed its "permanent and
inalienable objective" of reclaiming the islands, which have been
British-ruled for 174 years.


Argentina finds it "incomprehensible" that Britain refuses to
discuss the claim although the United Nations and Organization of
American States urged the countries to "renew bilateral
negotiations."


The two governments re-established diplomatic relations in 1990.


Argentina says British forces occupied the islands on January 3,
1833, and "removed by force its residents and Argentine
authorities who were established there legitimately."

