

A Greenpeace ship that protested Japan's controversial Antarctic
whaling hunt was on Wednesday barred entry to Tokyo Bay after
opposition from the sailors union.


The "Esperanza" was due to dock in the bay as part of the
environmental group's anti-whaling campaign, but it was
effectively banned when the agent handling her arrival pulled
out.


The Dutch-flagged ship was drifting without using fuel near
Oshima island outside of Tokyo Bay, and Dutch diplomats were
working to find a place it can dock, Greenpeace said.


"I think it's very much a case of using politics to shut down
freedom of speech," Greenpeace spokeswoman Sara Holden said by
satellite phone from aboard the vessel.


"We made it very clear that we wanted to come and have a dialogue
with the government, whaling authorities and people of Japan,"
she said. "We have food and water so we're not planning on going
anywhere in a hurry."


Tokyo, one of the world's busiest ports, requires ships to submit
applications ahead of arrival.


Murayama Shoten and Co., which had been Greenpeace's agent, said
it decided Tuesday no longer to assist the ship's entry after a
visit by representatives of the sailors union.


"It was our president's decision to suspend all work related to
the 'Esperanza' after union officials visited us with their
letters of protest," said Masae Nagayasu from Murayama Shoten,
saying the company feared "turmoil" between union members and
Greenpeace.


The All Japan Seamen's Union branded Greenpeace a "terrorist"
group.


Japan each year enrages Western environmentalists by sending a
fleet to the Antarctic Ocean to hunt whales, using a loophole in
a global ban on whaling that allows killing the giant mammals for
scientific research.


Japan this year cut short its expedition, killing just over half
of its intended catch, after a fire on one of its ships.


The radical Sea Shepherd environmental group had clashed with the
whalers, at one point tossing acid onto the deck of a ship.


Greenpeace condemned Sea Shepherd's activities and offered to
help the stricken whaling boat.

