

A Pakistani soldier and two other people died Wednesday when
security forces battled Taliban militants in a northwestern town
after rebels kidnapped a school principal, officials said.


Military helicopters circled over the town of Tank after the
five-hour clash overnight, the latest in a wave of violent
incidents in the increasingly "Talibanized" Pakistani regions
that border Afghanistan.


The fighting began when militants fired rockets and mortars at
government installations and private property in Tank, which
adjoins the lawless South Waziristan tribal region, the officials
said.


Security forces retaliated and a soldier of the paramilitary
Frontier Constabulary was killed in the clash, local police
official Noor Aslam told AFP. Two unidentified bodies were found
in the town's bazaar, he said.


Two guards at local banks were also injured, he added. Six banks
were also hit, along with a paramilitary fort, a college and some
government installations.


"We could not sleep, there were so many rockets exploding. They
lit up the night sky," said local resident Alam Gul.


On Monday police clashed with Taliban recruiters outside a high
school in Tank, leaving a local extremist leader and a policeman
dead.


Gunmen late Tuesday took revenge by abducting the school
principal, Farid Mehsud, and his brother, their family said.


The principal had asked for police protection after local Taliban
visited his school and others in a bid to recruit youth to fight
"jihad" or holy war against NATO and US forces in Afghanistan.


Officials and rights groups have expressed concerns that
extremists demanding the imposition of Islamic Sharia law are
gaining increasing influence in northwest Pakistan.


A bomb in a weapons bazaar near the northwestern city of Peshawar
on Tuesday night damaged a call centre belonging to a man who had
previously received threatening letters from militants calling
him a "government spy".


Tuesday's blast in the Darra Adam Khel arms market caused no
casualties. It apparently targeted a man named as Humayun, who
was shot in the leg last week and only left hospital two days
ago, residents said.


Local Taliban militants earlier this month circulated a pamphlet
listing about a dozen people including Humayaun and some tribal
elders as "Intelligence Dogs."


The militants, in line with Taliban in other parts of the region,
also warned barbers not to shave off beards and asked people to
shut snooker clubs and video shops.

