

Gunmen massacred 45 men in the northern Iraqi town of Tal Afar in
an apparent Shiite reprisal for deadly bombings that killed 75
people there, officials said on Wednesday.


"We received 45 bodies of handcuffed and blindfolded men from al-
Wahada neighbourhood overnight. They were killed yesterday just
after the bomb," a doctor at Tal Afar hospital told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


The shootings and bombings underscore the raging Sunni-Shiite
sectarian warfare that has gripped Iraq alongside a Sunni-led
insurgency against the Shiite-led government and its US backers.


Two bomb attacks in Tal Afar killed 75 and wounded 190 on Tuesday
in Shiite districts of the mixed Sunni-Shiite town, which is
witnessing its deadliest violence since US President George W.
Bush in March 2006 held up the onetime militant stronghold as a
model for efforts to create a stable Iraq.


In the biggest attack, a suicide bomber tricked soldiers into
believing he was bringing in food supplies to a Shiite area where
he detonated his cargo of flour and explosives into a crowd of
waiting men and women.


Lieutenant Colonel Mohammed Ahmed Salah, a spokesman for the
Iraqi army in Mosul, the capital of Nineveh province that is home
to Tal Afar, confirmed there had been a "reprisal act".


"A violent incident happened (on Tuesday) and a reprisal act
happened in al- Wahada, which is in the south of the town, just
after the bombings," the officer said.


"The situation is under control right now and we have started an
investigation into the incident."


The Iraqi army has slapped a strict curfew on the town, deployed
armoured vehicles in downtown Tal Afar and banned even police
from moving, an official said, also on condition of anonymity.


The apparent style of killing by handcuffing and blindfolding the
victims indicated that the brutal slaughtering was the work of
Shiite gunmen, known for such execution-style slaying of Sunni
Arabs.


US officials also announced on Wednesday the deaths of two more
servicemen and a government contractor in Iraq.


The contractor, a US citizen, died on Tuesday after being wounded
a day earlier by rocket fire near the embassy in Baghdad's
heavily-fortified Green Zone, the seat of the US mission and the
Iraqi parliament, US charge d'affaires Daniel Speckhard said.


One soldier was killed on Tuesday and another wounded in a
separate indirect fire attack also in the Green Zone, the
military said Wednesday.


A US marine also died on Tuesday after being attacked during
combat operations in the western Sunni province of Anbar, it
said.


The latest casualties brought the military's losses in Iraq since
the March 2003 invasion to 3,237, according to an AFP count based
on Pentagon figures.


US Democrats, meanwhile, scored a victory in the Senate in the
fight to withdraw US troops from Iraq with the Senate voting
50-48 against a Republican amendment that would have removed the
pullout timetable.


Democrats beat an attempt by Bush's Republicans to strip a
provision in a war spending bill that would set a March 31, 2008
deadline to withdraw troops from Iraq.


"Today was a significant step forward in our efforts to change
course in Iraq and makes America more secure," Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid said.


"The president must change course, and this legislation gives him
a chance to do that," he said.


Bush has already stated that he will veto the bill if it
stipulates a timeline for troop withdrawal.

