

Democrats have scored a victory in the Senate in the fight to
withdraw US troops from Iraq, but the Congress majority still
faces a long road ahead amid stiff opposition from President
George W. Bush.


Democrats beat back Tuesday an attempt by Bush's Republicans to
strip a provision in a war spending bill that would set a March
31, 2008 deadline to withdraw troops from Iraq.


The Senate voted 50-48 against a Republican amendment that would
have removed the pullout timetable. A vote on the entire spending
bill, with the withdrawal date, could take place as soon as
Wednesday.


"Today was a significant step forward in our efforts to change
course in Iraq and makes America more secure," Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid said after Tuesday's vote.


"The president must change course, and this legislation gives him
a chance to do that," he said.


The legislation would impose a binding requirement for troop
withdrawal to begin 120 days after passage.


Democrats already succeeded in setting a withdrawal timeline in
the House of Representatives as the lower chamber passed last
week its own 124-billion-dollar version of the emergency spending
bill with a deadline to get troops out of Iraq by August 31,
2008.


If the Senate legislation passes, the two chambers will have to
negotiate to reconcile the bills. But Bush has vowed to veto a
withdrawal timeline.


The president "is disappointed that the Senate continues down a
path with a bill that he will veto and has no chance of becoming
law," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said in a statement
after Tuesday's vote.


Both the House and Senate require a two-thirds vote to override a
presidential veto, but the Democrats are unlikely to gather the
necessary votes.


"This is not one battle; it's a long-term campaign to persuade
the president, to pressure the president to change course. And we
will keep at it," said Senator Chuck Schumer.


"We make no mistake about it, we have many more steps to go. But
we will persist until we get there," the New York Democrat said.


Democrats have said voter disgust with the course of events in
Iraq prompted many voters to choose them over Bush's Republican
party in the November elections that gave them control of
Congress.


With Iraq teetering on the brink of civil war, they said, it is
time to accelerate moves to withdraw US forces.


"Nothing else has been successful in convincing the Iraqis that
they have to take responsibility for their own country, and that
they must make the political compromises that are necessary to
end the sectarian violence and defeat the insurgency in Iraq,"
Senator Carl Levin, top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said before Tuesday's vote.


"Only when the Iraqis realize that the mission of US forces in
Iraq is changing and that we are going to reduce the number of US
forces in Iraq, will they realize that we cannot save them from
themselves and that they need to act to meet the commitments they
made to us and to themselves," he said.


The defeated Republican amendment, introduced by Senator Thad
Cochran, came on the second day of Senate debate over spending an
additional 121.6 billion dollars for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.


"We need to be speeding this funding to our troops rather than
slowing it down by returning to a debate already settled by the
Senate," Cochran said as he introduced his measure this week.


Another prominent Republican, Senator Sam Brownback, who is
running for the US presidency, said the bill has the effect of
"giving the terrorists a reason to be hopeful."


"We need to stop talking about how to retreat and start talking
about winning in Iraq," he said Tuesday.


The Democratic funding bill is 20 billion dollars more than the
president's 103 -billion-dollar request, and includes some
domestic spending measures such as Hurricane Katrina recovery.

