

Gemma Arroyo was near hysterical as she reached the police line
cordoning off the bus in downtown Manila where her six-year-old
daughter was among 32 children being held hostage.


"Please, please sir, let our children out," Arroyo wailed as she
tried to break through the police line.


She said she had thought her daughter was at a mountain resort,
the destination of the pre-school's field trip, when she heard
the news.


"They do that every year and then I saw the hostage drama on
television. My heart broke," Arroyo told AFP, tears streaming
down her face.


Nearby another terrified mother was screaming hysterically,
demanding that police and negotiators do something to get the
children freed.


Police cordoned off an entire block around Manila city hall as
anxious parents and relatives tried to make sense of why the head
of the pre-sechool centre himself, Jun Ducat, had taken his young
charges hostage.


"He told us it was a field trip. We knew Mr Ducat and he has been
very kind. Please let our children go," said Clara Moreno. "They
are innocent. We know you set up the school, so we don't
understand why you are doing this."


She said she feared for her son, Reynard, because he easily gets
scared by guns and armed men on television.


Claiming to be armed with grenades and handguns, Ducat and two
other associates hijacked the bus and demanded to go on the
airwaves.


In a rambling message aired on local radio, Ducat said he was
upset because many people remained poor and that rich politicians
were not doing enough to shore up the economy.


He pledged not to harm the children but promised to prolong the
crisis if the government failed to meet his main demand -- that
145 pre-schoolers, including the hostages, be given free housing
and education until college.


"Even if our blood would spill, I will not fire a gun," Ducat
said, before demanding that Senator Ramon Revilla, an action
movie star he claims to be a friend, negotiate on his behalf.


After 45 minutes, Revilla convinced Ducat to free one child and
said the hostage taker wanted to get more air time.


"He wants candles and batteries for his cell phone. The children
are okay. He just wants to talk," Revilla said. "He promised not
to hurt anyone. But his hands were shaking while he was holding
the grenade."


"I think this may last until nightfall," he said, describing
Ducat as a "man of principle" who can be tenacious when he wanted
to.


Revilla the negotiated for ice cream and food for the children,
who peeked from the window and waved their hands.


Senator Alfredo Lim, a former Manila police chief, said Ducat had
a history of seeking attention. He held hostage two Roman
Catholic priests elsewhere in Manila in 1987 using fake grenades
over a building contract dispute.


The priests were later freed unharmed and Ducat was charged, but
the case failed to finish, Lim told local television.


"I'm sure this will end peacefully as well," he added.


Ducat's son, Buboy, said his father had been railing about
poverty and dirty politics and wanted his voice to be heard.


Authorities said Ducat was a successful businessman and building
contractor who had run for various local electoral posts but
never won.


"I don't have an idea why he did this," he said.

