

Prime Minister John Howard insisted he felt no joy Wednesday at
"Aussie Taliban" David Hicks' guilty plea, although colleagues
admitted it took the political heat off his government as an
election looms.


Hicks' fate was becoming an election embarrassment for the Howard
government, with opinion polls showing anger at Canberra's
apparent lack of action over the Australian held for five years
without trial at Guantanamo Bay.


But analysts and government lawmakers said the 31-year-old Muslim
convert's guilty plea Tuesday on a charge of providing material
support for terrorism undermined the view that he was a victim
railroaded by US military justice.


They also said moves to have Hicks serve any sentence in
Australia would help blunt perceptions that the father of two
teenaged children had been abandoned overseas to satisfy close
ally Washington.


Howard, whose conservative coalition will seek a fifth term at
the end of the year, played down the political implications of
the guilty plea, saying his concern had always been the lengthy
delays in bringing Hicks to justice.


"Nothing can alter the fact that Hicks has now pleaded guilty to
a charge of aiding a terrorist organisation," Howard told
commercial television.


He dismissed a suggestion from Hicks' father, Terry, that the
government had pressured his son to plead guilty to solve a
political problem and that the prime minister would be "throwing
his hands up with glee" at the result.


"I am not into glee or vindication and the process is still
underway and I'm not responding to that," Howard said.


But government senator Barnaby Joyce, who this year broke ranks
and condemned as "a sham" the US military commission set up to
try Hicks, said the Australian's guilty plea had reduced his
political potency.


"It certainly mitigates (Hicks' plight) as an issue quite
seriously," Joyce said.


"Mr. Hicks has pleaded guilty and unfortunately that means that
he has condoned, in a fashion, the process that he's under."


Hicks was captured in Afghanistan in 2001 after a US-led invasion
to overthrow the Taliban regime following the September 11
attacks on New York and Washington, then transferred to the US
military's Guantanamo Bay base in Cuba.


The former kangaroo skinner, described as dabbling in "drugs and
Satan" by childhood friends in Adelaide, was accused of
undergoing training at an Al-Qaeda camp in Afghanistan and
volunteering to fight alongside the Taliban.


Australian National University political science professor John
Warhurst said Hicks was unlikely to remain an election issue if
he was sentenced and transferred to an Australian prison before
the poll.


"The government probably hopes the issue has been defused and it
will quietly go away but it remains unpredictable and could flare
again," he said.


"Particularly if Hicks gets to tell his own story and tells of
brutality and coercion."


Australian celebrity publicist Max Markson said public interest
in Hicks was so high that he could command a million dollars
(809,000 US) for an interview.


"He could make an absolute fortune, everyone wants to talk to
him," Markson told the Sydney Morning Herald website smh.com.au.


"(The public) want to know his personal story... both the
official version and the unofficial one. Then there'll be the
book and then there'll be the movie," he added.

