

Malaysia is not worried by wealthy neighbour Singapore's bid to
host a Formula One Grand Prix race, the supremo of the nation's
top international track said Wednesday.


Mokhzani Mahathir, chairman of the Sepang International Circuit
(SIC) told AFP the move by Singapore would create more regional
awareness and interest in the sport.


"No, we are not jittery. Singapore will offer a street-circuit
race. We have a permanent circuit here. I am sure Singapore will
host a wonderful race," he said.


"I am not worried with the FI roar down south. With Singapore
hosting the race, it will only create more interest and we will
probably get more spectators at Sepang," he said on the sidelines
of three-day testing here ahead of the April 8 Malaysian Grand
Prix.


But the 45-year-old Mokhzani warned the F1 race should not be
held back-to-back, as that would "damage spectatorship."


"If you do that, then you will cannibalise spectatorship. You
will damage the sport in both countries," he said.


Commercial negotiations are under way and the Singapore
government is prepared to offer support for hosting a Formula One
race in the city-state.


Singapore's Minister of State for Trade and Industry S. Iswaran
had told his parliament the country was taking a "very serious
look" at hosting an F1 race.


Singapore's founding father Lee Kuan Yew said two years ago that
he regretted not having built a Formula One racetrack to generate
more money for the local economy.


Malaysia's Sports Minister Azalina Othman Said reportedly said
last Friday that "Singapore should be bidding for different kinds
of sports and not the same events which Malaysia is already
hosting."


The government last week said it was committed to ensuring that
Malaysia remained one of the legs of the F1 race beyond 2010.


Malaysia hosted their first F1 Malaysian Grand Prix in 1999 and
last year promoters SIC renewed the contract for another five
years.


Mokhzani said some 50,000 tickets had been sold for next month's
race, adding that some 50 percent of the spectators were expected
to be foreigners from Singapore, Indonesia, India, Australia and
Germany.


"It meets our tourism agenda," he said, adding tourists were
expected to spend at least 400 million ringgit (1.14 million
dollars) during the three-day race period on accommodation, food,
transport and entertainment.


The SIC has put an ambitious sales target of 125,000 tickets for
the April 8 race.


Mokhzani backed Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone's push to
stage F1 Grand Prix at night.


"For me it makes commercial sense to host a night race. It is
cooler to race here and we think we can get more people to come
and watch at Sepang," he said.


Mokhzani said Sepang Circuit officials were already in talks with
lighting consultants on what lights could be used to make the
track bright minus the glare and shadow to ensure safety.


Ecclestone wants to include a number of night races on the F1
schedule as early as next season.

