

Up to three men armed with grenades and handguns hijacked a bus
and took 32 children and two teachers hostage in the Philippine
capital Wednesday, police said.


A crack police team surrounded the bus outside Manila city hall.
The children were apparently on a field trip.


One of the suspects, who identified himself as a Jun Ducat, later
called a Manila radio station and demanded free education as well
as free housing for a group of 145 pre-schoolers, including the
hostages.


"The initial report that we have is that 32 students and two
teachers are inside the bus and being held hostage by two men
armed with grenades and firearms," a Manila police officer told
DZBB radio.


Police later said they believed there were three hostage takers,
having miscounted in the confusion.


The armed men announced on a message written on cardboard in the
bus windscreen that they were holding the students and teachers
hostage.


The suspects said they had machine pistols and grenades.


Terrified children, who looked to be either pre-schoolers or
elementary school pupils, were seen peeking and waving from
behind the window curtains.


One of the hostage-takers was seen holding threateningly on to a
child while a woman, apparently one of the teachers, tried to
pacify the children.


"We have 32 children hostages and two teachers. We are armed with
two grenades, an Uzi (sub-machinegun), and .45 calibre pistols,"
they wrote in a notice they displayed on the bus windscreen.


Police later cautiously approached the purple-coloured bus with
their own cardboard sign, offering to bring a telephone into the
vehicle so the suspects could communicate with the authorities.


In a rambling discourse, Ducat pledged to "surrender" peacefully
if his demands were met.


"I love these children, that's why I am here. I will not start
any shooting."


The school bus drama was the second hostage crisis in the
Philippines capital in just over two weeks.


On March 14 police stormed a courthouse in the eastern Manila
district of Taguig and killed an ex-marine to end a 24-hour
courtroom hostage drama caught live on national television.


The man and his girlfriend had taken four hostages as they
appeared in court over an eviction notice filed against him by
one of the hostages.

