

Two major Japanese companies on Wednesday announced new plans to
assist workers with families as the country tries to cope with a
declining birthrate.


Matsushita, maker of the Panasonic brand, said it will let nearly
half of its workers work at home at least once a week, while
Internet conglomerate Softbank said it will give payouts to
workers with children.


Japan's birthrate is hovering at record lows, spelling a future
demographic crisis, as more young people decide that children
would be a burden to their careers or lifestyles.


Softbank Corp., led by Japan's richest person Masayoshi Son, said
it will provide five million yen (42,700 dollars) to each
employee who becomes a parent -- along with a mobile phone for
their child.


Under the plan starting next week, employees who have worked for
Softbank for at least a year who have their fifth child will
receive the full five million yen as congratulations.


The lowest payment will be 20,000 yen for parents who have their
first child and have worked for less than a year for Softbank.


In addition to regular maternity and child-care leave, employees
with children will also be given an extra five days of "kids
holidays," a rarity in the country known for its long working
hours.


"Because the average age of our employees is young, many of them
are expected to have children. Providing child care support is
one of our core management policies," said Softbank spokeswoman
Makiko Ariyama.


Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., the electronics giant best
known for the Panasonic brand, also said it would begin its
telework programme on April 1, the start of the new financial
year.


Some 30,000 of Matsushita's 76,000 employees in Japan, excluding
factory workers, safety inspectors, secretaries and some others,
will be eligible to work from home starting on April 1, it said.


Under the programme, applicants will be allowed to work from home
once or twice a week on average, with the company loaning out
computers and cameras to them for on-line conferences.


The stay-home workers will do their jobs through high-speed
Internet lines and report their hours to their supervisors by
e-mail or telephone, the company said.


"Tackling the concerns of rapid ageing and the low birthrate is a
common task for both the management and the labour union," said
company spokesman Akira Kadota.


"The programme will allow our employees to have job flexibility
to take care of children or the elderly," the spokesman said.


"On the other hand, it will allow the company to secure talented
workers as the country is faced with the problem of an ageing
society," Kadota said. "We have to change ourselves in accordance
with a change in society."


The elderly made up some 20 percent of Japan's total population
in 2004 -- and that number is expected to soar past 35 percent by
2050 unless the country can turn around the declining birthrate.


The Nikkei business daily predicted that Matsushita's move would
lead to more calls to ease Japan's strict labour regulations.


IBM Japan Ltd., which adopted a work-from-home policy for all
personnel in 2001, has led the way in telecommuting in Japan.
Depending on the department, roughly 30 percent of IBM Japan
workers telecommute one or two days a week.

