

Knees shaking, Chen Cheng explains why his parents have sent him
to a clinic for Internet addicts.


The 17-year-old high school student was a superman in cyberspace
-- once spending three days and nights playing online games,
uninterrupted by meals or sleep.


But he paid the price offline.


"I had no sense of achievement from anything I did in the
physical world," the bespectacled youth said.


Here at the Internet Addiction Treatment Centre in Beijing's
southeastern suburb of Daxing, he is put through a strict regimen
that might as well be boot camp -- and for good reason, since
this is an army-run clinic inside a military district.


The 20-odd teenagers at the centre, all placed here involuntarily
by their families, get up at 6:30 am for long days of physical
training and team sports, mixed with quiet therapy sessions with
psychiatrists.


In one room inside the bleak barracks-style building, more
serious cases are treated with low-voltage electrical jolts via
pins inserted into the skin according to the prescriptions of
traditional Chinese medicine.


"Not everyone has to do this, but we suggest it for patients who
have serious problems with sleep," said Wang Yanbin, a doctor who
was carefully monitoring that the electrical current does not
exceed safe levels.


"We apply this three to five times over a 10-day period, and the
results are usually very good."


The primary purpose of it all: To isolate the patients from the
Internet, which so far has been an overwhelming influence on
their lives.


The secondary purpose: To teach them there is a life beyond
cyberspace.


"Some of the kids here live in another world. They assume the
role of kings or wizards. To use a Western expression, their soul
has left for the other side," said Tao Ran, the centre's founder
and director.


The centre seeks to remedy this through a direct encounter with
the physical world. The students do their own laundry. They play
with toy guns, and paint with brushes.


The centre is one of an estimated 30 clinics scattered across
China that have been set up to deal with Internet addiction, a
growing problem in a country with 137 million online users.


The price for a month-long stay at the Beijing center is nearly
10,000 yuan (1,300 dollars), or a year's salary for many Chinese,
and only a tiny minority can send their children for treatment
here.


But Tao estimated China has altogether 2.5 million Internet
addicts, overwhelmingly young, male and attracted to online
games, and he considers it a troubling problem.


"The violence and sex of the games is likely to have a very deep
influence on them. And it's having this impact during the years
that the personality is formed," he said.


"Close to 40 percent of the kids here show violent behaviour.
They may start fighting over trifles."


-- Internet addiction a problem among Chinese teenagers --


Internet addiction among teenagers has become a social problem,
the state-run Xinhua news agency said recently.


It cited a recent survey showing that 33.5 percent of juvenile
delinquency cases in the Beijing area -- including rape and
robbery -- were linked to excessive time spent on games.


"It is common to see students from primary and middle schools
lingering in Internet bars overnight, puffing on cigarettes and
engrossed in online games," Yu Wen, a lawmaker, told Xinhua.


The Beijing clinic, which was China's first when it opened in
late 2004, has treated more than 1,500 people aged from 14 to 36,
and claims to have a 70 percent success rate.


Junior high school students account for 30 percent of patients
and senior high school 50 percent, while the remaining 20 percent
come from university.


While the vast majority are youngsters from China, it has also
accepted ethnic Chinese patients from Canada, Malaysia and
Sweden, as well as an American who had to communicate via an
interpreter.


The clinic is relatively strict during the first 10 days. Doors
and windows are locked.


"Some of the patients go nuts when they realise they can't
leave," said Guan Peihong, a 17-year-old high school student from
northeast China's Heilongjiang province. "They scream and shout
that they want to get out."


Later during their stay, the patients are allowed outside on
small errands. But this privilege is sometimes abused.


Not long ago a group of four youngsters were taken out by a staff
member but ran away, only to be discovered later in an Internet
cafe, according to Tao.


When that happens, the clinic responds by putting the patients in
a room equipped with just a bed and a desk.


"We give them a book to write down their thoughts: why did he run
away? What do they want to do with their lives? It takes about
two to three days. It's not the same as locking them up," said
Tao.


"These children have just been playing all day long for their
entire lives. They've never had a chance to think about their
future. Some come up to me and themselves request to be put in
the room."


So does it work? Some patients, such as 17-year-old Chen Cheng,
have stopped thinking so much about playing Internet games,
mainly because they have developed other, more immediate
priorities.


"I definitely have had the desire to get online. But now I feel
it less. I'm just eager to get out," he said Chen.


Tao is optimistic the problem can be solved and he is eager to
emphasise that he is not on a crusade against the Internet.


"Overall," he said, "the Internet is good for China."

