

One of Southeast Asia's most wanted suspects, Noordin Mohammad
Top, is believed to still be in Indonesia, a senior Indonesian
police officer said Wednesday.


"We believe he is still in Indonesia and still alive," said
Senior Superintendent Tito Karnavian, head of intelligence at
Detachment 88, an elite US-trained unit of the Indonesian
National Police.


Noordin, a Malaysian, was a key member of the Jemaah Islamiyah
(JI) extremist network, which authorities have blamed for a
series of deadly attacks including the 2002 Bali bombings that
killed 202 people.


Fellow Malaysian Azahari Husin, a JI bomb expert, was killed in a
police last November, while Noordin narrowly escaped arrest
during a separate raid that month.


Analysts say the two had possibly split off to form a more
hardline group before Azahari's death.


Karnavian said he believed Noordin is not directly connected with
suspected militants arrested in recent raids in the Indonesian
cities of Yogyakarta and Surabaya. Police found explosives and
books on "jihad" during the raids.


"It is a different faction," he said, adding that the seven
militants arrested during the raids are believed to belong to a
JI group under Abu Dujana.


Karnavian was speaking to reporters after delivering a
presentation to the Global Security Asia conference on "homeland
security".


In the Surabaya raid, Indonesian police found about 12.5
kilograms (27.5 pounds) of TNT, 14 kilograms of other explosives,
20 detonators and 101 books on jihad, a police spokesman said on
Monday.


Last week, one man was shot dead and another injured during a
raid on suspected JI militants in Yogyakarta, police said.


Detachment 88 has killed or arrested more than 200 members of
Jemaah Islamiyah, Rohan Gunaratna, head of the International
Centre for Political Violence and Terrorism Research at
Singapore's Nanyang Technological University, told the conference
on Tuesday.


But despite the police success in targeting JI cells, the group's
structure remains intact, he said.

