

Shovel in hand, Refat finishes another of the make-shift cabins
mushrooming across Ukraine's Crimea and swears his family will
never again be evicted from their homeland.


"We left our souls in this land. We weren't convicted of anything
but they refuse to exonerate us," said the bushy-moustached
Tatar, who declined to give his surname, as he smoothed the earth
floor of one of the many brick cabins being built across Crimea.


Six decades after the Soviet deportation of their entire ethnic
group to Central Asia, returning ethnic-Tatars are pushing to
regain their historic lands.


However their highly politicised struggle is also fuelling a much
wider struggle in which Ukraine and former master Russia are
vying for influence in this idyllic and strategic Black Sea
peninsula.


Crimea has a history as a battleground between rival powers.


Today the issue of what to do with Tatar returnees and their land
claims is pitting the country's increasingly pro-Western
leadership in Kiev, who cautiously support the Tatars, against
the administration in Crimea, which is part of Ukraine but
strongly pro-Russian.


It is also feeding into disagreements between Kiev and Moscow
over a naval base Russia leases from Ukraine in Crimea.


The base sits uneasily with Ukrainian President Viktor
Yushchenko's goal of joining NATO, while Moscow is inclined to
see the installation as a bulwark against foreign powers, notably
Turkey.


Turkey is "reaching for a piece... of the Crimean pie," Russia's
Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper warned in a recent piece on the
Tatars.


When eastern Europe broke free from Moscow in 1991 little
attention was paid to the plight of the Crimean Tatars, a Muslim
people who trace their roots to Mongol leader Genghis Khan,
although they have also long inter-married with Turks and
Russians.


The Tatars bear a painful collective memory of the day in May
1944 when Soviet soldiers swept through Crimea giving each
household 15 minutes to pack and deported over 180,000 of them by
train to the deserts of Central Asia.


Officially they were being punished for alleged collaboration
with Nazi Germany. Tatars argue this was a fiction cooked up by
Soviet leader Joseph Stalin to justify a brutal ethnic
engineering programme.


The deportees and their descendants have been returning since the
late 1980s and there are now 260,000 of them in Crimea.


But unlike in the Baltic states, which also suffered in Stalin's
deportations, the Tatars have no rights to reclaim property as
they have not been officially exonerated by Ukraine's government.


Many have resorted to seizing greenfield sites, some of which had
already been allocated to Russian landowners. There are now 300
such villages.


"My grandmother died on the way to Central Asia and her body was
thrown off the train and left in Kazakhstan without burial," said
another resident, Zira Budor.


"We're blamed for everything, but it was so that my sons wouldn't
turn into hooligans or criminals that I came to get this land,"
she said, showing off a meticulously tidy one-room cabin, its
floor made of warehouse storage palletes.


Russian community leaders have lobbied against the Tatars'
"rehabilitation" and say they should simply buy their own houses
on the market.


There have been occasional clashes. The two sides nearly came to
blows last August when Tatars demanded the removal of a market
from a 15th century Muslim cemetery in their historic capital,
Bakhchiserai.


Oleg Rodivilov, an ethnic-Russian member of the Crimean regional
assembly, warns against granting privileges on an ethnic basis
and does not hide his scorn for the Tatars' unofficial assembly,
the Mejlis.


He says what is happening is a chaotic land grab.


"One can't say today that Tatars don't have the necessary
conditions for living or obtaining land.... Many in the Mejlis
are children or grandchildren of collaborators," Rodivilov told
AFP.


This is dismissed by Mustafa Jemilev, the Mejlis' head, who
sports a Turkish- style fez at public functions.


Jemilev says land seizures should be orderly and coordinated,
with proper consideration by local Mejlis councils of conflicting
claims.


"We're doing everything we can to prevent a conflict," said
Jemilev. "We believe there are still 100,000-150,000 Crimean
Tatars outside Crimea. They'll also come back."


But behind the scenes Tatars are split over the seizures as some
worry it will discredit their cause, says the deputy curator of
the 16th century palace of the Crimean Khans in Bakhchiserai,
Oleksa Haiworonski.


He suspects covert Russian backing for land seizures and says
some in Moscow would like to provoke a conflict. He points to
increased activity in Crimea by far right Russian youth groups as
well as the youth organisation Proryv (Breakthrough), which backs
separatists in nearby Moldova's Transdniestr region.


"The story of the land is just part of a larger project of
splitting the Crimean Tatars," said Haiworonski. "Russia is
waiting to accuse the Crimean Tatars of Islamic terrorism."


His concern is echoed in Kiev.


"I'm struck around town by how worried people are about" Crimea,
said a Western diplomat.


"It's all about a deliberate and malign legacy from Stalin and it
takes a lot of hard work to work through this. In the meantime
there is a real risk of problems," he said.


Tensions are also growing over the base that houses Russia's
Black Sea fleet.


For the Tatars the base symbolises their marginalisation during
more than two centuries of Russian dominance.


Kiev has agreed to let the base stay until 2017, but the
arrangement is strained.


Russia has recently deployed small groups of soldiers to guard
lighthouses that it controls along a swathe of Crimea's western
and southern coast, says Yury Leshchenko, the Ukrainian-appointed
keeper of the lighthouse at Crimea's southern point, Sarych.


Leshchenko has refused to move out of the lighthouse compound,
which now flies the Russian flag, but is barred from entering the
lighthouse itself.


"This is a sovereign state. How can a sovereign state not be
responsible for the shipping off its own coast?" he demanded.

