

The European Union on Wednesday kickstarted membership talks with
Turkey, which have been at a standstill since June, an EU
diplomat said.


EU ambassadors agreed that Turkey could begin negotiations,
probably on Thursday, on one of the 35 policy chapters that each
aspiring country must complete to join the rich European club.


The chapter concerns "enterprise and industry policy", the
diplomat said, on condition of anonymity. The German EU
presidency confirmed that the talks would resume at a "technical
level" on Thursday morning.


The move comes three months after the EU froze eight of the
chapters to punish the government in Ankara for its failure to
fully extend its customs agreement with the bloc to EU member
country Cyprus.


Those chapters all concern trade and external relations. When the
freeze was announced, the EU also criticised Turkey's human
rights record, especially on freedom of religion and women's and
minority rights.


Mainly-Muslim Turkey's membership talks, which began in October
2005, have been plagued by difficulties and the only policy
chapter to be opened so far was "science and research" in June.


Turkey refuses to open its ports and airports to Greek Cypriot
traffic until the EU lives up to its pledge to end the isolation
of the Turkish Cypriot statelet in the north of the island, which
is recognised only by Ankara.


Under the freeze, chapters can be opened but not closed until the
problem is resolved.


Paradoxically, EU officials have said, the decision to stop part
of the negotiations, had given impetus to talks on chapters not
linked to the Cyprus trade dispute.


Cyprus was divided in 1974 when Turkey seized its northern third
in response to an Athens-engineered coup in Nicosia aimed at
uniting the island with Greece.


On January 22, the 27 EU countries agreed to work towards lifting
the trade isolation of the far poorer north of the divided
island.


Work towards the adoption of "special conditions for trade" with
the north "must resume without delay," EU foreign ministers said
in joint conclusions from a meeting in Brussels.


In 2004, after the Greek Cypriots rejected reunification plans in
a referendum, the European Commission, the EU's executive arm,
proposed financial aid to the north of the island, which voted to
unite Cyprus.


A total of 259 million euros in EU aid has been approved for
northern Cyprus where fewer than 200,000 people live.

