

Thailand's junta chief General Sonthi Boonyaratglin said
Wednesday that he has asked the government to declare emergency
rule in Bangkok to crack down on anti- coup protesters.


"I have proposed to the prime minister that he invoke emergency
rule in order to maintain law and order," Sonthi told AFP in a
telephone interview.


Anti-coup protesters have been holding weekly rallies against the
junta, attracting a small but growing crowd that reached 2,000
people last Friday.


The protests have so far been peaceful, but Sonthi said he was
afraid the protest movement could gather steam, much like the
mass street demonstrations last year that eventually led to the
coup against then-prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra.


"I have consulted with the prime minister on the current
situation and have explained to him that this current situation
would lead to mutiny and chaos in the country," he told AFP.


"It's up to the prime minister" to decide on whether to declare
emergency rule in the capital, he said.


Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont has the power to declare
emergency rule with his cabinet's approval. The government has
kept three southern provinces hit by an Islamic insurgency under
emergency rule since mid-2005.


Sonthi made the call just two months after martial law was lifted
in Bangkok. He had imposed martial law on Thailand immediately
after seizing power on September 19, but has now lifted it across
half the country.


Declaring emergency rule would give authorities many of the same
powers they had under martial law.


The government would be able to detain suspects without charge
for 30 days, and would have the power to seize and destroy
anything deemed a threat to national security or to impede the
work of the authorities.


Emergency rule also gives the government tough censorship powers
as well as the right to impose a curfew and to ban public
gatherings, while giving security forces broad immunity from
prosecution.


Use of the provision in Thailand's south has been broadly
condemned by human rights groups, who say it creates a climate of
impunity that has worsened the conflict there.

