

When US presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton sang the "Star-
Spangled Banner" at a campaign rally in Iowa, little did she know
that her off-key rendition would become a smash hit on the Web.


A video clip of the out-of-tune moment posted on YouTube, the
wildly popular video sharing site, has been viewed more than 1.1
million times since it was posted in January, attesting to the
power of the Internet in driving the 2008 US presidential
campaign.


One after another, candidates are lining up to capitalize on the
opportunities offered by the powerful medium, hiring managers to
jazz up their online campaigns and adding video to their websites
as well as to sites like YouTube.


Several candidates, including Clinton and rising Democratic star
Senator Barack Obama, announced their campaigns on the Web and
some have launched online chats, thus bypassing traditional media
to reach out directly to voters.


"What the candidates are learning now is that the Internet is an
intimate medium where someone is going to click on your face and
you are going to talk to them, and that's very important," said
Jeff Jarvis, head of the interactive journalism program at the
City University of New York's School of Journalism and creator of
PrezVid.com, which examines online video.


"Candidates now have a chance to speak directly to people,"
Jarvis told AFP. "It's different than being in front of a
cheering crowd."


According to a recent survey by the Pew Internet and American
Life Project, twice as many Americans turned to the Internet as
their primary source of news during the November elections
compared with the 2002 elections.


"The percentage of Americans who reported they went to the
Internet for most of their political news in 2006 more than
doubled, from seven percent to 15 percent," according to a Pew
report.


And experts expect those numbers to be even higher during the
2008 election season, as more people with broadband connections
learn how to surf on the Web and how to access blogs and video
sites.


"This probably is the year we learn and write new rules about how
to integrate all of these new interactive instant media
technology such as blogs, Facebook or YouTube into campaigns and
elections," David Perlmutter, a professor and associate dean of
graduate studies at the University of Kansas school of
journalism, told AFP in a recent interview.


"Right now, a lot of people are experimenting and speculating and
really just making stuff up as they go along but we're going to
learn some lessons ... because nobody has written the rule book
yet," added Perlmutter, author of "Blogwars: The New Political
Battleground".


Perlmutter and others predicted that as sites like YouTube
continue to grow in popularity, voters will increasingly form
their opinion about candidates based on information from
cyberspace rather than from the mainstream media or official
campaign messages.


"I think in this campaign, video is going to be the big change,"
Jarvis said.


Already, politicians are learning how to roll with the punches as
voter- generated content ads compete and often beat out official
campaign clips.


One example is a video of Democratic candidate John Edwards
combing his hair before an interview to the tune of "I Feel
Pretty". The video has eclipsed all of his official campaign
videos.


Another hot video on YouTube this month is a remade version of
Apple's famous 1984 Super Bowl commercial. The pro-Obama clip,
which has been viewed by nearly 2.5 million people since it was
posted March 5, features Clinton as a "Big Brother" type figure.


A rebuttal by the pro-Clinton camp came this week with a video
called "Barack 1984".

