

Thailand's junta chief said Wednesday that he has asked the
government to declare emergency rule in Bangkok to crack down on
swelling anti-coup protests.


General Sonthi Boonyaratglin told AFP by telephone he was afraid
a protest movement could gather steam, even though the rallies
held to date have passed off peacefully.


Declaring emergency rule would give the authorities many of the
same powers they held under martial law following the September
19 coup that brought them to power.


"I have proposed to the prime minister that he invoke emergency
rule in order to maintain law and order," Sonthi told AFP in an
interview.


"I have consulted with the prime minister on the current
situation and have explained to him that this current situation
would lead to mutiny and chaos in the country," he added.


"It's up to the prime minister" to decide on whether to declare
emergency rule in the capital, he said.


Anti-coup protesters have held weekly rallies against the junta,
attracting a small but growing crowd that reached 2,000 people
last Friday.


Sonthi said he feared the protests could pick up steam, much like
the mass street demonstrations last year that eventually
triggered the coup against the then premier Thaksin Shinawatra.


Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont, who was installed by the junta,
has the power to declare emergency rule with cabinet approval.


He has not commented on the proposal, but Thailand's national
police chief endorsed the idea.


The government has maintained three southern provinces under
emergency rule since mid-2005 because of a raging Islamic
insurgency.


Sonthi's call came just two months after martial law was lifted
in Bangkok. He had imposed martial law on Thailand immediately
after the coup, but has now lifted it across half the country.


The government would be able to detain suspects without charge
for 30 days and have the power to seize and destroy anything
deemed a threat to national security or that would impede the
work of the authorities.


Emergency rule also gives the government tough censorship powers
and the right to impose a curfew and to ban public gatherings,
while giving security forces broad immunity from prosecution.


Use of the provision in Thailand's south has been widely
condemned by human rights groups, who say it creates a climate of
impunity that has worsened the conflict there.


The acting national police chief, General Sereepisut Taemeeyaves,
said he supported tough measures to curb political protests,
either through emergency rule or a new declaration of martial
law.


"Personally I think the government must take extra precautions no
matter what we call them, rather than allow the country to slip
back into disorder," he told reporters.


"The government is likely to issue additional measures but I
don't think it will affect the general public."


Sereepisut said police rather than military would be deployed to
the scene of the next planned protest Friday.


The protests have been led by allies of Thaksin and joined by
other groups opposed to the military government.

