

A Ukrainian swimming coach has been banned from making contact
with his daughter after they were filmed fighting here in what a
leading athlete called another example of "that ugly parent
syndrome".       Mikhail Zubkov, 38, has been thrown out of the
championships and police issued a domestic violence order against
him.


It prevents contact with 18-year-old daughter Kateryna Zubkova, a
2004 European champion backstroker, or coming within 200 metres
of her.


World swimming's governing body FINA were Wednesday to hold a
disciplinary hearing to determine the man's fate after
withdrawing his accreditation.


The seven-minute skirmish happened Tuesday evening in the
marshalling room at Rod Laver Arena where the swimmers gather
before a race and was captured on camera by host broadcaster
Channel Nine.


Victoria state police superintendent Mick Williams said the
images were "disturbing" and police held concerns for the girl's
safety.


He added that police were investigating whether any criminal
charges could be laid.


The girl, the holder of eight Ukrainian national titles, has been
interviewed by police and examined by a doctor who found she was
uninjured.


She competed in the 50m backstroke heats Wednesday morning and
won but finished 18th overall, missing out on the semi-finals.


"The advice I've got is she was quite open and frank, and did not
hold back about what the incident was about," Williams told
reporters.


Melbourne 2007 director Michael Scott said the scenes were
"unacceptable".


"It is unacceptable in Australia, it is unacceptable anywhere
else in the world that sort of behaviour," Scott told reporters.


"It is a very serious matter. FINA have advised us they have
withdrawn the accreditation of the individual immediately.


"FINA will conduct their own investigation into that matter and
announce their outcome as soon as possible."


One of Australia's best-known swimmers, two-time Olympic champion
Kieren Perkins, said the "ugly parent syndrome" captured on
television was not rare in sport and that the swimming community
would be appalled.


"As a father (I was) shocked, just unbelievable," he told
Southern Cross Broadcasting.


"You know that stuff goes on, but to actually see it is
extraordinarily confronting and there's just never a
justification for it.


"As a swimmer, it's not the first time I've seen it and it
probably won't be the last time I see it.


"It's frightening - that ugly parent syndrome which you talk
about - it's out there and it's something that needs to be
addressed and dealt with. How? I don't know.


"It's the greatest destruction of an athlete's career. They think
they're trying to motivate and push their kids. But all they're
doing is fast-tracking them to oblivion."

