

Internet giant Google, which already handles 30 percent of the
world's online advertising, is pushing ahead with new ad formats
for television, cell phones, video, newspapers and radio.


Tim Armstrong, Google's vice president for advertising sales,
talked to AFP about what the future will bring.


Q. What ad formats are you testing?


A. We are testing TV targeted ads right now. We are also testing
online video, prints and the radio business. Newspapers tests are
going well. We have 50 newspapers now and we are going up to a
hundred. For video, the video world has been waiting for us to
come out with our ad model for YouTube. We are taking our time to
make sure that we come out with a model that is really good for
end users. We are testing many types of formats: Do you have
video ads in the back end or pre-roll, do you have any video ads,
do you put brandings around the video, can you let the users
interact with ads and choose the ads that they get? We don't have
a date confirmed but we (might) launch an ad program on YouTube,
video ads and video related ads, during the course of 2007. We
don't plan to do behavioral targeting on the Internet. And we
will always be concerned about privacy.


Q. Will mobile ads become as significant for Google as online
ads?


A. We launched mobile ads in Japan last year, and now we have
mobile ads running across the globe. Mobile business in general
is very quickly fast growing in terms of users connected on the
Internet with mobile phones. For mobile ads, during our tests in
Japan we learned a couple of key things: To keep people on a
mobile phone is time sensitive, we saw a very high conversion
rate from the ads (people ending up buying something) and mating
messages on the phone when its relevant. ... We expect mobile ad
revenues to grow. In the world one to two billion people (are) on
line today -- there will be as many people connected to the
Internet with their mobile phone within the next four years. It
should be a pretty significant market.


Q. What advertisers use Google for online advertising and how
much do they spend?


A. We have a very large scale of advertisers, and several
hundreds of advertisers who spend enough for television. Some
small and medium companies spend an extraordinary amount of money
on search, from 10,000 to five million dollars, and could do very
well adding video format. A very expensive keyword, like
"computer recovery," may cost 20 dollars. I can decide to spend
10,000 dollars, and the ad will stay up until I run out of
budget. But most people leave their budget on all the time, they
don't shut them off. Because if, for every 100 clicks I get 20
people sending their computer, and I charge 1,000 dollars to
repair the laptop, I am never going to turn my budget off.

