

Fallout from the Iraq war has prompted a new "realism" in US
foreign policy, which is edging out early Bush administration
ideals of promoting democracy around the world, analysts say.


US President George W. Bush pushed hard for reform in the Middle
East during his first term in office, and still says that
ideological change is an integral part of what he calls the "war
on terror."


And Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said she was "really
concerned" last week on the eve of an Egyptian constitutional
referendum that opponents said was certain to curb freedoms.


Experts say the crippling war in Iraq has forced Washington to
pursue "realist" policies over Bush's earlier "idealist" ways.


"The failure of US policy in Iraq has provided autocratic regimes
in the Middle East a reprieve from the pressure to democratize,
as long as they position themselves clearly on the side of
Washington in its looming confrontation with Iran, Syria, and
Shiite Islamists," said analyst Marina Ottoway of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace.


"The lofty ideals of democracy promotion may still find their way
into the administration's speeches, but when it comes to policy,
America's enemies' enemies are its friends."


Ottoway said Saudi Arabia and Egypt have been "the biggest
beneficiaries of the US loss of interest in draining the swamp of
autocracy once it was confronted by large alligators such as Iran
and its allies."


For Thomas Carothers, another expert at the Carnegie Endowment,
dictators of the world have beat back democratic principles by
presenting them as a new manifestation of US imperialism.


"The way that President George W. Bush is making democracy
promotion a central theme of his foreign policy has clearly
contributed to the unease such efforts -- and the idea of
'democracy promotion' itself -- are creating around the world,"
he wrote in the latest issue of Foreign Affairs.


"Some autocratic governments have won substantial public sympathy
by arguing that opposition to Western democracy-promotion is
resistance not to democracy itself, but to American
interventionism.


"Moreover, the damage that the Bush administration has done to
the global image of the United States as a symbol of democracy
and human rights by repeatedly violating the rule of law at home
and abroad has further weakened the legitimacy of the democracy-
promotion cause."


Egypt and Saudi Arabia are not the only countries to benefit from
US support while turning a deaf ear to calls for democratic
reform.


Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf, who just ousted the chief
high court justice in what opponents call a power grab, recently
received a surprise visit from US Vice President Dick Cheney who
simply urged him to do more to fight Al- Qaeda extremists along
the border with Afghanistan.


Azerbaijan, under iron-fisted rule by President Ilham Aliev who
succeeded his father in 2003, last week signed an energy deal
with the United States.


And in US-ally Colombia Bush has been content with President
Alvaro Uribe's efforts to control his territory and fight narco-
terrorism despite a scandal linking government officials and
extremist paramilitaries.

