

Unable to feed millions of its own people, North Korea has made
an abrupt about- face and asked the World Food Programme to
increase its aid, an official with the United Nations agency said
Wednesday.


Following a visit to the isolated nation, where hundreds of
thousands died from famine in the 1990s, WFP Asian regional
director Tony Banbury said officials told him there was a food
shortfall of one million tonnes.


"They have asked WFP to expand assistance to meet the gap,"
Banbury told reporters in Beijing.


The shortage amounts to at least 20 percent of North Korea's food
needs, meaning that up to one-third of the nation's 23 million
people will require food assistance until this year's harvest
comes in, he said.


The request signals an abrupt turn-around by the Stalinist
regime, which announced cutbacks to a decade-long WFP food
assistance programme at the end of 2005 after trying to rid
itself entirely of its dependency on the UN agency.


The shortfall was exacerbated last year as the scaled-back WFP
programme coincided with floods in June and August that
devastated critical croplands.


"Right now we are losing the fight against hunger in the DPRK.
The DPRK faces a chronic food security problem," Banbury said,
referring to North Korea by its official acronym for the
Democratic People's Republic of Korea.


The WFP is currently engaged in a two-year assistance programme
with North Korea that aims to provide 150,000 tonnes of food aid
for 2006 and 2007.


But the food is enough to cover just three percent of the
nation's population, according to Banbury.


From 1996 to 2005, North Korea was the largest recipient of WFP
aid, but the Stalinist regime routinely baulked at the agency's
food monitoring activities, which were implemented to ensure that
aid reached the most needy, he said.


The WFP has sought to ensure food reaches children, nursing and
pregnant mothers, and the elderly, Banbury said.


The WFP delivered more than four million tonnes of food valued at
1.7 billion dollars and supported up to one-third of the North
Korean population during the 10-year period starting in 1995.


But amid the worsening crisis, the WFP has faced increasing
problems raising donations from around the world for North Korea
due to disenchantment over its nuclear and other weapons
programmes.


Donating nations have also frequently voiced concerns that the
Stalinist regime channels food aid to the military, the political
elite and key cities such as Pyongyang.


The United States, South Korea, Japan and China, the main
providers of assistance to North Korea, reduced shipments last
year, Banbury said, as the isolated nation tested a nuclear
weapon and ballistic missiles.


Banbury said the WFP did not link North Korea's food needs to the
politics surrounding its nuclear programme.


"Our support is not to the DPRK government, it is to the DPRK
people," Banbury said.


He welcomed an agreement on February 13 in six-party disarmament
talks in which China, South Korea, the United States and Russia
agreed to supply North Korea with more aid if it dismantled its
nuclear weapons programmes.


"We are hopeful that there will be a conclusion of those
discussions soon and that the parties involved in those talks
will provide assistance through the WFP," Banbury said.


"The problem is, we can't wait. The people of the DPRK can't
wait."


In an effort to expand aid to the impoverished nation, WFP has
begun to seek increased aid from donor nations within the
framework of the ongoing two-year aid package, Banbury said.


"If the donors don't respond, millions of people will go hungry,"
he said.

