

Newspaper circulation is plunging and web traffic soaring. Armies
of citizen- journalists are rising across the land to power a
communications revolution in words and video.


If times are a-changing in the United States and elsewhere,
nowhere are they changing faster than in the world of media.


AFP will move shortly a series of features on the future of US
media, their potential, pitfalls and impact on the average
American. The fully illustrated package comprises:


US-media-Internet


WASHINGTON


Traditional US media are fighting an uphill battle against
Internet news websites and citizen journalists, despite question
marks over the credibility of the Web and copyright problems.


600 words by Jean-Louis Doublet. Picture. Graphic


US-media-Internet-newspapers


NEW YORK


As advertisers and readers abandon traditional newspapers in
their droves for Internet websites, American newspapers are
increasingly looking to their online editions for solutions.


700 words by Catherine Hours. Picture. Graphic


USA-media-Internet-newspapers-NYT


NEW YORK


The New York Times, often dubbed the "Gray Lady" of US
journalism, sees the web as an opportunity more than a threat. An
interview with Vivian Schiller, senior vice president and general
manager of NYTimes.com.


600 words


US-media-Internet-IT-citizen


SAN FRANCISCO


Bloggers have become the new columnists. Bystanders with digital
cameras cameo are spot news photographers. And folks with
personal causes have branded themselves investigative reporters.
The new world of citizen journalism.


900 words by Glenn Chapman. Picture


US-media-Internet-television


NEW YORK


The traditional television box may lose its place of honor in the
sitting room to a crop of new devices that send films and shows
straight to screens and telephones via the Internet.


700 words by Laurence Benhamou. Picture


US-media-advertising


NEW YORK


When you go to the web site of the New York Times, the
advertisements you'll see are not there by accident. The computer
knows where you've been on the Internet; it has a feel for your
tastes. You're being targeted.


700 words by Laurence Benhamou


US-media-advertising-Google


NEW YORK


Internet giant Google, king of the world's online advertising,
has big plans for television, cell phones, video, newspapers and
radio. An interview with Tim Armstrong, Google's vice president
for advertising sales.


500 words.


US-media-Internet-Lifestyle


WASHINGTON


Reading your newspaper over a steaming cup of coffee will be a
thing of the past in years to come as video and digital
technology replace the print media of today, experts say.


675 words by Virginie Montet


US-media-Internet-vote-2008


WASHINGTON


When US presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton sang the "Star-
Spangled Banner" at a campaign rally in Iowa, little did she know
her off-key rendition would become a smash hit on the Web and
show power of the Internet in politics.


650 words by Jocelyne Zablit. Picture

