

Most modern mammals can be traced to a surge in biodiversity that
occurred long after the dinosaurs were wiped out, according to a
new study that challenges a keystone theory about life on Earth
today.


The mainstream view is that the dinosaurs were killed some 65
million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous era, possibly by
an asteroid that whacked into Earth, kicking up a pall of dust
that cooled the planet and destroyed the vegetation on which the
dinos depended.


When the "terrible lizards" shuffled off, the mammals that had
been quietly waiting in the wings happily took over, according to
this theory.


They leapt into freshly-vacated habitat niches and quickly
diversified, bursting into the lineages that gave us the mammal
species we see today.


But a paper that appears on Thursday in the British journal
Nature says that mammalian biodiversity grew in two significant
phases. One took place millions of years before, and the other
took place millions of years after the end of the Cretaceous.


Olaf Bininda-Emonds of the Technical University of Munich,
Germany, and colleagues compiled a genetic "family tree" of
almost all today's 4,500 mammal species.


Using a molecular clock based on a species' rate of evolution,
they thew time in reverse, estimating when these mammals
underwent genetic change.


Over a 160-million-year span, mammals underwent a first burst of
diversification around 93 million years ago. The ancestors of
today's primates, rodents and hoofed animals first appeared on
the scene around 75 million years ago or later.


But far from universally benefitting from the end of the
Cretaceous, mammals were badly hit by the catastrophe. Many
mammalian species, like the dinosaurs, bit the dust.


A second diversification then happened about 35 million years
ago, thus long after the twilight of the dinosaurs. This second
burst was particularly important, for it yielded the lineages
that became present-day mammals.


The cause for this second splurge of biodiversity is unclear, but
it could be linked to a rise in global temperatures called the
Cenozoic thermal maximum, say the authors.


"The big question now is what took the ancestors of modern
mammals so long to diversify," said one of the authors, Ross
MacPhee, curator of vertebrate zoology at the American Museum of
Natural History.


"It's as though they came to the party after the dinosaurs left,
but just hung around while their distant relatives were having a
good time. Evidently we know very little about the
macroecological mechanisms that play out after mass extinctions."

