

Reading your newspaper over a steaming cup of coffee will be a
thing of the past in years to come as video and digital
technology replace the print media of today, experts say.


"We know that broadband digital networks will be widespread and
broadband wireless too," said Andrew Nachison, president of
Ifocos, a media think tank.


Nachison predicted that podcasts, or video messaging, as well as
blogs, books and Internet sites will become accessible via
wireless and mobile video services as the technology evolves.


"It's pretty obvious that digital connection is going to be like
oxygen to our culture," he said. "We are witnessing an explosion
of video creation and we're entering an era where video is
everywhere."


Already, studies are showing that the number of newspaper readers
in the United States is dwindling as cyperspace gains ground.


One recent report by the Pew research center in Washington found
that 43 percent of Americans today turn to the Internet for news
as opposed to 17 percent who rely primarily on a national
newspaper.


Amy Eisman, head of the school of communication at American
University in Washington, said consumers in the future can expect
to find their news in the palm of their hand.


"Video, Internet, audio, entertainment, we have the feeling that
more and more is going to be on handheld devices," Eisman said.
"Much more wireless broadband will be available globally ... and
information will be probably less text-based than visual."


Nachison agreed, adding that technological changes will allow
information to converge into a single device.


"A phone, a video camera, a GPS device, a personal communicator,
that's the stuff we see today," he said. "When you start to look
10 years out, that gets harder."


He said videos will become the dominant medium for information
with consumers able to download them on demand via the Internet
or mobile phones.


"We are witnessing an explosion of video creation and we're
entering an era where video is everywhere," Nachison said.
"People are going to make video continuously.


"It won't be a special activity, it will be a normal activity the
way we type email is a normal activity now," he added. "Instead
of getting text alerts on our phones, we'll get little video
alerts."


With that in mind, newspapers as we know them may become a thing
of the past in the not so distant future, experts say.


In 2006, for example, some 18,000 jobs were eliminated in
newsrooms across America, an 88 percent increase over 2005 when
9,453 job cuts were announced.


"Print may be dying," Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for
Excellence in Journalism, which annually publishes a report on
the state of the media in America, told AFP. "I can't tell you
whether newspapers will be printing in 10 or 15 years."


At the last annual "We Media" conference in February, which looks
at the state of the media and is organized by Ifocos, experts
predicted that consumers in the future will have access to a
small media reader that will be flexible, very thin and light-
weight and can be wrapped like a newspaper except that it will be
digital.


On the economic front, advertising revenues are expected to
change drastically as ads on the Internet are not as lucrative as
those in newspapers.


"Advertising revenue of a web site is about 30 percent of what
the newspaper equivalent would be," Rosenstiel said.


"For every dollar I make from a print reader, I'm only making
about 30 cents if that person becomes an online reader."


He said he expects that to be offset by an increase in the price
of Internet access and cable.


"The scale of news enterprises is simply going to be crushed,"
Nachison said. "The revenues are going to decline and that will
be challenging for the economics of journalism."

