

Israel will be at the mercy of the "lords of war" if it does not
accept an Arab proposal to recognise its existence in exchange
for its withdrawal to pre-1967 borders, Saudi Arabia's foreign
minister said in an interview published Wednesday.


Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, Prince Saud al-Faisal also
dismissed the prospect of any further diplomatic overtures to
Israel.


"What we have the power to do in the Arab world, we think we have
done," Saud told the Telegraph from Riyadh, where a two-day
summit aiming to revive the dormant peace plan opens on
Wednesday.


"So now it is up to the other side because if you want peace, it
is not enough for one side only to want it. Both sides must want
it equally."


Several world figures, including UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana, will attend the
inaugural session, which will be addressed by 14 speakers,
according to an Arab minister.


The blueprint offers Israel full normalisation of relations if it
withdraws from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Arab-Israeli
war, and permits the creation of a Palestinian state and the
return of Palestinian refugees.


"If Israel refuses, that means it doesn't want peace and it
places everything back in the hands of fate. They will be putting
their future not in the hands of the peacemakers but in the hands
of the lords of war."


Saud said that there would be no further diplomatic overtures to
Israel, telling the Telegraph: "It has never been proven that
reaching out to Israel achieves anything."


"Other Arab countries have recognised Israel and what has that
achieved? The largest Arab country, Eygpt, recognised Israel and
what was the result? Not one iota of change happened in the
attitude of Israel towards peace."


Speaking also of Iran's standoff with the West over its nuclear
enrichment programme, Saud said: "We have no inhibitions about
the role of Iran. It is a large country. It wants to play a
leading role in the region, and it has every right to do so."


"It is an historic country. But if you want to reach for
leadership, you have to make sure that those you are leading are
having their interests taken care of and not damaged."


He also called for a "Middle East free of nuclear weapons," and
added that Saudi Arabia was "not going down that road under any
circumstances ... under any forseeable circumstances."

