

Chinese President Hu Jintao toured Russia's oil-rich Tatarstan
region on Wednesday, a day after signing four billion dollars'
worth of trade deals in a visit focused on securing energy
sources.


Hu had arrived in Kazan, capital of the mainly Muslim province in
central Russia, on Tuesday evening.


He was to meet students at Kazan's university and attend a horse-
riding event before holding talks with Tatarstan's leader
Mintimir Shaimiyev.


The Chinese president began his three-day trip to Russia on
Monday by securing an agreement on increasing deliveries of
Russian oil by rail.


But the Russian press on Wednesday reported unresolved questions
about how the accord would be implemented.


There has also been no firm Russian commitment on a Chinese
request to build an extension on a pipeline currently being built
from Siberia to Russia's east coast, so as to deliver directly to
China.


China received a total of 15 million tonnes of Russian oil last
year, of which 11 million tonnes were transported by rail, and is
keen to secure more.


On Tuesday, Hu and Russian President Vladimir Putin oversaw the
signing of four billion dollars of trade deals as well as an
agreement by the two sides' space agencies on a joint mission to
Mars.


Twenty-one trade contracts were signed, including an agreement by
Russian state oil company Rosneft to supply jet fuel to China and
long-term export contracts for Russian steel products.


The sides also agreed to launch a joint mission to Mars in 2009
in which a Chinese satellite will take off aboard a Russian
rocket, Chinese state media reported.


A small satellite will be launched along with "Phobos Explorer,"
a Russian spacecraft, probably in October 2009, to collect soil
samples from Mars, the China Daily reported, citing the China
National Space Administration.


Earlier Hu and Putin talked up the diplomatic ties between their
countries, which have taken closely aligned positions in talks on
North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and the Iranian nuclear
standoff.


In a joint declaration on Monday, the two presidents said the
Iranian issue "should be resolved exclusively in a peaceful way,"
and welcomed the "positive dynamic" in six-party talks aimed at
curbing North Korea's nuclear programme.


But on Wednesday the RBK business daily reported that Russia's
number two oil company Rosneft had failed on Tuesday to sign a
planned one-billion dollar deal with China's Sinopec (China
Petroleum Chemical Corp) on supplying three million tonnes of
Russian oil.


The deal, which foresaw Rosneft supplying oil via rail through
Mongolian territory, had faltered due to a tariff dispute between
Rosneft and Russian railways, said RBK, citing a Russian railways
source.


The paper said that the now defunct Yukos oil company had stopped
supplies through Mongolia last autumn but that Rosneft, which has
controversially acquired many Yukos assets, had hopes of
restarting them.


"If Rosneft and Russian Railways don't quickly reach agreement
this question may be settled by the Kremlin," the paper quoted an
analyst, Veniamin Oks, as saying.

