

Decked out in this season's must-have looks of streaming curled
hair, high heels and mini-skirts, thousands of girls joined a
pilgrimage with one word as the mantra -- cute.


In only its fourth year the Tokyo Girls Collection, a fashion
show turned cultural extravaganza, has quickly become a premier
event for Japan's trend- conscious and economically influential
girls and young women.


Held ahead of the mid-March Tokyo Fashion Week, the Tokyo Girls
Collection has distinguished itself by featuring the street
fashion that real Tokyo girls wear -- and letting them buy it on
the spot.


Nearly 22,000 people -- few older than their mid-20s -- packed
into the Yokohama Arena for the show, many of them breaking into
cheers as the pink clock chimed the start of proceedings.


Some fans travelled all night to take in the one-day show where
mini-skirts, slender legs and sexy stockings were all the rage.


Companies let the girls log online to buy the clothes they see on
the catwalk -- and sold them everything from lingerie to mobile
phones to chewing gum.


"We couldn't help but cry when we saw the models for real!" said
23-year-old Saori Uchiyama.


Her friend of the same age, Mie Saito, wearing skinny jeans and
red boots, chimed in: "Why do they look so cute when they're just
wearing the same clothes I do?"


"Cute" -- or "kawaii" in Japanese -- is the theme word of the
Tokyo Girls Collection. Neither Saori nor Mie could remember how
many times they invoked the word during at the show.


"She says 'kawaii' for absolutely anything!" Miyuki Kidoguchi
said of her 18 -year-old daughter Tomomi whom she brought to the
show. "Sometimes I think my daughter uses the word in the wrong
way."


-- Cuteness is power --


For businesses and experts, cuteness in Japan has turned into a
force with power over the economy and even the national identity.


Cuteness can be seen everywhere from the street fashions of
Shibuya and Harajuku, Tokyo's youth districts, to the phenomenal
success of Hello Kitty, which started in 1974 as a mere mouthless
cat on a coin purse.


Hello Kitty has been one of modern Japan's most quintessential
exports, now appearing on more than 50,000 products on sale in 60
nations.


Sociology professor Nobuyoshi Kurita of Musashi University in
Tokyo, who has studied the "kawaii" phenomenon, said the word can
also imply "acceptable" or "desirable".


"Minnie Mouse or Hello Kitty represent what 'kawaii' is all
about. They are characters that never resist or oppose. They
barely show their emotion or opinion but they are acceptable and
desirable because they are a lovable package. Like the models
today," he said.


The cuteness phenomenon also shows the delicate transition of
gender roles in Japan, which ranks at the bottom among developed
countries in studies on women's equality.


Japan's population is shrinking, presenting a potential future
demographic crisis as a growing number of women stay single well
into their 30s or beyond.


"In today's Japan, most people can graduate from university
regardless of gender. A few decades ago, women had to struggle so
hard to get ahead in a male- dominated world," Kurita said.


"However, now such women have a difficult time embracing
traditional things such as marriage. And the media write about
them as if they are losers at love."


Cuteness, he argued, has become key for women who are
increasingly educated and successful.


"Young girls in particular can sense the changes in society and
adjust so they are accepted. Now being cute is the card to
survive," he said.


As seen with the success of Hello Kitty, the cuteness industry
can also forge a new identity for Japan as a whole.


Japan built itself into the world's second largest economy by
exporting manufactured products, a strategy now being employed by
rapidly growing emerging countries such as China.


"Europe was an industrial society a few centuries ago and
gradually shifted towards a cultural society. What Europe
represents today is Louis Vuitton, Gucci and Chanel, not cars or
electronics," argued the Japanese professor.


"Japan is now following this path at a very fast pace. Japan is
starting to realize that it is getting difficult to preserve its
industrial power as other Asian countries like China, South Korea
and India are rising."


-- Cuteness is catching on with the big fashions houses --


Fashion houses are also catching on -- in their own ways.


Alba Rosa Japan, one of the companies at the Tokyo Girls
Collection, became one of the most popular brands by pioneering
the "beach" look, paraded in Tokyo's Shibuya district by young
people who tan their skin, dye their hair blonde and wear
eccentric brightly-coloured make-up.


"It showed how Japan began to have freer and bolder ideas on
fashion," Alba Rosa Japan's president Shin Akamatsu said of the
beach fad.


"Until then, Japanese women considered fashion as some sort of
uniform according to one's status. If you work, you wear a suit
with a skirt. If you go out, you wear a typically safe black
dress or something. But now, Japanese people are starting to
express themselves through fashion," he told AFP.


But the "cute" craze can be more complicated when it comes to
mass marketing, he said.


"I think 'cute' is an expression of acceptance. People use it by
instinct to say they're okay with something or that they like
something. So it is quite a personal measure and it makes it
difficult for apparel brands today to get collective popularity."


But Akamatsu was optimistic that cute would be the future for
Japanese fashion through events such as the Tokyo Girls
Collection, a version of which was held last year in Paris and
which will travel this month to Beijing.


"We should be more confident being Japanese and having our own
fashion. We have the potential to make Japanese fashion as big as
our cars, electronics and animation across the world."

