

Pakistan's suspended top judge is to address a meeting of lawyers
Wednesday in his first public speech since his removal by
President Pervez Musharraf, his attorneys said.


Military ruler Musharraf's regime has been rocked by a series of
protests and strikes by the legal fraternity and opposition
groups since he dismissed Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad
Chaudhry on March 9.


Chaudhry was driven from his home in Islamabad to the public
meeting in the nearby city of Rawalpindi in his car, followed by
a convoy of lawyers in some 50 vehicles, an AFP photographer
said.


The black-suited lawyers chanted "Long Live Justice Chaudhry" and
"We are with you" as he left his home, the photographer said.
Police did not intervene throughout the 13-kilometer (eight-mile)
route.


The judge was initially confined to his home after his suspension
on charges of misconduct, although the authorities said he was
not under house arrest.


Security outside his house was removed nearly two weeks ago,
after a panel of top judges hearing the accusations against him
declared that there should be no restrictions on his movement.


Chaudhry's expected address comes after secular opposition
parties and Islamic hardliners who loathe Musharraf's support for
the US-led "war on terror" held separate demonstrations on
Monday.


Musharraf, who seized power in a bloodless coup in 1999, slammed
opposition leaders for trying to "politicise a purely judicial
matter."


Early protests against the sacking turned violent, including in
Islamabad on March 16 when police fired rubber bullets and tear
gas at demonstrators and ransacked the offices of a private
television station.


Chaudhry is accused of getting promotions for his son and other
abuses of power, which he denies.


Opponents say Musharraf is trying to weaken the judiciary in a
bid to remain army chief past 2007, when the consitution says he
is meant to give up the position.


He is also expected to seek re-election for another five-year
presidential term by the outgoing parliament ahead of national
polls due late this year or early next -- a move that could also
spark legal challenges.

