

Oil prices rallied in Asian trade Wednesday, touching a six-month
high in a market jittery over Iran's nuclear intentions and the
country's detention of 15 British naval personnel, dealers said.


US military exercises in the Gulf involving two US aircraft
carriers also unsettled the market, they said.


At 2:19 pm (0619 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 98 cents at 63.91 dollars
a barrel from 62.93 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May was up 1.18 dollars at 65.78
dollars.


"The overriding factor today is still the Iranian situation. It's
a lot of "just in case" buying at this stage," said Daiwa
Securities analyst Mark Pervan in Melbourne.


"It's a jittery market at this point of time," he added.


Industry experts say Iran's oil exports could easily be disrupted
should tensions surrounding the Islamic Republic's nuclear
programme escalate.


"Although the odds still remain low for a confrontation to occur,
political risk premium is certainly being priced into futures
again," said Fimat energy analyst Mike Fitzpatrick.


"I think the market will be watching developments ... Prices are
very strong. If nothing substantial happens in the next two or
three days, there would be some profit taking," Pervan said.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil and a key member
of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries,
rejected on Tuesday UN Security Council conditions that it
suspend uranium enrichment in return for talks on its
controversial nuclear programme.


Last Saturday, the Security Council had unanimously approved
further sanctions against Iran.


The international community fears Iran's nuclear effort could be
used to make nuclear weapons. Tehran insists its nuclear
programme is for peaceful energy purposes.


The imposition of sanctions followed news on Friday that Iran had
seized 15 British sailors and marines in the Gulf, a move which
triggered unease in the oil market.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran that efforts to
secure the release of the 15 would enter a "different phase" if
diplomatic efforts failed.


Dealers said the market was looking ahead to the US Department of
Energy's (DoE) weekly update on energy inventories later
Wednesday, with the report expected to show further falls in
gasoline (petrol) reserves.

