

The mangled metal and wierd constructions of brooms, bottles and
other everyday objects made familiar to the babyboom generation
as art, go on show in Paris this week in the first major
exhibition of the 1960s school of "New Realism" in two decades.


From Niki de Saint Phalle's wildly-coloured oddly-oversized
sculpted women to the first wrapped objects by Christo -- who
went on to wrap world monuments -- the show at the Grand Palais
from March 28 to July 2 features 160 works produced in the decade
between 1958 to 1969.


"It was one of the first art movements to cross borders," said
curator Cecile Debray of the 13 artists in the movement, centred
in Paris but in touch with other European countries as well as
with artists in New York, such as Jasper Johns or Robert
Rauschenberg.


"The movement set up the basic trends of contemporary art,"
Debray told AFP. "It came after Abstract art and was provocative,
like the earlier Dadaists."


Active in the post World War II boom years, the artists who
subscribed to New Realism drew their inspiration and drive to
renew artistic forms from the thriving consumerism of industrial
society.


Using strips of torn posters for example "to show art is produced
by everyone," members of the movement, often tongue-in-cheek,
claimed to portray "contemporary nature, be it industrial,
mechanical or advertising."


Jean Tinguely for instance used bits and pieces to make machines
that drew pictures. Cesar compressed cars into sculptures before
turning to polyurethane to mould a giant breast or a thumb, and
Arman smashed a piano to pieces to produce a work called
"Chopin's Waterloo."


Filming performances staged to show art-in-the-making, Niki de
Saint Phalle harked back to memories of incest by shooting at a
giant sculpture representing her father in a 1972 film entitled
"Daddy." Another film shows Yves Klein's naked models rolling in
paint in public to imprint a canvas.


Sometimes serious, sometimes light, the New Realists stuffed
armless dolls in boxes, assembled rat-traps or teeth, and
collected leftover meals and trash in what they said was the
archeology of everyday life.


And as plastic objects multiplied and supermarkets mushroomed,
members of the movement assembled plastic bottles, brooms and
inflated beach-toys to illustrate contemporary life. "It was also
a critique of consumer society," Debray said.


"It was important to stage this exhibition to highlight the
coherence of the group and illustrate how it expressed an era,"
she added.

