

As advertisers and readers abandon traditional newspapers in
their droves for Internet websites, American newspapers are
increasingly looking to their online editions for solutions.


The online editions, once considered the biggest threat to the
traditional print versions, could, it seems, actually prove to be
their saviors.


The most recent shockwaves in a seemingly unending crisis have
seen the Philadelphia Inquirer announcing a 17 percent cut in its
editorial staff, the Boston Globe closing its last three overseas
bureaus and the Los Angeles Times looking for a buyer.


Newspapers have continued to see falling sales, with reader
numbers slumping 2.8 percent in the April to September period in
2006 compared to a year earlier, according to the Newspaper
Association of America (NAA).


"The industry is taking the Web more seriously, and that will
probably only intensify in 2007," the Project for Excellence in
Journalism said in its State of the News Media 2007 report.


"Five years ago, if you had asked me, I'd say I don't know who's
going to produce this (content). It might be Google, or Yahoo, or
Microsoft, that will be the big media giants," said the
organization's Project Director Tom Rosenstiel.


"Today it seems more likely that the New York Times newsroom is
going to survive, that the old newsroom is the really the
newsroom of the future too."


In 2006, newspaper sites on average boosted their readership by
22 percent, to 56.4 million, according to the NAA. Their Internet
drive has never been so intense.


"I really don't know whether we'll be printing The Times in five
years, and you know what? I don't care," Arthur Sulzberger,
publisher of the New York Times, said in an interview earlier
this year.


He later clarified his comments, saying: "It is my heartfelt view
that newspapers will be around -- in print -- for a long time.
But I also believe that we must be prepared for that judgement to
be wrong."


Every title has its own strategy.


Thanks to two separate editorial teams, The Washington Post has
found a new identity on line, offering a different, more
international version of the print edition.


The New York Times, instead, opted to integrate its editorial
teams from the print and web editions, to offer a duplicate of
the paper online.


"In a way it strengthens the position of the New York Times
because the more there is out there ... the more we think people
are going to rely on an authoritative and reliable source like
the New York Times," explained Vivian Schiller, from NYTimes.com.


"This an opportunity for us," she added.


At the Dallas Morning News, since January 2006, half of its
photographers have worked on the video side and every day the
paper puts around six videos online, said deputy head of the
picture desk, Chris Wilkins.


The atmosphere in the editorial department, which downsized twice
in two years, has seen a complete turnaround, he said, predicting
that in the next 10 years "the newspaper will be a by-product of
the web, it is inevitable."


For others, the question of profitability remains paramount. With
some exceptions, most titles offer free access to most of their
Internet services, counting on revenue from online advertising.


Online advertising is growing -- there was a 31.5 percent
increase in 2006, according to the NAA -- but it still only
represents 5.4 percent of advertising in newspapers.


"It's even clearer than it was two years ago that advertising
online is not going to be sufficient," said Rosenstiel. "So the
most important question that newspaper companies should be
working on is how to make the Internet more profitable.


"Whether or not journalism survives and is healthy depends on
whether the business side can figure out a new economic model to
subsidize the creativity of the newsroom," he added.


With buybacks and partnerships, the future looks uncertain.


Some, such as Rosenstiel, suggest sharing revenues between access
providers and newspapers, as with cable television, at least
until someone comes up with a new business model.

