

Democrats on Tuesday hailed as "historic" the passage of a Senate
measure tying funding for the Iraq war to a timetable for
withdrawing US troops -- even as they conceded an uphill fight in
getting the measure passed into law.


By vote of 48 to 50, the Senate rejected on Tuesday a Republican
measure that would have stripped language imposing a March 2008
deadline from an emergency funding bill for Iraq and Afghanistan.


The vote put Democrats a step closer to victory in their bid to
pull US troops from war-ravaged Iraq, although the goal was still
considered a longshot.


"This is not one battle; it's a long-term campaign to persuade
the president, to pressure the president to change course. And we
will keep at it," said Senator Chuck Schumer.


"We make no mistake about it, we have many more steps to go. But
we will persist until we get there," the New York Democrat said.


Democrats planned a victory lap Wednesday, with party leaders
Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi -- of the Senate and House
respectively -- along with former Defense Secretary William Perry
scheduling a mid-afternoon press conference to crow about their
victory, and present "a new course in Iraq."


"Today was a significant step forward in our efforts to change
course in Iraq and makes America more secure," Reid said shortly
after the vote.


The legislation would impose a binding requirement for troop
withdrawal to begin 120 days after passage.


"The president must change course, and this legislation gives him
a chance to do that," the Senate leader continued.


A vote on the entire supplemental spending bill is expected later
this week. Bush has promised to veto the measure, over the extra
spending as well as the deadline for troop pullout.


The president "is disappointed that the Senate continues down a
path with a bill that he will veto and has no chance of becoming
law," his deputy press secretary, Dana Perino, said in a
statement after Tuesday's vote.


Both the House and Senate require a two-thirds vote to override a
presidential veto, which neither chamber is likely to muster.


Democrats have said voter disgust with the course of events there
prompted many voters to choose them over Bush's Republican party
in the November 2006 election.


With Iraq teetering on the brink of civil war, they said, it is
time to accelerate moves to withdraw US forces.


"Nothing else has been successful in convincing the Iraqis that
they have to take responsibility for their own country, and that
they must make the political compromises that are necessary to
end the sectarian violence and defeat the insurgency in Iraq," US
Senator Carl Levin, top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said.


"Only when the Iraqis realize that the mission of US forces in
Iraq is changing and that we are going to reduce the number of US
forces in Iraq, will they realize that we cannot save them from
themselves and that they need to act to meet the commitments they
made to us and to themselves," he said shortly before the vote.


The Republican amendment that went down in defeat cam on the
second day of Senate debate over sending an additional 121.6
billion dollars for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.


"We need to be speeding this funding to our troops rather than
slowing it down by returning to a debate already settled by the
Senate," Cochran said as he introduced his amendment this week.


Another prominent Republican, Senator Sam Brownback, who is
running for the US presidency, said the bill has the effect of
"giving the terrorists a reason to be hopeful."


"We need to stop talking about how to retreat and start talking
about winning in Iraq," he said Tuesday.


The Democratic funding bill is 20 billion dollars more than the
president's 103 -billion-dollar request, and includes some
domestic spending measures such as Hurricane Katrina recovery.


The House of Representatives last week narrowly passed its own
124-billion- dollar version of the spending bill for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, including a firm deadline for getting US
troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.

