

European Union foreign ministers meet Friday to work out how best
to help Kosovo achieve supervised independence, in line with
recommendations made to the United Nations.


The ministers, holding two-days of informal talks in Bremen,
northern Germany, will study a new paper by EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana and Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn on
plans for a massive EU civilian mission.


The EU deployment is "the biggest civilian crisis management
operation ever", according to the joint paper, outlined to AFP
Wednesday by an EU official.


The mission "will be fully operational after a transitional
period of 120 days, and for a minimum period of two years," said
paper said.


It is expected to cost the 27-country bloc 120 million euros (160
million dollars) each year, plus 90 million euros for "initial
investment".


The total cost to the whole international community of
supervising the move to independence is estimated at between
1.3-1.5 billion euros in the three years from 2008-2010.


After a year of fruitless talks between Serbian and Kosovar
authorities, UN envoy to Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari recommended
Monday that the Serbian province be awarded "independence,
supervised by the international community".


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when a NATO bombing campaign ended a brutal crackdown, including
ethnic cleansing, by Serb forces against the large separatist
minded ethnic-Albanian majority.


The Security Council is set to debate Ahtisaari's plan next
month, and tensions are high in the Balkans region, with the
ethnic-Albanians impatient for independence and Belgrade
determined to hold onto part of its territory.


On Tuesday -- the day after the EU envoy unveiled his
recommendations -- two cars were damaged and several nearby
windows smashed when a hand-grenade was thrown by unknown
attackers on a passing vehicle in northern Kosovo.


Most of the responsibility for ensuring the smooth transfer of
power from the UN Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to the province's
nascent institutions will fall to the EU, with NATO playing the
key security role.


The future presence from the EU's point of view would involve
some 1,300-1,500 international police, judges, prosecutors, and
customs officials based in Pristina, an EU document said.


That number includes some 450 riot police.


An as-yet unnamed "EU special representative" would "oversee the
implementation of the settlement, and have some clearly defined
and reviewable executive powers".


Rehn said last week that he would ask in Bremen for EU member
countries and others to help fund the mission.


"Member states and other partners must put in their contributions
to this effort," he said, but added: "I will insist that
resources cannot come from the EU budget alone."


An EU diplomat said that a donor conference could be organised.


The Rehn-Solana document underlines that it is important to
underline "the EU perspective for the whole Balkans, Kosovo as
part of the western Balkans, is very important," the EU official
said.


Meanwhile Russia's UN envoy has suggested that the Security
Council send a mission to Belgrade and Kosovo's main city of
Pristina before the independence plan is debated.


Russia, a key Serbian ally, has threatened to use its veto on any
move to impose independence, arguing that it would set a
dangerous precedent for other separatist minded regions around
the world.

