

Prosecutors in Munich are investigating the former finance chief
and supervisory board member of engineering giant Siemens, Karl-
Hermann Baumann, in a widening bribery probe, the daily
Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported on Wednesday.


Siemens, one of the most prestigious companies in Germany, is the
target of separate investigations into alleged corruption.


Just a day after it was confirmed that Siemens management board
member Johannes Feldmayer had been arrested amid myriad
allegations of widespread and embezzlement at the engineering
giant, the newspaper said that investigators had now also turned
their attention to Baumann.


Both he and Feldmayer and a number of other top managers were
suspected of being involved in alleged payments to the head of
the AUB labour organisation, Wilhelm Schelsky, the newspaper
said.


Schelsky allegedly received 15-20 million euros (20-26 million
dollars) in bogus consultancy fees, it continued.


Siemens allegedly paid the money to the tiny labour organisation
in an attempt to turn AUB into a counterweight to the powerful IG
Metall union, the report said.


The affair had nothing to do with another high-profile slush-fund
scandal, where prosecutors allege that company managers siphoned
off hundreds of millions of euros in Siemens money to obtain
foreign contracts.


Schelsky, a former works council member at Siemens, was arrested
last month.


The Sueddeutsche Zeitung quoted supervisory board sources as
saying that Feldmayer's arrest and its consequences would be
discussed at an extraordinary supervisory board meeting on
Wednesday, called officially to dicuss the timetable for a
possible flotation of the car parts unit VDO.


Siemens has been engulfed by a flurry of different corruption
allegations in recent months, prompting chief executive Klaus
Kleinfeld to hire an outside anti-corruption expert and a law
firm to examine and revise the company's safeguards.


In November, German prosecutors launched a massive probe, raiding
the offices and homes of a number of Siemens employees amid
suspicions of embezzlement, bribery and tax evasion.


A number of current and former employees at the fixed networks
division, including top-ranking managers, have been held for
questioning on the matter.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.


Prosecutors put the sum held in the accounts at 200 million euros
(266 million dollars) and some of that money may have been used
as bribes to obtain contracts abroad.


Siemens itself said that it had uncovered as much as 420 million
euros in suspicious payments as part of the probe.

