

Bloggers have become the new columnists. Bystanders with digital
cameras cameo are spot news photographers. And folks with
personal causes have branded themselves investigative reporters.


News websites featuring videos, pictures, viewpoints and stories
by users are flourishing.


"Citizen journalists" have been either reviled as an infinite
number of monkeys' banging away at keyboards or regaled as an
Internet-age army delivering news from every nook and cranny of
the globe.


"It is essentially a whole group of people who have had no formal
training but an interest in joining the big debate," said
Christine Tatum, president of the US Society of Professional
Journalists (SPJ).


In December Yahoo launched YouWitnessNews, a website that posts
offerings from users after the submissions pass muster with
professional editors.


Founded almost two years ago in Canada, news website
NowPublic.com taps into legions of people that post pictures,
videos, or commentary online.


NowPublic has more than 60,000 contributing "reporters" in more
than 140 countries and expects that number to climb to 150,000 by
year's end.


NowPublic and YouWitnessNews have alliances with traditional
international news wire services and provide them photos or other
worthy content.


YouTube, Revver, Bebo and other video-sharing websites are
popular online locales for people to post news snippets or
commentary. Revver even shares ad revenues with contributors.


Websites such as Newsvine and Slashdot are community driven, with
users writing stories and sharing opinions.


Reddit and Digg are popular news-ranking websites that let
readers summarize and link to mainstream online news and then
shape "front pages" based on the popularity of items.


The number of weblogs, or blogs, in which people post commentary
online is reportedly growing at a rate of one a minute.


Traditional news organizations worldwide are yielding to the
inevitability of readers, viewers or listeners changing from
passive consumers to contributors of content.


"It's ordinary people witnessing extraordinary things and
sharing," NowPublic founder Leonard Brody told AFP. "When a story
goes live who will get at the truth more effectively, a writer
and an editor or thousands of people?"


Citizen journalists were the sole source of images fed to cable
news colossus CNN's "I-Report" from Thailand last year after a
coup there.


Contributors that Brody referred to as "accidental bystanders"
with camera- enabled mobile telephones were the first to get
pictures of the 2005 London terrorist bombings on the Internet.


OhmyNews in South Korea boasts tens of thousands of citizen
contributors and turns a profit.


"Citizen journalism is something that is taking off huge at
newspapers and all levels of journalism," said Mark Fitzgerald,
an editor-at-large for leading news industry publication Editor
and Publisher.


"One of the aspects very attractive to newspapers is young people
who are not reading newspapers are attracted to the idea of self-
publishing and being part of the newspaper."


Editors at Dow Jones reluctantly incorporated blogs into their
online offerings despite "much infighting" about the effect on
credibility at the news organization, according to
Marketwatch.com Internet editor Bambi Francisco.


"Editorially they don't want it to happen but financially they
want to let it happen because it increases page views," Francisco
told a digital media summit this month in Los Angeles.


"Content provided by users is generating revenue."


Citizen journalism is a seductive trend that is poisoning
traditional news organizations, argues Andrew Keen, author of a
book titled "Cult of the Amateur" due out in June.


Keen refers to the online maelstrom of opinions, pictures and
videos as "ignorance meets egoism meets bad taste meets mob rule,
on steroids."


"I don't trust it," Keen told AFP. "The pendulum has swung so
dramatically that anyone feels entitled to know better. Could you
imagine if newspapers were dead and all we had was the
blogosphere?"


Society stands to benefit if professional reporters are
augmented, not replaced, by a multiplying number of people
devoted to seeking and reporting the truth, Tatum said.


"The downside, and it's a big downside, is a lot of these people
have no exposure to media practices -- laws and fundamentals of
sound and responsible news reporting," Tatum told AFP.


"People trespass, make promises they don't keep for information,
receive kickbacks, don't give someone the right to fair reply.
These are huge no-noes."


SPJ is creating a Citizen Journalism Academy that offers training
on the basics of news reporting, according to Tatum. The academy
is to start in 2008.


"It is a big bad case of everybody thinking they can do someone
else's job better than they can," Tatum said.


"If you think you don't need mainstream media, just make that one
mistake that gets you sued and then talk to me."


The age of "crowd-source" journalism is just dawning, Brody said.


The next step will be to let stories evolve Wikipedia-style with
contributors building on each others' work by adding information
or images to a collaborative online work, according to Brody and
Francisco.


"More and more news collection is going to be driven by people
like us," Brody said. "For the first time in history, the
monopoly news organization is gone, finished. They lost the war."

