

Hundreds of protesters took to New Zealand streets Wednesday
protesting a proposed law which would ban parents from hitting
their children to discipline them.


At least 400 people marched to Parliament in Wellington chanting
slogans against the bill, which was due to be debated by
legislators later in the day.


In Christchurch, the largest city in the nation's South Island,
about 1,000 banner-wielding protesters turned out to oppose the
legislation.


The proposed law -- popularly known as the anti-smacking bill --
appears to have majority support of the country's 121
legislators, but polls have shown a heavy majority of New
Zealanders oppose it.


Pollsters Colmar Brunton polled 1,000 voters and found 83 percent
believed parents should be allowed to smack their children.


Under the current law, parents can use "reasonable force" to
discipline their children, but the legislation would remove this
provision.


More than 50,000 signatures have been gathered in a petition
demanding a referendum on the issue.


The opponents of the bill say it will turn parents who give their
children a light smack into criminals.


"It's social engineering," yelled protester Louise Simpson at the
Wellington protest.


"What they are actually doing is adopting the same fascist ideas
as the Nazis and using our police force that we pay for to
enforce it," she said.


The promoter of the bill, Green Party MP Sue Bradford, said the
bill was being misrepresented, and police would never prosecute
parents who gave their child a light smack.


The purpose of the bill was to prevent parents who severely beat
their children from using the "reasonable force" provision as a
defence.


Parents who had beaten their children with objects including
riding crops, lumps of wood and bamboo canes have been acquitted
of assault under the current law.


The bill has been supported by Prime Minister Helen Clark's
Labour Party, members of the Greens and another minor party,
which is expected to ensure the legislation is passed into law.


Clark has attacked "extreme right-wing fundamentalist groups",
which she said were among the bill's most vocal critics.


She said the law change was needed to tackle New Zealand's poor
record on violence against children.


A 2003 UNICEF report said New Zealand had the third-worst rate of
abuse and neglect of children in the OECD group of developed
countries.


"New Zealand has on its conscience that our rate of child death
and injury from violence, including in the home, is appalling,"
Clark told journalists.


"It is a stain on our international reputation and I cannot see
how those who are demanding the right to be able to thrash and
beat children can possibly then turn around and confess concern
about what is happening to our children."


Legislators opposing the bill have been trying to delay its
passing, but the government is considering ways of getting it
passed as soon as next week.

