

Tokyo this week opens its highest skyscraper featuring top-notch
shops, restaurants and even a hospital as the metropolis tries to
project a slicker, sexier image than rising Asian rivals.


Tokyo Midtown, built on what used to be the Defence Agency
headquarters, is the latest giant urban complex to transform the
world's most populous city and is just a short walk from
similarly envisioned four-year-old Roppongi Hills.


Rising 248 metres (813 feet), the central tower of the pentagonal
complex is the city's tallest structure other than the
uninhabited Tokyo Tower.


Besides 132 shops and restaurants, Tokyo Midtown features a Ritz-
Carlton Hotel -- billed as the most luxurious address in the city
-- and a medical centre affiliated with Baltimore's prestigious
Johns Hopkins University.


It also includes the Suntory Museum, the second major new art
gallery to open in Tokyo this year, and pricey condominiums.


The designers said Tokyo Midtown -- which opened to invited
guests Wednesday and will open its doors to the public Friday --
was meant to show a more sensitive, aesthetically aware side of
Japan, the world's second largest economy.


"Through Midtown, we aim to turn Tokyo into the centre of
intellectual creativity for business and culture in Japan, Asia
and the world," said Hiromitsu Iwasa, head of Mitsui Real Estate
in charge of the project.


"We also want this area to be the centre from which Japanese
values and aesthetic sense will be sent out to the world," he
said.


A consortium of six companies built the 69,000 square-metre
(741,000 square- foot) complex at a cost of 370 billion yen
(three billion dollars).


In one corner of Tokyo Midtown is the 21_21 Design Site, Japan's
first institute dedicated to studying the creative process of
design.


"Japan is essentially known as an economic powerhouse, and we
want to show the world another face -- one of design and
aesthetics," said architect Tadao Ando, who conceptualised the
21_21 Design Site with renowned fashion designer Issey Miyake.


Miyake hoped the institute would help change a society "solely
focused on consumption."


"Today in Japan, we only create products to sell. There is a
competition, devoid of feeling, that revolves around the
packaging. The goal of design is elsewhere. It is necessary to
make more ties with society," Miyake said.


Iwasa, head of the Midtown design, said the project would help
Tokyo retrieve an international standing that has slipped since
Japan's 1990s recession, as other Asian cities such as Shanghai,
Singapore and Hong Kong catch up.


"Winning against international competition (depends on) Japan's
aggressive application of design, which is one of the reasons for
Japan's competitiveness and is internationally acclaimed," Iwasa
said.


Tokyo Midtown lies close to Roppongi Hills, another giant complex
of shops, restaurants and condominiums which opened in 2003 and
has quickly become a magnet for a young generation of
entrepreneurs -- most famously fallen Internet tycoon Takafumi
Horie.


Experts said the growing number of mega-complexes in Tokyo was
one just one step in ensuring that the metropolis remains
attractive.


"Japan needs to make Tokyo sexier," said Yoji Otani, a real
estate analyst at Credit Suisse Securities.


"Midtown is not enough. Tokyo will need to develop more diverse
facilities and think seriously of ways to make itself attractive
for reasons other than its economy."

