

China's sport officials were delighted Wednesday to have Shanghai
and Beijing named hosts of two new top-tier tennis tournaments
even though they will lose the season-ending men's Masters Cup.


The ATP named China's financial hub host of an elite Masters
Series event starting in 2009 but the governing body of men's
tennis declined to renew a contract for the Masters Cup in
Shanghai, where it has been held three times.


"It is so heartening to know that Shanghai is the first Asian
city to host an ATP Masters Series event," Yu Chen, director of
the Shanghai Administration of Sport, said in a statement
released by the ATP.


"After the Masters Cup in Shanghai, the Masters Series (event)
will give a further boost to the game's popularity in the city
and in the country as well."


Shanghai will be the only city in Asia to hold one of the nine
annual Masters Series tournaments, which are a step above the
regular ATP events with an elite 32-man field.


The eastern port city, which held the Masters Cup in 2002 as well
as the last two years running, will nevertheless retain the
season-ending men's event through 2008 before it heads back to
Europe.


The Masters Cup is open to the eight best performing players of
the year.


The announcement came as the WTA, which governs women's tennis,
said Beijing would host one of four elite events with a minimum
four million dollars each in prize money on a revamped
20-tournament top-level calendar.


The upgrade of the China Open as a top-tier tournament is part of
a plan to improve and shorten the entire women's tennis tour
starting in 2009.


The streamlined WTA calendar of the top 20 events will also
include Asia-Pacific stops in Tokyo, Sydney, Doha and Dubai.


The WTA said the decision to give Beijing one of the elite nine-
day tournaments was part of plans to make tennis in China much
more popular.


"With the establishment of a crown-jewel tennis event in China
that will feature the world's best players, our sport is
positioned for explosive growth in the world's most exciting
market," WTA chief executive Larry Scott said.


Beijing will also host a new regional WTA office starting in 2008
to guide marketing and promotions.


Zhao Fengtong, a vice mayor of Beijing, said the new WTA
tournament and officce would prove "significant for the rapid
development of tennis in Beijing and China".


The Olympic Green Tennis Centre will be the home for the new WTA
event.


China, not a traditional power in tennis, is emerging as a force
in the women's game thanks to rising stars such as Li Na and
Zheng Jie.

