

When you go to the web site of the New York Times, the
advertisements you'll see are not there by accident. The computer
knows where you've been on the Internet; it has a feel for your
tastes.


They call it "behavioral targeting," one of many innovations
developed by an increasingly web-savvy business world eager to
log on to the personal quirks and preferences of customers and
parlay them into sales.


The volume of online advertising is expected to double by 2010 to
60 billion dollars, according to Jeffries bank. The web's share
of total US ad spending should rise from six to 10 percent, says
industry monitor EMarketer.


And on the Internet, advertisers are determined to leave as
little as possible to chance.


Firms such as Tacoda, a US leader in behavioral targeting, are
able to profile Internet users' buying habits thanks to "cookies"
-- mini-programs that take root in a computer and spy on its
activities.


For instance Tacoda can identify web users who, in the last 15
days, have visited a car sale site as well as a site typically
consulted by people with high incomes, such as a financial
newsletter.


The result? If they go to the sports section of the New York
Times on line they will not-so-miraculously find an advertisement
for a luxury car, according to Tacoda's chief Dave Morgan.


Behavioral targeting is growing but still lags far behind the
most widespread technique, contextual advertising, which brings
up ads linked to the general content of the pages being
consulted.


For instance, a sports site might show advertisements for sports
equipment or tickets to major events. The ads are relatively
inexpensive to place but Google, the undisputed king in this
sector, is making its fortune here.


With annual turnover of 10 billion dollars, Google has corralled
about 30 percent of the world's online advertising market,
compared to 20 percent for its rival Yahoo.


Google matches a simple concept with a sophisticated automated
system to sign up hundreds of thousands of advertisers eager to
pitch their wares under a Google AdWords banner.


Non-stop auctions allow advertisers to "buy" keywords related to
their product. Once an Internet user types the search word, the
advertiser's ad will pop up on any Google-affiliated site
consulted.


Google doesn't miss a trick and ads will even come up alongside
e-mails sent by Google Mail users that contain the keyword.


But in terms of profiling of potential advertising targets,
Microsoft and Yahoo go further.


Not only do they register what sites an Internet user visited,
but they throw in personal information such as age, sex and
address, that are provided when someone signs up for their web or
e-mail services.


Some sites compile hundreds of other details, such as online
purchases, the computer used, how much time people spend on a
particular page, even names and telephone numbers, according to
the Center for Digital Democracy.


Customized digital advertising may be in its infancy but it is
spreading quickly, setting its sights on cell phones and video
game consoles that are connected to the Internet.


Neighborhood merchants can now try to hook in shoppers on the
street by sending them sales pitches picked up by the Global
Positioning Systems (GPS) that will soon adorn most US cell
phones.


Advertisers are also starting to penetrate new interactive web
forums such as blogs or social sites. Brand names are thus
posting video clips on YouTube which visitors then relay onto
their friends -- becoming an ad hoc ad network.


And networking sites such as MySpace, where users lay out their
tastes and preferences, provide sheer manna for advertisers
looking to tightly tailor their messages to a specific audience.


Even television advertising will soon be personalized, with the
Internet behemoths seeking to exploit how viewers program their
sets. Google is already testing targeted TV ads in the US market.


"We can get information out of the setup box, if the users want
to share the information," said Tim Armstrong, Google's vice
president for advertising sales.


"For instance if you watch pet channels all the time, we can make
an assumption you have a pet" and buy pet food, Armstrong said in
an interview with AFP.

