

US and South Korean negotiators wrangled for a third day
Wednesday over a free trade agreement but the US side said a deal
is still possible before a weekend deadline despite slow
progress.


"I think the deal is possible," said US Trade Representative's
Office spokesman Steve Norton.


Both sides have said the talks could go up to the deadline at
7:00 am Saturday Korean time, the last working day of the week in
Washington.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday for a 90-day
review if it is to be passed while President George W. Bush still
has authority to "fast-track" trade legislation.


"We are ready to stay overnight Friday. It is possible for both
sides to talk until the last moment," a Korean trade official
told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Norton also said the talks may extend past midnight Friday.


Seoul officials say there has been no significant progress so far
on differences, especially over farm products.


"The tug of war is continuing and both sides are tough," South
Korea's Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-Seok was quoted
by Yonhap news agency as saying.


Min was holding separate talks with the US chief agricultural
negotiator, Richard Crowder.


On Tuesday the US side demanded a written commitment from Seoul
that it would fully open its market to US beef but South Korean
officials said the demand was rejected.


South Korea last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over mad
cow fears and agreed to accept US boneless beef but it then
rejected three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments,
which the US called a pretext to protect Korean farmers.


Rice is the most sensitive issue and Seoul officials say the
talks could collapse if the US presses for the opening of the
local rice market.


They maintain they are willing to miss the deadline rather than
accept an unpalatable deal.


Unresolved issues also include cars, textiles, anti-dumping
remedies and pharmaceuticals.


Some analysts, however, believe a deal is certain and say South
Korea is already charting programs to win public and legislative
support. The Korea Times quoted a government source as saying an
agreement is a foregone conclusion.


If the talks remain deadlocked, the Chosun Ilbo newspaper said
President Roh Moo-Hyun, who returns Friday morning from a Middle
East trip, is expected to strike a package deal with Bush in a
phone call.


Total two-way trade was worth 74 billion dollars last year and an
agreement could boost this figure by about 20 percent, according
to some studies.


South Korea, facing a growing export challenge from China, is
pushing for a pact to make its economy more competitive.


For the United States, a deal would be its biggest since the 1993
North American Free Trade Agreement.


But Korean farmers, other workers and activists say an agreement
opening the way for cheaper imports would threaten their jobs and
depress wages.


Four lawmakers, including presidential hopeful Kim Geun-Tae, are
on hunger strike against any deal even though government
officials believe a majority of legislators support one.


Protesters from a coalition of farmers and anti-globalisation
activists said they would stage a candlelit rally Wednesday
evening and street protests on Friday.


Agriculture accounts for only three percent of South Korea's
gross domestic product but rice has strong cultural significance.
Farmers have a long tradition of militancy in trying to keep
foreign imports out.

