

Human guinea pigs, record-smashing "super Sherpas" and a man in
shorts are among those gearing up to battle Mount Everest, set
for a busy season this year thanks to Nepal's peace process.


"We are expecting more expeditions as the political situation has
improved a lot compared to last year," said Narayan Prasad
Acharya, an official from the mountaineering department of
Nepal's tourism ministry.


This year, the cost of a permit to climb the world's highest peak
will range from 10,000 dollars to 25,000 dollars per person -- a
massive amount of money in impoverished Nepal, where the annual
average wage is around 240 dollars.


The main summit attempts will come in May, when a small window
between the spring and summer monsoon make climbing most
feasible.


While some climb for glory, others for cash and fame, Mike
Grocott, a British intensive care expert, is in it for the
science.


"A problem that we see very commonly in our patients is hypoxia,
low oxygen levels," Grocott, lecturer in intensive care medicine,
told AFP as his massive research expedition left Kathmandu to set
up its multiple laboratories.


His research team is seeking to discover why some people cope
with lack of oxygen better than others, and the findings could
help patients.


"What we have with Everest is a perfect natural laboratory where
oxygen levels are low," he explained, adding that the team would
study around 200 trekkers who had volunteered as guinea pigs and
would also conduct tests during a summit attempt.


At Everest's base camp, there is only half the oxygen there is at
sea level. At the 8,848 metre (29,198 feet) summit, there is just
a third.


"It will take us around five years to analyse the data. By June
we will have 15,000 blood samples and 2,200 exercise tests," said
Grocott, whose team is taking 20 tonnes of medical and
mountaineering equipment to base camp.


Sharing base camp with Grocott's Cauldwell Extreme Everest
Expedition will be another interesting medical case -- a half-
naked Dutchman.


Wim Hof, known as the "Iceman" for his ability to perform extreme
endurance feats in freezing conditions, is planning to attack the
icy slopes wearing just shorts, boots and a backpack.


"He will not climb all the way in shorts, only in sections, but
we plan to set many new world records," expedition leader Werner
de Jong explained by telephone from the Netherlands.


Temperatures at the top during the main summit season range
between minus 25 and minus 30 degrees Celsius (minus 13 to minus
22 Fahrenheit).


"He has four extra Sherpas (high altitude mountain guides)," the
team leader said. "Overnight and during tea breaks he will wear
clothes."


Also out to break records are a mountaineering dream team -- Appa
Sherpa and Lhakpa Gelu Sherpa.


The "super Sherpas" are two of Nepal's most famous high-altitude
climbing guides, and will be joining forces for a small and
probably lightning fast expedition to the summit.


Appa Sherpa already holds a world record for his 16 successful
summit attempts, and Lhakpa Gelu Sherpa smashed the world record
for a speed ascent of Everest in 2003, getting to the top in just
under 11 hours.


First scaled in 1953 by Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary, the
peak has now been climbed 3,067 times, according to Ang Tsering
Sherpa of the Nepal Mountaineering Association.


This year, around 550 people will be attempting the peak from
both Nepal -- where a peace deal signed last year with Maoist
rebels has brought an end to a decade of civil war -- and the
northern flank of the peak in China.


The mountain is viewed as sacred by Tibetans and the increased
commercialisation of summit attempts continues to cause furious
debate in the mountaineering community.


The peak was particularly deadly last year, with 11 people killed
while trying to reach the summit. Many of the bodies still litter
the upper reaches of the mountain.

