

The banned political wing of armed Spanish separatist group ETA
filed papers Tuesday to register a new political party in a bid
to take part in May local elections, but the government indicated
gambit would likely fail.


Spain's Socialist government has said Batasuna cannot take part
in the May 27 elections in the northern Basque and Navarre
regions unless it breaks definitively with ETA's armed campaign.


Batasuna, while it has distanced itself from the armed struggle,
has yet to make the unequivocal statement the government is
seeking.


The Basque separatist newspaper Gara, which has close ties to
Batasuna, said the statues of the new party, to be named
Abertzale Sozialista Batasuna (Radical Socialist Batasuna), would
use only democratic political means.


But Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Tuesday
evening on television that an initial review showed the new party
was unlikely to meet legal muster.


"The interior ministry has conducted an initial review ... of the
party's statutes and believes there are signs of illegality,"
said the prime minister.


Zapatero broke off dialogue with the Basque separatist group ETA
after last December's bombing at Madrid's international airport
in which two people were killed.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region. Both the
EU and the US State Department consider Batasuna a terrorist
organisation along with ETA.


The right-wing opposition Popular Party has made the Basque
question its main platform of attack against the government in
the run-up to the regional and local elections.


Opposed to any dialogue with ETA and to lending any legitimacy to
Batasuna, the Popular Party has repeatedly warned that Spanish
unity is at risk.


On March 10, the right-wing opposition gathered several hundred
thousands demonstrators in Madrid to protest the government's
decision to allow a Basque separatist jailed for 25 murders to
finish his sentence at home after becoming dangerously weakened
in a hunger strike.


But last week Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi, who faced charges of
"glorifying terrorism" at the high court, walked free after the
prosecution dropped the charges, to the anger of Popular Party
politicians.


On the eve of his court appearance he told a Catalan radio
station: "Nobody is claiming -- and if they were it would be a
mistake -- to build an independent (Basque) state by means of the
armed struggle."

