

The fashion industry must police itself via education and
awareness to keep ultra-thin models off the catwalks rather than
imposing drastic bans, Singapore Fashion Festival organisers say.


As the multi-billion-dollar fashion world comes under intense
pressure to promote a healthier image after the death last year
of a top Brazilian model, the Singapore show -- which began last
weekend -- is carrying resolutely on.


In February, five models were banned from Madrid's main ready-to-
wear show for being too thin, according to rules set by regional
authorities based on a body mass index chart drawn up by the
World Health Organisation.


But powerful fashion federations from France, Italy, the United
States and Britain, who agreed in January to tackle concern over
ultra-thin models, have rejected such bans, a decision approved
in Singapore.


"We can't police," said Graeme Lewsey, Asia Pacific director of
marketing and communication for Singapore festival organiser IMG
Fashion.


He said limits on body mass index (BMI) are "not the appropriate
course of action."


"We believe it's far better to concentrate on whether a model is
healthy or not," Lewsey said. "Some models are naturally slim and
... ethnicity needs to be taken into consideration.


"Obviously in Asia it's part of the genetics that Asian models
are naturally slimmer."


Madrid's authorities fixed a body mass index (BMI) limit of 18. A
BMI over 18 corresponds to more than 56 kilograms (123.2 pounds)
for a height of 1.75 metres (five foot eight).


The Brazilian model, Ana Carolina Reston, was 21 and weighed 39.6
kilograms for a height of 1.7 metres when she died of anorexia
last November.


Last month an 18-year-old model in Uruguay died of heart failure
six months after her sister, another model, suffered the same
fate.


In Italy, one of the world's major fashion nations, the
government and two top fashion associations in December signed a
code of ethics that bans models with a BMI under 18.


Singapore's festival says that it is also emphasising health, but
without official restrictions.


Organisers have reinforced their own guidelines for casting
healthy models, developed after consultation with industry
players.


Modelling agencies are urged not to cast models who "would be
considered to be unnaturally or extraordinarily thin or suspected
of having an eating disorder."


Vicky Tay, a Singaporean designer who showcased at the festival
Saturday, said there was an unspoken commitment to comply.


"We designers know there's the weight issue, and we pick models
who are healthy," she said.


Festival director Simon Lock said no formal assessment is made of
whether models meet the guidelines. The onus is on modelling
agencies, retailers and designers to ensure they are followed.


Lock said that in the three years IMG Fashion has organised the
Singapore event, he is not aware of any models being dismissed
over weight.


The guidelines say the festival recognises that promotion of
exceedingly thin models could lead some young women to become
obsessive about wanting to emulate those images.


"The fashion industry, with that in mind, has to have some
responsibility because we don't want to hurt anyone," said Lock,
whose company runs fashion weeks worldwide.


It works under guidelines of local industry bodies such as the
Council of Fashion Designers of America, which in January called
for more education on eating disorders rather than a ban.


Body weight was only one manifestation of eating disorders, it
said, noting some models were naturally tall and thin as a result
of many factors, such as genetics.


Lock noted that fashion bodies in Australia, Britain and the
United States have not adopted BMI weight limits.


"We are providing the guidelines and hoping industry players will
abide," said Lewsey.

