

Prime Minister John Howard warned Wednesday that British climate
change guru Nicolas Stern's environmental solutions would damage
Australia's economy.


Howard said ahead of a meeting with Stern scheduled for late
Wednesday that he respected the British economist's contribution
to the climate change debate but regarded him as just another
expert in the debate on global warming.


"I'm interested in his views, they make a valuable contribution
to the debate but they are the views of another expert, they
should be treated with respect but they shouldn't be treated as
holy writ," Howard told parliament.


Stern warned last year in a landmark report commissioned by the
British government that climate change could bring economic
disaster on the scale of the world wars and the 1930s Great
Depression unless urgent action was taken.


He has called on Australia to ratify the Kyoto Protocol and slash
greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2020 during a visit
Down Under this week, but Howard expressed reservations about his
proposed solutions.


"Some, I believe, if implemented would literally do great damage
to the Australian economy," Howard said.


"When it comes to the decisions of this government, uppermost in
our minds will be the national interest, not the views of any one
eminent individual."


"I'm not going to commit this government or this country to
targets that impose an unfair or disproportionate burden on this
country in the contribution it makes to responding to the
challenge of climate change."


Howard said there were areas in which he agreed with Stern,
including the use of nuclear power and clean coal technology to
combat climate change.


Stern, a former World Bank chief economist, warned in an
interview published Wednesday that Australia risked a bleak
future of increasing droughts, storms, rising sea levels and a
dying Great Barrier Reef if global warming continued.


"You should be going, as a rich country, for 60 percent to 90
percent reductions by 2050," he told the Sydney Morning Herald.


He admitted this was "a strong ask", as the economy would be two
or three times bigger and the demands for energy would greatly
increase.


Howard has frequently expressed scepticism about global warming,
but recently softened his stance as an election looms later this
year and opinion polls show widespread public concern about the
issue.


But his government remains the only developed economy to join the
United States in refusing to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on
greenhouse gas emissions, saying it is unfair because it does not
imposes caps on developing countries.

