

The traditional television box may lose its place of honor in the
sitting room to a crop of new devices that send films and shows
straight to screens and telephones via the Internet, analysts
say.


"In a couple of years, we'll be seeing television (change) from
being a dedicated box to being part of a home network, connected,
eliminating all the wires," said Tim Hanlon, senior vice-
president of media consultants Denuo.


"It's a cross-line between Internet and TV experience."


Devices such as the brand-new Apple TV, launched on March 21, and
the company TiVo's decoder and recorder, allow films and programs
to be downloaded from the Internet for direct viewing on a
television screen.


"I could watch Internet video on a TV, and reverse," Hanlon said.
"And you could receive a multitude of content from online
stores."


Downloads to the Apple TV are limited to files purchased from
Apple's iTunes site, while TiVo has an agreement to allow
downloads exclusively from the online media store Amazon.


The technology can also relay videos from the Internet to the
smaller screen of a mobile telephone -- a phone user could have
access to a Hollywood studio's back catalogue or entire
television series in their pocket.


"Obviously it is no substitute for leaning back and watching two-
hour movies on a HD (high-definition) TV set," said Hanlon. "But
if I'm interested in a basket ball game and my plane is delayed,
a little screen may be exactly what I want."


Downloads to the new breed of television devices still take some
time -- around an hour for a film to a TiVo device -- and the
videos available are limited to those from certain participating
studios.


But a device with fewer restrictions is in the pipeline. The
Slingcatcher, due to be released in mid-2007 by Sling Media, will
directly transmit videos streamed on the Internet to a television
screen, without limits on the content.


Reproducing video content this way has legal risks, however. The
US entertainment giant Viacom has launched a billion-dollar
lawsuit for copyright infringement against Google and its
affiliate video-sharing website YouTube.


Another Sling Media device, the Slingbox, launched in 2005,
allowed the user to plug a television into a personal computer
and then pick up television shows from that connection over the
Internet from anywhere in the world.


The VCast device, recently launched by the US telecom operator
Verizon, lets viewers watch television on their mobile
telephones, using the key pad to change channels.


And Time Warner Cable provides hundreds of films on demand,
downloadable in seconds for viewing on a regular or high-
definition television, for around four dollars each.


Decoding devices store downloaded videos and can also record
television channels, enabling viewers to rewind a programme as it
is broadcast, or save it watch later.


As well as challenging the traditional box for its throne, the
revolution in Internet-based television devices threatens other
media hardware. Market analysts iSuppli predict DVD sales will
plummet 20 percent by 2010.


With the number of online video stores multiplying, even movie
theaters may screen films on demand from the Internet.

