

Next season's European Cup appeared to be on the brink of
collapse on Monday when English Premiership clubs announced they
would also boycott the tournament if their French counterparts
went ahead with one.


The Premiership clubs want some of the RFU shares in European
Rugby Cup Limited, in addition to greater voting rights.


The decision by the English clubs greeted with bitter irony by
French Federation chief Bernard Lapasset, who had won a reprieve
from the French clubs last week to delay their deadline voer the
boycott.


"I find the English clubs decision, extraordinarily courageous,"
he said sarcastically.


"It provokes this reflection from me 'Mister Frenchman, fire the
first shot'.


"I do not find this very courageous. All it does is send the ball
back into the French court."


The English clubs' governing body Premier Rugby released a
statement after the English clubs had held a meeting on Monday in
which they reiterated their demands.


"As part of these proposals, Premier Rugby is seeking that their
clubs have equal shares and votes with the RFU in a new five year
commitment to European competitions, to which the clubs have
contributed so much success.


"Without this, the English clubs would otherwise be the only
independent clubs not to have shares.


"Premier Rugby has been negotiating for the last 16 months with
its other European partners to establish a New Agreement once the
current one comes to an end after this season. It is a point of
frustration that an agreement in principle reached in October
2006 with our European partners has so far been rejected by the
RFU.


"The clubs remain committed to European competition involving all
the current participants. However, a European Cup without the
leading French clubs is not a genuine European competition and
Premier Rugby's clubs have today agreed unanimously not to
participate in any such competition without the French next
season."


The French had called off their deadline for declaring whether
they do go ahead with a boycott or not after Lapasset asked their
head Serge Blanco - the French Rugby National League president
(LNR) - to as he was due to hold talks with the English clubs.


The LNR announced two months ago that all 14 French first
division clubs would not participate in the continent's top club
competitions next season.


The LNR blamed the English Rugby Football Union (RFU) over their
refusal to hand over share and voting rights in European Rugby
Cup (ERC) Limited to leading English clubs, although domestic
fixture congestion in France caused by the World Cup is being
seen as the major reason for the planned mass withdrawal.


But the RFU rejected the LNR's latest proposal regarding English
shareholding in ERC, claiming it did not provide a long-term
solution to current difficulties.

