

Ivory Coast public broadcaster RTI on Monday said it would launch
a revamped programming schedule aimed at balancing out its
coverage of the country's political players following a landmark
peace deal.


"We are headed towards reconciliation. This is a time of peace
and our programs should show that," the head of RTI Pierre Brou
Amessan told AFP, adding that the "state media will accompany the
new peace accord."


The March 4 peace agreement between President Laurent Gbagbo and
New Forces rebel leader Guillaume Soro not only set the scene for
Soro's appointment as prime minister last week but also banned
"all propaganda, especially media- related, aiming to harm the
spirit of solidarity and national unity."


A day after the signing of the deal, the Ivory Coast's official
media regulation bodies called for the media to "halt the
inflammatory rhetoric."


In accordance with its new schedule, RTI starting Tuesday will
begin its programming at 6:00 am (GMT) instead of at 9:00 am,
largely filling the additional time slots with debates between
the west African country's many political factions.


The broadcaster will also exchange its traditional blue
background for the colours of the national flag: orange, white
and green.


"The new program aims to prepare the new Ivorian, in other words
someone who is consensual, open to all the regions and all the
brothers," Amessan explained, insisting that RTI "will not serve
as an instrument used to insult one and other."


Amessan was appointed head of RTI on in November last year after
Yacouba Kebe was dismissed by presidential decree for a "serious
mistake," after the station aired what Gbagbo considered a
seditious statement by Prime Minister Charles Konan Banny's
office.


Reporters Without Borders at the time criticised what it called a
"gentle hold- up" by Ivorian authorities.


The Ivory Coast is home to some 20 daily newspapers and several
dozen very diverse opinion radio stations, as well as two public
television stations: RTI and entertainment channel TV2.


The conflict in Ivory Coast, a one-time bastion of stability in
west Africa, dates from 2002, when a Soro-led failed coup against
Gbagbo left rebels holding the north of the cocoa-rich country.


In line with the March 4 peace agreement, Soro was on Monday was
busy determining the line-up of his new government, with more
than half the cabinet seats set aside for New Forces members.


He was expected to present the new government this week.

