

World oil prices were mixed on Monday, but traded above 68
dollars a barrel in London on supply concerns caused by the
Britain-Iran sailor crisis, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May rose 49
cents to 68.59 dollars in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, slid 27 cents to 65.60 dollars in floor trading.


"Prices have surged in recent days as relations between Iran and
the West have deteriorated," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


Iran said on Monday all 15 British sailors it detained last month
had confessed to illegally entering its waters, and broadcast new
pictures of the servicemen apparently admitting to their error.


State media also spoke of a "change" in the British attitude
towards resolving the standoff, but the reports did not say what
shift had been made and have yet to be echoed by any Iranian
officials. Britain insists the sailors were in Iraqi waters when
captured.


Iran is the world's fourth-biggest producer of crude oil and some
analysts believe there is a risk that the Islamic Republic could
move to disrupt its oil exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


Last week Brent crude reached 69.14 dollars a barrel -- the
highest level since September 4, 2006 -- on the Iran crisis.


On Monday the market was also tracking events in Nigeria, where
gunmen in the southern Bayelsa State on Monday kidnapped two
Lebanese nationals, two days after a British oil worker was
seized from an offshire rig.


A spokesman for Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that London
was aware of an incident in which a British national was
abducted.


"Nigeria, on top of Iran, on top of relatively tight market
fundamentals (of supply and demand), provides plenty of market-
moving news," said Victor Shum, senior principal at Purvin and
Gertz.


If Iran released the British personnel, prices could immediately
drop "a few dollars" but further escalation of the war of words
between the two countries could provide plenty of room for
speculators, Shum cautioned.

