

A journalist who is head of a Central African Republic private
press group was on Monday sentenced by a criminal court here to
two months in prison for obstruction of justice.


Michel Alkhaly-Ngady, who leads the Bangui Group of Independent
Private Press Editors in the Central African Republic (GEPPIC)
and who is also chief of the Temps Nouveaux daily, was found
guilty of obstructing the governmental High Communication Council
(HCC), which regulates media in the landlocked African country.


In addition to the prison term, Alkhaly-Ngady, arrested on March
12, was also sentenced to pay a fine of 300,000 CFA francs (457
euros, 611 dollars).


His defence lawyers, who had demanded his release, immediately
said they would appeal the verdict.


"We hope that the appeals court will rule correctly," attorney
Mathias- Barthelemy Morouba told AFP following the trial.


"This trial is not a trial about common law, but rather a
political trial," another defence attorney, Nicolas Tiangaye,
said.


Alkhaly-Ngady, who was present when the verdict was announced,
was returned to the main prison in the Central African capital to
serve his sentence.


Prosecutors had last week requested a two-year prison sentence
for the GEPPIC chief as well as a fine of 500,000 CFA francs.
They had also called for his civil and political rights to be
revoked for a period of five years.


In January, GEPPIC and two other local press groups condemned the
appointment of several HCC members, including the two picked by
President Francois Bozize, claiming the appointments were not in
line with law-defined criteria.


The three press groups have since refused to recognise the HCC's
authority or to apply its rulings.


The HCC, which filed the obstruction suit against Alkhaly-Ngady,
was especially angered by opposition to its decision in February
to suspend the Centrafriqu'Un newspaper. Urged on by GEPPIC, the
paper continued to publish despite the HCC order.


As during the two-day trial on March 19 and 26, no private
newspapers were distributed in Bangui on Monday in protest
against Alkhaly-Ngady's incarceration.

