

Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez warned his team against
complacency ahead of their Champions League quarter-final first
leg tie against PSV Eindhoven on Tuesday.


Liverpool come into the game in fine form having thrashed Arsenal
4-1 at Anfield at the weekend.


But the 2005 European champions have sorry memories of the knock-
out stage of last season's competition when they were once again
the favourites but fell dismally 3-0 on aggregate to Portugal's
Benfica, who were then managed by current PSV boss Ronald Koeman.


Benitez admitted he thought his current squad is better equipped
to win this competition than the successful team of two years ago
but he is wary of potential banana skins.


"I think we have a better squad (this year) but in football you
never know," said the Spaniard.


"In the league I was confident (this season) because we had a
better squad but we didn't start very well away from home.


"Now I think we have a better team than when we won the Champions
League but you never know.


"When we had the draw against Benfica (last season) we thought it
could be one of the easier games but then we got knocked out.


"We must respect PSV. They are a very good team with experience.
After the first game we can say things and we will see the
solution at Anfield.


"The problem could be that we have more confidence (this year).
We need to be careful and put pressure on the players."


Benitez played down the significance of injuries on the tie,
pointing out that while PSV are missing crucial Brazilian centre-
back Alex and Ivory Coast forward Aruna Kone, Liverpool are
without Luis Garcia and Harry Kewell, themselves potential match-
winners.


He also played down the significance of the Koeman factor.


Koeman has a long history of thwarting English sides, starting
from when he scored the opening goal for the Netherlands in a
World Cup 94 qualifier, which the Netherlands went on to win 2-0.


Last season he was in charge of the Benfica side that helped
knock Manchester United out of the group stage of the competition
and then beat Liverpool in the first knock-out phase.


This season his PSV side dumped last season's finalists Arsenal
out in the first knock-out phase as well.


However, there is some solace for the English as Liverpool took
four points from a possible six against the Dutch outfit in the
group stage.


"It's not a question of the manager and English clubs," insisted
Benitez. "It's a situation and it's a different game. Sometimes
it's luck. In the first game against Benfica (last season, which
Liverpool lost 1-0), they scored in the last three minutes and
everything changed.


"In the second game (which Liverpool lost 2-0 at Anfield) we
needed to score first but they did."


Benitez said that character would play an important role in the
quarter-final ties and he and goalkeeper Pepe Reina pointed to
the influence of centre-back Jamie Carragher, who will be making
his 50th Champions League appearance if he lines up against PSV.


"We know how good and how important Carra (Carragher) is for us,"
said Reina. "He is half of Liverpool at the back sometimes. I'm
very proud to play alongside him.


"He is a good character and he's fantastic - an absolutely
professional player.


"This is an important character to have but all of us have a
different character and all of us are together, which is the
important thing.


"We can't all be the same as Carra. Everyone has his own
character and has to play his own way."

