

Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir on Monday formed a committee
tasked with investigating deadly clashes between police and
former Darfur rebels in Khartoum last month, the official SUNA
agency said.


The clashes left 11 dead and prompted the Sudan Liberation
Movement -- the only Darfur rebel group to have signed a peace
deal with Khartoum -- to threaten a resumption of hostilities.


SLM leader Minni Minnawi blamed the government and demanded an
investigation into the incident, the first of its kind in the
Khartoum area between security forces and SLM gunmen.


SUNA said the committee would be chaired by Supreme Court
magistrate Haidar Ahmed Dafaalla. It also includes MP Ghazi
Suleiman, a senior member of the former southern rebel movement
which now sits in the national unity government with Beshir's
party.


The presidential decree quoted by the news agency did not say
when the committee was expected to wrap up its inquiry.


The SLM also ended a standoff with the authorities on Monday when
it agreed to collect the bodies of the nine people who were shot
dead by police in the March 24 shootout.


The former rebel movement had initially said it would not
retrieve the corpses before 32 of its members detained in
connection with the incident were released.


But SLM spokesman Tayed Khamis said the nine were eventually
buried despite there being no progress on the fate of the
detainees.


Minnawi had accused the government of deliberately sparking the
deadly firefight to sabotage the peace process.


His group was the only one of three negotiating rebel factions to
sign a peace deal with the government in Abuja last year. As part
of the deal Minnawi was appointed special presidential adviser
and the SLM opened offices in Khartoum.


The unprecedented Khartoum violence has heightened fears that the
four-year conflict in the western Sudanese region of Darfur could
start spilling over into the capital.


Violence continued to escalate after the May 2006 peace deal, as
rebel splinter groups flourished and the regime consistently
rejected any UN peacekeeping deployment.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since the
conflict erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.

