

Nigeria, the biggest oil producer in Africa and sixth in the
world, will on Tuesday announce the date for the 2007 round of
bids for the oil blocs, officials said on Monday.


Energy Minister Edmund Daukoru on Tuesday " will announce the
date and detailed procedure for the 2007 bid round for oil
blocs," spokesman for the state-run oil firm Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Levi Ajuonuma, told AFP.


The announcement will likely indicate the number of blocs to be
put on auction and their locations, officials said.


Bidding for the sale of Nigeria's offshore oil blocs was
suspended several times last year.


The Nigerian government last December suspended until 2007 the
sale of around 60 crude oil blocs, initially anticipated for the
last quarter of 2006, officials from the Department of Petroleum
Resources (DPR) had said last January.


The DPR director, Tony Chukwueke, had in October told journalists
that the government was increasing the number of blocs up for
tender to 60 from 50 previously, owing to increased interest by
Asian investors, they said.


"We have had a flood of investors from Asia who are interested in
our downstream sector, in so far as we give them opportunity in
the upstream and this is forcing us to increase the number of
blocs on tender... from 50 blocs initially announced to 60,"
Chukwueke had said.


He also said that the new government policy gives preference to
companies that agree to invest in the downstream sector of the
industry.


Nigeria, which derives more than 95 percent of its foreign
exchange earnings from oil, hopes to realise about 500 million
dollars from the bloc bid round, he added.


The country normally produces about 2.6 million barrels of oil
per day but a quarter of this has been affected in the past
several months due to restiveness in the oil-rich Niger Delta.


Some 40 Nigerian troops and dozens of Nigerian oil workers were
killed by separatist militants in the delta last year while more
than 60 foreigners, mostly oil workers, were kidnapped.


Nigeria lost more than half a million barrels a day last year due
to unrest by those who want to see more of the earnings put back
into the local communities.


According to the country's Finance Minister Nenadi Usman, 570
billion naira (around 4.4 billion dollars / 3.5 billion euros) in
revenue was lost to unrest last year.


"Early in the second quarter of 2006, there was a loss of
production of 600,000 barrels per day from the joint venture
operations," Usman said.


"The loss was due principally to social disruptions in the Niger
Delta which continued until the end of fiscal year 2006," she
added.

