

Several explosions were heard early Monday near a Dutch court
where the trial of an alleged underworld boss and his accomplices
was due to start later in the day, Dutch media reported.


A police spokesman told ANP that several blasts were heard near
the high security court in Osdorp, a southwestern suburb of
Amsterdam. Several courthouse windows were broken.


Dutch media maintained the courthouse had been deliberately
targeted in the early hours Monday, but by midday AFP had yet to
receive official confirmation that the explosions were the result
of an attack.


No one was injured in the blasts that sounded around 3:00 am
(0100 GMT) at the Osdorp court and the courtroom was not damaged.


Despite the explosions, the trial of Willem Holleeder -- alleged
to be the kingpin of an Amsterdam gang that blackmailed four
businessmen and stands accused of murdering one man -- along with
his suspected accomplices was due to start as planned on Monday,
police told reporters.


In all, 10 people were to go on trial, including Holleeder's
girlfriend.


The defendants were set to be transferred to another Amsterdam
court, Dutch news agency ANP reported.


Holleeder was arrested in January 2006 along with his alleged
accomplices.


"My client feels terrible (about the explosion). Nevertheless, he
will participate in the trial," defendant Jan-Hein Kuijpers'
lawyer told reporters, insisting that he was "convinced that the
explosions did not come from my client's side."


While waiting for Holleeder, who set off for the trial from a
prison in the southern town of Vught Monday morning, the judges
began closed-door hearings of two of his alleged accomplices.


Holleeder, who served 11 years behind bars for the 1983
kidnapping of beer tycoon Freddy Heineken and his chauffeur, has
since his release from prison in 1992 reportedly climbed to
become one of Amsterdam's leading crime bosses.


He stands accused of running an organisation that carried out
shakedowns and blackmail of four businessmen in the real estate
sector, as well as the murder of Willem Endstra, who before being
shot down on an Amsterdam street in 2004 was renowned as the
"banker of the underworld."


The case against Holleeder, who has denied all the charges, is
largely based on police questioning of Endstra before his death.


Although he told investigators how he and his family had been
threatened by the suspected gangster, he refused to press charges
against Holleeder and broke all ties with police before his
murder.


The prosecutor has also launched an investigation into whether
Holleeder is implicated in several other shocking murders in the
Dutch capital in recent years.


The trial is expected to last for several weeks and a verdict is
due at the end of June.

