

Some 30,000 additional US troops sent as reinforcements to Iraq
will remain in the war-torn country until at least the end of
August, a US Defense Department spokesman said Monday.


The Pentagon has decided to deploy 7,000 troops to replace units
on their way out of Iraq, a move that will allow the
reinforcements to remain in Iraq until at least late August,
spokesman Bryan Whitman said.


"I am announcing right now additional major units that are
scheduled to deploy in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom,"
Whitman said, specifying that that corresponded to 7,000 troops.


"The level of effort that the United States military is
maintaining in Iraq is a build-up to 20 combat brigades.


"These combat brigades with these additional troop rotations ...
will permit the surge to continue at that level through ...
August 2007."


President George W. Bush announced the troop "surge" in January
in a new security effort to bring down sectarian violence in
Baghdad and the restive Al- Anbar province.


But his plan has proved unpopular, and he is locked in a showdown
with the Democratic-controlled Congress over an emergency funding
budget for the war, with US lawmakers seeking to tie the money to
a withdrawal from Iraq.


US military officials maintain that execution-style murders have
dropped significantly in Baghdad since the security crackdown
began.


US White House hopeful and Republican Senator John McCain boasted
to a group of reporters on Sunday during a visit to Iraq about
"encouraging signs" on the streets of Baghdad where he and three
colleagues walked and shopped.


McCain said the latest "surge" strategy was making progress in
quelling the bloodshed, citing what he called "reason for
cautious, very cautious optimism."


But before the congressmen's declarations, an Iraqi security
official highlighted the brutal reality in the country.


Citing government figures, he told AFP that the monthly death
toll of Iraqis rose 15 percent in March, the first full month in
which the Baghdad security plan has been operational.


Some 3,250 US troops have also died in Iraq since the March 2003
invasion, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon figures.


March was one of the deadliest months for the US military with 87
personnel killed, almost double the Iraqi armed forces' losses of
44.

