

Three consortiums are bidding to buy the Italian government's
stake in the troubled Italian carrier Alitalia, the economy
ministry said on Monday.


The main surprise offer came from Russian airline Aeroflot which
is bidding with banking partner Unicredito Italiano.


The second consortium is comprised of Italian bank Mediobanca,
investment fund Texas Pacific Group and privaty equity group
MatlinPatterson.


And the third bidder is AP Holding, which is the holding company
of the  owner of Italian airline Air One, Carlo Toto.


The Italian government, which is privatising the troubled
airline, has a 49.9 percent stake in Alitalia and plans to sell
at least 39.9 percent which would then force the buyer to make an
offer for the rest of the company.


Five consortiums had fielded bids at an earlier stage of the
procedure.


Candidates now have until April 16 to present preliminary offers,
including business plans for the airline.


Shares in Alitalia surged when they resumed trading after the
economy ministry announced details of the consortia, dealers
said.


In early afternoon trading, Alitalia shares were up 10.12 percent
at 1.0385, accelerating from the 4.45-percent gain seen before
the shares were suspended, while the S&P/Mib index was up
0.48 pct at 41,973.


"There has always been doubts on the market that valid solutions
to sell the airline could be found, so the news is positive for
the share price" said one dealer noting that there was a lot of
speculative interest in the share.


Another noted that the Unicredito-Aeroflot offer could turn out
to be the "best possible solution" with an Italian financial
partner and a Russian industrial partner.


The second dealer noted that while there could be risks of
political interference if Alitalia went into foreign hands, it's
all a matter of price and how close the offer will be to one euro
per share.


Earlier Unicredit said that if its bid with Aeroflot was accepted
it would acquire 5.0 percent of the Alitalia stake being offered
while Aeroflot would buy the remaining 95 percent, a company
official said.

