

Ireland coach Adrian Birrell believes that Pakistan and India's
shock World Cup elimination has grabbed the spotlight from his
team's achievements.


"It does irritate me a little bit. We deserve a little bit of
credit," said the coach whose side face a huge test on Tuesday
against world number one South Africa in the Super Eights.


"The media has set on us as being party poopers.


"If you look at the bigger schemes of things, the achievements of
Bangladesh and Ireland are very good for the game and it's the
policy of the ICC (International Cricket Council) to drive the
game globally."


Ireland, making their World Cup debut after qualifying from the
ICC Trophy in 2005, dumped Pakistan out of the World Cup with a
three-wicket upset in the first round last month.


India, champions in 1983, then followed Pakistan when they lost
to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, also in the first round.


The South-African born Birrell hoped Ireland's qualification for
the Super Eights, combined with Bangladesh's rise, will help
cricket move forward.


"Bangladesh are now a major team and like (Ricky) Ponting said
the tag of minnows should be dopped as they are a team that have
done well over a number of years. We are minnows but moving well
and the ICC deserve some credit for it."


The 46-year-old Birrell, who played and coached Eastern Province
in South Africa, said Ireland have set tasks for future.


"The goal for Ireland was to be the best associate team. We
missed an opportunity at being in the Twenty20 World Cup in South
Africa later this year. The next possiblity was to vie for one-
day status," said Birrell who steps down after the World Cup.


"I am sure our cricket will attain greater heights and Phil
Simmons, (former West Indian player) who will take over from me,
will help Ireland cricket."


Birrell said his team will not rely on their recent past
performances in the Super Eights.


"Confidence has risen as we have had a lot of success, but we are
not going into Tuesday's game looking at anything in the past. We
will try to do our disciplines just as we try to do all along."


South African born all-rounder Andre Botha said playing against
his compatriots will not feel any different for him.


"I have been away from home for several years now, so it will be
no different playing against South Africa," said Botha.


He praised South Africa's all-round abilities.


"It's a great honour to play against South Africa, obviously they
are number one in the world and they are a great outfit and their
allround performance is great.


"But we know what we need to do, we have got a game plan against
every team and with our game plan you never know we could
surprise any team."

