

Britain ruled out Monday any climbdown over demands for the
unconditional release of 15 naval personnel being held by Iran,
following their "stage- managed" appearances on Iranian
television.


Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman also said that "a
lot is going on behind the scenes" to secure the release of the
British sailors and marines captured in the northern Gulf on
March 23.


"The Iranians know our position. They know that stage-managed TV
appearances aren't going to affect that position. They know that
we have strong international support," the spokesman told a press
briefing.


Iranian state television has repeatedly broadcast footage of the
British personnel apparently confessing to having trespassed into
Iranian territorial waters.


Britain, which insists they were seized in Iraqi waters during
anti-smuggling operations with the support of UN resolutions and
Iraq's government, has voiced outrage at the sailors being
paraded on television.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said Britain replied on
Saturday to a letter from the Iranian embassy that had asked
London to acknowledge that the sailors had trespassed and
guarantee it would not happen again.


"We have responded to the Iranians initial letter and we are
waiting for further responses," said Blair's spokesman. "There's
a lot going on behind the scenes."


Earlier Monday, a British foreign office spokesman dismissed
claims from Tehran that all 15 naval personnel had confessed to
trespassing in Iraqi territorial waters.


"We can only reiterate our position," the spokesman said.


"They've been detained against their will, we have not had
consular access, we have made it quite clear they were seized in
Iraqi waters, and we want them released."


The Foreign Office also dismissed media reports that Britain and
Iran had agreed to discuss ways of avoiding disputes over
contested waters in the Gulf.


"The priority is getting access to our individuals who have been
detained and getting their release," the spokesman told AFP,
speaking on the customary condition of anonymity.


"We have had an exchange of notes with the Iranian authorities
and we're waiting for them to respond. The contents of such notes
are confidential between ourselves and the Iranians," he said.


"So any suggestion, implication that we're discussing avoiding
going into their waters or something is a little speculative at
this stage," he said.

