

Negotiations over the release of millions of dollars claimed by
Pyongyang dragged into a second week on Monday, with no sign of
progress in the impasse that has held up North Korean nuclear
talks.


Top US Treasury official Daniel Glaser was still in Beijing after
holding days of meetings with Chinese officials on the issue last
week, a US embassy spokeswoman said.


"I can confirm that he is still here. We don't know how much
longer he is going to be here," spokeswoman Susan Stevenson said
Monday.


South Korea's negotiator in the nuclear talks also arrived in
Beijing on Monday, a South Korean report said.


Lim Sung-nam "will stay in Beijing until Tuesday or Wednesday to
look at the progress of the talks to transfer North Korea's
money," said an unnamed foreign ministry official quoted by
Yonhap news agency.


The meetings were over how to arrange the return to North Korea
of about 25 million dollars frozen in a Macau bank by US
financial sanctions in 2005 due to accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting.


North Korea is demanding the return of the money before it will
cooperate further on a new North Korean nuclear disarmament
accord it signed in February. The United States has agreed to
free up the funds, which were supposed to be transferred within a
month after the February 13 nuclear deal was signed to a North
Korean account with the Bank of China.


However, the state-owned lender has reportedly refused to accept
the money for fear of possibly affecting its credit rating.


Glaser, the US deputy assistant Treasury secretary for terrorist
financing and financial crimes, has been meeting with officials
from China's foreign ministry, the central bank and the country's
banking industry regulator, his spokeswoman said last week.


He also held at least one meeting with North Korean officials,
also to try to resolve the impasse.


Both the United States and China have been tight-lipped about the
progress of the talks, and Stevenson said she had no further
details.


Christopher Hill, the chief US envoy to the six-nation talks that
reached the nuclear accord, said in Washington at the start of
Glaser's visit a week ago that he expected the banking issue to
be resolved in a "couple of days".

