

Jacob Oram led New Zealand's attack as they dismissed Bangladesh
for a meagre 174 in the World Cup Super Eights match at the Sir
Vivian Richards Stadium here Monday.


After a solid start, Bangladesh's innings fell away with four
wickets lost for seven runs in 29 balls.


Oram (three for 30) made the initial breakthrough with two top
order wickets and a run out before wrapping up the innings with
nine balls to spare by bowling last man Syed Rasal for 10.


Fellow all-rounder Scott Styris followed up with four for 43.


All the Bangladesh top order made it past 20 but no-one was able
to press on to a major score.


However, tailender Mohammad Rafique struck two sixes in his
unbeaten 30 and put on 34 for the tenth wicket with Rasel.


Bangladesh, with opener Javed Omar replacing Shahriar Nafees
following the 10-wicket defeat against world champions Australia,
made steady progress.


Javed, who'd shared a stand of 79 with Tamim Iqbal during
Bangladesh's two- wicket warm-up victory against New Zealand,
showed his class by lofting left-arm quick James Franklin for
four over mid-off.


By that stage the Black Caps had seen new-ball bowler Michael
Mason leave the field midway through an over.


That meant three quicks had gone off injured in the last two
matches here following the early exits Saturday of Australia's
Shane Watson and Bangladesh's Tapash Baisya.


New Zealand then saw Franklin exit with a migraine.


Back on the field, an opening stand worth 55 was ended in the
17th over. Teenage left-hander Tamim Iqbal, on 29, tried to sweep
Oram but over-balanced and was stumped by Brendon McCullum.


Omar went soon afterwards for 22, cutting a ball from pace bowler
Oram too close to him for the stroke and edging through to
wicket-keeper McCullum.


The batsman walked off without waiting for the umpire's decision
and Bangladesh were 62 for two.


Aftab Ahmed and Saqibul Hasan rebuilt steadily with a third-
wicket partnership of 43 although the run-rate remained at under
four an over.


Ahmed, looking to up the tempo on 27, tried to attack medium-
pacer Styris. But while he got elevation on a lofted drive he
lacked distance and substitute fielder Mark Gillespie held a
catch above his head at long-on.


Habibul Bashar, Bangladesh's captain, was run out for nine going
for a second run by Oram's direct hit from the point boundary.


And 122 for four was transformed into 127 for five when Hasan
(25) was beaten for pace by Shane Bond, who took an impressive
two for 15 off 10 overs, and clean bowled.


That became 127 for six when new batsman Mushfiqur Rahim went for
a five-ball nought, superbly bowled by a full length Bond
delivery that moved away late.


Styris struck twice in three balls to remove Mashrafe Mortaza and
Abdur Razzak but left-hander Rafique hit back by hoisting the
medium-pacer high over long-on for six.

