

Spain's Miguel Angel Moratinos became Monday the first European
foreign minister to visit Cuba since the EU imposed sanctions in
2003, hoping to breathe fresh air into tense relations.


Moratinos held talks with Cuban counterpart Felipe Perez Roque
and was scheduled to meet Tuesday with Cuban interim president
Raul Castro, who took over in July while his brother Fidel
recovers from gastrointestinal surgery.


"Today we start a new phase in which we will express our
opinions, which do not always converge but always seek
understanding, through firm, open dialogue," Moratinos said
before meeting Perez Roque.


"And we also hope to discuss what the relations between the
European Union and Cuba should be, given the international
context," he said.


Perez Roque thanked Moratinos for the talks.


"We thank you for your willingness to have a dialogue with us,"
he said. "We assure you of the loyalty of Cuban interlocutors in
the defense of the genuine interests of our peoples' relations."


Spain's Socialist government spearheaded the suspension of EU
sanctions in 2005, which were imposed after the Communist regime
detained 75 dissidents in a crackdown. The EU must decide in June
whether to extend the sanctions.


Spain's policy on Cuba has shifted since Prime Minister Jose Luis
Rodriguez Zapatero came to power in 2004, after his conservative
predecessor Jose Maria Aznar adopted a policy of isolating the
Communist island.


Moratinos's trip, assailed by Spain's conservative opposition,
will include meetings with regime apparatchiks including vice
presidents Carlos Lage and Jose Ramon Fernandez and parliament
president Ricardo Alarcon.


Moratinos defended his trip to Cuba, which gained independence
from Spain in 1898.


"It is absolutely unthinkable that Spain does not maintain,
defend and develop an intense, constructive and dialoguing policy
with Cuban authorities," he said.


Moratinos said he hoped to witness first hand the situation in
the Caribbean island "at an important moment for Cuba's future,"
amid uncertainty over the return of 80-year-old Fidel Castro to
power.


The Communist Party's official newspaper, Granma, said on its
front page Monday that the Spanish official's visit "shows the
way" to resolving disagreements with the EU "through dialogue."


Cuba wants "wider relations" with the EU, but based on "non-
interference in domestic affairs and the recognition of each
country's right to freely choose its economic and social system."


It was unknown if Moratinos or any members of his delegation
would meet with Cuban dissidents. Spanish media said Javier
Santodomingo, the foreign ministry's director general for Latina
America, would meet Wednesday with regime opponents.


The EU imposed political and diplomatic sanctions on Cuba in 2003
after the regime arrested and sentenced 75 dissidents to prison
sentences of six to 28 years. Sixteen have been released due to
poor health.


European diplomats in Havana are closely monitoring Moterinos's
visit, watching especially for any move from the Cuban government
regarding human rights.


Perez Roque invited his Spanish counterpart during a meeting on
March 17 in Madrid. Upon his return, Perez Roque said EU-Cuban
relations remained "cold" and "paralyzed" due to "pressure" from
the United States.


Moterinos is the first Spanish foreign minister to visit Cuba
since 1998, when Aznar's conservative government, which was in
power from 1996-2004, followed a hard stance against Catro's
regime to promote democratic change.

