

The US Supreme Court ruled Monday that the nation's Environmental
Protection Agency must consider greenhouse gases as pollutants
and deal with the issue, in a blow to US President George W.
Bush.


"Because greenhouse gases fit well within the Clean Air Act's
capacious definition of 'air pollutant' we hold that EPA has the
statutory authority to regulate the emission of such gases from
new motor vehicles," the court ruled.


Led by Massachusetts, a dozen states along with several US cities
and environmental groups went to the courts to determine whether
the agency had the authority to regulate greenhouse gases such as
carbon dioxide emissions.


"The harms associated with climate change are serious and well
recognized," said judge John Paul Stevens in the sharply-divided
ruling with five votes in favor to four against.


"EPA's steadfast refusal to regulate greenhouse gas emissions
presents a risk of harm to Massachusetts that is both 'actual'
and 'imminent.'"


The Bush administration has fiercely opposed any imposition of
binding emissions limits on the nation's industry and has refused
to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on reducing greenhouse gas blamed
for global warming.


Environmentalists have alleged that since Bush came to office in
2001 his administration has ignored and tried to hide looming
evidence of global warming and the key role of human activity in
climate change.


At a hearing in November, Massachusetts argued that it risked
losing more than 4.5 meters (15 feet) of land all along its
coastline if the sea level should rise 30 centimeters (one foot).


But the Bush administration backed by nine states and several
auto manufacturers urged the court not to intervene, arguing that
if the situation was so dire it could not be solved by a simple
legal decision.


It further argued that reducing emissions from new US motor
vehicles would have only a minor effect on global climate change.


"While it may be true that regulating motor-vehicle emissions
will not by itself reverse global warming, it by no means follows
that we lack jurisdiction to decide whether EPA has a duty to
take steps to slow or reduce it," the court ruled on Monday.


Environmental campaigners, who have been fighting for greater
regulations in a nation which accounts for a quarter of all
global greenhouse gas emissions, hailed Monday's ruling.


"It is a watershed moment in the fight against global warming,"
said Josh Dorner, spokesman for the Sierra Club environmental
group.


"This is a total repudiation of the refusal of the Bush
administration to use the authority he has to meet the challenge
posed by global warming.


It also "sends a clear signal to the market that the future lies
not in dirty, outdated technology of yesterday, but in clean
energy solutions of tomorrow like wind, solar," he added.


Bush has refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, saying it would
hurt the US economy, and is strongly opposed to its approach of
binding cuts, also called caps, in emissions.


Instead, he has promoted voluntary action, backed by some
incentives for cleaner energy sources and gains in energy
efficiency.


While the country's decision is unlikely to change US policy, it
has ramifications on several other ongoing issues, such as the
agency's refusal to regulate emissions from electricity plants
which produce some 40 percent of US carbon dioxide emissions.
Motor vehicles are responsible for just 20 percent.


Several states such as California have already acted
independently to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the new
Democratic-controlled Congress has also said it intends to tackle
the issue of climate change.

