

The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) on Monday expressed "great
concern and disappointment" at the leaking to the media of
details about champion swimmer Ian Thorpe's irregular drug test
result.


WADA called the leak a "serious breach of confidentiality".


"WADA is especially shocked that the name of an athlete was
apparently given to the media while no adverse analytical finding
has been determined at this point," the agency said in a
statement.


Thorpe, who began representing Australia when he was 14 and went
on to win five Olympic gold medals in freestyle and relay events
for his country, was named by French sports newspaper L'Equipe as
having returned a drug test with abnormal levels of testosterone
and luteinising hormone last May.


An angry and upset Thorpe fronted a media conference on the
sidelines of the World Swimming Championships in Melbourne on
Sunday to deny any wrongdoing.


He said he was devastated at the damage the smear would do to his
reputation as a swimmer and as a supporter of drug-free sport.


While WADA said it did not comment on pending procedures, it
added: "This particular case has not led to an analytical
positive result, but is rather an unusual situation which is
subject to further inquiry.


"Only when this process is completed and if an adverse analytical
finding is then made, will WADA be informed of an athlete's name.


"WADA's role as relates to doping control results management is
to assess the sanctioning process conducted by the relevant anti-
doping organizations following completion of the process.


"Should WADA consider that a decision does not comply with the
World Anti-Doping Code (Code), the Agency determines whether it
should exercise any rights of appeal that may exist.


"The apparent provision of an athlete's name to the media when it
should have been kept confidential is unacceptable," it said,
adding that it expected FINA and the Australian Sport Anti-Doping
Authority (ASADA) to deal responsibly with the matter.


Both FINA and ASADA have already announced that they would launch
inquiries into how the leak occurred.

