

Pakistani authorities placed a top Islamist MP under house arrest
Monday ahead of planned protests against President Pervez
Musharraf's removal of the country's top judge, officials said.


Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the chief of Pakistan's main coalition of
fundamentalist parties, said he had been detained for two days at
his residence in Islamabad.


"The government decision to detain me is undemocratic,
unconstitutional and illegal. It appears they are in a complete
panic," Ahmed told AFP by telephone.


"It's difficult to say at the moment whether I will try to
violate the detention order or not, but the protest will be held
as per our decision."


"The government has confined our leader but our workers will take
part in Tuesday's protest with full vigour. If the government
stops us, the law and order situation will be its
responsibility," said coalition spokesman Shahid Shamsi.


"Our protest is against the president's action against the chief
justice and the military dictatorship in the country," he said.


Interior minister Aftab Sherpao said he had "no knowledge" about
Ahmed's arrest. But a senior security official confirmed on
condition of anonymity that the leading Islamist was under
detention.


Military ruler Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry on March 9 over allegations of misconduct and
abuse of power, sparking a political crisis and a series of
nationwide protests against his rule.


The Islamic coalition, known as the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal or
United Action Front, called Tuesday's rally to coincide with the
next sitting of a panel of top judges who are hearing the charges
against Chaudhry.


Chaudhry denies the allegations.


Ahmed -- regarded as a rabble-rouser by the government -- was
also arrested on March 16 in Islamabad when he tried to break
through a security cordon at protests in the capital, which later
turned violent.


Lawyers and opposition parties loyal to exiled former prime
ministers Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif have also called for
separate but simultaneous demonstrations against Musharraf on
Tuesday.

