

UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Monday pleaded for more time to let
diplomacy work to end the conflict in Darfur, as the US and
Britain seek to win UN sanctions against Sudan.


"My position at this time is that before we talk about the
sanctions, let me have some more political space to deal with
this dialogue with them," Ban told journalists here.


He said he would soon dispatch a mission to Addis Ababa, where
the African Union (AU) is headquartered, for technical
discussions on the deployment of non- African UN peacekeepers to
Sudan's western Darfur region.


"I hope that I'll be able to dispatch the experts by early next
week," he said, adding he was also going to hold discussions on
Darfur with the AU chairman Alpha Oumar Konare during his visit
to New York on April 16 and 17.


Ban was speaking only hours after gunmen killed five African
peacekeepers in Darfur in the deadliest attack to hit the
embattled contingent since it was first deployed in the western
Sudanese region in 2004.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since fighting
began between local rebels and pro- government militia in
February 2003.


The African Union has some 7,000 troops deployed in the region,
but the under- funded and ill-equipped contingent has failed to
stem the violence, which the international community has blamed
on the Arab-dominated government in Khartoum, which enlisted the
Janjaweed militia to help crush the rebellion.


Ban has just returned from a tour of the Middle East, during
which he raised the issue of Darfur on several occasions.


Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said last week that
Sudan had reaffirmed its agreement to non-African UN soldiers
providing material support to AU peacekeepers in Darfur during a
rare meeting between the UN chief and Sudanese President Omar al-
Beshir.


The meeting appeared to be a small step towards a three-phase
plan to set up a hybrid AU-UN force, with the first two steps
involving the deployment of UN troops to provide logistical aid
to the AU.


The sticking point has been the third phase which envisions
17,000 UN troops and 3,000 police that Beshir has adamantly
rejected.


Ban added: "I'd like to strongly deplore this kind of killings
against peacekeepers in Africa. That really illustrates the
necessity and urgency of dispatching the hybrid peacekeepers to
Darfur."


The United States has already said it will seek a United Nations
resolution aimed at forcing Khartoum to let a UN-led peacekeeping
force into Darfur.


And the call has been backed by British Prime Minister Tony Blair
who last month said: "The brutal action of the Sudanese
government is completely unacceptable."


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir, who in March backtracked on an
agreement to let 20,000 UN-led peacekeepers into the region,
accuses the West of wanting to invade his country and plunder its
resources.

