

Zimbabwe's opposition leader Monday called on South African
President Thabo Mbeki to move quickly to defuse the crisis across
his border where a general strike was set to ratchet up tensions
another notch.


Morgan Tsvangirai's plea came while he was in Johannesburg for a
medical check after being recently assaulted as fellow opposition
activists, arrested and then beaten in custody last week, were to
appear in court in Harare.


Authorities in Zimbabwe again accused opponents of President
Robert Mugabe of being manipulated by the West, warning that a
workers' shutdown on Tuesday would only serve to add to the
country's economic woes.


Mbeki was appointed by fellow southern Africa leaders on Thursday
to act as a mediator between Mugabe's government and Tsvangirai's
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC).


The size of his task became apparent on Friday when Mugabe openly
acknowledged his security forces had assaulted Tsvangirai and
other members of his MDC movement before securing the endorsement
of his party to stand in next year's presidential elections, when
he will be 84 years old.


"It is critical that President Mbeki act quickly and decisively
to halt the suffering of millions of Zimbabweans," Tsvangirai
told journalists in South Africa. "There is no time to waste."


A UN human rights expert meanwhile said police officers and
soldiers in Zimbabwe who obey orders to shoot demonstrators could
face prosecution for crimes against humanity.


"The Zimbabwe government must immediately halt its use of lethal
force against unarmed political activists," the UN Special
Rapporteur on extrajudicial or summary executions, Philip Alston,
said in a statement.


Alston underlined that military or police officers were only
legally entitled to kill in self-defence or to defend another
person's life.


Mbeki has come under fire in some quarters for failing to
publicly criticise Mugabe, instead advocating a policy of "quiet
diplomacy".


However Tsvangarai said he welcomed the prospect of regional
involvement in Zimbabwe's problems.


"The MDC is ready to participate fully in a transparent
dialogue," he said. "The people of Zimbabwe need food and jobs,
they need freedom and help."


Tsvangirai is a former president of the Zimbabwe Coalition of
Trade Unions (ZCTU), the organisers of this week's planned
general strike which is designed to further turn up the heat on
Mugabe.


The union has vowed to press on with the strike, called over
authorities' failure to respond to the worsening economic crisis.


"Everything is set for tomorrow (Tuesday) and Wednesday,"
Wellington Chibebe, ZCTU secretary general told AFP.


"There is no going back because we are hungry."


The government however urged workers to shun the strike call,
saying it would only worsen the situation.


"Such actions only serve to add further hardships to the ordinary
people of Zimbabwe, including workers and their families," Norman
Chakanetsa, a senior official in the industry and international
trade ministry, told the state-run Herald daily.


Police also announced that a special police branch, incorporating
members of the military, that deals with emergency situations
would be deployed during the strike.


Central bank governor Gideon Gono admitted the country's economy
was in deep trouble, saying "rampant and naked indiscipline in
the economy is a major driver of the current crisis" while
rejecting calls for the Zimbabwe dollar to be devalued.


The inflation rate in Zimbabwe now stands at a staggering 1,730
percent while around 80 percent of people are out of work.


Meanwhile nine MDC activists who were allegedly dragged from
their hospital beds on Saturday night were due to appear in court
to face charges in connection with a number of recent reported
firebombings, their lawyers said.

