

South Africa coach Mickey Arthur paid a glowing tribute to his
Irish counterpart Adrian Birrell for transforming the World Cup
debutants into a highly- competitive outfit.


Birrell is a South African who has been coaching Ireland for the
past four years, having played a big role in his team's
qualifying for the tournament. He has represented Eastern
Province as a leg-spinner and a useful batsman.


"I'm really happy for 'AB' and what he's done for Irish cricket.
It's really good to come up against him again," Arthur said of
the Irish coach, who is stepping down after the tournament.


South Africa have already had a taste of the Irish
competitiveness in a warm-up game in Trinidad last month when
they crashed to 91-8 against pacemen Trent Johnston and David
Langford-Smith.


Ireland lost the practice game, but did extremely well in the
tournament when they pulled off an upset victory over former
champions Pakistan in a group match in Jamaica.


They also tied their game against Zimbabwe before qualifying for
the second round. They gave a good account of themselves in their
opening Super Eights fixture here as they made England struggle
for victory.


"I think what makes them a tough side is that they play for each
other. They have an incredible team ethic, and that again is
credit to him and what he has done with the side," said Arthur.


"As coaches you all strive to go in the right direction with a
good work ethic and a sound structure and he's got it right with
them.


"They play with an incredible amount of passion and they play for
each other and in tight games that's the key as we saw against
Pakistan and Zimbabwe when they came from virtually the dead to
tie that game."


Arthur said no team could afford to take Ireland lightly.


"We always knew they're going to give a hard time to a few teams
along the way. I've known Adrian for a while now and I admire the
way he coaches teams," said the South Africa coach.


"He tends to get the best out of his players, very well
organised, very well structured and they're scrappers. We came up
against them in the warm-up game in Trinidad and they pushed us,
so it doesn't surprise us at all.


"This is the business end of the competition and you can't afford
any slip up. Our preparation, our mental training is the same it
would have been for any other game of the Super Eights."


South Africa, who made it to the second round without any points,
opened their account in their Super Eights game here when they
prevailed over Sri Lanka by one wicket in a tense encounter.


They will take on Ireland here on Tuesday, followed by matches
against New Zealand, England, the West Indies and Bangladesh.


"We've done as much as we could. We obviously had a lot of video
footage. We had to take the Pakistan footage out and put the
Irish footage in. We've done as much as we can. We've looked at
them in depth," said Arthur.


Ireland, who have yet to open their account in the second round,
will play defending champions Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka
and Bangladesh in their last four matches.

