

US electronics giant Texas Instruments on Monday became the first
major chipmaker to rule out India as the site of a new plant, in
a blow to India's ambitions of becoming a microchip industry hub.


"I'm excited about anything that opens up markets," said Rich
Templeton, president and chief executive officer of the Dallas-
based company.


But he added that "from TI's point of view, our investment focus
in India will remain on research and product development."


Texas Instruments may sub-contract work to chip foundries that
set up in India, but will not consider the country as a
manufacturing location, Templeton told a news conference in
Bangalore, India's hi-tech hub.


India's main asset is the research and development capability of
local engineers, he said, adding Texas Instruments had a choice
of other locations where it could establish a manufacturing
plant.


Texas Instruments was the first international chipmaker to set up
a research facility in India, in 1985, and its rejection of the
country as a manufacturing base is a setback to government plans
of attracting billions of dollars in investment.


Others, including Intel, AMD, and Toshiba, have been silent.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's government in February unveiled
incentives including tax breaks, subsidies and interest-free
loans for chimakers to set up factories. The incentives will be
valid for the first 10 years of operations.


India's Hindustan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp (HSMC) said
last month that it would invest up to 4.5 billion dollars to
build two chipmaking facilities in a licensing tie-up with German
chipmaker Infineon Technologies.


According to India's Information Technology Minister Dayanidhi
Maran,  domestic demand for the semiconductors, or microchips,
"is projected to reach 36 billion dollars by 2015 riding on the
booming electronic goods manufacturing in India."


The rise is thanks to surging demand for consumer electronics,
wireless communications and automotive products in an economy
growing by around nine percent.


The country's semiconductor market now stands at 3.25 billion
dollars.


Templeton acknowledged the potential of the Indian market for
microchips that go into products ranging from mobile phones,
liquid crystal displays and smart cards to personal computers and
automobiles.


Demand will also come from manufacturers of a range of industrial
products, such as power generators, energy meters and motor
controls that ensure electricty is not wasted, he said.

