

Families of the Britons held by Iran have only awkward video
footage and curious letters to reassure themselves about the
state of the 15 young sailors caught in the eye of a diplomatic
storm.


Appearing in camouflage fatigues in front of floral print
backdrops or maps of the northern Gulf where they were seized,
the captives are at the heart of the increasingly bitter stand-
off between London and Tehran.


From the Iranian state television footage of the 10 identified so
far, they do not appear to have been beaten or denied food, and
the men are clean shaven.


The eight sailors and seven marines, some of whom appeared in
another video Monday, are all in their twenties.


The family of one captive, Royal Marine Captain Chris Air, said
in a statement Monday they were enduring a daily "nightmare" that
has left them on the brink of despair.


In footage broadcast Sunday on Iran's state-run Arabic-language
channel Al-Alam, Air and Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman
appeared pointing at maps behind them of the northern Gulf.


"Each morning as this nightmare continues we are confronted with
the awful reality that the situation is at present unresolved,"
Air's relatives said.


The family said the pictures had brought them "some comfort."


"It was reassuring to see him alive and physically fit, although
looking tired. We also felt incredibly proud of him as he
presented himself with calmness and professionalism under what
must have been huge pressure," they said.


Leading Seaman Faye Turney, 26 -- the only woman among the group
-- was the first put up to speak before a camera.


Wearing a headscarf, smoking and looking nervous, she spoke
slowly and deliberately in the video released Wednesday, five
days after their March 23 capture.


Three handwritten letters have been attributed to her: one to her
parents, one to "Representative of the House of Commons" and one
"To British people."


The curious English and seemingly odd content have led some to
wonder how much influence her captors had.


In media interviews on HMS Cornwall in the days before her
capture, Turney said she enjoyed her job and was working to
provide a better life for her three-year- old daughter Molly. Her
husband Adam is a Royal Navy sailor.


The parents of Mark Banks, 24, a Royal Marine for around three
years, made an emotional statement Monday, saying he would be
humbled by the way his family and friends have rallied round.


Nathan Thomas Summers, 21, a Royal Navy sailor, was featured in
the second video, and his words had clearly been edited.


His father said it was a relief to see his son was alive and
well, though he said his son was "obviously given a script."


His village in Cornwall, southwest England, has launched a yellow
ribbon campaign.


Britain's Ministry of Defence has declined to name the sailors,
whose identities have become known either via their families or
the Iranian video footage.


Adam Sperry, 22, is a Royal Marine from Leicester, central
England.


His uncle Ray Cooper said: "It's all very well saying it's wrong
to parade them, but when it's your family it's a good feeling.


"To see him, it's great. He looked brilliant, if a bit thin."


Danny Masterton, 26, from Muirkirk in southwest Scotland, is the
son of a former professional footballer who played for Clyde and
Ayr United.


The serviceman's sister, Sarah, told The Sun newspaper: "It is a
very hard time for all of us. My mum is also in hospital, which
makes things worse."


Also named is Paul Barton, 21, from Southport. He is believed to
live with his mother and sister in the northwest English seaside
resort.


The others named so far are Joe Tindell, 21, of south London, and
Corporal Dean Harris, a 24-year-old Royal Marine from Carmarthen,
west Wales.

