

British researchers said Monday they have grown human heart
tissue from stem cells, raising hopes for the transplant of
replacement valve tissue within a few years.


Researchers told AFP the advance could eventually lead to the
production of "off-the-shelf hearts," perhaps within a decade,
though this would require a sophisticated international effort.


Researchers led by Magdi Yacoub, Egyptian-born professor of
cardiac surgery at Imperial College London, said they have grown
tissue from stem cells in bone marrow that works in the same way
as the valves in human hearts.


Stem cells are immature cells that grow into various tissues.


"We have a sort of rudimentary new valve tissue," Adrian Chester,
one of the lead researchers, told AFP.


"We have been using various mechanical stimulae to cause this
change in the cell function. We are still a matter of (three)
years away before being able to test this in an animal."


Animal tests would allow scientists to determine how the tissue
holds up under pressure of blood flows before experiments on
human beings, he added.


"We need to know the durability and the strength of the tissue we
would want to implant into a human," Chester said.


There is a global shortage of replacement organs, and though some
of the functions can be reproduced by artificial systems, not all
can.


"The way a living valve functions, it anticipates haemodynamic
events and responds and changes its shape and size," Yacoub told
The Guardian newspaper.


"It's completely different from an artificial valve that will
just open and shut."


If a damaged part of the body can be replaced by tissue that is
genetically matched to the patient, it cannot be rejected.


Scientists until now have grown tendons, cartilage and bladders
but none of these has the complexity of organs.


The Guardian said that many people suffering from heart valve
disease have artificial replacement valves, but such valves work
less well than the real thing, even if they do save lives.


Chester told AFP that there was now hope for growing whole
hearts, though the problem is complex.


"The long-term goal of engineering a whole heart would achieve
the answer to the shortage of donors, if we were able to have an
off-the-shelf heart," he said.


"It is very much more in its infancy because the whole heart is a
much more complex organ with very specialised cells and vascular
supply. That's why that's going to take at least 10 years
probably," he said.


Professor Colin McGuckin, a Newcastle University researcher who
has grown a miniature artificial human liver, said he believed
German researcher Christof Stamm produced heart valve tissue from
stem cells last year.


"It's a first in this country. In itself for even two groups to
achieve this so early on in stem cells (research) is really
astounding," he said.


McGuckin said replacement tissue for heart valves in animals may
be achievable within years, but it was "a long way off" for
humans. Whole hearts may be 50 years away, he added.


World Health Organisation figures show that there were 15 million
deaths from heart disease in 2005, the Guardian said. By 2010, it
is estimated that 600,000 people around the world will need
replacement heart valves.


The heart valve research will be published in August in a special
edition of the journal Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society, the paper added.

