

A UN human rights expert warned Monday that police officers and
soldiers in Zimbabwe who obey orders to shoot demonstrators could
face prosecution for crimes against humanity.


"The Zimbabwe government must immediately halt its use of lethal
force against unarmed political activists," the UN Special
Rapporteur on extrajudicial or summary executions, Philip Alston,
said in a statement.


Alston underlined that military or police officers were only
legally entitled to kill in self-defence or to defend another
person's life.


"Under international law, widespread or systematic attacks
against the civilian population are crimes against humanity," he
said.


"Members of the police and military who comply with orders to gun
down demonstrators will eventually be held to account," Alston
added.


The UN expert called for a full and independent investigation
into the killing of nine to 11 people who were either shot or
beaten to death, saying the cases were "particularly troubling."


"The government is, in effect, instructing its forces to shoot
innocent people in complete disregard for the right to life,"
Alston added.


Thousands of Zimbabwean workers are expected to take part in a
general strike this week, as pressure mounts on President Robert
Mugabe's regime over its violent crackdown on political opponents
and the country's economic meltdown.


Alston highlighted the killing of opposition activist Gift
Tandare -- who was shot dead at an aborted anti-government rally
on March 11 -- and the shooting of Nickson Magondo and Naison
Mashambanhaka at his funeral.


He also cited eight to 10 deaths at hospitals in the capital
Harare "from injuries consistent with being beaten by state
security agents."


Alec Muchadehama, a lawyer for the opposition Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC), claimed on Sunday that nine other
Zimbabwean opposition activists were abducted from hospital,
reportedly by state security agents.


They were being treated for injuries suffered after a police
crackdown last week.

