

Iran's top security official said Monday that there was "no need"
for a trial in the case of 15 captured British naval personnel,
stressing Tehran wanted to resolve the situation diplomatically.


Ali Larijani, the head of the supreme national security council,
described the standoff as "quite resolvable" in an interview with
Britain's Channel Four television.


"Definitely our priority is to solve the problem through proper
diplomatic channels. We are not interested in having this issue
get further complicated," he said.


"We definitely believe that this issue can be resolved. And there
is no need for any trial."


Iran claims that all 15 of the detainees -- 14 men and one woman
-- have now confessed to illegally entering Iranian waters.


State television has shown brief footage of the group talking to
camera, but the sound was not broadcast.


Iran has decided to hold back from airing voiced confessions from
them all because of a shift in London's position, the ISNA news
agency reported without citing sources.


But Britain has strongly denied that it would backpedal in the
affair, although direct contacts with Iran are continuing.


"The Iranians know our position. They know that stage-managed TV
appearances aren't going to affect that position. They know we
have strong international support," Prime Minister Tony Blair's
official spokesman said Monday.


Larijani indicated that there would be "no problem" in
negotiating with British authorities and added that Iran wanted
to resolve the situation "as soon as possible".


"There is no interest or benefit in this issue to keep some
British soldiers in Iran, to keep them away from families," he
said.


"From the humanitarian point of view, it may be exigent for them
to return to the families as soon as possible."


Calling on Britain to admit its "mistake", he called for a cool-
headed review of the case.


Larijani also criticised the European Union, claiming it had
"started to condemn Iran without knowing the facts" over the
capture of the group.


He accused the EU of using "the language of force" by expressing
"unconditional support" for Britain last week and threatening
"appropriate measures" unless the captives were released quickly.


"Unfortunately some EU members also started to take positions and
it was interesting for me that prior to knowing that they were in
our territorial waters or not... they started to condemn Iran
without knowing the facts," he said, through an interpreter.


"In other words, it means that EU members are making a mistake...
and that is the language of force, and therefore the EU would
have no different position or attitude as compared to the United
States."

