

New Zealand on Monday faced accusations that their players
racially abused catering staff before last week's World Cup Super
Eights match with hosts West Indies.


According to a report in Monday's Antigua Sun, unnamed players
were alleged to have said "good morning niggers" to employees of
the Goddard Catering Group shortly before the start of last
Thursday's match at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


The Sun's report also said the International Cricket Council
(ICC) had begun an investigation after a complaint from a staff
member.


However, New Zealand general manager Lindsay Crocker said the
Sun's report had been "grossly embellished" although he added
he'd investigated the issue with Cricket World Cup operations
director Michael Hall.


Crocker explained that catering staff had been interviewed after
suggestions they heard the word "nigger" used during a private
conversation between three or four squad members.


He added that staff were unable to identify those they thought
might be involved and Crocker stressed that no derogatory
comments were directed at the caterers.


"We became aware of a rumour circulating among the catering staff
that there was a racially based comment made in the players'
lounge as everyone was assembling," Crocker said.


"We talked to the catering staff and we quickly found there were
three or four people in the room at the time," Crocker also told
reporters here Monday.


"They weren't able to tell me who they were, they indicated they
were older members of the group.


"The three had been talking on the other side of the room and the
catering staff thought they heard this one word 'nigger' in the
conversation.


"They weren't sure if they heard it accurately, they didn't hear
any other comments, and the comments weren't directed at the
catering staff," Crocker added.


"It became clear to Michael (Hall) and myself there was no great
substance to this. There was no complaint or allegation from
staff whatsoever.


"As far as we were concerned it died then and there."


But having seen the story make headlines, Crocker added: "It was
an enormous surprise to see those rumours have been embellished
the way they were.


"The report was grossly embellished based on a rumour which is
utterly inaccurate."


New Zealand's multi-cultural squad features batsman Ross Taylor,
whose mother is Samoan, and off-spinner Jeetan Patel, both of
whose parents are from India.


Crocker said it was "highly unlikely" any member of the Black
Caps party could be guilty of racism.


Hall told the Sun the incident was a "misunderstanding" while a
spokesman for the catering company in Barbados said they were
unaware of any complaints made by staff at the ground.

