

Real estate mogul Sam Zell will buy media giant Tribune Co. and
take it private in a 13-billion-dollar deal, the Chicago-based
company announced Monday.


It is the latest in a series of shakeups in the troubled and
increasingly fragmented US media market as shareholders balk at
falling profits amid rising competition from the Internet and
cable television.


Zell won the bidding after months of negotiations, besting an
offer from Los Angeles-based billionaires Ron Burkle and Eli
Broad.


"I am delighted to be associated with Tribune Company, which I
believe is a world-class publishing and broadcasting enterprise,"
said Zell, a Chicago-based real estate mogul listed as 52nd in
the Forbes list of the 400 richest Americans.


"As a long-term investor, I look forward to partnering with the
management and employees as we build on the great heritage of
Tribune Company."


Zell will take over the group owning the Chicago Tribune and Los
Angeles Times at a time when traditional media have been
struggling with the loss of advertising revenue and audiences.


Newspaper circulation has been steadily declining by about three
percent a year and nearly 4,000 newsroom jobs have been lost
since the beginning of the decade, said Rick Edmonds, the media
business analyst at the Poynter Institute in Florida.


"It's pretty clear newspapers are in for a troubling time in the
short term," Edmonds said.


Declining profits have forced down the share prices of major
media companies and led to a slew of layoffs and a loss of
investment in investigative reporting and foreign and regional
bureaus.


It has also opened the door to private takeovers of major
conglomerates, reversing 40-year trend of taking media companies
public, Edmonds told AFP.


"We seem to be in a period where private markets value these
properties more than public markets."


The hope is that private owners will be more willing to invest in
quality journalism as they focus on long-term profitability.


"There are many of us who hope someone like Zell will help rescue
journalism," said Bill Kovach, senior counselor at the
Washington-based Project for Excellence in Journalism.


"I hope Zell is smart enough to realize it's the work of the
newsroom - the content - that's of value."


It is unlikely that newspapers will be able to survive in their
current format, Kovach said, and Zell's challenge is to find a
way to make money selling editorial content online.


"What we're seeing is the end of the mass media era," said Rich
Gordon, director of the new media program at Northwestern's
Medill School of Journalism.


"The fragmentation of the market and shrinking of the audience
has been going on for decades. That decline is unavoidable and
inevitable because we have so much more choice," he said in a
telephone interview.


"The new recipe for media success is much more targeted, is going
to require making money in new ways and is much more digitally
driven."


The deal calls for Zell to contribute 315 million dollars of an
8.1 billion dollar purchase price, amounting to 34 dollars per
share. An employee stock ownership plan, financed through new
debt, will provide the rest of the cash while five billion in
existing debt will remain on the Tribune's books.


Tribune Co. also owns the New York daily Newsday, The Baltimore
Sun, South Florida Sun-Sentinel, Orlando Sentinel and Hartford
Courant as well as 23 television stations and the Chicago Cubs
baseball team.


The statement said the company would sell the baseball club at
the end of the 2007 season.


For Tribune Co. the deal marks a new chapter for a company
started in 1847 with the birth of the Chicago Tribune. It became
a publicly traded company only in 1983.


In 2000, Tribune Co. bought the Times Mirror group, including the
flagship Los Angeles Times, for 8.3 billion dollars in what was
then the largest acquisition in the newspaper industry.


Its aim was to replicate its success in the competitive Chicago
market, where it used cross-promotion in its radio, television
and newspaper to expand its reach, in New York and Los Angeles.


But the company has struggled with the loss of advertising
revenues to online media including Google. And in the past year
its shareholders, including the Chandler family trusts that
originally owned the Los Angeles Times, have publicly voiced
dissatisfaction.


The Chandler Trusts agreed to vote in favor of the deal, which
calls for seven billion dollars in new financing from Citigroup,
Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase.

