

Romanian President Traian Basescu on Monday condemned Prime
Minister Calin Tariceanu's decision to create a new minority
government, saying it defied the results of the 2004
parliamentary elections.


On Sunday, Tariceanu sacked eight ministers close to the
president, with whom he has an ongoing feud, and a day later
unveiled a new cabinet excluding all members of Basescu's party,
until now a partner in the ruling coalition.


"In excluding from government the ministers of the Democratic
Party, Mr Tariceanu has radically changed the political
composition of the cabinet so it no longer respects the wishes of
the electorate," Basescu said in a statement.


"If parliament approves this government, there risks being a
split between the legislature and Romanian society."


The new cabinet list, which contains 17 names, includes members
of Tariceanu's National Liberal Party as well as the Democratic
Union of Romanian Magyars (UDMR), which represents the country's
Hungarian minority.


With 105 seats out of a total 469 in parliament, the prime
minister will need the support of the opposition Social Democrat
Party (PSD) for parliament to approve his new government.


Basescu warned this position risked weakening the government's
power and called for either a "transparent majority" cabinet
comprising Tariceanu's liberals and the social democrats, or for
fresh elections to be called.


Speaking earlier, Tariceanu said the priorities of the new
cabinet, which parliament will vote on Tuesday, will be "to fight
corruption and reduce gaps" between Romania and other European
Union countries.


He told a press conference that "the government's midterm
assessment is positive but we needed a more efficient structure,
with a European make-up, to fulfil the requirements linked to
Romania's entry into the EU" on January 1.


The head of the government's Department for the Fight against
Fraud, Tudor Chiuariu, 29, will take over as justice minister, a
key position as Brussels could slap Bucharest with further
safeguard measures if it is too slow in implementing EU-required
justice reforms.


Chiuariu will have his work cut out for him following outgoing
Justice Minister Monica Macovei, who was well-liked in Brussels
and whose departure could slow down efforts to fight corruption.


Adrian Cioroianu, an historian and member of the European
Parliament, is to head the foreign ministry while Theodor
Melescanu, a former foreign minister, will be given the defence
portfolio.


The new government will for the first time have a regional
development ministry as well as a combined economy and finance
ministry, to be headed by current Economy Minister Varujan
Vosganian.


The UDMR, which held four positions in government, including that
of deputy prime minister in charge of education and culture, will
no longer have the trade and public works portfolios, which have
been eliminated, but will handle regional development and the
environment instead.


Tariceanu said on Sunday he had sacked the ministers from
Basescu's party to end the "permanent disputes that have
undermined the government".


Media reports said the prime minister was already guaranteed
support from most of the 150 Social Democrat deputies, following
negotiations between the Liberals and the PSD.


But analysts predict an "uncertain future" for the new cabinet,
which will have to make concessions to remain in power.


"The government will go from one concession to the next until
parliamentary elections are held in late 2008, which will
seriously dent the Liberals' image in the eyes of voters,"
editorialist Rodica Ciobanu wrote in the daily Gandul.


She said the prime minister could be forced to give in on several
important projects, such as the proposed National Agency for
Integrity (ANI) which is to check the origin of lawmakers' and
magistrates' assets, and has faced tough opposition from several
parties.

