

A powerful undersea earthquake unleashed a tsunami that pounded
the Solomon Islands on Monday, destroying entire villages and
killing at least 15 people, with the toll expected to rise,
officials said.


The wall of water triggered by the 8.0-magnitude quake -- which
witnesses said was up to five metres (16.5 feet) high -- swamped
towns, flattened homes, and sparked panic among residents of the
impoverished South Pacific state.


"My heart goes out to all of you in this very trying time," Prime
Minister Manasseh Sogavare said in an address to the nation.


He warned the death toll would probably rise after rescue teams
reach the stricken areas in the west of the archipelago and the
true extent of the damage became known.


The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre issued a regionwide warning
immediately after the quake, stretching as far as Japan, but
withdrew the alert when it became clear other countries would not
be seriously affected.


An earthquake off Indonesia's island of Sumatra in December 2004
spawned a tsunami that spread across the Indian Ocean, killing
220,000 people.


At least 15 people were killed in and around Gizo, the main town
in Western Province and a popular tourist and diving spot about
40 kilometres (25 miles) from Monday's quake epicentre, its
provincial leader said.


"Reports have come in that more than 15 people died, just around
Gizo, but with the other islands I cannot tell you," premier Alex
Lokopio told Radio New Zealand.


Police said they had reports of at least 14 dead, 12 in the Gizo
area and two elderly men in nearby Choiseul province.


Telephone lines to the area were down, making it hard to assess
the number of casualties and damage.


A helicopter and aircraft sent to assess the damage were diverted
to ferry the injured to hospitals. A fuller assessment would
emerge when they returned to the area Tuesday, police spokesman
Mick Spinks said.


But the head of the Solomons National Disaster Council, Fred
Fakari, told journalists in Honiara: "Some villages are
completely wiped out."


The government's communications unit reported six bodies found
floating in the sea near Gizo, hours after the shallow quake
struck at 7:40 am (2040 GMT Sunday).


It said other bodies could not be retrieved because of rough
seas.


The US Geological Survey reported aftershocks measuring up to 6.7
throughout Monday, including quakes of of 6.2 and 6.0 on Monday
evening. Geophysicists warned that more large earthquakes could
be expected in the coming days.


Across the Pacific, governments from Australia to New Caledonia
evacuated schools and urged coastal residents to move to higher
ground, but no damage was reported.


But on Australia's east coast, panicked residents evacuated
homes, hospitals, schools and beaches and fled to high ground as
fears of a destructive tsunami rippled across the region.


The panic hit after a powerful, eight-magnitude earthquake struck
the Solomon Islands at 7:40 am (2040 GMT Sunday), sending a
tsunami smashing into nearby low-lying islands.


Lokopio said they badly needed emergency supplies for Gizo, where
residents remained on a hill behind town because of aftershocks.


"What we desperately need now is water, tents and food because
almost 3,000 to 4,000 people are now living on the hill at Gizo."


He said people had been surprised by the waves. "There wasn't any
warning," he said. "This was a very sad thing because the warning
was the earth tremors. It shook us very, very strongly and we
were frightened.


"All of a sudden, the sea was rising up so all the people living
around the coastal area, they ran up on the hill."


Lokopio said that most government buildings and businesses in
Gizo had been destroyed as well as houses in low-lying areas.


Police said that witnesses reported waves washing up to 500
metres (yards) inland.


Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Canberra had
made an initial offer of up to two million dollars (159 million
US) in emergency and reconstruction assistance to the Solomon
Islands.


The Solomon Islands, 2,575 kilometres east of Australia, has a
little over half a million people living on dozens of islands,
although hundreds more are uninhabited.


It is part of the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where continental plates
meet and experiences frequent volcanic and seismic activity, and
a leading Australian seismologist warned of further quakes to
come.


"We should be aware there is a better than 50-50 chance that
there'll be another magnitude 8.0 earthquake in the Solomon
Islands in the next few hours to the next few weeks," Professor
Kevin McCue told the Australian Associated Press.


"This happened in 1971, 1973, 1974 and 1977, so we have a good
track record of this kind of thing happening," said McCue, the
director of the Australian Seismological Centre.

