

Kyrgyz opposition leader Felix Kulov is ready for talks with
President Kurmanbek Bakiyev, but has refused to call off mass
protests due next month, a Russian newspaper reported Monday.


"If Bakiyev wants to meet with me, of course I am not going to
refuse, given that politics is a matter of negotiation," Kulov
told the Russian daily Vremya Novosti.


"But there is one condition," the former Kyrgyz prime minister
added. "That the negotiations are not held one-to-one ... that
these won't be secret meetings."


Peaceful demonstrations planned to start on April 9 in the
provincial cities and on April 11 in the capital, would go ahead
"peacefully", he added. The demonstrations are aimed at securing
an early presidential election.


Bakiyev, whose mandate runs until 2010, has ruled out early
presidential elections, although he said last week that he might
agree to hold a referendum on his leadership this summer.


On Monday, presidential spokesman Nurlan Shakiyev told AFP that
President Bakiyev was ready to meet Kulov.


"Bakiyev is always aiming for negotiations with the opposition,"
Shakiyev said.


Kulov had harsh words for Almaz Atambayev, the new prime minister
nominated last week by Bakiyev and accepted by parliament on
Friday.


"This government is destined to be the hostage of the prime
minister's ambitions and Atambayev only represents himself," he
said.


Bakiyev's appointment of Atambayev, a moderate critic, was seen
as a bid to appease Kulov and the rest of the opposition, and
head off the threat of the mass street protests.


But although parliament accepted Atambayev as prime minister
Friday, he is already having trouble forming the broad-based
government he wanted. The opposition parties have already refuse
to join his government.


The change of prime minister came after Atambayev's predecessor
sacked seven cabinet members in a bid to allay opposition
concerns, but was over-ruled by Bakiyev.


The opposition has accused Bakiyev of corruption, mismanagement
and failing to follow through on reforms he promised in the 2005
uprising.


The country has experienced continued instability, including
demonstrations and the killings of three members of parliament
since previous president Askar Akayev was ousted in a 2005
uprising.


This ex-Soviet state that borders China and lies lose to
Afghanistan is seen by outside powers as a strategic crossroads.
It hosts separate Russian and US airbases a few kilometres apart.

