

An American citizen has been missing in southern Iran for several
weeks, the US State Department confirmed Monday, amid a report
that the man was a retired FBI agent.


The US national, who has not been identified, was "in Iran on
private business," spokesman Sean McCormack said, adding that
neither his employer nor his family had heard from him for
"several weeks."


He refused to say exactly when the man disappeared, but indicated
the US authorities have been closely monitoring the situation for
some time.


According to a senior State Department official, US authorities
were informed that the man was missing around March 11 but did
not react earlier because they were not sure what the exact
situation was.


The United States on Monday formally requested Iran to
investigate the man's disappearance, passing a message via Swiss
intermediaries, McCormack said.


Washington and Tehran broke off diplomatic ties 27 years ago and
US interests in Iran are conducted via Switzerland.


McCormack stressed that Washington saw no connection between the
man's disappearance and the affair of 15 British naval personnel
seized by Iran on March 23 allegedly for trespassing into Iranian
waters.


The man is believed to be middle-aged, and was on Kish Island a
free-trade zone off the southern Iranian coast, he added.


But a report in the online edition of the Washington Post said
the man was a retired agent for the Federal Bureau of
Investigations (FBI) who disappeared on March 8 while researching
a book and a documentary on Kish.


"We don't know where he is. We have no reliable information on
him," a senior official told the Post. "I would not characterize
him as a hostage."


Another US official said the missing man was involved in an
"innocuous" project which "had no connection with anything
political.


"The guy was on a perfectly harmless private activity," he told
the Post.


The White House said it was not unusual for an American to go
missing in Iran, but that the State Department was seeking "as
much information as possible."


"It's not completely a unique scenario to have an American
citizen go missing there and possibly need consular support,"
White House deputy press secretary Dana Perino told reporters.


The State Department is trying to "find out if he doesn't need
any support or help," Perino said.

