

Russian airline Aeroflot emerged as a surprise candidate on
Monday to buy the Italian government's stake in the loss-making
Italian carrier Alitalia.


The economy ministry said the Russian group, in partnership with
Italian bank Unicredito Italiano, was one of three bidders who
had come forward at the second stage of the privatisation
process.


"Aeroflot holds 95 percent of the consortium and we have the
remaining five percent," Sergio Ermotti, deputy managing director
of the Unicredit group told a news conference.


A second bidding consortium is comprised of Italian bank
Mediobanca, investment fund Texas Pacific Group and privaty
equity group MatlinPatterson.


And the third bidder is AP Holding, which is the holding company
of the owner of Italian airline Air One, Carlo Toto.


The Italian government, which is privatising the troubled
airline, has a 49.9 percent stake in Alitalia and plans to sell
at least 39.9 percent which would then force the buyer to make an
offer for the rest of the company.


Five consortiums had fielded bids at an earlier stage of the
procedure.


Aeroflot, which is 51-percent state-owned, only signalled its
intentions on Monday, its interest having never leaked to the
press which has been rife with rumours and speculation about
possible suitors.


Candidates now have until April 16 to present preliminary offers,
including business plans for the airline.


Shares in Alitalia surged when they resumed trading after the
economy ministry announced details of the consortia, dealers
said.


At the close, Alitalia shares were up 5.3 percent at 0.99 euros
after being suspended earlier in the day, while the SP/Mib index
finished up 0.52 percent at 41,990 points.


"There has always been doubts on the market that valid solutions
to sell the airline could be found, so the news is positive for
the share price" said one dealer noting that there was a lot of
speculative interest in the share.


Another noted that the Unicredito-Aeroflot offer could turn out
to be the "best possible solution" with an Italian financial
partner and a Russian industrial partner.


The second dealer noted that there could be risks of political
interference if Alitalia went into foreign hands.


David Jarach, a professor specialised in air transport at the
Bocconi university in Milan, said that Aeroflot could in the
medium-term link up with Air France and KLM to take over
Alitalia.


Unicredit gave no indication of what price would be paid for the
Alitalia stake.


"That's completely linked to the outcome of the due diligence
process," Ermotti said.


Ermotti also declined to comment on a possible change of Alitalia
management should his consortium win the bid.


Aeroflot and its subsidiaries carry an average of nine million
passengers a year, or one quarter of Russian air travellers. They
control 51 percent of international flights and 12 percent of
national flights, a spokesman said.


It flies to and from 47 countries around the world.

