

The ancient remains of an early modern human found in Beijing
suggests the "Out of Africa" theory of the dispersal of humans
may be more complex than first thought, a study released Monday
said.


The fossilized remains date to 38,000 to 42,000 years ago, making
it the oldest modern human skeleton from eastern Eurasia, and one
of the oldest modern humans from the region, the authors of the
paper said.


The specimen is basically a modern human, but with a few archaic
characteristics in the teeth and hand bone.


The discovery casts further doubt on the longstanding "Out of
Africa" theory which holds that when modern Homo sapiens spread
eastwards from sub-Saharan Africa to Eurasia about 65,000 to
25,000 years ago, they simply replaced the native late archaic
humans, said anthropologist Erik Trinkaus.


"The evidence has been steadily growing for some time with
respect to western Eurasia to show that these modern humans
interbred with local archaic humans as they spread," said
Trinkaus.


"We haven't had good fossil data from eastern Eurasia to indicate
whether the same thing was happening there. But this fossil,
which is the first from China to be securely dated to this time
period, proves that this interbreeding went on there too."


The fossils were recovered from the Tianyuan Cave, Zhoukoudian,
near Beijing, China in 2003.


Researchers say it should yield further clues about the
transition from archaic to modern humans in eastern Eurasia.


"The discovery promises to provide relevant paleontological data
for our understanding of the emergence of modern humans in
eastern Asia," added Trinkaus, a professor of anthropology at
Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.


The study appears in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences and was co-authored by Trinkaus and Hong Shang, a
colleague in the same department at Washington University and a
scholar at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and
Paleoanthropology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.

