

Bird flu is on the decline around the world, the UN food agency
said Monday, while warning that the potentially deadly disease is
still spreading where containment is inadequate.


"There have been fewer cases of the disease this year than last
year at the same time, indicating that there is a reduction in
overall viral load," said the Food and Agriculture Organisation's
top veterinarian Joseph Domenech in a news release.


Outbreaks were recorded in 17 countries as of March 15, 2007,
Domenech said.


Overall last year, a total of 53 countries had outbreaks of H5N1,
which has killed at least 171 people worldwide since its
appearance in 2003.


The FAO statement warned that "Egypt, Indonesia and Nigeria have
not yet been able to contain the disease, effectively making them
reservoirs of the virus for possible introduction to other
countries."


The Rome-based agency added: "Despite substantial progress in
global efforts to bring the deadly H5N1 avian influenza virus
under control, the disease continues to spread to new countries
and to new areas in some countries where containment has not been
successful."


Domenech said in the statement: "The risk of a pandemic will be
with us for the foreseeable future. However, looking on the
positive side, many countries have managed to control the
disease."


Among positive examples are Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam, which
"have been generally successful in containing and controlling the
virus," the FAO said, singling out Turkey for "a highly
successful control campaign."


Surveillance efforts in Indonesia, which has borne the brunt of
the disease with 71 human deaths to date, according to government
figures, are "hampered by the country's large size and geography
with some 17,000 islands," the FAO said.


In addition, Jakarta has a "weak national veterinary service, as
well as insufficient international and national financial and
human resources invested in prevention and control," the
statement said.


Egypt "has faced problems containing the disease for a number of
reasons, including the lack of compensation to help farmers who
lose their poultry to culling," the UN agency said, adding
however that Cairo "is revising its strategic plan" in the fight
against bird flu.


In Nigeria, "authorities have not been in a position to enforce
effective movement control for poultry and poultry products out
of infected areas," the FAO lamented.

