

Detectives leading the Bob Woolmer murder inquiry said Monday
they are studying the possibility that poison was used to
incapacitate the burly Pakistan cricket coach before he was
strangled.


Jamaica police deputy commissioner Mark Shields told AFP
detectives were exploring whether the powerfully-built Woolmer
was drugged before being murdered in his Kingston hotel room.


"I have said from the beginning that if he was manually
strangled, there are certain aspects that don't quite add up,"
Shields said.


"There is a possibility that something was used to incapacitate
Bob that could have enabled somebody to go into his room and kill
him quietly. But I emphasise once more that we are we are keeping
all lines of enquiry open."


Shields's comments followed a report in Britain's Sunday Mirror
that police had received a tip that the cyanide-like poison
aconite had been used to kill Woolmer, who was found dead at the
Pegasus Hotel on March 18.


Aconite causes internal organ failure and forces the victim's
breath to slow until it finally stops. Death is usually by
asphyxiation within 30 minutes, the report said.


Shields would not directly comment on the report, but
acknowledged police had received information about a possible
substance used to knock-out Woolmer.


"In the course of our enquiries we have received information
about possible poisons that may have been used," he said. "But
until we receive the toxicology reports it is pointless to
speculate on what that substance might be."


Woolmer's widow said she was not aware of any claim that her
husband had been poisoned.


"I haven't heard anything," Gill Woolmer told AFP from her home
in Pinelands in Cape Town.


"Everything I know comes from Mark Shields, who said he would
keep me informed of any new developments."


The fact that detectives are still awaiting toxicology reports on
Woolmer over two weeks after his death has led to questions over
whether Jamaica's criminal justice system is capable of handling
such a complex murder inquiry.


Four police officers from Britain's Scotland Yard are due to
arrive in Kingston on Tuesday to review the course of the
investigation.


Shields however insisted that the arrival of the officers should
not be interpreted as an indicator that the local investigation
was floundering.


"This is an entirely standard procedure in any major
investigation," Shields said. "Once you get past the first seven
to 14 days of the inquiry it is normal to retrace your steps and
make sure nothing has been overlooked."


Detectives were continuing to treat the investigation as murder,
Shields said, following press reports in Britain casting doubt on
the pathologists findings which said Woolmer had been "manually
strangled."


Woolmer's murder has triggered a frenzy of speculation about a
possible link to match-fixing in cricket, although detectives
have so far said they have uncovered no evidence of corruption.


The killing of the coach is also the subject of the biggest and
most complex murder investigation in Jamaica's history, with
police revealing they are trying to trace up to 1,000 people as
possible witnesses.


In Lahore on Sunday, Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq led a
contingent of seven players among 400 mourners at the 100-year-
old Sacred Heart Church, while officials lit candles and laid
floral wreaths at a portrait of Woolmer.


Inzamam, accompanied by teammates Salman Butt, Imran Nazir,
Shoaib Malik, Mohammed Asif, Mohammed Hafeez and Kamran Akmal,
said Woolmer was an "excellent coach and above all things was an
excellent human being."

