

The US Supreme Court Monday decided dozens of Guantanamo Bay
prisoners had no right to challenge their detention in federal
court, handing the Bush administration a major victory for its
"war on terror" legal strategy.


Only three of the nine judges on the court said they would be
prepared to examine the case, one short of the number required
for it to be taken up by justices under their rules of procedure.


The petition was filed on behalf of inmates of the Guantanamo
camp in Cuba, who have little prospect of facing formal charges,
a tribunal or a return to their home countries.


The Supreme Court's decision not to hear the case left intact a
ruling by the federal appeals court for the Washington DC Circuit
in February that the inmates had no constitutional right to
challenge their detention before federal courts because they were
not US citizens or on US soil.


That ruling upheld a law passed last year barring designated
"enemy combatants" from challenging their detention in the US
court system.


Justices John Paul Stevens and Anthony Kennedy wrote in a
statement that they had not backed hearing the appeal because
they did not believe the detainees had exhausted all other legal
options.


In a dissent, Justice Stephen Breyer wrote that the petition
should have been allowed.


"I believe these questions deserve this court's immediate
attention," he wrote.


"If petitioners are right about the law, immediate review may
avoid an additional year or more of imprisonment. If they are
wrong, our review is nevertheless appropriate to help establish
constitutional boundaries."


Monday's decision was the latest dramatic legal chapter in a
fiery debate over the treatment of Guantanamo inmates that
brought the "war on terror" into conflict with civil liberties
provisions of the US constitution.


Democratic Senator Christopher Dodd, who is pushing new
legislation that would restore basic rights to detainees said the
Supreme Court decision to decline the appeals was "extremely
regrettable."


"It would have helped restore America's international credibility
with respect to adherence to the rule of law," he said in a
statement.


President George W. Bush has designated hundreds of terror
suspects as "enemy combatants" and the United States has held
them in Guantanamo for years without charge pending appearances
before military tribunals.


The Supreme Court ruled in June 2006 that the tribunals were
illegal because they were not authorized by Congress -- an
omission the then Republican- controlled legislature remedied
with legislation passed four months later.


But the detainees held at the US naval base in Guantanamo, which
currently has around 385 inmates, argued they were not covered by
provisions of the Military Commission Act that barred all
suspects from challenging their detention in civilian courts.


The US government has said it plans to charge around 60 to 80 of
those remaining at the camp, including the alleged mastermind of
the September 11 attacks in 2001, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.


It has said it plans to send a further 80 back home, leaving more
than 200 inmates in legal limbo.


The appeals court ruling rebuffed as "nonsense" the detainees'
contention that the law had a loophole that allowed them to file
so-called habeas corpus petitions that contest detention without
formal charges or proof.


The appeals court also rejected the detainees' right to claim
that the act violated the US constitution that said habeas corpus
could be suspended only in times of rebellion or other
extraordinary circumstances.


In the latest legal action at the Guantanamo camp, Australian Al-
Qaeda volunteer David Hicks was Friday handed a nine-month prison
term to be served in his native country, after pleading guilty to
a terrorism charge and recanting allegations he was abused by US
authorities.

