

Malaria, cholera, malnutrition, heatstroke and pollen allergies
are just a few of the health problems set to worsen because of
global warming, according to a report prepared by UN climate
experts meeting here.


Climate change has already extended the range of mosquitoes and
ticks, helped spread diarrhoeal disease, boosted the length and
location of pollen seasons and pumped up the intensity of
dangerous heatwaves, says the report.


In the coming decades, such problems are likely to amplify and
for many people, hunger and poor nutrition will be added to the
mix, it says.


"Adverse health impacts will be greatest in low-income
countries," says the report. "Those at greater risk include, in
all countries, the urban poor, the elderly and children,
traditional societies, subsistence farmers and coastal
population."


The 1,400-page document is due to be issued on Friday by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the top UN
scientific authority on global warming and its impacts.


It is part of the fourth assessment report by the IPCC since it
was founded in 1988 to inform policymakers about man-made climate
change. The previous report was in 2001.


A final draft of the report points out that human health can be
affected in subtle and sometimes poorly perceptible ways by
climate change.


For instance, if food production is hit by drought or flooding,
that in turn affects nutrition -- or may prompt a rural exodus
that boosts the population of shanty towns, where overcrowding
and communicable disease can be rife.


A study of the heatwave that struck Western Europe in 2003 found
that nearly a third of Switzerland's excess mortality came from
ground-level ozone -- the pollution caused by a reaction between
sunlight and traffic exhausts, which can be dangerous for people
with respiratory or cardiac problems.


In some cases, says the report, climate change may be positive.
In northerly latitudes, winters will become shorter and milder,
easing the risk to poor and elderly people of cold waves.


But overall, the outcome will be "overwhelmingly negative",
hitting most of all poor tropical countries with water stress,
poor sanitation and shaky medical infrastructure.


One study cited in the report projects that the number of people
at risk of hunger in the Sahel country of Mali will roughly
double, from 34 percent today to between 64-72 percent in the
2050s, if nothing is done to help the population adapt to the
threat.


The report puts the spotlight on populations in these areas:


-- COASTAL AND LOW-LYING AREAS: A quarter of the world's six
billion people lives within 100 kilometres (62 miles) distance
and 100 metres (325 feet) elevation of the coastline.


Depending on the levels of carbon pollution in the atmosphere,
these areas are at risk from rising sea levels, more powerful
storms, coastal flooding, damage to fisheries and saltwater
intrusion into freshwater resources.


According to one estimate, nearly five percent of the population
of Bangladesh could face inundation if temperatures rise 2 C (3.8
F), the sea level increases 30 centimetres (12 inches) and
monsoon rainfall rises 18 percent, which are middle-of-the-range
estimates.


This could increase to 57 percent of the population in a computer
model of a high-range 4 C (7.2 F) temperature increase, a 100-cm
(40-inch) rise in sea level and a 33 percent increase in monsoon
precipitation.


-- MOUNTAIN REGIONS: Glaciers are in rapid retreat in the
Himalayas, Greenland, the European Alps, the Andes and East
Africa, causing for some populations the future risk of water
insecurity. Nearly a quarter of China's population, for instance,
lives in western regions where glacial melt provides the main
water source in the dry season.


A warmer climate will enable mosquitoes to live at altitudes that
previously were too cold, while more extreme rainfall will boost
the number of floods and landslides.


-- POLAR REGIONS: Indigenous peoples who comprise roughly 10
percent of the circumpolar population are "particularly
vulnerable" to climate change, both in threats to their habitat
and their lifestyle. Warmer temperatures will increase the range
of disease-bearing wildlife and badly affect traditional
nutrition because of changes in animal migration and
distribution.

