

The White House on Monday objected to House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi's looming visit to Damascus, saying she risked undermining
US-led efforts to isolate Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.


"It sends the wrong message to have high-level US officials going
there to have photo opportunities that Assad then exploits," said
spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters. "We discourage such trips
by high-ranking US officials."


At the US State Department, spokesman Sean McCormack urged Pelosi
to deliver a "strong message to the Syrian government to change
its behavior" and offered to have US diplomats in Damascus help
her congressional delegation.


"We are assisting her congressional delegation as we have others
in Syria. We are ready to attend meetings, if they want us to,
with the delegation," McCormack told reporters.


The United States accuses Syria of fuelling unrest in Lebanon to
undermine the government of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and of
letting foreign fighters slip through its border on their way to
target US-led forces in Iraq.


"We believe that Syria knows exactly what it needs to do," said
Perino.    "We ask that people not go on these trips. But, of
course, at the end of the day, they have to make their own
decisions."


Pelosi, who was expected to arrive in Syria on Tuesday, said
during a stop in Lebanon that her coming visit was "part of our
responsibility for the national security of the United States"


"It is also important to the Iraq Study Group which encourages
such diplomacy and engagement," she said, referring to a blue-
ribbon US commission that last year recommended engaging US foes
Syria and Iran in order to calm war-torn Iraq.


Perino also defended herself from charges that she assailed
Pelosi's planned visit last week on the very day that some of US
President George W. Bush's Republican allies were in Damascus
meeting with Assad.


"We discouraged it (the Republican visit). When I was asked last
week I was only asked about Speaker Pelosi," she said.


Pelosi -- next in line for the presidency behind Vice President
Dick Cheney -- was to meet with Assad on Tuesday, informed
sources said last week.


A US diplomatic source in Damascus said Pelosi, a tough critic of
US President George W. Bush, would arrive in Damascus on Tuesday
and leave the following day.


The top Democrat in the House of Representatives was to tell
Syrian officials that Israel is ready to revive peace talks if
Damascus stops supporting "terrorism," according to an Israeli
government spokesman.


Miri Eisin said Pelosi had asked Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert on Sunday what she could tell Syrian officials following
her visit to Israel.


"It should first of all stop supporting terrorism," Eisin quoted
Olmert as telling the speaker. "We will be happy to talk with it
if it does so."


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000 over the
parties' inability to agree on the Golan Heights, a strategic
plateau that Israel captured from Syria during the 1967 Six Day
War and subsequently annexed.

