

The US Supreme Court Monday decided dozens of Guantanamo Bay
prisoners had no right to challenge their detention in federal
court, handing the Bush administration a major 'war on terror'
legal victory.


Only three of the nine judges on the court said they would be
prepared to examine the case, one short of the number required
for it to be taken up by justices under their rules of procedure.


The petition was filed on behalf of dozens of inmates of the
Guantanamo camp in Cuba, who have little prospect of facing
formal charges, a tribunal or a return to their home countries.


The Supreme Court's decision not to hear the case left intact a
ruling by the federal appeals court for the Washington DC Circuit
in February that the inmates had no consitutional right to
challenge their detention before federal courts because they were
not US citizens or on US soil.


That ruling upheld a law passed last year barring designated
"enemy combatants" from challenging their detention in the US
court system.


Monday's decision was the latest dramatic legal chapter in a
fiery debate over the treatment of Guantanamo inmates that
brought the 'war on terror' into conflict with civil liberties
provisions of the US constitution.


President George W. Bush has designated hundreds of terror
suspects as "enemy combatants" and the United States has held
them in Guantanamo for years without charge pending appearances
before military tribunals.


The Supreme Court ruled in June 2006 that the tribunals were
illegal because they were not authorized by Congress -- an
omission the Republican-controlled legislature remedied with
legislation passed four months later.


But the detainees held at the US naval base in Guantanamo, which
currently has around 385 inmates, argued they were not covered by
provisions of the Military Commission Act that barred all
suspects from challenging their detention in civilian courts.


The US government has said it plans to charge around 60 to 80 of
those remaining at the camp, including the alleged mastermind of
the September 11 attacks in 2001, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.


It has said it plans to send a further 80 back home, leaving more
than 200 inmates in legal limbo, with little propsect of being
tried or sent home.


The appeals court ruling rebuffed as "nonsense" the detainees'
contention that the law had a loophole that allowed them to file
so-called habeas corpus petitions that contest detention without
formal charges or proof.


The appeals court also rejected the detainees' right to claim
that the act violated the US Constitution that said habeas corpus
could be suspended only in times of rebellion or other
extraordinary circumstances.


In the latest legal action at the Guantanamo camp, Australian Al-
Qaeda volunteer David Hicks was Friday handed a nine-month prison
term to be served in his native country, after pleading guilty to
a terrorism charge and recanting allegations he was abused by US
authorities.


In return, Hicks renounced his earlier statements that he
suffered abuse at the hands of US authorities before or after his
arrival at the controversial camp at the US naval base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

