

South Korea's Yang Yong-Eun will make his Masters debut at
Augusta this week thanks to his memorable upset win over Tiger
Woods in China four months ago.


The 35-year-old scored by far the biggest win of his career in
Shanghai at the HSBC Champions trophy finishing two strokes clear
of the world No. 1.


And it was that triumph which hoisted him into the top 50 golfers
in the planet and thus procured the much soughtafter invite to
play in the first of the year's majors.


Far from being awe-struck at the prospect, the Jeju Islander
intends to walk the hallowed turf of Augusta National Golf Club
with every intention of sparkling.


It was by chance that Yang stumbled upon the game as a wide-eyed
19-year-old when a friend offered him work at a driving range
before he went on to master the game, and become one of Asia's
top stars.


Yang's resume includes two Asian Tour victories and four titles
in Japan but the biggest catch of them all was that famous win
over Woods in Shanghai.


Now, with Woods heading into another Masters Tournament as red-
hot favourite once more, Yang knows that if he can tail the world
number one closely, he would be in for a memorable debut.


"I have always wanted to play in the Masters. I've watched it on
TV, it's such a worldwide event and I want to experience it for
myself. I'm looking forward to it," he said in a recent
interview.


After completing high school, Yang, presently ranked 49th in the
world, used the hours at work to learn the game and turned
professional in 1996, five years after picking up a golf club for
the first time.


From teaching students, Yang rose through the ranks on the
domestic Korean circuit, winning rookie of the year honours in
1999.


He then played for three seasons on the Asian Tour with some
measure of success, securing two runner-up finishes, and then
made it big in Japan.


Last year, the powerfully-built Yang made the golfing world sit
up and take notice of his golfing talents when he beat Woods, a
win that will forever be etched in his memory as he searches for
more glory.


"When people see me, they talk about my win. Sometimes, it's good
to be reminded that I won a big event as I often forget about it.
It's good," said Yang, who won three titles in 2006.


"Not everybody, including Tiger, can win every week. Now, I feel
competitive. I know I can do it. I've always felt weird during my
early days when we see invited players coming over to our
tournaments and winning them. So it's good to win a few
ourselves. Now I know I can beat them," said Yang.


He will be joined at Augusta National by more experienced
compatriot KJ Choi, dubbed by many as the Asian most likely to
win a Major.


The highest ranked Asian at world number 23, Choi made his
Masters debut in 2003, finishing tied for 15th where he also
enjoyed a memorable opening two rounds playing alongside golf
legend Jack Nicklaus.


In the following year, Choi, who now plies his trade on the US
PGA Tour where he has won four times, finished third behind Phil
Mickelson and Ernie Els.


In so doing, he forced his way into the record books twice, first
shooting an outward 30 on the second day and then holing an
eagle-two on the 11th in the final round, only the third player
to do so for both feats.


With three top-10s and two other top-20s already on the US PGA
Tour this season, Choi will be confident of pulling off another
strong outing in the Major which he believes offers him the best
chance of winning.

