

Spain's government said Monday that a major crackdown against ETA
that began last week has broken up the last remaining fixed
commando of the Basque separatist group on Spanish soil.


Police have detained 11 people and seized some 170 kilograms (375
pounds) of explosives as well as several weapons in 17 searches
carried out in northern Spain since Wednesday.


The operation -- the biggest since ETA's "permanent ceasefire"
declaration in March last year -- allowed police to dismantle an
ETA commando called Donosti, which carried out 24 attacks between
2004 and 2006.


"The operation was sufficiently wide and intense for us to
believe that this cell has ceased to exist," deputy interior
minister Antonio Camacho told Cadena Ser radio.


Spanish authorities believe ETA, which is responsible for 819
deaths in its 38-year campaign to win independence for the Basque
region, no longer has fixed cells or infrastructure in Spain at
the moment, he added.


During the operation police located an apartment where ETA's
internal newsletter Zutabe was put together as well as the
equipment used to print it.


"This operation has been important for several reasons," Camacho
said.


Police found previous and unreleased editions of the newsletter,
as well as the equipment used to make it, on Saturday at the
apartment in the Basque city of San Sebastian, conservative daily
newspaper ABC reported.


The authorities were surprised because they believed Zutabe,
which is distributed to ETA members and their supporters, was put
together across the border in France, the newspaper said without
citing its sources.


Police also seized white hats similar to those used by ETA
members in their video communiques from the apartment, a
government source told AFP.


"The operation is still open and more arrests are possible,"
Camacho said.


One of the 11 people who were detained as part of the operation
was quickly released while a judge on Monday ordered six others
to be remanded in custody.


Among those remanded in custody was Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez who
is seen as the ringleader of Donosti. He was charged with
membership in a terrorist organization and possession of
explosives amongst other crimes.


He is believed to have monitored the movements of various police
officers and Fernando Savater, a renowned member of the anti-ETA
association Basta Ya.


Camacho also said he did not believe ETA had used its March 2006
ceasefire  -- its third since 1989 -- to rearm, an accusation
sometimes leveled at the government by its critics on the right.


The Spanish government stopped the peace process with ETA in
December after the group broke a nine-month ceasefire with a car
bomb attack at Madrid airport killing two people.


It is unlikely that the Donosti cell played a role in the airport
bombing, which is believed to have been the work of a mobile ETA
cell from France.


Both the European Union and the US State Department consider ETA
to be a terrorist organisation.

