

The diamond industry, accused in the past of being opaque, bared
all on Monday by publishing production figures for the first time
as part of a transparency initiative to counter the "conflict
diamond" trade.


The industry produced 11.5 billion dollars (8.6 billion euros)
worth of rough diamonds in 2005, the last year for which data is
available under the so-called Kimberley certification scheme.


With a 25 percent market share in terms of value, Botswana was
the leading producer, followed by Russia with 22 percent, Canada
with 12 percent, South Africa with 11 percent and Angola with
nine percent.


But in terms of volume measured by carats, Russia was the biggest
producer, ahead of Australia and the Democratic Republic of Congo
both with 19 percent, followed by Botswana with 18 percent and
South Africa with nine percent.


The European Union was the biggest destination for rough diamond
imports, taking in 39 percent of the total in value terms. Most
were on their way to Antwerp for cutting.


The EU was followed by India as the second-biggest rough diamond
importer with 24 percent of the total, followed by Israel with 16
percent, both of which also have big diamond cutting industries.


The European Commission, which currently holds the rotating
presidency of the Kimberley process, said that figures for 2006
would be published later this year.


The effort to bring more transparency to the industry is one of
the main aims of the Kimberley process to prevent illegally
exported "conflict diamonds" being used to buy arms.


Under Kimberley, rough diamonds are sealed in tamper-resistant
containers and required to have forgery-resistant, conflict-free
certificates with unique serial numbers each time they cross an
international border.


"The publication of diamond trade data shows the growing strength
of the Kimberley Process and its commitment to constant
improvement," said EU External Relations Commissioner Benita
Ferrero-Waldner.


"While there was not consensus on this degree of transparency
when the scheme began, all participants now agree to the new
level of openness," she added.


Seventy-one countries have now signed on to Kimberley and agree
to buy and sell only among fellow members. The certificate takes
for granted that the stone in question is a real diamond.


The agreement is named after the diamond-mining city in South
Africa and went into effect January 1 2003.

