

A Chinese home whose owners caused a national sensation by
defying developers in a three-year dispute was demolished on
Monday.


Workmen operating an excavator (backhoe) completely obliterated
the modest brick house, one of China's most recognisable
buildings thanks to widely circulated pictures of it sitting
defiantly in the middle of a massive pit excavated around it.


"The stubborn nail has been removed," a night watchman at the
construction site in the southwestern city of Chongqing told AFP.


Owner Wu Ping, dubbed "Stubborn Nail" by Chinese media for her
part in the dispute, said her husband had safely left the house
before it was torn down after holding a vigil in the structure
and refusing to leave until an agreement was reached.


But Wu refused to confirm state media reports that an agreement
had been reached.


"I can't talk about that now," she said.


When Wu was told the house was gone, she said simply: "Oh well."


A legal battle has raged since she rejected a compensation offer
to move out that was accepted by 280 other homeowners, holding up
a major property development.


She has incessantly accused the government of collusion with the
developer, while refusing to bow to strong-arm tactics to move
her out.


Earlier this year, she filed a lawsuit maintaining that she
cannot be forced to leave and demanded developers build her a new
house in the area.


The lawsuit came after property developers called for a public
hearing on the forced destruction of the property in January,
which Wu failed to attend due to the government's failure to
notify her.


The court had ruled in the developer's favor.


Such disputes are rife in China, often involving illegal land
grabs by real estate companies allegedly in collusion with the
government and Wu's case has generated a lively debate over
property rights protection.


The national parliament passed a landmark law last month that
solidified private property rights, partly to combat such
disputes.


Over the past week, Wu's husband, Yang Wu, refused to leave the
house, hanging out banners to the delight of the local press that
read "the legal private property of citizens cannot be violated,"
echoing wording in the newly passed property law.


Another banner said "the human rights of the citizens shall be
protected," echoing a recent amendment to China's constitution.


The issue has also reflected government policy on property
confiscations that can only be carried out "in the interests of
the people," but are in fact widely done for commercial projects.


"It's just like them to destroy the house in the middle of a
night," said Wang Qi, an onlooker in Chongqing's Yangjiaping
district.


"Both the developer and the owner are at fault on this issue, but
no one can deny that government officials have gotten rich as the
real estate market has developed."

