

Private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. will buy
credit-card and payments processor First Data in a deal worth 29
billion dollars, the groups announced Monday.


The deal, one of the heftiest in the latest wave of private
equity transactions, gives shareholders 34 dollars a share, or a
26 percent premium over Friday's share price.


KKR Member Scott Nuttall said First Data "is at the forefront of
the worldwide trend toward electronic payments," and added, "We
believe that through continued investments in its technology,
people and customer relationships, First Data will build on its
history of innovation and industry leadership."


"We are pleased to reach this agreement with one of the world's
largest and most successful private equity firms," First Data
chairman and chief executive Ric Duques said.


"We believe that current market conditions present an exceptional
opportunity to fulfill our commitment to maximize the value of
First Data by delivering an immediate cash premium to our
shareholders."


The company traces its history back to 1969 when the Mid-America
Bankcard Association was formed as a cooperative to handle credit
card transactions.


American Express bought the group in 1980, then spun it off as a
separate firm in 1992.


In 1995, the company merged with First Financial Management Corp.
Western Union became part of First Data as a result of the deal.
Western Union was spun off in 2006.


Since its initial public offering in 1992, First Data has grown
from 1.2 billion dollars in annual revenue to 10.6 billion prior
to the spin-off of Western Union and 7.1 billion afterwards.


Currently, First Data handles electronic payments for 4.9 million
merchants, 1,900 bank card issuers and their customers. It also
operates the STAR Network of automated teller machines.


Its international arm operates across Europe, Middle East and
Africa, Latin America, Canada, Australia and the Asia-Pacific
region.


Financial for the deal will come from Citigroup, Credit Suisse,
Deutsche Bank, HSBC, Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs and Merrill
Lynch.


The buyout, which can be matched within 50 days by another buyer,
would be the fourth largest private equity deal on record. The
wave of deals taking companies private has increased in recent
years as buyers can access cheap credit and in privatizing,
eliminate some scrutiny from stock market regulators.


The biggest deal, announced earlier this year is the KKR-led
consortium with Texas Pacific Group and Goldman Sachs that agreed
to buy Texas utility TXU for 45 billion dollars.


The second largest deal, valued at 39 billion, calls for
Blackstone Group to buy property management group Equity Office
Properties Trust.


The third largest deal announced in 2006 saw Hospital Corporation
of American bought by Bain Capital, KKR and Merrill Lynch for 33
billion dollars, including debt.

