

Australia quick Nathan Bracken believes the new ball may not be
an advantage to fast bowlers at the World Cup.


Pitches in the Caribbean have tended to become slower as matches
progress, making strokeplay more difficult the longer a game goes
on.


And with all fielding restrictions in place for the first 10
overs, Bracken believes that batsmen will look to get their sides
off to a flying start.


World champions Australia have won all five of their matches at
the tournament so far.


But they were given a fright when South Africa openers Graeme
Smith (74) and AB de Villiers (98) shared a stand of 160 in 21
overs as they chased a daunting 378 to win in St Kitts on March
24.


Australia held their nerve and dismissed the Proteas for 294,
Bracken finishing with two for 40 from nine overs.


"It's a lot harder with the new ball than I thought it was going
to be. In the South Africa game, they came at us hard.


"I know there are going to be games where they are going to come
out hard on flat wickets and take us on and we've just got to be
prepared for that.


"The wickets just slow up a little bit and when the ball gets
older and softer, it just doesn't quite come on as well," the
left-armer added.


"So the best time to go is with the new ball. We've seen that
now, we know how to set up for that so we've prepared."


Bracken, 29, was a member of Australia's squad at the 2003 World
Cup but didn't play a game.


However, he has since established himself in the side and is now
playing an important role as a member of an Australia pace trio
featuring leading World Cup wicket-taker Glenn McGrath and
express quick Shaun Tait.


During this tournament Bracken's seven wickets have come at an
average of 18.57 apiece but his real value so far has come from a
miserly economy rate of 3.71 runs per over.


Bracken said he and the rest of the attack are all better off for
the ditching of the rotation policy although he added that it had
played a useful role in the run-up to the World Cup.


"We do understand that it basically keeps us on the paddock and
probably doing that through the summer has allowed us to bring
the bowling lineup we have here without as many injuries as what
some of the other countries have," he said.


"You enjoy it (now) and you start to get used to each wicket, get
into your rhythm."

