

Republican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney has stashed 23
million dollars in his 2008 war chest this year, beating party
rivals Rudolph Giuliani and John McCain in a key early test of
the race for the White House.


The latest stunning multi-million dollar declaration by an Oval
Office hopeful Monday followed a first-quarter 2007 fundraising
deadline, in what is tipped to become the most expensive US
election in history.


So far, Republican and Democratic candidates have reported
pulling in more than 80 million dollars in combined campaign
fundraising for the first three months of the year, smashing the
record of 30.9 million set in the corresponding period of the
2004 campaign.


The running count does not include figures from strong Democratic
challenger Senator Barack Obama, who some experts expect may have
reached 20 million dollars.


Democrat front-runner Hillary Clinton has made the most money so
far in 2007, obliterating individual records by raising 26
million dollars, and pumping another 10 million from her Senate
account into her 2008 treasure trove.


Romney, vying to become America's first Mormon president, raised
20.6 million dollars to be used in the fight for the Republican
nomination and loaned his campaign a further 2.3 million dollars,
aides to the former Massachusetts governor said Monday.


"Governor Romney is winning over voters and supporters because he
is the candidate with the best ideas and the most detailed vision
for leading the country into the future," said his spokesman
Kevin Madden.


Romney's figures outstripped expectations of many analysts.


Giuliani, the former New York mayor who shot to prominence during
the horror of the September 11 attacks in 2001, and who leads
opinion polls on the Republican side, piled 15 million dollars
into his campaign account in the first three months.


"We are thrilled by the response to Mayor Giuliani's optimistic
vision, experienced leadership and proven record of results,"
Giuliani's campaign manager Mike DuHaime said, noting his
candidate had a "late start" in the dash for dollars.


The Republican favorite's war chest now amounted to almost 17
million dollars, including money raised at an event in December,
and the campaign had brought in 10 million dollars in March
alone, DuHaine said.


An aide to former Republican front-runner McCain, who was in Iraq
Monday, said he had raised 12.5 million dollars, and admitted the
campaign was disappointed.


"We had hoped to do better in first quarter fundraising," said
campaign manager Terry Nelson.


But McCain joined Romney and Giuliani in bettering the previous
record for a Republican at this stage of the campaign -- 7.6
million dollars in 1999 -- by then Texas governor George W. Bush.


The huge early fundraising hauls were an indicator of the ultra-
competitive nature of the race, nearly 10 months before the first
ballots are cast in party nominating contests.


The 2008 election is tipped by experts to be the most expensive
presidential poll on record, with some estimates reaching one
billion dollars.


Among other candidates, Democratic candidate John Edwards piled
up 14 million dollars so far this year. Senator Joseph Biden said
he expected to raise around three million dollars and his fellow
Democratic Senator Chris Dodd raised four million, and
transferred another five million from his Senate account.


New Mexico Democratic Governor Bill Richardson reportedly raised
six million dollars.


Previously, the most money ever declared by a candidate after the
first quarter of a year preceding a presidential year was 13.5
million dollars by former Republican senator Phil Gramm, in 1995,
but he quickly faded from the 1996 race.


Gramm's total included 4.8 million dollars transferred from his
Senate account.


For the 2000 race, former vice president Al Gore collected 8.9
million dollars in the first quarter of 1999.


The 2008 election is putting a higher premium on the early cash
grab, as next year could effectively see two national elections
-- a sprint towards nominating contests, many squeezed into
January and February, then a long haul to the Republican-Democrat
head-to-head in November.


Candidates need to bankroll multiple cross-country charter
flights, armies of consultants and early nationwide television
advertising blitzes.

