

Northern Ireland's political leaders carved up power in the
province Monday, allocating ministries in a settlement Britain
hopes will ensure a permanent peace between Protestants and
Catholics.


The four largest parties, two from each community, agreed on how
to share out the 10 ministries in the 108-member Northern Irish
Assembly, due to be restored on May 8, party leaders said.


A power-sharing deal only became possible due to a historic,
last-ditch deal between the two largest parties: the Democratic
Unionists (DUP) -- hardline Protestant conservatives -- and Sinn
Fein, Catholic socialists and the political wing of former
paramilitaries of the Irish Republican Army (IRA).


DUP leader Ian Paisley, an 80-year-old firebrand preacher, will
take the first minister's post, with Sinn Fein's Martin
McGuinness as his deputy -- a former IRA commander and a
convicted terrorist in the Republic of Ireland.


Arch enemies during the three decades of bloodshed in Northern
Ireland, McGuinness said his first meeting with Paisley "went
very well."


"His attitude, his approach, during the course of the meeting ...
could not have been better," the BBC quoted him as saying.


Based on the March 7 election results, the DUP got four
ministries, Sinn Fein three, the Ulster Unionists (UUP --
moderate Protestant conservatives) two, and the Social Democratic
and Labour Party (SDLP -- Catholic, moderate) one.


The decisions were made based on the internationally-used d'Hondt
system for allocating ministries according to the strength of the
various parties.


At a 40-minute meeting, the DUP obtained the finance, economy,
environment and culture portfolios.


Sinn Fein took the education, regional development and
agriculture ministries.


Sinn Fein's regional development portfolio means they will decide
whether to introduce water rates -- a key issue at the March 7
polls.


The UUP took the health and employment and learning departments,
while the SDLP will be in charge of social development.


"It is clear that all of the parties are determined to restore
the political institutions and to take up the many challenges
that face people in their daily lives," Sinn Fein president Gerry
Adams said.


"It is now our collective responsibility to deliver on services
for the elderly, the vulnerable and the disadvantaged, as well as
developing and delivering programmes of work to rebuild our
infrastructure and economy."

