

Hole-by-hole description of Augusta National Golf Club course,
where the 71st Masters begins on Thursday:


1: Par four, 455 yards: Tee moved back 20 yards to bring hill in
the landing area more into play. Pine trees on left side of a
slight dogleg right. Fairway bunker extensive and tee shots must
be 327 yards to clear. Deceptive green adds to the challenge.


2: Par five, 575 yards: Dogleg left, rarely reachable in two.
Second shots often from sidehill lie and large, deep bunkers
guard the front of the sloped green.


3: Par four, 350 yards: Classic short par-4. Four bunkers guard
left fairway. Green slopes from right to left, with a thin neck
on the left side protected by a bunker.


4: Par three, 240 yards: Long par-3 often made more difficult by
deceptive wind. Two greenside bunkers, front right and along the
left side, protect a green that slopes to the front.


5: Par four, 455 yards: Uphill dogleg left with sloping green. A
tee shot left allows a shorter second shot and brings two fairway
bunkers and harsh rough into play. Green slopes down to the front
with a bunker in back.


6: Par three, 180 yards: Elevated tee to double-tiered green. Pin
position is critical because of the elevation difference.


7: Par four, 450 yards: Tee pushed back last year forces driver
or 3-wood to start. Tight fairway lined by trees. Elevated small
green slopes from back to front, guarded by three bunkers in
front and two in back. Green features tricky back right pin
placement.


8: Par five, 570 yards: A reshaped fairway bunker on the right is
a 305-yard carry on this uphill hole. Mounds and trees make for
trouble left of green. Drive and layup as 2002 lengthening took
decision making out of equation.


9: Par four, 460 yards: Dogleg left with pines guarding the
fairway. Multi- tiered green slopes back to front with bunkers on
the front left that can be taken out of play by tee shots to
right.


10: Par four, 495 yards: Plays downhill with a nasty fairway
bunker. Draw shot is key. Green slopes right to left, with bunker
guarding the right front. Balls hit short, left or long will roll
down the slopes.


11: Par four, 505 yards: Opening hole of the fabled trio called
Amen Corner. A pond guards the green to the left and a bunker is
placed right-center. An accurate tee shot much more vital. Once
wide-open fairway, with a more level landing area, squeezed on
both sides by rough.


12: Par three, 155 yards: Shortest par-3 on the course. Swirling
winds make club selection tricky, while Rae's Creek in front and
three greenside bunkers make it essential to land on the putting
surface.


13: Par five, 510 yards: Accurate tee shot to center of fairway
allows a player to go for the green in two on this dogleg, but
it's more of a gamble since tees moved back in 2003. Tributary to
Rae's Creek flows in front of green, with four bunkers behind the
four-shelved putting surface.


14: Par four, 440 yards: The only hole on course without a
bunker. Green slopes sharply left to right. Few landing areas
where ball will not roll away.


15: Par five, 530 yards: Tees moved back 30 yards this year. Shot
into green must clear the pond in front of the green and avoid
bunker on the right. Site of Gene Sarazen's double-eagle in 1935.


16: Par three, 170 yards: Played entirely over water to green
sloping significantly from right to left and secured by three
bunkers.


17: Par four, 440 yards: Trees protect both sides of fairway,
including the Eisenhower Tree left center of the fairway some 195
yards from the tee. Instead of clearing a hill, many will hit
second shot off upslope. New trees tighten landing area past 300
yards.


18: Par four, 465 yards: Trees left of the fairway bunkers test
golfers with the sand in play for long drivers. Uphill dogleg
protected off the tee by two bunkers at the left elbow. Green
guarded by two bunkers.

