

Standing by an election poster in the Syrian capital on Sunday,
the young woman shrugged: "I'm not going to vote. I don't know
any of the candidates. And I could make up all their slogans
myself."


A resident of Damascus, she did not want to be named but her
dismissive tone echoed that of many others inspecting posters of
some of the country's 2,462 candidates for parliament's 250
seats.


As the first of two days of voting dawned, the few people round
Damascus polling stations appeared more sullen than enthusiastic
-- despite Syria's official television blaring out patriotic
songs and trying to stir voting fervour.


"Why go to vote when we are happy with existing policy?" asked 22
-year-old Mazen, the ironic smile on his lips belying his words.
"We know anyway who is going to carry off the election."


The ruling National Progressive Front (NPF) coalition, headed by
the Baath party, has won every election since it was created in
1973.


In addition, the umbrella National Democratic Rally (NDR) of
opposition parties, which are tolerated but have no legal status,
have urged supporters to boycott the poll.


One Damascene walking past the polling station, and refusing to
be named, had a similar view: "The competing candidates have no
credibility... and the outcome of the vote is already known,
whatever we do."


One academic, in his 60s, pursed his lips when asked if he was
going to vote, and then let out an explosive "No".


"What do you want me to say? None of these candidates represent
me," he said.


Another bemoaned the lack of any programme from the candidates --
a fault which even the official Syrian media had commented on
earlier.


"I don't know their electoral programmes," said Ramadan,
bemusedly scanning the lists of candidates handed out by
supporters, who at some voting stations outnumbered voters.


"Come on, exercise your national right," shouted one militant,
handing out a list of four of the independent candidates for whom
83 seats are reserved. The other 167 are designated for the NPF,
including 131 -- 52 percent of the total -- for the Baath party
itself.


Coloured posters and pictures of candidates adorn the streets of
the capital where young militants try vainly to persuade locals
to vote.


Some respond with "Inshallah" ("If God wants it"), before moving
on.


But there is enthusiasm among at least some residents.


Hiba, a business student, affirms without irony that Syria "is
one of the great democracies in the region."


"We can choose in complete freedom," she said, adding: "It is we
who mandated our president Bashar al-Assad to take all the
decisions in our name."


In contrast, one taxi driver seemed more in tune with the
financial generosity of the candidates than their proposals for
the country.


"I will vote for the one who will give me 500 pounds (10 US
dollars) instead of the 200 pounds being offered by the others,"
he said.

