

Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh vowed on Sunday to knock down
obstacles to foreign investment in his impoverished country,
saying he wanted to emulate the booming Gulf emirate of Dubai.


"The door of investment in Yemen is open to all investors. The
state is keen on eliminating any hindrances to investors,
learning from the experience of the United Arab Emirates (UAE),
especially Dubai," Saleh said at the opening of a two-day
conference on exploring investment opportunities in Yemen.


Some 1,000 investors, half of them from oil-rich Gulf Arab states
and the rest from Yemen, attended the gathering organised by the
Yemeni government and the secretariat of the Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC).


The UAE is a GCC member alongside Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar
and Saudi Arabia.


Dubai, one of seven emirates making up the UAE federation, has
turned in a few years into a regional business and tourism hub
coveted by foreign investors.


The capital Abu Dhabi, which sits on the bulk of the country's
oil resources, is also investing petrodollars in industrial and
touristic projects.


"We are ready to revise investment laws, including the banking
law, taxes, and other (regulations) in light of the observations
of investors with a view to eliminating any obstacles to
investment," Saleh said.


The state General Investment Authority will work on providing
facilities to investors and simplifying business procedures, he
said.


Lands would be made available to investors at attractive prices
provided they start building their projects on them within six
months of purchase, Saleh said.


Foreign investors want Yemen to open up its banking and insurance
sectors and to introduce a more advantageous tax system.


Industry and Commerce Minister Yehia al-Mutawakkel said the
government would outline 100 investment opportunities worth an
estimated eight billion dollars in the energy, minerals, tourism,
infrastructure and other sectors during the conference.


GCC secretary general Abdurrahman al-Attiyah said Gulf leaders
were seeking to assist Yemen's development in order to prepare it
to integrate with the Gulf economies.


The GCC states are Yemen's top trading partner and a major
destination for Yemeni labour, he said.


Attiyah said the success of last November's international donor
conference in London, during which 4.7 billion dollars in aid
were pledged for Yemen up to 2010, shows the benefits of
cooperation between Sanaa and the GCC, which took part in
organising the parley.


The pledges have since gone up to five billion dollars, he added.


The only country in the Arabian peninsula without direct access
to the Gulf and its only republic, Yemen has been knocking at the
GCC's door for more than a decade.


The GCC monarchies, which forged their alliance in 1981, have
been in no hurry to admit the poor country of more than 20
million into their ranks.


However, in December 2001, Yemen finally won GCC approval to join
some of the bloc's councils -- in the fields of education, social
affairs, health and sports.

