

Bangladesh on Sunday issued an arrest warrant for opposition
leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed as a plane arrived to take her arch
rival, the country's last prime minister Khaleda Zia, into exile
in Saudi Arabia.


But the military-backed government's effort to rid the country of
its two former leaders, blamed for years of misrule and rampant
corruption, hit a potential snag with Zia's supporters mounting a
legal challenge they said could delay her departure.


A lawyer for Zia's supporters said the High Court had asked the
government to explain within five days why she was under house
arrest, adding that this could keep her in the emergency-ruled
country.


At least 200 journalists have been camped out at Dhaka's main
international airport from late Saturday as rumours of Khaleda
Zia's imminent exit from Bangladeshi politics swept the city.


Defiant opposition Awami League leader Sheikh Hasina, who has
been barred  from returning from holiday, has also vowed to try
to board a British Airways flight to Dhaka from London.


"She will go to Heathrow and will fly to Dhaka. She will face the
situation at Heathrow if British Airways does not allow her a
boarding pass to Dhaka," Sheikh Hasina's private secretary Abdus
Sobhan Golap told AFP by telephone from London.


"She is ready to face anything at home," he added.


The comments came despite a court order for Sheikh Hasina, also a
former prime minister, to be arrested on murder charges. The
government has told airlines and foreign governments not to allow
her to return.


She is accused of responsibility for killings at Paltan, an area
of the capital in which Awami League activists beat at least four
people to death last October.


Charges were filed against Sheikh Hasina earlier this month while
she was visiting relatives in the United States.


The government wants to exile both Sheikh Hasina and Zia, the
leader of the country's other main political party, as part of a
campaign to clean up Bangladesh's notoriously corrupt and
dysfunctional political system.


Zia's Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) led a coalition
government until last October.


Zia had been due to leave earlier, but the Amar Desh newspaper,
which is owned by her political secretary, said government
representatives met her several times on Saturday.


"During the talks, Khaleda Zia told them that she does not want
to travel on any special plane. It delayed her departure," the
newspaper said, quoting sources close to Zia.


"She was later told to stay ready with her family to board on a
half hour's notice," it added. "She will leave the country for
Saudi Arabia at any moment today (Sunday)."


The government's corruption crackdown has seen the arrest of
scores of prominent figures with links to both parties including
Zia's influential elder son Tareque Rahman.


It has pledged to hold elections before the end of 2008 after
completing its anti-graft reforms, designed to prevent a repeat
of the chaos that caused elections scheduled for January to be
cancelled and emergency rule imposed.


Zia is reported to have agreed to go into exile in return for
leniency for both her sons. Her younger son Arafat Rahman was
briefly arrested last week and also faces graft allegations.

