

Jose Mourinho insists there is no chance he will leave Chelsea
after receiving the full support of the club's directors.


Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon on Friday said that Mourinho
would not be sacked despite mounting speculation that Blues owner
Roman Abramovich was looking to replace the Portuguese coach.


Mourinho, speaking after his side's 0-0 draw at Newcastle on
Sunday, confirmed that Chelsea's powerbrokers had made it clear
they want him to stay and he was adamant he has no desire to
leave Stamford Bridge.


"The board spoke with me and they told me they want me to stay,"
he said. "They want to finish all the speculation. I'm speaking
with honest people who I have worked with for almost three years
and I believe what they say.


"They say they are happy with my contribution to the club over
the last three years. They want me to stay and I want very much
to stay, so the story is over and we look forward to our future
today.


"I think the board cannot be everyday in the media saying Jose
stays. They did it once and that was enough for me. We have a
contract. For me it is the end of it. Between us everything is
clear."


Mourinho's relationship with Abramovich has been frosty since
January when the pair fell out over attempts to replace assistant
manager Steve Clarke with Portsmouth's Avram Grant.


It had been reported this week that Abramovich had approached
former Germany manager Jurgen Klinsmann, but he was not
interested in replacing Mourinho, paving the way for a
reconcilliation of sorts between Chelsea's warring factions,
although whether the truce holds remains to be seen.


Mourinho also risked landing himself in trouble with the English
Football Association after raising his suspicion that referees
are deliberately favouring Manchester United over his team.


Chelsea's failure to beat Newcastle meant they blew a chance to
close the gap on Premiership leaders United, but Mourinho
believes his side are fighting against officials as well as Sir
Alex Ferguson's team.


"We are in conditions to fight for the Premiership, even against
new football rules," he said. "One rule is you are not allowed
penalties against Manchester United and another rule is you are
not allowed penalties in favour of Chelsea.


"I can't believe it but you saw the same matches as me during the
week. There should have been penalties for Sheffield United and
Middlesbrough and we should have had a penalty for handball by
Stephen Carr here.


"You speaking about three big decisions that can be costly. What
I feel in this moment is they cannot lose.


"Yesterday there should have been a penalty in the last minute,
so they are forbidden to lose. So I don't know what will happen."

