

Mainz 05 striker Mohamed Zidan helped his side take a step closer
to clawing their way out of the relegation zone as they picked up
a valuable point in Sunday's 2-2 draw at Hamburg.


Zidan unleashed an unstoppable shot past Hamburg goalkeeper Frank
Rost after 12 minutes before Argentinian defender Juan Pablo
Sorin equalised for Hamburg from the penalty spot 11 minutes
later.


After scoring his 12th goal of the season in just 17 games, Zidan
provided the scoring pass for Fabian Gerber's 59th-minute strike
until Hamburg's Jose Paolo Guerrero equalised seven minutes from
time to share the points.


The draw leaves Mainz just two points from escaping the bottom
three with four games left.


In Sunday's other game, Hanover's 1-0 win over bottom-side
Borussia Monchengladbach came thanks to Dutch midfielder Arnold
Jan Bruggink's 32nd minute winner.


The defeat leaves 'Gladbach almost certain to be relegated to the
second division as they are now six points behind second-from-
bottom Mainz with four games left.


On Saturday, VfB Stuttgart inflicted a 2-0 defeat on Bayern
Munich which all but ends the German giants chances of playing in
the Champions League next season.


Bayern are fourth, one place away from a top-three spot which
carries a Champions League place, with only four games left.


Schalke 04 returned to the top of the Bundesliga having lost
pole-position for less than 24 hours - thanks to Werder Bremen's
3-1 win over Alemannia Aachen on Friday night - with a 2-0
victory at Energie Cottbus.


Bayer Leverkusen, who have signed the Bundesliga's top-scorer
Theofanis Gekas for next season, took opponents Nuremberg's
fifth-place - and potential UEFA Cup spot - with a 2-0 home win.


Arminia Bielefeld clawed up one place to 15th and out of the
relegation zone with a superb 3-2 win over VfL Wolfsburg having
come from 2-1 down.


VfL Bochum moved away from the relegation dog-fight thanks to
their 3-0 win over Eintracht Frankfurt, who slipped further down
the table and hover just above the relegation zone.


And Borussia Dortmund boosted their chances of staying up with a
1-0 win at Hertha Berlin, which leaves them in 13th place.

