

Ten young men and a woman, detained over the brutal slaying of
three Protestants in eastern Turkey, appeared in court Sunday to
face possible murder charges, the Anatolia news agency reported.


The 12th suspect, allegedly the leader of the assailants, remains
in hospital with a serious head injury after jumping from the
third-floor office of a Christian publishing house in Malatya,
where two Turks and a German had their throats slit Wednesday.


The murders were the latest attack on minorities in Turkey
following the killings of a Roman Catholic priest last year and
an ethnic Armenian journalist in January.


Police brought the suspects to the Malatya courthouse in armoured
vehicles and stepped up security in the area, Anatolia said.


They were expected to be questioned by a prosecutor and then
appear before a judge, who may either charge and jail them
pending trial, or order their release.


One of the suspects allegedly filmed the murders on his mobile
telephone.


He told the police he was asked to record the grisly scenes by
the alleged leader of the assailants, Emre Gunaydin, 19, who
remains hospitalised, the mass- selling Sabah daily said.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were tied to chairs and tortured for three hours
before being killed as their assailants interrogated them on
their missionary activities.


The Zirve publishing house distributed Bibles and published
Christian literature.


Proselytizing is not banned in Turkey, but is generally
unwelcome.


Four suspects were captured at the crime scene when police raided
the publishing house, alerted by a local Protestant who grew
suspicious when he found the office door locked.


Gunaydin jumped from the window to escape arrest.


Doctors say his condition is improving and he may be fit for
questioning within several days.


Gunaydin had reportedly visited the publishing house several
times and even attended an Easter dinner hosted by the community
in Malatya this month.


The sole woman suspect, detained Saturday, has been identified as
his girlfriend.


Officials have not revealed the details of the remaining six men,
who were detained Thursday and Friday, saying only that all
suspects are aged 19 and 20.


Newspapers said one of them was the son of the mayor of a nearby
town from the ruling Islamist-rooted Justice and Development
Party.


He was detained in Istanbul after police determined he had
telephoned frequently to one of the men captured on the crime
scene, who was a relative.


The police are looking for seven other people, including a
bearded man believed to have fled the publishing house shortly
before police arrived, newspapers said.


Newspapers have speculated that the assailants are believed to
belong to a nationalist-Islamist cell similar to one in the
northern city of Trabzon blamed for the murder of ethnic Armenian
journalist Hrant Dink.


Germany, which holds the rotating presidency of the European
Union that Turkey is seeking to join, has urged Ankara to take
measures to ensure the protection of religious freedom.


The German victim, Tilmann Geske, was buried in Malatya, where he
had lived since 2003.


His wife Suzanna told the Vatan daily Sunday that she and her
three children would continue to live there "until Jesus gives me
a sign to go."

