

Eritrea has pulled out of the east African peacemaking bloc, the
Inter- Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD), illustrating
a regional fallout in the resolution of the escalating conflict
in Somalia.


In a statement posted on the country's official website late
Saturday, the foreign ministry said it had "suspended" its
membership in the Djibouti-based seven-nation body because of its
failure to promote peace and security in the region.


The pullout exposes festering tension between Asmara with its
arch-foe Ethiopia and IGAD over the management of the conflict in
Somalia, where fighting between Ethiopian forces and Islamists
insurgents in Mogadishu has claimed more than 1,000 lives and
displaced hundreds of thousands since January.


"The government of Eritrea was compelled to take the move due to
the fact that a number of repeated and irresponsible resolutions
that undermine regional peace and security have been adopted in
the guise of IGAD," it added.


"As such, the Eritrean government deemed it fit not to be party
to developments that hold one accountable both legally and
morally," the statement added.


IGAD succeeded the Intergovernmental Authority on Drought and
Development that was earlier created in 1986 by six drought-
stricken east African countries to coordinate development in the
region.


In 1996, the regional leaders adopted a resolution that created
IGAD and widened its mandate to include fostering regional
security by creating a mechanism to prevent and resolve disputes.


Eritrea, a small nation on the western banks of the Red Sea,
joined the IGAD soon after its inception in 1993.


The IGAD, comprised of Uganda, Sudan, Kenya, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Eritrea and Somalia, is credited with efforts that ended 21 years
of fighting between the Khartoum government and ex-southern rebel
Sudan People's Liberation Movement.


It also chaired peace talks that resulted in the creation of a
government in Somalia in 2004, although the administration has
failed to exert its control across the country.


But Asmara has been at odds with IGAD since the bloc approved the
deployment of peacekeepers in Somalia to help the Ethiopia-backed
government of President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed.


Last year, the IGAD summit tasked its current chairman Kenyan
President Mwai Kibaki, to oversee the resolution of the border
dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea that forced them to a
devastating war between 1998 and 2000.


But Asmara has rejected the mediation of Kenya, accusing it of
being biased towards Ethiopia and told the east African nation to
stop "meddling."


Eritrea accused Kenya of supporting the invasion of Ethiopian
forces in Somalia and condemned the move.


At an IGAD ministerial meeting in Nairobi earlier this month,
Ethiopia and Eritrea wrangled over the presence of foreign troops
in Somalia, widening the rift between the two impoverished Horn
of Africa nations.


"That government (Kenya) should cease playing the role of a
messenger for the invading forces in the Somali issue," an
Eritrean statement said.


In addition, Asmara has demanded Kenya to secure the release of
three of its nationals -- believed to be journalists with the
state media -- who were allegedly arrested by Kenyan forces
during the war between Ethiopian forces and Somalia Islamists.


The trio were are believed to have ended up in Ethiopian jails.


Eritrea has rejected widespread claims that it was arming the
Somalia Islamists while Addis Ababa has justified its
intervention, saying the Islamists posed a threat after they
declared a holy war on Ethiopia.


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, may fight a
proxy war in Somalia.

