

The violence in Iraq is not the result of a sectarian conflict
but rather due to the actions of Al-Qaeda and its allies, Iraqi
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said on Sunday during a visit to
Egypt.


"Iraq is not witnessing a sectarian war and what is happening is
only the activities by Al-Qaeda" and its allies, he said at a
joint press conference with his Egyptian counterpart on the first
leg pf a regional tour.


Ministers from the five UN Security Council permanent members,
the Group of Eight and Iraq's neighbours are set to meet in
Egypt's Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3-4 to try to
find ways to end Iraq's bloodshed.


The Iraqi prime minister added that thanks to a new security plan
in Baghdad, the violence was largely under control and insurgents
were resorting to car bombs because they did not dare confront
security forces.


For his part, Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif said Iraq had
his country's total support in its quest for peace and stability,
a message emphasised in Maliki's earlier meetings with President
Hosni Mubarak.


"This trip will boost all Iraq's bilateral relations and it is a
clear message confirming Egypt's total support for Iraq, not just
in the security realm but in politics and development as well,"
Nazif said.


After the regional security conference of Iraq's neighbours,
talks will be held on the UN-backed "International Compact", a
framework agreement for foreign donors to contribute to Iraqi
reconstruction and development projects.


According to an Egyptian diplomat, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, the conferences will set out a comprehensive plan for
the next five years on how the international community can
support Iraq's economic recovery.


A permanent secretariat of Iraqi and UN officials will be set up
to oversee the implementation of the initiative presented by the
conference, he added.


Maliki is accompanied by Interior Minister Jawad al-Bolani,
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Rafie al-Issawi and
National Security Advisor Muwaffaq al- Rubaie.


He will go on to Kuwait and Saudi Arabia after Egypt, his office
reported.

