

A Turkish prosecutor called on Sunday for 11 suspects to be
jailed pending trial over the gruesome murder of three Christians
in eastern Turkey, the Anatolia news agency reported.


The prosecutor made the demand after questioning the suspects --
10 young men and a woman -- for about eight hours in Malatya
city, where a German and two Turkish converts to Christianity had
their throats slit Wednesday.


A judge was due to make a ruling later on Sunday.


A 12th suspect, allegedly the leader, remains in hospital with a
serious head injury after jumping from the third-floor office of
the Christian publishing house in Malatya where the victims were
killed, to escape arrest.


Doctors say the condition of the suspect -- named in the press as
Emre Gunaydin, 19 -- is improving and he may be fit for
questioning within several days.


The murders were the latest attack on minorities in Turkey
following the killings of a Roman Catholic priest last year and
an ethnic Armenian journalist in January.


The media have speculated that the assailants belong to a
nationalist Islamist cell similar to one in the northern city of
Trabzon blamed for the murder of ethnic Armenian journalist Hrant
Dink.


Police brought the suspects to the courthouse in armoured
vehicles and stepped up security in the area, Anatolia said.


One of the suspects allegedly filmed the murders on his mobile
telephone.


He told the police he was asked to record the grisly scenes by
Gunaydin, the mass-selling Sabah daily said.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were tied to chairs and tortured for three hours
before being killed as their assailants interrogated them on
their missionary activities.


The Zirve publishing house distributed bibles and published
Christian literature.


Four suspects were captured at the crime scene when police raided
the publishing house, alerted by a local Protestant who grew
suspicious when he found the office door locked.


Gunaydin had reportedly visited the publishing house several
times and even attended an Easter dinner hosted by the community
in Malatya this month.


The sole woman suspect, detained Saturday, has been identified as
his girlfriend.


Officials have not revealed the details of the remaining six men,
who were detained Thursday and Friday, saying only that all
suspects are aged 19 and 20.


Newspapers said one of them was the son of the mayor of a nearby
town from the ruling Islamist-rooted Justice and Development
Party.


The police are looking for seven other people, including a
bearded man believed to have fled the publishing house shortly
before police arrived, newspapers said.


Germany, which holds the rotating presidency of the European
Union that Turkey is seeking to join, has urged Ankara to take
measures to ensure the protection of religious freedom.


The German victim, Tilmann Geske, was buried in Malatya, where he
had lived since 2003.


His wife Suzanna told the Vatan daily Sunday that she and her
three children would continue to live there "until Jesus gives me
a sign to go."

