

Democratic lawmakers are poised this week to send Iraq war
funding legislation to US President George W. Bush, who has vowed
to veto the measure if it includes a withdrawal timetable.


Congressional sources say they expect the final legislation to
reach Bush's desk by the end of the week with language setting a
withdrawal of combat forces in 2008 as a goal -- not a
requirement.


But the outcome of the pitched political battle is far from
clear, because Democrats lack the votes to override Bush's veto
and the White House needs the US Congress to approve new spending
for the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.


Democratic congressional sources say they expect to reconcile
competing Senate and House of Representatives versions of the 100
-billion-dollar measure, and send the compromise version -- which
sets 2008 withdrawal as a goal instead of a deadline -- to Bush
by the end of the week.


But the shift from deadline to goal may not make a difference at
the White House, where spokeswoman Dana Perino says Bush will
veto any legislation that features a timetable or unrelated
"pork-barrel" domestic spending.


The showdown comes after Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
touched off a Washington firestorm last week when he told
reporters "this war is lost."


Democratic lawmakers Sunday steered clear of Reid's comments as
Republicans quickly pounced on his words as hurting US troops and
military morale.


Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer told Fox news that Reid, in
fact, meant only the war "policing a civil war between Shiites
and Sunnis" is lost.


"The war is not lost," he said. "And Harry Reid believes this --
we Democrats believe it -- if we change our mission and focus it
more narrowly on counterterrorism, going after an Al-Qaeda camps
that might arise in Iraq. "So the bottom line is if the war
continues on this path, if we continue to try to police and
settle a civil war that's been going on for hundreds of years in
Iraq, we can't win," he said.


Senator Arlen Specter told Fox Reid's comments were "very
destructive."


But, he added: "Certainly, the war is not being won."


"But for the men and women who are over in Iraq, to have somebody
of Senator Reid's stature say that the war is lost, I think is
just very, very demoralizing and not necessary.


For his part, Democratic Senator Chris Dodd, who has his eyes on
the White House, also denied the war is lost but said, "the
policy's failed."


He told ABC news there could be success in Iraq "if you're
willing to define success as stability, of involvement in the
neighboring countries in the region, of providing some means by
which these warring elements in the country are going to find
some common ground to sit down on.


"I think it's harder for people to come together in some
instances when you're standing between them," he said.


Dodd has called for US troops to begin leaving Iraq in 2008,
saying a deadline would push a political solution.


Recent polls suggests that a little less than half of the US
public agrees with Reid that the war is already lost, with a
sizeable number more saying that the United States can still win,
but probably will not.


A Washington Post/ABC news poll published Monday found that 51
percent of Americans believe the United States will lose, against
35 percent who say it will win. The survey had a margin of error
of three percentage points.


A CNN poll released in mid-March found the public evenly divided,
at 46 percent, saying that the United States cannot win. That
survey also had a three- percentage-point error margin.

