

Leading human rights activists in Russia complained of police
brutality after officers arrested five of their number in the
capital Sunday just before a demonstration, Russian media
reported.


Lev Ponomarev, head of the For Human Rights movement, told the
Interfax news agency that he and his wife together with three
young campaigners had been arrested.


Riot police moved in as they were about to start a tour of the
sites of last weekend's police crackdown on a protest by The
Other Russia, a coalition of opposition groups, Ponomarev told
Echo of Moscow radio.


"A group of special police rudely blocked our way," Ponomarev
told the station.


"They put themselves in front of us without introducing
themselves, without saying what they wanted, they seized us
brutally and pulled us towards a bus," he added.


Veteran activist Lyudmila Alexeyeva told the station: "They were
just walking and they were arrested with brutality and they are
now taking them to the Tverskaya street district station."


Ponomarev and Alexeyeva are both internationally known human
rights activists.


Ponomarev was jailed last September for three days for having
organised an unauthorised demonstration for victims of the 2004
Beslan hostage tragedy, in which 332 people lost their lives,
including 186 children.


Alexeyeva, who was a dissident during the Soviet era and now
heads up the Moscow Helsinki Group, has won international awards
for her human rights campaigning.


A Moscow police spokesman told AFP: "We have no information on
the subject."


Marina Litvinovich, another activist at the scene, told Echo of
Moscow radio the district had been "literally full of police".


"It was a strange walk," she added. "The special police didn't
really know what to do with us because we were walking absolutely
peacefully with chidlren and even dogs."


Litvinovich is an aide to Garry Kasparov, the charismatic former
world chess champion who has become an opposition leader.


Sunday's incident comes a day after the authorities promised an
inquiry into last weekend's police crackdown on demonstrations in
Moscow and St Petersburg by The Other Russia opposition movement,
in which hundreds were arrested.


AFP reporters at the rallies witnessed helmeted riot police
clubbing dozens of protestors. Several journalists were also
beaten.


Kasparov, the leader of the United Civil Front, was among those
detained during last weekend's Moscow protest. He was also
questioned by FSB security service agents Friday.

