

The 10th annual Russian Economic Forum opening here Sunday to
showcase the country's businesses to potential investors will be
clouded this year with a boycott by some top Russian officials.


Leading businessmen including an executive from state-controlled
gas giant Gazprom and an economic adviser to President Vladimir
Putin are among those who have cancelled their attendance at the
11th hour amid rising political tensions between London and
Moscow.


"There won't be any high officials this year at the forum," Jonti
Small, spokesman for event organisers Eventica, confirmed on
Friday.


According to three sources close to the Kremlin quoted Friday by
the Russian newspaper Kommersant, the sudden decision to boycott
the event was "an order from above."


One of the sources said that the move came after a dispute with
the British Foreign Office.


Russian businessman Boris Berezovksky, who was granted political
asylum in Britain in 2003, provoked fury in Moscow last week when
he called for the overthrow of Putin.


Ties between London and Moscow have also been strained since the
assassination by radioactive poisoning of former Russian spy
Alexander Litvinenko in November.


His associates accused Moscow of poisoning Litvinenko because of
his opposition to Putin, a claim rejected by the Kremlin.


Ahead of the Forum's opening, the head of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) called on Russia and the
European Union, of which Britain is a leading member, to iron out
their political and economic differences.


"It is necessary (for them) to engage, to discuss, to treat
political issues, but increasingly there are matters that can be
tackled concerning business matters," Jean Lemierre told AFP.


"Relations between Russia and the European Union have never been
as intense as they are currently, since the end of the Cold War,"
he added.


The EBRD, which since 1991 has helped former Soviet bloc
countries make the transition to market economies, last year
doubled investment in Russia to 1.9 billion euros (2.6 billion
dollars).


Lemierre is scheduled as one of the official speakers at the
forum, which opens late Sunday with an informal gathering of
delegates, and continues with speeches and presentations on
Monday and Tuesday.


The EBRD turned down in January a request from Gazprom for a 400
-million-dollar (294-million-euro) loan.


The loan was for the Sakhalin-2 liquified gas project in eastern
Russia, but after Gazprom became a majority shareholder in the
undertaking, the EBRD said Sakhalin no longer fitted the category
of projects usually financed by the bank.


Gazprom's dramatic entry into the giant Sakhalin-2 energy project
has also raised serious questions about the safety of foreign
investments in Russia, according to analysts.


Many analysts believe that the state mounted a campaign to force
Anglo-Dutch energy giant Royal Dutch Shell to relinquish its grip
on Sakhalin-2, using a series of tough environmental checks as a
negotiating weapon.

