

Voters in the rundown Paris suburb of Argenteuil on Sunday turned
out in high numbers at a gymnasium to cast ballots, hoping the
new president will tackle the problems that led to riots 18
months ago.


Under a warm spring sun, residents of Arab and African origin
queued alongside working-class French to vote in the first round
of an election to pick a successor to Jacques Chirac.


"As you can see, I am not the average European type but I feel
fully French and it's important for me to vote," said Wayba
Kheshiba, 37, who was born in France to Algerian parents.


Like many residents, pushing baby prams, playing football in a
nearby field or strolling along pathways in the middle of grimy
high-rise buildings, Kheshiba sees frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy as
a "change for the worst."


"There are many here who are going to be angry," if Sarkozy wins,
said Kheshiba, who expects a flareup of riots if the rightwinger
wins the two-round election being held Sunday and on May 6.


"France has changed. It is made up of different people and it
should build itself up from all of these differences," said
Kheshiba, who voted for Socialist Segolene Royal, who wants to
become France's first woman president.


Samir, a 40-year-old worker of Turkish origin, also voted for
Royal, saying that as interior minister Sarkozy had introduced
tougher policing methods that had left the suburbs feeling like
they were under siege.


"Madame Royal will bring in more work, more liberty. Under
Sarkozy, people were pushed and pushed, they had no freedom,"
said Samir, who did not want to give his surname.


It was in Argenteuil, located on the northwest edge of Paris,
that Sarkozy called young troublemakers "racaille," or rabble, in
2005. The description turned the former interior minister into an
enemy of the high-immigrant suburbs.


Critics have accused Sarkozy of inflaming tensions in the poor
towns ringing France's major cities that exploded into three
weeks of violence in October and November 2005, France's worst
civilian unrest in decades.


Some 10,000 cars were torched and hundreds of buildings burned
during the riots, and residents say the tensions that erupted
into violence remain latent.


But for Abderrahmane Seghir, 67, who emigrated to France when he
was 22, a Sarkozy presidency is not a source of worry.


"You must respect the laws and respect authority.  For those who
don't, it's a problem," said Seghir, echoing Sarkozy's tough
stance on law and order.


Voting was brisk at the polling stations set up in the gymnasium,
with elections officer Claudine Billiet reporting that 10 percent
of registered voters had already cast ballots by 10 am.


"Look at the queue of voters. I have never seen that," said
Billiet, who pointed to three queues of some 20 to 30 voters
waiting to cast ballots.


Stay-at-home mother Marjorie Capel, 32, holding a baby in her
arms, said she was hoping that "racism, poverty and the problems
of the homeless" be addressed by the new president.


She expressed fears that a vote for far-right leader Jean-Marie
Le Pen, who wants zero immigration, would ignite violence in the
suburbs, but said a victory by Sarkozy would not spell disaster.


Omar Idbelbema voted for centrist Francois Bayrou, the "third
man" in the race, saying he would address the problems of
housing, unemployment and immigration that he said were
underpinning the feeling of exclusion in the suburbs.


"Bayrou can change things," said Idbelbema, 32, whose parents
emigrated from Morroco.


Student Myriam Diedhiou, who at 18 was voting for the first time,
said Sarkozy "had good ideas but he is too aggressive" and voted
instead for Royal.


"For the youth, Sarkozy is an enemy, but for older people who
feel vulnerable, there are many who will vote for him," said
Diedhiou, whose parents emigrated to France from Senegal.


All of the candidates have made a trip to the suburbs a necessary
stop on the campaign trail, but Sarkozy has mostly stayed away
and met with 100 people at a meeting hall in a Paris suburb a
week ago, under close police watch.

