

Michael Owen will not play for England until he has proved his
fitness for Newcastle, according to the club's chairman Freddy
Shepherd.


The 27-year-old is close to making his comeback after 10 months
on the sidelines with a cruciate knee ligament injury suffered
playing for England in the World Cup last year.


But Shepherd is engaged in a battle with the English Football
Association to try and get financial compensation for Owen's
absence.


Shepherd had threatened to get a court injuction to stop Owen
playing for England, but he has now softened his stance and
insists only that the forward must show he is able to withstand
the rigours of Premiership football before embarking on
international duty.


The former Liverpool and Real Madrid striker had hoped to feature
against Chelsea on Sunday, but has put back his return to make
sure he is fully fit.


Writing in Newcastle's programme for their match against Chelsea,
Shepherd said: "Inevitably, media interest has focused on when
Michael will play again, and the question has just as inevitably
arisen as to whether and when he will be able to play for England
in the summer.


"It is not a case of anyone wanting to stop Michael playing for
England, the crucial point is that we have to make sure that when
he does come back, he is perfectly fit and nothing less.


"We cannot afford to take the risk of what happened last season
happening again this time around.


"We have had huge support from the fans on this issue between
ourselves and the FA, but we are merely fighting for what we
believe we are rightfully entitled to.


"Nobody will be happier than me when Michael is back in action
and banging in the goals again.


"But it will only happen when the time is right for both him and
Newcastle United."


Owen believes his lengthy lay-off could eventually help him
become a better player because it will prolong his career.


He told the People newspaper: "I have had 10 months out and had
to grit my teeth and work long hours to get back.


"Lots of people can come back from a cruciate injury, but not
many people come back better from a cruciate injury. I don't
think it has been a blessing in disguise, I know it has.


"I am positive this break has happened for a reason and it will
prolong my career and allow me to play into my mid-30s rather
than my early 30s."


Owen has used his free-time to work on his upper-body strength so
he can add power to a game that was always been based on his
electric pace.


He added: "It's a bit like when a sprinter comes out of the
blocks, the power is generated when the upper and lower body work
together. I now feel as if I have got that extra strength in my
upper body.


"I'm quicker than I have been for the last two of three years and
I can do more. Having speed and agility is good, but strength is
important, too."

