

Heavy shelling rocked the Somali capital on Sunday as fighting
raged for a fifth day between Ethiopian forces and Islamist
insurgents, with scores of bodies rotting in the battle zone.


As rival forces exchanged artillery after a night of sporadic
battles, demolishing buildings in northern and southern
Mogadishu, more residents fled the city, swelling the exodus of
hundreds of thousands since February.


Highlighting the regional fallout over resolving the Somali
conflict, Eritrea pulled out of the east African peacemaking bloc
IGAD, after a disgreement with Ethiopia over fighting in Somalia.


Asmara and Addis Ababa has been trading accusations of fuelling
the conflict.


"We can see Ethiopian tanks firing artillery and mortar shells
towards civilian areas. They are firing indiscriminately and the
mortars are landing everywhere," said Abdulkarim Ali, a resident
of southern Mogadishu's Gupta area.


Ali said at least four people, including a child, were wounded in
the shelling that was heavy around the fortified presidential
palace as well as the bombed- out main Bakara market.


The battles that flared up Wednesday have claimed the lives of at
least 168 civilians and wounded hundreds others, according to
Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation, a local group that
tracks casualty figures.


But residents said the toll could be much higher as many
battlefields are still inaccessible.


An AFP correspondent said mutilated bodies lay rotting in the
killing fields as shooting barred residents from collecting them
for burial in line with Muslim traditions.


"The fighting is going on heavily in this area. Both sides are
using machine guns and anti-aircraft guns and many people are
trapped in their houses," said Mukhtar Mohamed, a resident of
Fagah in northern Mogadishu.


"May Allah save us because He is the only one who knows when this
fighting will end," he said, adding that casualties were
"apparently increasing in this neighbourhood and people are
fleeing."


Four days of fighting earlier this month claimed at least 1,000
lives in clashes that were described as the worst bloodletting
since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


The United Nations says at least 321,000 people have fled
Mogadishu since February. Many are camped under trees and
makeshift hovels in the city's outskirts, without supplies and
where disease outbreaks have been reported.


On Sunday, hundreds of terrified civilians continued filing out
of the blood- soaked capital, as the artillery duels showed no
sign of let up.


Prospects for a ceasefire were shattered last week after the
Ethiopian forces refused to meet elders from Mogadishu's dominant
Hawiye clan until commanders of the insurgency would be present.


But the elders blamed the Ethiopians of planning to fight until
they wipe out the insurgency and create a secure environment for
the embattled government.


President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed has thrown his weight behind the
Ethiopians onslaught, saying the insurgents are being backed by
Al Qaeda and should be stopped.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed transitional
government to oust Islamists from Mogadishu in January. But since
then fighting has steadily grown worse as insurgents and clan
warlords have vowed to wage a guerrilla war to oust foreign
forces.


Eritrea withdrawal from the Inter-Governmental Authority on
Development (IGAD), which supports the deployment of Ethiopian
and African Union troops in Somalia, further complicted the
regional efforts to end the war.


"The government of Eritrea was compelled to take the move due to
the fact that a number of repeated and irresponsible resolutions
that undermine regional peace and security have been adopted in
the guise of IGAD," the Eritrean foreign ministry said in a
statement.


"As such, the Eritrean government deemed it fit not to be party
to developments that hold one accountable both legally and
morally."


African watchers have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea,
still at odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict,
may be fighting a proxy war in Somalia.


Some 1,500 AU peacekeepers from Uganda, who have deployed in the
seaside capital since early March, have been unable to stem the
escalating violence.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the AU plans to deploy to help Yusuf to extend his
tenuous hold on the country.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon has presseed for greater world support for
the peacekeepers but warned that a military solution alone could
be counter-productive. Ban urged external partisan groups to stay
away.

