

Military and civilian authorities Sunday were investigating the
crash of a famed Blue Angels jet at a South Carolina air show
that left one Navy pilot dead and eight people on the ground
injured.


Officials have canceled a Sunday appearance of the marquee
flyers, but said the air show would go on as scheduled.


"The cause of the crash is currently under investigation.
Emergency officials, both military and civilian remain on scene
at the site of the crash at this time," said Captain Sarah
Kansteiner.


"After careful consideration and consulation with local officials
and commanders and with the support of the Blue Angels, the (air
show) will continue as scheduled today," she said.


"However the Blue Angels will not perform. We will begin today's
air show with an appropriate tribute to the fallen pilot that
will include both military and civilian officials."


On Saturday, a pilot with the aerial acrobatics team died when
his fighter jet crashed to the ground during as he entered the
final "Delta formation" with five other jets. The other planes
landly safely.


The local Beaufort Gazette newspaper said the plane appeared to
have struck a tall pine tree and traveled another block before
crashing near a heavily populated area.


The crash scene is closed and only residents are being allowed
near the crash scene. Officials asked residents to refrain from
touching any debris as it is part of the investigation.


William Winn, director of the county emergency management said
most of the damage on the ground was from debris falling on
homes.


"Six had holes in the roof," he said. "But the exact damage we
have not been able to determine and we will do that as part of
our investigation today."


He said, however, that since the crash occured three miles (five
kilometers) from the air field, the crowd at the show was not at
risk.


Witnesses told the Gazette of a sudden explosion as the plane
slammed into the ground.


"Something caught my eye, and all of a sudden I saw a huge, black
explosion," resident Jason Keith told the daily.


"The plane went down, and we watched it for a while and I didn't
see any parachute or anything. If he had been 400 yards (meters)
to his right he would have plowed into the road," he said.


"The other guys were just flying along," he said in reference to
the other five planes in the formation.


Another witness said five of the jets "banked and the sixth made
a sharp turn behind the trees."


"We turned and looked back and just saw the smoke. We couldn't
see anything like flames, we just saw the smoke," Ray Edgemon
told South Carolina television station WLTX.


Based in Pensacola, Florida, the Blue Angels is a US Navy
precision flight team known for its daring aerobatic performances
and its distinctive blue-and-yellow fighter jets.


The squad was the main attraction at the air show held at the
Marine Corps Air Station in Beaufort.

