

A radical Pakistani cleric criticised for running an Islamic
justice system in his mosque said Sunday he was referring to the
government a case of alleged rape of two sisters by a police
agent.


"We have been receiving scores of complaints but we decided to
send this rape case to the government as a test and we hope that
justice will be provided to the victim on priority basis," the
cleric Abdul Rashid Ghazi told a news conference.


"We will be compelled to take action if the government failed to
tackle it urgently."


Ghazi said his brother Abdul Aziz, who is the chief cleric of the
Lal Masjid, or Red Mosque, in Islamabad wanted the case to be
tried in the Islamic court but a decision had been made to avoid
being accused of taking the law into their own hands.


He produced the girls, Salma, 17, and Samina, 16, who had come
with their parents from Jhelum, about 100 kilometres (60 miles)
east of here, saying that they had been repeatedly raped by Azhar
Iqbal.


"A medical report confirmed the rape," he said adding that Samina
was pregnant. "They came to us saying that Iqbal is a highly
influential person, and a police agent."


He has got "fake cases" registered against the family, Ghazi said
adding that the girls' father Mohammad Aslam felt he could not
report the matter to the police and therefore sought justice
through the mosque.


"The girls are with us, they will stay in Jamia Hafsa school till
they get justice," he said. "However police can take them for
interrogation if they want."


Red Mosque and its attached male and female religious schools
have challenged the government of President Pervez Musharraf and
launched Taliban-style morality patrols against music and video
shops.


Aziz this month announced setting up of an Islamic Sharia court
and later the mosque issued a fatwa, or religious decree, against
female Tourism Minister Nilofar Bakhtiar for hugging her
paragliding coach during a trip to France.


Last month male and female students from the mosque's schools
briefly kidnapped two policemen and three women including an
alleged brothel owner.


Military ruler Musharraf's government has said it is continuing
negotiations with the mosque's leaders despite public pressure to
tackle what has been described as "Talibanisation" in the heart
of the capital.

