

The popular Greek holiday island of Santorini is threatened by an
oil slick leaking from a cruise ship that sank near its shores
over two weeks ago, a Greek daily reported on Sunday.


Ethnos daily reported that the oil slick had broken through
floating barriers to spread to a distance of five kilometres
(three miles) from the site of the shipwreck, a bay near the
island port of Fyra.


Santorini's regional governor told the newspaper that the
government had not indicated what it intended to do about the
estimated 450 tonnes of fuel believed to be contained in the
Greek-flagged ship's tanks.


"We know of no plan, which company will handle the operation, the
timetable, nothing," said Dimitris Bailas, prefect of the
Cycladic islands that Santorini is part of. "We have not even
been told what chemicals are on board."


On Saturday, the head of Greenpeace in Greece accused the
government of "criminal" delays.


"Two weeks have gone by, and no decision has been made (to drain
the fuel)," Greenpeace Hellas director Nikos Haralambidis told Ta
Nea daily. "This delay is criminal."


The 143-metre (472-foot) cruise ship, Sea Diamond, sank on April
6 several hours after hitting a reef as it was preparing to dock
at Santorini.


Some 1,600 passengers and crew were safely evacuated, but two
French passengers, a 45-year-old man and his 16-year-old daughter
are still missing.


Santorini is one of Greece's top travel destinations, visited by
hundreds of thousands of tourists every year, and local
authorities have threatened to sue the ship's owners for damage
to the island's economy and environment.


The Sea Diamond's operators, Cyprus-based Louis Hellenic Cruise
Lines, on Sunday took out full-page advertisements in newspapers
to insist they were taking "all necessary clean-up measures."


"We immediately sent the best clean-up company on site, and (the
operation) is proceeding speedily at our own cost," Louis said.
"We are taking every measure to minimise consequences to the
environment.


The Sea Diamond's captain and five officers have been charged
with causing a shipwreck through negligence, breaching
international shipping safety regulations and polluting the
environment.

