

Iran on Sunday rejected Western calls for a suspension of its
sensitive nuclear activities just days ahead of crucial talks on
its atomic drive with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


"Halting uranium enrichment is definitely deleted from the
literature of Iran's nuclear activities," foreign ministry
spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told reporters.


"In our negotiations the halting of this activity has not been on
the table and going back on time is not envisaged," he added.


A suspension of enrichment -- a process that can be used both to
make nuclear fuel and atomic weapons -- has been the key demand
of Western powers and main sticking point for opening
negotiations over the nuclear programme.


The comments come ahead of eagerly awaited talks on Wednesday at
a location that has yet to be confirmed between Solana and Iran's
top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani, in a bid to break the
deadlock in the nuclear standoff.


The pair, who held several rounds of discussions last year which
failed to find a solution to the crisis, last met face-to-face
for informal talks on the sidelines of the Munich security
conference on February 11.


It remains to be seen what result can come out of the new
meeting, given Iran's insistence on enriching uranium and the EU
position that Tehran must freeze the process before full
negotiations can begin.


"Negotiations which start with good intentions will have positive
effects and will lead to consequences which are satisfactory for
both sides," Hosseini said, without elaborating.


"What is most important in this is to confirm and guarantee
Iran's right to use nuclear technology for peaceful purposes
based on international laws," he added.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
against Iran for refusing to halt sensitive atomic activities and
has threatened to take further punitive action if Tehran's
defiance continues.


The United States, which accuses Iran of seeking to make nuclear
weapons, has never ruled out the option of military action to
bring Tehran to heel. Iran insists its nuclear drive is solely
for generating energy.


Hosseini said there had been evidence of a "softer" US stance
towards Tehran, without revealing to which statements he was
referring.


"The American officials including Ms (Secretary of State
Condoleezza) Rice have softened their tone a bit. It is better if
we see a softening of these attitudes in action," he said.


Iran has shown no sign of yielding in the standoff, saying that
its uranium enrichment operations have reached an industrial
level and announcing it wishes to install over 50,000 uranium
enriching centrifuges at a plant in Natanz.


Western observers however have said the extent of Iran's progress
remains unclear and diplomats at the UN nuclear watchdog in
Vienna have said it has installed only 1,300 centrifuges so far.


The prime minister of Iran's arch foe Israel, Ehud Olmert, said
that Tehran was "far from attaining the technology threshhold and
this country is not close to getting it, contrary to statements
by its leadership."


Iran's first nuclear power station is being built with Russian
help in the southern city of Bushehr but its completion has been
delayed repeatedly and the nuclear fuel promised by Moscow has
yet to arrive.


A top Iranian nuclear official, Ahmad Fayaz Bakhsh, is currently
in Moscow for talks aimed at clarifying the situation.


"If the Russians do not abide by their commitment regarding the
start of the nuclear power station, this will bring their
credibility into question," said Hosseini.

