

The main candidates in France's unpredictable presidential
election turned out to vote in the April sunshine Sunday, hopeful
of winning through to the second round run-off.


Rightwing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy cast his vote along with his
wife Cecilia at a polling station in a Paris suburb.


The pair, accompanied by two of Cecilia's daughters, were watched
by a small crowd of onlookers as they arrived on foot at the
polling station in the affluent town of Neuilly-sur-Seine.


His main rival, Socialist Party candidate Segolene Royal, cast
her vote in the small town of Melle, in the western Deux Sevres
region.


Looking relaxed in a grey linen jacket and cream dress, greeted
an enthusiastic crowd, surrounded by some 20 journalists.


Outgoing President Jacques Chirac and his wife Bernadette turned
out to vote at the village of Sarran, in the central Correze
region, where they have their family residence.


Chirac, who announced his retirement last month after 12 years as
France's head of state, took time to greet more than 120 well-
wishers before going into the village hall to cast his vote.


Jean-Marie Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front, voted
in the western Parisian suburb of leader Saint Cloud.


Surrounded by a heavy police presence and the party's own
security team, he posed for photographers before dropping his
ballot in the box.


Anti-globalisation campaigner Jose Bove, voted just a few
kilometres from his farm in the hamlet of Pierrefiche du Larzac,
in the southern region of Aveyron.


Bove, looking relaxed and dressed in a blue shirt and beige
trousers and accompanied by his partner, greeted the 20 or so
villagers and a similar number of journalists before voting. Bove
is one of five fringe candidates on the far left.


Sarkozy is favourite to make it through Sunday's first round to
the run-off vote on May 6.


The socialist Segolene Royal is in second place, according to
opinion polls, with centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and far-
right veteran Jean-Marie Le Pen in third and fourth place.

