

Police on Sunday arrested five people suspected of desecrating
180 graves, a quarter of them Jewish, in northern France, the
third such attack on French cemeteries in as many weeks.


Police were questioning the five who were to be charged later,
the attorney- general's office in the neighbouring regional
capital Rouen said in a statement. The graves were located in the
coastal city of Le Havre.


Earlier on Sunday, two men and a youth confessed to desecrating
the gravestones of French Muslim soldiers in a military cemetery
in Arras in northeastern France on Thursday.


The men, both aged 22, and a 16-year-old admitted carrying out
the attack on Wednesday night for racist reasons, prosecutor
Jean-Pierre Valensi said.


He said their motivation was "somewhat confused, a mix of Nazi
and neo-Nazi and skinhead ideology. One of them said Hitler was
his idol."


The graves of 52 soldiers were daubed on with swastikas and Nazi
slogans like "Heil Hitler" in the ossuary of the Notre Dame de
Lorette cemetery, France's biggest military graveyard, where the
remains of many thousands of soldiers killed in World War I are
buried.


All three have been remanded in custody. The two adults will
appear in court in Arras on Wednesday, where they could face
being jailed for five years and fined 75,000 euros (102,000
dollars). The minor will be dealt with by a juvenile court.


Police are also investigating an attack three weeks ago on a
Jewish cemetery in the northern French city of Lille, which
caused an outcry from political leaders.


President Jacques Chirac led the condemnation of the desecration
of 51 gravestones on April 1. "Many were knocked down, some
broken" in the attack, said Lille prosecutor Philippe Lemaire.


In a message to the president of the Jewish community in Lille,
Chirac said he condemned "this unspeakable and intolerable act"
and expressed his sympathy to the families affected.


"I have asked the government to do everything possible to find
the perpetrators of this infamy so that they are severely
punished," said Chirac.


Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin condemned the "cowardly and
dishonourable" vandalism and expressed his solidarity with the
Jewish community.

