

Celtic were crowned Scottish Premier League champions after a
dramatic injury time free-kick from Shunsuke Nakamura handed them
a 2-1 win away to Kilmarnock on Sunday.


It appeared Gordon Strachan's side would have to wait for their
title celebrations after Colin Nish cancelled out Dutch
international Vennegoor of Hesselink's opener.


But as has been the case so often this season Celtic left it late
to tie up the three points they needed to clinch their second
consecutive SPL title.


Japanese international was the hero of the moment curling another
exquisite free-kick into the corner of the net after the
regulation 90 minutes had been played.


Celtic had opened the scoring in the 23rd minute.


An inswinging corner from Japanese international Nakamura was met
by Vennegoor of Hesselink who nodded the ball past Kilmarnock
goalkeeper Alan Combe.


The goal instigated the start of some early championship winning
celebrations from the large visiting support, seated behind each
goal in the 13,673 crowd, but Killie almost hit back immediately.


James Fowler's deep cross found Leven six-yards from goal but he
headed wastefully wide.


Celtic captain Neil Lennon came close to a rare goal in the 31st
minute with a rasping drive from 25-yards which was deflected
inches over the crossbar.


As the first half drew to a close Steven Pressley almost doubled
Celtic's advantage when he got on the end of a Nakamura corner to
power in a header which Combe did well to block.


Kilmarnock should have went into the break on level terms when
Grant Murray's knockdown put Steven Naismith clear in on goal
only for the striker to shoot straight at Celtic's Polish
goalkeeper Artur Boruc.


At the start of the second half Celtic tried to kill Kilmarnock
hopes quickly and Danish midfielder Thomas Gravesen was unlucky
to see his shot deflected inches over, with Combe beaten.


However, it was the home side who were to grab the second goal of
the game in the 49th minute.


Wales drove in from the right towards the byline before cutting
the ball back to leave Nish with the straight forward task of
ramming the ball low past Boruc from eight-yards.


Kilmarnock could have taken the lead in the 60th minute when
Wales found space on the left to advance in on goal and curl a
right-footed shot just past the post.


A minute later Nakamura forced Combe to save at full-stretch with
a low shot towards the corner of the net from 20-yards.


Celtic's John Kennedy was making his first appearance in their
first team since injuring his knee in a friendly for Scotland in
March 2004 and throughout displayed the mix of aerial ability,
tough tackling and ball control that won him international
recognition.


As the game drew to a close it appeared Celtic would have to
postpone their title celebrations but as has so often been the
case this season they scored a dramatic late winner.


Nakamura was fouled by Wales on the edge of the box to win a
free-kick and set the scene.


As the little free-kick expert has shown so often in the current
campaign he is deadly from these situations and he struck a
perfect curling shot into the far corner of the net which left
Combe rooted to the spot.


The Celtic support erupted as the players ran to them to
celebrate and Strachan sprinted along the touchline to show his
delight at completing his second league title as manager of the
Parkhead club.

