

Police on Sunday arrested five people for desecrating 180 graves,
a quarter of them Jewish, in the third such attack on northern
French cemeteries in as many weeks.


The graves were located in the coastal city of Le Havre, where
police were questioning the five who were to be charged later,
the attorney-general's office in the neighbouring regional
capital Rouen said in a statement.


The graves were "very badly damaged", the prosecutor's office
said.


Le Havre Jewish council leader Victor Elgressy, visiting the site
at the Sainte- Marie cemetery together with Le Havre mayor
Antoine Rufenacht, condemned the attack.


"Whatever ideological motives the perpetrators may put forward,
these acts are intolerable and inexcusable", Elgressy told AFP.
"This is one of the most ignoble acts that man can commit against
man."


He said the attackers went for Jewish graves first, painting
black swastikas and Celtic crosses on tombstones, before
desecrating other graves in the cemetery.


Earlier on Sunday, two men and a youth confessed to desecrating
the gravestones of French Muslim soldiers in a military cemetery
in Arras in northeastern France.


The men, both aged 22, and a 16-year-old admitted carrying out
the attack on Wednesday night for racist reasons, prosecutor
Jean-Pierre Valensi said.


He said their motivation was "somewhat confused, a mix of Nazi,
neo-Nazi and skinhead ideology. One of them said Hitler was his
idol."


The graves of 52 soldiers were daubed on with swastikas and Nazi
slogans like "Heil Hitler" in the ossuary of the Notre Dame de
Lorette cemetery, France's biggest military graveyard, where the
remains of many thousands of soldiers killed in World War I are
buried.


All three have been remanded in custody. The two adults will
appear in court in Arras on Wednesday, where they could face
being jailed for five years and fined 75,000 euros (102,000
dollars). The minor will be dealt with by a juvenile court.


Police are also investigating an attack three weeks ago on a
Jewish cemetery in the northern French city of Lille, which
caused an outcry from political leaders.


President Jacques Chirac led the condemnation of the desecration
of 51 gravestones on April 1, calling it an "unspeakable and
intolerable act" and pledging that everything possible would be
done "to find the perpetrators of this infamy."


Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin condemned the "cowardly and
dishonourable" vandalism and expressed his solidarity with the
Jewish community.


There have been some 20 major desecrations of French cemeteries
in the past two decades, with more than half of the attacks
occurring in the last five years.

