

Two bomb blasts killed 11 people in Afghanistan's eastern city of
Khost Sunday, while five Taliban fighters rebels and a policeman
died in a battle elsewhere, officials said.


The deadliest explosion was caused by a suicide bomber, wearing
police uniform and riding a motorcycle, who detonated his
explosives in a busy meat market in Khost, provincial deputy
intelligence director Mira Jan told AFP.


Ten people were killed, all of them civilians, provincial public
health director Gul Mohammad Mohammadi said.


Four died at the scene and six died in hospital, he said adding
that more than 40 were wounded, four of whom were in comas.


Police said however only five people were killed in the blast.


Security forces immediately sealed off the area, said an AFP
reporter behind the cordon. Ambulances and police vehicles
carried away bodies.


Officials had been on the lookout for an attacker since Saturday
after a tip-off that one was in the city, Jan said. At least
three of the dead were shopkeepers, he said.


Hours before the suicide attack, a bomb in a camera exploded in a
shop in a central market in the city, killing one man and
wounding seven, officials said.


Mohammadi, the Khost health director, said wounded victims had
said the blast was linked to a private argument, not the Taliban
insurgency, and had followed a fight between two rival groups
late Saturday.


Police said the cause of the blast was being investigated.


Khost, near the border with Pakistan, has recently been hard-hit
by violence linked to the insurgency as the Taliban have stepped
up the use of Iraq-style suicide bombings and ambushes.


The province is across from Pakistan's tribal North Waziristan
region where a controversial deal last year saw government troops
scale down their presence which critics said allowed pro-Taliban
militants to boost their activity.


In the neighbouring province of Paktia meanwhile, a mob of
Taliban fighters ambushed a police patrol early Sunday, kicking
off a three-hour battle, a government spokesman said.


"Five enemies were killed and their bodies were left at the
battlefield," Din Mohammad Darwaish said. "One policeman was also
martyred and another was wounded."


Seven rockets were also fired at a US-led military base, Camp
Salerno, north of Khost city overnight. There were no casualties
reported.


Violence linked to the Taliban, driven from government in late
2001 by a US-led coalition, has steadily increased in the past
few years.


From just five suicide blasts in the country in 2005 there have
been already more than 30 this year, killing more than 60 people.


There were three times more suicide attacks in January this year
(12) than last, according to a UN report released in March.


The growing Afghan army said however Sunday it was in a better
position to confront the violence.


"Now we have 46,200 soldiers and the number will increase to
64,000 by the end of the year," defence ministry spokesman
Mohammad Zahir Azimi told reporters.


The government had more than five billion dollars for its
development, much of which would be spent on equipping the ground
and air forces, he said.


"On the contrary, the enemy is in a much worse position. They
have lost their hide-outs, last year's operations has also
weakened the enemy.


"The enemy does not have the capacity to fight us, that is why
they resort to roadside bombings or suicide attacks."

