

Israeli Arab MP Azmi Bishara, a virulent critic of Israeli
policies toward the Palestinians who is under a police inquiry,
tendered his resignation from parliament in Cairo Sunday.


"I have decided to resign. According to law, you can tender
resignations either in an embassy or the Knesset," he told the
Al-Jazeera satellite news channel.


The Israeli embassy in Cairo confirmed that the fiery lawmaker
submitted his resignation during a meeting with the ambassador.


"Mr Bishara was here today at the embassy and met Ambassador
Shalom Cohen. He submitted his resignation to the ambassador,"
embassy political advisor and spokesman Benny Sharoni told AFP.


Bishara, who first left Israel in March and has only briefly
returned to his country since, indicated he could yet remain
abroad for some time.


"I presented it to the ambassador without prior notice. The main
problem is that if I present it in the country, I will not come
out for one or two years because of the courts," said Bishara.


"Exile is not an option, return is definite. The question of when
needs some time. I would like to determine the rules of the
game," he said.


"I will see where is the best place in the coming phase for me to
contribute my Arab national, democratic and general work. And
also in our battle internally. I'm still to decide when, but
return is definite," he added.


The 50-year-old entered the Israeli parliament in 1996 and three
years later became the first Arab Israeli to run for prime
minister.


He later joined the National Democratic Assembly, or Balad, which
was formed following the Oslo accords between the Jewish state
and the Palestinians.


"In the end, there will be a return, but when that will be
exactly and in what circumstances, will depend on a number of
people in the Arab world," Bishara told Al-Jazeera.


Bishara has travelled several times to Syria where he met with
President Bashar al-Assad.


Several weeks after Israel and Hezbollah ended their fighting in
Lebanon last August, Bishara and two other Balad MPs carried out
a controversial visit to Syria and Lebanon in defiance of an
Israeli ban on such visits.


Israeli Interior Ministry Roni Bar-On ordered an investigation
against the three for travelling to Syria without requesting a
permit from authorities.


"I've been wanting to resign since September 2006," Bishara said.


"Israel is a full democracy, Azmi Bishara participated in the
Knesset where he was elected, elected officials are allowed to
resign if they wish," Israeli government spokesman Miri Eisin
said.


"Israel will continue to be a full democracy that gives full
civil rights to the Jewish majority as well as to minorities,"
she added.


Bishara has relentless campaigned for the rights of Israel's Arab
community, which accounts for 20 percent of the country's
population and complains of systematic marginalisation.


The Israeli parliament's hawks welcomed the resignation of
Bishara, who was seen as a leader of Israel's handful of Arab
lawmakers.


"It is about time. I welcome this move, three years ago I called
for putting him on trial for betrayal after he attended a
Hezbollah rally in Lebanon where he called for the destruction of
the state of Israel," Likud MP Yuval Stenitz told AFP.


"He is now an escaped fugitive and Israel will have to consider
whether to catch him and bring him to trial," he added.

