

How the 2006-07 Serie A title race unfolded:


SEPTEMBER


After a 3-2 win at Fiorentina on the opening day, Inter drop
points in a disappointing 1-1 home draw against Sampdoria. But
the following week they pick themselves up and strike the first
blow in the championship race.


Hernan Crespo scores the only goal in a 1-0 victory away to title
rivals Roma, the Argentine striker dribbling into the box before
unleashing a fierce shot that goes in off the legs of Roma keeper
Alexander Doni.


Inter make hard work of the three points though, with Zlatan
Ibrahimovic seeing his 59th-minute penalty saved by Alexander
Doni. Inter's French midfielder Patrick Vieira is sent off in
stoppage time for picking up a second yellow card.


Inter show their defensive frailties in their last match of the
month against Chievo, nearly letting a four-goal lead slip in a
4-3 home win.


OCTOBER


Inter draw at Cagliari before fighting back from a goal down to
win 2-1 at home to Catania. Roma surprisingly lose 1-0 at Reggina
to make it a doubly satisfying weekend for the 'Nerazzurri'.


Inter are held to a goalless draw at Udinese in round seven, but
Roma fail to take advantage as they only manage a 1-1 home draw
against Chievo.


Roma drop points again, this time a late Philippe Mexes goal
salvaging a 2-2 draw at home to Ascoli. While Roma's Scudetto
ambitions suffer another body blow, Inter thrash Livorno 4-1, the
first victory in a winning run that will set a new Serie A
record.


The month ends with Inter beating AC Milan 4-3, but they are made
to fight all the way as their city rivals battle back from 3-0
and 4-1 down. A late red card for Inter defender Marco Materazzi
fails to dampen Inter's celebrations.


NOVEMBER


Roma inflict a fourth defeat in five games on AC Milan with a 2-1
win at the San Siro where Francesco Totti scores both goals for
the 2001 champions.


Roma follow that by crushing Catania 7-0, but fail to make ground
on Inter as the reigning champions keep on winning.


Inter finish November in style, winning 2-1 at Palermo whose
impressive start to the season starts to fizzle out.


DECEMBER


Lazio win the Rome derby 3-0 and Roma's misery is compounded by
Inter's win by the same score at Empoli.


Inter follow that by winning at Lazio for the first time since
March 1996, a 2-0 victory clinched by goals from Esteban
Cambiasso and Marco Materazzi, taking their flawless run into
double figures.


In the last round of matches before the winter break, Inter
recover from a goal down to win 2-1 at home to Atalanta. Adriano
ends his nine month goal drought, netting Inter's equaliser in
the 65th minute.


Rodrigo Taddei scores with a spectacular overhead kick as Roma
defeat Cagliari 2-0.


JANUARY


Roma come back sluggish after the festive period as they draw at
struggling Messina and Inter beat Torino 3-1 to set an all-time
record of record of 12 consecutive Serie A wins, overtaking
Roma's record of 11 victories set the previous season.


The historic win also takes them nine points clear at the top of
the table.


Roma captain Francesco Totti scores the equaliser and then gets
himself sent off in a 1-1 draw at Livorno, enabling Inter - 3-1
winners against Fiorentina - to extend their advantage at the
summit to 11 points.


Goals from Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Brazilian wingback Maicon seal
a 2-0 victory for Inter at Samporia, who lose midfielder Gennaro
Del Vecchio to a red card in the seventh minute.


FEBRUARY


Inter's crunch Scudetto showdown against Roma at the San Siro is
postponed as the Italian government suspends all domestic matches
after a policeman is killed when Catania fans go on the rampage.
The match is rescheduled for April 18.


When football resumes with many matches being played behind
closed doors, Inter win 2-0 at Chievo and Roma defeat Parma 3-0.


The following week Roma find themselves 14 points off the pace as
they crash 1-0 at Empoli and Nicolas Burdisso's headed goal sees
Inter edge Cagliari 1-0.


Inter's record 17-match winning streak then comes to an end as
they are held to a 1-1 draw at home to Udinese. Ironically it was
Udinese who were the last team to take points off Inter in a 0-0
draw in October.


MARCH


Inter return to winning ways with a 2-1 win at Livorno before
their interest in the Champions league is ended by an away goals
defeat to Spanish side Valencia.


Inter bounce back in the best possible way, defeating AC Milan
2-1 and completing a league double over their arch rivals.


All eyes are on AC Milan striker Ronaldo, who spent five years at
Inter before walking out on the club to join Real Madrid and is
jeered and whistled by the Inter fans.


Ronaldo scores first, but Inter respond with goals from Julio
Cruz and Zlatan Ibrahimovic.


Inter stretch their lead at the top of the table to a massive 20
points as they beat Parma 2-0 and Roma are held by AC Milan.


APRIL


Roma clip two points off Inter's lead as they win 2-0 at Catania
and Inter are surprisingly held to a goalless draw at Reggina.
Inter then host Palermo and trail 2-0 at half time before goals
from Julio Cruz and Adriano salvage a point for the title-
holders. The same night Roma thump Sampdoria 4-0 to chip further
away at Inter's lead.


Inter face Roma in their rearranged fixture at the San Siro where
a win over their nearest rivals will clinch the championship for
Roberto Mancini's side.


But the champagne is put on ice as Roma end Inter's season-long
unbeaten run with a 3-1 victory.


Inter celebrate four days later as they win 2-1 at Siena - sealed
by two Marco Materazzi goals - and Roma lose by the same score at
Atalanta.

