

Iran launched a fresh nationwide drive aimed at forcing women
whose clothes are deemed too tight and headscarves overly skimpy
to fall in line with its Islamic dress rules, media reported on
Sunday.


Iranian newspapers printed pictures of women in tight and
colourful clothing being given warnings on Tehran's streets by
female police officers dressed in chadors as the crackdown got
underway on Saturday.


Such moves by the police are customary every year as Iran's hot
summer begins, hem lines become shorter and more skin is
revealed. But people have been warned about this year's crackdown
with more prominence than in the past.


According to the Fars news agency, women were initially notified
of their transgression on the street and if they showed
resistance they were then taken to a correctional centre in
Tehran.


Its reporter saw a bus of 15 women arriving at the centre in
central Iran. Their parents were then notified, names and photos
added to a database and they were allowed to leave after signing
a written commitment and changing clothes.


The authorities have argued the "bad hejab (headscarf)" drive is
aimed at encouraging women to dress in line with Islamic dress
code and it appeared the emphasis was more on handing out
warnings than detaining offenders.


Conservatives have applauded the new crackdown as necessary to
preserve public morals as women in Tehran increasingly push the
boundaries over what is permissible to wear in public.


An editorial in the hardline daily Kayhan said that police were
right to ignore the wishes of those who favoured a more softly-
softly approach.


"Do not worry, the people support you (the police). The man whose
sees the robbers of his family's chastity laughing in his face, a
family who despairs over the drug addiction of their child...,
they are with you," it said.


Women in Iran are by law obliged to cover their head with hejab
(Islamic head covering) and a full length overcoat that covers
all bodily contours. Visiting foreigners and religious minorities
are not exempted.


Mohammad Taghi Rahbar, a member of the Iranian parliament's
cultural commission, was quoted in the Etemad newspaper as saying
a harder line towards female dress was long overdue.


"The current situation is shameful for an Islamic government. A
man who sees these models on the streets will pay no attention to
his wife at home, destroying the foundation of the family," he
warned.

