

A US Senate leader insisted Sunday that the White House needed to
allay concerns over the firings of federal prosecutors, saying
beleaguered Attorney General Alberto Gonzales appeared to
remember little about the scandal.


"Someone had to come up with this scheme," Senator Chuck Schumer
told Fox news about last year's sackings of eight prosecutors
which were allegedly politically motivated.


"When Attorney General Gonzales says he doesn't know what's going
on, and his chief of staff, Kyle Sampson, says he doesn't know
what's going on, or at least he didn't compile the list ... the
arrow seems to point at the White House more and more."


Gonzales testifed last week before the Senate Judiciary Committee
to defend his actions as the country's top law enforcement
official and fend off calls for his resignation.


In his highly anticipated testimony, Gonzales tried to explain
that the decision to fire the prosecutors had not been tainted by
an abuse of power, and that he had been scarcely involved in the
process.


"I never sought to mislead or deceive the Congress or the
American people," he said.


But critics said he sought to defend himself by saying he could
not remember the details of the dismissals.


Even Republican Senator Arlen Specter, the ranking Republican on
the committee doubted the attorney general's candor, telling Fox
news that Gonzales's testimony was "very, very damaging to his
own credibility."


"It has been damaging to the administration, because without
answers as to what really happened, there is a lot of
speculation," said Specter.


"And the charges are being made that the Department of Justice
was the political arm of the White House."


Specter declined, however, to call on Gonzales to resign, saying
his future was between him and the president, who also has the
power to appoint and dismiss prosecutors.


Schumer had no such reservations.


"All of America saw why so many of us had felt for so long that
he shouldn't be attorney general," Schumer told Fox news.


"He was not in command of the facts. He contradicted himself. And
he doesn't really appreciate the role of attorney general."


House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi has also urged
Gonzales to step down after President George W. Bush's longtime
aide was grilled by the Senate judiciary panel.


"The nation cannot have a chief law enforcement officer whose
candor and judgment are in serious question," the Democratic
leader said in a statement.


Senator Tom Coburn, an influential Republican, has also joined
the calls for Gonzales to step down, telling the attorney general
at Thursday's hearing that "the best way to put this behind us is
your resignation."


The White House, however, issued a statement after the hearing
saying that Bush was "pleased" with his longtime aide's
performance before the committee.


Bush has "full confidence" in Gonzales, who "again showed that
nothing improper occurred," Bush spokeswoman Dana Perino said.

