

German officials called Sunday for reopening the probe of the
1977 murder of a federal prosecutor after a former leftist
radical stepped forward to say a man serving time was not
involved.


The news weekly Der Spiegel reported in an issue to be published
Monday that it had evidence which allegedly showed that an ex-
member of the Red Army Faction guerrilla group, Stefan
Wisniewski, had shot and killed chief federal prosecutor
Siegfried Buback.


The murder, which was never solved, had long been blamed in part
on fellow RAF radical Christian Klar, who recently lodged a plea
for clemency with President Horst Koehler after more than 24
years in prison.


Klar was arrested in 1982 and jailed for his role in multiple
murders. His sentence stipulates that he will not be eligible for
parole until 2009, unless he is pardoned first.


Buback became the first victim of a bloody era dubbed the "German
Autumn" of 1977 when he was shot in his Mercedes car by a RAF
gunman on a motorcycle in the southwestern city of Karlsruhe.


Der Spiegel reported that former RAF member Verena Becker had
told German authorities in the early 1980s that Wisniewski had
slain Buback, and it quoted another RAF militant, Peter-Juergen
Boock, as now confirming that claim.


They said Klar had merely driven the get-away car.


Wisniewski was released in 1999 after 21 years in prison for
other RAF murders.


Earlier this month, Buback's son Michael gave his support to
Klar's plea for clemency after receiving what he called credible
information from anonymous sources connected to the now-disbanded
group that Klar was not involved in killing.


Michael Buback told the Welt am Sonntag newspaper that he had now
been called as a witness in the case by federal prosecutors. In
Germany murder is not subject to a statute of limitations.


Former interior minister Gerhard Baum of the opposition Free
Democrats led a chorus at the weekend calling for the case to be
reopened, adding that if prosecutors ignored exculpatory evidence
in the 1980s it would be "an oversight that would be difficult to
forgive."


The RAF, also known as the Baader-Meinhof Gang after its founders
Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof, mounted a violent campaign
against what it considered was the oppressive capitalist state of
West Germany from 1977 to 1982.


It targetted the German elite and the US military bases in
Germany and is suspected of killing 34 people. The group
officially disbanded in 1998.


Brigitte Mohnhaupt, who led the RAF with Klar after the group's
original leaders committed suicide in jail, was released from
prison in March after serving 24 years for her role in nine
murders, including Buback's.


Justice authorities said she no longer posed a threat to society.

