

Bayern Munich captain Oliver Kahn criticised the German giants on
Sunday for failing to replace midfielder Michael Ballack, after
he joined Chelsea, as the German giants suffer their worst season
for ten years.


The 37-year-old former German international goalkeeper was left
fuming after VfB Stuttgart's Brazilian striker Cacau scored twice
in Saturday's 2-0 win which leaves Bayern Munich in fourth, five
points away from third place and a guaranteed Champions League
place.


Since the influential Ballack left for Chelsea in May 2006 on a
free transfer when previous coach Felix Magath allowed him to
leave, Bayern have struggled to find a replacement with the same
versatile skills.


"To say that without Michael Ballack, Bayern was going to play
well and be more unpredictable, was stupid," said Kahn in an
interview on German television.


But Kahn, who won 86 caps for his country and is in his last
season with the German giants, says he will not retire early,
even if Bayern miss out on a Champions League place.


"I am not going to drop the club and I am going to honour my
contract," he said.


But his coach Ottmar Hitzfeld insists his side have lacked a
winner's mentality this season after their weekend defeat leaves
them in serious danger of missing out on a Champions League
place.


If, from Bayern's perspective, the unthinkable happens and Munich
miss out on a Champions League place it will be the first time in
11 years the German giants have failed to win a place in Europe's
premier club tournament.


"The winner's mentality which Bayern Munich has always been
famous for has been missing this season," said Hitzfeld.


"The players were too worried about making mistakes and were too
afraid of failure, that is very worrying from our point of view.


"I am naturally very disappointed with the whole of the squad,"
said Hitzfeld, who has won the Champions League twice and will
coach the side again next season.


"Stuttgart were very combative and took the game to us, but we
didn't win any of the game's personal battles.


"We had some bad luck, their first goal was almost an own goal,
but even after the break we didn't really put them under any
pressure."


"We weren't able to penetrate their defence and there was a lot
of uncertainty in the way we defended, when you play as badly as
that, you deserve to lose."


Hamburg's Dutch midfielder Rafael van der Vaart and Werder
Bremen's German striker Miroslav Klose are just two of the high-
profile signings Hitzfeld has planned, but without the promise of
Champions League football, their summer recruitment could be
hampered.


But Hitzfeld says his side must recapture the winning edge and
will fight to the end for a third or higher finishing place to
win their Champions League berth.


"It looks as though Champions League qualification is out of
reach for us, but I believe we've still got a chance. We won't
give up," said Hitzfeld.


"We will be strengthening the squad during the summer."

