

Romania's suspended president Traian Basescu on Sunday told
thousands of supporters gathered on Constitution Square in the
centre of Bucharest to vote against a referendum to impeach him.


"The only answer to the referendum is no," Basescu told the
thousands of protesters of all ages who had been chanting his
name for two hours.


The protesters, including some who had traveled to the capital by
bus from other provinces, chanted Basescu's name and carried
placards saying "Basescu is an elected president" and "Down with
the mafia."


Denying that he had made mistakes, Basescu said simply that he
had "angered a group of 322 members of parliament," who on
Thursday supported the move to impeach him for allegedly
violating the constitution.


One hundred and eight deputies voted against the move, while 10
abstained.


Several sources have said the referendum to confirm Basescu's
impeachment, which must be held within a month, would take place
on May 20. Parliament is to set the official date on Monday.


In accordance with the constitution, Social Democrat Nicolae
Vacaroiu has given up his post as head of the senate and will act
as interim president until the referendum.


Two non-governmental organisations called Sunday's demonstration,
but Basescu's opponents, including the Social Democrats who led
the move to impeach him, accused his Democratic Party of
orchestrating it.


Basescu, who remains the country's most popular politician, was
flanked by several close allies. Among them was former justice
minister Monica Macovei, who addressed the crowd, saying: "I
stand with you, we must not let them take away our future."


This was the second protest in support of Basescu since his
suspension was announced on Thursday.


At a first demonstration in central Bucharest shortly after the
announcement, Basescu told thousands of supporters: "We will see
each other at the polls." He did not specify if he meant the
referendum or new presidential elections.


He then announced Friday that he would not resign, as previously
promised, but would leave it to the people to decide whether or
not to impeach him.


The Social Democrats have criticised the protests saying they
were of an "electoral" nature and thus "illegal" before the
campaign is officially launched.


More than 1,000 police officers were on standby at the square to
prevent potential violence.

