

Bright sunshine and high suspense saw voters across France
pouring into polling booths Sunday to take part in a nail-biting
presidential election that kept the country guessing to the last.


By midday, nearly one-third of registered voters had cast their
ballots -- 10 percentage points higher than the same time in 2002
and an indication of the passions surrounding the poll, which
will pass the mantle of French political power to a new
generation.


At the Saint-Charles primary school in Marseille, long queues
formed from early morning for the curtained-off ballot booths in
a room festooned with childrens' drawings.


Some voters in the southern port city had to cool their heels for
more than an hour after the locks on the doors of several polling
stations were found to have been blocked with glue.


Many younger voters in their 20s said they were partially
motivated by the need to prevent a repetition of the 2002
election, when a low turnout helped far- right leader Jean-Marie
Le Pen eliminate the socialist candidate in the first round and
secure a stunning run-off spot against Jacques Chirac.


"I didn't vote in 2002 out of indifference, but then there was
that terrible shock," said Kaoutcher Ben Amor, a 30-year medical
assistant.


"I decided to register and come out today so as to avoid a
similar situation where we would be left with virtually no choice
in the second round," he said.


Other voters also acknowledged being galvanised by the result in
2002, like nurse Brigitte Cuvelliez, 49, who cast her ballot in
the central city of Lyon for the first time since 1988.


Cuvelliez was one of the estimated one-third of French voters
who, despite months of frenzied campaigning, only decided who to
back at the last moment.


"I didn't know who I was going to vote for, but I knew who I
wasn't going to vote for," she said. "I made my decision in the
last couple of days by comparing the candidates' policies, point
by point."


Having reached her decision, however, she remained sceptical what
her vote might achieve.


"Once elected, politicians do just what they want," she said.


In the northern city of Lille, in the red-brick Pasteur primary
school, Nicolas Fouilleron, a 28-year-old medical intern, swung
between a similar mood of "hope for change" and fatalism.


"As with every election, when it's over, nothing happens," he
said.


In the regions around Paris, voters waited patiently for their
chance to participate in what many believed to be the most
important presidential election for decades.


"I'm looking for major social reform, especially given the gap
between rich and poor which is worsening all the time," said
musician Xavier Cocollos, 40, in Suresnes, a suburb west of the
French capital.


Businessman Bruno Labarre, 44, was also looking for change.


"I'm hoping that we can build a new model, a new society on the
back of serious reforms," said Labarre. "The system we have now
is going nowhere."


For the first time in a presidential election, some of the 44.5
million registered French voters cast their ballots on electronic
voting machines -- an innovation that appeared to meet with
general approval.


"I was a bit apprehensive at first," admitted Yvette Lalanne, 70,
in the southwestern city of Toulouse. "But, in fact it's pretty
simple and quick and, I hope, reliable."

