

Rafael Nadal extended his all-time clay winning streak to 67
straight matches on Sunday as he beat Roger Federer 6-4, 6-4 to a
third consecutive title at the Monte Carlo Masters.


The Spanish world number two reinforced his title as king of clay
in one hour 35 minutes, with Federer saving a match point in each
of the last two games.


The Swiss again failed to get past his hottest rival, with Nadal
now standing 7-3 in their series with wins on all five meetings
on clay.


Federer, his coaching guru Tony Roche devoting his attention to
the clay campaign in lieu of the grass where his man excels, was
once again unable to get over the Nadal hurdle.


The Swiss was plagued by 38 unforced errors and failed to come
good on any of his three break points in the opening set.


Nadal, who heads to Barcelona next week to defend a title at
home, split his winners and errors at 19 each, but tellingly
broke Federer twice in eight attempts.


"I'm so happy to win the title for a third straight year," said
the Spaniard, who has not lost on the surface since April, 2005.


"It's unbelievable to do this."


Federer, aiming his season towards the massive task of trying to
unseat Nadal from the Roland Garros crown that he has lifted at
the past two editions, had won his last two meetings with the
youngster - the Wimbledon final and a semi- final at the Masters
Cup in Shanghai last November.


"It's no surprise that Rafa won again, he's had another great
week here on the clay," said Federer, holder of ten Grand Slam
titles.


"Winning this title for three straight years is not easy, but
he's done it."


Nadal becomes only the second man to lift three on the trot in
the principality, following on from Ilie Nastase in 1971-1973.


Federer started out with aggression, trying to keep the points as
short as possible against the explosive Spaniard.


But despite earning three break points in two different games,
the Swiss could not take advantage of his chances. Nadal saved
two in the eighth game for 4-all.


He then caught Federer on the hop, breaking for 5-4 from a
forehand error.


A game later, the Spanish second seed had the lead and Federer
was left wondering after striking 19 unforced errors to lose his
first set of the week.


The second set also went Nadal's way, with his break coming in
the third game on a passing shot.


Federer got out of trouble temporarily as he saved break points
caused by his own double-faults while trailing 2-4, hanging on to
hold.


The Swiss held off Nadal in the ninth game, saving a match point
with a slashing forehand to the corner and staying in touch 4-5.


Nadal put an end to the contest a game later as he served it out
on his third match point after Federer had held off one more
winning chance for the second seed before losing.


The Swiss had been hoping to end Nadal's streak after the
Spaniard stopped a 56-match Federer run on hard courts in the
final of Dubai in March, 2006.


Nadal improved to 22-5 on the season while Federer suffered his
third defeat against 18 wins.

