

Iraqi lawmakers on Sunday rejected the US military's plan to
build concrete walls around Baghdad's dangerous districts as a
method to curb the sectarian bloodshed in the capital.


Since April 10, the US forces have been constructing a five-
kilometre (three- mile) wall made of six-tonne (14,000-pound)
concrete sections around Baghdad's notorious Sunni district of
Adhamiyah.


The wall is designed to prevent Shiite death squads from
launching attacks to drive out the Sunnis from the district, and
to prevent Sunni insurgents from using the pocket as a base for
raids and bombing runs into Shiite areas.


On Saturday, the US military said it plans to construct more such
walls around other flashpoint areas in Baghdad to prevent
sectarian violence that has engulfed the capital.


But Iraqi lawmakers on Sunday strongly opposed the idea.


"Erecting a wall around Adhamiyah is the height of failure and a
bad, faulty step that violates human rights," said Mahmud Othman,
lawmaker from Iraq's Kurdish alliance.


"It's an obvious sign that the policy of US and our government
has failed to keep security."


Othman called for leaders from all the Sunni, Shiite and other
religious and political blocs to reach an agreement to end the
country's bloodshed rather than resorting to such steps.


MP Iyad al-Samarrai of the Islamic Party, a leading Sunni
political party, said: "Will this wall be the last one in
Baghdad?


"Unfortunately, the government and political blocs did not
discuss this project. I am afraid that such measures won't be
supported by political blocs in future."


Nassar al-Rubaie, head of the political bloc loyal to radical
Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, accused the US forces of creating
Iraq's own Berlin Wall.


"Our security problem is not a result of sectarian tension among
Iraqis, but a consequence of foreign influence," Rubaie said.


Another Shiite MP, Sheikh Jalal al-Din al-Sagheer from the ruling
Shiite alliance, was of mixed opinion.


"The idea has pros and cons. It is useful if it succeeds in
preventing interference in Adhamiyah's affairs, but can turn
negative if it violates human rights."


MP Izzat al-Shabander from the secular Iraqi National List of
former premier Iyad Allawi said the plan showed "the inability of
Iraqi authorities and occupation forces to provide acceptable and
successful ways to protect people.


"If they are aiming at securing neighbourhoods this way, then we
might see more such walls in other areas too. Adhamiyah
inhabitants must reject this outright."


In a statement issued on Saturday, US military's Brigadier
General John F. Campbell said the walls did not aim "to divide
the city along sectarian lines.


"The intent is to provide a more secured neighbourhood for people
who live in selected neighbourhoods," he said adding that such
walls would be erected only around violent districts.

