

Israel's finance minister, under investigation by police probing
claims that millions of dollars was embezzled from a labour union
he once headed, took a three-month leave of absence Sunday.


"A short while ago Finance Minister Avraham Hirshson called me
and told me that he requests to suspend himself temporarily from
his office... in view of the ongoing investigation carried out
against him," Olmert told the weekly cabinet meeting.


Olmert said that he had granted the request and that he would
serve as acting finance minister during Hirshson's leave, which
the minister's lawyer had earlier told army radio would last
three months.


The premier sought to give the assurance that the leave of
Hirshson -- the latest top Israeli politician to be embroiled in
a graft scandal -- would have little effect on the economy.


"We will continue to carry out all of our programmes as planned,"
he said. "The economy is currently on the rise and we are
interested in using the fruit of this rise to strengthen the
weaker part of society," he said.


The Tel Aviv TA-25 stock index, which groups the 25 largest
Israeli public companies, did not seem to be affected by the
announcement, opening up 0.80 percent.


Hirshson, of Olmert's centrist Kadima party, has been grilled by
police four times over the past several weeks over suspicions of
involvement in aggravated robbery and fraud, embezzlement,
obstruction of justice and conspiring to commit a crime.


Hirshson has denied the allegations.


In January, police confirmed media reports that a graft probe had
been launched against Hirshson, the latest in a string of Israeli
officials to face corruption charges.


The allegations are part of an investigation into embezzlement of
millions of dollars from the right-wing National Workers
Federation labour body.


Corruption probes and other scandals involving senior Israeli
officials have rocked the Jewish state in the past six months.


Among them have been several graft probes against Olmert and a
looming rape indictment against president Moshe Katsav, who has
since also taken a leave of absence from the largely ceremonial
post.


Meanwhile, police were on Sunday questioning Strategic Affairs
Minister Avigdor Lieberman over an allegedly suspicious transfer
of funds from Cyprus to a business headed by his daughter,
Michal, police sources said.


Several weeks ago, the liberal Haaretz daily reported that the
ML-1 consulting firm headed by Lieberman's daughter received 1.8
million shekels (433,600 dollars, 325,700 euros) within the first
five months of being established in July 2004.


In the past, police have investigated Lieberman over the
financing of the 1999 election campaign, during which his newly-
formed Yisrael Beitenu party (Israel Is Our Home), captured four
seats in the 120-member Knesset.


At the time of that probe, the Maariv newspaper said the lines of
inquiry focused on possible connections between Lieberman and
mafia gangs in eastern Europe. No charges were ever brought.


Lieberman, an immigrant from Moldova, had created his party to
capture the votes from fellow ever-increasing ex-Soviet
immigrants. The party won 11 seats in last year's parliamentary
elections and last November joined Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
coalition.

