

Nicolas Sarkozy, the hyperactive rightwinger seeking to conquer
the French presidency, is recognised as a brilliant orator and
daring breaker of political taboos but struggles to win public
affection.


As he embarks on the most important fortnight of his career ahead
of the May 6 election run-off vote, enemies are portraying him as
a "mad dog" who cannot be trusted with the keys of the Elysee
palace.


The 52-year-old has the urgent task of persuading the public that
he is not just extraordinarily competent -- but ordinarily human.


The son of a Hungarian immigrant and the grandson of a Greek Jew,
Sarkozy admits that he is not an easy person. Driven by ambition
and a constant need to prove himself, he can appear intolerant
and short-tempered.


"For many years I gave myself up entirely to work. I thought that
by dint of hard work nothing would stand in my way," the head of
the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) said in a revealing
recent interview with Philosophie magazine.


"Because I always thought myself illegitimate -- for reasons
linked to my past -- I worked harder than everyone else... In the
end I realised that permanent effort and application was not
enough. I discovered the underlying humanity in me that had been
missing."


In several recent appearances, Sarkozy has told the public he has
"changed" -- an implicit admission that previously there was an
unattractive side to his character -- and friends insist that
behind the cocksure exterior lies a friendly and thoughtful human
being.


"The interesting thing about Nicolas is that his public image is
far worse than reality. The more people get to know him, the more
they like him," said Francois Delabrosse, who manages the former
interior minister's Internet site.


Sarkozy's image is a million miles from that of his erstwhile
mentor -- outgoing president Jacques Chirac -- who despite
criticisms of his political record never lost the French people's
affection. Significantly, while Chirac is known for his love of
beer and good food, Sarkozy is teetotal.


The public retains the perception of a man who is short of
stature, fiercely self-confident, and plain-talking to the point
-- sometimes -- of giving offence.


The famous episode when he described delinquents in the high-
immigration suburbs as "racaille", or "rabble", has become an
internationally recognised instance of his supposed lack of
control, and a justification, for many people, of their hatred of
the man.


Enemies play with the perception of Sarkozy's impulsiveness to
turn it into a defect of sinister proportions.


The news magazine Marianne last week published a special edition
on "the things about Sarkozy you will not see in the media," in
which he is described as an unstable tyrant.


"The man is -- in some manner -- mad. And fragile. And the nature
of his madness is exactly that which in the past has worked as a
kind of fuel for apprentice dictators," the magazine said.


Mazarine Pingeot, daughter of late socialist president Francois
Mitterrand, said that Sarkozy has a "mad dog side," and his
campaign posters are regularly defaced with Hitler moustaches.


Many in France believe that what the country needs is precisely a
tough-minded taboo-breaker to shake off the debilitating
consensus of the last 25 years and impose much-needed reforms.


But many others are fearful of Sarkozy's divisive nature and
susceptible to the widespread graffiti in the Paris metro: "Sarko
= danger."


These are the people he needs urgently to reassure.

