

Two tries from Wasps winger Paul Sackey saw his side come back
from behind to beat Northampton 30-13 in their European Cup semi-
final here on Sunday.


The champions from three years ago will revisit the ground where
they beat Toulouse for the May 20 final with fellow English side
Leicester, who beat Llanelli on Saturday.


However they had to do it the hard way as they were trailing for
most of the first-half as the Saints - who are in danger of being
relegated from the Premiership - rattled them with 13 unanswered
points.


Wasps former England captain Lawrence Dallaglio said that the
difference between the two sides was that his team had managed to
keep hold of the ball.


"The message is to hold onto the ball and you can score tries.


"Saints defended well and came by us.


"We were bashing them up but we lacked a bit of directness early
on.


"However there was no doubt we were going to win.


Northampton got the first try with a brilliant piece of attacking
play.


Piercing deep into Wasps territory thanks to a brilliant run by
Scotland winger Sean Lamont bursting into the line, the ball came
back to Carlos Spencer and the former All Black fly-half waited
his moment before delivering an overhead pass to compatriot Bruce
Reihana on the right wing.


Reihana eased over to touch down and then converted with a
brilliant kick from the touchline.


Spencer got involved in a bit of handbags with former England
captain Lawrence Dallaglio in the ninth minute which had the
referee giving both of the seasoned veterans a stern talking to,
though, Spencer didn't help himself by pushing Dallaglio away in
front of the official.


However, Saints got away with it and instead went 10-0 ahead in
the 13th minute as Reihana landed a penalty and the former All
Black made it 13 -0 before the halfway mark of the first-half.


Wasps looked to have got back right into the match in the 23rd
minute as one of their young Turks Cipriani burst through and
looked certain to score a try but Reihana gave him a push and the
momentum of that saw him touch down but unfortunately on the
touchline and the Saints got away with a kick out from the 22.


Wasps did manage to get on the scoreboard finally in the 27th
minute as Mark van Gisbergen slotted a penalty and Northampton
started to visibly wilt.


Their defence, though, could not hold out for ever and they
conceded a try late in the first-half as Sackey crossed from a
metre out - making no mistake unlike Cipriani - which appeared to
deflate their opponents and put them right back in the game at
13-8.


Van Gisbergen added a second penalty eight minutes into the
second-half to make it 13-11 - it was even worse for Saints as
Ben Lewitt got sinbnned for the offence - and then an inspired
substitution saw replacement James Haskell go over on the hour
mark after the scrum had pushed their opposite counterparts back
onto their try line.


Northampton rarely featured outside their half after that and
Sackey's smart second try after great work by England fullback
Josh Lewsey and Lewitt was fortunate to stay on the pitch as he
deliberately slid into the tryscorer with his knee and left him
dazed.


Referee Alan Lewis opted just to give a penalty at the kick-off
to Wasps.


Sackey heaped praise on Lewsey - whose place in the England
starting line-up is in doubt after he was dropped for the final
Six Nations match with Wales.


"It was a great ball from Josh for the second try.


"At the end we showed our strength and character. Thats (Wasps
ability to challenge for trophies) why I joined the club because
I knew they had a lot of history. To be part of getting them to
the final is great."


Wasps then rubbed salt into the wounds as Lewsey got a deserved
try after a good backline move by his team-mates and van
Gisbergen converted for a 30-13 scoreline.

