

Thousands of Kashmiris chanting pro-Pakistan slogans on Sunday
attended a rally to welcome back a hardline separatist leader who
underwent cancer treatment in Mumbai.


Syed Ali Geelani, 72, heads the hardline faction of the region's
main separatist alliance, the Hurriyat Conference, which supports
union with Pakistan.


The ailing leader had a kidney removed two years ago after
doctors discovered he was suffering from cancer.


Last month the disease was detected in his second kidney, and he
was successfully operated on in Mumbai.


Geelani has opposed talks between moderate separatists and New
Delhi over the fate of the Himalayan state, which is divided by a
heavily militarised ceasefire line between India and Pakistan.


Supporters chanted "long live Geelani" and "Geelani lead us, we
will follow you" as he emerged from Srinagar's high-security
airport.


Geelani was driven straight to a graveyard in Srinagar, where an
estimated 35,000 people had gathered.


"We will take the ongoing struggle to its logical end. We will
not allow any sellout," Geelani told the crowd after offering
prayers for the militants, separatists and civilians buried
there.


"Our ultimate goal is freedom from India," he said, sparking a
flurry of pro- militant slogans.


Federal troops were confined to their bunkers, as is usual to
avoid trouble during major demonstrations in Srinagar.


India and Pakistan began a peace process in January 2004 to
resolve the dispute over Kashmir and have invited moderate
separatists to participate, but not as full partners.


Geelani, however, says any talks should involve India, Pakistan
and the Kashmiris, and should only take place after India
officially acknowledges that its portion of the state is
"disputed."


The massive rally was presented as a victory by Geelani
supporters over Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, the head of moderate
separatists.


"Today's rally is a referendum that people are with us. They want
a straight solution to the Kashmir dispute, and that is freedom
from India," said Masarat Alam, a close aide of Geelani.


Muslim rebels, who launched an anti-Indian insurgency in the
region in 1989, also back Geelani rather than the moderates.

