

Roger Federer heads into private sessions with his coaching guru
Tony Roche determined to crack the clay DNA of Rafael Nadal.


The swashbuckling Spaniard worked his magic again on Sunday with
a 6-4, 6-4 title win over the Swiss to lift a third consecutive
title at the Monte Carlo Masters.


The win was a repeat of last year's success for the two-time
Roland Garros winner over the world number one, owner of ten
Grand Slam titles. Nadal now stands 7-3 against Federer, with
wins in their last five clay outings.


While Nadal carries on this week to defend a title at home in
Barcelona, Federer will work with his Australian mentor in
private.


The pair are hoping that their growing database on the hot-handed
Spaniard will come in handy at the next challenge between the top
pair in Rome starting in a fortnight.


"I feel this match gave me some information, I'm absolutely in
the mix with him on clay, which is how I wanted to feel," said
Federer, 18-3 this season.


"It's always disappointing to lose. I feel like I didn't play
well and still it was close - that's a good thing."


The methodical Federer said he gleaned more tennis intelligence
which he hopes will eventually lead to a win over his rival in a
major clay test.


"It's always good when you have somebody telling you from the
outside," he said of the legendary Roche, concentrating on the
clay season this year instead of grass on behalf of his man.


"I also understand my game very, very well.  I know what I'm
going to have to work on in the next couple of weeks.


"Physically I feel fine.  It was absolutely no problem today."


The Federer-Roche brain trust must rush to complete their dossier
on the flashy Nadal, who extended his record clay-court match run
to 67 on the trot.


"I thought he was playing identical to last year, to be honest,"
said Federer, beaten in four sets by the Spaniard in the 2006
final. "He's got such a solid base in terms of how he plays
because he does it all year around.


"He plays the same way. It doesn't change for him on hard court
or clay.  Even on grass he plays the same way."


Nadal becomes only the second man to lift three on the trot in
the principality, following on from Ilie Nastase in 1971-1973.


"I always expect a very tough match every time when I go on
court," said Nadal. "Especially if you come to the court against
the world number one  it's going to be tough.


"But I was playing with confidence because I was playing my best
tennis this week."

