

Celtic were crowned Scottish Premier League champions after a
dramatic injury time free-kick from Shunsuke Nakamura handed them
a 2-1 win away to Kilmarnock on Sunday.


It appeared Gordon Strachan's side would have to wait for their
title celebrations after Colin Nish cancelled out Dutch
international Vennegoor of Hesselink's opener.


But as has been the case so often this season Celtic left it late
to tie up the three points they needed to clinch their second
consecutive SPL title.


Japanese international Nakamura was the hero of the moment
curling another exquisite free-kick into the corner of the net,
for his 11th goal of the season, after the regulation 90 minutes
had been played.


Strachan was ecstatic at sealing his second title with the club.


"Winning the league this season is even better than first time
round as it's taken so long to come.


"I'm absolutely delighted to have won the SPL twice and I love
being the Celtic manager.


"We played better this week but after Nish's goal I thought it
was going to be another long week.


"I didn't think Naka would score at the free-kick. I just thought
'No, he can't possibly do it again'. He is the best player I have
worked with in terms of his sublime technique and it was a
fantastic goal."


Kilmarnock manager Jim Jefferies congratulated Celtic but thought
his side were unlucky to lose the match.


"Celtic have struggled to cross the finish line in the last few
weeks and they struggled today but any side who win the league
with four games to spare are worthy champions," he said.


"Nakamura has done that to us four or five times before. We know
he has the ability to do that but it's hard to prevent and Alan
Combe didn't see it until it was past him.


"I thought it was cruel on us as it was a good performance."


Celtic had opened the scoring in the 23rd minute.


An inswinging corner from Nakamura was met by Vennegoor of
Hesselink who nodded the ball past Kilmarnock goalkeeper Alan
Combe.


The goal instigated the start of some early championship winning
celebrations from the large visiting support, seated behind each
goal in the 13,673 crowd, but Killie almost hit back immediately.


James Fowler's deep cross found Leven six-yards from goal but he
headed wastefully wide.


However, the home side were not to be denied and in the 49th
minute they were level.


Gary Wales drove in from the right towards the byline before
cutting the ball back to leave Nish with the straightforward task
of ramming the ball low past Celtic's Polish goalkeeper Artur
Boruc from eight-yards.


Another huge positive aspect of Sunday's game for Celtic was the
performance of John Kennedy.


The defender, making his first appearance in the first team since
injuring his knee in a friendly for Scotland in March 2004,
displayed the mix of aerial ability, tough tackling and ball
control that won him international recognition.


As the game drew to a close it appeared Celtic would have to
postpone their title celebrations but once again they scored a
dramatic late winner.


Nakamura was fouled by Wales on the edge of the box to win a
free-kick and set the scene.


As the little free-kick expert has shown so often in the current
campaign he is deadly from these situations and he struck a
perfect curling shot into the far corner of the net which left
Combe rooted to the spot.


The Celtic support erupted as the players ran to them to
celebrate and Strachan sprinted along the touchline to show his
delight at completing his second league title as manager of the
Parkhead club.

