

Japan's ruling and opposition camps split two upper-house by-
elections Sunday, in a test of embattled Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe three months ahead of national polls, according to early
returns.


Teruhiko Mashiko, backed by the main opposition Democratic Party
of Japan (DPJ) and a minor opposition group, appeared certain to
beat a candidate of Abe's ruling coalition and a communist
candidate in rural Fukushima.


But in the remote island chain of Okinawa, a candidate from the
coalition led by Abe's Liberal Democratic Party narrowly beat a
rival from a DPJ-led alliance, public broadcaster NHK said after
10 percent of votes were counted.


Aiko Shimajiri, a 42-year-old former municipal assembly woman,
looked certain to win in Okinawa after collecting 26,987 votes
against 23,660 for an opposition candidate. A third candidate, an
independent, garnered 381 votes.


The by-elections were held along with local elections in most of
Japan's 47 prefectures to elect mayors and chiefs in 77 cities,
96 towns and villages and 13 wards in Tokyo. Seats in about 780
local assemblies were also contested.


The poll results may have set the tone for July's national
elections, in which Abe's ruling coalition, which includes the
Buddhist-backed New Komeito, defends its slim majority in the
House of Councillors, the upper chamber of parliament.


"From Fukushima, we are starting a drive to correct the divide
(between the rich and the poor)," Mashiko, a 59-year-old former
member of the lower house, said in an attack on Abe's economic
policy as he claimed victory.


Public attention was also focused on Nagasaki, where the son-in-
law of slain mayor Iccho Ito ran in his place.


Ito, 61, an avid anti-nuclear campaigner in Nagasaki, died last
Wednesday after he was shot by a gangster while campaigning for
reelection.


The motive of the assassin, Tetsuya Shiroo, linked to Japan's
biggest underworld syndicate, Yamaguchi-gumi, remains unclear but
the crime is widely seen as a personal grudge. Ito's son-in-law,
40, was a Tokyo-based journalist.


The two upper-house seats were vacated by DPJ members.


Abe's long-ruling LDP relies on the help of its smaller partner,
New Komeito, for the coalition's current majority which rose to
134 in the 242-member upper house with Sunday's by-election
result.


Half the chamber will be contested in July and the LDP and New
Komeito would need to win 64 seats to maintain a majority.


The LDP won 49 seats and New Komeito 13 in the last election,
three years ago.


"Demands for a government shake-up may be refuelled" if the LDP-
led coalition lost in both Fukushima and Okinawa, the influential
daily Asahi said before the polls.


On Saturday, the premier campaigned in Naha, Okinawa, where a
massive US military presence has inhibited urban growth.


As the LDP head, he vowed to bring the benefits of the nation's
economic recovery to the fringes and to expand Naha Airport.


Abe vowed to build a "beautiful nation" proud of its history and
more assertive in diplomacy when he took office last September
with a nationalist agenda, including the revision of the post-war
pacifist constitution.


But his approval rating has dipped below 40 percent as he has
failed to address such major economic issues as the troubled
pension system, while some of his government ministers have been
involved in scandals and gaffes.


Although the ruling coalition holds two thirds of the 480 seats
in the all- important House of Representatives, losing control in
the upper chamber could throw national politics into confusion.


In a round of local elections two weeks ago, LDP-linked
candidates won nine of 11 gubernatorial elections. But the number
of LDP seats in prefectural assemblies fell.

