

Title-holders Lyon had to settle for a goalless draw at Auxerre
on Sunday, a day after being crowned French champions for a
record sixth time in a row.


Gerrard Houllier's men lifted the title without even kicking a
ball on Saturday after already having all but mathematically
ensured they would win it despite being held to a 0-0 draw by
Rennes in midweek.


But having spoilt their title celebrations Wednesday, Rennes did
the league leaders a favour by beating Toulouse 3-2 on Saturday,
removing the one remaining obstacle to Lyon's celebrations.


The record for away wins in one season will however have to wait,
as Lyon, who are unbeaten in the last ten matches, seemed to be
suffering from a hangover in Burgundy as they failed to find a
way past a weakened Auxerre who were saved largely thanks to the
single-handed efforts of their goalkeeper Olivier Sorin.


Sorin did well to stop a Juninho free kick after 19 minutes and
two efforts either half of the break from Milan Baros.


There was no let up in the second half with Sorin holding firm
against Hatem Ben Arfa (66) and a Gregory Bettiol shot at goal in
the dying minutes of the game.


Houllier insisted that winning the title without playing took
away none of the gloss.


"This title is confirmation in my mind for what we as good as
achieved with our win over Nancy (last month)," he said.


"We had 65 points (then) and I knew that for our chasers that
would be difficult to match, especially with our goal difference
advantage."


He added: "It's very satisfying. Last year was a five-in-a-row
record, this year it's a European (big leagues) record."


Former Liverpool striker Bruno Cheyrou scored the Rennes winner
with just three minutes to play on Saturday, ending Toulouse's
all but extinct hopes of winning the league.


Toulouse suffered a double blow as they also lost second place -
and direct entry into the Champions League group stages next
season - to Lens who beat Le Mans 2-0 at home.


But if Lyon's being crowned champions has been a fait accompli
for weeks, the race for Europe remains wide open.


Lens found their winning touch again after five matches without a
victory, leapfrogging Toulouse thanks to goals from Eric Carriere
and Seydou Keita.


Marseille, three points behind Toulouse, leaped into a UEFA Cup
qualification place with a 2-1 home win over Troyes, who remain
third from bottom.


But Monaco all but ended Lille's chances of Champions League
football next year with a 3-1 home win.


Meanwhile, a double from Portuguese striker Pauleta lifted Paris
Saint Germain to a 4-0 win over lowly Nantes, a victory which
could prove vital to the Parisians' bid to beat the drop.


PSG now have 38 points and coach Paul Le Guen believes that his
side need 43 points to survive, but the Parisians face a tough
end to the season with ties against Toulouse, Lyon, Nice, Troyes
and Lorient on the cards.


Rockbottom Nantes, however, look set for the second division next
season just six years after they won the last of their domestic
titles.

