

Arab Israeli MP Azmi Bishara, who resigned from parliament on
Sunday amid a police investigation, has for years been a fiery
critic of Israel and a tireless defender of Arab Israeli rights.


With his taste for provocative statements, his Arab nationalist
views and repeated trips to "enemy" states, the 50-year-old
Christian from Nazareth has long been widely admired by fellow
Arab Israelis and detested by Jewish Israelis.


On Sunday he tendered his resignation at the Israeli embassy in
Cairo amid a weeks-long police investigation.


"I have decided to resign," he told the Al-Jazeera satellite news
channel.


Bishara, who first left Israel in March and has only briefly
returned to his country since, indicated he could yet remain
abroad for some time.


"I presented it to the ambassador without prior notice. The main
problem is that if I present it in the country, I will not come
out for one or two years because of the courts," said Bishara.


The exact nature of the police inquiry is unknown, as a court has
placed a gag order on reporting details of the investigation. But
local media have reported that Bishara could face charges ranging
from corruption to treason following an unauthorised trip to
Syria.


Israel and Syria are officially in a state of war and Israeli
citizens are not allowed to visit the country without prior
approval by the authorities.


The mustachioed Bishara, a Christian from Nazareth, has been in
parliament since 1996 -- first on a communist list and then with
the nationalist party Balad -- and is no stranger to controversy.


In November 2001, the Knesset stripped him of parliamentary
immunity, clearing the way for him to be charged with making
anti-Israeli comments and organising trips to Syria by Arab
Israeli constituents without due authorisation.


Five months earlier during a Damascus memorial service for the
late Syrian president Hafez al-Assad, Bishara called for
"expanding the dimensions of the resistance to Israel and
enabling the people to struggle and fight."


He had made similarly fiery remarks during an earlier visit to
Lebanon.


The comments prompted one right-wing Israeli MP to call for him
to be put before a firing squad for inciting violence against the
Jewish state.


The Israeli supreme court eventually threw out all charges
against him in February 2006.


A distinguished debater who speaks Arabic, English, German and
Hebrew, Bishara was the first Arab to put in his candidacy for
Israel's prime ministerial elections, before pulling out at the
last moment in 1999.


He received a PhD in philosophy from Humboldt University in the
former Communist East Berlin. He has taught at Birzeit University
in the occupied West Bank and worked as a researcher at the Van
Leer Human Sciences Institute in Jerusalem.


His Balad party won three parliamentary seats in the March 2006
legislative election. Bishara is married with two children.

