

Voters turned out en-masse Sunday in France's cliff-hanger
presidential election, with rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy and
socialist Segolene Royal predicted to go through to the run-off
ballot.


Pollsters said turnout would be a record, reflecting the
excitement the campaign has sparked and also memories of the 2002
vote when far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen shocked the world by
qualifying for the second round against Jacques Chirac.


The estimated 30 percent of voters still undecided going into
polling day added to the tension surrounding one of the most
unpredictable French elections in decades.


Opinion polls have for months made Sarkozy and Royal the
favourites to reach the runoff vote on May 6 to decide who takes
over from Chirac.


But centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and the anti-immigrant
former paratrooper Le Pen maintained hopes of a second round
spot.


In the face of voter concerns over high unemployment,
globalisation, and seething discontent in high-immigration
suburbs, Sarkozy has pushed a right-wing programme based on the
themes of national identity and getting France back to work.


Critics say his tough talk could divide rather than unite the
nation.


Royal, who aims to become France's first woman president, has
presented herself as a nurturing mother figure and has proposed a
leftist economic programme that maintains France's generous
welfare system intact.


Bayrou, who emerged as a surprise "third man" in the polls, wants
to end the left-right political divide by forming a national
unity government.


All three come from a new generation of politicians, and in a
campaign that has been as much about personalities as policies,
all claimed to represent a break from a discredited past.


Eight other candidates were also running, ranging from a
Trotskyite postman to a hunting party hopeful whose vote-
splitting potential gives them importance in the first round.


Around 44.5 million registered voters -- an increase of 3.4
million on 2002 -- were eligible to choose a successor to Chirac,
74, the Gaullist leader who steps down next month after leading
the country for 12 years.


Three hours before polling closed, 74 percent of voters had cast
first-round ballots, a giant leap from the 2002 vote, officials
said.


Turnout appeared on course to set a record, according to polling
firms IPSOS and IFOP, who predicted it would reach 87 percent at
the close of polls.


There were widespread complaints about electronic voting machines
which were used in a small number of polling booths, their first
appearance in a French presidential election.


But there was also widespread excitement over the high turnout.


In Clichy-sous-Bois, the flashpoint Paris suburb where riots
began that spread across France in late 2005, Ziad and his
younger brother Shahazad said they had not voted in 2002 but this
time they had picked Bayrou.


"Segolene, I just don't see her as president, Sarkozy, he's
scary, so that left Bayrou," said Ziad, who declined to give his
surname, as he left a polling station.


Officials said that by late afternoon turnout was 74 percent,
already exceeding the total participation five years ago.


It appeared on course to set a record, according to polling firms
IPSOS and IFOP, who predicted it would reach 87 percent by the
close of polls.


Only the two front-runners qualify for the second round. Initial
estimates of the result were expected the moment voting ends at
8:00 pm (1800 GMT).


Opinion polls have consistently given a clear first round lead to
Sarkozy, the 52-year-old leader of the ruling Union for a Popular
Movement (UMP).


Royal, 53, a former environment minister, has been in second
place followed by Bayrou, 55, and the 78 year-old Le Pen.


Rarely have candidates in a French election gone to such lengths
to cast themselves as the face of change for a country plagued by
doubts about its identity and its place in the world.


Few believe that French voters are about to stage a revolution at
the ballot box, but the next president will be the person who
best succeeds in addressing a yearning for change.

