

For the first time in history, Nigerians voting in the just-ended
presidential and governorship polls, dropped their ballots into
see-through "carry-all" plastic bags, an innovation that
electoral officials said was aimed at checking malpractices.


The light fragile-looking zipped-up polythene bags are neither
heat nor fire resistant, unlike the padlocked steel-coated glass
ballot boxes used in past elections.


Trimmed in green, with two floppy green carrying handles,
Nigeria's new bag-cum- ballot-boxes are identical to the large
zip-up transparent bags used to store new quilts and blankets on
supermarket shelves.


"When Nigeria decided to put voters' ballot papers, the key to
its democracy, inside an easy-to-open fragile plastic bag in the
name of a ballot box, what do you expect?", said a Lagos-based
lawyer who asked not to be identified.


"The kind of democracy you get at the end of the day derives from
the process that gave birth to it," he said.


But the country's election commission, INEC, said the new boxes
were aimed at shoring up the democratic process.


"We changed to the plastic bags because politicians already have
specimens of the old boxes we used and we felt that they could
easily fabricate them to commit electoral malpractices," an INEC
official told AFP.


"This is an innovation. But INEC will use this box only for these
rounds of elections, and their run-offs if there are any. After
that, we shall discard these boxes and devise new ones," said the
official, who requested anonymity.


Saturday's presidential and National Assembly poll, as well as
state governorship and parliamentary elections held a week
earlier, were marred by violence and electoral malpractices,
including rigging and ballot-snatching.


A re-run of elections where voting had to be suspended due to
errors in ballot papers or complaints of malpractice would be
held in many parts of the country in the course of this week,
INEC said.


The race to step into the shoes of outgoing President Olusegun
Obasanjo is scheduled to mark Nigeria's first civilian-to-
civilian transition since the nation gained independence from
Britain in 1960.

