

Bayern Munich coach Ottmar Hitzfeld said on Sunday his side have
lacked a winner's mentality this season after their weekend
defeat leaves them in serious danger of missing out on a
Champions League place.


Bayern's 2-0 defeat at VfB Stuttgart on Saturday leaves them
fourth in the Bundesliga with a five-point gap behind third-
placed Stuttgart and only four games left to secure a European
Cup place by finishing in the top three.


If, from Bayern's perspective, the unthinkable happens and Munich
miss out on a Champions League place it will be the first time in
11 years the German giants have failed to win a place in Europe's
premier club tournament.


Two goals in two minutes by Stuttgart's Brazilian striker Cacau
killed off Bayern's hopes on Saturday and left Bayern with a
mountain to climb to reach the Champions League.


"The winner's mentality which Bayern Munich has always been
famous for has been missing this season," said Hitzfeld.


"The players were too worried about making mistakes and were too
afraid of failure, that is very worrying from our point of view.


"I am naturally very disappointed with the whole of the squad,"
said Hitzfeld, who has won the Champions League twice and will
coach the side again next season.


"Stuttgart were very combative and took the game to us, but we
didn't win any of the game's personal battles.


"We had some bad luck, their first goal was almost an own goal,
but even after the break we didn't really put them under any
pressure."


"We weren't able to penetrate their defence and there was a lot
of uncertainty in the way we defended, when you play as badly as
that, you deserve to lose."


Hamburg's Dutch midfielder Rafael van der Vaart and Werder
Bremen's German striker Miroslav Klose are just two of the high-
profile signings Hitzfeld has planned, but without the promise of
Champions League football, their summer recruitment could be
hampered.


But Hitzfeld says his side must recapture the winning edge and
will fight to the end for a third or higher finishing place to
win their Champions League berth.


"It looks as though Champions League qualification is out of
reach for us, but I believe we've still got a chance. We won't
give up," said Hitzfeld.


"We will be strengthening the squad during the summer."

