

Egypt on Sunday said it aimed to retrieve a 3,400-year-old bust
of Queen Nefertiti from Germany for the opening of a history
museum near the Great Pyramids in 2012, despite Berlin's
resistance.


The director of the Supreme Council of Antiquities, Zahi Hawass,
told German newsweekly Der Spiegel in an issue to be published
Monday that he would formally request a three-month loan of the
priceless limestone sculpture.


"If Berlin denies this wish, we will change our tune," Hawass
warned, saying Egypt could potentially ally with countries such
as China, Turkey, Greece, Italy, Mexico, Syria and Iraq "to put
together a wish list of artifacts that we would like returned
from abroad".


Hawass said Germany had not acquired the Nefertiti bust legally,
and that Egypt had been cheated into handing it over, which is
why he said Cairo had insisted on its repatriation for decades.


"Even Adolf Hitler did not at first object to early calls for its
return. But regardless of whether Nefertiti's stay in Berlin is
legal or illegal, the Egyptian people have the right to be able
to admire their ancient queen face-to- face," he said.


He said, however, that Germany had nothing to fear if it agreed
to a loan of the sculpture, which will be formally requested in a
letter to Culture Minister Bernd Neumann.


"I cannot understand this concern at all. We respect all our
contracts and agreements -- after all, we are not living in the
12th century. Of course the bust would go back to Germany after
three months," Hawass said.


Neumann and the Altes Museum in Berlin have rejected Cairo's
calls for a loan, saying Nefertiti was too delicate and valuable
to be transported -- claims Hawass sharply dismissed.


"I cannot believe that a responsible decision-maker such as
Minister Neumann would express such unfriendly and irresponsible
views and threaten the scientific cooperation between Germany and
Egypt," he said.


Hawass has made it his mission to retrieve Egypt's widely
scattered antiquities that can be found in museums around the
world.


The new Grand Egyptian Museum is scheduled to open in 2012 near
the site of the Great Pyramids at Giza, outside Cairo.


Cairo and Berlin have frequently locked horns over the bust,
which was unearthed by German archeologists in an artist's studio
on the banks of the Nile and taken to Germany under a 1913
agreement.


Nefertiti, renowned as one of history's great beauties, was the
wife of Pharaoh Akhenaton, remembered for having converted his
kingdom to monotheism with the worship of one sun god, Aton.

