

Australian seamer Nathan Bracken said it was crucial to wrap up
convincing wins over Sri Lanka and New Zealand to deliver a
crucial psychological blow against potential World Cup final
opponents.


The defending champions demolished Sri Lanka by seven wickets and
then the Black Caps by a huge 215 runs as Ricky Ponting's side
cruised into the semi-finals with a 100-percent record.


Australia, the two-time defending champions, face South Africa
here on Wednesday with New Zealand clashing with Sri Lanka in the
other semi-final in Jamaica on Tuesday.


"Seeing as New Zealand and Sri Lanka are both in the semi-finals,
we saw it as important to win those games," said left-arm seamer
Bracken who shrugged off the significance of Sri Lanka resting
Chamina Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan for their Super Eights
clash.


Lasith Malinga was ruled out through injury.


"Sri Lanka may have been minus three top bowlers but to us that
did not make any difference. It was another chance to make a big
statement and show everyone we are up for this World Cup," added
Bracken in his BBC column.


"We bowled well in pairs and that is something bowling coach Troy
Cooley has instilled in us to work and play together and support
each other.


"New Zealand came back at us hard but it was a day when
everything stuck and catches went straight to our fielders.


"It must have been a huge psychological blow to New Zealand,
knocking them over for 133 - and you never know that little edge
could come in handy soon if we both get through our semi-finals."


Bracken said that the Australians, who were widely written off on
the eve of the World Cup after losing consecutive series against
England and the Black Caps, were thriving in proving the critics
wrong.


"Every player has been putting their hands up at different times
to help out but to win this tournament it will take all players
to play well.


"As we get down to the business end of the World Cup, the
physical preparation gets more and more specific to what players
need and psychological preparation increases as well.


"Big games bring out the best in our players and you can feel the
intensity rise.


"Brad Hogg has been one of key bowlers in this tournament - every
time we have needed wickets he has got them - and this has had a
massive impact for us."

