

Chelsea blew an opportunity to close the gap on Premiership
leaders Manchester United as Newcastle held on for a 0-0 draw on
Sunday.


Jose Mourinho's side would have moved to within a point of United
if they had won at St James' Park, but they produced a tired-
looking display that could prove a major blow to their bid to
retain the title.


Chelsea's failure to take advantage of United's draw against
Middlesbrough on Saturday means they remain three points behind
the leaders, with both clubs having four games to play.


The London club were both fortunate and frustrated within the
first 20 minutes as another pivotal fixture at the top of the
Premiership opened at a frantic pace.


Less than two minutes had elapsed when Newcastle's Peruvian
midfielder Nolberto Solano floated a dangerous cross into the
penalty area and found Antoine Sibierski.


The ex-Manchester City forward beat Czech Republic goalkeeper
Petr Cech in the air and only a desperate clearance by the
Portuguese international Paulo Ferreira prevented a looping
header from rolling across the goal-line.


Six minutes later Chelsea's Ivory Coast forward Didier Drogba was
convinced the visitors should have been awarded a penalty but
referee Mark Halsey waved away a series of persistent claims.


Drogba's fellow countryman Salomon Kalou had driven into the
United goalmouth and his chipped cross appeared to strike the
left arm of United's Republic of Ireland full back Stephen Carr.


But Halsey refused to be swayed and minutes later Chelsea
suffered another setback when influential German midfielder
Michael Ballack was forced to leave the field with an injury.


Newcastle were on top and 11 minutes before the break James
Milner played in Carr with a sublime reverse pass and the
defender raced into the danger area. A low cross to the near post
struck England defender John Terry's shin and Frenchman Claude
Makelele cleared from Kieron Dyer.


Given the share of first half possession, weighted heavily in the
favour of the home team, Chelsea were fortunate to find
themselves on level terms at the outset of the second period.


And Lampard should have capitalised on the Londoners' good
fortune within two minutes of the restart only to screw a right-
footed drive over Steve Harper's crossbar from Kalou's clever
cutback.


Newcastle responded with the best move of the match as Turkish
international Emre and former England midfielder Nicky Butt
linked up to mesmerising effect.


The former Fenerbahce playmaker danced past three challenges and
squared a pass to Butt whose first time ball was played perfectly
into the path of Dyer. Marginally offside, the midfielder was
allowed to run clear and only a brave block from Cech maintained
parity.


Substitute Joe Cole crossed for Lampard in the 62nd minute only
for Newcastle defender Steven Taylor to intervene. But the loose
ball broke to Kalou at the far post and only a combination of
Carr, Harper and the backtracking Butt prevented the African from
opening the scoring.


Mourinho replaced Makelele with Ukrainian Andriy Shevchenko 15
minutes from time as he made one final bid to claim all three
points. But Chelsea were forced to settle for one point and and
could have few complaints after an unconvincing display.

