

West Indies batting genius Brian Lara may have smashed records
but his dream remains unfulfilled.


The stylish left-hander always wanted to make the West Indies a
dominant force in international cricket, but was disappointed
with the team's performances in the past decade.


"The last 10-12 years I spent as a player have been very tough.
It was a tough ride, a tough career," said Lara, who quit
international cricket after his team's World Cup Super Eights
one-wicket defeat to England.


"The West Indies people need a strong team and we have not been
able to produce that for a long time. The West Indies were
dominant in cricket when I was growing up."


Lara made his international debut in 1990, and went on to score
11,953 runs in 131 Tests with 34 centuries and 10,405 runs in 299
one-day internationals with 19 hundreds.


"My dream over the past 17 years was keeping the West Indies on
top. When I arrived, we were on top of world cricket," said Lara,
who was accompanied by his daughter Sydney, named in honour of
the venue where he hit his first Test century, at a crowded press
conference here.


"There was a decline and unfortunately we haven't been able to
stop that. That has been the most disappointing (thing). If
there's one thing that I have great hope for it is to see this
West Indies team get back to the top.


"There are many things I am sorry for. You try your best, but
sometimes your best is not enough."


The 37-year-old Lara felt changes were necessary to make West
Indies cricket stronger, saying it was the right time for him to
bow out.


"Results were not up to expectations and change was necessary. I
saw no reason for me to carry on at this point of time. It was
the right time to call it a day and I think I made a right
decision," said Lara.


"It was a privilege to play for the West Indies for 17 years and
to hold the bat for that long is something I am proud of. I wish
the team all the best and I wish the new captain all the best."


Lara holds two batting world records, scoring an unbeaten 400
against England in the Antigua Test in 2004 and an unbeaten 501
against Durham in a first-class game in 1994.


"It (records) was just destiny. The man above decides on all
these things," said Lara, who is also the leading scorer in Tests
and the fifth-highest in the shorter version of the game.


When asked what message he had for youngsters, Lara said: "Play
the game with passion and commitment and be well-prepared when
you enter the field. The support from my family was tremendous. I
have so much to thank them for."


Lara said he would be willing to serve West Indies cricket after
his retirement.


"I'll never be lost to West Indies cricket and I think I have an
important part to play, but let the right time come. I haven't
thought about my future yet," he said.


"There's a book in the pipeline. I can now do what I wanted to
but was unable to do when playing. There is no need to rush into
anything. I am not writing anything off."


Lara said he would like to be remembered as a player who
entertained people.


"As long as I entertained people I am happy. It's important to
put smiles back on peoples' faces. The fans gave an emotional
farewell to me. It brought tears to my eyes and I'm always going
to cherish memories like this."

