

US shares were mixed Friday as reports on inflation and America's
trade balance with the rest of the world, as well as General
Electric's profits, failed to excite investors.


Traders said the day's economic news did not appear to have given
investors enough confidence about economic growth to trigger a
rally.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 25.93 points (0.21
percent) at 12,578.93 at 1600 GMT following choppy morning
trading.


Technology shares bore losses as the Nasdaq composite lost 0.98
points (0.04 percent) to 2,479.34.


The Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index gained 1.71 points
(0.12 percent) to 1,449.51.


Stocks oscillated after the government reported that US wholesale
prices jumped a sharp 1.0 percent in March, but an easing of
inflation at the critical "core" level appeared to soothe some
analysts.


The inflation numbers showed that "core" prices, excluding
volatile food and energy costs which are seen by some economists
as a better indicator of future trends, were flat, despite
expectations for a 0.2 percent rise.


"Traders seem to be taking heart that inflation doesn't appear to
be spreading to a wider range of goods," said John Wilson, an
equity strategist at Morgan Keegan.


In a separate update, the government also reported that the vast
US trade deficit shrunk to 58.4 billion dollars in February, as
the balance of trade with Asian powerhouse China improved and
petroleum costs dipped.


For the first two months of the year, the deficit had shrunk
about nine percent from a year ago to 117.3 billion dollars,
sparking hopes that a string of widening deficits could be
abating.


"Overall, trade will add to (rather than subtract from) growth
for the first time in 12 years," said Nariman Behravesh, chief
economist at Global Insight.


On the earnings front, diversified conglomerate General Electric
said its first- quarter profits swelled to 4.5 billion dollars on
rising equipment sales to the aviation and oil industries.


Profits were also bolstered by better earnings from its NBC
entertainment unit.


GE's shares were up 28 cents at 35.46 dollars.


The conglomerate, often seen as a bellwether for the wider US
economy, reported strong growth in its infrastructure division
which churns out jet engines, locomotives and power plant
turbines.


Merck was also in focus after a US federal judge Thursday
dismissed an investors' class-action lawsuit against the
pharmaceutical group related to its Vioxx pain medication.


The investor lawsuit had been filed against Merck over certain
disclosures regarding Vioxx which Merck yanked from the market in
September 2004.


Merck said a New Jersey judge had thrown out the case on
technical grounds, saying the plaintiffs and their lawyers had
waited too long to file their lawsuit under statutes of
limitations.


US investment bank Morgan Stanley meanwhile announced it was
buying 13 Japanese hotels owned by All Nippon Airways Co. for a
record 2.4 billion dollars.


The transaction is reputed to be the largest real estate deal in
Japanese history.


Morgan Stanley's stock was down three cents at 80.04 dollars.


New York oil prices pushed over 64 dollars in moring deals.


Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose
to 4.761 percent from 4.737 percent late Thursday and that on the
30-year bond climbed to 4.936 percent against 4.910 percent. Bond
yields and prices move in opposite directions.

