

Scuderia Torro Rosso boss Franz Tost is hoping the long running
argument in the paddock regarding use of cutomer cars will be
concluded at this weekend's Bahrain Grand Prix.


A meeting of team principals has been scheduled to take place in
the next 48 hours by Formula One CEO Bernie Ecclestone, which is
hoped will bring an end to the row that has seen Spyker launch
arbitration action against Torro Rosso and Super Aguri.


Spyker believe that both teams are breaking Formula One's rules
because they have not designed and manufactured their own cars.


However Tost is optimistic a resolution can be sought: "Hopefully
there will be a solution for us and Formula One in general," said
Tost. "You never know how it will end. As far as I know from
(Spyker boss Colin) Kolles, it's a matter of money."


At last weekend's Malaysian Grand Prix Kolles lodged a complaint
to race stewards that some of their rivals had used the resources
of other teams in the design and creation of their cars - a
practice that if proved to be true would have been a clear breach
of Formula One's strict regulations. However stewards rejected
the claim.


However Tost has admitted Spyker's arbitration claim is of
concern to him and his team: "We have to pay attention to it
because the topic is at an arbitration court - and there's
troubles and work in front of us.


"If you have to go to arbitration, it's not the way we want to go
racing. We want to do it on the racetrack.


"We received two weeks ago a letter from arbitration saying that
Spyker went to court and we have 30 days where we can answer.
Then we will see. We are preparing our arguments."


Super Aguri managing director Daniel Audetto voiced his ill
feeling towards Spyker suggesting the action by the Dutch team
has come about simply through fear of defeat to the Honda powered
team.


"We are already the big surprise this year, so now we have
enemies who are protesting against us," said Audetto in an
interview with paddock newspaper The Red Bulletin.


"In the Piranha Club, they kill the small fish before he's too
big. We're becoming big so fast, we scare people and they are
trying to kill us. But they will not."

