

The US trade deficit fell slightly to 58.4 billion dollars in
February, as the balance of trade with China improved and
petroleum costs dipped, the Commerce Department reported Friday.


The figure was a bit better than the average analyst estimate of
a deficit of 60.5 billion dollars.


Imports fell 1.7 percent to 182.4 billion dollars while exports
declined 2.2 percent to 124 billion.


The deficit for the first two months of the year was 117.3
billion dollars, down about nine percent from a year ago and
raising hopes that the string of ever- increasing deficits may be
easing.


The politically sensitive deficit with China fell 13.3 percent
from a month earlier to 18.4 billion dollars. Despite the drop,
this still represents about a third of the overall deficit.


Exports to China rose 6.1 percent to 4.63 billion dollars while
imports from the Asian powerhouse declined 10 percent to 23
billion dollars.


Another factor in the lower trade gap was a drop in oil costs,
which pushed the petroleum deficit down to the lowest level since
June 2005. The average cost of a barrel of oil was 50.71 dollars
in February, but has risen since then, suggesting the deficit
could rebound.


Even though the trade picture improved with China, the gap with
Japan rose 8.6 percent to 7.06 billion dollars; exports fell 3.6
percent to 4.8 billion dollars and imports rose 3.3 percent to
11.9 billion dollars.


The deficit with the European Union fell 2.2 percent to 6.4
billion dollars and with Canada slid 29 percent to 4.8 billion.


Jason Schenker, economist at Wachovia Securities, said he had
been expecting a narrowing of the deficit but that the February
report showed both exports and imports slowing.


"This could be a sign of slowing global growth," he said.


But Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, said he
believes the pace of exports will increase thanks to a weaker
dollar, and that the lower deficit will be positive for the
overall economy.


"Exports will continue to grow strongly, thanks to robust growth
overseas and a weaker dollar," he said.


"Overall, trade will add to (rather than subtract from) growth
for the first time in 12 years."

