

President George W. Bush continues to support World Bank
president Paul Wolfowitz despite a scandal over pay raises and
promotions given to his girlfriend, the White House said Friday.


"The president has confidence in Paul Wolfowitz and his work" at
the World Bank, White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said.


"At the organization, he has worked to lift people out of poverty
around the world, he has focused his priorities on Africa, good
governance and how the World Bank can respond better and more
efficiently to crises around the world," she said.


"He is talking to his board at the bank, the board is performing
a review and I'll leave it at that."


Wolfowitz, who was backed for the prestigious post by Bush in
2005, was Friday fighting for his political life after World Bank
directors said they had not approved staggering pay rises for his
girlfriend Shaha Riza, a World Bank staffer.


As calls mounted for the former US deputy defense secretary to
resign, the 24 executive directors issued a statement that left
Wolfowitz squarely isolated heading into a weekend of high-level
talks among global financial leaders.


After a day-long emergency meeting late Thursday that stretched
late into the night, the board detailed the findings of its
investigation into the row over Riza, Wolfowitz's Libyan-born
partner, Riza.


More than 100 pages of documents released with the statement
revealed that on Wolfowitz's personal direction, Riza was given
raises that took her annual pay package to nearly 200,000 dollars
when she was reassigned from the World Bank to the US State
Department.


Riza remained on the World Bank payroll despite her move, which
was to forestall any conflicts of interest after Wolfowitz, 63,
took charge of the bank in June 2005.


"The executive directors will move expeditiously to reach a
conclusion on possible actions to take," the board's statement
said.


"In their consideration of the matter, the executive directors
will focus on all relevant governance implications for the bank."


Wolfowitz on Thursday apologized over the affair at the
development lender which handles its 20 billion dollar-plus in
loans each year around the world.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told
journalists.


"I will accept any remedies" proposed by the bank's 24-member
executive board, he added.

