

US envoy Christopher Hill Friday urged North Korea to call in UN
nuclear inspectors immediately or face a six-party joint response
for its failure to uphold a February denuclearisation agreement.


"They need to call the IAEA (UN International Atomic Energy
Agency)," Hill said when asked what Pyongyang could do to meet
Saturday's deadline on the initial steps towards dismantling its
nuclear programmes.


"That would certainly be an indication that they are getting
ready to do what they agreed in the February agreement."


In the pact, North Korea agreed to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear
power plant by Saturday, in exchange for fuel aid and diplomatic
recognition.


So far Pyongyang has refused to move due to US sanctions that
have blocked up to 25 million dollars in funds in a Macau bank.


Hill said the frozen accounts were no longer an issue as the
sanctions had been lifted and the accounts opened up.


"I can confirm for them that the accounts are all open," Hill
said. "It is time for them to get on with their denuclearisation
obligations."


He refused to speculate on whether North Korea could announce a
shutdown of its nuclear facilities this weekend as it celebrates
the annual Ariang festival, a major propaganda occasion that this
year coincides with the birthday of late leader Kim Il-Sung.


The festival also comes after North Korea this week appointed a
new prime minister and announced a new economic development plan.


"They have a lot of activities this weekend," Hill said. "You
have to ask them what this means."


Hill arrived to Beijing Friday after talks in Tokyo and Seoul. He
met with Chinese Vice Foreign Minister He Yafei and will meet
China's envoy to the six- party talks, Wu Dawei, on Saturday,
before returning to Washington on Sunday.


"We will work with our other partners on an appropriate response
in accordance with the circumstances -- this is a multilateral
process," he said. commenting on the likelihood of North Korea
missing the Saturday deadline.


The six party talks also include South Korea, Japan and Russia.

