

Global finance chiefs were to mount a fresh bid Friday to narrow
gaps on economic and currency policy at talks clouded by a
growing scandal looming over World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz.


Discord over currency rates and hedge-fund regulation has
deepened ahead of the latest meeting here of Group of Seven (G7)
finance ministers from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
Japan and the United States.


In the face of European unease over a weakening yen, Japanese
Finance Minister Koji Omi said ahead of a meeting with US
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson: "I wouldn't be surprised if
there were some open discussion of the yen, as usual."


The ministers, joined by their central bankers, were later to
convene ahead of weekend meetings of policymakers from the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank, where Wolfowitz is
facing increased calls to resign over alleged favoritism shown to
his girlfriend.


He stands accused of helping arrange a massive pay hike for his
Libyan-born girlfriend, former World Bank communications
specialist Shaha Riza, when she was transferred to the US State
Department in 2005.


Wolfowitz on Thursday admitted to errors in the procedures under
which the pay package was approved and on Friday received the
backing of President George W. Bush, for whom as an deputy
secretary of defense he helped plan the Iraq war.


But but still faced an open revolt from outraged World Bank staff
members agitating for his departure after a stormy two-year
tenure.


The World Bank's 24-member board of executive directors early
Friday pinned responsibility for the pay hikes and rapid
promotions given to Riza directly on Wolfowitz, leaving him more
isolated than ever and his fate uncertain.


"The executive directors will move expeditiously to reach a
conclusion on possible actions to take," the board's statement
said.


Heading into the weekend's high-level talks, IMF Managing
Director Rodrigo Rato said the world economy was poised to extend
"one of the longest sustained periods of growth in the modern
era."


Despite a slowdown in the United States, a slight deceleration in
Europe, and a sharp global stockmarket correction in February, G7
ministers can take heart from a generally rosy outlook for global
growth as Japan perks up and China leads the charge for
developing economies.


But within the group there remain unresolved differences on
currency volatility and proposed measures to regulate the
trillion-dollar hedge fund industry.


A weakening Japanese yen is causing consternation in European
capitals, where officials fear the trend could penalize eurozone
exports, making them more expensive and less competitive, and
thereby jeopardize a nascent recovery in the 13-nation zone.


But European disquiet is not shared by the United States, which
argues that the undervalued Chinese yuan is the principal threat,
giving Chinese goods an unfair advantage on US markets and
costing US jobs.


At their last meeting in Germany in February the G7 in a final
statement spared any criticism of Japanese monetary policy and
instead called explicitly on China to allow the yuan to
appreciate.


European Central Bank chief Jean-Claude Trichet on Friday
recalled that in February there was "a clear-cut message from the
G7 that currencies in emerging countries in Asia should
appreciate progressively and orderly."


This time around, analysts are predicting that the G7 will again
opt for a soft tone in its final statement to be issued later
Friday.


"The chances of strong remarks on a weak yen are very slim this
time," said Tokyo-based Commerzbank analyst Ryohei Muramatsu.


"And since foreign exchange rates are stable in an orderly manner
right now, there is no need for the G7 to say anything that may
possibly disturb the market," he said.


Another hot button issue dividing the G7 is the trillion-dollar
hedge fund industry, where lucrative but high-risk investments
are drawing serious cash from big banks and public pension funds.


Industry representatives were scheduled to hold talks with G7
deputy ministers on Sunday.


But a German initiative to tighten control over hedge funds is
being resisted in the United States and Britain, home to most
such instruments.


US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke earlier this week
reaffirmed his own opposition to government regulation,
preferring to leave that job to markets.


The IMF as well has rejected tougher hedge fund oversight.

