

US and Afghan troops backed by warplanes killed more than 35
Taliban militants during a five-hour battle in a bitterly
contested area of southern Afghanistan, the US-led coalition said
Friday.


Meanwhile a NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) soldier was killed in a separate gunbattle with rebels on
Friday, becoming the 12th foreign soldier to die in Afghanistan
in a week.


US special forces and Afghan troops also killed three Taliban who
pinned down a group of civilian contractors after their
helicopter came down in another area.


The fighting on Thursday in which most of the rebels were killed
took place in the Sangin district of Helmand province, which
around 1,000 Afghan and international troops wrested from
insurgent control at the weekend.


"More than 35 Taliban fighters were killed by ANA (Afghan
National Army) and coalition forces during the five-hour
afternoon battle," the coalition said in a statement.


The statement said the clashes erupted after the troops
identified several militant groups in the region. US air support
was also called to pursue the fighters as they fled, the
statement said.


Sangin is one of several districts in southern Afghanistan that
have been out of government control at times during the last year
amid a fierce insurgency led by the Islamist Taliban.


The NATO soldier, whose name and nationality were not revealed,
was killed in a firefight with rebels in an unnamed part of
southern Afghanistan on Friday, ISAF said in another statement.
Two other NATO troops were injured.


The death brought to 40 the number of international troops killed
in Afghanistan this year. Some 170 were killed there in 2006.


It came a day after two NATO soldiers were killed in separate
explosions in southern Afghanistan, and follows Canada's heaviest
single-day troop loss in 50 years with the deaths of six soldiers
near Kandahar on Sunday.


Separately on Thursday five civilian contractors had to be
rescued after their helicopter made a forced landing in
southeastern Ghazni province late Thursday.


The Taliban earlier said it had "hit" a NATO helicopter there.


Militants started firing at the passengers, who evaded them
"until coalition close air support arrived and engaged the
pursuing enemy fighters. Three extremists were killed in the
engagement," a coalition statement said.


"With the recent kidnappings by extremists, these brave soldiers
and policemen, who rescued the civilians, likely prevented
another cowardly hostage taking," coalition spokesman Major
Christopher Belcher said.


Two French aid workers were apparently kidnapped by the Taliban
in southwestern Nimroz province on April 3.


French President Jacques Chirac called his Afghan counterpart
Hamid Karzai late Thursday to "demand his support" for efforts to
free them, according to Karzai's office.


"The president in response assured that all relevant Afghan
authorities will do their utmost to secure their release," it
said.


The Taliban beheaded an Afghan journalist kidnapped with an
Italian reporter a month ago. The Italian journalist was freed
after two week in captivity under a deal which saw five Taliban
free from Afghan jails.


Around 1,000 people, most of them militants, have died in
insurgency-related violence this year.

