

West Indies players chief Dinanath Ramnarine claims a lack of
preparation was the root cause of the team's World Cup flop.


But he also added that the players themselves must hold their
hands up for the poor showing.


"Ultimately, the players must accept some responsibility for
their performance in this tournament," said Ramnarine, the West
Indies Players Association (WIPA) president.


"But there were issues raised by the players through WIPA about
the state of preparation for the World Cup and other issues that
contributed to their poor performance."


Ramnarine told the Trinidad Express that he believed the failure
of the team to engage in a well-planned programme of preparation
in the months leading up to the World Cup was one of the major
reasons why the team failed to play competitive cricket in the
Super Eights where they slumped to four straight huge defeats.


He also said there were other reasons for the dismal display.


Ramnarine identified the last minute completion of stadia, the
failure to replace physical trainer Bryce Cavanagh and to appoint
a bowling coach.


He also cited the protracted negotiations of World Cup contracts
which were settled two weeks into the competition.


Australian Cavanagh resigned during the Pakistan tour in December
and was never replaced, while an arbitration panel, headed by
Barbados Chief Justice Sir David Simmons - after being called in
to decide how the 11 million dollars from the International
Cricket Council (ICC) should be split - only resolved the matter
two weeks into the tournament.


"Despite deviation from certain agreed provisions, we advised the
players to sign the contracts and we would allow the disputed
sections to be referred to further arbitration so as to avoid
distracting the team," said Ramnarine.


The WIPA chief also added that he was disappointed that the
contract talks for the upcoming tour of England, scheduled to
start on May 17, are still outstanding.


"Up to this moment, we're a few weeks away and the WICB has not
responded to daily correspondence and communications from us
concerning the matter," he said.

