

England fast bowler James Anderson shrugged off his country's
mediocre World Cup form to declare: 'Win four more games and
we'll be champions'.


England need to win both of their remaining Super Eights games
against South Africa on Tuesday and West Indies on April 21 to
have any hope of making the last four.


But the signs aren't good as Michael Vaughan's men have laboured
to wins over minnows Canada, Kenya, Ireland and Bangladesh while
losing to Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka.


"We've not played to our potential so far, but there's a feeling
that we're not too far away from putting in a couple of good
performances," said Anderson here on Friday.


"We know we have to win every game from here but another four
wins and we'll be lifting the World Cup - while we're here we
want to win the World Cup and we've still got a really good
chance of doing that.


"It would be nice if we could progress into the next stage. It's
what you play the game for, a chance of playing in the World
Cup."


England have never won the World Cup and have not made the semi-
finals since 1992.


Australia, with 10 points, made sure of their semi-final place on
Friday with a nine-wicket win over Ireland while Sri Lanka and
New Zealand, currently on eight points, are favourites also to go
through.


That leaves England (four points) and South Africa (six points)
to fight it out for the last place with two games left to play.


Anderson as well as fellow seamers Sajid Mahmood and Andrew
Flintoff has generally performed well but it's been England's
batting which has let them down.


In particular, the top order has struggled for runs.


But Anderson insisted that the batsmen will come good and pointed
to Ed Joyce's 107 against Australia in Sydney in February, which
helped England beat Australia in the CB series.


"Ed's hundred sparked us of and something like that out here
might just make us click again this time," said Anderson.


"We've bowled well as a team, although we're probably not batting
to our potential. I think a couple of the guys just need a bit of
luck here and there, and there will be a big score around the
corner."

