

Crude oil prices ended mixed Friday after Brent North Sea crude
hit a seven- month high and flirted with 70 dollars a barrel on
concerns that current supplies may be insufficient to meet
demand.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 22 cents to close at 63.63 dollars per
barrel. Earlier Friday it went as high as 64.58 dollars.


In London, Brent North Sea crude for May delivery rose as high as
69.59 dollars a barrel. It later settled at 68.97 dollars per
barrel, up 25 cents from Thursday. The contract expired at the
close.


A key factor for the markets was the question of refinery
problems in the United States amid a gearup for the key vacation
season.


"At this point, the string of refinery upsets is beyond the
pale," said John Kilduff, analyst at Fimat USA.


Even with gasoline prices soaring, Kilduff said refiners have
been caught with glitches.


"Our inclination is to believe that this country's refinery
infrastructure is showing its age," he said.


The situation suggests no relief in sight from rising prices even
as US pump prices hit fresh highs.


"Market participants are worried about falling US gasoline
supplies as a result of recent refinery outrages ahead of the
summer driving season," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said in
London.


Inventories of US gasoline plunged by 5.5 million barrels to
199.7 million in the week to April 6, the US Department of Energy
reported on Wednesday. Analysts had forecast a lighter drop of
1.4 million barrels.


Gasoline stockpiles are a crucial focus for the market ahead of
the so-called US driving season that starts next month and sees
many Americans take to their cars for their holidays.


"People are looking at the strong demand for gasoline in the US,"
said Tetsu Emori, chief commodities strategist at Mitsui Bussan
Futures in Tokyo.


Emori added that gasoline demand in the US market was 1.9 percent
higher than a year ago.


"The gasoline inventories drawdown is too fast and much higher
than last year," he noted.


Traders said geopolitical concerns including the standoff with
Iran and more violence in Iraq also underpinned prices.


"The bombings in Baghdad, yesterday, including the destruction of
the iconic Sarafiya bridge across the Tigris river, reminds
participants of the simmering caldron that is the Middle East,"
Kilduff said.


"If things were not already bad enough, Turkey is reported to be
considering action against Iraqi Kurds in northern Iraq ... The
bullish case is easy to make right now."


Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of crude, on Tuesday
pledged to further expand its nuclear drive after announcing that
its activities had entered an industrial phase, sparking new
criticism from the West and renewed calls for negotiation.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appears in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran may disrupt its oil exports should
it be hit harder.

