

North Korea promised Friday to honour a deal on scrapping its
nuclear programme once millions of dollars of frozen assets had
been released, as the United States said the communist state was
unlikely to hit its deadline to shot down a reactor.


The pledge came as the Saturday deadline approached for the
Stalinist state to start shutting down its Yongbyon reactor.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," Kim Son-
gyong, deputy director of the foreign ministry's European
department, told AFP in an interview in Pyongyang.


"We will respect our commitment as it is written in the February
13 agreement. No more and no less," he said.


His remarks came several hours after the North's foreign
ministry, in a statement on the official Korean Central News
Agency, said it would "confirm soon" whether funds in a Macau
bank have been unfrozen as the United States has promised.


The announcements raised hopes of progress in the implementation
of the February 13 six-nation denuclearisation agreement.


But the United States cautioned Friday that North Korea was
virtually certain to miss the weekend deadline, although they
added this would not necessarily lead to a collapse of the deal.


"I think most experts would tell you that it is fairly hard to
completely shut down and seal for purposes of abandonment ... a
nuclear reactor in 24 hours," State Department spokesman Tom
Casey said.


"It's pretty hard to see how they can do that," he said. "But
there are things that they can do in the next 24 hours, and they
need to do it."


North Korea had refused to move until it gets back its 25 million
dollars.


Its statements Friday were Pyongyang's first response to US
announcements this week that the funds in the Macau bank, frozen
since 2005 on accusations of money laundering and counterfeiting,
were available for collection.


After visiting Tokyo and Seoul, US chief nuclear envoy
Christopher Hill arrived in Beijing Friday for more
consultations.


Hill responded cautiously to North Korea's statements, saying, "I
heard that about a month ago."


He also urged North Korea to call in UN nuclear inspectors
immediately or face a six-party joint response for its failure to
uphold the February denuclearisation agreement.


When asked what Pyongyang could do to meet Saturday's deadline on
the initial steps towards dismantling its nuclear programmes,
Hill said: "They need to call the IAEA (UN International Atomic
Energy Agency)."


But Kim defended North Korea's stance saying, "To begin with, we
must absolutely respect the principle that actions and words must
be simultaneous."


"At the current time, the money isn't in our hands," Kim said.
"There has only been a verbal statement (by the United States)
which we were in the midst of verifying. But there is no reason
to be pessimistic."


He declined to confirm a report by South Korea's Yonhap news
agency that North Korean officials had already arrived in Macau
to collect the money in person.


US and South Korean officials say the communist state, which
tested its first atomic bomb last October, has stockpiled enough
plutonium from the reactor for another six to 12 weapons.


Kim said the February 13 deal "would have been unthinkable last
year." US President George W. Bush famously denounced the
communist state in 2002 as part of an "axis of evil" alongside
Iran and Saddam Hussein's Iraq.


As the clock ticked to the nuclear deadline, the other nations
involved in the six-way talks -- China, Japan, Russia and South
Korea -- played down expectations.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said earlier Friday
that as long as all sides remain committed, "it's important not
to be bound to the date but to carry out the agreed steps in a
stable way."


A senior US official said Friday that until Yongbyon is
verifiably shut and sealed, North Korea will not receive 50,000
tonnes of fuel oil and Washington will not move to establish
diplomatic relations as called for under the agreement.

