

Efforts to anchor Poland's tough anti-abortion law in the
constitution sparked a revolt Friday in the ruling conservative
camp, as confusion reigned ahead of a parliamentary vote.


Faced with an array of draft amendments to the constitution
proposed by the far- right League of Polish Families (LPR) and
counter-moves by President Lech Kaczynski, dozens of lawmakers
from Kaczynski's Law and Justice (PiS) party broke ranks.


Some 60 members of the 153-strong PiS bloc demanded that
Kaczynski withdraw his proposals, after constitutional experts
said the amendments were too vague.


The LPR, which is part of the PiS-led coalition government, wants
to have an uncompromising "right to life from the moment of
conception" written into the constitution, opening the way for
Poland's already strict anti-abortion law to be transformed into
a total ban.


Kaczynski has instead proposed setting the current law in stone
-- with the goal of "preventing any future liberalisation of the
anti-abortion law" by the left, said Jadwiga Wisniewska of PiS.


Lawmakers were due to vote on five separate amendments later
Friday afternoon.


Poland, where more than 90 percent of the 38.2-million-strong
population are professed Roman Catholics, already has among the
toughest anti-abortion rules in Europe.


Liberal abortion laws were widespread in the communist bloc, but
Poland introduced tough new rules in 1993, four years after the
collapse of the former regime.


Abortion is currently only permitted in cases of rape, incest,
danger to the mother's life or irreversible malformation of the
foetus.


Doctors who break the law face a two-year jail term, although
women who have a termination do not face sanctions.


In the rest of the 27-nation EU, only Ireland and Malta have
similarly strict rules. Portugal recently liberalised its
legislation.


Opponents, including feminist groups, say a constitutional change
is pointless because it would simply strengthen the already
flourishing back street abortion industry.


"Anything can happen. We are very worried," Wanda Nowicka, head
of Poland's Family Planning Federation, told AFP outside
parliament.

