

Veteran batsman Younis Khan said Friday he had rejected an offer
to become Pakistan captain, saying he was "very disappointed"
with the furious public reaction to the team's World Cup exit.


Khan was deputy for nearly two years to Inzamam-ul-Haq, who
resigned after the shock first-round loss to minnows Ireland sent
them tumbling out of the tournament.


"I make an effort to play for the glory of my country with total
commitment. I am very disappointed the way we were greeted when
we returned from the World Cup," Khan told the Urdu-language
Express newspaper.


"It is not a pleasant thing if threatening calls are made to
players' homes, their effigies are burned, the players' pictures
are blackened and put on donkeys. How can I lead the team under
these circumstances?"


Khan told Geo television separately that he had been offered the
captaincy, but had turned it down for personal reasons.


"I have declined the offer to captain the Pakistan team," he told
the private station in an interview aired on Friday.


"I have a family and I am recently married and I want to spend
more and more time with them.


"I accept being a captain is a hard job in Pakistan. You are
alone at the top and there is no one to support you if you fail.
I can never enjoy being a captain."


He said he also wanted to step down as vice-captain, although he
was still keen to play for his country.


"It is not charming for me, I was looking for an opportunity
where I could relieve myself of the responsibility as vice-
captain also," he said.


Khan denied his decision was linked to the poor World Cup
showing, which was followed a day later by the murder of coach
Bob Woolmer.


"Even if we had won the World Cup, I would still have refused the
captaincy and step down as vice captain to give myself time to be
with my family," he said.


Khan said there were four to five senior players in the team
including fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar, all-rounder Shahid Afridi,
and batsmen Mohammad Yousuf and Shoaib Malik who could fill the
top slot.


Sources in the Pakistan Cricket Board told AFP on Wednesday that
Khan declined the offer because the PCB wants to put in place a
new code to check so-called "player-power."


But Khan denied his decision had anything to do with a power
struggle within the Pakistan set-up.


The stylish batsman also hinted he could retire from one day
international cricket in the months ahead.


"As my average will reflect, I know I am a better Test batsman
than a one-day player and may be in the next couple of months I
only play Test cricket," he said.


Khan has scored 4,291 runs in 53 Tests with a healthy average of
48.21. In 149 one-day internationals, he had scored 3,960 with an
average of 31.42.


He was captain for the Champions Trophy in India in October when
Inzamam was banned for the Oval Test ball-tampering controversy
last year.


But Khan initially refused the role at the time, saying he did
not want to be a "dummy captain," apparently over differences
with some of the senior players and over some selections.

