

Global finance chiefs are to mount a fresh bid Friday to narrow
gaps on economic and currency policy at talks overshadowed by a
growing scandal looming over World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz.


Discord over currency rates and hedge-fund regulation has
deepened ahead of the latest meeting here of Group of Seven (G7)
finance ministers from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
Japan and the United States.


The ministers were to convene ahead of weekend meetings of
policymakers from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank,
where Wolfowitz is facing increased calls to resign over alleged
favoritism shown to his girlfriend.


Wolfowitz stands accused of helping arrange a massive pay hike
for his Libyan- born partner, former World Bank communications
specialist Shaha Riza, when she was transferred to the US State
Department in 2005.


Wolfowitz on Thursday admitted to errors in the procedures under
which the pay package was approved but still faced an open revolt
from outraged World Bank staff members agitating for his
departure after a stormy two-year tenure.


Early Friday, the World Bank's 24-member board of executive
directors pinned responsibility for the pay hikes and rapid
promotions given to Riza directly on Wolfowitz, leavinng him more
isolated than ever and his fate uncertain.


"The executive directors will move expeditiously to reach a
conclusion on possible actions to take," the board's statement
said.


Heading into the weekend's high-level talks, IMF Managing
Director Rodrigo Rato said the world economy was poised to extend
"one of the longest sustained periods of growth in the modern
era."


Despite a slowdown in the United States, a slight deceleration in
Europe, and a sharp global stockmarket correction in February, G7
ministers can take heart from a generally rosy outlook for global
growth as Japan perks up and China leads the charge for
developing economies.


But within the group there remain unresolved differences on
currency volatility and proposed measures to regulate the
trillion-dollar hedge fund industry.


A weakening Japanese yen is causing consternation in European
capitals, where officials fear the trend could penalize eurozone
exports, making them more expensive and less competitive, and
thereby jeopardize a nascent recovery in the 13-nation zone.


But European disquiet is not shared by the United States, which
argues that the undervalued Chinese yuan is the principal threat,
giving Chinese goods an unfair advantage on US markets and
costing US jobs.


At their last meeting in Germany in February the G7 in a final
statement spared any criticism of Japanese monetary policy and
instead called explicitly on China to allow the yuan to
appreciate.


Analysts are predicting that the G7 will again opt for a soft
tone in its final statement to be issued later Friday.


"The chances of strong remarks on a weak yen are very slim this
time," said Tokyo-based Commerzbank analyst Ryohei Muramatsu.


"And since foreign exchange rates are stable in an orderly manner
right now, there is no need for the G7 to say anything that may
possibly disturb the market," he said.


Julian Jessop, an analyst with Capital Economics, was even
blunter.


"G7 comments will not make any difference, especially as they are
not backed up by any hard action."


Another hot button issue dividing the G7 is the trillion-dollar
hedge fund industry, where lucrative but high-risk investments
are drawing serious cash from big banks and public pension funds.


Industry representatives were scheduled to hold talks with G7
deputy ministers on Sunday.


But a German initiative to tighten control over hedge funds is
being resisted in the United States and Britain, home to most
such instruments.


US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke earlier this week
reaffirmed his own opposition to government regulation,
preferring to leave that job to markets.


"Thus far, the market-based approach to the regulation of hedge
funds seems to have worked well, although many improvements can
still be made," he said in a speech in New York.


The IMF as well has rejected tougher hedge fund oversight.


The Fund's chief economist, Simon Johnson, argued this week that
"sensible, responsible macroeconomic policies" by governments
were the best protection against instability in the financial
markets.


"But we don't see anything in this current situation that would
merit a heavy- handed, big increase in regulation across the
board of any kind."

