

Ireland has decided to spend more on a campaign to legalise tens
of thousands of undocumented Irish immigrants living in the
United States, Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern said on Friday.


Ahern said the government is giving 50,000 euros (67,700 dollars)
to the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform (ILIR), bringing total
government funding to 133,000 euros since the group was set up in
2005.


The announcement comes before an ILIR meeting in Dublin at the
weekend.


The Irish government last year also gave almost 1.3 million euros
to other groups helping undocumented Irish people with social and
economic problems associated with their precarious status.


It is estimated that between 25,000 and 50,000 undocumented Irish
live in the United States, though the figures has been declining
amid tighter controls on immigrants in the wake of the September
11, 2001 attacks.


Ahern said finding a resolution to the situation facing the Irish
undocumented is a key priority for his government. Irish
emigrants contributed much to the Irish economy in the leaner
years before a boom began in the 1990s.


The plight of the emigrants had been raised by Prime Minister
Bertie Ahern in his meeting in Washington last month with
President George W Bush, the Irish foreign minister said.


"We stressed the hardship experienced by so many families in
Ireland when their relatives are unable to return home for
important family events," he added.


The pair "were greatly encouraged by the response in Washington
and we believe that the prospects for the passage of a bill that
would assist the undocumented are better now than at any stage in
over 15 years," he said.


Ahern said that as a nation Ireland could not turn its backs on
the undocumented Irish living in a "twilight world" in the US.


"Many of these people have set up home and have deep roots in the
US, raising children and contributing to their community. I have
heard their sad stories at first hand on my many visits to the
US.


"We must do all we can to reunite these families," Ahern said.

