

Exiled Russian multi-millionaire Boris Berezovsky called Friday
for "direct action" to overthrow President Vladimir Putin,
prompting Moscow to renew an extradition request for the Russian.


But the tycoon tempered an earlier call for the use of "force" to
oust Putin, saying he did not support violent means, after both
Russia and Britain condemned his initial comments.


"Elections are not a viable means of ensuring democratic change
in Russia. Therefore I do support using other methods to push for
a change back towards democracy," he said.


"However, I wish to make very clear that all of these methods
would be bloodless... I do support direct action. I do not
advocate or support violence."


His comments came in a statement to "clarify" remarks in a
newspaper interview in which he called for the use of force --
triggering immediate denunciations from Moscow and London and
police to take notice.


The Russian tycoon, who fled his homeland in 2000and is now based
in Britain, told The Guardian daily that the current Kremlin
regime could not be ousted democratically and there was no other
option but force.


"We need to use force to change this regime.. It isn't possible
to change this regime through democratic means," he said. "There
can be no change without force, pressure."


In particular he said he was in contact with certain elite people
in Russia, and was involved in financing. Asked by the newspaper
if he was fomenting a revolution, he said: "You are absolutely
correct."


London's relations with Moscow were seriously strained after the
radioactive poisoning murder of former Russian agent Alexander
Litvinenko in November last year.


In a statement, Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she was
aware of the report, which appeared to call for the overthrow of
a sovereign state.


"I deplore such sentiments. We expect everyone living or working
in, or visiting the United Kingdom, whatever their status, to
observe our laws and regulations," she added.


"The Home Office (interior ministry) will now seek to collate
full information on the alleged comments so that a review and
full assessment can be made."


Meanwhile Scotland Yard said Friday evening it was also looking
at Berezovsky's comments.


"We are currently assessing the contents of a Guardian article...
to determine if any offences may have been disclosed. We will
also be liaising with (prosecutors) in due course," a spokesman
said.


He added: "We do not have an investigation as we speak. We are
assessing to see if one is required."


Russian reaction was swift with a renewed a request for Britain
to extradite Berezovsky.


"Calls for the violent overthrow of the political authorities are
sufficient grounds to undertake the relevant measures," Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by the Interfax news
agency.


"I have given the order to open a criminal case insofar as he
openly called for the overthrow of the constitutional authorities
in Russia," Prosecutor General Yury Chaika told journalists in
Moscow.


Berezovsky, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003, and London
has repeatedly rejected Moscow's extradition requests.


Lavrov said Friday the exiled businessman was "crudely abusing"
his status as a political refugee and "undertaking actions which
under British legislation demand his extradition."


The Russian oligarch was questioned late last month as part of
Russia's ongoing probe into Litvinenko's murder, with London
police asking questions on behalf of Russian investigators.


Berezovsky was among those who pointed the finger firmly at
Moscow, a charge Russia repeatedly denied.

