

Scientists have succeeded in turning human stem cells into
immature sperm cells which researchers said could lead to
treatments for male infertility in a study published Friday.


The lead scientist, Karim Nayernia, last year succeeded in using
sperm cells created from mouse embryonic stem cells to fertilize
mice eggs, resulting in seven live births.


Experts in cell biology, however, cautioned that the results must
be evaluated with caution and may not lead to the hoped for
developments.


The results of the experiment, conducted in Germany, were
published in the journal Reproduction: Gamete Biology.


Nayernia and his colleagues took bone marrow from human
volunteers and isolated a type of stem cell that normally grows
into other body tissue, especially muscle.


They then cultured the cells in a laboratory in such a way that
they became male reproductive cells, bearing genetic markers
specific to partly-developed sperm.


In most men, these "proto-sperm" -- known as spermatagonial cells
-- develop into mature, functioning sperm, but in the experiment
the growth stopped at the most preliminary stage.


"We're very excited about this discovery, particularly as our
earlier work in mice suggests that we could develop this work
even further," said Nayernia in a statement.


"Our next goal is to see if we can get the spermatagonial stem
cells to progress in mature sperm in the laboratory," he said.


But other experts suggest that it is too soon to conclude that
therapies could evolve directly out of these experiments.


"The observations are interesting but one must be cautious about
drawing conclusions based purely on the expression of a few
molecular markers, without supporting functional data," said
Peter Andrews, a bio-medical scientist and co- director of the
Centre for Stem Cell Biology and the University of Sheffield in
England.


In general, manipulating stems cells, he warned, can cause
lasting genetic changes with unpredictable results.


Stem cell research faces not only scientific barriers, but legal
and ethical ones as well. Many countries-- including the United
States and France -- have placed very strict limitations on stem
cell research, especially when the cells originate from human
embryos.


The British government has recently proposed a ban on using
artificially created sperm or eggs in human reproduction.


Earlier this month, researchers at the Imperial College London
announced that they had succeeded in growing tissue from stem
cells in bone marrow that works in the same way as the valves in
human hearts, opening up the possibility that replacement tissue
could be used in transplants for heart disease patients.


Growing replacement tissue from stem cells has been a key goal of
scientists. Damaged body part replaced by tissue that is
genetically matched to the patient cannot be rejected.


To date, scientists have grown tendons, cartilage and bladders,
but no complex organs organs.

