

Morocco's King Mohammed VI on Friday urged north African
countries to work together against terrorism following this
week's suicide bombings in Algiers and Casablanca.


"We are ready to work with all the leaders of the five Maghreb
states to ensure the protection of our people and our countries,
and protect against the risks and perils of them turning into a
hideous and awful base for terrorism," he said in a condolence
message to Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.


Two suicide car bombings in Algiers on Wednesday killed 33 people
and injured more than 220. Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa,
formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat
(GSPC), claimed responsibility.


The day before, three suicide bombers blew themselves up and a
fourth was killed by police in the Moroccan city of Casablanca,
fuelling regional fears of a resurgence in militant activity
following crackdowns by north African governments.


In his condolence message, Mohammed VI expressed his "strong
condemnation" of the Algiers attacks, which he termed "odious
terrorist acts that go against all religions and all laws".


"We are all targets, and all those in the world who believe in
religious values and in democratic norms, especially those
advocating Islam, today constitute a potential target," the king
said.


Earlier in the week, he had visited Casablanca hospital where the
victims of Tuesday's blasts are being treated.


Meanwhile, the Casablanca security forces were on guard on Friday
against any further attacks on the port city, where the country's
first suicide bombings took place in May 2003, killing 45 people
including the 12 bombers.


"We are always vigilant, we are continuing our investigations and
the extent of the police currently in Casablanca proves our great
determination," a top security official told AFP.


In the commercial el-Farah neighbourhood where the bombs went
off, dozens of apartment blocks remained empty on Friday, their
residents having fled after the attacks. Many shops were also
closed.


One family decided to move house to help their little girl
recover from the shock of the explosions, which they said had
left her mute and refusing to eat.


Elsewhere, the police continued to question a person held in the
area on Thursday. A police source said the man "had gone into a
house and threatened to blow himself up if the occupants did not
give him something to eat".


"However, he was not carrying an explosive charge and was
neutralised by security services, before being taken in for
questioning," the source said.

