

New Zealand coach John Bracewell insisted his side had no
problems playing two of the leading teams at the World Cup in the
space of three days.


The Black Caps, who suffered their first defeat of the tournament
when losing by six wickets Sri Lanka in the Super Eights on
Thursday, return to Grenada's National Stadium on Saturday to
take on another potential semi-finalist in South Africa.


New Zealand, third in the table and two points ahead of fourth-
placed South Africa, need one more win from their two remaining
Super Eights games to be certain of reaching the last four.


"We're very used to travel, play, travel, play. So there's no
excuse there in not being able to back it up. Every international
team has to do it," said Bracewell.


"We've got to concentrate on Saturday. It's a game we want to
win, must win."


New Zealand's batsmen had a largely forgettable day against Sri
Lanka with the exception of Scott Styris whose good form
continued with an unbeaten 111.


Meanwhile, down the order James Franklin, primarily a left-arm
quick, showed further evidence of his batting ability with 25 not
out off 27 balls.


Bracewell said he was thinking of promoting Franklin to take on
opposition spin bowlers.


That's unlikely to be an issue against South Africa, who rarely
field a specialist slow bowler, although skipper Graeme Smith
bowls off-spin while left- armer Robin Peterson is in the Proteas
squad.


However, it is a tactic that could come into play during New
Zealand's final Super Eights match a week Friday against world
champions Australia, who have left-arm wrist spinner Brad Hogg in
their attack.


"It's great that he's starting to grow in confidence," Bracewell
said of Franklin.


"There are times when I'm tempted to try him against the left-arm
spinners and give them a belt in the middle and used him as a bit
of a shock-hitter. That is now becoming an option."


South Africa's batsmen were undone by Bangladesh's trio of
spinners during a shock 67-run Super Eights defeat in Guyana last
Saturday.


That result could see New Zealand make a change to their attack
by bringing in an extra spinner in off-break bowler Jeetan Patel
to play alongside left-armer Daniel Vettori.


Meanwhile, the coach defended New Zealand captain Stephen
Fleming's tactics during the Sri Lanka match.


Fleming delayed taking powerplays in a bid to minimise damage to
his side's run- rate.


And with that being the first tie-breaker for semi-final
qualification if teams are level on points, Fleming said any side
that didn't think about it was "dumb".


Bracewell added: "We took a gamble on bringing back (fast bowler)
Shane Bond to try to take wickets that way.


"Once that was done and dusted we went back to our normal plan of
trying to screw them down and put pressure on by stringing
together dot balls.


"As a consequence, that lengthens out the game. Then it becomes
the opposition's decision on whether to push.


"If they push hard to try to get their own run-rate in a
healthier position than a couple of wickets can actually bring
you back into the play.


"It wasn't that we weren't trying to win the game, it wasn't that
we were trying to fix ours (run-rate), we were trying to take
advantage of theirs to put ourselves in a position where we could
win the match," added Bracewell whose side are level on points
with second-placed Sri Lanka but narrowly behind the 1996
champions on net run-rate.

