

Auto-parts giant Magna International Inc. is considering a bid
for troubled Detroit auto maker Chrysler, its biggest customer,
the Canadian firm said Friday.


In a statement, Magna said it "continues to review potential
alternatives regarding the future of the Chrysler Group."


"Magna has previously commented that, as DaimlerChrysler is one
of its largest customers, Magna is seeking a full understanding
of the situation regarding the future of the Chrysler Group, and
any constructive role Magna may play in a potential transaction."


But, the company added: "There is no assurance that any
transaction will result from Magna's current involvement."


DaimlerChrysler AG recently put its American unit up for sale
amid shareholder discontent over its continuing losses since the
merger of Germany's Daimler and Chrysler in 1998.


Making seats, trim, suspension and engine components for
virtually every Chrysler vehicle manufactured in North America
generates about 3.6 billion dollars for Magna, or about 15
percent of its annual revenues.


In Austria, Magna also builds entire cars for DaimlerChrysler.


Thursday, the Globe and Mail newspaper quoted Magna chair Frank
Stronach as saying he was wooing investment firm Onex Corp.,
headed by his friend Gerald Schwartz, to help him launch an all-
Canadian bid for Chrysler.


"We'd like to have some partners and Gerry would be a good
partner," Stronach told the Toronto-based newspaper.


"We would make a big commitment," he added, indicating that the
offer would be "a big sum." But he would not overpay, saying: "I
wouldn't jeopardize Magna."


The Globe and Mail said DaimlerChrysler wants at least eight
billion dollars for Chrysler, but Magna and Onex would also
likely have to assume pension and health liabilities topping 15
billion dollars.


Meanwhile, Stronach's daughter Belinda quit Canadian politics
Wednesday to help steer the family business.


In a statement, the blonde bombshell who once challenged Prime
Minister Stephen Harper for leadership of the Conservatives as a
rookie glad-hander, said she would rejoin Magna as executive vice
chairman.


In an interview with public broadcaster CBC, she said: "It's a
significant time in the Canadian auto industry ... and I want to
be a part of that."

