

Sir Alex Ferguson insists he was always confident Cristiano
Ronaldo would extend his Manchester United contract and
criticised Real Madrid and Barcelona for their public pursuit of
the player.


The Portugese winger, 22, ended months of speculation by agreeing
a new, five- year contract that will keep him at Old Trafford
until 2012.


Ferguson admitted he was delighted to have secured the services
of a player who arrived at United for 12 million pounds (23.8
million dollars) from Sporting Lisbon in 2003 and who the United
manager regards as currently the best in the world.


But he believes the task of keeping Ronaldo in the Premiership
was not made any easier by what Ferguson considers to have been
an attempt by the two Spanish clubs to unsettle the youngster.


"I had no doubts but everyone else had outside Old Trafford,"
Ferguson  said.


"But I think there were some grounds for the speculation in the
sense they keep talking in Spain the way they do and unsettling
clubs like ourselves.


"I don't think they have a care for Manchester United or anyone
else when they decide to put their neck out for the best players
in the world. And they have shown that over the years.


"They don't have much care or regard how you feel. When it
continually goes on and on and on, you start worrying about the
substance and the source of it even though you know deep inside
of you it's a game that they play, particularly when their
elections are coming up.


"But there is no point reporting them to UEFA, I don't think that
would do any good. I don't think it matters if you fine them.


"But I was confident about Cristiano because one he is happy
here, his family is happy here. He is at the right club and he
has progressed and  developed in the club the way he has.


"The one thing is he is here until 2012 which is great news for
us so I don't think you need to worry about anything else. I'll
be gone by that time!"


A question mark has hung over Ronaldo's Old Trafford future ever
since he returned from the World Cup after playing a
controversial role in England's quarter-final exit at the hands
of Portugal.


The winger was heavily criticised for his clash with club team-
mate Wayne Rooney that led to the England striker's dismissal
before Sven Goran Eriksson's side exited the competition on
penalties triggering concern he would seek a fresh start in
Spain's La Liga.


But Ferguson revealed he convinced the player the controversy
would pass  and added: "I think he is happy here in the
Premiership. He has seen his career has risen here.


"He plays in front of 76,000 people every week here and he is
happy here so these are very important factors.


"There is a good atmosphere about the dressing room and he knows
it's a  good club anyway. In essential terms there was no reason
for him to think about leaving really, other than there is always
that thing about people perceiving Real Madrid as Galacticos or
whatever it is they call them.


"They have a pre-conceived notion of themselves and Barcelona are
a fantastic football club too but you can't say they are ahead of
Manchester United."


Ferguson is in no doubt that Ronaldo is the game's outstanding
player on current form and refused to rule out the possibility of
the Portugese ultimately being viewed on a par with Diego
Maradona and Pele as one of the  world's best ever players.


"He is 22 and can get better," the manager added. "At 22 he has
the same skill factor as Maradona and Pele, obviously. But you
have to remember Pele played in a world cup final at 17 which is
extraordinary and Maradona played in two World Cup finals and was
the player of his era.


"But Cristiano at the age of 22 is definitely getting to the
stage where he is the best player in the world and then it will
be left to everyone else to decide if he is as good as Maradona
or Pele but that's all in front of him."


Ronaldo will face Watford in the FA Cup semi-final this weekend
as United attempt to build on their stunning midweek Champions
League quarter-final triumph over Roma and continue their quest
for a repeat of the 1999 treble.


Ferguson said: "We have never lost an FA Cup semi-final before
and I hope  we don't start now. We will have respect for them
because they have some good players and a good manager.


"Every team as the ability to win a one-off cup tie and we will
certainly show them a lot of respect."

