

Plans to establish a presidential library and think tank for
George W. Bush at his wife's alma mater in Texas have come under
fire from both faculty and the clergy associated with Southern
Methodist University.


A vocal group of professors, concerned about how an institute
billed to be "inspired by the principles of George W. Bush's
administration" might affect the university's reputation, have
been working to block the library.


The faculty senate passed a resolution Wednesday asking that the
institute clearly states its "independence and separation from
SMU" and that it welcomes fellows with bipartisan views.


"I'm concerned that we're going to be judged by the things this
institute does," said history professor Benjamin Johnson.


"These guys are so divisive, so unpopular, it seems to me really
dangerous to go for an arrangement that could turn the face of
your university over to them without any controls over them."


The library and institute retain the support of a large part of
SMU's faculty and administration, who think it will raise the
university's profile and dismiss concerns that the institute will
be packed with Bush cronies who will promote the rationale for
war and other policies that the administration has fostered.


"I think people are projecting their worst fantasies onto the
institute. They think it's going to be some sort of fringe,
radical group," said Matthew Wilson, a professor of political
science at SMU.


The institute's fellows will not be teaching classes or granted
the status of faculty members, Wilson said, and the library will
foster intellectual debate by attracting hundreds of thousands of
visitors and over 1,000 scholars every year.


Wilson said it's wrong to see the library as a temple to Bush's
policies. "It's about history rather than politics and that's
something people have to keep in mind," he told AFP.


But fifteen current and retired bishops who launched an online
petition saying that the "linking of his presidency with a
university bearing the Methodist name is utterly inappropriate"
disagree.


The bishops are critical of the war in Iraq and the
administration's treatment of enemy combatants. The petition
currently has over 10,000 signatures.


"I am hesitant to see Southern Methodist University welcoming the
institute of a Methodist who has been so contrary to the
teachings of the Methodist Church," said Reverend C. Joseph
Sprague, a recently retired Chicago-area Methodist bishop who
helped sponsor the petition.


"It will do nothing but perpetuate the kind of neocon
(neoconservative) thinking of this administration which has taken
both this nation and the world in the wrong direction."


The criticism comes as university leaders enter final
negotiations, which they say they hope to conclude "within weeks,
rather than months."


Library planners -- including former White House chief of staff
Andrew Card and Bush's brother Marvin -- have made it clear they
have not ruled out Baylor University in Waco, although the
president recently told a Dallas television station that he was
"leaning heavily toward SMU."


Bush recently came to the defense of his library.


"I understand there are some who have reservations, and my
admonition to them, or my advice to them, is just understand that
a library, an institute, would enhance education," he said in the
interview with the Dallas television station.


"It would be a place for interesting discussion."

