

India on Friday dismissed allegations of recklessness after
Indonesia said one of its passenger jets was forced to turn
around in mid-air due to a ballistic missile test.


The Garuda Indonesia plane, full of Muslim pilgrims en route to
Saudi Arabia, had reached Indian airspace when the nuclear-
capable missile flew through the sky.


The incident on Thursday has triggered a diplomatic row between
the two countries, with Indonesia's foreign ministry demanding an
explanation as to why no warning was given.


But New Delhi said this was not the case.


"A notice was sent a week before the test by Indian aviation
authorities to ATC (air traffic control) Jakarta and other ATCs
in the region informing them about the launch window dates,
danger time, zone and height," Indian foreign ministry spokesman
Navtej Sarna told reporters in New Delhi.


"The ATCs were requested to take action to issue notice to
aviators and mariners in accordance with relevant ICAO
(International Civil Aviation Organisation) provisions," said
Sarna.


The statement came as Indonesia threatened to lodge a formal
protest, with national carrier Garuda's operations director
quoted as saying that "no prior information about the test" had
been given.


The Boeing 747 jet carrying 400 people aborted its flight after
90 minutes and returned to the Indonesian capital Jakarta, an
Indonesian report said.


Sarna also said India's missile tests were perfectly safe.


"India's missile testing programme has always followed the
requisite safety precautions including in the case of the Agni
missile test," he said.


The jet's exact location relative to the missile, which trailed
orange and yellow smoke as it rocketed skyward, has not yet been
made public.


Air India also said one of its incoming passenger flights from
Singapore had to return to the city-state because of the missile
launch, the Press Trust of India reported.


India announced Thursday the successful test-firing of the
medium-range ballistic missile, which can transport a one-tonne
nuclear warhead as far away as Beijing.


The Agni-III (Fire-III) blasted off from Wheeler Island, 180
kilometres (110 miles) northeast of Bhubaneswar, capital of the
eastern Orissa state.

