

A Central African Republic rebel group that has fought recent
deadly battles against the military signed a peace deal with the
government on Friday.


The agreement signed by the Union of Democratic Forces for Unity
rebels (UFDR) and the government of President Francois Bozize
calls for an "immediate end to hostilities" and grants amnesty
for rebel fighters.


"With the signing of this agreement, there will be no more
trouble, nor fighting," Bozize said after the agreement was
signed. "The population of Birao will be able to live in peace."


Talks that led to the agreement were held in the northeastern
town of Birao, which the UFDR held for a month last November. The
rebel group launched another attack on the town, about 800
kilometres (500 miles) to the northeast of the capital Bangui, at
the beginning of last month but were repelled by government
troops backed by French forces.


Damane Zakaria, acting UFDR chief, asked for a "pardon" from the
people of Birao and another town, Vakaga, "for everything they
suffered as a result of the rebellion."


"I promise to work for the return of peace in Birao," Zakaria
said.


A United Nations mission reported last month that nearly all of
Birao's 14,000 residents had fled in the fighting and 70 percent
of houses had burned.


Fighting over the last two years in northern CAR between various
rebel groups and the military has led to numerous deaths and the
displacement of more than 280,000 people, according to the United
Nations.


The government in February signed a peace agreement with a rebel
chief from a separate group. But several other groups refused to
take part, including the UFDR.


Friday's 10-point agreement allows rebel fighters to join the
regular army. The amnesty covers UFDR president Michel Am Non
Droko Djotodia and spokesman Abakar Sabone, who are currently
being held in prison in Benin.


Lamine Cisse, the UN secretary general's special representative
in the CAR, also attended the signing of the agreement.


The government has been assisted by a multinational force from
other states in the region as well as the French air force in its
attempts to repel rebel groups and reduce bandit attacks in the
north.


The country's army has also been accused of violent acts against
civilians in the north.


There have also been fears that conflict in neighbouring Sudan's
Darfur region could spill over into the CAR. The United Nations
children's agency, UNICEF, has warned of a "humanitarian
disaster" in the CAR, amid fears that the country is being
increasingly affected by the conflict in Sudan.


Bozize came to power following a 2003 coup.

