

British teachers challenged government policy Friday by calling
for a ban on new state schools which admit and indocrinate pupils
with one set of religious beliefs.


The National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers
(NASUWT), Britain's largest teaching union, adopted the stance at
their annual conference in Belfast, Northern Ireland, a spokesman
told AFP.


The move runs counter to calls from government ministers for
faith groups to be more involved in state education, providing a
"distinctive ethos" by sponsoring city academies or backing the
new breed of so-called trust schools.


"In England particularly, there are new academy schools which
take government funding. What we're saying is these should be
open to all the community," Seamus Searson, an NASUWT spokesman,
told AFP by telephone from the conference.


"There is a fear that some of the religious groups might take the
opportunity...to prevent children integrating with other children
and indoctrinating them slightly."


Searson said the decision by the 250,000-member union targeted
Christian, Muslim or any other religious group demanding
exclusivity at a state school in England, Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.


Education policy in England is set by the British government in
London, while policy in the other three nations is set by their
devolved governments.


NASUWT's Brian Williams, who proposed the original motion, said
many parents underwent "miraculous conversions" simply to win
places for their children at highly rated Church of England
schools.


"Schools exist to broaden people's minds and religions tend to be
the antithesis," he said at the conference.


There are 6,846 faith schools in the state sector in England,
most of which are Church of England or Roman Catholic primary
schools.


There are also 62 other Christian faith schools as well as 37
Jewish, eight Muslim and two Sikh.


A faith school is defined by the Department for Education and
Skills as "a school with a religious character."


In October, Education Secretary Alan Johnson sparked controversy
when he was forced to reverse plans to force faith schools to
accept more pupils from non- religious backgrounds after fierce
protests from Catholics.

