

Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo on Friday offered an amnesty
for crimes committed during the country's civil conflict, in the
latest boost to the unfolding new peace process.


The amnesty, which will apply only to crimes involving national
security, is part of last month's historic peace agreement signed
between Gbagbo and rebel leader-turned prime minister Guillaume
Soro to reunite the country.


"Violations against state security and national defence committed
by Ivorians in the country or in exile ... are fully pardoned,"
the new law said.


The clemency law covers the period starting September 17, 2000,
the day the house of the former military ruler Robert Guei, came
under attack from his own guards, to April 12, 2007.


The amnesty is meant to foster reconciliation with mainly the New
Forces (FN) rebels who unsuccessfully staged a coup to topple
Gbagbo in September 2002, according to an analyst on the Ivorian
crisis, Gilles Yabi.


Yabi, an expert with the global think-tank International Crisis
Group, told AFP in the Senegalese capital Dakar that the amnesty
which does not cover war crimes, is meant to benefit especially
the rebels.


For the new peace deal to work, "it was necessary to have this
kind of amnesty," said Yabi.


The amnesty was announced as the International Working Group,
made up of United Nations, African and Western diplomats, met in
Abidjan on how to respond to the peace deal, which sidelined the
original UN plan for Ivory Coast.


The head of the UN peacekeeping mission which has sponsored the
fragile peace process over the past few years, Abou Moussa, said
the latest mediators' meeting had to seek "a new approach" to
help stabilise the country.


Gbagbo and Soro secured a landmark peace deal brokered by Burkina
Faso to end the low-key but protracted civil conflict in this
cocoa rich-country, which has been politically and militarily
divided for the past four years.


The agreement, which gave Soro the post of prime minister, also
allowed for the end of the geographical split of the country by
removing a foreign-patrolled buffer zone separating the rebel-
held north and government-run south.


The zone is to be gradually cleared starting Monday.


The new peace deal also envisages the drafting of voters' lists
and the holding of elections this year.


The conflict in Ivory Coast, which accounts for 40 percent of the
world's cocoa production, dates from 2002, when Soro failed to
topple Gbagbo in a coup bid.


Two years of mediation talks led by the UN, African Union and
South Africa among others, laboured over issues such as
disarmament and identification of voters.


The UN had deployed an 8,000-strong peacekeping force, assisted
by 3,500 French soldiers, to patrol a ceasefire line and prevent
fresh fighting.


Security Council officials are in Ivory Coast this week to
determine how best the UN could contribute to the implementation
of the new peace deal.


Several diplomatic sources in Abidjan have said they believe that
Friday's meeting could be the working group's last.


But the meeting was inconclusive on its fate, with a source
saying it would ask the African Union and regional blocs for
opinions of its future role.


Soro, who until months ago, fiercely criticised Gbagbo, is due to
make his first address to the nation Friday since he took up
office two weeks ago.


Moussa said the new deal showed the political will of the arch-
foes "to appropriate the process... and create a new partnership
for peace."


The mediating group comprises diplomats from the UN, African
Union, European Union, the organisation of French-speaking
countries, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank as
well as from neighbouring countries and the United States,
Britain and France.

