

Pressure time has arrived in the World Cup, according to South
African captain Graeme Smith.


Speaking Friday before his team's Super Eights match against New
Zealand at the Grenada National Stadium on Saturday, Smith said:
"At this stage of the tournament it's always going to be pressure
time."


He said, though, that the match isn't a crunch game.


"No matter whether we win tomorrow we still have to beat England
(to qualify for the semi-finals). We know what we have to do and
we want to come out and play like we did against the West
Indies."


Smith said he wanted a repeat of the sort of attacking
performance that took his team to a match-winning total of 356
for four against the West Indies at the same ground Tuesday.


"We want to carry on playing that sort of cricket."


Although beating England in Barbados Tuesday may be essential for
South Africa, who have a poor net run rate, Smith said New
Zealand was an important match because of the influence it might
have on the final Super Eights placings.


If South Africa beat New Zealand and the Kiwis lose to Australia
in their final match, South Africa can push them down to fourth
place - and a probable semi- final meeting with Australia in St
Lucia - if they beat England.


Smith said New Zealand had reached a tough stage in their
campaign but said South Africa would not under-estimate them
despite their poor performance in losing against Sri Lanka in
Grenada Thursday.


"They're a well-balanced team and they've got a lot of options,"
he said.


"On Thursday, they were put under pressure for the first time but
they can easily bounce back. Often a day like that shows you what
you need to do and the level you need to perform at. The defeat
will put them under a bit more pressure but we're not going to
take them for granted."


Smith said all his players were fit, with Herschelle Gibbs having
recovered from a calf injury.


"We know what this wicket plays like and most of our players are
in pretty good form," said the captain.


Smith acknowledged that South Africa's net run rate was poor.


"Net run rate could play a role but what's on our minds is that
it is under our control. If we win the next two games we will
cruise in to the semi-finals. That's our focus. If we win the
next two games it won't come down to run rate," he said.

