

The United States acknowledged Friday that North Korea was
virtually certain to miss a weekend deadline for shutting down
its main nuclear facility.


But officials said there was still time for the erratic communist
regime to take steps to save a landmark six-nation deal to give
up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for aid and better
relations with Washington.


Under the February 13 agreement with China, Japan, Russia, South
Korea and the United States, North Korea had until Saturday to
close and seal its Yongbyon nuclear reactor, which it used to
produce plutonium for nuclear bombs.


But Pyongyang refused to act until a dispute was resolved over 25
million dollars of North Korean funds that were frozen in a Macau
bank under US-inspired sanctions.


Washington says those funds were made available to the North
Koreans this week, but it admitted Friday that there was not
enough time left to shut and seal Yongbyon.


"I think most experts would tell you that it is fairly hard to
completely shut down and seal for purposes of abandonment ... a
nuclear reactor in 24 hours," State Department spokesman Tom
Casey said.


"It's pretty hard to see how they can do that," he said. "But
there are things that they can do in the next 24 hours, and they
need to do it."


Casey and the lead US negotiator with North Korea, Assistant
Secretary of State Christopher Hill, notably called on Pyongyang
to immediately allow inspectors from the UN International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) into the country to verify the beginning of
steps to close Yongbyon.


"They need to call the IAEA," Hill told reporters in Beijing when
asked what was expected of the North Koreans before the deadline
expires.


North Korea reaffirmed on Friday that it would comply with the
February 13 agreement but only after receiving the 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in the Macau-based Banco Delta Asia
(BDA).


Macau monetary authorities said earlier this week that the
accounts had been unblocked and it was unclear why the North
Koreans had not withdrawn the funds.


Casey called the North Korean statement "positive," but said,
"What we really need to see now is some concrete steps taken."


The February 13 agreement does not lay out any penalties for
missing the deadline and US officials this week stressed that
five parties who negotiated the deal with North Korea had the
latitude to bend the timetable.


But a senior US official said Friday that until Yongbyon is
verifiably shut and sealed, North Korea will not receive 50,000
tonnes of fuel oil and moves to establish relations with
Washington as called for under the agreement.


"They don't get anything that is envisioned under the agreement,"
the official said.


Ultimately, the February 13 accord would see North Korea
dismantle its nuclear program completely in return for hundreds
of million of dollars worth of aid and a normalization of
relations with the United States and its neighbors.


Casey said there were no plans for a formal meeting of the six
parties over the weekend once the deadline passes and that
authorities would need "a couple of days" to assess the situation
and decide on the next steps to take.

