

A brazen suicide attack on Iraq's parliament showed that
militants can strike deep at the heart of power in a war that
needs a political rather than a military solution, analysts said
on Friday.


"This is a very dangerous development, not because of the
explosion itself, but it's a time and a place which is supposed
to be very secure," said Nabil Mohammed Younis, international
relations professor at Baghdad University.


A suicide bomber strapped with explosives and clutching a
briefcase walked unopposed to a cafe on the same floor as
parliament's debating chamber on Thursday, blowing himself up as
lawmakers lunched and chatted together.


It was the most flagrant breach of security at Baghdad's
fortress-style compound since the Americans invaded Iraq four
years ago, leaving Washington and the US military struggling to
explain how it could have taken place.


"It's very troubling that this happened inside the Green Zone,"
said White House spokeswoman Dana Perino. "And we're going to
work to make sure that... we find out how it happened and that it
doesn't happen again."


But Younis said such attacks are symptomatic in a country where
the government lacks credibility, security forces are riddled
with factional and sectarian allegiance and the land is subject
to foreign "occupation."


He highlighted the huge difficulties facing the Iraqi government
and the Americans to counter the kind of "guerrilla or terrorist
war" currently being waged.


"What happened is a consequence of the failure, or at least the
difficulties facing the political process. The problem is a
political problem" that must be solved between the political
parties, Younis said.


Although parliamentarians convened a special session on Friday to
condemn the bombing, pledging that it would not derail the
political process, few made any practical suggestions beyond the
customary expressions of fellowship.


"This violence can only be confronted by security methods," said
Vice President Adel Abdel Mahdi, a member of the main Shiite
political grouping that heads the government.


The Shiite-led administration has been widely criticised for not
managing to draw disenfranchised Sunni Arabs into mainstream
politics -- a move touted as the key to tackling the Sunni-based
insurgency.


Suggestions that the attack was an inside job, probably carried
out by a bodyguard, underscored both political shortcomings and
the fact that four years after the US-led invasion militants have
a stranglehold on Iraq.


"The only thing that is really surprising is that he was able to
penetrate the convention centre... it does suggest that it was
some kind of inside job," said Joost Hiltermann, director at the
International Crisis Group think tank.


"The attack reminded me of the fact that the (US President George
W.) Bush administration had no real plan for stabilising Iraq
beyond the security effort, which cannot succeed without a
similar political initiative.


"There has been no real ability to counter them (attacks), and
that is mostly because there has been no real political
reconciliation and anything short of that will never stop an
individual bomber from getting through," he added.


Although US officials have touted a drop in execution-style
killings since a massive security crackdown was launched in
Baghdad two months ago, they have freely admitted that suicide
attacks and car bombings remain a major scourge.


Hiltermann said the attack inside the very building where
parliament was in session showed that "nothing is safe, nothing
is secure inside Iraq."


But he also alluded to the limitations of the politicians, who
themselves ultimately have to end the war.


"This is a young parliament. It's a parliament that is trying to
sort things out in the middle of a civil war, so it cannot be
very effective in that kind of situation," he added.

