

London investors will be looking for positive company results
from supermarket giant Tesco, music label EMI and insurance group
Prudential to help extend share prices gains next week.


London's prestigious FTSE 100 index of leading shares finished at
6,462.40 points on Friday, up 65.1 points or 1.02 percent from
Thursday of the previous week. Friday's closing value, meanwhile,
was the highest since November 8, 2000.


The FTSE had shut last Friday and on Monday this week owing to
the Easter holiday.


Tesco, Britain's biggest retailer, rings up annual 2006 results
on Tuesday with pre-tax profits expected at 2.49 billion pounds
(3.65 billion euros, 4.95 billion dollars) according to analysts'
consensus forecasts.


The supermarket group, which takes one pound in every eight spent
by shoppers in Britain, is the world's third-biggest retailer
behind French supermarket Carrefour and US giant Wal-Mart, which
is out in front.


Tesco accounts for one third of the total retail market in
Britain -- equal to the combined sales of its two nearest rivals,
which are Wal-Mart unit Asda and Sainsbury.


Elsewhere next week, EMI, the world's third-largest music group,
issues an annual trading update.


EMI said Thursday that it had settled a royalties dispute with
Apple Corps, the publishing group founded by The Beatles, in a
move that could finally enable fans to get legal downloads of the
Fab Four's hits.


News of the settlement was overshadowed, however, by a report
which said that a key shareholder of music rival Warner Music had
warned the US group not to overpay in its takeover bid for EMI.


Other earnings news due next week includes first-quarter results
from Prudential and a trading update from Anglo-Australian mining
giant Rio Tinto.


Investors will also seek clues on the next step for British
interest rates from the release of March inflation data and
minutes from the Bank of England's rate- setting meeting earlier
this month.


The BoE held borrowing costs at 5.25 percent for the third month
in a row in April. However, analysts expect a possible quarter-
point hike in May as the central bank aims to keep annual
inflation under control.


British 12-month inflation rose to 2.8 percent in February,
compared with 2.7 percent in the previous month, remaining above
the government's 2.0-percent target for a tenth month in a row.

