

The Iraqi government spokesman warned Washington on Friday about
the consequences of a premature US pullout from Iraq, a day after
a suicide bomber penetrated Baghdad's parliament building.


"We feel that premature withdrawal would be a great gift for
those who did yesterday's attack, and definitely it will make a
vacuum of power in Iraq, which is not desired by anyone," said
spokesman Ali Dabbagh.


"That is why we feel that a job should be done collectively
between us and the international troops in order to get the Iraqi
forces ready to take responsibility," he told journalists at the
White House.


Dabbagh said it would be "difficult" to say how long US troops
would be needed in Iraq, but added that Iraq was on a "good"
path.


"There will be a speeding up of the training of the Iraqi forces
which will entitle the Americans, the Iraqi to negotiate ...
withdrawal," he said.


The US Congress is fighting to attach a 2008 deadline for troop
withdrawal to the release of billions of dollars in war spending
for Iraq and Afghanistan, a plan US President George W. Bush has
repeatedly promised to veto.


Dabbagh said he came to the United States to "reflect what's
actually going on there" and to "show the positive(s)."


The suicide bomber who struck Thursday inside the heavily guarded
Green Zone killed at least one person and wounded 22, officials
said, downgrading an earlier toll which put the number of dead at
eight. An Al-Qaeda-linked group claimed responsibility for the
attack.


Dabbagh denied that his country was in the throes of civil war.


"There is war against civilians. There is a war against Iraqi
people. There are groups which want to destroy Iraq and to
destroy the region ... So it is not a civil war at all."


Dabbagh added that the "majority of Iraqis, they do appreciate
what the (coalition) troops have done."


He also said improved relations between Washington and Tehran
could advance the situation in Iraq.


"Definitely, there is an interference from the Iranians in Iraqi
affairs, we don't deny that," Dabbagh said.


"And we feel that ... better relations between the United States
and Iran could minimize, could make the interference less."

