

New Zealand wicket-keeper Brendon McCullum has been fined 20
percent of his match fee for showing dissent at an umpire's
decision during Thursday's six- wicket Super Eights defeat
against South Africa.


McCullum, after being given out lbw for one to Muttiah
Muralitharan by Pakistani umpire Asad Rauf, was seen shaking his
head seemingly in disgust at an appeal by some Sri Lankans for a
close-in catch.


However, authorities have been very strict in recent years in
clamping down on anything that looks like a batsman questioning a
decision when given out and McCullum was fined by International
Cricket Council (ICC) match referee Mike Procter for a level one
breach of the governing body's code of conduct.


McCullum pleaded guilty to the charge and apologised to the
umpires in the post- match hearing at the Grenada National
Stadium.


His fine will be in the region of 500 New Zealand dollars (300
US).


"There is a thin line between disappointment and dissent and
Brendon crossed that line," said Procter in a statement issued
Friday.


"His reaction was unacceptable but, to his credit, he
acknowledged that fact at the hearing and apologised for his
conduct," the former South Africa all-rounder added.


"We must all be conscious of the fact that this is the biggest
tournament in the game with a huge audience and so every player
and official must adopt the highest standards of behaviour at all
times."


All level one breaches carry a minimum penalty of an official
reprimand and a maximum penalty of 50 percent of a player's match
fee.


The charge was laid by on-field umpires Asad Rauf and Billy
Doctrove, third umpire Aleem Dar and fourth umpire Mark Benson.


Procter reached his conclusion after a hearing attended by the
match officials, the player, New Zealand team manager Lindsay
Crocker and New Zealand coach John Bracewell.


For all level one breaches of the code the match referee's
decision is final and binding.


New Zealand, whose defeat Thursday was their first of the
tournament, are currently third in the Super Eights table and
still need one win from their remaining two second round matches
to be certain of a semi-final spot.


Their next match is against South Africa in Grenada on Saturday.

