

Australia required just five overs of hostile pace to storm into
the World Cup semi-finals with a crushing nine-wicket win over a
hapless Ireland in a Super Eights match here on Friday.


Pacemen Glenn McGrath (3-17) and Shaun Tait (3-39) reduced the
match between the defending champions and the Cup debutants to a
no-contest when they wrecked Ireland's top order with their
opening spells.


Ireland could never recover after being reduced to 12-4 in the
fifth over on a pitch having pace, bounce and movement. They were
eventually dismissed for 91, a total which was too small to put
pressure on in-form Australia.


The match was completed before the lunch-break as Australia raced
to the target off just 12.2 overs despite changing their batting
order.


Hard-hitting Adam Gilchrist (34) and Michael Hussey (30 not out)
ensured an easy victory with a brisk 62-run stand for the opening
wicket.


Hussey, a middle-order batsman opening the innings for the first
time, got valuable batting practice ahead of his team's last two
matches against New Zealand and Sri Lanka.


Both wicketkeeper-batsman Gilchrist and Hussey toyed with the
Irish bowling, gathering runs with consummate ease. Gilchrist hit
four boundaries in his 24-ball knock and Hussey finished the
match with a six off Boyd Rankin.


Andrew Symonds, who was also promoted in the batting order,
remained unbeaten with 15.


"The win has taken us to the semi-finals. It was very nice," said
Australia captain Ricky Ponting.


"It was a good toss to win. It was nice as we achieved what we
had set out to do in this game."


Ponting's unbeaten Australians now lead the table with 10 points
from five matches, followed by Sri Lanka (8/5), New Zealand
(8/5), South Africa (6/5), England (4/5), the West Indies (2/5)
and Bangladesh (2/5).


Ireland, who gave a good account of themsleves in the previous
Super Eights games, were overawed by the occasion for the first
time as they looked extremely vulnerable against quality pace
after being put in to bat.


"It was absolutely tough to play against Australia. They are the
two-times champions. We must learn from this game and we have to
fight back in the last two matches," said Ireland captain Trent
Johnston.


John Mooney (23), Kevin O'Brien (16) and Johnston (17) were the
only batsmen to reach double-figures in a brittle Irish batting
display lasting just 30 overs.


The carnage began in the opening over itself when veteran McGrath
brought one in sharply to rattle the stumps of Jeremy Bray. The
next four overs only added to Ireland's batting woes.


Tait bowled at a lively pace on a helpful track and was on a hat-
trick in only his second over when he trapped opener William
Porterfield leg-before and bowled Niall O'Brien.


Wickets continued to tumble as man-of-the-match McGrath had Eion
Morgan caught by Matthew Hayden in the slips, the first four
Irish batsmen contributing just two runs.


There was no respite from pace for the Ireland as McGrath and
Tait continued to probe the batsmen.


Middle-order batsman Andrew White suffered a nasty blow on the
helmet off a rising McGrath delivery before falling in the
bowler's next over, caught by Brad Hogg at mid-off.


Mooney, Kevin O'Brien and Australia-born Johnston offered a
little bit of resistance, but it was just not good enough.


O'Brien was caught by Brad Hodge off paceman Stuart Clark, who
had replaced Nathan Bracken from the side which defeated England
in the previous match.


Johnston dragged a Tait delivery on to his stumps to leave his
side tottering at 54-7. Ireland failed to cross the 100-mark as
Australia grabbed the last three wickets in quick succession.

