

Raphael Jacquelin of France fired a solid four-under-par 67 in
the second round of the China Open to open up a two-stroke lead
over Australian Adam Blyth on Friday.


The joint overnight leader, 32, who has been enjoying a good run
of form over the past two weeks, has a two-day total of seven-
under-par 135 at the par-71 Shanghai Silport Golf Club.


Hot on his trail is Blyth who also hit a 67 for lone second
position on a wind- swept day at the two million dollar event,
jointly sanctioned by the Asian Tour and European Tour.


Big-hitting Australian Scott Hend, who struck an eagle at the
par-five 18th, and Andres Romero of Argentina also fired matching
67s for joint third place with a 138 total.


Scotsman Simon Yates, currently ranked 35th on the Asian Tour's
Order of Merit, enjoyed a bogey-free day with five birdies for
fifth spot.


Jacquelin, who finished runner-up at the Portugal Open two weeks
ago, blazed the back nine with five birdies. On the turn, he shot
a birdie on the fifth hole and was six-under for the day before
two dropped shots at six and seven.


"I was playing really well and even at the end. I just missed the
drive on the seventh into the wind -- it was playing more
difficult," he said.


"Then I made a mistake with the third shot on the next. That was
the only mistake of the day."


Jacquelin, who turned pro in 1995, won his maiden European Tour
title at the 2005 Madrid Open.


Blyth has been in the forefront in the past two events on the
Asian Tour and with six birdies against two bogeys today, the 25
-year-old aims to play it cool over the weekend.


"It was not a technical change that I did but more of a mental
thing. I decided to chill out and just let things happen," he
said.


"Now, I want to enjoy the ride over the weekend. It's a nice
position to be in so I hope to have fun and stay positive."


Australia's Hend, a former US PGA Tour player, was steady off the
tee on the back nine with back-to-back birdies at 12 and 13
before his eagle at the 554-yard 18th.


"The eagle was the highlight of my round. I was feeling good
about my game. I used a driver straight up the middle there. I
was 227 yards to the pin and struck a two iron to about four feet
for the eagle," said Hend, runner-up at the Pakistan Open in
January.


China's Huang Ming-jie, who shared the first-round lead with
Jacquelin, shot a 76 to drop to a share of 25th. Zhang Lian-wei
and Thailand's Thongchai Jaidee shot 69 and 74 respectively to
lie in joint 34th.


"I was feeling tired after my first round performance and I had
to get up early this morning so it affected my game a little,"
said Huang.


China's top-ranked player Liang Wen-chong, who won last month's
Singapore Masters, squeezed into the weekend with his score of
five-over 147 right on the cut. Liang was joint 66th among 75
players who made it to the final rounds.

