

Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer warned Friday that Turkey's
secular system is under "unprecedented threat" from foreign and
local forces who also want to weaken the staunchly secularist
military.


"Turkey's political regime today faces a threat unprecedented
since the foundation of the Republic" in 1923, Sezer, a committed
secularist whose term expires in May, told a military academy
here in a speech released by his office.


"Domestic and foreign forces with a common objective are acting
together on this issue," he said, without giving names.


Attempts at weakening the secular system had increased over the
past 15-20 years, Sezer said.


He highlighted particularly increased opposition to a ban on the
Islamic headscarf in public offices and universities and what he
described as efforts to "install" graduates of religious schools
and Islamic sect members at "all state levels."


Hailing the military as the "protector and guarantor of the
secular Republic," Sezer said the army had become the target of
"internal and foreign forces" seeking to "erode its credibility
and make it inefficient."


At least part of Sezer's criticism appeared aimed at Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government, the offshoot of a
now-banned Islamist party which the army forced from power in
1997.


His warnings came amid tensions in Ankara over Erdogan's presumed
intention to succeed Sezer when the parliament elects a new
president next month.


Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) can easily elect
the candidate of its choice thanks to a strong parliamentary
majority. It says it will announce its candidate after the
application period starts Monday.


The AKP has disowned its roots, pledged commitment to secularism
and carried out a series of democracy reforms to boost Turkey's
bid to join the European Union. Yet, it has often come under fire
for still pursuing Islamist ambitions.


The party, most of whose members are practising Muslims, is
opposed to the headscarf ban but has failed to abolish it, wary
of the secularist elite.


It has made unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery,
restrict alcohol- serving places to special zones outside urban
centres and ease university access for graduates of high schools
training Muslim preachers.


Sezer has sent back to parliament several laws he deemed breaches
of secularism and often blocked the appointment of officials he
saw as Islamist government cronies.


AKP members, backed by liberals, say the interpretation of
secularism in Turkey is too restrictive and infringes on
religious freedoms and democracy.


In his lengthy speech, Sezer also argued that foreign forces
wanted to turn Turkey into a "moderate Islamic republic" under
the guise of encouraging democratisation.


"The moderate Islamic model can mean advancement for other
countries whic have adopted Islam, but for the Turkish Republic
it is ... a reactionary model," he said.


"Turkey can be a model for the region only as a secular,
democratic state," he said, warning that "moderate Islam will
inevitably turn into radical Islam."


He did not clarify what foreign forces he was referring to.


The United States has often upheld Turkey as a model of co-
habitation between Islam and democracy.


The EU has criticised the Turkish military's traditional
influence in politics and pressed for reforms to curb its powers.

