

A Russian opposition grouping has vowed to defy a ban on a
Saturday protest in one of Moscow's main squares, raising the
prospect of a showdown with police and rival demonstrators.


The Other Russia, a coalition of disparate opposition groups, was
denied permission to stage a march from Pushkin Square in the
city centre on the grounds that a pro-Kremlin youth movement had
already booked the site.


"The right to march and not just to demonstrate is guaranteed by
the constitution and no-one has the right to encroach upon it,"
march organiser and former world chess champion Garry Kasparov
told the Gazeta daily.


Despite the ban, Kasparov stressed that he would still attend the
"Dissenters' March" against President Vladimir Putin's policies.


Eduard Limonov, whose National Bolshevik Party, a radical anti-
Kremlin youth movement, is a key member of The Other Russia, was
equally defiant.


Limonov, whose organisation is banned by the authorities, said he
would go to Pushkin Square at midday Saturday "as a private
individual".


He said that representatives of the prosecutor's office
approached him in a cafe on Thursday and handed him a written
warning not to take part in the demonstration.


The request to march was refused by city authorities because the
pro-Kremlin Young Guard organisation had already been given
permission for a demonstration -- an explanation dismissed by The
Other Russia as an attempt to smother anti- Putin protest.


The Other Russia has held three protests this year, the last two
of which were broken up by police.


Kasparov said he hoped 7,000 would attend the march, while Moscow
police said 9,000 officers would be on duty.


Another organiser, former prime minister Mikhail Kasyanov,
condemned a letter he received Thursday warning him not to take
part in the demonstration, and also pledged to participate,


Central Moscow on Saturday will also see rallies by the liberal
SPS party and two ultra-nationalist, anti-immigrant
organisations, posing a formidable challenge to authorities.


The leader of the country's dominant political party, Boris
Gryzlov, said he was worried by the political undertones of The
Other Russia protest.


"I think (mass meetings) should be celebrations," the pro-Putin
United Russia leader said. "These protests that concern the
creation of political instability and pronouncements of their
interests -- this is dangerous."

