

Norway said Friday it would toughen ethical rules governing
investments in its giant state Pension Fund, and excluded bonds
from Myanmar in a first step.


The fund, which contains nearly all of the Norwegian state's
revenues from the country's booming oil industry, may exclude
bonds from countries targetted by UN sanctions or other
international initiatives supported by Norway, Finance Minister
Kristin Halvorsen said.


"We want to use our fund to influence the world to head down a
better path," she said as she presented a white book on the
Pension Fund, adding: "In this era of globalization, financial
holdings are the key to power and influence."


The fund, which invests in stocks and bonds and is one of the
richest in the world, was worth more than 236 billion euros (320
billion dollars) at the end of 2006.


Destined to finance future pension requirements, it is expected
to swell to 617 billion euros (836 billion dollars) over the next
10 years.


The sheer size of the fund gives Norway, the world's third-
largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia and Russia, considerable
influence, and a company or country barred from the list risks
seeing a domino effect among other investors.


The Norwegian government already keeps a close eye on the ethics
of the 3,400 companies in which the fund holds stakes.


Existing ethical guidelines bar the Pension Fund from investing
in "particularly inhumane" weapons manufacturers and in companies
known to be involved in large- scale human rights violations,
corruption, or environmental pollution.


A total of 22 companies have in recent years been barred from the
list, including arms producers such as Boeing, EADS, Thales,
Safran, Northrop and BAE Systems, as well as the world's largest
retailer Wal-Mart which is accused of violating employees' human
rights.


Earlier this week, the government announced it was divesting the
fund's stake in DRD Gold of South Africa because the company is
polluting at a gold mine in Papua New Guinea.


Halvorsen noted that exclusion from the Pension Fund was however
a last resort.


"We can encourage companies to change their behaviour from within
... by using our voting rights, by contacting their management
teams directly, by coordinating our efforts with other investors
... and by contacting authorities," she said.


On Friday, Halvorsen announced that bonds from Myanmar, which has
been governed by a military junta for several decades, would be
barred.


"The EU has imposed sanctions against Myanmar and the state bonds
issued by Myanmar will as a result be excluded," she said.


"Other countries could also be barred in the future," she said.

