

Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo on Friday offered an amnesty
for crimes committed as part of the country's civil conflict, as
foreign powers met here to discuss the peace process.


The amnesty, which will apply only to crimes involving national
security, is part of last month's historic peace agreement signed
between Gbagbo and rebel leader-turned prime minister Guillaume
Soro to reunite the country.


"Violations against state security and national defence committed
by Ivorians in the country or in exile between September 17, 2000
and April 12, are fully pardoned," the new law said.


It was announced as the International Working Group, made up of
the United Nations, African and Western diplomats, began talks in
Abidjan on how to respond to the peace deal, which sidelined the
original UN plan for Ivory Coast.


Head of the UN peacekeeping mission which has sponsored the
fragile peace process over the past few years, Abou Moussa said
the latest mediators' meeting had to seek a new approach to a
lasting peace in the former oasis of stability.


"The new political environment we are in... forces us to change
our mode of operation and to adopt a new approach to efforts to
stabilise this beautiful country," said Moussa at the start of
the talks.


Gbagbo and Soro secured a historic peace deal last month to end
the low-key but protracted civil conflict in this cocoa-rich
country, which has been politically and militarily divided into
two for the past four years.


Set up in October 2005, the mediators had been overseeing the
implementation of a UN-backed peace plan, but the scheme was set
aside when the protagonists sealed a new deal brokered by
neighbouring Burkina Faso leader Blaise Compaore.


The agreement gave Soro the post of prime minister and removed a
foreign-troop patrolled buffer zone which divided the country
into a rebel-held north and government-run south. It also
provides for the holding of elections this year.


Several diplomatic sources in Abidjan have said they believe that
Friday's meeting could be the working group's last.


The conflict in Ivory Coast dates from 2002 when Soro failed to
topple  Gbagbo in a coup bid.


Two years of talks laboured over issues such as disarmament and
the identification of voters, prerequisites for oft-delayed
polls.

