

President George W. Bush continues to support World Bank
president Paul Wolfowitz despite a scandal over favoritism for
his girlfriend and hopes he stays in his post, the White House
said Friday.


"The president fully supports Wolfowitz and wants him to continue
his service as World Bank president," White House spokesman Tony
Fratto said.


Wolfowitz, who was backed for the prestigious post by Bush in
2005, is fighting for his political life after World Bank
directors said they had not approved large pay raises for his
girlfriend Shaha Riza, a World Bank staffer.


As calls mounted for the former US deputy defense secretary to
resign, the White House stood by Wolfowitz, with spokeswoman Dana
Perino saying earlier Friday: "The president has confidence in
Paul Wolfowitz and his work."


"At the organization, he has worked to lift people out of poverty
around the world, he has focused his priorities on Africa, good
governance and how the World Bank can respond better and more
efficiently to crises around the world," she said.


After a day-long emergency meeting over the scandal late
Thursday, the World Bank's 24 executive directors issued a
statement detailing the findings of its investigation into the
row over Wolfowitz's Libyan-born partner.


More than 100 pages of documents released with the statement
revealed that on Wolfowitz's personal direction, Riza was given
raises that took her annual pay package to nearly 200,000 dollars
when she was reassigned from the World Bank to the US State
Department.


Riza remained on the World Bank payroll despite her move, which
was to forestall any conflicts of interest after Wolfowitz, 63,
took charge of the bank in June 2005.


"The executive directors will move expeditiously to reach a
conclusion on possible actions to take," the board's statement
said.


"In their consideration of the matter, the executive directors
will focus on all relevant governance implications for the bank."


Wolfowitz on Thursday apologized over the affair at the
development lender which handles its 20 billion dollar-plus in
loans each year around the world.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told
journalists.


"I will accept any remedies" proposed by the bank's board, he
added.

