

General Electric said Friday its first-quarter profit edged
higher on strong sales of equipment for aviation and the oil
industry and some improvement in its NBC entertainment unit.


The diversified conglomerate that produces jet engines,
locomotives, water treatment plants, medical equipment, has a
major finance arm and owns the media- entertainment giant NBC
Universal reported a profit of 4.5 billion dollars.


The rise was just two percent from a year ago but was up 10
percent based on continuing operations. The per-share profit
excluding one-time costs of 44 cents a share was in line with
Wall Street estimates.


The company said revenues increased six percent to 40.2 billion
dollars in the January-March period.


GE, often seen a proxy for the US economy, reported strong growth
in its infrastructure division that makes jet engines,
locomotives and power plant turbines.


It also got a lift from commercial finance operations, offsetting
weaker results in consumer finance, and made progress in results
for NBC Universal, which owns the NBC television network and
Hollywood's Universal studios.


"Infrastructure and Commercial Finance had strong quarters, and
combined with the continued turnaround at NBC Universal, we
delivered another quarter of double-digit EPS (earnings per
share) growth," GE chairman and chief executive Jeff Immelt said.


During the quarter GE set aside 600 million dollars for one-time
costs including a 200 million charge associated with an asbestos-
related legal ruling and 400 million of restructuring and other
charges.


Immelt said the company expected to "continue to deliver
consistent, double- digit earnings growth with expanding margins
and increasing returns in 2007" and he maintained the company's
previous forecasts for 2007.


Patrick O'Hare at Briefing.com said the report showed "steady,
and respectable growth for a company the size of GE" and that GE
was "attractively priced."


GE shares rose 30 cents to 35.48 dollars in morning trade.


The Connecticut-based company said its infrastructure unit
delivered a profit of 2.2 billion dollars in the quarter, up 28
percent from a year ago, as revenues rose 18 percent to 11.9
billion.


NBC Universal saw a six percent profit rise to 691 million
dollars even though revenues fell 22 percent to 3.5 billion.


The commercial finance arm showed a profit of 1.4 billion
dollars, up 21 percent, as revenues advanced 15 percent to 6.3
billion.


GE Money, the consumer finance division, had a profit of 851
million dollars, up only two percent, on revenues of 5.8 billion.

