

A French academic held against his will in Iran returned home on
Friday, saying he had not been mistreated during his 10-week
ordeal.


Stephane Dudoignon, 45, appeared in fine health as he stepped off
a plane at a Paris airport after Iranian authorities returned his
passport seized on January 30 during a trip to the volatile
province of Sistan-Baluchestan.


"I wasn't in jail," Dudoignon told reporters.


"Thanks to the support of my close ones, my Iranian family and
the French embassy, this stay took place under excellent
conditions, albeit not on the psychological and nervous level."


An expert on Islam and Central Asia, Dudoignon was briefly
detained by police and his passport seized after photographing a
procession of Muslim Shiites celebrating the holy day of Ashura
and the reaction of Sunni bystanders in the southeastern
province.


"I was more or less under house arrest. I did not have the right
to move out of the residency of my in-laws where I was staying. I
did not leave Tehran," said Dudoignon, who is married to an
Iranian.


The academic said his research into Sunni-Shiite relations drew
suspicion from Iranian authorities in Sistan-Baluchestan, a
province bordering Afghanistan and Pakistan.


"I was told that I was too interested in inter-communal conflicts
that have emerged in past years," said Dudoignon, a fluent Farsi
speaker and researcher at the National Center for Scientific
Research (CNRS).


Sistan-Baluchestan has a Sunni majority in Shiite-dominated Iran
and is home to the shadowy Sunni militant group Jundullah, which
claimed responsibility for a bomb attack in February that killed
11 Revolutionary Guards.


Iran suspects the United States and Britain of supporting Sunni
separatists there.


France sought for two months to quietly persuade Tehran to let
the academic go home at the same time as Britain was trying to
win the release of 15 navy personnel, and finally last week made
a public appeal to Iran to let him go.


Dudoignon said he was "worried that he would be linked" to the
British sailors detained at the same time. The 15 were released
on April 4.


"The two cases are distinct even if the policy behind it can be
considered similar," he said.


The academic said he planned to return to Iran soon and did not
anticipate any problems in getting a new visa.

