

Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo on Friday offered an amnesty
for crimes committed during the country's civil conflict, as
foreign powers met in Abidjan to discuss the peace process.


The amnesty, which will apply only to crimes involving national
security, is part of last month's historic peace agreement signed
between Gbagbo and rebel leader-turned prime minister Guillaume
Soro to reunite the country.


"Violations against state security and national defence committed
by Ivorians in the country or in exile between September 17, 2000
and April 12, are fully pardoned," the new law said.


It was announced as the International Working Group (GTI), made
up of UN, African and Western diplomats, began talks in Abidjan
on how to respond to the peace deal, which sidelined the original
UN plan for Ivory Coast.


The head of the UN peacekeeping mission which has sponsored the
fragile peace process over the past few years, Abou Moussa, said
the latest mediators' meeting had to seek "a new approach" to
help stabilise the country.


Gbagbo and Soro secured a landmark peace deal brokered by Burkina
Faso to end the low-key but protracted civil conflict in this
cocoa rich-country, which has been politically and militarily
divided for the past four years.


The agreement, which gave Soro the post of prime minister, also
allowed for the end of the geographical split of the country by
removing a foreign-patrolled buffer zone separating the rebel-
held north and government-run south.


The zone is to be gradually cleared starting Monday.


The new peace deal also enisages the drafting of voters' lists
and the holding of elections this year.


The conflict in Ivory Coast, which accounts for 40 percent of the
world's cocoa production, dates from 2002, when Soro failed to
topple Gbagbo in a coup bid.


Two years of mediation talks led by the UN, African Union and
South Africa among others, laboured over issues such as
disarmament and identification of voters.


The UN had deployed an 8,000-strong peacekeping force, assisted
by 3,500 French soldiers, to patrol a ceasefire line and prevent
fresh fighting.


Security Council officials flew into Ivory Coast this week to
determine how best the UN could contribute to the implementation
of the new peace deal.


Several diplomatic sources in Abidjan have said they believe that
Friday's meeting could be the working group's last.


Soro, who until months ago, fiercely criticised Gbagbo, is due to
make his first address to the nation since he took up office two
weeks ago.


Moussa said the new deal showed the political will of the arch-
foes "to appropriate the process ...and create a new partnership
for peace".


The mediating group comprises diplomats from the UN, African
Union, European Union, the organisation of French-speaking
countries, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank as
well as from neighbouring countries and the United States,
Britain and France.

