

Millions voted on Friday in India's most populous state of Uttar
Pradesh in the second round of staggered state assembly
elections, officials said.


The polls come halfway through the five-year team of the
Congress-led national government and will be closely watched as
an indicator of the popularity of Congress as well as the
opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).


Turnout was put at 46 percent of 16 million eligible voters, with
no incidents of violence reported.


Some 66,000 security personnel were deployed to ensure law and
order in the 58 constituencies where polling took place, said
A.K. Bishnoi, the chief electoral officer in the state capital
Lucknow.


"We have deployed a helicopter to monitor the situation on the
ground and we are happy the process went off peacefully," he
said.


Bishnoi had earlier described the conduct of the polls as a
"challenge," given the sheer scale of the task in a state of 180
million people which is dotted with illegal gun-makers and
suffers high crime.


Among the 881 candidates in the fray were 179 with criminal
records, according to data compiled by Uttar Pradesh Election
Watch, a non-governmental organisation founded by former police
officers.


"Some of them are even involved in heinous crimes like murder and
kidnapping," said Ishwar Chand Dwivedi, the head of the watchdog.


Opinion polls said Mayawati Kumari, a woman from India's
"untouchable" Dalit classes who now leads the Dalit-based Bahujan
Samaj Party, was marginally ahead of Uttar Pradesh's incumbent
chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav.


The Congress party was likely to better its record of 25 seats in
the 403 member state assembly, thanks to some valiant campaigning
by its chief Sonia Gandhi and her son and heir-apparent Rahul,
the polls said.


The surveys showed the BJP, upset by Congress in national
elections in 2004, was likely to do well in the state polls that
began April 7 and end on May 8.


Earlier this year, the BJP won state polls to the northern states
of Uttarakhand and Punjab.

