

A Zimbabwe court on Friday postponed the extradition hearing of
Briton Simon Mann over a coup plot in Equatorial Guinea to next
week, his lawyer said.


"The case has been remanded to Thursday next week and the hearing
is going to take place at Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison,"
lawyer Jonathan Samkange, told journalists after the case was
postponed Friday.


"Simon Mann will be testifying giving reasons why he is
challenging the plans to extradite him. Basically he is saying he
will not get a fair trial and he will be tortured like what
happended to his co-accused if taken to Equatorial Guinea.


"The state fears if he is brought to this court he may fly away
to England."


Mann and 61 other men were arrested when their plane landed at
Harare international airport in March 2004.


They were said to have been stopping off to pick up weapons en
route to Malabo to join an advance team led by South African Nick
du Toit, who was himself arrested and then sentenced to 34 years
in prison in Malabo.


The former officer in Britain's Special Air Service was handed a
seven-year term for the purchase of weapons that prosecutors said
were to be used to topple President Obiang Nguema, ruler of the
oil-rich west African state since 1979.


The sentence was later cut to four years.


Most of those arrested with Mann were released from a Zimbabwean
prison in 2005 and the Briton is due to be freed in May.


The case made headlines worldwide following the arrest in Cape
Town in August 2004 of Mark Thatcher, the wealthy son of former
British prime minister Margaret Thatcher, who allegedly helped
bankroll the coup bid.


Thatcher eventually pleaded guilty in a South African court to
unwittingly helping to finance the alleged coup and was fined
some 400,000 euros (510,000 dollars).


Samkange told AFP that Mann was writing memoirs covering his
career and prison experiences.


"I can confirm Simon Mann is writing an book covering his life,
his career, his friends and those who betrayed him," the lawyer
said.


He would not divulge some of the characters to feature in the
book.


Samkange said Mann was due for an operation for an undisclosed
condition but denied reports that he was on the verge of death.


"I can confirm he is sick but he is not dying as some people have
reported," the lawyer said.


"He's due for an operation but he wants to be treated at a
private hospital where he will pay the fees. The prison
authorities want him to be taken to a government hospital but he
says he would rather die than be taken to a government hospital
where the equipment is malfunctioning."

