

Cyprus on Friday condemned the detention of a Cypriot MEP at a
sovereign British military base on the island after he was
arrested during an official visit by a European parliament
delegation.


British bases police intercepted a mini-bus carrying a delegation
of nine Euro MPs to the south coast air base on Thursday,
boarding the bus to arrest Marios Matsakis and taking him away in
handcuffs.


"He is being detained in police custody to appear in court on May
15," British military spokesman Dennis Barnes told AFP after the
arrest during the delegation's visit to a controversial antenna
site at RAF Akrotiri.


"However he would be released on 500 pounds (1,166 dollars, 862
euros) bail if he chooses to pay it."


Government spokesman Christodoulos Pashardes said "strong
protests" had been made to Britain over the arrest which Cyprus
condemned, demanding his "immediate release."


British military authorities said Matsakis -- a well known anti-
bases campaigner -- had failed to pay his bail after being
released by a bases court last year on criminal damage charges.


In April 2006, Matsakis allegedly sprayed graffiti on military
vehicles and bases property.


In court on Thursday he refused to pay the outstanding 300 pounds
(700 dollars, 517 euros) bail, plus a 200-pound (466-dollar,
345-euro) non-payment penalty, saying he did not recognise the
bases court.


The judge said Matsakis should remain in custody until bail was
paid or until the next hearing.


But Dutch MEP Johannes Blokland, who led the European delegation,
called the arrest "unacceptable" and "shocking."


At a briefing in Brussels, European Commission spokesman Michael
Mann presented the dispute as a bilateral issue, as the
Commission tried to keep out of the row between two member
states.


"Military bases are different from other parts of the European
Union apparently, I am not  a lawyer," he told reporters.


Meanwhile, a British spokeswoman in Brussels said that under the
terms of Britain's original entry into the EU "it was decided
that sovereign bases would remain outside the EU".


Matsakis's young son and his partner Jacqueline Grivas visited
him on Friday after he was flown by army helicopter from Akrotiri
to a prison at Dhekelia garrison on the southeast coast.


"We have seen Marios, and he's not in very good shape and
stressed, and outraged at his illegal arrest and transfer by
helicopter," Grivas said.


Dhekelia assistant police chief Nicos Pantechis said Matsakis, a
pathologist by profession, had threatened to go on hunger strike.
"He's been seen by a doctor and is in good health, but what will
happen next I don't know," he said.


The British military said Matsakis was moved to "more comfortable
surroundings" equipped for longer-term detainees.


Barnes said there was the possibility of bringing the trial
forward, but witnesses have since left Cyprus and are thought to
be serving in Iraq or Afghanistan.


Cyprus President Tassos Papadopoulos said Nicosia doubted the
authority of British bases courts to try and convict Cypriots.


"The bases always support the position that they have their own
laws, courts and legal decisions," he said. "We question the
jurisdiction of these courts, but this issue should be fought
through the court and not by gestures."


Matsakis has campaigned to get the British military to leave
Cyprus and has been arrested several times. In 2001 his arrest
for protesting against Akrotiri's giant alleged "spy antennas"
sparked Greek Cypriot riots on the base.


Britain has had military bases on Cyprus, where some 10,000
military personnel and their families are stationed, since the
Mediterranean island's independence in 1960.

