

Lawmakers in staunchly Catholic Poland rejected on Friday a
handful of amendments seeking to anchor the country's anti-
abortion law, already among the strictest in Europe, in the
constitution.


Members of parliament first turned down a proposal by the
hardline Catholic League of Polish Families (LPR), which had
sought to enshrine the "right to life from the moment of
conception" in the constitution -- opening the way for a total
ban on abortion.


In a further round of voting, they rejected separate proposals by
conservative President Lech Kaczynski, who had sought to set
existing restrictive law in stone to prevent any liberalisation
by future administrations.


The LPR is a junior member of the Polish coalition government led
by Kaczynski's Law and Justice (PiS) party under his twin, Prime
Minister Jaroslaw Kaczysnki.


"I am saddened by the outcome," Jaroslaw Kaczynski said after the
session, although he recognised that "none of the proposals had a
chance."


"This represents a significant weakening of the protection of
life," he added.


The LPR, which only has 29 seats, managed to muster 165 votes for
its proposal.


Under Polish law, constitutional amendments must win backing from
two-thirds of those present in the chamber at the time of voting,
rather than the simple majority needed to pass ordinary
legislation.


That required the LPR to garner 276 votes, a near-impossibility
given that the coalition only commands 228 of the total 460 seats
in parliament.


Lech Kaczynski's proposals, meanwhile, won support from 269
lawmakers.


Poland, where more than 90 percent of the 38.2-million-strong
population are professed Roman Catholics, already has among the
toughest anti-abortion rules in Europe.


Liberal abortion laws were widespread in the communist bloc, but
Poland introduced tough new rules in 1993, four years after the
collapse of the former regime.


Abortion is currently only permitted in cases of rape, incest,
danger to the mother's life or irreversible malformation of the
foetus.


Doctors who break the law face a two-year jail term, although
women who have a termination do not face sanctions.


In the rest of the 27-nation EU, only Ireland and Malta have
similarly strict rules. Portugal recently liberalised its
legislation.


Opponents, including the left-wing and liberal opposition and
feminist groups, had said the constitutional drive was pointless.


They claimed it would simply strengthen Poland's already
flourishing underground abortion industry, which carries out
around 200,000 terminations a year.


Feminist campaigner Katarzyna Bratkowska, of the organisation "I
Choose For Myself," hailed the result.


"This is a victory for what remains of Polish democracy," she
said.


"We've won a battle but the war goes on. We'll only be satisfied
by a liberalisation of the current law."


Earlier Friday, dozens of PiS lawmakers had broken ranks and
demanded that the president withdraw his proposals, after
constitutional experts said the amendments were too vague to have
a real impact.


The rebels included the speaker of parliament Marek Jurek, a
kingpin of the most conservative wing of PiS.


Jurek, who is close to the Kaczynskis, had piloted moves to
strengthen the anti- abortion rules.


After Friday's result, Jurek announced that he planned to resign
as speaker, saying he accepted "personal responsibility."

