

Three Russian commandos who admitted murdering six Chechen
civilians were declared fugitives Friday after failing to appear
in court for the closing sessions of their trial.


Judge Nikolai Gulko ordered the military prosecutor to put the
servicemen on the wanted list after they missed a second
consecutive session at the military court in Rostov-on-Don,
southern Russia, footage from the courtroom on NTV television
showed.


Prosecutors in the trial, seen as a test case for attempts to
punish war crimes in Chechnya, last week demanded prison terms of
18-23 years for the soldiers, who are from the army's secretive
Main Intelligence Directorate, known in Russia as GRU.


Defence lawyers were due to make closing arguments this week.


The three GRU men admit to shooting six Chechens, including a
pregnant woman, on a mountain road in southern Chechnya in
January 2002, but say they are innocent because they were
following orders.


Lawyers for the trio said Friday that they had no idea where
their clients are currently located and that their mobile phones
have been disconnected, Russian news agencies reported.


A fourth defendant -- a major who says he relayed the fatal order
delivered over the radio from a higher-ranking officer -- did
appear in court. The trial has now been suspended until May 24.


Murat Musayev, a lawyer for the victims' relatives, said they had
"repeatedly asked for the accused to be limited in their
movements" during the trial.


This is the third trial, following two successive acquittals by
juries in Rostov-on-Don. Those decisions were overturned by
higher courts on technicalities.


The case has been seen as a test of Russia's ability to confront
what human rights experts say have been mass war crimes in
Chechnya since troops first tried to crush an independence
rebellion in 1994.


The incident near the Chechen village of Dai began when the GRU
men, led by Captain Eduard Ulman, mistakenly opened fire on a car
packed with civilians, killing one and wounding two.


After delivering first aid and radioing their superiors, the
soldiers later shot the five survivors in cold blood. The GRU
operatives say this was ordered over the radio in an attempt to
wipe out any witnesses to the original mistake.


Only a handful of Russian soldiers or officers have faced trial,
despite widespread accusations of torture, summary executions and
indiscriminate bombardment of civilian areas during the fighting
in Chechnya.


Growing numbers of Chechens are addressing the European Court of
Human Rights in Strasbourg. Some 200 cases concerning Chechnya
are currently pending at the court, half of them relating to
people who disappeared.


The episode has also put the spotlight on the relatively new
concept of jury trials in Russia, legalised in 1993 but only
introduced nationwide from 2003. The GRU members' case is now
being tried by a panel of three judges, with no jury.

