

Australia captain Ricky Ponting basked in his team's 25-match
unbeaten World Cup run on Friday and promised more scintillating
cricket to come.


Australia stormed into the World Cup semi-finals on Friday with a
nine-wicket win over Ireland which was wrapped up before lunch.


It also gave the two-time defending champions their 19th
successive World Cup win and their 25th game overall unbeaten in
the competition, a run stretching back to 1999 when they lost to
Pakistan in Leeds.


The only non-victory in that run was the famous tied semi-final
against South Africa in the 1999 tournament.


"We are on a really good run at the moment," said Ponting.


"It's all a matter of the attitude being right for the rest of
this tournament and you should see some more good cricket from
us.


"I think we've got a good record over the years of stringing
together consecutive wins, whether it be Test matches or one-day
internationals."


Australia, the only team in the Caribbean with a 100-percent
record, have two more Super Eights matches to play against Sri
Lanka on Monday and New Zealand on April 20, both in Grenada.


"It's really the business end of the World Cup now," said
Ponting.


"We've achieved what we've wanted to achieve so far in this
tournament, especially out of today's game."


Ireland were completely outclassed by Australia and were reduced
to 12-4 at one stage as Glenn McGrath and Shain Tait went on to
take three wickets each.


Ireland captain Trent Johnston acknowledged his side were always
going to struggle.


"I knew it was going be tough. They're not two-time world
champions going for a third for nothing," said the Australian-
born Johnston who took the only wicket to fall when he clean-
bowled Adam Gilchrist.


"We knew we had to play out of our skins and they had to have a
pretty poor day for us to be competitive. You can only learn form
that and hopefully a lot of the guys can take away from that."


Michael Hussey, who was promoted to open the batting for
Australia, refused to contemplate talk of a third successive
World Cup title.


"We've got a long way to go before we make the final," said
Hussey who made an unbeaten 30.


"I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves. We've got two
very tough Super Eights games - against Sri Lanka and New Zealand
- left before we can even talk about the semi-finals."


Hussey was happy to get rare time in the middle on Friday.


"It was a great opportunity to get a hit, chasing such a low
score. I really enjoyed it," he said.


"I played pretty well. The pitch had good pace and bounce and you
need a little time to get used to it but once you did it was
coming on beautifully."

