

Australia fast bowlers Glenn McGrath and Shaun Tait proved too
hot to handle for debutants Ireland, who crashed to 91 all out in
a World Cup Super Eights match here on Friday.


The formidable duo of McGrath (3-17) and Tait (3-39) reduced the
match to a no- contest in less than five overs when they shared
four wickets to send the Cup debutants reeling to 12-4 on a pitch
having pace, bounce and movement.


Australia need to win this game to book a place in the last-four,
an easy task after Ireland's first batting failure in the second
round.


The defending champions have eight points from four matches.


Ireland, who gave a good account of themsleves in the previous
Super Eights games, were overawed by the occasion for the first
time as they looked extremely vulnerable against quality pace
after being put in to bat.


John Mooney (23), Kevin O'Brien (16) and skipper Trent Johnston
(17) were the only batsmen to reach double-figures in a brittle
batting display lasting just 30 overs.


The carnage began in the opening over when veteran McGrath
brought one in sharply to rattle the stumps of Australian-born
Jeremy Bray. The next four overs only added to Ireland's batting
woes.


Tait, improving with every match, bowled at a lively pace on a
helpful track and was on a hat-trick in only his second over when
he trapped opener William Porterfield leg-before and bowled Niall
O'Brien.


Wickets continued to tumble as McGrath had Eion Morgan caught by
Matthew Hayden in the slips, the first four Irish batsmen
contributing just two runs.


There was no respite as McGrath and Tait continued to probe the
batsmen during their opening spells.


Middle-order batsman Andrew White suffered a nasty blow on the
helmet off a rising McGrath delivery before falling in the
bowler's next over, caught by Brad Hogg at mid-off.


Mooney, Kevin O'Brien and Australia-born Johnston offered a
little bit of resistance, but it was just not good enough.


O'Brien was caught by Brad Hodge off paceman Stuart Clark, who
had replaced Nathan Bracken from the side which defeated England
in the previous match.


Johnston dragged a Tait delivery on to his stumps to leave his
side tottering at 54-7. Ireland failed to cross the 100-mark as
Australia grabbed the last three wickets in quick succession.

