

Finnish rookie Heikki Kovalainen downplayed Renault's poor
showing in Friday's practice session for Sunday's Formula One
Bahrain Grand Prix at the Sakhir circuit.


Kovalainen and Italian pilot Giancarlo Fisichella ended Friday's
two practice sessions in 12th and 15th place respectively to
continue a slow start to the Championship for Renault, the
winners of the past two constructors titles.


Much of the blame for the French teams current position of eighth
in the standings with just four points from the opening two races
has been aimed at the enforced tyre switch from Michelin to
Bridgestone.


However Kovalainen is optimistic that the team can be
surprisingly competitive in Bahrain following their early
showing.


"The final positions look worse than they did last week, but I
think that the feeling about our competitiveness is much better,"
the Finn said.


"The car is better to drive than last week, and the changes we
made definitely took us in the right direction during the two
practice sessions.


"I am feeling more comfortable as well, so all in all I am quite
happy. Saturday will be tough, but that is the situation we are
in at the moment, and we will be fighting hard to get into the
final round of qualifying."


Italian veteran Fisichella - who is the number one driver in the
team now that Spain's two-time world champion Fernando Alonso has
decamped to McClaren- Mercedes - also shared his teammate's
buoyancy ahead of Saturday's qualifying session.


"My long run in the second session was very consistent and the
feeling with the car was good," said Fisichella.


"And then, on my quick lap at the end, I ran wide, so I know
there is more performance to come over a single lap.


"The car felt more consistent to drive, but it felt good on
Friday last week as well - then we struggled in qualifying.


"So our challenge will be to produce a good level of performance
tomorrow. It will still be a very close fight to get into the top
ten, but I think we had a good day today, and hopefully that can
help us to a better result tomorrow."

