

Finland's Kimi Raikkonen maintained Ferrari's superiority in the
second practice Friday for Sunday's Bahrain Grand Prix near
Manama.


The former McLaren Mercedes driver was over half-a-second quicker
than his rivals in the opening practice session and finished the
afternoon again on top of the time-sheets to stake his claim for
victory on Sunday.


Raikkonen clocked a best time of one minute 33.527secs to finish
0.013seconds ahead of British rookie Lewis Hamilton in the
McLaren-Mercedes. Hamilton claimed the second best time late in
the session as track temperatures again topped 45 degrees
Celsius.


Ferrari showed that they have clearly regained the pace that
swept Raikkonen to victory in the opening race in Australia,
proving that the Finn's compromised third place finish in
Malaysia, amid fears his engine would not last the race, was a
minor glitch.


Poland's Robert Kubica was third fastest in the second 90-minute
session for BMW-Sauber, though times can be misleading with the
drivers testing out the two hard and soft compounds of tyre they
have to use in the race.


Raikkonen's team-mate Brazilian Felipe Massa posted the fourth
best time with McLaren's double world drivers champion Fernando
Alonso fifth quickest, again slower than his younger team-mate.


Britain's Jenson Button saw his disappointing start to the season
continue when his Honda engine spectacularly blew up with less
than 30 minutes left in the session.


Button skidded to the side of the track as flames burst from his
engine. The Ferrari of Massa was following close behind and was
sent sliding as he hit a patch of oil that had poured from the
engine.


The Brazilian managed to continue while, as Button made his way
back to the pits, his car started rolling back towards the
circuit having been parked on an incline only to stop just off
the edge of the track.


Button looks set to require an engine change that would
subsequently mean he will receive a 10-place grid penalty for
Sunday's race.


Another Briton involved in a controversial incident was David
Coulthard, who came within inches of hitting a male bystander in
the pit-lane who had strayed too close to his Red Bull car as he
drove down the pits. The Scot finished ninth fastest.


The session was also memorable for drivers showing their
frustration.


Italians Jarno Trulli and Giancarlo Fisichella were seen shaking
their fists at slower cars, and Raikkonen raising a middle finger
in the direction of a Toro Rosso.

