

Libya will host an international conference on the war-torn
Sudanese region of Darfur later this month, a senior Libyan
official said on Friday.


"A conference on Darfur will take place on April 28 with
representatives of the United States, Britain, Sudan, Chad,
Eritrea, the African Union and European Union," Libya's deputy
foreign minister Ali Abdel Salam Triki told reporters.


He did not specify the level of participation but said US Deputy
Secretary of State John Negroponte was expected in Libya on April
17 for talks focusing on Sudan and Somalia, both riven by bloody
conflicts.


Negroponte is currently in Sudan pressing Khartoum to accept a
hybrid peacekeeping force of UN and African Union forces to stem
violence that has steadily escalated since the Darfur conflict
erupted in 2003.


The UN estimates that at least 200,000 people have been killed in
the conflict which threatens to involve neighbouring Chad and
which the under-equipped 7,000 troops of the African Union have
been unable to contain..


Negroponte's visit comes after the United States held off on a
decision to impose unilateral sanctions against Sudan to give UN
chief Ban Ki-moon a last chance to persuade Khartoum to allow UN
peacekeepers into Darfur.


Ban on April 2 asked for an additional two to four weeks to
pressure Sudan's opposition to the UN's planned deployment of a
joint force of some 20,000 troops to Darfur before turning to
sanctions.


Khartoum, whose troops and allied Janjawed militia have been
blamed by aid agencies for widespread killing, rapes and burning
of villages in Darfur, has opposed any UN military force
deployment, other than logistical.


On Monday after talks involving UN, AU and Sudanese government
officials in Addis Ababa over a three-stage plan for
international peacekeeping in Darfur, Sudan agreed to allow the
UN to start sending reinforcements to the AU troops.


Ban said he would hold key talks on Monday and Tuesday with AU
Commission chairman Alpha Oumar Konare on the final phase of the
plan expected to culminate in the deployment of a 20,000-strong
joint UN-AU force in Darfur.

