

The US trade deficit saw a modest decline in February as the
balance with China improved, data showed Friday, but some
analysts said a drop in US exports raised doubts about global
economic growth.


The deficit fell slightly to 58.4 billion dollars in February
from 58.9 billion in January, the Commerce Department reported.
The figure was a bit better than the average analyst estimate of
a deficit of 60.5 billion dollars.


The deficit for the first two months of the year was 117.3
billion dollars, down about nine percent from a year ago and
raising hopes that the string of ever- increasing deficits may be
easing.


The politically sensitive deficit with China fell 13.3 percent
from a month earlier to 18.4 billion dollars. Despite the drop,
this still represents about a third of the overall deficit.


Exports to China rose 6.1 percent to 4.63 billion dollars while
imports from the Asian powerhouse declined 10 percent to 23
billion dollars.


Another factor in the lower trade gap was a drop in oil costs,
which pushed the petroleum deficit down to the lowest level since
June 2005. The average cost of a barrel of oil was 50.71 dollars
in February, but has risen since then, suggesting the deficit
could rebound.


Even though the trade picture improved with China, the gap with
Japan rose 8.6 percent to 7.06 billion dollars; exports fell 3.6
percent to 4.8 billion dollars and imports rose 3.3 percent to
11.9 billion dollars.


The deficit with the European Union fell 2.2 percent to 6.4
billion dollars and with Canada slid 29 percent to 4.8 billion.


Overall, imports fell 1.7 percent to 182.4 billion dollars while
exports declined 2.2 percent to 124 billion.


Jason Schenker, economist at Wachovia Securities, said he had
been expecting a narrowing of the deficit but that the February
report showed both exports and imports slowing.


"This could be a sign of slowing global growth," he said.


Robert Brusca of FAO Economics echoed those sentiments, saying US
exports failed to pick up despite a weaker dollar.


"We must therefore conclude that the weakness in US exports
reflects weakness abroad," Brusca said.


"Despite all the upbeat forecasts on Europe and the IMF's
(International Monetary Fund's) recent missive on growth, US
exports -- a real world litmus test -- tell us that activity is
waning in the markets into which the US sells its goods."


But Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, said he
believes the pace of exports will increase and cautioned against
reading too much into monthly variations that can be influenced
by factors such as aircraft orders.


"There are monthly variations, but the trend has been for
stronger exports and we expect that to continue," Behravesh said.


"Exports will continue to grow strongly, thanks to robust growth
overseas and a weaker dollar," he added.


Behravesh said the trade picture with China appears to have
turned a corner as the Asian nation's wealth grows and the yuan
is allowed to gradually move higher.


"China is allowing its currency to appreciate five to seven
percent a year," he said. "If they keep this up we could see a
substantial appreciation."


Behravesh said the latest round of US trade sanctions imposed on
China is unlikely to curb trade unless it develops into a broader
form of protectionism.


"Unless more protectionist actions are taken, we won't see a
worsening of the trade flows," he said.


"There is no doubt that as Chinese people become wealthier they
will buy goods from all over the world including the US."

