

The United States and Ukraine are cooperating on missile defense
issues, but Washington has not sought Kiev's involvement in a
controversial plan to deploy anti-missile interceptors in eastern
Europe, a US official said Friday.


The discussions with Ukraine concern technological issues and
relate to the former Soviet republic's experience and capacities
as a one-time base for the Soviet Union's nuclear missile force,
the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.


"People have always talked to the Ukrainians because they, like
the Kazakhs, have the actual ability to throw things into space,"
the official said.


The official denied press reports in Ukraine and Russia that
Washington had sought Ukraine's involvement in a project to place
anti-missile radar and interceptors in eastern Europe -- a plan
that has drawn sharp protests from Moscow.


"That's just Poland and the Czech Republic, that's the only
people we're negotiating with," the official said.


Washington wants to build a radar system in the Czech Republic
and put missiles in neighboring Poland to defend against what it
says are potential attacks from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Ukraine's pro-Western President Viktor Yushchenko also said
Thursday that his country was not considering hosting any
elements of a US anti-missile shield.


"The question has not been put to us and Ukraine does not intend
to examine it," he told journalists.


The level of Ukraine's integration with the NATO alliance is one
of the key issues fuelling a political stand-off between pro-
Russian and pro-Western politicians in the ex-Soviet republic.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and other officials have
adamantly denied that the anti-missile shield is aimed at
containing Russia or undermining its military deterrence
capabilities.


The issue is expected to figure prominently when Rice meets her
Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, on the sidelines of a NATO
meeting later this month in Norway, officials said.


The official said the press reports about Ukraine appeared to
have been based on testimony in Congress late last month by a
deputy assistant secretary of defense, Brian Green, the
Pentagon's point man for "strategic capabilities".


Speaking to a House of Representatives committee, Green listed
Ukraine among six countries with which Washington is "holding
discussions or working on technology efforts with" concerning
missile defense issues.


The other five were France, Germany, India, the Netherlands and
Spain.


Green did not mention Ukraine as part of the separate effort to
develop a missile defense shield based in Poland and the Czech
Republic.


After the disintegration of the Soviet Union, Ukraine found
itself in possession of the world's third largest nuclear
arsenal, and about 30 percent of the Soviet military industry,
according to GlobalSecurity.org.

