

A book by Pope Benedict XVI to appear in Italian, German and
Polish stores on Monday is billed as his answer to popular
publications such as Dan Brown's best- selling "The Da Vinci
Code."


Journalists on Friday received advance copies of the Italian
edition of "Jesus of Nazareth," which attempts to reconcile the
historical figure of Jesus with that of the Gospels.


In the work, Benedict laments "the worst books, which destroy the
figure of Jesus and dismantle faith, filled with the supposed
results" of scriptural study -- a clear alllusion to "The Da
Vinci Code," which was harshly criticised by the Roman Catholic
Church.


"The interpretation of the Bible can become an instrument of the
Antichrist" if it goes down mistaken paths, he warned.


The pope, a respected theologian, also denounces "the temptation
to interpret Christianity as a recipe for progress and to
consider the quest for the common well-being to be the true goal
of all religions."


The book is being translated into 17 other languages, and will
soon be available in Latin America, where books by Spanish Jesuit
liberation theologian Jon Sobrino were recently condemned by the
Vatican.


"Wherever God is considered a secondary dimension that you can
put aside temporarily or lastingly in the name of more important
things, these supposedly more important things fail," the pope
writes.


"The negative experience of Marxism is not the only (experience)
that has shown us that," he added.


The Vatican takes issue with Sobrino for stressing Christ's
humanity over his divine dimension, and for presenting Jesus as a
figure who was involved in social causes while ignoring his
redemptive role.


The book is full of references to problems of the modern world,
from the Chernobyl nuclear disaster -- which he said was an
example of what can happen when a human endeavour "is not
illuminated by God" -- to African peoples who are "robbed and
looted" both materially and spiritually to benefit a Western
"lifestyle."


The pope began writing the book in 2003 when he was Cardinal
Joseph Ratzinger and headed the Vatican's doctrinal enforcement
body.


He asserts that his account offers a "theological interpretation
of the Bible without abandoning historical rigour."


A second volume will concern the birth of Jesus and "the mystery
of his passion, death and resurrection," according to the Italian
publisher, Rizzoli.


Benedict states in the new book's foreword that it is "absolutely
not" part of the papal Magisterium -- or infallible teachings --
but simply an "expression of (his) personal research."


"Everyone is free, then, to contradict me," he wrote.

