

The price of crude oil reached the highest level since September
in London trading this week as the market worried about tight US
stockpiles of motor fuel heading into the peak demand season.


Palladium was an unlikely star performer among precious metals,
with its price approaching a one-year high.


Lead and nickel notched up further historic records amid
dwindling stockpiles.


Friday's prices are compared with those recorded late on Thursday
of the previous week. Markets had shut on Friday, April 6 owing
to the Easter festivities.


OIL: The price of Brent North Sea crude struck almost 70 dollars
on supply concerns, ending the week positively after a slump on
Monday.


Brent hit a seven-month high of 69.59 dollars a barrel Friday on
concerns that crude oil supplies might be insufficient to meet
demand.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, breached 64 dollars but ended the week lower.


All eyes are on the health of US gasoline stockpiles, which are a
crucial focus for the market ahead of the US driving season.


The peak-demand season for motor fuel starts next month and sees
many Americans hit the roads for their summer vacations.


Inventories of US gasoline, or petrol, plunged by 5.5 million
barrels to 199.7 million in the week to April 6, the US
Department of Energy reported on Wednesday.


Analysts had forecast a lighter drop of 1.4 million barrels.


"People are looking at the strong demand for gasoline in the US,"
said Tetsu Emori, chief commodities strategist at Mitsui Bussan
Futures.


Emori added that gasoline demand in the US market was 1.9 percent
higher than a year ago.


"The gasoline inventories drawdown is too fast and much higher
than last year," he noted.


Meanwhile on Thursday, the International Energy Agency warned
that the OPEC oil producers' group might have cut its production
too much, with insufficient current output eroding world stock
levels.


The 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
decided to cut its production twice at the end of last year to
support prices that were falling at the time.


Crude futures meanwhile ended the week strongly after slumping on
Monday.


The New York contract had dived 2.77 dollars and Brent shed 1.28
dollars on Monday, as investors banked profits in light Easter
trade.


However, they began rebounding Tuesday as key crude producer Iran
again tested Western nerves.


Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of crude, on Tuesday
pledged to further expand its nuclear drive after announcing that
its activities had entered an industrial phase, sparking new
criticism from the West and renewed calls for negotiation.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appears in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran could disrupt its oil exports should
it be hit harder.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in May rose to 69.16 dollars, from 68.10 dollars on
Thursday of the previous week.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in May dipped to
63.90 dollars from 64.14 dollars.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Palladium prices reached 374 dollars an
ounce -- the highest level since mid-May 2006.


"Palladium is rising on technical factors more than anything
else," UBS analyst John Reade said.


"It's not driven by underlying fundamentals because it's in
oversupply," Standard Chartered analyst Helen Henton said.


Platinum, meanwhile, rose to 1,273.50 dollars an ounce, the
highest point since November.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum increased
to 1,269 dollars an ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,251
dollars on Thursday of the previous week.


Palladium climbed to 371.50 dollars an ounce, from 350.50
dollars.


GOLD: The price of gold broke through 680 dollars an ounce,
helped by a weaker dollar and rise in oil prices.


A struggling dollar increases demand for gold since it becomes
cheaper for buyers using other currencies.


Gold, meanwhile, is seen as a safe store of value in times of
high inflation, which is often fueled by oil price increases.


On the London Bullion Market, gold prices rose to 681.75 dollars
an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 673.50 dollars on Thursday
of the previous week.


SILVER: Silver prices rallied in the wake of gold, briefly going
above 14.0 dollars an ounce.


"The successful clearance should enable a swift rally towards
14.65 dollars," said James Moore of TheBullionDesk.com.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices gained to 13.88
dollars an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 13.58 dollars on
Thursday of the previous week.


BASE METALS: Base metals jumped higher, with new records for lead
and nickel amid concerns over low stockpiles and fierce demand,
but pared gains towards the end of the week on profit-taking.


"Base metals prices are firmer ... (and) inventory drawdowns
across the board are supportive," Barclays Capital analysts said.


Nickel, used to help prevent corrosion, struck a record high of
50,150 dollars a tonne in London trading. It was the highest
reading since the start of nickel's quotation on the London Metal
Exchange (LME) in 1979.


A tonne of lead, meanwhile, also hit an historic high of 2,045
dollars.


Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal Exchange
(LME) rose to 7,970 dollars per tonne -- the highest reading
since September last year.


"Copper inventories generally stand below the long-term trend in
the second quarter. This is one reason for the current price
support," Calyon analyst Michael Widmer said.


"In addition, Chinese imports will continue to grow strongly."


Copper is used primarily in plumbing and the manufacture of
electrical cables.


On Friday, three-month copper prices surged to 7,800.50 dollars a
tonne on the LME, from 7,411 dollars on Thursday of the previous
week.


Three-month aluminium prices slipped to 2,805.50 dollars a tonne
from 2,840 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices jumped to 49,900 dollars a tonne from
49,505 dollars.


Three-month lead prices advanced to 2,025 dollars a tonne from
1,990 dollars.


Three-month zinc prices climbed to 3,505.5 dollars a tonne from
3,401 dollars.


Three-month tin prices increased to 14,350 dollars a tonne from
14,150 dollars.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Soya prices fell, while grains advanced as the
market focused on weather conditions.


By Friday on the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of wheat for
May delivery gained to 4.83 dollars a bushel, from 4.45 dollars
on Thursday of the previous week.


Maize for May delivery rose to 3.69 dollars a bushel, from 3.66
dollars.


May-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- dropped to 7.45
dollars, from 7.61 dollars.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price per tonne of
wheat for May delivery jumped to 100.00 pounds, compared with
87.95 pounds for wheat for November. The November contract had
been the most traded contract the previous week.


COFFEE: Coffee prices rose on buoyant investor sentiment.


"London is currently being supported by New York Arabica coffee
as current US market sentiment suggests that coffee prices are
bottoming out after recent weakness," Sucden analyst Michael
Davies said.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for May delivery rose to
1,579 dollars a tonne, from 1,542 dollars on Thursday of the
previous week.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for May delivery increased to 112.95 US
cents a pound, from 111.25 cents.


COCOA: Cocoa prices fell further as dealers cashed in their
profits, but losses were capped by supply concerns.


"Fundamentally the outlook for cocoa remains positive on the back
of strong demand while global supplies are tight," Davies said.


"Concern remains about dry conditions in West African growing
regions," he added.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for May delivery
dropped to 1,002 pounds a tonne, from 1,038 pounds on Thursday of
the previous week.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the May contract fell to
1,865 dollars a tonne, from 1,914 dollars.


SUGAR: Sugar prices rebounded in London on strong trade buying
ahead of the expiry of May's contract on Friday.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price per tonne of white sugar for
August delivery advanced to 325.50 dollars, compared with 314.80
dollars on Thursday of the previous week.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
increased to 9.99 US cents a pound, from 9.87 cents.

