

Discovery Channel's Dirk Demol admits he is still trying to get
over the disappointment of narrowly missing out on finally
winning the mythical one-day classic Paris-Roubaix, at least as a
team manager.


The 259km epic known as the 'Hell of the North' is held this
Sunday, and Demol, who won the race in 1988, is hoping a timely
victory for either Tomas Vaitkus or Vladimir Gusev will help
erase the nightmare of last year.


Their usual main contender, George Hincapie, will not be
competing in his favourite race this year due to a wrist injury
he picked up at the Tour of California in late February.


In a dramatic 2006 edition the big New Yorker was in great form
and in contention until his bike steerer broke late in the race
and he crashed, sustaining collarbone and shoulder blade
injuries.


Discovery still had two riders at the front, Leif Hoste and
Gusev, but they were among the three men, the other being Peter
Van Petegem, who were later disqualified for breaching a closed
railway level crossing in the final 10km.


Demol knows all about the difficulty of the race whose
cobblestone sections can cause all kinds of problems - whether
the weather is wet or dry - having stunned the favourites to win
the race himself in 1988.


With Hincapie missing, Demol admits the Discovery boys have less
expectations than last year.


"Last year was a major disappointment, maybe the biggest of my
career as a team manager," said Demol, admitting Hincapie's
setback after the notorious Arenberg forest cobbled section
changed everything for the team.


"After the (Arenberg) forest section, it was all going great for
us, then George's crash changed everything. I had never seen him
so confident.


"We still have Gusev and Hoste, both great riders, up there then
Gusev crashed."


Hoste went on to finish second, ahead of Belgian Van Petegem and
Gusev, who finished fourth. However all three riders were later
disqualified for their level crossing infringement.


Hoste, who finished runner-up in the Tour of Flanders for the
third time last week, has since moved to the Predictor-Lotto
team.


Along with Hincapie's absence, that takes two possible contenders
out of the equation for Discovery. Demol is now looking to Gusev
and Vaitkus, who finished fifth and sixth respectively in last
Sunday's classic.


"We're not as strong as last year, that's for sure. But in the
Tour of Flanders we got fifth and sixth place, which isn't bad at
all," added Demol.


"We also have (Stijn) Devolder, and if he's on a good day you
never know. But of course Hincapie is a big absence for us.


"I spoke to him on the phone last week and he was really down not
to be coming here. He won't be watching on television, it will be
too difficult."

