

Exiled Russian multi-millionaire Boris Berezovsky called Friday
for "direct action" to overthrow President Vladimir Putin,
threatening to aggravate already tense ties between London and
Moscow.


But the tycoon tempered an earlier call for the use of "force" to
oust Putin, saying he did not support violent means, after both
Russia and Britain condemned his initial comments and Moscow
renewed a call for his extradition.


"Elections are not a viable means of ensuring democratic change
in Russia. Therefore I do support using other methods to push for
a change back towards democracy," he said.


"However, I wish to make very clear that all of these methods
would be bloodless...I do support direct action. I do not
advocate or support violence."


His comments came in a statement to "clarify" remarks in a
newspaper interview in which he called for the use of force --
triggering immediate denunciations from Moscow and London.


The British-based Russian tycoon, who fled his homeland in 2000,
told the Guardian daily that the current Kremlin regime could not
be ousted democratically and there was no other option but force.


"We need to use force to change this regime...It isn't possible
to change this regime through democratic means," he said. "There
can be no change without force, pressure."


In particular he said he was in contact with certain elite people
in Russia, and was involved in financing. Asked by the newspaper
if he was fomenting a revolution, he said: "You are absolutely
correct."


The British government -- whose relations with Russia were
seriously strained by former spy Alexander Litvinenko's murder in
London last year -- immediately denounced the remarks.


"We deplore any call for the violent overthrow of a sovereign
state. We expect everyone living or working in or visiting the
UK, whatever their status, to obey our laws," said a ministry
spokesman.


And Russian authorities immediately renewed a request for Britain
to extradite Berezovsky.


"Calls for the violent overthrow of the political authorities are
sufficient grounds to undertake the relevant measures," Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by the Interfax news
agency.


"I have given the order to open a criminal case insofar as he
openly called for the overthrow of the constitutional authorities
in Russia," Prosecutor General Yury Chaika told journalists in
Moscow.


Berezovsky, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003, and London
has repeatedly rejected Moscow's extradition requests.


Lavrov said Friday the exiled businessman was "crudely abusing"
his status as a political refugee and "undertaking actions which
under British legislation demand his extradition."


The Russian oligarch was questioned late last month as part of
Russia's ongoing probe into Litvinenko's murder by radioactive
poisoning in November, with London police asking questions on
behalf of Russian investigators.


Berezovsky was among those who pointed the finger firmly at
Moscow, a charge Russia repeatedly denied but which has added to
growing strains between the Kremlin and London, as well as with
other Western governments.

