

A corruption scandal which rocked Italy's Serie A to its
foundations last season has taken a new twist after public
prosecutors in Naples closed their investigation by making fresh
accusations.


Italian giants Juventus were stripped of their last two league
titles and demoted to Serie B with a penalty of nine points after
being found guilty of match-fixing in last summer's scandal.


AC Milan, Lazio, Fiorentina and Reggina were also implicated in
the affair, but escaped with only points penalties for the
beginning of the 2006-2007 Serie A season.


On Thursday prosecutors, this time dealing with the purely legal
side of the affair, named 48 people, five of whom were not
questioned in the initial investigation, they suspect of
wrongdoing.


Another club has also now been implicated. Serie A side Messina
is suspected of being involved in match-fixing, although they
have flatly rejected any accusations of involvement.


"We have nothing to do with this scandal. And we have always
operated with complete legality and tranparency," Messina
president Pietro Franza was quoted as saying by Italian news
agency Ansa.


Former Juventus general director Luciano Moggi, who stood accused
of setting up a network in an attempt to influence the outcome of
matches, remains a key suspect as well as Juventus official
Antonio Giraudo.


Twenty-five referees and linesemen, 18 of whom are still working
in the Italian league, also remain under suspicion according to
prosecutors.


Italy's national referees' commission reacted to the news by
suspending two referees and two linesmen who were supposed to
officiate at second division matches this weekend.


Prosecutors also pointed the finger at a total of 39 matches they
suspected of being fixed, 15 more than was initially thought in
last summer's investigation, and which were all played in 2004
and 2005.


Public prosecutor Filippo Beatrice told AFP Friday that
prosecutors would be aiming to act on their most recent
investigation.


"We're hoping to be able to bring this to court between now and
June," he said.


"There are nearly 40 suspect matches (as opposed to 19
initially). The investigation has led us to confirm that certain
top club officials were in regular telephone contact with
referees and top officials with the Italian federation."


According to prosecutors, some of the unsavoury acts carried out
by corrupt referees included handing out yellow cards to certain
players, leading at times to their unavailability for future
matches, especially against Juventus.


Naples prosecutors also pointed at a number of questionable
penalty or off-side decisions made by referees, made to favour
the teams implicated in the scandal.


A number of referees, linesmen and other sports officials were
sanctioned for their part in last year's scandal although only
one referee, Massimo De Santis, was found guilty of misconduct in
the sporting courts.


Last year's affair shed light on the underbelly of football in
Italy, however it also revealed the difficuties of the
authorities to hand out sanctions in the absence of concrete
proof.

