

Top finance officials from the world's seven richest countries
launched a new bid Friday to bridge differences on economic and
currency policy and to take stock of a flourishing world economy.


Finance ministers and central bankers from Britain, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States, known as the
Group of Seven, convened here ahead of weekend meetings of
policymakers from the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank.


The three-day parley comes as attention in financial and
development circles is riveted on the fate of World Bank
President Paul Wolfowitz, currently facing calls that he resign
because of his role in a pay scandal at the bank.


The G7 session however is expected to focus on currency
volatility, with European members unsettled by a steadily
weakening Japanese yen and the United States pressing for greater
exchange rate flexibility in China.


Analysts are predicting that the group, as it did at its last
gathering in February, will steer clear of any hard-hitting
language targeting Japanese monetary policy.


It is also likely they will again appeal to China to allow its
currency, the yuan, to appreciate.


China is not attending the G7 session, as its ministers have done
as guests on several occasions in the past. Their absence follows
increased trade friction between Beijing and Washington and in
particular a US decision this week to lodge a copyright piracy
complaint against China at the World Trade Organization.


The ministers are also to debate possible measures to impose
controls on highly speculative hedge funds, an unregulated
trillion-dollar industry.


Germany, fearing that a meltdown at a major hedge fund could
seriously disrupt global finance, is pressing for tighter
government oversight.


But its campaign has met resistance from both the United States
and the International Monetary Fund, where it is argued that
market forces themselves are sufficient.


The G7 is to issue a statement later Friday at the end of its
meeting, which is also likely to take note of IMF predictions of
continued sound global economic growth.

