

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte on Friday met
Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol on a mission to press Khartoum
to accept a joint UN-African force to bring peace to Darfur.


The agenda was topped by the humanitarian crisis in the vast war-
torn region of west Sudan, efforts to bring about a peaceful
settlement and UN support for the stretched African Union (AU)
peacekeeping force, state news agency SUNA said.


Negroponte, who after his arrival in Khartoum on Thursday also
met Sudan's minister of state for foreign affairs, Sammani al-
Wassila, stressed the need for the rapid deployment of
international forces in Darfur, SUNA reported.


The US official travelled later Friday to Juba, capital of semi-
autonomous south Sudan over which a peace accord was signed in
January 2005 after more than 20 years of conflict with Khartoum.


The US embassy said Negroponte would travel to Darfur on Saturday
ahead of fresh talks the next day with officials in Khartoum. The
State Department said he will then visit Chad, Libya and
Mauritania.


Negroponte is pressing Khartoum to accept a hybrid peacekeeping
force of UN and AU forces to stem violence that has steadily
escalated since the Darfur conflict erupted in 2003.


"The tragic situation of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur is
something that preoccupies all Americans. It is an issue to which
the administration is devoting considerable time and resources,"
he said before leaving Washington.


Negroponte's visit comes after the United States held off on a
decision to impose unilateral sanctions against Sudan to give UN
chief Ban Ki-moon a last chance to convince Khartoum to allow UN
peacekeepers into Darfur.


Ban on April 2 asked for an additional two to four weeks to
pressure Sudan's opposition to the UN's planned deployment of a
joint force of some 20,000 troops to Darfur before turning to
sanctions.


The UN secretary general on Thursday sought to reassure Sudan
that helicopter gunships to be used by UN peacekeepers in Darfur
would be used only for deterrence.


The helicopters are "not for any offensive purpose... When you
deploy troops you need to have mobility with some capacity for
deterrence," he said.


On Monday after talks involving UN, AU and Sudanese government
officials in Addis Ababa over a three-stage plan for
international peacekeeping in Darfur, Sudan agreed to allow the
UN to start sending reinforcements to the AU troops.


Under the phased plan, roughly 2,300 UN troops are to be deployed
in Darfur to bolster the 7,000 under-equipped AU troops that have
failed to stem the bloodshed.


Ban said he would hold key talks on Monday and Tuesday with AU
Commission chairman Alpha Oumar Konare on the final phase of the
plan expected to culminate in the deployment of a 20,000-strong
joint UN-AU force in Darfur.


Some 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than two
million driven from their homes, according to the United Nations.
The Khartoum government disputes those figures.

