

The powerful German labour union IG Metall slammed Friday an 8.5
-million-euro (11.5-million-dollar) severance payment awarded to
the former co-chief executive of European aerospace giant EADS,
Noel Forgeard.


The union called for debate on Forgeard's so-called "golden
shake" which has already come under heavy fire in France.


"We are critical of these managers who fail, but who nevertheless
receive payments that are provided for in their contracts," a
spokesman for IG Metall's north German branch, Daniel Friedrich,
told AFP.


"Urgent debate is required on the matter. The payments must be
cancelled if the managers fail."


In addition, the general principle of high salaries for
executives was "untenable" for the union, Friedrich said.


"Employees don't understand why their wages are continually cut,
while managers' pay continuallly rise, ostensibly in the name of
remaining competitive at a global level," the spokesman said.


Forgeard, former chief executive of the European Aeronautic
Defence and Space Company (EADS) and its plane-making subsidiary,
Airbus, was awarded 6.1 million euros (8.2 million dollars) in
pay -- more than two years' salary -- when he left and was also
entitled to a non-competition indemnity package payable over two
years worth 2.4 million more, according to company documents
released on Tuesday.


EADS said the payoff was provided for in his contract.


Forgeard stood down last July in the face of troubles at Airbus
and controversy over his decision to exercise share options just
months before news of the problems was announced.


Airbus has since embarked on a massive restructuring programme
that entails the loss of 10,000 jobs in Europe, including 4,300
in France and 3,700 in Germany.


The severance pay packet has sparked fierce protest in France,
with presidential election candidates calling it a scandal.


Socialist contender Segolene Royal called on Airbus to withdraw
its proposed 10,000 job cuts across Europe following revelations
of the money paid to Forgeard.


Royal called the payments a "scandal" and a "provocation" as
Airbus battles with major losses caused by delays to its new A380
super-jumbo jet.


"Taking this information into account, I call on Airbus leaders
to withdraw the whole plan so we can start afresh to see which
job cuts are justified by the industrial strategy," Royal said in
a French television interview.


The Communist Party candidate in the election, Marie-George
Buffet, asked: "How can a company give such a bonus to a boss who
everyone agrees was a disastrous manager."


The president of the French lower house of parliament Patrick
Ollier expressed "indignation" at the payoff.

