

A British soldier was killed and two others wounded in southern
Afghanistan on Friday when their patrol fought fierce firefights
with Taliban insurgents, the Ministry of Defence said.


The fighting erupted when a unit returned from a patrol aimed at
reassuring Afghans that NATO forces were improving security in an
area of northwest Helmand province and spotted five Taliban
preparing an ambush.


The soldiers based near the town of Now Zad opened fire on the
Taliban who were soon reinforced, with other fighters firing
mortars, rockets, RPGs, heavy machine guns and small arms, the
ministry said.


One of the soldiers received serious gunshot wounds, it added in
a statement relayed from an ISAF press centre in Lashkar Gah,
Afghanistan.


Backed by an Apache attack helicopter exchanging fire with
Taliban fighters on the ground, a Chinook ambulance helicopter
arrived to collect the casualty and evacuated him for medical
care at the main British base at Camp Bastion.


However, he was pronounced dead on arrival, the ministry
statement said.


The death takes to 53 the number of British troops killed in
Afghanistan since the country's hardline former rulers, the
Taliban, were ousted from power in late 2001.


The ministry said the patrol continued to withdraw while fighting
off another larger Taliban force for over two hours.


Two more soldiers were also wounded, but British forces initially
estimated "a significant number of the enemy were killed."


The Chinook and Apache escort returned to the scene under fire,
collected the two soldiers and took them for treatment at Camp
Bastion, the ministry said.


Their condition is not serious, it added.


The troops serving in the 1st Battalion Royal Anglian Regiment
are part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan.


Britain has pledged an extra 1,400 troops for Afghanistan, taking
the country's contingent in the NATO-led ISAF to 7,700.


Most of them are based in Helmand, where the Taliban militia have
made a strong resurgence since being ousted from Kabul.

