

Beaten semi-finalists South Africa's World Cup performance
exposed weaknesses, including a lack of mental strength, which
need to be addressed urgently, the national cricket board said
Thursday.


In a statement on its website, Cricket South Africa (CSA)
congratulated Sri Lanka and Australia for reaching the finals of
the tournament in the Caribbean.


But CSA's chief executive Gerald Majola said that the Proteas's
performance against Australia in Wednesday's semi-final, when
they were thrashed by seven wickets, was "disappointing to say
the least".


"The match, and the tournament as a whole, has exposed weaknesses
in the Proteas squad which will be addressed as a matter of
urgency," said Majola.


"We must remember that this is virtually the same squad that won
13 matches on the trot and established themselves as the world's
best ODI exponents over the last two years.


"We have to find a way of taking this consistency into
tournaments because this World Cup has shown an alarming
inconsistency in the performances by the Proteas."


Despite beating England and Sri Lanka in the Super Eights stage,
South Africa had an unimpressive World Cup, suffering defeats
against Bangladesh and New Zealand as well as losing twice to
Australia.


The performance was doubly disappointing as they had gone into
the tournament ranked the world's top side in one-day
internationals (ODIs).


The team has been struggling to shake off a tag of "chokers" ever
since they were knocked out of the 1999 World Cup by Australia in
the semi-finals when Allan Donald was run out in a last over mix-
up with Lance Kluesner.


Majola indentified "mental strength" as one the "general
weaknesses facing South African cricket", also pinpointing their
shortcomings in spin bowling.


The team has been widely criticised for its over-reliance on pace
at the expense of spin bowling and skipper Graeme Smith has
already acknowledged that a top- class spinner is desperately
needed.


Former skipper Kepler Wessels is among those who have accused the
South Africans of becoming too predictable, especially when
playing away from home.


Majola said that the CSA had reached an agreement with the boards
of Pakistan and India on an academy exchange programme.


"This will enable us to send a squad of spinners to the sub-
continent for specialist coaching and for selected batsmen to
learn to play spin in those conditions," he said.


"Pakistan and India will then be able to use their bowlers and
batsmen to train in our quicker conditions."

