

The US Congress adopted a timetable for the withdrawal of US
troops from Iraq, defying a certain presidential veto and a
warning by the US commander that the violence could get "much,
much worse."


The US Senate voted 51 to 46 to approve the 124 billion dollar
war funding bill passed a day earlier by the House of
Representatives.


The bill provides the military with badly needed funds for
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, but requires it to begin
drawing down forces in Iraq in October with a non-binding target
date of March 31 to complete the drawdown.


"It sets us on a new course, away from a civil war with no end in
sight toward a responsible phased redeployment that holds Iraqis
accountable," said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.


"If the president refuses to change direction, America risks
being bogged down in Iraq for years, not months," Reid said.


But White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said President George W.
Bush would veto the legislation, setting the stage for a
protracted political impasse with funding for the war at stake.


General David Petraeus, the commander of US forces in Iraq, urged
careful consideration of the implications of a drawdown, warning
that the violence in Iraq "can get much, much worse."


Without commenting directly on the legislation, Petraeus said the
impact of bringing home US forces "depends on the permutations of
the various options."


Petraeus is leading a surge in US forces to Iraq to hold back
sectarian violence long enough to give Iraqi political leaders
one more chance to politically reconcile Shiites, Sunnis and
Kurds.


But the surge, which will peak in early June with the arrival of
the last five additional US combat brigades, has had only mixed
success to date.


Sectarian murders have fallen by two-thirds since January but
those gains have been overtaken by waves of spectacular car
bombings, which Petraeus attributed to Al-Qaeda in Iraq, Petraeus
said.


"The level of violence ... has generally been unchanged," he
said, adding that there had been no "appreciable change" in the
number of car bombings, which are currently the most pressing
threat to the US strategy.


Petraeus warned of the potential for more US combat deaths as
well, as US forces push into areas that have been insurgent
sanctuaries.


"I think there is the very real possibility that there's going to
be more combat action and that, therefore, there could be more
casualties," he said.


Seventy-eight US servicemembers have been killed this month
alone, raising the US death toll to 3,331 since the March 2003 US
invasion. Currently there are 146,000 US troops in Iraq.


"What I've said is that there is a Washington clock ticking. And
actually, to be fair to those in Washington, it's an American
clock," Petraeus said.


"But that clock is moving and it's moving at a rapid rate of
speed.  And it reflects the frustration, impatience,
disappointment, anger and a variety of other emotions (that
people) feel about the pace in Iraq and the situation in Iraq,"
he said.


The general also blamed Iran and Syria for fueling the extremist
violence.


He said evidence obtained within the past month shows that the
Iranian paramilitary Qods Force is funding, training, and
providing advanced explosive technologies to extremist networks.


The Iranian support extended to a cell that carried out a January
20 raid in Karbala in which five US soldier were killed, he said.


Gunmen disguised in US military-style uniforms breezed past
security checkpoints and attacked a provincial security building
during a visit by American troops to their Iraqi counterparts.


In March, the military announced the arrest of two brothers, Qais
and Laith Khazali, in connection with the murders of five
soldiers.


"There is no question that the Al-Khazali network was connected
to the Iranian Qods Force -- received money, training, arms,
ammunition, and at some points in time even advice and
assistance," he told reporters.


But he said there was no evidence that Iranians directed that
particular operation.


In other developments Thursday, a senior US officer was charged
with aiding the enemy and fraternizing with the daughter of an
inmate in a US-run prison camp, in the latest scandal to hit the
military in Iraq.


The US military accused Lieutenant Colonel William Steele, who
commanded Camp Cropper on the outskirts of Baghdad, of providing
an unmonitored cell phone to detainees.


He was also accused of having unauthorized possession of
classified information, maintaining an improper relationship with
an Iraqi interpreter, failing to obey an order and possessing
pornographic videos.


The charge sheet also accuses him of "willfully failing to
fulfill obligations as an approving authority" in the expenditure
of funds and of having improper contacts with the daughter of a
prisoner.


The charges cover a period of almost 17 months between October 1,
2005 and February 22, 2007.


At least 29 people were killed in Iraq on Thursday.


The confessionally divided province of Diyala, northeast of
Baghdad, was again a focus of violence when a suicide bomber blew
up a vehicle at a joint Iraqi army and police checkpoint, killing
nine soldiers.


Another 15 people were wounded in the bombing in the town of
Khalis, 10 of them soldiers, a security official said.


In Baghdad itself, a car bomb in the southern Jadiriyah district
killed six people and wounded 18, a defense ministry official
said. Another five people were killed in other attacks in the
capital.

