

Turkish police are questioning five men, including the suspected
assailant in an attempted attack on the staunchly secularist head
of the country's Higher Education Board (YOK), officials said
Thursday.


The alleged assailant, who fled after firing several shots at
security guards who stopped him from entering the YOK building on
Wednesday, was captured here several hours after the incident.


The police on Thursday detained four other men in Istanbul
suspected of having helped the assailant, who was identified as
Nurullah Ilgun, an Istanbul resident in his late 20s employed at
a private security firm.


Istanbul Governor Muammer Guler told Anatolia news agency that
one of the men was believed to have travelled to Ankara with
Ilgun and then returned to Istanbul.


Another suspect allegedly provided Ilgun with a gun, while the
remaining two were in close contact with him, Guler said.


Ilgun told investigators he did not intend to kill YOK chairman
Erdogan Tezic but only to open fire in the air and frighten him
because he was angered by "statements he made on television and
to newspapers," Anatolia reported.


Tezic has often clashed publicly with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's Islamist-rooted government over reform plans in the
education system that he deemed pro-Islamic.


He has also advocated rigid enforcement of a ban on the Islamic
headscarf in Turkish universities, which his board oversees.


Tezic had received threats in the past, YOK officials said.


In May last year, a radical Islamist killed a senior judge and
wounded four others when he raided Turkey's top administrative
court to avenge the headscarf ban, which the tribunal helped
enforce.


Wednesday's shooting coincided with the rekindling of the
headscraf debate, a highly divisive issue in secular Turkey,
after Erdogan nominated Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, whose wife
wears the veil, as the ruling party candidate to become the
country's next president in May.


Parliament will hold the first round in the presidential vote
Friday.

