

Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani said Thursday that talks with the
EU's foreign policy chief had made progress towards a "united
view" on ending the crisis over Iran's nuclear programme.


"I think in some areas we are approaching a united view and that
is to say the best approach is to have the issue settled through
negotiation," Larijani told journalists after meeting in Ankara
for a second day with Javier Solana.


The two men said they would meet again in two weeks but did not
give an exact date or time.


Solana had said ahead of Thursday's meeting that he did not
expect a "great breakthrough" in what is a first round of new
talks to persuade Iran to heed UN calls to halt uranium
enrichment.


The UN Security Council has imposed two sets of limited sanctions
on Iran to get it to freeze its enrichment work, which includes a
large scale plant underground at Natanz and a pilot research
plant above ground.


"We cannot make miracles but we have tried to move a little bit
the dossier forward," Solana said.


Tehran says its programme is to generate civilian nuclear power
but the United States and its allies believe Tehran wants to
develop nuclear weapons.


Neither negotiator gave details at a joint press conference after
a meeting with Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul or said
whether a compromise was possible.


But diplomats told AFP that Solana had made a proposal to the
Iranians based on a text, the so-called Swiss proposal, worked
out in recent months between Swiss and Iranian diplomats.


The Swiss proposal foresees a 30-day moratorium period, during
which Iran would not expand its nuclear programme and world
powers would not seek further UN sanctions.


During this period, the two sides would work out a "double time-
out" during which Iran would suspend uranium enrichment and the
so-called P5 plus one -- the five permanent UN Security Council
members plus Germany -- would suspend current UN sanctions
against the Islamic Republic.


This plan is based on simultaneous suspensions first proposed by
UN nuclear watchdog chief Mohamed ElBaradei.


The "time-out" would lead to talks between Iran and the six world
powers on trade and other benefits for Iran.


The Swiss proposal does not spell out if the Iranians must
suspend all enrichment work, or if they would be allowed to
continue research-level production, something the US officially
opposes.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said in Oslo on Thursday
that Iran must stop all enrichment in order to head off further
UN sanctions and to begin talks on a benefits package.


But Larijani said in an interview with CNN Turkish television: "A
full halt in enriching uranium is not on the agenda."


A diplomat who closely monitors the Iranian nuclear issue said
Iran would never agree to stop all enrichment work "and so the
issue becomes the pilot (research) project, whether the six will
accept that the pilot project continues."


Another idea being floated is to let Iran spin centrifuges empty,
without the uranium feedstock gas these machines need to make
enriched uranium. But US officials have specifically rejected
this as a compromise.


Solana said after the meeting here that there had not been
"specific discussions" on suspending uranium enrichment.

