

The EU parliament has this week shown its exasperation over
illiberal comments by Polish officials inside and outside the
chamber as the biggest of 2004's new members makes its mark.


On Thursday the European parliament in Strasbourg rallied behind
embattled Polish EU lawmaker Bronislaw Geremek over his refusal
to comply with a new national law to weed out communist-era
secret police informers.


Former foreign minister Bronislaw Geremek "is a political
personality of the highest esteem who has always stood up for
democracy in his country and for European unification," said
parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering.


"We will examine all legal possibilities that he can continue his
work," he added.


The so-called lustration law, pushed by President Lech Kaczynski
and his twin brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, requires
lawmakers, academics and others to file a declaration saying
whether they collaborated with the communist-era secret police or
risk losing their jobs.


A day earlier EU Commissioner for Equal Opportunities Vladimir
Spidla told the parliament that a Polish proposal to ban
discussion of homosexuality in schools would violate European
law,


Several Polish parliament members walked out after a vote to
suspend the debate failed.


To make matters worse far-right Polish MEP Maciej Giertych
published a homophobic pamphlet bearing the parliament's logo.


Entitled "European values" the opinion piece states that
homosexuality is "biologically useless" and "reversible" as long
as there is "the desire to become heterosexual and the spiritual
motivation."


Giertych is the father of Roman Giertych, Poland's education
minister and deputy premier.


In March Poettering reprimanded him for publishing an anti-
Semitic tract also bearing the parliamentary logo.


A Polish source told AFP that the anti-homosexual measure for
schools remained a deputy minister's opinion while the communist
links law was "complicated."


"The Polish authorities are not intending to take the mandate
back" from the offending MEP, he said.


"We have some 50 Polish MEPs who have signed the declaration
already so one can ask why Mr Geremek didn't. Everybody is
supposed to conform with the law."


"Of course we have some specific situations because of
geopolitical, geographical location and our background history
etc," he added, "so it's not all black and white, it's a bit
complicated."


Sebastian Kurpas, research fellow at the Centre for European
Policy Studies, agrees that Poland is a special case.


"It is a tough partner" for the EU, he told AFP, citing not only
problems in the EU parliament.


Poland is holding up talks on a new wide-ranging EU partnership
agreement with Russia, over Moscow's refusal to lift an embargo
on Polish meat and other foodstuffs. On that issue, says Kurpas,
Warsaw has a case.


Poland is also opposed to German plans to resurrect the EU's
stalled constitutional treaty, objecting primarily to the way
votes for EU decision- making are distributed between the member
countries.


After repeated attempts by EU president Germany to persuade
Warsaw to temper its objections to the reform plans, European
Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso last week launched his
own diplomatic broadside.


"I think it is in the interest of Poland to have a European Union
that works in an efficient, democratic and coherent manner," he
told reporters in Brussels after talks with visiting Polish Prime
Minister Kaczynski.


The European Commission has also taken action at Europe's top
court to stop road work undertaken by Warsaw in a significant and
fragile forest ecosystem in the northeast of the country.


To add to the mix, the Polish Roman Catholic and fiercely anti-EU
broadcaster Radio Maryja is seeking money from Brussels to help
expand its journalism school, according to a news report last
week.


Poland is flexing its political muscle as the biggest country to
join the EU since the "big-bang" of 2004 when 10 mainly ex-
communist states joined up.


One of the problems, according to Kurpas, is the collapse of the
Polish left, which garnered just 11 percent of the popular vote
at the last elections.


Also the Catholic church has the sort of grip not seen even in
Ireland or Italy, he argued, as "all the leftist forces are close
to the church".

