

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was due here Thursday for
talks with US President George W. Bush on North Korea, Tokyo's
expanding global role -- and maybe beef and baseball in the
bargain.


Both sides hoped that the two leaders would build on a strategic
relationship that grew under Abe's predecessor, Junichiro
Koizumi, one of Bush's closest allies, a personal friend, and a
staunch backer of the Iraq war.


"The Japan-US alliance is the cornerstone of Japan's diplomacy
and national security and as unshakable, irreplaceable allies, we
need to build a firm relationship of trust," Abe told reporters
before departing.


"We are like-minded democracies pursuing a common agenda and,
again, that transcends whether it's Prime Minister Koizumi or
Prime Minister Abe,"  Dennis Wilder, the US National Security
Council's top East Asia hand, said Wednesday.


Wilder called Japan "an increasingly indispensable global
partner" as he briefed reporters on the prime minister's first
visit to the United States since taking office last year.


Abe, who broke with tradition by travelling first to China, South
Korea, and Europe before planning a visit here, said he hoped "to
build a relationship with the president in which we can discuss
everything frankly."


The "frank" diplomatic code-word often applies when leaders
disagree, and there were signs that Abe would seek reassurances
from Bush on North Korea, particularly on the issue of Japanese
citizens abducted by Pyongyang.


"I will express my stance with an iron will of seeking a solution
to the abduction issue," said Abe, who rejected a US-backed aid-
for-disarmament deal with North Korea due to the kidnapping
dispute.


Wilder said Bush would reassure Abe during their talks at the
White House and the Camp David presidential retreat that the
United States has no plans to remove North Korea from its list of
terrorism sponsors before Pyongyang resolves the abductee issue.


"We aren't going to de-link the abductee issue from the state
sponsor of terrorism issue," said Wilder, who stressed that a key
goal of the two-day summit was bolstering the leaders' personal
ties.


"One thing they do share is a love of baseball, and a great deal
of interest in Japan's most significant export to the United
States in the last year," said Wilder, referring to pitcher
Daisuke Matsuzaka of the Boston Red Sox.


Bush and Abe will also discuss Tokyo's increasingly bold global
role and may touch on World War II era disputes roiling Japan's
relations with its neighbors.


Wilder said such matters would not be central to the visit, but
cautioned that Tokyo still had work to do on easing tensions over
so-called "comfort women" driven into brothels by Japan's
military.


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of women
into brothels across Asia.


He has since stressed he stands by Japan's landmark 1993 apology
to the women. Bush praised Abe's "candor" on the issue in a
telephone conversation early this month, according to the White
House.


Wilder joked about one of the stickier trade issues the two
leaders were expected to discuss -- Japanese curbs on US beef
imports.


"If you ask my personal recommendation, I think obviously Prime
Minister Abe ought to have a steak dinner sometime while he's
here in Washington," said Wilder.


Asked about a possible steak dinner, a senior Japanese official
briefing reporters on Abe's visit replied: "I'm sure Prime
Minister Abe would enjoy it."


Japan this week agreed to ease its strict inspection regime on
imports of US beef, which it had imposed over concerns about mad-
cow disease.


Abe, whose grandfather was a World War II cabinet minister, has
vowed to shake off legacies of defeat in that conflict, including
his country's US-imposed pacifist constitution.


And he recently decided to extend by two years an air mission
flying goods and personnel into Iraq, although Japan ended its
ground troop deployment last year.

