

Canada's Conservative government will present a much-anticipated
plan to combat global warming on Thursday but critics have
already dismissed Ottawa's approach as insufficient and accused
the government of forsaking the Kyoto Protocol.


Environment Minister John Baird was to outline the strategy later
in Toronto that would require 700 of the largest polluters to
reduce emissions.


Details of the plan were revealed Wednesday after an accidental
leak of Baird's speech, prompting preemptory criticism from
opposition parties and environmental groups.


The government proposes to stop a rise in greenhouse gas
emissions in three to five years and reduce emissions 20 percent
by 2020.


But before Baird delivered his speech, opposition parties and
environmental activists blasted the proposed targets as too
timid.


For environmental groups, the government's use of 2006 as the
base year to calculate reduction goals first set out in 1990 --
the internationally recognized base year -- was misleading.


"By reducing emissions 20 percent from 2006 we are going to leave
2020 with emissions five percent higher than 1990 levels and 11
percent below Kyoto goals," Matthew Bramley of the Pembina
Institute's climate change program told AFP.


Calling the plan "very insufficient," Bramley accused the
government of abandoning its legal obligations under the global
warming Kyoto Protocol.


He added the European Union by contrast had adopted a target of a
20 percent reduction by 2020, based on 1990 levels of emissions.


"We read this as Canada withdrawing from the protocol," said John
Bennett of Climate for Change. "Canada is not taking
responsibility for its part in reducing global emissions."


Under the protocol, Canada promised to reduce its emissions
levels by six percent by 2012 compared to the benchmark year of
1990. Instead, Canada's greenhouse gas emissions have risen by 30
percent since 1990.


The conservatives say the Kyoto targets would impose a heavy
price on the country's economy that could trigger a recession and
high unemployment.


The environment minister acknowledged on Wednesday the country
had "one of the worst environmental records among industrialized
countries" but warned efforts to fix the problem had to be
carried out with care.


"We will not spin the wheel so hard as to put the Canadian
economy in the ditch to deliver an environmental plan asked for
in some quarters," Baird said.


The latest plan by the conservatives under Prime Minister Stephen
Harper represents a stricter approach on climate change compared
to previous proposals.


In October 2006, the conservatives introduced a bill to reduce
Canada's carbon emissions that set no deadlines on cuts before
2020.


"One can see an evolution, but unfortunately, it is still far
from our legal obligations and the imperative to adequately
combat climate change," Bramley said.


The opposition also blasted the plan as failing to go far enough
and accused the government of protecting the interests of
companies pursuing oil sands production in the Alberta province,
a political bastion for the conservatives.


Randy Eresman, CEO of EnCana, one of the firms engaged in oil
sands production, said the proposed regulations could raise costs
of operations and hamper oil sands production.


Oil sands development produces high levels of pollution and the
Alberta province ranks first in greenhouse gas emissions in
Canada.

