

Foreign forces in Afghanistan played down Thursday a reported
claim by a Taliban commander that Osama bin Laden planned a
suicide bombing two months ago that targeted US Vice President
Dick Cheney.


Mullah Dadullah, Taliban military operations commander in
southern Afghanistan, told the Qatar-based Al-Jazeera network
that the Al-Qaeda leader had planned and supervised the February
27 attack that killed about 23 people.


The suicide attacker blew himself up at an outer gate of the main
US base in Afghanistan at Bagram, where Cheney had spent the
night before going to Kabul some 60 kilometres (40 miles) to the
south.


"All indications from our investigation so far is that it was
purely coincidental that the attack occurred at that time," US
military spokesman Major William Mitchell told AFP from Bagram.


"We have no information or evidence that Bin Laden was involved
in any way," he said.


"The vice president was never in any danger. The bomber detonated
himself at an outermost security post and he had no chance of
entering the base," said Mitchell, who is with the US-led
coalition.


It was also "highly unlikely" the Taliban or Al-Qaeda would have
known Cheney was at the base, he said. The trip was shrouded in
secrecy.


The blast, the most deadly this year, killed a US and a South
Korean soldier and a US contractor.


The other victims were Afghan civilians, most of them queuing to
enter the base for work, and a Pakistani worker, officials said
at the time.


NATO's International Security Assistance Force, which works
alongside the coalition, described Dadullah's claim as
"baseless."


NATO's civilian representative in Afghanistan, Nicholas Lunt,
said separately: "Nothing that I have heard discussed about any
of these events in this headquarters would indicate that this is
the case, but I suppose it is possible."


Dadullah, who has a reputation as one of the Taliban's most
brutal henchmen, told Al-Jazeera that Bin Laden was alive and
planning operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.


"You may remember the martyr operation inside the Bagram base
which targeted a senior US official ... that operation was a
result of his wise planning," he said in an interview posted on
the channel's website.


"He planned that operation in details and guided us through it.
The operation was a success."


The Taliban also said the bombing had targeted Cheney, but the
movement can be opportunistic.


It was driven from government in late 2001 by the coalition for
sheltering Bin Laden's Al-Qaeda, which carried out the 9/11
attacks that killed more than 3,000 people in the United States.


Bin Laden, perhaps the world's most wanted man, is believed to
have fled into Pakistan with leaders of the Taliban, but US
military officials have said his trail has "run cold."

