

The Democratic Republic of Congo's ongoing security reform has
the support of the United Nations Development Programme, the
agency's deputy chief said in Kinshasa on Thursday.


"To support the government in the security reform process and
take initiatives to set up a re-education programme for former
fighters are, we feel, the main tasks" after the 2006 elections,
Ad Melkert told journalists.


He was speaking at the end of a four-day visit to Congo.


The lack of security in the east of the country "constitutes a
threat to the progress of democracy", said Melkert. It could
"hamper efforts by the international community to improve the
daily living conditions of the Congolese people."


Last month, the agency began setting up a four-million-dollar
(2.9-million-euro) programme to help disarm and demobilise
militias in the northeastern Ituri province and reintegrate them
into civil society, Melkert said.


"Our teams are already (on site) and are waiting for a green
light from the government," he added. The success of the project
would depend on the Congolese government's dedication to making
it work.


The UNDP was also supporting "the government in the
decentralisation of the country as well as in the preparation of
local elections," he said.


Decentralisation is a requirement of the constitution that was
drawn up last year.


Since 2002, the UNDP has raised more than 500 million dollars for
Congo especially aimed at "responding in an efficient manner to
the humanitarian needs" and "supporting the transition", he
added.


Since his arrival in Congo on Sunday, Melkert has held talks with
President Joseph Kabila and other cabinet members and has visited
three UNDP sponsored development projects in Goma in the eastern
Nord-Kivu region.


"The objective of our visit in DRC has been to discuss with all
the development partners the possibilities of taking on the
challenges facing DRC in the wake of its first democratic
elections in more than 40 years," he said.


Last year's presidential and parliamentary elections were the
crowning moment of an arduous three-year post-war transition
monitored by the United Nations. Kabila and his allies took a
majority of seats in national institutions.


Melkert was set to leave Kinshasa for Brazzaville in the
neighbouring People's Republic of the Congo, where he will take
part in an annual UNDP work meeting on Africa.

