

Scientific evidence will prove that the B-movie actress allegedly
shot dead by music producer Phil Spector in fact killed herself,
defense lawyers told jurors here Thursday.


Spector, 67, the eccentric genius who pioneered the famous "Wall
of Sound" recording technique during the 1960s, is accused of
murdering statuesque blonde Lana Clarkson at his castle-like
residence on February 3, 2003.


Prosecutors told Los Angeles Superior Court on Wednesday that
Spector had a "sinister and deadly" side to his character and was
a man with a history of flying into drunken, gun-toting rages
directed at women.


But continuing opening defense statements on Thursday, Spector's
legal team said scientific experts would testify that Clarkson
had killed herself, just hours after meeting Spector for the
first time.


"We have one unimpeachable witness who has no motive for or
against anybody, no motive to lie for or against any person, has
no memory problems and no language problems," defense lawyer
Linda Kenney-Baden told jurors.


"The evidence will show that the science proves Philip Spector is
innocent. Not only does he stand before you presumed innocent,
the scientific facts will tell you that he is factually innocent.


"The science will tell you that Philip Spector did not shoot Lana
Clarkson, that he did not hold the gun, and that he did not pull
the trigger."


Spector, who denies murder, sat impassively through the morning's
hearing after arriving at court wearing platform shoes and a dark
three-piece suit  featuring a trademark knee-length jacket.


Famed for his work with The Beatles, Tina Turner, The Righteous
Brothers, The Ronettes and the Ramones, Spector faces up to 15
years in prison if he is convicted of second-degree murder.


The hearing is the highest-profile celebrity case to be televised
since the O.J. Simpson murder trial in 1995 and is expected to
run for around two to three months.


Prosecutor Alan Jackson earlier told the court that a chauffeur
who had been at Spector's home on the night of Clarkson's death
saw the producer emerge from his house holding a pistol before
saying: "I think I killed somebody."


Jackson played a tape of the 911 call for emergency services the
driver, Adriano De Souza, made after the shooting.


"I think my boss killed somebody," De Souza was heard telling the
operator, adding that he had seen Spector holding a gun.


Spector's defense lawyer Bruce Cutler, famous for defending New
York mafia boss John Gotti, said Clarkson had killed herself and
that police had rushed to judgement when they first began
investigating the circumstances of the death.


The hearing continues.

