

The US communications authority urged Congress in a report this
week to step in to protect children from violent images on
television.


The Federal Communications Commission said in a new report that
US children spend two to four hours a day in front of TV screens,
and warned that "there is strong evidence that exposure to
violence in the media can increase aggressive behavior in
children, at least in the short term."


The FCC said that while depicting violence is part of the freedom
of speech guaranteed by the constitution, the Supreme Court can
allow some regulation if it is limited and justified in the
public interest.


The government regulator submitted its report to lawmakers
Wednesday on the need for, legality of and feasibility of such
regulation. A copy of the report was obtained by AFP.


The commission said that warnings and parent-controlled blocking
strategies were useful but not effective. Although all
televisions sold in the United States after 2000 are equipped
with parental controls, only about 15 percent of parents use
them.


So it recommended limiting the time at which programming
containing violent images can be shown.


And it also stressed that subscribers to cable and satellite
television should not be forced to take any channels they do not
want with subscriptions to a package, and should be able to
choose channels they want one by one.


But the issue of defining violence is not so simple.


"A football game, a 'Road Runner' cartoon, the Holocaust drama
'Schindler's List,' a 'The Three Stooges' short, an airing of the
evening news with discussion of violent crime, and a science
fiction film such as 'Star Wars'" all could be seen as containing
violence, the FCC noted.


But to identify violent images, "for example, such a definition
might cover depictions of physical force against an animate being
that, in context, are patently offensive," it added.


Any regulatory restrictions, however, are complicated business in
the United States due to the constitutional guarantee of free
speech.


That can lead to strange extremes: last week US television
networks chose to air the hatred-steeped video rantings of Cho
Seung-Hui, the student who carried out the Virginia Tech
massacre, and then to "beep" out a few of his potentially
offensive insults.


Caroline Fredrickson, Director of the ACLU Washington Legislative
Office, insisted that the FCC recommendations on violence and
kids amount to "political pandering."


"The government should not replace parents as decision makers in
America's living rooms. There are some things the government does
well, but deciding what is aired and when on television is not
one of them," she said.


"Parents already have many tools to protect their children,
including blocking programs and channels, changing the channel,
or turning off the television. Government should not parent the
parents."

