

The EU parliament rallied behind embattled Polish EU lawmaker
Bronislaw Geremek on Thursday over his refusal to comply with a
new law to weed out communist era secret police informers.


"Mr Geremek is a political personality of the highest esteem who
has always stood up for democracy in his country and for European
unification," said parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering.


"We will examine all legal possibilities that he can continue his
work," he added.


However, he said that the parliament had so far not received any
information from Warsaw about Geremek's mandate.


The former anti-communist activist has laid his European
lawmaker's mandate on the line by refusing to declare in writing
whether he had collaborated with the communist-era secret
services under a new law.


Geremek, 75, a founder-member of the Solidarity trade union in
the 1980s and former foreign minister, said Wednesday the so-
called lustration law trumpeted by President Kaczynski and his
twin brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, was "creating an
Orwellian-style ministry of truth" in Poland.


The new measures drastically extend the dragnet of an existing
law, which previously affected only lawmakers, government
ministers and judges, or around 30,000 of Poland's 38 million
people.


Last month it was broadened to include academics, journalists,
managers of state-owned firms, school principals, diplomats and
lawyers, and now affects nearly three-quarters of a million
Poles.


They are required to file declarations saying whether or not they
collaborated with the communist-era secret police, on pain of
losing their jobs.


European Commission spokesman Johannes Laitenberger declined to
comment on the law before it was reviewed by Poland's
constitutional court.


However, he said that "the commission has the highest possible
esteem for professor Geremek" because of his past supporting
Polish democracy.


Meanwhile, in Paris French European Affairs Minister Catherine
Colonna said in a statement she had telephoned Geremek to assure
him of her "friendly support and solidarity" and had asked the
European Parliament for details on his situation.


"A founder nation of the European Union and home to the European
Parliament, France is particularly vigilant concerning the
respect of the fundamental values on which European construction
is based," Colonna said.

