

Zimbabwe, already battling to contain the world's highest rate of
inflation, announced on Thursday that the figure had soared once
more to 2,200 percent.


After the official announcement of the rate for March was twice
postponed earlier this month, central bank governor Gideon Gono
confirmed the figure had crashed through the 2,000 percent
barrier for the first time after rising by another 470 percentage
points from the 1,730 percent mark for February.


"Year-on-year inflation which stood at 1,072.2 percent in October
rose to 11,281.1 percent in December and has risen to to 2,200
percent by March," Gono said in a televised statement.


"Inflation pressures are seen remaining high," Gono said, calling
for a collective effort to tame the "inflation dragon".


"It's imperative to note that the inflation dragon is as much
determined by collective mindsets of all of us as it is by
monetary aggregates or what is called money supply growth.


"As Zimbabweans, we must therefore think and act positively
avoiding the daily enterprise of scheming the downfall of the
economy as a getaway to any objective."


Gono has compared inflation in Zimbabwe to the AIDS pandemic and
the latest figure further undermines a prediction by then finance
minister Herbert Murerwa in December that it would fall to around
300 percent by the end of 2007.


Best Doroh, an economist with Harare-based ZB Financial Holdings,
said all the evidence pointed to the prospect of an even bigger
figure by the end of the year.


"It is difficult to say what the rate will be by year end but it
certainly won't be anywhere near what these guys had initially
predicted," he told AFP.


John Robertson, a Harare-based independent economist, predicted
that the rate could almost double by the end of the year.


"At the rate at which things are moving, inflation will surpass
4,000 percent by year end because the government is printing
money and the central bank was recently buying foreign currency
on the parrallel market," he said.


"Things will get worse unless there is a change of policy," he
added


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downturn over the past seven
years with four in every five persons out of work and perennial
shortages of commodities like sugar, cooking oil and fuel in the
one-time bread basket of Africa.


Over 80 percent of the population is living below the poverty
threshold often skipping meals or cycling or walking long
distances to work in order to stretch their wages.


The government blames the economic crisis on targetted sanctions
imposed on veteran President Robert Mugabe and members of his
inner circle by the United States and the European Union
following presidential polls in 2002 which the opposition and
western observers charged were rigged.


Part of the problem is a desperate lack of foreign currency with
the Zimbabwean dollar only fetching a fraction at official rates
as on the thriving black market.


In his address, Gono effectively devalued the currency for
exporters and those holding foreign exchange by 99 percent in a
move seen as an attempt to increase the inflows of foreign
currency.


Shying away from calling it devaluation, Gono said the rate at
which foreign currency account holders can sell their foreign
cash would be 60 times higher.


Before the devaluation, the Zimbabwean dollar had been trading at
around 25,000 to the greenback, against the official rate of 250
dollars.

