

Indonesian police said Thursday they were interviewing fresh
witnesses suspected of involvement in the murder of a leading
human rights campaigner.


Police said they were questioning two people over the killing of
activist Munir Said Thalib, initially thought to have been
poisoned with arsenic put in his drink on a flight to Amsterdam
with national carrier Garuda in 2004.


Police have reopened the investigation into his murder amid
public and political pressure after a court last year overturned
the conviction of an Indonesian pilot jailed for the killing.


Police this month arrested the former head of Garuda over the
poisoning and also took into custody an ex-secretary with the
airline. The pair allegedly falsified documents allowing the
pilot, Pollycarpus Priyanto, to travel on Munir's flight.


But police spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto said late Thursday they were
also questioning other witnesses, and were confident that the
investigation was progressing.


"We're intensifying our findings related to the two suspects and
some witnesses," he told ElShinta radio.


"We have new names but it needs to be proven first before they
can be made public," he said without elaborating.


Local media have said in recent weeks that police were
questioning an Indonesian singer and a former senior intelligence
officer.


As part of the re-investigation, police have concluded that Munir
was actually poisoned while on a stopover at Singapore's Changi
airport.


Priyanto, the pilot, told ElShinta Thursday it was "funny" police
had arrested former Garuda head Indra Setiawan and suspected him
of involvement.


"Garuda Indonesia is a big state-owned company, the (Indonesian)
president and (other) high officials fly with the airline," he
said.


"I do not understand why (Setiawan) is suspected in a murder or
suspected of helping a murder. It's funny."


Priyanto also repeated his previous denials of any involvement in
the killing.


Rights activists, including Munir's widow, have accused the
government and police of dragging their feet in investigating the
case because intelligence officers were believed to be behind the
killing.


Munir made powerful enemies through his campaigning during the
rule of dictator Suharto.


He had worked to expose military involvement in human rights
violations during East Timor's 1999 vote for independence from
Indonesia.

