

The European parliament on Thursday voiced concern over human
rights violations in China ahead of next year's Beijing Olympics,
calling for the issue to be tied to trade talks.


The MEPs overwhelmingly endorsed the parliament's annual human
rights report, which also takes aim at the situation in Russia,
Iran and EU candidate Turkey, among others.


China's human rights record is still a matter of "serious
concern" and should thus "receive more focus in the build-up to
the Beijing Olympic games," the MEPs said, emphasising the need
to strengthen and improve dialogue on the issue between the EU
and China.


Members urged the European Commission and member states "to raise
the question of Tibet" in talks with the Beijing government,
adding that trade relations with China should be contingent upon
human rights reform.


China on Thursday warned visiting foreigners against engaging in
activities that threaten the nation's unity, as a rights group
demanded the release of four Americans detained for a pro-Tibet
protest.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has since violently suppressed a number of
uprisings.


The parliament in Strasbourg also strongly criticised the Russian
government over human rights, regretting that the EU has had
"only limited success in bringing about policy change as a result
of raising difficult issues."


The report attacked Russian legislation limiting the activities
of NGOs and that journalists and human rights defenders have been
threatened.


It also highlighted the murder of Russian journalist Anna
Politkovskaya and allegations of Russian involvement in the
poisoning of former Russian agent Alexander Litvinenko in London.


On Iran the report noted a deterioration of the human rights
situation including "the intensification of the repression
against human rights defenders."


The report also voiced concern over the "limited progress" on
human rights issues in Turkey and encouraged the Ankara
government to change Article 301 of its penal code, which outlaws
the denigration of "Turkishness."


It raises concerns over religious freedoms and minority rights,
including for the Kurds in the southeast of the country.


The EU itself does not escape censure in the parliamentary report
which says the Union should have taken "more unilateral action"
to persuade the Sudanese government to accept an international
peacekeeping force in Darfur.


The MEPs propose "a plan of specific, targeted sanctions to be
imposed on the Khartoum regime ... in the event of non-compliance
with the demands of the international community."


The parliament also called on the EU to urge the US government to
"charge or release" its Guantanamo detainees "in accordance with
international law".

