

The EU Commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid warned
on Thursday that conditions were worsening in the Palestinian
territories, and asked Israel to ease restrictions on movement.


"The humanitarian situation in the Palestinian territories is
deteriorating a lot," Louis Michel told a news conference as he
continued the first leg of a regional tour.


"I remember when I came one year ago in the region, it was
already awful and difficult, but now I think it is
deteriorating."


He said restrictions on movement that Israel imposed in the
territories, citing security, were partly to blame.


"I show a very high concern for the security of Israel," Michel
said. "I know it is not an easy life to be under the danger of
terror attacks... but at the same time when I see walls, when I
see the fences and when I see the barriers, of course I can
easily imagine it has very bad consequences on the daily life of
the people in the Palestinian territories."


"So my first concern... is to see how we can improve the access
and the movement of the people."


The Palestinian territories have been reeling from the effects of
a ban on direct aid to the government that the European Union and
the United States imposed a year ago, when the Islamist Hamas
movement formed a cabinet.


The European Union, the largest donor of aid to the Palestinians,
has since funnelled aid money through a special mechanism that
bypasses the government, meaning that tens of thousands of civil
servants have gone without full pay.


The direct aid ban has had "dramatic consequences, because... the
salaries were not paid any more," Michel said.


He also said an Arab peace proposal revived at a summit in Riyadh
last month could "be a good opportunity to relaunch (peace)
discussions."


"This proposal can be useful if the Arab organisations can
explain properly the content of the proposal and.. the aim of the
proposal to the Israeli government," he said.


Michel is due on Friday to continue a regional tour that will
also take him to Jordan and Syria.

