

The mood in German Chancellor Angela Merkel's shaky left-right
government soured Thursday as the ruling parties scrambled to
score points on charged issues at each other's expense.


Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats (CDU) and the centre-
left Social Democrats have crossed swords in recent weeks on
counter-terrorism, family policy, tax reform and calls for a
minimum wage, shattering the tense calm that had reigned in their
nearly 18 months in power.


The spat between the long-time rivals came to a head when Volker
Kauder, the CDU parliamentary group leader and a member of
Merkel's inner circle, accused Social Democrats of grandstanding
at Germany's expense.


"The SPD is damaging the country," he told rolling news channel
N24 after leading Social Democrats (SPD) went on the attack over
conservative proposals to slash corporate taxes and eliminate the
inheritance tax.


A member of the SPD's board, Andreas Nahles, shot back on RBB
radio that it was "unbelievable" that the Christian Democrats
would call for the tax cuts in direct violation of the
government's original coalition agreement.


During its tenure, the "grand coalition" -- the product of an
inconclusive national election -- has seen Merkel deftly set the
agenda and quash dissent, sending her approval ratings soaring.


At the same time, the German economy -- Europe's largest -- has
made a robust recovery, joblessness is falling and the public
deficit is shrinking.


Merkel has also basked in the limelight of the dual presidencies
of the European Union and the Group of Eight club of wealthy
nations that she assumed in January.


At the same time the Social Democrats have struggled to seize on
issues that resonate with their rank-and-file members and appeal
to centrist voters.


The party has plummeted to just 27 percent support in opinion
polls versus 34 percent for Merkel's conservatives.


"The SPD is now futilely trying to boost its profile on any
number of issues," Laurenz Meyer of the CDU's parliamentary group
gloated in an interview with the daily Leipziger Volkszeitung.


"The poll numbers are apparently taking their toll."


The conservatives have used their advantage to go on the
offensive on a range of issues, often catching the Social
Democrats on the hop.


Guenther Beckstein, the powerful conservative state interior
minister in Bavaria, infuriated Social Democrats when he said
they would share the blame for a future terrorist attack in
Germany for opposing CDU plans to drastically widen security
authorities' access to personal data.


The parties are also at an impasse on the SPD's call for a
minimum wage in certain sectors. The CDU argues it would be a
job-killer.


And the conservative Family Affairs Minister Ursula von der
Leyen, a media-savvy mother of seven, has upstaged the Social
Democrats with ambitious plans for expanding state-funded child
care and family leave.


"The SPD is slowly realising that the CDU/CSU will not grant it
any more major successes," said the Berlin daily Tagesspiegel.


Vice-chancellor Franz Muentefering of the Social Democrats told
public broadcaster ZDF he was nevertheless confident the
coalition would see out its four-year term, to 2009.


"But we have to do better than we have done in recent weeks.
That's for sure," he said.


As the Social Democrats cope with sinking poll ratings and the
right-wing Christian Union parties dream of a future coalition
with a smaller, less troublesome king-maker party, the result has
been political paralysis in Berlin.


"The CDU/CSU and the SPD are united by just one thought: when
might be the right time to leave the coalition, citing a reason
that could be made plausible?" the centre-left daily Sueddeutsche
Zeitung said.


"The Hamburg (city-state) elections in February 2008, just after
a series of other state elections, are at the centre of these
considerations."


Despite the friction, few observers thought the government would
fall.


"The coalition will not collapse now but the aversion is
growing," the left- leaning daily Frankfurter Rundschau said.

