

Messaoud Ould Boulkheir, a failed candidate in Mauritania's
landmark presidential elections last month, was on Thursday
elected president of the country's national assembly.


Ould Boulkheir, a former slave who came in fourth in last month's
presidential poll, received 91 of 93 votes for the post as head
of the assembly during its first session since legislative
elections late last year.


Former army chief Al-Arbi Ould Jeddeine and another candidate
belonging to the majority grouping in the 95-seat assembly
received one vote each.


Ould Boulkheir, a Heratin, or Black Moor, who received nearly 10
percent of votes in the first round of the presidential election
on March 11, is head of the Popular Progress Alliance, or APP,
which holds five national assembly seats.


For the second presidential polling round on March 25, Ould
Boulkheir supported winner Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdellahi, who in
return promised to back the former slave to head the national
assembly, according to parliamentary sources.


Ba Mbare, of the minority black Mauritanians in the south of the
country, was meanwhile elected president of the senate on
Thursday.


In the senate's first session since its 53 members were elected
in January, Ba Mbare, a former government minister, received 40
votes against 11 votes cast for Ahmed Salem Ould Bakar of former
opposition party Rally of Democratic Forces (RFD).


Ba Mbare served as minister of fisheries and maritime economy
under autocratic ruler Maaouiya Ould Taya, deposed by the
military in a bloodless coup in August 2005.


Last Friday, President Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi named Zeine
Ould Zeidane, a former central bank chief who came third in the
presidential poll, as the country's new prime minister.


Like Ould Boulkheir, Zeidane supported Abdallahi for president in
the second round of voting last month against veteran opposition
leader Ahmed Ould Daddah.


The new president was sworn in last week in the final step of a
successful transfer of power from a military junta which staged
the coup against Taya 19 months ago, vowing to restore democracy
to the northwestern African country.

