

Ivory Coast's armed forces and rebels will from next week start
monitoring a buffer zone dividing the world's top cocoa producer
following a new peace deal, the United Nations said Thursday.


The zone, earlier patrolled by UN peacekeepers and French
soldiers and dividing the rebel-held north from the government-
controlled south, started being dismantled on April 16 in line
with the new peace agreement.


The UN force "will be present on Monday when the mixed brigade
takes up positions in the western areas of Bangolo and Zeale,"
Hamadoun Toure, a spokesman for the UN force in Ivory Coast
(ONUCI) told a news conference.


"Our withdrawal will start with the arrival of the mixed
brigade," he said.


Western Ivory Coast, which borders Liberia, was home to several
armed militias and one of the most restive areas in the country.


Ivory Coast has been split in half since a failed 2002 uprising
against President Laurent Gbagbo which led to a low level civil
war.


Neighbouring Liberia had been meanwhile wracked by 14 years of
back-to-back wars and western Ivory Coast became a haven for both
Ivorian and Liberian rebel groups and armed militias.


After several mediation attempts by Ivory Coast's former colonial
ruler France, the United Nations, the African Union and a West
African regional bloc failed, President Gbagbo and rebel leader
Guillaume Soro finalised their own peace deal on March 4.


Under the agreement, Soro became prime minister in a transitional
government, but doubts remain over the two men's commitment to
power sharing.


Aid charity Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF, Doctors Without
Borders) on Wednesday warned that attacks were on the rise in
western Ivory Coast since foreign troops began withdrawing from
the buffer zone.


It said its team in Bangolo, some 500 kilometres (300 miles) west
of the commercial seaside capital Abidjan, has reported a new
wave of violence since April 16.


"A minibus was attacked and burglaries, killings and rapes are
the daily lot of people and those travelling through this zone,"
it said, adding that MSF doctors had tended to six victims of
"aggression." A seventh had died, it said.

