

Inmates at a Greek high security prison on Thursday ended a four-
day protest that sparked similar flare-ups in other correctional
facilities around the country, and is believed to be linked to
vandalism incidents in Athens by suspected anarchists.


Around 200 inmates at Malandrino prison, around 200 kilometres
(125 miles) northwest of Athens, began returning to their cells
after spending the last three nights on the penitentiary roof.


The prison guards sealed off access to the roof, leaving the
inmates to spend the night in the cold and rain, and without
food.


Riot police were dispatched on Wednesday to ensure that other
protesting inmates returned to their cells.


The unrest at Malandrino began after a young inmate, linked to an
Athens bank robbery shootout in 2006, was allegedly beaten by
guards on Monday.


News of the alleged incident sparked protests in another ten
prisons, involving hundreds of inmates and prompting a
countrywide crackdown on Tuesday.


Order was largely restored in prisons in Athens, on the Ionian
island of Corfu, the Aegean island of Crete, the central towns of
Larissa and Trikala, the western city of Patras, the northern
city of Salonika and the northeastern town of Komotini by the end
of Tuesday.


Three inmates were injured in a police operation in the high
security prison of Korydallos in Athens. Police use of tear gas
led to complaints from the local authorities as the prison lies
in a dense city zone.


Four Korydallos prison guards were hospitalised with breathing
problems.


Prisoners in Malandrino made a series of demands for reduced
sentences and longer leave but this was rejected by the Greek
justice ministry.


At the other prisons, inmates complained of overcrowding, a
prevalent problem at Greek correctional facilities.


The alleged beating of the inmate, a self-styled anarchist, was
followed by a series of vandalism incidents in Athens believed to
be staged in his support.


On Wednesday, a group of suspected anarchists threw stones and
firebombs at the private offices of Justice Minister Anastassis
Papaligouras and Culture Minister George Voulgarakis, formerly
minister of public order.


Earlier on Thursday, another group threw firebombs at the
headquarters of the Athens riot police department near the city
centre.

