

The US military charged a senior officer on Thursday with aiding
the enemy and fraternising with the daughter of an inmate in a
US-run prison camp, in the latest scandal to hit the military in
Iraq.


And in Washington, US General David Petraeus, head of the
coalition forces in Iraq, accused Iran's secretive Quds Force of
helping an armed network that killed five US soldiers in January
in the Shiite shrine city of Karbala.


The US military accused Lieutenant Colonel William Steele, who
commanded Camp Cropper on the outskirts of Baghdad, of aiding the
"enemy by providing an unmonitored cellular phone to detainees."


He was also accused of having unauthorised possession of
classified information, maintaining an improper relationship with
an Iraqi interpreter, failing to obey an order and possessing
pornographic videos.


The charge sheet also accuses him of "wilfully failing to fulfil
obligations as an approving authority" in the expenditure of
funds and of having improper contacts with the daughter of a
prisoner.


The charges cover a period of almost 17 months between October 1,
2005 and February 22, 2007.


Steele has been detained in Kuwait and will face a military
hearing to decide whether he should face charges, military
spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Josslyn Aberle told AFP in
Baghdad.


"He has been detained and is now in Kuwait. His current status is
that he is in confinement and waiting for his Article 32
hearing," she said.


Camp Cropper houses some "high-value" detainees, and before his
execution for crimes against humanity on December 30, ousted
dictator Saddam Hussein received medical treatment there.


Steele's arrest is the latest scandal to hit the US military
detention system since the 2003 invasion.


In 2004, pictures low-ranking soldiers abusing detainees at the
notorious Abu Ghraib prison west of the capital shocked the
world.


The images, which included photographs of bloodied and naked
prisoners smeared with excrement or being forced to perform
sexual acts, stoked anti-American sentiment.


Petraeus acknowledged in Washington that a complex and "very
tough" situation existed in Iraq, but also accused Iran's Quds
Force of helping an Iraqi network to murder five US soldiers in
Karbala.


On January 20, gunmen disguised in US military-style uniforms
breezed past checks and attacked a provincial security building
during a visit by American troops to their Iraqi counterparts.


One US soldier died in the assault and four were captured. Their
bodies were later found by Iraqi police.


The assault came nine days after US forces seized five Iranians
from the northern city of Arbil. They are still being detained.


In March, the military announced the arrest of two brothers, Qais
and Laith Khazali, in connection with the murders of five
soldiers. Petraeus now says that the Khazalis were supported by
Iran's Quds Force.


"There is no question that the Al-Khazali network was connected
to the Iranian Quds Force -- received money, training, arms,
ammunition, and at some points in time even advice and
assistance," he told reporters.


Petraeus said there was no concrete evidence that Iranians were
directly involved in the raid, however.


The bloodshed in Iraq continued on Thursday, leaving at least 29
people dead.


The confessionally divided province of Diyala, northeast of
Baghdad, was again a focus of violence when a suicide bomber blew
up a vehicle at a joint Iraqi army and police checkpoint, killing
nine soldiers.


Another 15 people were wounded in the bombing in the town of
Khalis, 10 of them soldiers, a security official said.


Diyala has emerged as one of the fiercest battlegrounds in Iraq,
the new focus of Sunni Al-Qaeda fighters who have been pushed out
of western Iraq and Baghdad by a more than two-month-old US and
Iraqi security operation.


In Baghdad itself, a car bomb in the southern Jadiriyah district
killed six people and wounded 18, a defence ministry official
said. Another five people were killed in other attacks in the
capital.


In Saddam's hometown of Tikrit, gunmen shot dead the wife and
daughter of Hashim Hassan al-Majid, brother of Ali Hassan al-
Majid, better known as Chemical Ali, police said.


Ali, a cousin of Saddam who served as his defence minister, is
currently facing charges of genocide over the deaths of tens of
thousands of Kurds during the 1988 military campaign in northern
Kurdistan.


Elsewhere seven people were killed, including three Kurdish
militiamen in Zammar, northwest of the main city of Mosul in
north Iraq.

