

Pakistani authorities have banned a stage play for ridiculing the
burqa, the veil traditionally worn by Muslim women, a minister
said after Islamist MPs raised the issue in parliament Thursday.


"The veil has long been part of local culture and nobody is
allowed to make fun of these values," Minister for Culture Ghazi
Gulab Jamal said.


The satirical play Burqa Vaganza was staged this month by Ajoka
Theatre at the Arts Council in the eastern city of Lahore, known
as the country's cultural capital.


Islamist women lawmakers raised the issue in the lower house,
saying that the play was against the "Koranic injunctions on the
veil."


The minister told the house that the government had banned the
play and "stopped (its) staging it in other cities," following
the end of its run in Lahore.


"We do not like that someone should ridicule our cultural values.
Burqa is very much part of our culture," Jamal said.


The theatre's owner, Madiha Gohar, condemned the ban, saying that
giving in to the Islamists' demands "negates the government's
policy of enlightened moderation."


"We are trying to end the evils from the society, we are against
forcing women to wear burqa. I condemn the ban," she said.


Gohar said the theme of the play reflected the aggressive
behaviour of the burqa-clad female students of Jamia Hafsa school
in Islamabad's Red Mosque.


Baton-wielding female and male students of two schools attached
to the Lal Masjid or Red Mosque have launched so-called morality
patrols targeting music and video shops and local brothels.


"We are against making mockery of any religion, be it Islam,
Christianity or Judaism," MP Samia Raheel Qazi told AFP.


"The play targetted hijab (veil) and hurt the feelings of Muslim
women. It also violated the country's constitution, which says
that nobody is allowed to hurt sentiments of the followers of any
religion," she added.


The Red Mosque's leader, Abdul Aziz, earlier this month announced
the creation of a self-styled Islamic court and threatened the
government with suicide attacks if it tried to shut the court
down.


The court then issued a fatwa or Islamic decree calling for the
sacking and punishment of Tourism Minister Nilofar Bakhtiar after
she was pictured hugging a foreign paragliding instructor after a
charity event.


The ban on the play comes as the government of President Pervez
Musharraf is locked in negotiations with the mosque's leaders in
a bid to avert a potentially violent confrontation.

