

US lawmakers moved towards a showdown with President George W.
Bush on Thursday after the House of Representatives approved a
war funding bill that requires pulling US troops out of Iraq
beginning in October.


The Senate was expected to approve the same measure on Thursday
that links 124 billion dollars in military spending for Iraq and
Afghanistan to a timetable for the withdrawal of American troops.


Bush has vowed to veto the bill backed by the Democratic
majority, saying the deadline for an Iraq pullout amounts to
"surrender."


"You heard the phrase that some things are dead on arrival. This
is dead before arrival," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told
the Fox News network.


She said Bush would promptly veto the bill after the Senate vote
but would be ready to meet with the Democratic leadership
afterward to negotiate "a bill that he can sign."


The narrow 218-208 vote in the House on Wednesday was along party
lines, with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi speaking of the thousands
of casualties endured by US troops and the "scores of thousands"
of Iraqi lives lost in the war.


The Democrat added the war would "cost well over a trillion
dollars if it ended today."


"The sacrifices borne by our troops and their families demand
more than the blank checks the president is asking for, for a war
without end," she said.


She urged Bush "to sign the bill so that we can focus on winning
the war against terrorism, which is the real threat to the
American people."


In Iraq, the move by the Democrats received mixed reactions.


"The United States is thus admitting it was defeated in Iraq and
must withdraw. This should be attributed to the effort and
patience of Iraqis," said Saleh Hassan Issa al-Igaili, an MP
loyal to Shiite radical leader Moqtada al-Sadr.


But other MPs said the vote in Congress was more about US
domestic politics.


"It's for local consumption," said Omar Abdul-Sattar Mahmud, a
Sunni MP from the Iraqi Islamic Party.


"However they agree or disagree is their business, not that of
the Iraqis," he said. "What we are concerned with is that there
should be real national reconciliation to break the
sectarianism."


US Democrats paid little heed to the visiting top army general in
Iraq, David Petraeus, who during a closed-door session earlier
Wednesday championed the president's troop "surge" strategy and
appealed for time so it could show results.


The Democrats were also boosted by the release of a poll that
showed a majority of Americans side with them on the issue and
believe victory in Iraq is no longer possible.


According to the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, 56 percent
said they agreed with setting a deadline for troop withdrawal,
while 37 percent sided with Bush in opposing the move.


The bill provides more cash than the administration sought to
bankroll operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, but says US troops
are to start withdrawing from Iraq in October, with a non-binding
target of completing the pullout by March 31.


Petraeus urged lawmakers to withhold judgment on the latest US
drive for success in Iraq despite a spike in violence including
in Diyala on Monday where nine US troops were killed.


He spoke of nearly "breathtaking" progress in parts of Iraq since
the US military began its "surge" of troops to secure the
country.


"We are ahead, I think, with respect ... to the reduction of
sectarian murders in Baghdad," he told reporters, after meeting
with representatives and senators in Congress.


"Progress in Anbar is almost something that's breathtaking," he
added, referring to the western Sunni province hit hard by a
violent insurgency.


Republican Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the House Armed
Services Committee, said Petraeus "reminded us... this is a test
of wills."


Ahead of the promised presidential veto both sides are scrambling
to squeeze the maximum political mileage out of the debate.


No one doubts that Congress will disburse the funds the Pentagon
is requesting -- but on terms that remain very much up in the
air.


The Democrats could release funds one small piece at a time to
keep the Iraq debate center-stage, or impose targets forcing the
administration to justify its claims of progress.

