

Afghan President Hamid Karzai said Thursday he was going into a
meeting with his Pakistan counterpart to "find solutions" to
mounting Taliban unrest even after Pervez Musharraf appeared to
call him a liar.


The two key allies in the US "war on terror" are to meet under
the mediation of Turkey from Sunday after months of bickering
with each accusing the other of not doing enough against the
extremists attacking on both sides of the border.


Musharraf criticised his Afghan counterpart ahead of the Turkey
meet in an interview with a Spanish paper, saying, "Those who do
nothing against terrorism, like Karzai, are also the ones who
criticise those who are fighting, like us."


"Those who say that the ISI (Pakistani military intelligence)
helps the Taliban because we want a weak Afghanistan are liars,"
Musharraf said in remarks printed in the El Pais daily Thursday.


Asked at a media briefing specifically about the label of "liar,"
Karzai said, "Yes, he has mentioned me."


He added: "We attend this meeting to find a solution for a
problem which is gripping Afghanistan, Pakistan and the region
with good intentions. We hope to come with good achievements."


"We hope to have achievements for peace in the region, peace in
Afghanistan and Pakistan, from the tripartite meeting... ."


Afghan authorities, including Karzai, and some of Afghanistan's
Western backers have accused Pakistan of turning a blind eye to
militant training centres and financial supporters on its soil.


Many say fundamentalist elements in the ISI, which helped bring
the Taliban to power in 1996, are especially involved.


Pakistan has always denied all the allegations, saying it has
arrested more senior Taliban and Al-Qaeda figures than the
Afghans.


Tensions have increased in recent weeks as Pakistan has started
to fence part of its 2,500-kilometre (1,500-mile) frontier with
Afghanistan after allegations it was not doing enough to stop the
crossborder movement of militants.


The Taliban were driven from government in late 2001 for
sheltering the Al-Qaeda terror network behind the September 11
attacks in the United States. Their insurgency was its deadliest
last year, with more than 4,000 people killed.

