

Poland's first post-communist prime minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki
has refused to comply with a new vetting law launched by the
ruling conservatives to extend an anti-communist purge.


His stance comes hard on the heels of similar defiance by Polish
European parliamentarian and former foreign minister Bronislaw
Geremek.


"This is an attempt to humiliate people... and I'm not sure that
I am under any obligation to fill in this form," Mazowiecki, 80,
was quoted by Poland's PAP news agency as saying Thursday after
being asked by the office of President Lech Kaczynski to fill in
a vetting declaration.


"I've already submitted three similar declarations in the past. I
have nothing to add to them. I did not collaborate with the
secret services" during the communist era, Mazowiecki said on
TVN24 news station.


Geremek, 75, a founder-member of the Solidarity trade union in
the 1980s, said Wednesday the so-called lustration law trumpeted
by President Kaczynski and his twin brother, Prime Minister
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, is "creating an Orwellian-style ministry of
truth" in Poland.


The prime minister said Thursday he regretted the two men's
decisions, which he said "harmed Poland."


The new law drastically extends the dragnet of earlier
legislation, which required some 30,000 lawmakers, government
ministers and judges to make sworn declarations stating whether
or not they collaborated with the communist-era secret police.


The expanded measures oblige some 700,000 more Poles --
academics, journalists, managers of state-owned firms, school
principals, diplomats and lawyers -- to file such affidavits or
face the sack.


They will be checked by the National Remembrance Institute (IPN),
which earlier this month charged former Polish president, General
Wojciech Jaruzelski, with "communist crimes" for declaring
martial law in 1981.


Anyone found to have fudged the truth in their declaration is
barred from their profession for 10 years. Failure to fill in a
form could cost a refusenik their job.


"A law like this reflects governance based on exploitation and
the creation of conflicts. It instills a sense of unease among
citizens and a feeling that they are completely dependent on
those in power," Geremek said in an opinion piece published
Thursday in French newspaper Le Monde.


Geremek said he refused to submit to the vetting procedure to
show that he "finds this new law unacceptable in democratic
Europe."


His defiance was not aimed at "pleading my own cause, but the
cause of democratic, European Poland," he said.


Academics and journalists have also vowed to stand up to the law,
and members of Poland's liberal and ex-communist opposition have
asked the Constitutional Court to rule on its constitutionality.


The court is expected to start considering the matter early next
month.


The speaker of the European parliament, Germany's Hans-Gert
Poettering, said Thursday that the assembly would do all in its
power to keep Geremek in his job, and that leaders of the
parliament's political groups were wholly behind their colleague.


And in a rare criticism of a fellow EU member, France also came
out in support of Geremek on Thursday.


European Affairs Minister Catherine Colonna said in a statement
she had telephoned Geremek to assure him of her "friendly support
and solidarity."


"A founder nation of the European Union and home to the European
Parliment, France is particularly vigilant concerning the respect
of the fundamental values on which European construction is
based," Colonna said.


Polish officials said Geremek would keep his European
parliamentary seat until the formal procedure to remove him from
his post has been completed in Poland.


The first step will be taken on May 7 when the National Electoral
Commission (PKW) submits a motion to the speaker of the Polish
lower house, Marek Jurek.


The final decision on whether Geremek should be stripped of his
European mandate rests with Jurek, who has said he will seek
"additional legal expertise" on the case once he has received the
motion from the PKW.

