

Qatar on Thursday became the leading shareholder in J Sainsbury,
Britain's third biggest supermarket chain, extending the Gulf
state's economic reach into the country.


Qatari investment fund Delta Limited said in a statement it had
bought more than 302 million shares in J Sainsbury on Wednesday.


Added to 300,000 shares already owned by Qatar Prime Minister
Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani, the gas-rich state
owned 17.424 percent of the supermarket company.


The Sainsbury family, which founded the group in 1869, owns about
14.0 percent.


Earlier this month J Sainsbury snubbed a consortium takeover bid
for the group said to have been worth about 10.1 billion pounds
(14.9 billion euros, 19.9 billion dollars).


Qatari interests are also trying to secure a major property
portfolio in plush west London.


The share price in Sainsbury rebounded on news of Qatar's fresh
investment, and was later flat at 568.00 pence on London's rising
FTSE 100 index.


That gave the group a stock market capitalization of 9.9 billion
pounds.


Sainsbury employs 155,000 staff and has 769 supermarket branches
across Britain.


The supermarket chain is the third largest in the country after
sector leader Tesco and number two Asda, which is owned by US
giant Wal-Mart.


Earlier this month private equity groups Blackstone, CVC and
Texas Pacific Group abandoned their consortium takeover plans for
J Sainsbury.


According to newspaper reports, the consortium had increased its
informal bid for the company to 582 pence per share.


However, media reports suggested the proposed offer price had
failed to win over the Sainsbury family, which is reportedly
holding out for 600 pence per share.


Sainsbury, meanwhile, is not Qatar's only current major
investment in Britain. The Middle East nation is said to be a key
investor in a ritzy development that will overlook Hyde Park when
completed in 2009.


Jabr al-Thani, who doubles as Qatar's foreign minister, is
reported to have bought one of the apartment's for 100 million
pounds, the most paid for a flat in London.


Earlier this month, Qatar was part of a consortium that bought
Chelsea Barracks for about one billion pounds. The former army
barracks are set to be turned into luxury housing.

