

At least 22 Rwandan Hutu rebels have died in a crackdown by the
Democratic Republic of Congo's armed forces in the sprawling
African nation's restive east, an army official said Thursday.


"The FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda rebel
group) have suffered serious losses," Colonel Delphin Kahimbi,
the army's second-in-command in the restive North Kivu region
told AFP.


"We have counted 22 bodies but there are sure to be more
casualties and more wounded in their ranks," he added.


"One of our soldiers has been slightly wounded. The enemy did not
put up a stiff resistance. The fighting did not last more than an
hour."


DR Congo soldiers began the offensive in North Kivu on Tuesday,
deploying six battalions, or about 3,500 men, to secure two
arterial roads linking the town of Goma, the regional capital,
and Ishasha on the Ugandan border.


On April 16, suspected FDLR rebels attacked a minibus on the road
between Goma and Ishasha, killing a student. Three days earlier,
they exchanged gunfire with Congolese soldiers on the same road.


Kahimbi on Thursday said the roads had been "practically secured"
and "all the defensive positions of the rebels captured."


Rwandan Hutu fighters, estimated to be about 10,000-strong by the
United Nations, are still present in eastern DR Congo where they
continue to terrorise locals.


They led 14 attacks last month in the Walungu and Kabare areas,
according to Kemal Saiki, spokesperson for the UN mission in the
DR Congo (MONUC).


Another 72 people were kidnapped and several rapes were reported.


Some of the rebels are accused of having participated in the
Rwandan genocide in 1994. Some 800,000 people, most of them
ethnic Tutsis, were killed within six weeks in Rwanda in 1994 by
members of the Hutu ethnic group.


The UN High Commissioner for Refugees meanwhile asked the
government forces Thursday "to ensure that protection of
civilians was of top priority during the military raids."


It underscored that 64,000 people had been displaced in the last
few weeks in DR Congo's troubled zones.

