

A brother-in-law of Martin McGuinness, the man expected to become
Northern Ireland's deputy first minister, appeared in court on
Thursday in connection with a cross-border kidnapping and
assault.


Marvin Canning is facing seven charges linked to the kidnap and
assault of a man and woman who were abducted from their home in
County Westmeath in the Republic of Ireland.


The 45-year-old is the brother of Sinn Fein chief negotiator
Martin McGuinness's wife, Bernie. Sinn Fein is Northern Ireland's
largest Catholic party and the political wing of the Irish
Republic Army (IRA).


McGuinness is expected to become the number to two to the
Protestant Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Ian Paisley in
the power-sharing government in Belfast when it resumes after a
five-year gap in May.


The assembly was set up by the Good Friday peace accords in 1998,
which largely ended sectarian violence in the British-run
province.


It was suspended in 2002 amid claims of a republican spy ring
operating at the assembly buildings and its restoration has been
dogged since by Protestant concerns over continued republican
paramilitary activity and criminality.


Canning was remanded in custody when he appeared before
magistrates in Londonderry, in the north-west of Northern
Ireland, on Thursday. Another hearing was scheduled for May 24.


The man and the woman were found in the early hours of Tuesday
morning lying battered and bleeding in a street in the
nationalist Creggan area of Londonderry. The man had also been
shot in the lower legs.


Canning is facing a variety of charges, including false
imprisonment, kidnap, causing grievous bodily harm with intent
and possessing a firearm with intent.


The police officer who arrested and charged Canning told the
court he had denied any connection with the alleged offences
during seven interviews.


McGuinness, who was the IRA's second-in-command in Londonderry on
"Bloody Sunday", when 13 unarmed civil rights protesters were
shot dead by British paratroopers in 1972, later confirmed he was
Canning's brother-in-law.


"Whoever carried out this attack, I absolutely and unequivocally
condemn it. Such attacks have no place in our society. Those
responsible must be made accountable through our courts," he
said.

