

Frederic Michalak will likely play a larger role when Toulouse
take on strugglers Narbonne in the French Top 14 this weekend
with one eye firmly on a place in the league play-offs.


Michalak, who next season will play for South African side Natal
Sharks, made his comeback from a long injury lay-off last week
but played only 10 minutes against Castres.


With third-placed Toulouse looking to cement their place in the
league's top four, returning captain Fabien Pelous said: "We have
destiny in our own hands. It's up to us to get at least a point
up on the teams behind us before the last match.


"We are in good form and the fact that Biarritz play Perpignan
really gives us a boost because one of the two will drop points."


For Narbonne, the game against the former three-time European
champions offers them the chance to go one step closer to
avoiding a first-ever relegation from the French top tier.


Narbonne coach Pierre Chadebech said his club's task was simple:
"To win two of the four remaining games."


They go into the match level on 39 points with Brive, just two
points ahead of bottom-placed Montpellier, who host Albi, in
ninth spot on 41 points.


Also in the mix are Agen (on 42 points), Bayonne and Castres
(both 40 points). The relegation fight is made all the more
intense by the fact that Agen take on Bayonne and Castres host
Brive.


Fifth-placed Biarritz travel to Perpignan in the knowledge that a
win would see them leapfrog their hosts into fourth.


Perpignan's Tongan backrow forward Viliani Vaki stressed that his
club were fully aware of the importance of the game.


"If we lose, it will be really difficult to get to the semi-
finals. But if we win, we'll have a great chance of qualifying,"
he said, adding that it could be a tight battle.


"Discipline will be the decider but we must also be focused on
defence.


"Biarritz are a very good, solid team. They'll be coming to win
this match because if they lose they have little chance of
getting to the semis."


Table-toppers Stade Francais and second-placed Clermont host
Montauban and Bourgoin, seventh and sixth in the league
respectively.


Stade welcome back the vaunted quartet of Christophe Dominici and
forwards Pieter De Villiers, Rodrigo Roncero and Sergio Parisse
for Montauban, who sprung a surprise win over the high-rolling
Parisians at home.


Friday


Narbonne v Toulouse


Saturday


Perpignan v Biarritz, Clermont v Bourgoin, Stade Francais v
Montauban, Agen v Bayonne, Montpellier v Albi, Castres v Brive

