

Estonian authorities cordoned off a Soviet war monument in
central Tallinn Thursday ahead of its planned removal to a less
prominent location, sparking a new angry response from Moscow.


The Bronze Soldier statue, which commemorates Soviet Red Army
troops who drove the Nazis out of Estonia at the end of World War
II, was fenced off and covered with a large white tent to keep
pro-Russian protesters at bay while excavation work is carried
out.


"In an effort to ensure that any human remains we might find at
the site are treated in a respectful and dignified manner... a
special tent has been set up at the scene," the defence ministry,
which is in charge of war graves, said in a statement.


Last week, the Estonian government said it intended to start
digging at the huge statue to determine if any fallen soldiers
lay buried beneath it.


That and the plan to move the statue from its prominent position
at a public transportation hub in the very heart of Tallinn, has
provoked angry outbursts from Moscow, which views the monument as
a memorial to those who defeated fascism in World War II.


"We consider the actions by Estonia as an attempt to rewrite the
lessons of World War II," Mikhail Kamynin, a Russian foreign
ministry spokesman, was quoted by Moscow's Interfax news agency
as saying Thursday.


Kamynin said the Estonian government's plan to move the monument
and remains of Soviet Red Army soldiers believed to be buried
underneath was "inhuman."


"Naturally, this will be taken into consideration in working out
our relations with Estonia in the future," he warned.


Many Estonians, meanwhile, see the statue as a painful reminder
of nearly 50 years of Soviet occupation, which began at the end
of the war and only ended in 1991 when the USSR crumbled.


Riot police had formed a human chain around the monument at 4:30
am (0130 GMT) Thursday to keep protesters at bay and allow the
site to be fenced off and prepared for the excavation work.


By midday, the riot police had left, but ordinary police patrols
remained to keep agitated onlookers from climbing the fence.


Dozens of people were at the site, watching the activity around
the monument on Thursday afternoon.


Supporters of the monument occasionally chanted "Shame on
Estonia", and some had stuck red carnations in the fence.


Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said Estonia has not yet decided how
to respond to a diplomatic note received last week from Russia,
in which Moscow warned of "serious consequences" if bodies of
soldiers that might be found under the monument are exhumed.


"The handling of the monument is a matter for Estonia," Ansip
told reporters Thursday.


"We don't consider it necessary to hold deep discussions with the
Russian authorities over the internal affairs of Estonia," he
said.


"I stress that there has never been any talk in Estonia of
demolishing the monument," Ansip said.


"This is a tombstone that will go with any remains we might find,
which will be given a decent and dignified reburial," he said.

