

British army chiefs are reconsidering plans for Prince Harry to
be deployed in Iraq, amid warnings that he could be killed or
kidnapped as a high-profile target, officials said Thursday,


In reaction Harry, due to join his fellow soldiers in the next
few weeks, was reportedly ready to leave the army if he was not
allowed to go to the violence- scarred country.


The Ministry of Defence said the 22-year-old's deployment was
under "constant consideration" by senior officers, after a
newspaper report that army bosses are reviewing the decision amid
a record surge in British deaths in Iraq.


The Sun newspaper said the second lieutenant could be stopped
from being sent to southern Iraq because insurgents might target
him, putting his troops in extra danger.


Such a decision would likely infuriate the prince, third-in-line
to the British throne, who has reportedly threatened to quit the
army if he was held back from front line duty.


"Prince Harry's deployment to Iraq is, as we've always said,
under constant consideration," said an MoD spokeswoman. "It is
still our intent that Prince Harry will deploy as a troop
leader."


April has been one of the deadliest months for British forces in
Iraq since the US-led invasion of March 2003. Some 11 lives have
been lost, including a corporal doing Harry's armoured
reconnaissance troop leader job.


Harry is known as Cornet Wales in the Blues and Royals regiment
of the Household Cavalry, in which he is responsible for a troop
of 11 soldiers and four Scimitar reconnaissance vehicles.


The MoD confirmed in February that Harry would be deployed to
Iraq. His six- month tour was expected to start in May.


The Sun said the army was reconsidering his deployment. "It's
very complicated," a source told the newspaper. "No one wants to
gift a PR victory to the insurgents by withdrawing him.


"But there is a groundswell of opinion across senior ranks now
that to allow Harry to serve in the open with his men will lead
to an inevitable disaster."


Citing militant sources, the Observer newspaper said Sunday that
Iraqi militia groups had drawn up detailed plans to seize Harry
as a hostage.


An MoD spokesman told the weekly: "The bad guys know that he's
coming and we expect that they will consider him a high-profile
scalp."


A source in the Household Cavalry told Britain's domestic Press
Association news agency: "This comes as a huge surprise. As of
today, as far as the regiment's concerned, he is definitely,
definitely going.


"This is what he signed up for and if he doesn't go, he will sign
off and leave. He joined the army for a bit of excitement and for
him to be told he's not going would be awful," the source said.


In an interview to mark his 21st birthday, Harry said: "There's
no way I'm going to put myself through Sandhurst (the elite
military academy) and then sit on my arse back home while my boys
are out fighting for their country."


Harry would become the first British royal to see active service
since his uncle Prince Andrew flew helicopters in the 1982
Falklands War with Argentina.


A BBC radio text message poll found people were hugely in favour
of Harry being allowed to deploy.


Former defence minister Michael Portillo warned against Prince
Harry being allowed to go to Iraq.


"It would be, I'm afraid, an absolute disaster for us to allow
the third in line to the throne either to be killed or to be
kidnapped," he told Sky News.

