

Nigeria's leading opposition party Thursday called for the
cancellation of disputed presidential elections last weekend,
saying it would refuse to recognise a government issued from the
poll.


The country's electoral commission, INEC, meanwhile annnounced
by-elections next Saturday, April 28, in 27 states where polls
had to be cancelled due to logistical problems, such as ballot
paper printing errors and voting delays.


In the capital, Abuja, the All Nigeria's Peoples Party (ANPP)
whose candidate came a distant second in the race for the
presidency, said it was ready to call its members into the street
to press for a re-run of the vote.


The election has been roundly condemned by foreign and local
observers as falling short of international democratic standards.


"ANPP will not recognise any government installed on the basis of
the election of 21st April this year," said Edwin Ume Ezeoke,
ANPP national chairman.


"Any government installed on the basis of the April 21st election
is an illegal government. We are not going to recognise or
cooperate with that government," Ezeoke said.


The ANPP chairman was presidential running mate to Muhammadu
Buhari, who won 6.6 million votes, well behind ruling party
winner Umaru Yar'Adua with 24.6 million.


"We call for the total cancellation of the presidential election
while requesting for a fresh election immediately," Ezeoke said.


He said the party would back action to have the vote annulled.


"We are prepared to join in any mass action, whether you call it
protest or demonstration, to ensure the proper democratic
government is installed in this country," Ezeoke said.


A coalition of opposition parties and some civil society
organsations have agreed to peaceful protests next week.


INEC spokesman Philip Umeadi said the electoral body would
conduct elections for the governorship post in south-eastern Imo
state, 11 senatorial seats, 48 House of Representatives and 57
State Houses of Assembly seats spread across 27 states.


"Most of the by-elections are as a result of the exclusion of the
logos of certain political parties from the ballot papers and
their refusal to continue with the elections,"  Umeadi told
reporters.


Nigeria's first round of widely flawed elections began with
gubernatorial and state assemblies polls on April 14, followed by
the parliamentary and presidential polls of April 21.


In Lagos, the economic hub of the world's sixth exporter of oil,
rescheduled elections will be held in two out of the three
senatorial districts.


The Nigerian polls have been slammed by several groups, including
the US and EU as the worst in the African nation's recent
history.

