

The US Congress drove Thursday towards a showdown with President
George W. Bush over legislation that ties Iraq war funding to an
October 1 start date for a US troop withdrawal.


With the fourth anniversary of Bush's May 1, 2003 "Mission
Accomplished" speech looming, the House of Representatives
approved the 124-billion-dollar bill late Wednesday and the
Senate was expected to follow suit Thursday.


The bill provides more cash than Bush sought to bankroll
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, but says US troops are to
start withdrawing from Iraq in October, with a non-binding target
of completing the pullout by March 31.


"The president has said that we need to get the process over
with, in terms of them sending him a bill and him vetoing it so
that we can take the next step," said Bush spokeswoman Dana
Perino.


"So it will be soon, but I can't give you a date, or time,"
Perino said, as the White House and its Republican allies
defended the deeply unpopular conflict and charged that any
withdrawal timetable was a recipe for disaster.


The bill could reach Bush on May 1, the fourth anniversary of his
2003 speech on the deck of the US aircraft carrier USS Abraham
Lincoln, in which he declared "victory" in Iraq under a giant
"Mission Accomplished" banner.


Perino suggested that the president's Democratic critics had
dragged out the legislative process in order to tie it to the
speech, calling that a "ridiculous PR (public relations) stunt"
and "the height of cynicism."


The "Mission Accomplished" speech, in which he declared "major
combat" over, has dogged Bush as the symbol of what critics
charge is his excessive optimism about the conflict.


The narrow 218-208 vote in the House on Wednesday was along party
lines.


Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi cited the more than 3,200
US soldiers dead, the "scores of thousands" of Iraqi lives lost,
and warned that the war would cost more than a trillion dollars
even if it ended today.


"The sacrifices borne by our troops and their families demand
more than the blank checks the president is asking for, for a war
without end," Pelosi said.


In Iraq, the move by the Democrats received mixed reactions.


"The United States is thus admitting it was defeated in Iraq and
must withdraw," said Saleh Hassan Issa al-Igaili, an MP loyal to
radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


But other MPs said the vote in Congress was more about US
domestic politics.


"It's for local consumption," said Omar Abdul-Sattar Mahmud, a
Sunni MP from the Iraqi Islamic Party. "What we are concerned
with is that there should be real national reconciliation to
break the sectarianism."


Democrats paid little heed to the visiting top army general in
Iraq, David Petraeus, who during a closed-door session with
members of Congress Wednesday pleaded for patience with the new
US-led security crackdown in Baghdad and al- Anbar province.


A new poll showed a majority of Americans side with the Democrats
on the issue and believe victory in Iraq is no longer possible.


According to the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, 56 percent
said they agreed with setting a deadline for troop withdrawal,
while 37 percent sided with Bush in opposing the move.


Petraeus urged lawmakers to withhold judgment on the latest US
drive for success in Iraq despite a spike in violence including
in Diyala on Monday where nine US troops were killed.


He spoke of nearly "breathtaking" progress in parts of Iraq since
the US military began its "surge" of troops to secure the
country.


Republican Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the House Armed
Services Committee, said Petraeus "reminded us ... this is a test
of wills."


The next steps are unclear: Few doubt that Congress will disburse
the funds, but exactly on what terms remains a mystery.

