

India's biggest private company, Reliance Industries, on Thursday
reported fourth quarter net profit rose by a better than expected
14 percent, led by improved margins.


For the three months ended March 31, net profit rose to 28.53
billion rupees (699 million dollars), beating market forecasts of
27.3 billion rupees, on sales which rose 5.5 percent to 259.8
billion rupees.


Full-year net profit jumped 20.1 percent to 109 billion rupees on
sales   which climbed 24 percent to 1.1 trillion (25.51 billion
dollars), the company said in a statement.


Gross refining margins (GRM) for Reliance's oil business rose 11
percent in the fourth quarter to 13 dollars per barrel against
10.4 dollars per barrel a year earlier.


"Reliance's reported GRMs are substantially higher than all the
benchmarks, including the US Gulf Coast margins," the company
said.


During the fourth quarter, Reliance processed 8.1 million tonnes
of crude, reflecting average utilization of over 98 percent.


For the full year, the refinery processed 31.7 million tonnes of
crude.


"Our petrochemicals and refining business recorded its best-ever
performance and we made substantial investments in our future
growth engines" such as oil exploration and production and retail
business, chairman Mukesh Ambani said.


Reliance's latest business venture, stores under the "Reliance
Fresh" banner, now has 135 outlets covering 16 cities nationwide.


The new stores are part of a cross-country retail rollout that
began last November in southern India. The retail foray comes as
companies seek to tap India's increasingly affluent middle class,
estimated at 300 million in what commentators have dubbed the
"great Indian retail gold rush."


Reliance added 46 fuel stations in the fourth quarter to bring
outlets to  1,385 by end-March, the statement said.


Shares of Reliance Industries rose 1.56 percent to a day's high
of 1,624.8 before retracing on profit-taking to close at 1,596.7,
down 3.1 rupees or 0.19 percent.


Reliance, the largest private sector oil exploration acreage
holder, has an aggressive programme lined up, the company said.


"Drilling is proposed in ten out of the 27 blocks along with
extensive seismic studies covering all major basins," the company
said.


Reliance currently operates with a fleet of three rigs, with
plans to mobilize two additional rigs, which are expected to be
in operation later this year.


Last year, the Reliance group was split in a restructuring aimed
at settling a bitter feud between the two brothers of the
founding Ambani family.


Under the deal, Reliance Industries focuses mainly on oil and gas
production under the leadership of elder brother Mukesh.


He is building a new 6.1-billion-dollar, export-oriented refinery
alongside the existing plant in Jamnagar to make it the world's
biggest petroleum refining hub.


Reliance's other assets, such as telecoms, power and financial
services, were hived off to younger brother Anil Ambani.

