

Steven Gerrard has insisted that Liverpool are capable of
overturning a 1-0 first leg deficit against Chelsea to clinch a
second Champions League final spot in three years.


Joe Cole's first-half goal at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday has
left the Premiership champions as slight favourites to go through
to the Athens showpiece, whether either Manchester United or AC
Milan will be waiting for the winners.


But Reds skipper Gerrard, who has enjoyed so many memorable
nights at Anfield, is confident that next Tuesday can be another
one to savour for Rafael Benitez's squad.


"Chelsea have got the advantage and obviously we'd have liked a
better result to take back to Anfield, but we're not down yet.
It's still game on," Gerrard said.


"If we score first at Anfield we could be in for a very good
second leg.


"They're happy with the result, but they'll have to show us a lot
of respect in the second leg because they know it's not over."


Liverpool will be buoyed by memories of their 1-0 win at Anfield
when the two sides met at the same stage of the competition two
years ago, as well as by their 2-0 win there in this season's
Premiership fixture.


Gerrard argued: "They've witnessed the atmosphere at Anfield
before and they know we're capable of beating them at Anfield, as
we've done before and shown in the Premiership this season.


"It's half-time. We would have preferred a better scoreline, but
it's not over."


Gerrard came close to equalising for Liverpool on Wednesday when
his volley was turned away superbly by Petr Cech, but overall
Chelsea were worthy winners and might easily have put the contest
beyond doubt.


The England midfielder admitted: "We dominated possession in the
second half without creating chances, although their keeper has
pulled off a top save from my volley.


"I don't think any other keeper in Europe would have saved that
because I was already thinking I was away to celebrate.


"The manager told us to be more positive in the second half and
said we hadn't kept the ball positively enough.


"He wanted us to hurt them more, but we're confident we can do
that at Anfield with the crowd behind us.


"We'll raise the tempo and the first 20 minutes will be
important. If we score first, let's see what happens then."

