

A group of around 50 suspected anarchists on Thursday attacked a
police station in central Athens with firebombs, destroying
several police cars and causing minor damage to the building
itself, the Greek public order ministry said.


The hooded attackers destroyed two squad cars, four unmarked
police cars and an unmarked police motorcycle, in addition to
private cars and motorcycles parked nearby, the ministry said.


The front side of the police station was damaged in the attack,
as was the entrance of a neighbouring block of flats, but nobody
was injured.


Five officers guarding the station threw stun grenades at the
youths but were unable to prevent the attack.


Television footage showed the entire street covered in thick
smoke.


The incident in the working class district of Exarcheia, an
anarchist stronghold, marks the second straight day of vandalism
in the area which borders the affluent district of Kolonaki.


On Wednesday, a group of suspected anarchists threw stones and
firebombs at the private offices of Justice Minister Anastassis
Papaligouras and Culture Minister George Voulgarakis, formerly
minister of public order.


Earlier on Thursday, another group threw firebombs at the
headquarters of the Athens riot police department near the city
centre.


The Greek opposition has called for the resignation of Public
Order Minister Vyron Polydoras.


These prior attacks are believed to be linked to the alleged
beating of a self- declared anarchist held at a Greek prison on
Monday.


News of the alleged beating caused a protest at the prison at
Malandrino, around 200 kilometres (125 miles) northwest of
Athens, and inmates at another 10 prisons around the country also
began protests on Tuesday, complaining about overcrowding at each
facility.


Order was restored at most of the facilities the same day. Some
200 inmates at Malandrino held on, occupying the prison roof for
three days but returning to their cells earlier on Thursday.


Private television station MEGA on Thursday said an anonymous
caller said the attack on the police station was held in support
of the protesting prisoners.

