

Two of the world's most secretive nations, Myanmar and North
Korea, agreed Thursday to restore diplomatic ties in a move
analysts say may help them bypass Western sanctions.


China, which claims good relations with both countries, promptly
welcomed the announcement but human rights groups warned that
closer ties must not lead to further repression.


The countries have been branded "outposts of tyranny" by the
United States but have had no formal bilateral relations for more
than two decades.


That has now changed after the North's deputy foreign minister
Kim Yong-Il met with his Myanmar counterpart Kyaw Thu for an hour
in Yangon.


China's ambassador to Myanmar, Guan Mu, was seen with them as
they left the meeting and headed to a Yangon hotel. Two hours
later, Kyaw Thu announced the accord.


"This morning we signed an agreement to restore diplomatic ties,"
Kyaw Thu told reporters, adding they would notify the United
Nations to formalise the procedures.


The United States has in the past warned of warming military ties
between the two, and in 2004 accused North Korea of seeking to
sell surface-to-surface missiles to Myanmar's military
government.


South Korea welcomed Myanmar's decision to restore ties with the
North, saying it could promote regional peace.


China also welcomed the agreement but did not say if it played
any role in the deal.


"We are happy to see and welcome the improvement of their
bilateral ties," foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao told
reporters in Beijing.


But human rights campaigners sounded a note of warning.


The countries "are among the most repressive states in the
world," said Kay Seok, a Seoul-based researcher for Human Rights
Watch, who expressed fears for the future of North Korean
refugees fleeing via Myanmar.


"If the Burmese government agrees to arrest and repatriate them
to North Korea, that would be a terrible thing -- leaving the
country without permission carries heavy punishment," she added.


Both countries are international outcasts in their own way --
Myanmar has been under military rule in various guises since 1962
and is widely accused of rights abuses.


Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, whose National League for
Democracy party won 1990 elections but has never been allowed to
take office, has spent more than a decade under house arrest.


As for North Korea, its people are impoverished but the hardline
Stalinist regime led by the unpredictable Kim Jong-Il stunned the
world with its first ever nuclear weapons test last October.


Myanmar severed ties with North Korea in 1983 after a bid by
Pyongyang to assassinate South Korea's visiting then-president
Chun Doo Hwan.


Chun survived but 17 of his entourage were killed, as well as
four Myanmar officials, in the bombing at the cherished Martyr's
Mausoleum near the famous Shwedagon pagoda.


Analysts said the two nations may have felt drawn together in
recent years with a shared perception they have a common foe in
the United States and the West more broadly.


"These countries are at odds with the US and the West. All
countries that are odds with the US should work together, that is
their idea," Thailand-based analyst Aung Naing Oo said.


"It's not a secret that the Burmese military admires North Korea
for being able to square off with the United States with the
nuclear issue."


Closer ties could also provide more practical benefits, with both
countries under a raft of sanctions -- North Korea over nuclear
weapons and Myanmar for rights abuses.


"There is an arms embargo on the Burmese military, so maybe the
Burmese military is looking for (North Korean) arms systems using
Burmese resources -- like rice. You don't have to pay with hard
currency, you could barter," Aung Naing Oo said.


The two countries may also believe that teaming up will provide
them added clout in handling Washington, Myanmar military analyst
Win Min said.


"For Burma, having North Korea will give some leverage in dealing
with the US, so they can continue somehow to deal with their
weapons systems," Win Min said.

