

An Indian judge ordered the arrest of Hollywood star Richard Gere
and Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty on Thursday over a hug and
kiss at an AIDS awareness event.


The arrest warrants were issued in the Rajasthan state capital of
Jaipur following a public interest plea filed last week by
resident Poonam Chand Bhandari accusing the pair of obscenity,
court officials said.


"Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Dinesh Gupta issued the
(arrest) orders," a court official told AFP from Jaipur, 375
kilometres (232 miles) from Jodhpur.


Gere embraced the 31-year-old Shetty -- winner of Britain's
Celebrity Big Brother reality show -- and planted several kisses
on her cheek in front of thousands of onlookers at the AIDS
function in the Indian capital New Delhi earlier this month.


The incident triggered a public storm in India, known for its
chaste public behaviour despite Bollywood's sexually suggestive
song-and-dance routines.


There was no immediate comment available from either of the stars
on the arrest warrants.


The kissing incident triggered protests across the country with
demonstrators burning effigies of Gere.


News reports have identified the Jaipur complainant as a lawyer
and had said he had accused the duo of committing "an obscene
act" in a public place.


Another complaint was filed in court earlier this month against
the stars in in Ghaziabad, a satellite city of New Delhi.


The complainants' lawyer Ramautar Gupta said at the time, "It is
all indecency and nudity, which our society cannot tolerate."


Obscenity is punishable by a maximum of two years' imprisonment
and a fine of 2,000 rupees (45 dollars) in India.


Radical Hindus burned effigies of the 57-year-old Gere in India's
entertainment hub of Mumbai and organised street rallies in New
Delhi after the actor's affectionate display.


The opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party had
condemned the incident, saying "such a public display is not part
of Indian tradition."


Gere, who left India soon after the event, is a frequent visitor
as a follower of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, who
lives in the country in exile, besides in his capacity as an AIDS
awareness campaigner.


India has the largest number of HIV-AIDS cases in the world, with
5.7 million people infected, according to the Geneva-based
UNAIDS.


Shetty had appealed for calm after the kissing incident, telling
reporters that Gere had asked her to say he was "sorry if he has
hurt the sentiments of Indian people."


"Nothing of that sort happened about which I should feel bad or
any other Indian should feel bad," said Shetty.


Explaining what lead Gere to kiss her on the stage, she said they
were discussing his recent film "Shall We Dance."


"I was telling him that he was really good in the film and we
were joking about it. In an impromptu move, he did a dance step
from the film with me, kissing me on my cheek, thanking me,"
Shetty said, according to the Press Trust of India.


Gere was only seeking to entertain the audience and communicate
in a Bollywood style because he did not speak Hindi, she added.


Shetty, who grabbed the Big Brother prize in January after being
subjected to alleged racist bullying during the show, shot to
international fame after appearing in the British TV programme.

