

Shiite militants of Hezbollah erected a large photograph of two
Israeli soldiers it is holding on Lebanon's border with the
Jewish state Thursday, an AFP correspondent saw.


A crowd of the group's supporters chanted slogans as the three-
metre by five- metre (10 foot by 16 foot) photograph was put up
by unarmed Hezbollah militants in this border district near where
the soldiers were seized.


The photograph was a montage of old pictures already circulated
in Israel of the two men in civilian clothes before their capture
in the deadly July 12, 2006, raid that triggered a 34-day Israeli
war on Hezbollah in Lebanon.


Mounted on a huge black placard draped in a Hezbollah flag, the
photograph showed Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev in profile
facing each other.


Between them was the legend in English and Arabic -- "For the
sake of our detainees", a reference to Hezbollah's demands to
exchange them for prisoners held by Israel.


The dozen or so Hezbollah militants who erected the photograph
were unarmed.


Chants in support of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah rang out
from the crowd of local villagers who gathered to watch them put
it up. "We will sacrifice ourselves for you, Nasrallah," they
shouted.


A patrol from the UN peacekeeping force UNIFIL monitored the
event, as did an Israeli patrol on the other side of the border.


A military source in northern Israel dismissed the action as a
"propaganda operation."


"It is a classic move on the part of Hezbollah, which has
previously done the same," the source said on condition of
anonymity.


In the last few months, Hezbollah has raised flags, banners and
pictures of its "martyrs" in an apparent show of defiance along
the border with Israel.


One placard showed an Israeli helicopter in flames near the
village of Qawzah where the group claims to have downed a gunship
which crashed in the area during the war last year.


"If you come back (to Lebanon), we will combat you again," read a
nearby picture showing Hezbollah fighters.


Near the coastal town of Naqura -- where the UN peacekeeping
force maintains its headquarters -- Hezbollah put up a large
mural portraying one of the Israeli warships struck by the
guerrilla groups during last year's war.


A beefed-up UN peacekeeping force is patrolling the volatile
border area along with Lebanese soldiers under the terms of a UN-
brokered truce that ended the war last year and was meant to keep
Hezbollah away from the frontier.


Lebanese authorities say that Hezbollah continues to have a
presence in the area, but no arms or military equipment are
visible.


And since February, witnesses have reported seen apparently
unarmed Hezbollah militants staging patrols on motorbikes along
the border area which had been under Hezbollah control for years.

