

Three Indonesian governors vowed Thursday to take steps to reduce
logging in their provinces where large tracts of jungle are fast
disappearing.


The governors of Aceh, Papua and West Papua provinces issued a
joint declaration to better protect their forests after a meeting
with World Bank officials on climate change, on the Indonesian
resort island of Bali.


Aceh governor Irwandi Yusuf agreed to a temporary ban on logging
in the province on the northern tip of Sulawesi island where
forests were being cleared for timber, farming and urban
development.


Governors of Papua and West Papua provinces promised to revoke
logging licences of companies that stripped their tropical
forests without replanting or assisting local communities.


Papua governor Barnabas Suebu said forests were being logged with
little return for the province. The tropical logs were sold
overseas at marked up prices to be made into furniture and other
products.


He said most Papuan wood went to China.


Both Suebu and West Papua governor Abraham Octavian Atururi also
said they were "committed to allocating up to five million
hectares (123 million acres) of forest for carbon trading"
between them.


The carbon market is the centrepiece of the UN Kyoto protocol's
approach for tackling greenhouse gases that cause climate change.


All three governors said funds from carbon trading could be used
to hire thousands of rangers to protect their forests from
illegal loggers which were devastating vast tracts.


Atururi said that in addition to manpower, he also needed better
equipment to patrol and safeguard forests.


"We need equipment, especially helicopters to guard our forests
well because the area is so large and it would be impossible to
solely guard it from the ground," he said.


The Indonesian government estimates illegal logging has cost the
country around four billion dollars and some 2.8 million hectares
of forest cover per year over the last decade.


Legal logging, however, has also cleared large areas.


Ten countries account for 80 percent of the world's primary
forests, of which Indonesia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Brazil
saw the highest losses in the five years from 2000 to 2005, the
UN Food and Agriculture Organisation has said.

