

Iran's Qods Force funded, armed and trained a network of secret
Iraqi cells that kidnapped and killed five US soldiers in January
in Karbala, the top US commander in Iraq said Thursday.


General David Petraeus, however, said there was no concrete
evidence that the Iranians were directly involved in the January
20 raid on a security compound by men dressed in US-style
military uniforms.


"There is no question that the Al-Qazhali network was connected
to the Iranian Qods Force -- received money, training, arms,
ammunition, and at some points in time even advice and
assistance," Petraeus said.


Petraeus said the evidence of Qods Force involvement emerged in
interrogations of the network's captured leader and other cell
members rolled up in subsequent raids over the past month.


"We discovered a 22 page memorandum on a computer that detailed
the planning, preparation, approval process and conduct of the
operation that resulted in five of our soldiers being killed in
Karbala," he said.


"There are numerous documents which detail a number of different
attacks on coalition forces, and our sense is that these records
were kept so that they could be handed in to whoever was
financing them," he said.


"No question, again, that financing is taking place through the
Qods Force of the Iranian Republican Guard Corps," he said.


The January 20 was a strikingly bold operation in which gunmen
dressed like American troops riding in SUVs penetrated Iraqi
security at a provincial coordination center in Karbala.


They killed a US soldier in the initial assault, and abducted
four others who were later found shot to death execution-style.


The sophistication of the operation immediately aroused US
suspicions of Iranian involvement.


But Petraeus said, "We do not have a direct link of Iranian
involvement in that particular operation."


He charged that the Qods Force was training members of Iraqi
extremist cells on Iranian territory, and providing them with
small arms and technology to make explosively-shaped charges that
can penetrate armor.


Seven Qods Force members have been detained in Iraq, he said.


He said the chain of official Iranian involvement could be traced
only as far as the commander of the Qods Force, who reports to
the top Iranian leadership.


Petraeus's charges were the latest in a series by senior US
officials pointing to Iranian efforts to destabilize Iraq.


He said there was no evidence at this point of Iranian
involvement in the spectacular car bombings and suicide attacks
that have rocked Baghdad despite a surge in US forces there.

