

Swiss pharmaceutical group Roche said Thursday it would trim
production of the frontline bird flu drug Tamiflu unless demand
picked up, but warned that the world was still not ready for a
pandemic.


Manufacturing capacity for the antiviral treatment has reached
400 million treatment courses a year and is outstripping demand,
William Burns, the chief executive of the group's pharmaceuticals
division told journalists.


Roche has received orders for 215 million treatments from
governments and private companies, and just 40 million still have
to be fulfilled, he added.


"Today we can satisfy significant additional orders from
governments and corporations, and unless the demand picks up
Roche will be tailoring its production schedule accordingly,"
Burns said.


"The question is how much do we need to activate," he added.


The drug is now the pharmaceutical giant's fourth best seller.


Roche faced pressure just over a year ago to rack up and spread
out its output of the drug, amid fears that it would be in short
supply in an emergency, especially during a threatened flu
pandemic.


Production grew from 55 million treatments in 2004 to 190 million
last year, according to the company. The Swiss group has licensed
production by Chinese, Indian and South African companies.


The production network includes eight Roche sites and 19 external
manufacturing partners in nine countries.


However, the group delivered less Tamiflu during the first
quarter of 2007, a sign that demand was tailing off, according to
Eugene Tierney, head of Roche's virology department.


Burns said: "We've acted responsibly but we do need a partner in
government with demand."


"Capacity constraint is no longer the issue. The issue is demand
and how prepared governments want to be. We can't just keep
building the inventory with nobody as a partner," he added.


The group says it could halt production now and still satisfy
current demand.


It will maintain a buffer stock at all times and remain in close
contact with manufacturing partners "to respond speedily to a
surge in demand," Burns added.


It would take four months to bring production back up to full
capacity, he added.


Tamiflu, or the basic ingredient oseltamivir, has been used
extensively to treat human cases of the most virulent H5N1 strain
of bird flu.


Governments and the World Health Organisation have also been
building up stockpiles of the drug to guard against a threatened
global flu pandemic.


"The pandemic risk is still around, it's still imminent and the
preparations should not ease," Burns cautioned.


"I realise that for many in the media the story seems to have
become somewhat cold but certainly if you talk to any of the
world experts, one clear message is 'we have to still get
ready'." he added.


Orders for Roche's drug so far have come from 80 countries.


It faces competition from the drug Relenza (zanamivir) by the
British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline. Both are used for
flu prevention and treatment purposes.


Oseltamivir has been favoured by the WHO in pandemic preparations
for technical reasons. Some scientific studies have shown cases
of resistance to the drug.


Roch estimated that only 35 countries in the world are planning
to supply more than five percent of their population with its
anti-flu treatment in an emergency.


Coverage rates would range from five percent in Greece, Brazil or
Italy up to 40 percent in Switzerland, Kuwait, and Australia,
even 50 percent in France, according to the company.


Apart from Taiwan and Japan, Roche's list did not include another
Asian country.

