

Taiwan on Thursday said the Beijing Olympic torch relay to Taipei
was unacceptable, saying the route arrangement was aimed at
belittling the island.


"The Beijing authorities attempt to turn the relay into a
domestic route and therefore dwarf our status. This is absolutely
unacceptable," Tsai Chen-wei, chairman of Taiwan's Olympic
Committee, said in a statement.


"Every responsibility should be shouldered by Beijing."


Taiwanese authorities had demanded that the island be included on
the international route rather than as part of China's domestic
relay which they feel would imply the island was part of China,
as Beijing insists.


Announcing the torch route earlier in Beijing, Olympic organisers
said the flame would visit Taipei after sweeping through the
cities of Pyongyang and Ho Chi Minh, and before moving on to Hong
Kong and Macau.


Taiwan has good reason to believe that if it accepted the
announced route, "China may accordingly declare the torch would
relay from 'China Taipei' to 'China Hong Kong,' and 'China Macau'
to the rest of the Chinese cities," Tsai said.


Taiwanese authorities have demanded that the torch relay for the
Beijing 2008 Games must arrive and depart the island via a third
country, a decision aimed to highlight Taiwan's sovereignty
independent of China.


However, Taipei Mayor Hau Lung-bin welcomed the opportunity to
raise Taiwan's profile in the international community.


"We hope in the first day of its arrival, the torch would be
carried to Taipei 101," the world's tallest skyscraper, said Hau,
from the leading opposition Kuomintang which favours improved
ties with Beijing.


Taipei last hosted a leg of the torch relay in the 1964 Tokyo
Olympic Games.


Hau urged independence activists and politicians to soften their
hardline stance on the sensitive issue.


Earlier in the week, Wang Wei, the vice president of the Beijing
Games organising committee, said Taiwan had agreed to host a leg
of the relay.


But his remarks were denied by Liu Teh-hsun, deputy chairman of
Taiwan's China policy decision-making body, the Mainland Affairs
Council.


China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since they split in
1949 at the end of a civil war but Beijing maintains the island
is a part of its territory awaiting reunification.

