

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz has accused the development
lender's board of treating him "shabbily and unfairly" as he
battles to retain his job, according to a report Thursday.


The New York Times divulged a letter sent by the embattled
Wolfowitz to the head of a World Bank probe Wednesday in which
the former Pentagon number two appealed for more time to fend off
charges of favoritism and cronyism.


Wolfowitz asked to appear before the board next week in the
interest of "fairness to me" and "good governance," according to
the Times, which relayed a description of the letter from people
who had seen it.


It said many of the bank's 24 directors had been "taken aback by
the tough tone of the letter," the contents of which could not be
immediately confirmed by AFP.


Wolfowitz, one of the architects of the US-led invasion of Iraq,
is fighting for his job following revelations that he ordered a
hefty pay package for his girlfriend when she was reassigned from
the World Bank to a US government job.


A board committee is also investigating his hiring of former
White House aides, also on generous pay deals, to work in his
inner circle after he took over the World Bank in June 2005.


World Bank sources told AFP that Wolfowitz would appear before
the board next week with Robert Bennett, a prominent Washington
lawyer who helped former president Bill Clinton defend himself in
a sexual harassment case in 1998.


The New York Times said the board had been "puzzled and put off"
by Wolfowitz's decision to retain a private lawyer, which has
raised the stakes in the divisive row over whether he should
resign as bank chief.


At a White House meeting Wednesday about efforts to combat
malaria, Wolfowitz won fresh support from US President George W.
Bush.


"I appreciate very much the fact that the World Bank is taking
the lead in eradicating poverty in places like Africa, and Paul
Wolfowitz, thank you for your leadership of the World Bank," Bush
said to his former colleague.


But European nations continue to pressure Wolfowitz. Members of
the European Union's parliament on Wednesday urged the bloc's
leaders to seek the resignation of Wolfowitz at an EU-US summit
in Washington Monday.


In a resolution, the lawmakers urged the EU's German presidency
to make Wolfowitz understand that "his resignation would be an
appropriate measure" given the bank's importance to fighting
corruption.


The Wolfowitz affair could feature in Monday's summit talks,
which are due to be led by Bush and German Chancellor Angela
Merkel.


German officials have been among the most outspoken in casting
doubt on Wolfowitz's credibility, following the revelation that
he directed a pay package worth nearly 200,000 dollars for his
Libyan-born companion, Shaha Riza.

