

The US military charged a top commander on Thursday with aiding
the enemy and fraternizing with the daughter of an inmate in a
US-run prison he headed in the latest scandal to hit the military
in Iraq.


As the controversy swirled, violence raged across Iraq killing at
least 29 people, including nine Iraqi soldiers.


The US military accused Lieutenant Colonel William Steele, who
before his arrest was in charge of Camp Cropper, a detention
centre on the outskirts of Baghdad, of aiding the "enemy by
providing an unmonitored cellular phone to detainees", the
military said.


He is also accused of having unauthorised possession of
classified information, maintaining an improper relationship with
an Iraqi interpreter, failing to obey an order and possessing
pornographic videos.


The charge sheet also accuses him of "wilfully failing to fulfil
obligations as an approving authority" in the expenditure of
funds.


The charges against Steele cover a period of almost 17 months
between October 1, 2005 and February 22, 2007.


He has been detained in Kuwait and will face a hearing before a
panel of officers to decide whether he should face charges,
military spokeswoman Lieutenant Colonel Josslyn Aberle told AFP
in Baghdad.


"He has been detained and is now in Kuwait. His current status is
that he is in confinement and waiting for his Article 32
hearing," she said.


The military statement stressed the "charges are merely an
accusation of wrongdoing. Lt. Col. Steele is presumed innocent
unless and until he is proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of
any alleged offence."


Camp Cropper has some "high-value" detainees and, before his
execution for crimes against humanity on December 30, ousted
dictator Saddam Hussein received medical treatment there.


Steele's arrest is the latest in a string of scandals to hit the
military since the 2003 invasion.


In 2004, pictures of the abuse of detainees by low-ranking
soldiers at the notorious Abu Ghraib prison west of the capital
shocked the world.


The images, which included photographs of bloodied and naked
prisoners smeared with excrement or being forced to perform
sexual acts, stoked anti-American sentiment.


Bloodshed, meanwhile, continued across Iraq, leaving at least 29
people dead.


The confessionally divided province of Diyala, northeast of
Baghdad, was again battered when a suicide bomber blew up a
vehicle against a joint Iraqi army and police checkpoint, killing
nine soldiers.


Another 15 people were wounded in the bombing in the town of
Khalis, 10 of them soldiers, a security official said.


Diyala has emerged as one of the fiercest battlegrounds in Iraq,
the new focus of Sunni Al-Qaeda fighters who have been pushed out
of western Iraq and Baghdad by a more than two-month-old US and
Iraqi security operation.


On Monday, nine US soldiers were killed and 20 wounded when two
suicide truck bombers exploded their vehicles against their
patrol base in Diyala, in the deadliest attack on US ground
troops in 16 months.


Despite the crackdown, the capital was again hit by fresh
attacks.


A car bomb in the southern Jadiriyah district killed six people
and wounded 18, a defence ministry official said.


Another five people were killed in other attacks in Baghdad.


In Saddam's hometown of Tikrit, gunmen shot dead the wife and
daughter of Hashim Hassan al-Majid, brother of Ali Hassan al-
Majid, better known as Chemical Ali, police said.


Ali, a cousin of the executed former president who served as his
defence minister, is currently facing charges of genocide for
killing tens of thousands of Kurds during the 1988 military
campaign in northern Kurdistan.


In northern Iraq, three Kurdish militiamen were killed and 13
wounded in a coordinated car bomb and suicide attack in the town
of Zammar, northwest of the main city of Mosul.


The early morning assault struck close to the offices of the
Kurdistan Democratic Party of regional president Massud Barzani,
a party spokesman told AFP.


On Monday, 10 people were killed and 20 wounded in a similar
attack on the party's offices in the town of Tal Isquf.


The US military also reported that two women and two children
were "unfortunately killed" in an air strike near Taji, north of
Baghdad, during an operation against an Al-Qaeda hideout.


Four militants were slaughtered in the raid.

