

Ignoring President George W. Bush's veto threat, the US Congress
passed a bill setting a timeline to withdraw US troops from Iraq,
with the top Democrat saying it sets "a new course, away from a
civil war with no end in sight."


With the fourth anniversary of Bush's May 1, 2003 Iraq "Mission
Accomplished" speech looming, the Senate voted 51-46 in favor of
the 124-billion-dollar bill passed one day earlier by the House
of Representatives.


The bill provides more cash than Bush sought to bankroll
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, but says US troops are to
start withdrawing from Iraq in October, with a non-binding target
of completing the pullout by March 31, 2008.


"It sets us on a new course, away from a civil war with no end in
sight toward a responsible phased redeployment that holds Iraqis
accountable. This is a responsible plan for redeployment, not a
precipitous withdrawal," said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
before the vote.


"If the president refuses to change direction, America risks
being bogged down in Iraq for years, not months," Reid said.


"For a President that took the country to war under false
pretenses, he now needs the courage to admit his policies have
failed and work with us to bring the war to a responsible end.
This bill gives him a path forward."


Ahead of the vote the White House reiterated Bush's promise to
veto the bill, with Republicans defending the deeply unpopular
conflict and charging that any withdrawal timetable was a recipe
for disaster.


"The president has said that we need to get the process over
with, in terms of them sending him a bill and him vetoing it so
that we can take the next step," said Bush spokeswoman Dana
Perino.


The bill could reach Bush on May 1, the fourth anniversary of his
2003 speech on the deck of the US aircraft carrier USS Abraham
Lincoln, in which he declared "victory" in Iraq under a giant
"Mission Accomplished" banner.


Perino suggested that the president's Democratic critics had
dragged out the legislative process in order to tie it to the
speech, calling that a "ridiculous PR (public relations) stunt"
and "the height of cynicism."


The "Mission Accomplished" speech, in which he declared "major
combat" over, has dogged Bush as the symbol of what critics
charge is his excessive optimism about the conflict.


The Senate vote was mostly along party lines, as was the narrow
218-208 vote in the House of Representatives on Wednesday.


Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi cited the more than 3,200
US soldiers dead, the "scores of thousands" of Iraqi lives lost,
and warned that the war would cost more than a trillion dollars
even if it ended today.


"The sacrifices borne by our troops and their families demand
more than the blank checks the president is asking for, for a war
without end," Pelosi said.

