

The Commonwealth insisted Thursday that its November summit would
take place as planned in the Ugandan capital Kampala despite
reports suggesting it may have to be moved due to security fears.


Amid unrest in Uganda, concerns for the safety of Queen Elizabeth
II and the 53 Commonwealth heads of government due to attend have
left the November 23-25 meeting in doubt, The Times and The
Guardian newspapers reported.


Commonwealth leaders meet every two years to discuss common
political and economic matters.


A spokesman from the Commonwealth Secretariat's London
headquarters said reports suggesting that the summit would be
moved were "incorrect."


All 53 governments had accepted Ugandan President Yoweri
Museveni's invitation to attend, he said.


"A memorandum confirming administrative and logistical
arrangements was issued to all Commonwealth governments
yesterday," he added.


Citing an unidentified source, The Times said that some officials
in Britain's Foreign Office doubted whether the summit could go
ahead.


"I am beginning to think it may not happen," the source told the
daily.


"You can't have the queen visiting if people are shooting each
other in the streets ... There will be a Plan B."


However, Buckingham Palace has apparently said the queen's state
visit to Uganda should proceed.


By convention, Queen Elizabeth, the head of the Commonwealth,
makes a state visit to the host country before each summit.


Uganda has been plagued by a two-decade war between government
forces and the rebel Lord's Resistance Army, though the two
parties have agreed to reopen peace talks.


The United Nations has called out Uganda for "indiscriminate"
violence and killings carried out by the Ugandan army in the
remote northeastern Karamoja region, and political unrest has
seen police fire live rounds and tear gas to disperse thousands
of protestors this month.


Ugandan lawyers and judges also went on strike last month,
protesting state interference in their work.


Queen Elizabeth is set to travel to Kampala with her husband
Prince Philip, as well as her oldest son and heir Prince Charles
and his wife Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall.

