

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres
called on Thursday for a political solution to the civil war
wracking Sudan's western Darfur region.


"Without a solid peace agreement, it will be very difficult to
solve the problem in all its dimensions," the former Portuguese
prime minister told reporters in Khartoum during his second visit
to Sudan.


Guterres, who also visited eastern Sudan where there are 136,000
refugees from Ethiopia and Eritrea, described the crisis in
Darfur as complex.


Explaining that the situation has political, tribal and ethnic
dimensions, he said "the equilibrium in Darfur between the
different groups that existed for centuries must be restored."


Guterres praised Sudan's recent agreement to a second phase of a
UN plan to increase support for the beleaguered 7,000-man African
Union force that has failed to stop the violence in the region.


"Obviously, it's a major step forward and I hope these
negotiations will be followed by another success," he said,
alluding to the third phase of the plan which envisions a hybrid
UN-AU force of 20,000.


"I think it's a very important element for the security of the
region, but not the only element," he added. "I think as
important is the need for a comprehensive and effective peace
agreement with all parties involved."


According to the United Nations, some 200,000 people have been
killed and two million displaced in the four-year conflict in
Darfur that began as a rebellion and turned into a savage
conflict involving government forces, tribes and villagers.


The conflict threatens to spill over into neighbouring countries
to which tens of thousands of refugees have already fled.


In the course of his visit, during which he met local and
international official, Guterres announced UNHCR's plans to
increase its role in Sudan, in Darfur, as well as the south and
east.


He recognised the lack of international assistance to refugees
who have been in this part of Sudan over the past 40 years and
thanked the authorities for their generosity towards them.

