

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz has accused the development
lender's board of treating him "shabbily and unfairly" as he
battles to retain his job, the New York Times reported Thursday.


The newspaper divulged a letter sent by the embattled Wolfowitz
to the head of a World Bank probe Wednesday in which the former
Pentagon number two appealed for more time to fend off charges of
favoritism and cronyism.


Wolfowitz asked to appear before the board next week in the
interests of "fairness to me" and "good governance," according to
the Times, which relayed a description of the letter from people
who had seen it.


It said many of the bank's 24 directors had been "taken aback by
the tough tone of the letter," which could not be immediately
confirmed by AFP.


Wolfowitz, one of the architects of the US-led invasion of Iraq,
is fighting for his job following revelations that he ordered a
hefty pay package for his girlfriend, an employee at the bank.


A board committee is also investigating his hiring of former
White House aides, also on generous pay deals, to work in his
inner circle after he took over the World Bank in June 2005.


The Times said Wolfowitz wanted to appear before the board with
his newly hired lawyer, Robert Bennett, a prominent Washington
figure who helped former president Bill Clinton settle a sexual
misconduct case in 1998.


The newspaper said the board had been "puzzled and put off" by
Wolfowitz's decision to retain Bennett, which has raised the
stakes in the divisive row over whether he should resign as bank
chief.


At a White House meeting Wednesday about efforts to combat
malaria, Wolfowitz won fresh support from US President George W.
Bush.


"I appreciate very much the fact that the World Bank is taking
the lead in eradicating poverty in places like Africa, and Paul
Wolfowitz, thank you for your leadership of the World Bank," Bush
said to his former colleague.


But European nations continue to heap pressure on Wolfowitz.
Members of the European Union's parliament on Wednesday urged the
bloc's leaders to seek the resignation of Wolfowitz at an EU-US
summit in Washington Monday.


In a resolution, the lawmakers urged the EU's German presidency
to make Wolfowitz understand that "his resignation would be an
appropriate measure" given the bank's importance to fighting
corruption.

