

Moscow should honour its long-standing treaty obligations, the
United States said Thursday, after Russian President Vladimir
Putin threatened to withdraw from a landmark international arms
control accord.


"These are treaty obligations and everyone is expected to live up
to treaty obligations," US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
told reporters in Oslo, after informal talks between NATO foreign
ministers.


Putin, in a state of the nation speech Thursday, said Russia
could pull out of the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE)
treaty until all of NATO's current members ratified it.


"It would be appropriate to announce a moratorium on Russian
adherence to this treaty until it has been ratified by all NATO
countries without exception," he said.


Rice who, along with her NATO colleagues, was set to meet Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, added: "I'm certain we will hear
from minister Lavrov what President Putin had in mind."


In Washington, State Department Deputy Spokesman Tom Casey said:
"Everybody understands that there are important treaty
commitments that are out there. Certainly we expect everyone to
continue to honor them."


"These are agreements that have been reached broadly
internationally. The treaty I think is something beneficial for
all parties involved and certainly we want to see everyone
continue to honor their obligations under it," he said.


Putin's remarks reflect Moscow's mounting unease over NATO's
enlargement into territory once part of the former Soviet Union
and Washington's championing of countries such as ex-Soviet
Georgia.


Russia also has portrayed Washington's plans to develop a missile
defense shield as a dangerous encroachment that could fuel a new
Cold War.


Washington says the missile shield is meant to protect against
"rogue states" such as Iran and North Korea.


The CFE treaty was signed in 1990 in Paris by the countries of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the former
Warsaw Pact to limit military hardware in the region.


It was adapted in Istanbul in 1999 following the collapse of the
Warsaw Pact, in order to limit deployments on a country-by-
country basis.


NATO states have refused to ratify the new pact on the grounds
that Moscow has failed to honor commitments made in Istanbul to
withdraw Russian forces from the ex-Soviet republics of Georgia
and Moldova.


Putin's insistence that all countries ratify the CFE appeared
particularly aimed at the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania, which were once part of the Soviet Union and are not
part of the treaty.


The three are all now members of NATO.

