

South Korea said Wednesday it could resolve its disputes over
farm goods in free trade talks with the United States, raising
hopes of a deal as the weekend deadline approached.


"I think both sides can narrow differences and find common ground
until the last minute," Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-
Seok told reporters as the third day of tough talks ended.


"With a deadline just two days away, both sides clearly share a
view that a deal should be reached in time," Min was quoted by
Yonhap news agency as saying.


Rice had still not been discussed, he added.


Rice and beef are among the most contentious issues in this
week's talks, the final round in a process which began 10 months
ago.


Seoul insists on excluding rice from any free trade agreement
(FTA) and warns that if Washington persists in raising it, the
talks will collapse.


The US side also said earlier a deal was possible before the
weekend deadline. But, among other matters, it demands an end to
what it sees as unreasonable restrictions on its beef exports.


South Korea last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over fears
of mad cow disease and agreed to accept US boneless beef. But it
then rejected three shipments after discovering tiny bone
fragments in what the US called a pretext to protect Korean
farmers.


Both sides have said the talks could go up to the deadline at
7:00 am Saturday Korean time, the last working day of the week in
Washington.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday for a 90-day
review if it is to be passed while US President George W. Bush
still has authority to "fast- track" trade legislation.


"We are ready to stay overnight Friday. It is possible for both
sides to talk until the last moment," a Korean trade official
told AFP on condition of anonymity.


Unresolved issues also include cars, textiles, anti-dumping
remedies and pharmaceuticals.


Some analysts, however, believe a deal is certain and say South
Korea is already charting programmes to win public and
legislative support. The Korea Times quoted a government source
as saying an agreement is a foregone conclusion.


If the talks remain deadlocked, the Chosun Ilbo newspaper said
President Roh Moo-Hyun, who returns Friday morning from a Middle
East trip, is expected to strike a package deal with Bush in a
phone call.


Total two-way trade was worth 74 billion dollars last year and an
agreement could boost this figure by about 20 percent, according
to some studies.


South Korea, facing a growing export challenge from China, is
pushing for a pact to make its economy more competitive.


For the United States, a deal would be its biggest since the 1993
North American Free Trade Agreement.


But Korean farmers, other workers and activists say an agreement
opening the way for cheaper imports would threaten their jobs and
depress wages.


Four lawmakers are on hunger strike against any deal, even though
government officials believe a majority of legislators support
one.


Protesters from a coalition of farmers and anti-globalisation
activists said they would stage a candle-lit rally Wednesday
evening and street protests on Friday.


Agriculture accounts for only three percent of South Korea's
gross domestic product but rice has strong cultural significance.
Farmers have a long tradition of militancy in trying to keep
foreign imports out.

