

Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica on Wednesday launched a
bitter attack on the West's support for a plan to grant
independence to his country's disputed province of Kosovo.


"We know that America, the EU and NATO support (UN envoy Martti)
Ahtisaari's proposal to seize 15 percent of Serbia's territory,"
Kostunica said in a statement carried by state-run RTS
television.


Kostunica, a moderate nationalist who heads Serbia's caretaker
government following January elections, criticised the West's
stance of reaching out to Belgrade while going against its will
over Kosovo.


On one hand, NATO had labelled itself "Merciful Angel" during the
1999 bombing campaign to drive Serb forces out of Kosovo, he said
in reference to the alliance's codename for the 78-day air war,
said Kostunica.


On the other, however, it was now calling itself a "friend" of
the country it had targetted in order to "seize a significant
part of our territory," he added.


Kosovo, whose ethnic Albanians comprise about 90 percent of its
two million population, has been in political and economic limbo
since the end of the NATO bombing campaign.


On Monday, Ahtisaari forwarded to the UN Security Council his
plan to redefine Kosovo's future status, offering to grant the
province supervised independence from Serbia.


Along with the leaders of Kosovo's 90-percent independence-
seeking ethnic Albanian population, it was strongly backed by the
United States, NATO and the European Union, which Serbia has
hopes of eventually joining.


Kostunica said, however, that Belgrade's "first state and
national interest of Serbia was to ensure Ahstisaari's plan to
carve up Serbia failed."


Serbia's response to calls from the West for it to accept the
plan was to say "more strongly and more decisively ... that
Kosovo is an integral and inalienable part of Serbia," said
Kostunica.


"Even with the loud support, Ahtisaari's proposal will fail, and
that will open the door to real negotiations on the future status
of the province."


Ahtisaari presented his proposals for the status of Kosovo after
the failure earlier this year of 13 months of talks that he had
led between Serbian and ethnic Albanian negotiators.


Serbia hopes that its sometime ally Russia will use its veto in
order to block any UN Security Council resolution proposing
Kosovo's independence.


Russia this week called for more efforts to reach a compromise
between the two sides.

