

The daughter of France's late Socialist president Francois
Mitterrand describes presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy as
a "mad dog" who is drawn by extremism, in an interview published
Wednesday.


"His lack of self-control, his mad dog side and the fact that he
is tempted by extremism worry me," Mazarine Pingeot told the
popular newspaper Parisien.


Pingeot, a 33-year-old writer whose relationship to her father
was kept secret until she was in her late teens, said she planned
to vote for Socialist candidate Segolene Royal.


"She was the obvious choice because she is the candidate of my
party. But I also chose her for her independent spirit, the
strength of her character, her perseverance and her balanced
mood, her indifference to the rumour mill, to attacks and
finally, her courage," said Pingeot.


Pingeot, whose father was in office from 1981 to 1995 has kept a
low-profile in the campaign for the election, taking place on
April 22 and May 6. Mitterrand died in 1996.


Le Parisien said she had joined the Socialist Party only a few
months ago.


Pingeot, whose mother Anne was Mitterrand's mistress, said
recurrent questions about whether Royal is competent to hold the
republic's top post reflected "a macho undercurrent" in France.


"There is a suggestion that a woman must prove that she is able
to lead.  For a man, it is a given that he will be called upon to
exercise power, or that power comes naturally to him."


Pingeot described Sarkozy's proposal to create a ministry of
immigration and national identity as "shameful and shocking".


Sarkozy has been harshly criticised by leftist politicians who
accuse the candidate of the governing rightwing party of
suggesting that immigrants should be indoctrinated on how to be
French.


Pingeot also said it would be "absurd" for voters sympathetic to
the left to cast their ballots for centrist Francois Bayrou,
whose popularity rating seems to have stalled in the polls in the
number three spot.


She raised the possibility of a repeat of the 2002 election, when
far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen won more votes than Socialist
Lionel Jospin in the first round of voting and went on to
challenge Jacques Chirac in the runoff.


Socialist leaders have urged left-wing voters to cast their
ballot for Royal in the first round to avoid a split in the vote
that would allow a candidate from the right to slip through.

