

Some 4,000 people demonstrated in the Polish capital Wednesday in
support of efforts by a far-right governing party to get the
country's tough anti-abortion law anchored in the constitution.


Answering the call of the ultra-Catholic station Radio Maryja,
the demonstrators ringed Saint Alexander's church in the heart of
Warsaw and prepared to march on parliament after attending mass.


Anti-abortion activists are piling up the pressure on lawmakers
as Poland's parliament ponders a draft bill by the League of
Polish Families (LPR).


The LPR wants to have a "right to life from the moment of
conception" written into the constitution, effectively blocking
any future liberalisation of the abortion law and potentially
opening the way for a total ban.


An AFP reporter at the scene saw demonstrators brandishing
photographs of aborted foetuses, and banners with a quote from
the late, Polish-born pope John Paul II: "A nation that kills its
own children has no future".


Poland, where more than 90 percent of the 38.2-million-strong
population are professed Roman Catholics, already has among the
toughest abortion rules in Europe.


Liberal abortion laws were widespread in the communist bloc, but
Poland introduced tough new rules in 1993, four years after the
collapse of the former regime.


Abortion is currently only permitted in cases of rape, incest,
danger to the mother's life or irreversible malformation of the
foetus.


Doctors who break the law face a two-year jail term, although
women who have a termination do not face sanctions.


Four weeks ago, the LPR proposal won the backing of a
parliamentary commission.


The powerful Polish Bishops' Conference, which is the Church's
ruling body in Poland, has also come out in favour.


Opponents, including feminist groups, say the bill could lead to
an outright ban and simply strengthen the already flourishing
back street abortion industry.


The draft law, which may be up for a vote next month, would need
support from two-thirds of the 460 members of parliament to pass.


The ultra-Catholic, nationalist LPR is a junior member of the
coalition government led by the conservative Law and Justice
party of Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski.


The premier and his identical twin, President Lech Kaczynski, who
are both professed Catholics, have spoken against the LPR draft.

