

Genting International will pay 255 million Singapore dollars (168
million US) to acquire Star Cruises' 25 percent stake in a multi-
billion-dollar gaming project in Singapore, Star Cruises said
Wednesday.


The acquisition, which will give Genting full ownership of the
Resorts World at Sentosa (RWS) integrated resort (IR), was
announced on March 4 but the value of the deal had not been
worked out at that time.


Both parties, part of Malaysian conglomerate Genting Berhad, said
the move by Star Cruises to withdraw as a partner from the IR
project was to meet Singapore requirements in applying for a
gaming licence.


Singapore had sought clarification from Genting and Star Cruises
since a tie-up announced in January with Macau casino tycoon
Stanley Ho.


The tie-up with Ho would have given him and a group of investors
a 6.99 percent stake in Star Cruises. In return, Star and Genting
International were to get stakes in a new boutique hotel and
casino to be operated by Ho's Sociedad de Jogos de Macau.


The Ministry of Home Affairs had told Genting and Star Cruises it
would conduct checks "to ensure that the consortium meets the
suitability requirements" before a licence were issued.


"It is essential for RWS to be in a position to meet the
suitability requirements necessary for the application of a
casino licence at the appropriate time in the future," Star
Cruises said in a statement filed with the Singapore Exchange.


On completion of the deal, Star Cruises "will cease to have any
interest in RWS and the Sentosa Integrated Resort," it said.


Genting International said in a separate statement late Tuesday
that the move will allow the firm "full control over the IR
project and this will expedite decision making and increase the
flexibility" in running the project.


The Casino Regulation Division of Singapore's Ministry of Home
Affairs had said in late February that the Genting-Star Cruises
alliance were not guaranteed a casino licence even if they signed
a development agreement.


Genting and Star Cruises won the bidding last year to build
Singapore's second integrated casino resort complex on Sentosa
island. They have committed to invest 5.2 billion Singapore
dollars in the project, which is to include a Universal Studios
theme park and the world's largest oceanarium, as well as gaming
facilities.


Star Cruises and Genting International shares both traded lower
Wednesday. Genting International closed down 0.005 at 0.820. Star
Cruises was down 0.025 US dollars at 0.290.

