

More than 70 people were burned to death in northern Nigeria when
a tanker lorry caught fire as they were scooping fuel from it,
police said Wednesday.


The accident happened in Kaduna State on Monday evening, the
police spokesman for Kaduna, Saad Yahaya, said.


"More than 70 people have been confirmed dead. There are some
survivors but we don't know exactly how many," the spokesman
said.


"The tanker turned over, the villagers came to scoop fuel and
then the tanker caught fire", he explained.


Yahaya said the tanker overturned while trying to park in the
village of Katugal, some 150 kilometres (90 miles) south of the
state capital Kaduna.


The federal road safety chief for Kaduna, Charles Okpabio,
confirmed that there were surviviors but declined to say how many
or where they are being treated.


It was not immediately clear if the impact of the accident caused
fuel to leak from the tanker or whether the vehicle was
vandalized.


Events perceived as giving a negative image of the country are
not reported on by state media in Nigeria. This explains why news
of the accident took so long to become public.


Road accidents with large casualty figures are common in Nigeria
where vehicles are often poorly maintained, overloaded and driven
in a reckless fashion.


In November of last year a driver lost control of his lorry
outside Kaduna during gubernatorial primaries and crashed into a
crowd, crushing scores of people to death.


Almost equally common are fires where people perish whilst
scooping fuel, be it from oil company installations or trucks.


Nigeria's tens of millions who live in poverty rarely pass up on
opportunities to gather free fuel, which can always be sold in
jerrycans to motorists who run out, from pipelines or vehicles
that have either been damaged or vandalized.


Vandalism of pipelines and related installations is extremely
common, with an official report published last July registering
2,258 such acts in the previous five years.


Last December a fire at a vandalised pipeline in Lagos killed
some 260 people who were scooping fuel from it in the hope of
making a few dollars.


The Nigerian authorities habitually show little sympathy for
those who die in such explosions, condemning them as greedy.


Nigeria is Africa's biggest crude oil producer but nevertheless
relies on imports for its refined product requirements as its own
refineries are not in working order.

