

Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen clocked the quickest overall lap
Wednesday on the second day of testing for the Formula One
Malaysia Grand Prix at Sepang.


The flying Finn, fresh from his season-opening win in Australia,
set his best time of one minute 35.258 seconds towards the end of
the cloudy afternoon session.


"I am happy with the two-day testing. There were no problems with
the car," he told reporters on the sidelines of the three-day
testing ahead of the April 8 race.


Raikkonen complained about the tropical heat but expressed
confidence that the weather would not stop him from securing a
second straight victory of the season.


"We were strong in the last race. We will fight for a win," he
said.


Raikkonen, who won in Malaysia in 2003 when he was racing for
McLaren, led from start to finish in Melbourne, putting to rest
doubts about his ability to fill the shoes of seven-times world
champion Michael Schumacher at Ferrari.


But the resurgent McLaren team took an early edge in the
constructors' title with 14 points to Ferrari's 13 in Melbourne
after the second Ferrari driver, Felipe Massa, fought his way
from the eighth row on the grid to finish sixth.


Rookie McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton, impressive in his debut
Formula One drive with a podium finish behind reigning world
champion Fernando Alonso, struggled with his testing on the
Sepang Circuit here.


Hamilton came out sixth fastest with a time of one minute 36.115
seconds in a pack of 10 drivers. He completed 69 laps.


Alexander Wurz of Williams was second fastest while David
Coulthard with the Red Bull team was third. BMW Sauber's Robert
Kubica, who dominated testing Tuesday, was fifth fastest.


The hot morning session also saw more action as the teams and
drivers made full use of their time to test tyres and set up
their cars.


Raikkonen was also the fastest in the early session with a time
of one minute 35.397 seconds.


"We tested the car for the right set-up and monitored how the
tyres performed. We had no problems with the gear-box," he said.


Raikkonen said that towards the end of the Australian Grand Prix
he had to slow down because there was a "small water leak" and
the engine was getting a bit hot.


"So we slowed down in the last few laps," he said.


Testing at Sepang continues for a final day Thursday. Sole
supplier Bridgestone is providing tyres for the testing session.


Bahrain is this season's third race on April 15.

