

Malaysia Wednesday said it had settled on positions to continue
free trade talks with the US as the countries missed a March 31
deadline to fast-track the deal, but still flagged no-go areas.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said a next round of talks with
the United States "will be held fairly soon" and that the
government had made decisions on negotiating positions.


"We discussed the FTA today and we've made some decisions
relating to the FTA. It is now up to the respective ministries to
take up our position with the Americans," Najib told reporters.


"The talks continue. We are not bound by any deadline, nor will
we give up some of the fundamental positions that we consider
very important to Malaysia," he said on the sidelines of an
Islamic finance forum here.


The United States government last week ruled out securing a free-
trade agreement with Malaysia before President George W. Bush
loses his "fast-track" trade promotion authority on July 1.


The expiry date gave US negotiators up to March 31 to present a
deal for a mandatory 90-day review by the US Congress, which
Washington had been racing to meet.


Any agreement secured after the March 31 deadline will make
congressional approval a complex exercise.


The two nations last held a round of FTA talks in February, but
failed to set a date for further talks after negotiations bogged
down.


After the round, the countries' fifth, Malaysian officials
informed Washington that they needed time to seek a political
consensus within their cabinet on how to proceed on issues such
as their affirmative action regime.


Malaysia maintains positive discrimination policies that provide
special privileges to indigenous and ethnic Malay-owned firms, a
sore point for US negotiators.


A spokesman for the US Trade Representative last week said
despite the failure to meet the March 31 deadline, the US and its
10th largest trading partner had agreed to forge ahead with
talks.


A Malaysian team is scheduled to come to the United States in
mid-April for consultations, he said.

