

Orders for manufactured US durable goods rebounded 2.5 percent in
February, primarily as demand for new civilian and military
aircraft picked up, the Commerce Department said Wednesday.


The rebound in orders, however, was weaker than most Wall Street
economists had forecast amid a slowdown of the wider US economy,
and some analysts said it would likely add further pressure to
the Federal Reserve to prepare for interest rate cuts.


Most analysts had anticipated that orders for big-ticket
manufactured goods, including cars, aircraft and washing
machines, would increase 3.5 percent.


"Given how weak orders were in January, the February gain is
disappointing and may point to more generalized weakness in the
economy," said Joel Naroff, of Naroff Economic Advisors.


January's plunge in orders was revised deeper to a decline of 9.3
percent, compared with a prior estimate of an 8.7 percent drop,
marking the worst dropoff in demand in almost seven years.


Excluding the transport sector, orders fell 0.1 percent in
February following a decline of 4.0 percent in January.


Some economists fear the downturn in the US housing market has
forced consumers to tighten their belts in a move that could
hamper sales of consumer goods such as new televisions and
computers.


"This report indicates that the softness in the economy is on
beyond housing. Thus, the FOMC (Federal Open Market Committee)
may need to start signaling that an ease could be coming," Naroff
said.


Orders, excluding the defense sector, rose 2.5 percent after
falling 9.1 percent at the start of the year.


Strong demand for aircraft, which can be volatile from month-to-
month, helped boost orders last month.


Demand for civilian aircraft rose 88.4 percent after dropping
60.4 percent in January, while orders for military aircraft
surged 29.2 percent after falling 58.8 percent.


US aircraft giant Boeing won a major contract from delivery giant
UPS in early February, covering a multi-billion dollar order for
27 Boeing freighter jets.


Vehicle sales, which many Americans finance with loans, bounced
back in February, posting a 1.3 percent rise following a hefty
9.2 percent slump in the prior month.


Fresh orders for military equipment, as the US armed forces
continue to mount large overseas operations in Iraq and
Afghanistan, ticked up to 3.5 percent from 2.0 percent.

