

Retired Gurkha soldiers staged a mass protest in London on
Wednesday over Britain's refusal to give them full pensions and
other rights.


An estimated 2,500 veterans wearing war medals and brandishing
placards joined a rally on parliament following recent pension
reforms which were criticised by groups representing the Nepalese
fighters.


The defence ministry announced earlier this month that the
pensions of all Gurkhas who joined the army after July 1, 1997
would be brought into line with those of other soldiers.


But campaigners complain that Gurkhas who retired before then
will still struggle financially.


There are around 20,000 retired Gurkhas in Nepal -- where the
average annual income is around 100 pounds (147 euros, 196
dollars) -- and veterans' groups say the new pension agreement
will only affect 2,000 people.


"I cannot understand why in 2007 we have a situation where people
who are prepared to fight and possibly die for this country
suffer great injustice and are discriminated against so badly,"
march organiser Peter Carroll told the crowd.


As a result of the reforms, which come in on April 1, the pension
for a rifleman with 15 years' service will reportedly increase
more than fivefold, from 1,200 pounds (1,757 euros, 2,313
dollars) a year to 6,600 pounds.


But campaigners say that many troops who retired before the cut-
off date have to live on 240 pounds per year.


They also argue that, despite the reforms, there are still too
many barriers in the way of Gurkhas who want to become British
citizens.


"I am ashamed at the way that we treat our Gurkhas," Ann
Widdecombe, a former minister and lawmaker with the main
opposition Conservatives, told the crowd.


"The 1997 dividing line is not only illogical, worse than that it
is immoral.


"We're not asking for charity. We're asking for justice, plain
and simple justice."


A small delegation of Gurkhas will hand a personal letter to
Prime Minister Tony Blair at his Downing Street office later
Wednesday.


Others are set to meet Veterans' Minister Derek Twigg and Sir
Menzies Campbell, leader of Britain's second opposition party,
the Liberal Democrats.


Further reforms announced by the defence ministry earlier this
month include considering how women could be brought into the
Brigade of Gurkhas and allowing Gurkhas to transfer to other army
units.


The Gurkhas -- known for their fierce loyalty, bravery and razor-
sharp kukri fighting knives which they carry in battle -- first
served as part of the Indian army in British-run India in 1815.


Since Indian independence in 1947, their pensions have been
linked to the Indian army, not the British one.


There are currently about 3,500 Gurkhas serving in the British
military.

