

A new party created by the political wing of Basque separatist
group ETA will "scrupulously respect" Spanish law, a leader of
the movement said Wednesday.


But it remained unclear whether Spain's socialist government
would allow the party to take part in May local elections.


Batasuna, ETA's banned political wing, filed papers Tuesday to
register the party in a bid to take part in the May 27 elections
in the northern Basque and Navarre regions.


Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi told reporters that the new party
represents an "advance" in finding a democratic solution to the
Basque conflict. He called it a "constructive and positive" step.


Otegi, who faced charges of "glorifying terrorism" at the high
court, walked free last week after the prosecution dropped the
charges.


The new party's statutes call for resolution of the Basque issue
"through a process of dialogue and mutilateral negotiation, and
without any type of violence," according to extracts on the
website of Cadena Ser radio.


The party is to be named Abertzale Sozialisten Batasuna
(Socialist Patriotic Unity).


Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Tuesday
that the new party was likely to be banned from participating
because aspects of it appear illegal.


The government has said Batasuna cannot take part in the
elections unless it breaks definitively with ETA's armed
campaign.


Batasuna, while it has distanced itself from the armed struggle,
has yet to make the unequivocal statement the government is
seeking.


Zapatero broke off dialogue with ETA after last December's
bombing at Madrid's international airport in which two people
were killed.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region. Both the
EU and the US State Department consider Batasuna a terrorist
organisation along with ETA.


Spain's right-wing opposition Popular Party has heavily
criticised the government over its dealings with Basque
separatists.


Opposed to any dialogue with ETA and to lending any legitimacy to
Batasuna, the party has warned that Spanish unity is at risk.
Popular Party politicans expressed anger last week at Otegi's
release.


Batasuna has planned a meeting for Saturday to discuss its
electoral strategy with members.


Another strategy it may use would involve urging candidates to
run who are not officially affiliated with Batasuna, but who are
sympathetic to its cause, conservative daily ABC reported.

