

Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was back in custody
after a raid on his party's offices Wednesday as southern African
leaders gathered to debate the growing crisis on their doorstep.


A fortnight after he was arrested and then assaulted in an attack
that drew international outrage, the Movement for Democratic
Change said Tsvangirai had again been picked up by members of
President Robert Mugabe's security services.


"All party officials inside the building were arrested," the
party said in a statement.


"MDC president Morgan Tsvangirai, who was scheduled to give a
press conference on the escalating and systematic campaign of
violence and intimidation undertaken by the Mugabe government in
recent days, was among those taken away," it added.


The party's general secretary Tendai Biti told AFP at least 20
party workers were picked up with Tsvangirai in an operation at
Harvest House in downtown Harare which he characterised as "act
of fascism by a desperate regime".


While there was no official word on the arrests, a senior
security source confirmed the raid which he said was designed to
find petrol bombs.


Dozens of armed riot police sealed off the area around the 1st
Street shopping mall during the raid, according to an AFP
correspondent. The normally bustling streets were deserted apart
from the police with their sniffer dogs.


People who had wandered out of their offices to see what was
going on were promptly ordered out of the area while many shop
owners shut their stores when the security forces turned up in
force, apparently fearful of violence.


The latest arrests served to underline the animosity between the
government and opposition at a time when leaders of the 14-nation
Southern African Development Community (SADC) are expected to
urge both sides to reconcile.


The summit in the Tanzanian capital Dar es Salaam is being held
amid criticism that regional leaders have done little to reign in
Mugabe even if they have most to lose from the fallout in a
country where inflation now stands at 1,730 percent and food
shortages are widespread.


A Tanzanian foreign ministry official said Mugabe and his ZANU-PF
party would come under pressure to open talks with the MDC, even
if he sounded sceptical about the chances of a breakthrough.


"Nothing is impossible. I believe they (the SADC leaders) have
the power to convince," the official, speaking on condition of
anonymity, told AFP.


"Who knows? Mugabe may agree even if he is not necessarily the
one to hold talks."


Mugabe, who was himself expected in Dar es Salaam after attending
a meeting of his ruling party's politburo, is expected to portray
the MDC as the instigators of recent violence and puppets of his
critics.


After the arrests and subsequent beatings of Tsvangirai and
dozens of other MDC activists as they tried to attend an anti-
government rally on March 11, Mugabe has shrugged off criticism
over their treatment from the West.


Wednesday's detentions prompted a warning from Germany, which
holds the current EU presidency, that no harm should come to
Tsvangirai.


"It is with concern that we heard that Mr Tsvangirai has been
arrested again, not least because he was brutally mistreated last
time he was detained," Germany foreign ministry spokesman Jens
Ploetner said.


Despite his ordeal at the hands of the security services earlier
this month, which saw him treated in intensive care for head
injuries, Tsvangirai has defiantly continued to call for Mugabe's
ouster.


Talking to journalists after a memorial service on Tuesday for an
MDC activist who was shot dead on March 11, Tsvangirai said that
the assaults had served to unite the formerly fractious
opposition.


"There is no dictator in this world who has succeeded to oppress
the people forever ... We cannot dignify an old man who has lost
his mind," he said.


Mugabe has recently indicated his desire to stand for another
six-year term of office at elections due in 2008.

