

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday hailed a long-
awaited border agreement with Latvia, but stressed that other
issues remained to be resolved.


"I congratulate you on the border agreement," Putin told Latvia
Prime Minister Aigars Kalvitis at the Kremlin. "For us, it is
clear that the signing of the agreement is important, but it does
not settle all questions."


He said more than 20 agreements were in different stages of
negotiation between the countries.


"We know how much issues of transit and energy are important for
Latvia," he said, referring to discussions on border transit
issues and energy cooperation.


Kalvitis said it was important for his country to have "stable
and pragmatic relations" with Russia.


Moscow and Riga initialled an earlier version of the treaty in
1997.


But Russia subsequently refused to sign the pact after the Baltic
state appended a unilateral declaration that stressed that Latvia
had been occupied by the Soviet Union.


Under the 1997 border treaty, Russia was to keep the 1,294
-square-kilometre (500 -square-mile) Pytalovo district -- known
to Latvians as Abrene -- which Moscow annexed in 1944.


Tensions have remained high between Latvia and Russia since the
three Baltic states regained independence from Moscow in 1991
when the Soviet Union crumbled.


Baltic demands that Moscow apologise for 50 years of Soviet
occupation, which began in 1940, have been refused.


Russia has accused the Baltic states -- Latvia in particular --
of abusing the rights of their large Russian minorities.


Two parliamentary parties in Latvia have said they could vote
against ratification of the border agreement.


They are New Era, which has 18 seats in the 100-strong
parliament, and the Fatherland and Freedom party, which is a
junior member in Kalvitis' governing coalition, and has eight
lawmakers.


The European Union welcomed the signing of the treaty that would
delineate part of the EU's eastern border if ratified by both
countries' parliaments.

