

Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya does not believe that
Israel will accept the revived Arab initiative for peace with the
Jewish state, he told AFP in an interview at the Arab summit in
Riyadh.


"I don't expect at all that Israel will accept the peace plan,"
the Islamist premier said.


"They have not said that the Arab initiative is positive, but
that it contained something positive, which means that Israel
does not want to consider the plan as a whole."


Haniya said "the problem does not come from the Palestinians or
the Arabs but from Israel, which refuses to deal with the Arab
peace plan."


The Saudi-inspired plan envisages Arab states normalising ties
with Israel in return for an Israeli withdrawal from Arab land it
occupied in 1967, the creation of a Palestinian state and the
return of Palestinian refugees.


Foreign ministers from the 22-member Arab League agreed during
preparatory talks on Monday to revive the plan and form working
teams to hold contacts with all parties, including Israel.


Israel rejected the blueprint when it was first adopted in Beirut
in 2002, but has since softened its stance by saying that with
some modification the plan could be a basis for negotiation.


"The summit is being devoted to the initiative, which is good,"
said Haniya, who now heads a national unity government embracing
both his Islamist Hamas movement and the secular Fatah faction of
president Mahmud Abbas.


Hamas, which is considered a terror group by the European Union
and the United States, does not recognise Israel's right to
exist.


Haniya said substantial progress had been made towards the
release of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, who was captured by Gaza
militants nine months ago.


"Everyone we meet... insists on the Shalit issue, and we are
interested by this," he said.


The 20-year-old Israeli conscript was seized in a cross-border
raid last June by militants including members of Hamas's military
wing.


"There have been contacts with our brothers in Egypt and the
resistance factions which captured the soldier and I can confirm
there has been major progress," Haniya said.


"But it will require some time, I hope days.


"That depends on the Israelis," he added, in an apparent
reference to demands that Israel release Palestinian prisoners in
exchange.


Abbas said last week that he hoped Shalit would be freed soon,
but Israel has accused him of reneging on a promise to secure the
soldier's release before the formation of the new unity
government.

