

Britain's economy last year expanded faster than previously
thought despite a downward revision to fourth quarter growth,
official data revealed on Wednesday.


In a separate release, the Office for National Statistics (ONS)
revealed that Britain's current account deficit ballooned to a
record 12.7 billion pounds (18.7 billion euros, 24.9 billion
dollars) in the fourth quarter of 2006, compared with 10.5
billion pounds in the third quarter.


The current account refers to the net flow of current
transactions -- comprising goods, services, and interest payments
-- between countries.


Sterling weakened against the dollar and euro in European foreign
exchange trading after the downward revision to fourth quarter
economic growth data and news of the larger-than-expected current
account deficit.


The British economy grew by 2.8 percent in 2006 compared with 1.9
percent 2005, which was faster than last month's estimate of 2.7
percent, the ONS said.


British gross domestic product grew by 0.7 percent during the
fourth quarter of 2006 from the third quarter, down from the
previous estimate of 0.8 percent.


"The modest downward revision in fourth-quarter GDP growth is
countered by upward revisions to the back data," Global Insight
analyst Howard Archer said. The ONS revised upwards its estimates
for the first two quarters of 2006.


Last week, British finance minister Gordon Brown maintained his
economic growth forecasts as he unveiled his eleventh and
probably final budget before taking over from Prime Minister Tony
Blair later this year.


Brown predicted economic growth of 2.75-3.25 percent in 2007 and
of 2.5-3.0 percent in 2008 and 2009.


On Wednesday, the ONS revealed that fourth quarter growth was hit
by a 1.6-percent quarterly decline in utilities sector output,
partly because of maintenance work at two nuclear power stations.


The data meanwhile comes ahead of next week's rate meeting of the
Bank of England.


"Despite the fall in headline GDP growth, strong domestic final
sales growth and upward revisions earlier in the year add
arguments to further monetary policy tightening," Investec
analyst David Page said.


However the Bank of England was likely to wait until May before
taking interest rates higher than the current level of 5.25
percent, according to most economists.

