

Britain announced Wednesday a freeze on all official ties with
Iran over the Islamic state's detention of 15 sailors and marines
in the Gulf.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett made the announcement shortly
after Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to bolster pressure on
Tehran, which he said faces "total isolation."


"We are now in a new phase of diplomatic activity....We need to
focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on the
resolution of this issue," she said.


"We will therefore be imposing a freeze on all other official
bilateral business with Iran," she added in a statement to
lawmakers on the escalating crisis between London and Tehran.


"We will keep other aspects of our policy towards Iran under
close review and continue to proceed carefully. But no-one should
be in any doubt of the seriousness with which we regard these
events," she added.


The statement came after British military officials unveiled
documentary evidence they said showed the Britons were 1.7
nautical miles (3.15 kilometres) inside Iraqi waters when they
were detained.


Blair also vowed to "ratchet up" international pressure on
Tehran, which it said faced "total isolation" over the stand-off.


A Foreign Office spokesman said the freeze would cover all
government-to- government contact except on the issue of
releasing the naval personnel.


"All official inward and outward visits between Iran and the UK
will be stopped, the issuing of visas to Iranian officials will
be suspended," the spokesman told AFP.


"British government support for other events will be put on hold,
for instance support for trade missions to Iran."


Another spokesman added: "Every level we can -- official level,
ministerial level, everywhere there are levers to pull, we are
pulling."


"We have been offered very whole-hearted and strong support from
our many allies, all of whom have expressed grave concern and all
of whom have been willing to try to help," he added.


London insists the eight sailors and seven marines were
conducting routine anti- smuggling operations when they were
seized at gunpoint in the north of the Gulf on Friday.


The Britons' detention has triggered a mounting crisis between
London and Tehran, which is already facing increasing pressure
from the West over its nuclear plans.

