

Australian hopes of striking a pre-Olympic psychological blow
could be kept in check by an on-form British men's pursuit team
here at the world track championships on Friday.


The second day of the competition features four gold medal finals
in the women's individual pursuit, the men's team pursuit, the
keirin and the men's 15km scratch.


But it is the team pursuit, an event in which defending champions
Australia also hold the Olympic title and world record (3min
56.610sec) that is most likely to thrill the spectators here at
the brand new Palma Arena.


The likelihood of a Britain v Australia final, which thrilled the
fans in Bordeaux last year, is however far from certain.


Britain have been going from strength to strength in the 16-lap
endurance test in the World Cup having recently welcomed back
Olympic individual pursuit champion Bradley Wiggins with open
arms.


The Belgian-born Englishman has a career in road cycling but
having won three Olympic medals in Athens his return after a long
absence from the World Cup track circuit is crucial to Britain's
Olympic ambitions.


Wiggins proved at the Manchester leg of the World Cup in February
he has lost none of his track talent, winning the individual
competition and contributing to the team's gold in the event
ahead of Russia.


Australia, who had fielded a young and relatively inexperienced
quartet, finished sixth in qualifying and out of the medals.


But that does not mean they won't be in medals contention here.


The Aussies' World Cup strategy is all about making sure they
meet the necessary championships qualifying criteria and give
their young riders some international experience.


The Olympic champions did the same last season before beating
Britain in the final.


And at least three of that world title-winning team - Mark
Jamieson, Matthew Goss and Peter Dawson - are already lining up
for Friday.


Nevertheless, Britain's form, shown by a rare sub-four minute
time (3:59.876) during qualifying in Manchester, is coming to the
boil nicely.


Wiggins has not been part of a team pursuit in competition since
the Athens Olympics, and while admitting they are spoiled for
choice in selection terms, he added: "It is certainly the best
team I've ever ridden in.


"We have been hitting the numbers in the team pursuit and I can't
see us being beat."


In the women's individual pursuit, Sarah Hammer approaches the
defence of her historic world title for the United States last
year full of confidence.


However Hammer is likely to be pushed all the way by Russia's
multiple world track champion Olga Slyusareva, Australian Katie
Mactier and Swiss iron man specialist Karin Thurig.


Britain are also looking to medal in that event through Cornwall-
based Wendy Houvenhagel, who won gold at the Manchester track
meet a month ago.


Australia's best chance of gold could come through either double
Olympic champion Ryan Bayley or Shane Perkins in the keirin.


That is if they manage to get past the likes of emerging keirin
rider Chris Hoy, the Scottish former kilometre specialist,
Frenchman Mickael Bourgoin, and above all Dutch master Theo Bos,
the reigning world champion.

