

Three Italian nationals have been charged as part of a corruption
probe into EU tenders, Belgian prosecutors said Wednesday
following police raids in four countries.


The three men, who were being held in custody in Brussels,
include a civil servant working for the European Commission, an
assistant to a member of the European Parliament and a
businessman, prosecutors said.


The three, who live in Belgium and whose names were not given,
were charged with forgery and using forged documents, corruption,
fraud and forming a criminal organisation, said spokesman Jos
Colpin.


"There were bribes of millions of euros for more than 10 years,"
said Colpin.


European Commission spokesman Johannes Laitenberger dismissed
parallels with a corruption scandal in the late 1990s that
brought down the Commission at the time, saying the EU executive
has done "everything possible to cast light" on the current case.


The bribes were paid in relation to public tenders for buildings
housing "European Commission delegations outside of EU territory"
and for providing security equipment, Colpin said.


The civil servant, aged 46, works for the Commission services
responsible for managing delegations' infrastructure.


The second person charged, aged 60, is the personal assistant of
an Italian member of the European Parliament and the third
person, 39, runs a real estate consortium.


More than 150 police took part on Tuesday in more than 30 dawn
raids in Belgium, France, Italy and Luxembourg as part of the
corruption investigation, which is trying to establish the
conditions under which some European public tenders were awarded.


The EU's anti-fraud office OLAF, the Italian Carabinieri, French
financial police, and Belgian federal and fraud squad officers
all played roles in the raids.


They were carried out on the European Commission's premises and
the European Parliament as well as homes, businesses and banking
offices.


European Commission spokesman Johannes Laitenberger said that the
EU's executive arm had triggered the investigation and was "doing
all it possibly can" to help it.


"The real question is to what degree prices were increased," he
said, describing the Commission as the "victim" of the fraud.


Laitenberger said that once the investigation was concluded, the
Commission would consider taking "disciplinary action and also
perhaps bringing a case to court if necessary."


Corruption cases at EU institutions are a sensitive issue after a
scandal in the late 1990s brought the entire European Commission
down.


Last July, the EU's top court found former French prime minister
Edith Cresson guilty of favouritism when she was a commissioner.


Cresson, who served as research and education commissioner from
1995 to 1999, was notably accused of hiring a dentist from her
home town, Rene Berthelot, as an advisor, despite being warned it
was against EU rules.


The scandal surrounding Cresson, who was French prime minister in
1991 and 1992, helped spark the collective resignation in March
1999 of the entire European Commission under then president
Jacques Santer.

