

Three Italian nationals have been charged and are being held in
custody in Brussels as part of a corruption probe into tenders
awarded by the European Commission, Belgian prosecutors said
Wednesday.


The three include a civil servant working for the European
Commission, an assistant to a member of the European Parliament
and a businessman, prosecutors said.


The three men, who live in Belgium and whose names were not
given, were charged with forgery and using forged documents,
corruption, fraud and forming a criminal organisation, said
spokesman Jos Colpin.


"There were bribes of millions of euros for more than 10 years,"
said Colpin.


The bribes were paid in relation to public tenders for buildings
housing "European Commission delegations outside of EU
territory", he said.


The civil servant, aged 46, works for the Commission services
responsible for managing delegations' infrastructure.


The second person charged, aged 60, is the personal assistant of
an Italian member of the European Parliament and the third
person, 39, runs a real estate consortium.


More than 150 police took part on Tuesday in more than 30 dawn
raids in Belgium, France, Italy and Luxembourg as part of the
corruption investigation, which is trying to establish the
conditions under which some European public tenders were awarded.


Corruption cases at EU institutions are a sensitive issue after a
scandal in the late 1990s brought the entire European Commission
down.


Last July, the EU's top court found former French premier Edith
Cresson guilty of favouritism when she was a commissioner.


Cresson, who served as research and education commissioner from
1995 to 1999, was notably accused of hiring a dentist from her
home town, Rene Berthelot, as an advisor, despite being warned it
was against EU rules.


The scandal surrounding Cresson, who was French prime minister in
1991 and 1992, helped spark the collective resignation in March
1999 of the entire European Commission under then president
Jacques Santer.

