

Chinese President Hu Jintao met industry chiefs in Russia's oil-
rich Tatarstan region on Wednesday during a visit aimed at
securing energy supplies and smoothing relations between the
neighbouring countries.


Hu attended a trade exhibition in Kazan, capital of the mainly
Muslim province in central Russia, and met heads of heavy
industry including major oil producer Tatneft and local aircraft
and ship manufacturers.


He was also to meet students at Kazan's university before holding
talks with Tatarstan's leader Mintimir Shaimiyev.


Hu hailed plans by Chinese car maker Great Wall to begin
production this year at a plant in the province, expected to turn
out 50,000 cars annually for the Russian and European markets.


"Together with the Tatar president... we have looked over this
investment plan and hope that Great Wall will soon start
producing cars in the town of Elabuga" in Tatarstan, Hu was
quoted by ITAR-TASS news agency as saying.


The Chinese president began his three-day trip to Russia on
Monday by securing an agreement on increasing deliveries of
Russian oil by rail.


But the Russian press on Wednesday reported unresolved questions
about how the accord would be implemented.


There has also been no firm Russian commitment on a Chinese
request to extend a pipeline currently being built from Siberia
to Russia's east coast, so as to deliver directly to China.


China received a total of 15 million tonnes of Russian oil last
year, including 11 million tonnes transported by rail, and is
keen to secure more.


On Tuesday, Hu and Russian President Vladimir Putin oversaw the
signing of four billion dollars of trade deals as well as an
agreement by the two sides' space agencies on a joint mission to
Mars.


Twenty-one trade contracts were signed, including long-term
export contracts for Russian steel products.


The sides also agreed to launch a joint mission to Mars in 2009
in which a Chinese satellite will take off aboard a Russian
rocket, the China National Space Administration said.


A small satellite will be launched along with Phobos Explorer, a
Russian spacecraft, probably in October 2009, to collect soil
samples from Mars, the administration said.


Earlier Hu and Putin talked up the diplomatic ties between their
countries, which have taken closely aligned positions in talks on
North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and the Iranian nuclear
standoff.


In a joint declaration on Monday, the two presidents said the
Iranian issue "should be resolved exclusively in a peaceful way,"
and welcomed the "positive dynamic" in six-party talks aimed at
curbing North Korea's nuclear programme.


But the RBK business daily reported that Russia's number two oil
company Rosneft had failed on Tuesday to sign a planned one-
billion dollar deal with China's Sinopec (China Petroleum
Chemical Corp) on supplying three million tonnes of Russian oil.


The deal, which foresaw Rosneft supplying oil via rail through
Mongolian territory, had faltered due to a tariff dispute between
Rosneft and Russian railways, said RBK, citing a Russian railways
source.


An analyst at Moscow's MDM bank, Peter Westin, said that the
over-riding priority for China remained securing energy supplies
but that Russia also benefited from selling steel and weapons to
China, although details of the latter are not widely publicized.


Westin said that a solid commitment on the pipeline project to
China was only likely after the coming election season in Russia,
which culminates with a presidential vote next March at which
Putin is due to stand down.


"I expect we'll see very little movement on bilateral issues as
we have elections coming.... In an election year it seems to be
more popular to be protectionist," Westin said.

