

The Philippines' latest bizarre hostage drama ended with the
abductor of a busload of pre-school children kissing them goodbye
before he was disarmed and arrested on Wednesday.


As Amando "Jun" Ducat was taken away by police after the 10-hour
standoff in downtown Manila he was greeted by cheers and chants
of "Ducat, Ducat, Ducat!" by a crowd of mainly poor Filipinos who
had come along to watch.


After the intervention by two local politicians, who ignored
police demands not to get involved, the 31 bewildered children,
aged between five and seven, were carried from the bus under the
glare of flood lights and television cameras.


Their parents who had waited anxiously throughout the day in a
small government building nearby cried and said prayers of
thanks.


What confused many of the parents was the fact that Ducat, 56,
was the head of the pre-school and was known for helping the
poor.


For the children, the day trip to the countryside that they had
embarked on was instead spent waiting in the parked bus as the
crowds outside grew and grew.


As the sun beat down Ducat kept the bus's engine running so the
children would be cool while he made a series of rambling
political statements on radio in which he called for free
schooling and housing for Manila's poor.


After 10 hours he agreed to end his stand and let the children
go, tenderly kissing some on the head as they came down the bus
steps and into the arms of policemen who carried them away to be
reunited with their parents.


Ducat could be seen with a sub-machine gun slung across his chest
sitting in the front seat of the bus and clutching two hand
grenades but police could not say Wednesday night if the weapons
were real or not.


Throughout the day hundreds of spectators watched as police and
journalists jostled for positions around the bus.


The de facto governor of Metropolitan Manila, Bayani Fernando,
assumed control of the drama over the head of the local police
chief.


Film star and Senator Ramon Revilla, who was known to Ducat,
boarded the bus early on in the drama -- with hands held up
showing he was not armed in a scene that could have been played
out in one of his films.


Later in the day Luis "Chavit" Singson, a provincial governor who
helped bring former President Joseph Estrada down in 2001, walked
up to the bus and entered to negotiate with Ducat.


As the deadline of 7:00 pm neared the children started to pull
back the curtains covering the bus windows and began waving.


Supporters lit candles and placed them along a path outside the
bus. As the last child left the bus, Ducat, looking haggard and
drawn, clutched two hand grenades.


Singson leaned over and clutched the suspect's hands and could be
seen pushing the pins back into the grenades which he took from
Ducat's hands.


Within seconds Ducat was whisked away by police for
interrogation.


The children, who ate pizza and ice-cream on the bus, were taken
by a fleet of ambulances with their parents to hospitals nearby
to be checked over.


Within 20 minutes of the drama ending the flood lights were
switched off, road blocks were removed and the onlookers began
making their way home.

