

Some 4,000 people demonstrated in the Polish capital Wednesday in
support of efforts by a far-right governing party to get the
country's tough anti-abortion law anchored in the constitution.


Answering the call of the ultra-Catholic station Radio Maryja,
the demonstrators surrounded St Alexander's church in the heart
of Warsaw and prepared to march on parliament after attending
mass.


"I am for life," said Beata, a 40-something mother of six who had
travelled with her husband from their home village 50 kilometres
(30 miles) east of Warsaw.


"Whales, dogs and cats are protected, but that's something
refused to innocent children," she told AFP.


Anti-abortion activists are piling on the pressure on lawmakers
as Poland's parliament ponders a draft bill by the League of
Polish Families (LPR).


The LPR wants to have a "right to life from the moment of
conception" written into the constitution, effectively blocking
any future liberalisation of the abortion law and potentially
opening the way for a total ban.


An AFP reporter at the scene saw demonstrators brandishing
photographs of aborted foetuses, and banners with a quote from
the late, Polish-born pope John Paul II: "A nation that kills its
own children has no future".


Poland, where more than 90 percent of the 38.2-million-strong
population are professed Roman Catholics, already has among the
toughest abortion rules in Europe.


Liberal abortion laws were widespread in the communist bloc, but
Poland introduced tough new rules in 1993, four years after the
collapse of the former regime.


Abortion is currently only permitted in cases of rape, incest,
danger to the mother's life or irreversible malformation of the
foetus.


Doctors who break the law face a two-year jail term, although
women who have a termination do not face sanctions.


Four weeks ago, the LPR proposal won the backing of a
parliamentary commission.


The powerful Polish Bishops' Conference, which is the Church's
ruling body in Poland, is also in favour.


Opponents, including feminist groups, say the bill could lead to
an outright ban and simply strengthen the already flourishing
back street abortion industry.


Around a thousand feminists turned out to try to counter the
Radio Marjya demonstration Wednesday, demanding a liberalisation
of the abortion law and waving banners marked "Poland is a
Vatican colony" and "Abortion is a woman's right".


The proposal to change the constitution, which may be up for a
vote next month, would need support from 307 of the 460 members
of parliament to pass. Ordinary changes to the law only require a
simple majority.


The ultra-Catholic, nationalist LPR is a junior member of the
coalition government led by the conservative Law and Justice
(PiS) party of Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski.


The premier and his identical twin, President Lech Kaczynski, who
are both professed Catholics, have spoken against the LPR draft.


PiS has proposed its own constitutional amendment saying that the
current law is "immutable", rather than setting down a specific
right to life.


Niether PiS nor the LPR are likely to muster enough votes,
however, because the coalition has only 245 seats in parliament
and the liberal and left-wing opposition are against the changes.

