

Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was arrested
on Wednesday in a raid at the headquarters of his Movement for
Democratic Change in Harare, a party spokesman said.


Tsvangirai and around 20 administrative members of staff were
detained by members of President Robert Mugabe's security
services shortly before the MDC leader had been due give a press
conference on the alleged abduction of a party activist.


"All members of staff and Morgan Tsvangirai have been arrested,"
the party's secretary general, Tendai Biti, told AFP.


"At least 20 people were in the office at the time," Biti added.


There was no immediate confirmation of the arrests from the
Zimbabwean authorities, but they would mark the second time this
month that Tsvangirai had been detained.


Dozens of police had sealed off the area around the party's
offices in the upmarket 1st Street shopping mall during the raid,
according to an AFP correspondent at the scene.


The security forces were armed with teargas cannisters, sticks,
riot helmets and AK47 rifles.


Many shop owners shut their stores when the security forces
turned up in force, apparently fearful of violence.


Dozens of MDC activists, including Tsvangirai, were detained by
members of Mugabe's security services and then assaulted earlier
this month while trying to stage an anti-government rally on
March 11.


Mugabe, who has been unapologetic about the use of force to
suppress the opposition, is due in Tanzania for a regional summit
where the political and economic crisis in Zimbabwe is expected
to be debated.


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has steadily mounted amid an economic meltdown, with
inflation at 1,730 percent and widespread food shortages in the
one-time bread basket of southern Africa.


Despite his ordeal at the hands of the security services,
Tsvangirai has defiantly continued to call for Mugabe's ouster.


Talking to journalists after a memorial service on Tuesday for an
MDC activist who was shot dead on March 11, Tsvangirai said that
the assaults had served to unite the formerly fractious
opposition.


"You can see that everybody is united and is mobilised and
confronting the dictatorship," he said.


"There is no dictator in this world who has succeeded to oppress
the people forever ... We cannot dignify an old man who has lost
his mind," he said.

