

The United States, Saudi Arabia and Israel have drawn up an
initiative to resolve the question of Palestinian refugees, an
Israeli daily reported on Wednesday as an Arab summit opened in
Riyadh.


The refugee question is one of the thorniest obstacles in
international efforts to resolve the decades-long Israeli-
Palestinians conflict.


The initiative would offer financial compensation to those
refugees of the 1948 Arab-Israeli War who agree to remain in
their current countries of residence, said the report in Yediot
Aharonot.


Under a five-year-old Arab peace plan due to be formally adopted
at the summit in Riyadh, Israel would be offered a full
normalisation of ties with the Arab world in return for
withdrawing from all occupied Arab territory, the establishment
of a Palestinian state and a return of refugees.


Israel rejected the take-it-or-leave-it plan when it was unveiled
in 2002. Lately, however, it has said the initiative could be a
good basis for negotiations if the clauses on refugees are
dropped.


The Arab states have thus far refused to alter the initiative.


One of the clauses calls for the return of Palestinians who fled
or were forced out in 1948, the other rules out their permanent
settlement in the Arab states where they or their descendants
currently live.


Under the new initiative reported in Yediot on Wednesday,
refugees who do not agree to remain in their current host
countries for monetary compensation would be allowed to return to
the Palestinian territories.


For those choosing to stay put, Saudi Arabia, the US and oil
emirates in the Gulf would finance multi-billion-dollar projects
to improve their quality of life, Yediot said.


According to the United Nations agency for Palestinian Refugees,
UNRWA, there are currently more than four million Palestinian
refugees who live mostly in the Palestinian territories, Jordan,
Lebanon, Syria and Libya.


More than 900,000 Palestinians were registered with UNRWA in
1950, two years after the establishment of the Jewish state.


Israel fiercely opposes allowing refugees to return to lands they
occupied prior to the 1948 war, arguing the influx would
effectively erase the Jewish character of the state.

