

Explosives used by extremists in some bomb attacks in the
Philippines are strikingly similar to devices captured from
Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) suspects in Indonesia, Filipino police said
Wednesday.


This is proof that Indonesians Umar Patek and Dulmatin, both JI
members believed hiding in the southern Philippine island of
Mindanao, have passed bomb-making skills onto their Filipino
counterparts, Superintendent Albert Ignatius Ferro said.


Ferro, who heads the Philippine Bomb Data Center, which has
investigated bombings by the Abu Sayyaf extremist group, said the
group's devices resembled bombs captured by Indonesian police in
the city of Bandung in 2003.


One of the bombs used in Mindanao consisted of military ordnance
placed inside a lunch box and which could be detonated remotely.
Ferro said the structure of the Philippine bombs corresponded to
drawings seized by Indonesian police.


"The drawings that we were able to get from our Indonesian
counterparts are indicative that the drawings are components of
the things that they are using," Ferro told the Global Security
Asia forum on domestic security threats.


The attacks in the Philippines included three simultaneous
explosions on Valentine's Day 2005 in the Manila financial
district of Makati and two southern cities that left several
people killed and wounded.


Dulmatin and Umar Patek -- described by police as key suspects in
the 2002 bombings on Indonesia's resort island of Bali -- have
been the target of a massive military operation in Mindanao's
Jolo island, where they are being sheltered by local Muslim armed
groups.


Authorities have blamed JI for the Bali attacks which killed 202
people, and for a series of other deadly blasts in Indonesia.


Senior Superintendent Tito Karnavian, head of intelligence at
Detachment 88, an elite US-trained Indonesian police unit, said
the Bandung devices were "personally made" by JI bomb expert
Azahari Husin, a Malaysian killed during a raid by Indonesian
police in November 2005.


Azahari, Dulmatin and Umar Patek were "classmates" at an
extremist training camp in Afghanistan in the 1990s and probably
had the same teacher in the making of explosives, Karnavian said,
explaining why the bombs bear the same characteristics.

