

Iran said on Wednesday it will release "within a day or two" a
British servicewoman whose detention along with 14 male
colleagues has prompted London to freeze ties with the Islamic
republic.


"The woman will be released within a day or two," foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told AFP.


"For the other 14, preliminary investigations are going on. We
will make a decision when the investigations come to an end."


The British ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, was to meet
Iranian foreign ministry officials again over the fate of the 15,
the embassy in Tehran said in a statement.


Faye Turney is the only woman among the eight Royal Navy sailors
and seven marines Britain says were on a routine anti-smuggling
operation in Iraqi waters when they were seized at gunpoint in
the north of the Gulf on Friday.


Tehran, which is already at odds with the West over its
controversial nuclear programme, says they entered Iranian
territorial waters illegally.


Earlier an Arabic-language Iranian television station said it
would broadcast "new footage" of the 15, whose detention has
prompted Britain to freeze ties with Tehran.


Al-Alam also said it would air an interview with Turney, a 26
-year-old married mother of a girl aged three.


A representative of the station said it would be shown in one or
two hours.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has announced a freeze
on all official ties with the Islamic state as Prime Minister
Tony Blair vowed to increase pressure on Tehran, which he said
faces "total isolation."


A prominent Iranian MP said earlier that Britain should apologise
if it is proved that its detained sailors had mistakenly entered
Iranian waters, the semi-official Fars news agency reported.


"If it is proven that a mistake has been made the issue will be
resolved with an apology from the British government," deputy
parliament speaker Mohammad Reza Bahonar said.


Bahonar described the alleged entry into Iranian waters as an
"obvious aggression" and said: "If it is proven to be
intentional, the British government should explain its aim and
clarify how it is going to compensate."

