

A media meeting in Kabul was critical Wednesday of the exchange
of an Italian journalist for Taliban prisoners and called for the
release of an Afghan reporter still held by the militants.


Afghan freelance journalist Ajmal Naqshbandi was captured in the
southern province of Helmand on March 4 with Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, who was freed around two weeks later, and an
Afghan driver who was beheaded.


The government had exchanged Mastrogiacomo for "very important,
high-profile Taliban and didn't even think about a citizen of
Afghanistan," media activist Fazel Sancharaki said in an address
at the start of the meeting on media development.


In translated remarks, he said he hoped the government would take
"interest" in the fate of one of its citizens.


Sancharaki also criticised the Taliban for "claiming to be
Afghan" but then freeing an Italian journalist and not one of
their own compatriots.


The head of a key journalist union, Rahimullah Samander, called
in his address for the release of the reporter and another he
said was in the custody of the Afghan security forces.


Samander, from the Afghan Independent Journalists Association,
told AFP that Afghan journalists working in the south had told
him they felt more under threat since the controversial deal.


"The Taliban could use this as a tool in the future -- it is
risky," he said.


The government has said the exchange was a one-off and it is
doing what it can to free Naqshbandi.


The Italian ambassador, Ettore Francesco Sequi, told the
conference of about 100 people his government had "from the
beginning requested the release of all three because life has no
nationality."


The newspaper Mastrogiacomo worked for, La Repubblica, was
raising money for the family of the slain driver and there were
activities in Rome to press for Naqshbandi's freedom, he said.


Afghan reporters in the western city of Herat meanwhile held a
small demonstration on Wednesday to demand the 25-year-old's
release, and a sit-in outside the parliament in Kabul is planned
this week.


In Brussels Tuesday, the United States led complaints from NATO
countries about the deal.


"The US has had a long held view that we should not negotiate for
hostages," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told
reporters after a meeting of the North Atlantic Council of
officials from NATO's 26 countries.


"The great majority of voices today were supportive of that," he
said.

