

Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was arrested
for the second this month on Wednesday in a raid at the
headquarters of his Movement for Democratic Change, a party
spokesman said.


Tsvangirai and around 20 administrative members of staff were
detained by President Robert Mugabe's security services, shortly
before the MDC leader had been due to give a press conference at
the Harvest House offices in Harare.


"All members of staff and Morgan Tsvangirai have been arrested,"
the party's secretary general, Tendai Biti, told AFP.


"At least 20 people were in the office at the time," Biti added.


In a statement, the MDC said Tsvangirai had been taken away as he
was about to brief the press on "the escalating and systematic
campaign of violence and intimidation undertaken by the Mugabe
government in recent days".


There was no immediate confirmation of the arrests from the
Zimbabwean authorities but a senior police source did confirm
that the offices in downtown Harare had been raided by officers.


"We are looking for petrol bombs," said the source on condition
of anonymity.


Dozens of armed riot police had sealed off the area around the
party's offices in the upmarket 1st Street shopping mall during
the raid, according to an AFP correspondent at the scene.


Streets around the normally busy shopping area were largely
deserted apart from the riot police with their sniffer dogs.


People who had wandered out of their offices to see what was
going on were promptly ordered out of the area while many shop
owners shut their stores when the security forces turned up in
force, apparently fearful of violence.


Dozens of MDC activists, including Tsvangirai, were detained by
members of Mugabe's security services and then assaulted earlier
this month while trying to stage an anti-government rally on
March 11.


Mugabe, who has been unapologetic about the use of force to
suppress the opposition, is due in Tanzania for a regional summit
where the political and economic crisis in Zimbabwe is expected
to be debated.


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has steadily mounted amid an economic meltdown, with
inflation at 1,730 percent and widespread food shortages in the
one-time bread basket of southern Africa.


Mugabe is expected to come under pressure from his peers in Dar
es Salaam to engage with the MDC but the Zimbabwean leader has
insisted the opposition must bear responsibility for the unrest.


The MDC has been accused by the authorities of launching a number
of fire bomb attacks, charges which the opposition has denied.


Despite his ordeal at the hands of the security services,
Tsvangirai has defiantly continued to call for Mugabe's ouster.


Talking to journalists after a memorial service on Tuesday for an
MDC activist who was shot dead on March 11, Tsvangirai said that
the assaults had served to unite the formerly fractious
opposition.


"You can see that everybody is united and is mobilised and
confronting the dictatorship," he said.


"There is no dictator in this world who has succeeded to oppress
the people forever ... We cannot dignify an old man who has lost
his mind," he said.


Mugabe has recently indicated his desire to stand for another
six-year term of office at elections due in 2008.

