

Right-wing French presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy on
Wednesday defended the actions of police who used tear-gas and
baton charges to control scores of rioters in a crowded Paris
railway station.


In scenes reminiscent of the November 2005 riots, 13 people were
arrested in several hours of confrontations Tuesday evening at
the Gare du Nord which were triggered by an attempt to detain a
fare-dodger.


Commuters cowered in dismay as groups of young people threw
projectiles at police, smashing shop-windows, advertising
hoardings and drink distributors. Calm was not restored till
after midnight.


"We are the only country where it is considered abnormal to
arrest someone who doesn't pay for his ticket. If the police is
not there to ensure a minumum of order, what exactly is its
role?" said Sarkozy, who stepped down as interior minister on
Monday.


His replacement Francois Baroin condemned the rioters, saying
that "nothing can justify what happened yesterday evening at the
Gare du Nord."


"A perfectly normal ticket check degenerated into urban guerrilla
warfare, into unacceptable, intolerable violence. We live in a
state of law and of freedom -- but there is no freedom without
rules," he said.


However the Socialist Party (PS) opposition said that Sarkozy's
legacy at the interior ministry -- including the 2005 riots --
had stirred up animosity between police and young people from the
high-immigration city suburbs or "banlieues".


The Gare du Nord clashes "illustrate the climate of tension, the
gulf and the violence dividing the police and the population. The
conditions for a relationship of calm and trust have urgently to
be re-established," said Julien Dray, spokesman for PS candidate
Segolene Royal.


Royal and Sarkozy are the frontrunners in the presidential
election to take place on April 22 and May 6.


The Socialists drew a parallel between the station riot and an
incident last week in which police detained a Chinese illegal
immigrant outside a junior school in Paris, sparking an angry
stand-off with parents.


"The incidents in the rue Rampal and those in the Gare du Nord
point to a Sarkozy-inspired climate of tension, abuse of power,
verbal violence and stigmatisation," said PS deputy Jean-
Christophe Cambadelis. "This is the 'France of tomorrow' that
Sarkozy is promising."


Sarkozy, 52, is widely hated by young people in the city suburbs
where he is accused of instituting a policy of hardline police
repression. Widely-reported remarks in which he called
delinquents "rabble" and promised to clean out criminal gangs
with a "power-hose" have damaged his image.


In Tuesday evening's incidents many of the young rioters chanted
obscene slogans naming Sarkozy.


The trouble began when officials from the metro operator RATP
stopped a 33-year- old man who had jumped over a turnstile to
avoid paying. They say the man reacted violently and police were
called. However some witnesses said his arrest was carried out
with unnecessary force.


Crowds of young people then gathered in the underground section
of the Gare du Nord, which is a major rail hub for the Paris
suburbs as well as an international terminus.


A spokesman for the police union Alliance said that hostility to
the police is increasingly widespread in France.


"The principle of intervening when other people are arrested is
becoming general. There is an instinct to challenge everything in
uniform," said Dominique Achispon.


The rioters had no known link to the arrested man, who according
to Baroin is an illegal immigrant with a long police record.

