

The extraordinary Michael Phelps' quest for a record eight gold
medals at the world swimming championships gathers more pace as
he closes in on another title Thursday.


The 21-year-old American superstar, who pulled away from Pieter
van den Hoogenband to win the 200m freestyle in world record time
Tuesday, is lining in the 200m medley on the fifth night.


Phelps now has three gold medals after swimming in America's
4x100m freestyle victory, and in the 200m freestyle and
Wednesday's 200m butterfly.


The young giant stands like a colossus over these championships
in his bid to break compatriot Mark Spitz's record seven gold
medals at next year's Beijing Olympics.


His coach Bob Bowman said the best of Phelps is still to come,
saying his freestyle stroke is much better now than what it was
at the 2004 Athens Olympics.


"He is much more efficient and balanced ... In Athens he was
swimming like an age group swimmer, now he swims more like Ian
Thorpe," said Bowman, who is also the American head men's coach
at the championships.


The 200m medley is one of four events that Phelps is the world
record holder and he is in imperious form as he works his way
towards a record eight gold medals at the worlds.


Italian Filippo Magnini is bidding to become only the third
swimmer after American Matt Biondi and Russian Alexander Popov to
win back-to-back 100m freestyle world titles on Thursday.


Magnini faces a hot field, including world record holder and
Olympic champion van den Hoogenband, who will be looking for his
first-ever world title after making his name at the Olympics.


Australia's world record holder Jessicah Schipper gets her chance
to avenge her controversial loss in the 200m butterfly at the
last Montreal world championships.


Schipper was denied victory in what the Australian team claimed
was an illegal one-handed touch from Polish winner Otilya
Jedrzejczak at the finish.


Germany's world record women's team will get their chance to put
a lacklustre world championships behind them in their 4x200m
freestyle relay event on Thursday.


The Americans, led by Katie Hoff and Dana Vollmer, are vying to
stretch their team's dominance of the event at the world
championships to four consecutive wins.

