

Amando "Jun" Ducat, the pre-school boss who took hostage a
busload of children and teachers in the Philippines capital on
Wednesday, is known by friends as a do-gooder with an eye for
publicity stunts.


The lanky businessman and building contractor had built a nursery
school to give a start to the children of desperate slum dwellers
who inhabit a drugs- and crime-blighted sliver of foreshore on
Manila Bay called Parola.


But early Wednesday a promised field trip to Tagaytay -- an
upland playground for the rich near Manila -- for 32 of the five-
year-olds and two of their teachers turned into a horror bus
ride.


Ducat and two associates, armed with grenades and machine pistols
camouflaged under a load of food and toys, wrested the rental
vehicle from the driver and drove it to a street beside Manila
city hall.


Neighbors and associates described Ducat as a moderately
successful businessman and building contractor who maintains a
house in the upscale gated community of BF Resort in southern
Manila. He had run for public office several times, but never
won.


A son of the suspect, Buboy Ducat, told reporters his father had
been railing about poverty and dirty politics and wanted his
voice to be heard.


"I don't have an idea why he did this," the son said.


Senator Alfredo Lim, a former Manila police chief, remembers
taking Ducat into custody after the businessman held hostage two
Roman Catholic priests in the San Roque parish of Manila in 1987
over a building contract dispute.


The priests were later freed unharmed and Ducat, who had used
fake grenades, was charged. But the case failed to finish, Lim
told local television.


Manila police said Ducat also had to be persuaded to climb down
from the top of a monument on a Manila roundabout in 1995 during
a publicity stunt to get the government to ban Chinese-Filipinos
from running for public office.


Both Lim and Senator Ramon Revilla, who went inside the bus
during the crisis to negotiate the release of one of the
children, said they were confident the hostage crisis would end
peacefully. Ducat did not disappoint them.

