

The Russian oil company Rosneft is interested in possibly
acquiring nearly all the production assets held by crippled
energy giant Yukos, Rosneft vice- president Mikhail Stavskii said
on Tuesday.


He was quoted by the news agency Ria Novosti a day after Rosneft
bought back 9.44 percent of its shares in Yukos for 7.6 billion
dollars (5.7 billion euros) during an auction.


"We are interested in practically all Yukos production
subsidiaries," he told the agency.


"We will see what we'll do," he said of auctions of additional
Yukos assets planned for the coming weeks.


Rosneft last week said it had obtained a loan of 22 billion
dollars that it was to use to acquire Yukos assets.


The next auction is scheduled for April 4, when 22 Yukos assets,
including a 20 percent stake in Gazprom Neft, which is an oil
subsidiary of gas giant Gazprom, and two other Yukos units,
Arktikgaz and Ourengoil.


Analysts said the price Rosneft paid for its Yukos shares on
Tuesday was well below the market value of the stake, which could
now be sold on to a strategic investor.


The auction marked the final chapter in the disintegration of
Yukos, which became Russia's largest oil company under its now
imprisoned former boss Mikhail Khodorkovsky.


Yukos was dismembered in a series of court cases after
Khodorkovsky was arrested at a Siberian airport in October 2003.


The company's fall cast a shadow over President Vladimir Putin's
reputation abroad.


Critics in Russia and the West have said the Kremlin drove a
politicized series of court cases to destroy Yukos, neutralise
Khodorkovsky's political ambitions and restore company assets to
state hands.


The former Yukos management, much of which has fled Russia, had
argued against the bankruptcy proceedings, saying that the
company was still solvent.


Khodorkovsky and other key figures involved in the company are
serving prison terms, with the former chief executive doing eight
years on embezzlement charges in Russia's Far Eastern province of
Chita.

