

Angry fans told Pakistani cricketers to "go to hell" as they
returned home Wednesday, still reeling from the murder of coach
Bob Woolmer and their humiliating World Cup exit.


Allrounder Shahid Afridi, spinner Danish Kaneria, wicket keeper
Kamran and Akmal and paceman Mohammad Sami were heckled by a
crowd of around 100 people after they touched down at Karachi
international airport.


"Why have you come back?" one fan shouted as the players were
protected by dozens of uniformed police, while another supporter
bellowed "Go to hell" at Afridi, an AFP reporter said.


When Kaneria tried to leave the arrivals lounge the crowd shouted
"Shame on you" and he went back inside, before asking for police
protection to help him leave, witnesses said.


Speaking briefly to the media before being driven away, Afridi
said that all the Pakistani players were feeling "disturbed"
after the events of the past two weeks.


Pakistan were dumped out of the World Cup by minnows Ireland on
March 18. A day later Woolmer's strangled body was found in his
room on the 12th floor of the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel in Kingston.


Asked about the inquiry into the murder of Woolmer, Afridi said:
"The police did ask us a few questions but these were normal
inquiries. We have been asked by the PCB (Pakistan Cricket Board)
not to speak much on the issue."


He added: "Just pray for us."


Akmal, who was going to take a connecting flight to Lahore,
refused to talk specifically about Woolmer's murder but paid
tribute to him.


"I don't want to say much on this issue but we all loved Bob. He
was a nice coach and a nice person. He was like a father to all
of us," he said.


Captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and some squad members were expected to
arrive in the eastern city of Lahore later Wednesday.


Allrounder Yasir Arafat landed at Islamabad international airport
early Wednesday but refused to comment before being driven away.


Pakistani police had earlier pledged to protect the players if
necessary.


"We are deploying police at the airport. We will not allow people
to go near the players," Lahore police chief Malik Iqbal told
AFP. "The players will be provided with mobile police escorts as
well."


Karachi police chief Azhar Farooqi said: "Police will escort the
players from the airport to their homes and will not allow any
untoward incident."


Vice captain Younis Khan and batsman Mohammad Yousuf returned to
Karachi late Monday.


The Pakistani players have come via Dubai and London, where they
kept a low profile for two days following their ill-fated World
Cup trip.


Team spokesman Pervez Mir said the players had no safety fears
about returning home, although he admitted that Pakistani fans
would be disappointed with their performance.


Speaking outside the team's hotel near London's Heathrow Airport
Tuesday, Mir said the team were "never a suspect" in the murder
of Woolmer.


However Jamaican Deputy Police Commissioner Mark Shields disputed
Mir's "pretty inaccurate statement, because nobody at this stage
can be ruled out of the inquiry."

