

More than 70 people burned to death in northern Nigeria when a
tanker lorry caught fire as they were stealing fuel from it,
police said Wednesday.


At least 100 other victims are being treated for burns, another
official said.


The accident happened on Monday evening in Kaduna state, Kaduna's
police spokesman Saad Yahaya said, adding that "more than 70
people have been confirmed dead."


"One hundred and one survivors, mostly youths, are being treated
.. for varying degrees of burns," Aliyu Saleh Raminkura, the
executive secretary of the state's emergency management agency
told AFP.


"The tanker turned over, the villagers came to scoop fuel and
then the tanker caught fire", he explained.


Yahaya said the tanker overturned while trying to park in the
village of Katugal, some 150 kilometres (90 miles) south of the
state capital Kaduna.


It was not immediately clear if the impact of the accident caused
fuel to leak from the tanker or whether the vehicle was
vandalized.


Events perceived as giving a negative image of the country are
not reported on by state media in Nigeria. This explains why news
of the accident took so long to become public.


Road accidents with large casualty figures are common in Nigeria
where vehicles are often poorly maintained, overloaded and driven
in a reckless fashion.


In November of last year a driver lost control of his lorry
outside Kaduna during gubernatorial primaries and crashed into a
crowd, crushing scores of people to death.


Almost equally common are fires where people perish whilst
helping themselves to fuel, be it from oil company installations
or trucks.


Nigeria's tens of millions who live in poverty rarely pass up on
opportunities to gather free fuel, which can always be sold in
jerrycans to motorists who run out, from pipelines or vehicles
that have either been damaged or vandalized.


Vandalism of pipelines and related installations is extremely
common, with an official report published last July registering
2,258 such acts in the previous five years.


For 2005 alone, an estimated 650,000 tonnes of crude was lost
through such incidents, according to the same report.


Last December a fire at a vandalised pipeline in Lagos killed
some 260 people who were scooping fuel from it in the hope of
making a few dollars.


Across the country in the past 10 years, thousands of people have
died while stealing oil.


In the worst such incident, in Jeese village in the southern
Delta State in 1998, more than 1,000 suspected fuel thieves were
roasted alive after an explosion.


The Nigerian authorities habitually show little sympathy for
those who die in such explosions, condemning them as greedy.


Nigeria is Africa's biggest crude oil producer but nevertheless
relies on imports for its refined product requirements as its own
refineries are not in working order.

