

Pakistan's suspended top judge called for the protection of
judicial independence Wednesday in his first public speech since
his removal by President Pervez Musharraf.


Military ruler Musharraf's regime has been rocked by a series of
protests and strikes by the legal fraternity and opposition
groups since he dismissed Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad
Chaudhry on March 9.


"The judiciary has to stand out as a strong entity that people
can trust and have confidence in," he told a gathering of more
than 2,000 lawyers in the garrison town of Rawalpindi, organized
by the local bar association.


Chaudhry, who read from a prepared speech, said he would not
comment explicitly on misconduct charges laid against him by
Musharraf, including that he got unfair promotions for his son.


"Neither will I deliver a political speech nor am I going to
comment on the reference" to Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council
by Musharraf, he said to a standing ovation lasting several
minutes.


However he praised the lawyers' community and several senior and
junior judges who resigned recently in an expression of
solidarity with him.


A convoy of lawyers in some 50 vehicles followed Chaudhry as he
was driven to the meeting from his house in Islamabad. They
changed "Long Live Justice Chaudhry" and "We are with you."


The judge was initially confined to his home after his
suspension, although the authorities said he was not under house
arrest.


Security outside his house was removed nearly two weeks ago,
after a panel of top judges hearing the accusations against him
declared that there should be no restrictions on his movement.


Secular opposition parties and Islamic hardliners who loathe
Musharraf's support for the US-led "war on terror" held
nationwide demonstrations on Monday, although the turnout was
modest.


Musharraf, who seized power in a bloodless coup in 1999, slammed
opposition leaders at a public rally on Tuesday for trying to
"politicise a purely judicial matter."


Opponents say Musharraf is trying to weaken the judiciary in a
bid to remain army chief past 2007, when the constitution says he
is meant to give up the position.


He is also expected to seek re-election for another five-year
presidential term by the outgoing parliament ahead of national
polls due late this year or early next -- a move that could also
spark legal challenges.

