

Ukrainian police are searching for two suspects in the murder of
a Russian businessman known as "Mad Max", who was shot dead
outside a Kiev court after being convicted of extortion, the
interior ministry said Wednesday.


Maskim Kurochkin, who had been in a Ukrainian jail since November
2006, was killed on Tuesday in the internal courtyard of the
courthouse as he was getting into a police van.


Witnesses claimed that two men wearing hoods and black jackets
had committed the crime, Ukraine's deputy interior minister
Mykola Kupianski told a press conference broadcast live on
television.


"They fled the scene of the crime in a Mazda," he said, adding
that the car was later found in downtown Kiev.


The deadly shot was fired from the attic of a neighbouring
building some 300 metres (985 feet) away, using "a foreign made
riffle" that was "relatively rare," Kupianski said.


The bullet that had pierced Kurochkin's heart had also injured
one of three police officers escorting him. The policeman had
undergone surgery Tuesday and his life was not in danger,
according to Kupianski.


"This crime had been elaborately planned over a long period of
time," he said.


Police were investigating whether the crime was linked to the
victim's business dealings in Ukraine or with Russian criminal
groups. "No political motives" were being probed," Kupianski
said.


The deputy interior minister said the crime appeared to be linked
to the shooting deaths of three Russians in a car near Kiev, as
well as the murder of another Russian who was head of the main
market in the eastern town of Dnipropetrovsk, of which Kurochkin
and a Ukrainian finance group were trying to gain control.


Kurochkin, who was in his 40s, admitted last year to funding the
electoral campaign of an extreme left, pro-Russian political
party in violation of Ukrainian law.


The Ukrainian police believe the man known as "Mad Max" was a
senior figure in Russian organised crime, and in March 2005 the
country's prosecutors opened three investigations against him.


He was accused of extortion of funds worth up to 10,000 dollars
(7,500 euros) and of obtaining, by favour from the previous
Ukrainian government,  control of hundreds of hectares of land
and several sanatoriums in the Crimea.


In November 2004, Kurochkin was targeted by a car bomb in the
centre of Kiev, but it missed him and severely injured his
bodyguards.

