

Sweden will abolish wealth tax this year, Swedish Prime Minister
Fredrik Reinfeldt, who heads a centre-right government elected in
September, said on Wednesday.


The move, the latest in a slew of economic reforms announced by
the government since it ousted the Social Democrats from power,
was broadly welcomed in political and business circles.


"We will propose to abolish wealth tax as of 2007 in our spring
budget bill," Reinfeldt, the leader of the conservative Moderate
Party, wrote in an article published in daily Dagens Nyheter.


The article was co-signed by the heads of the three other
government coalition partners, Maud Olofsson of the Centre Party,
Lars Leijonborg of the Liberals and Goeran Haegglund of the
Christian Democrats.


The spring budget bill, to be presented to parliament on April
16, is traditionally a revision of the autumn budget.


The move is aimed at attracting risk capital investments, which
would help companies grow and increase employment, the government
said.


"We hope to give a boost to the desire to invest in Sweden, in
order to create conditions for new, expansive companies and
create more new jobs," the four party leaders wrote.


They quoted Swedish tax authorities as saying that Swedish
capital worth about 500 billion kronor (53.6 billion euros, 72
billion dollars) is currently placed abroad for tax reasons.


In 2005, the state yielded some 4.8 billion kronor (514 million
euros, 688.2 dollars) in wealth tax. Some 225,000 people pay the
tax, representing about 2.5 percent of the population.


The tax is equivalent to 1.5 percent of wealth exceeding 1.5
million kronor (161,000 euros, 215,000 dollars) for singles and
3.0 million kronor for couples.


However, some of the country's richest entrepreneurs have been
exempt from wealth tax since 1997 -- including the family that
controls Swedish cheap and chic fashion retailer H&M -- since
they threatened to leave the country and take their companies
with them if they were forced to pay millions of dollars in
wealth tax.


The abolition of the tax is expected to be adopted in parliament,
where the four coalition partners hold a majority.


The measure will be compensated by a decrease in the tax break
granted to private pension savings.


An employee earning up to 400,000 kronor a year can deduct about
20,000 kronor for money invested in a private pension fund. The
government will now cap deductions at 12,000 kronor per person
per year.


The government said that of the 30 members of the Organisation
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), only five
countries, including Sweden, still have wealth tax.

