

Pakistani authorities slapped an indefinite curfew on a
northwestern district Wednesday after five people died in
escalating clashes between Taliban rebels and troops, officials
said.


Military helicopters circled over the remote town of Tank after
the latest clashes early Wednesday, in which a paramilitary
soldier and two other people were killed.


"The administration has imposed a curfew in district Tank for an
unspecified period in the wake of deteriorating law and order,"
local police chief Zulfikar Cheema told AFP.


The recent spate of bloodshed began on Monday when police clashed
with Taliban recruiters outside a high school in Tank, leaving a
local extremist leader and a policeman dead.


Gunmen late Tuesday took revenge by abducting the school
principal, Farid Mehsud, and his brother, their family said. They
have not been heard of since.


The principal had asked for police protection after local Taliban
visited his school and others in a bid to recruit youth to fight
"jihad" or holy war against NATO and US forces in Afghanistan.


Then overnight Taliban militants fired rockets and mortars at
government installations and private property in Tank, which
adjoins the lawless South Waziristan tribal region, the officials
said.


Security forces retaliated and a soldier of the paramilitary
Frontier Constabulary was killed in the clash, local police
official Noor Aslam told AFP. Two unidentified bodies were found
in the town's bazaar, he said.


Two guards at local banks were also injured, he added. Six banks
were also hit, along with a paramilitary fort, a college and some
government installations.


"We could not sleep, there were so many rockets exploding. They
lit up the night sky," said local resident Alam Gul.


Officials and rights groups have expressed concerns that
extremists demanding the imposition of Islamic Sharia law are
gaining increasing influence in northwest Pakistan.


A bomb in a weapons bazaar near the northwestern city of Peshawar
on Tuesday night damaged a call centre belonging to a man who had
previously received threatening letters from militants calling
him a "government spy".


The militants had recently shot the owner in the legs. They had
also warned barbers not to shave off beards and asked people to
shut snooker clubs and video shops.


Clashes last week between pro-government tribesmen and Uzbek and
Chechen Al- Qaeda militants in parts of South Waziristan left 160
people dead, 130 of them foreign insurgents, officials have said.

