

India voiced concern on Wednesday over the first-ever air raid
staged by Tamil Tiger rebels and said that next week's regional
summit would focus on escalating violence in Sri Lanka.


"We have made it clear to everyone that we are very concerned at
the escalated violence in Sri Lanka and the air strike is one
aspect of it," Indian Foreign Secretary Shiv Shankar Menon told a
news conference in New Delhi.


The statement marked India's first official reaction to Monday's
bombing of a Sri Lankan military airbase by guerrillas of the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) using at least one light
aircraft.


Menon's comments coincided with statements by Sri Lanka's
military that it had captured a key LTTE stronghold in the
island's embattled east following the surprise air strike, next
to Colombo international airport, which killed three people.


He said the 35-year-old conflict would figure in next week's
summit of the South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation
(SAARC) which for the first time will be attended by observers
from China, Japan, South Korea and the United States.


"Sri Lanka told us they intend to raise this (the fighting),"
Menon said, referring to planned discussions on terrorism and
regional conflicts at the two- day summit slated to start in New
Delhi next Tuesday.


The Indian foreign secretary said India also planned to seek
support for its calls for an end to the fighting between
government forces and the LTTE, regarded as the world's deadliest
guerrilla outfit.


"We will join our voice with those in Sri Lanka and in the world
who want this violence to come to an end," Menon said.


"We also hope to use our conversation to encourage Sri Lanka to
find a solution to this tragic conflict," the Indian official
said.


The Tigers and Sri Lankan forces have been locked in a new wave
of fighting since December 2005 that has claimed over 4,000
lives. More than 60,000 people have died in the conflict since
1972.


Menon said terrorism was also on the agenda of the summit and
added that nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan would hold
bilateral talks on the sidelines on such issues as cross-border
militancy in Kashmir.


"We must stop terrorism and we must do it together as terrorism
affects us all," said Menon, who accused Pakistan of not doing
enough to stop the flow of Islamic guerrillas into the Indian
zone of insurgency-racked Kashmir.


"Cross-border terrorism continues -- sometimes less and sometimes
more," the country's chief diplomat said.


SAARC is made up of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
Nepal, Pakistan Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Afghanistan is the
latest entrant to SAARC which was set up in 1982 to bolster
regional cooperation.


Menon said the meeting would consider a request by Iran to be
granted  observer status at SAARC.


"We have not taken a position as we are in the chair of the
summit but we like the idea (Iran's proposal)," he said.


The request by Iran comes as tensions between Tehran and the West
are running high over its refusal to halt nuclear enrichment
despite new sanctions imposed by UN last weekend.

