

Michael Phelps, Laure Manaudou and Leila Vaziri obliterated world
records here Wednesday on another sensational night of swimming
but Grant Hackett's reign as king of the 800m freestyle ended.


Phelps, 21, carved a huge 1.71 seconds off his own 200m butterfly
world record to set a new mark of one minute 52.09 seconds and
leave China's top swimmer Wu Peng (1:55.13) and Russia's Nikolay
Skvortsov (1:55.22) in his wake.


But there was disappointment for the once invincible Hackett who
faded badly to finish seventh behind Tunisian winner Oussama
Mellouli (7:46.95) in an event he was defending and in which he
holds the world record.


Hackett was sluggish and never in the race with only the 1500m,
where he is unbeaten in a decade, now left to salvage his meet.


"If I had more fuel in the tank I would have stepped it up a few
places," said the Australian, who is the most decorated swimmer
in world championship history.


"It's extremely disappointing when you've swum almost 20 seconds
faster than that."


Poland's Przemyslaw Stanczyk took the 800m silver while
Australia's Craig Stevens grabbed the bronze.


Phelps' phenomenal success made him the only swimmer to win a
200m butterfly world title three times and keeps him on track for
eight gold medals here as he gears up to challenge Mark Spitz's
seven Olympic titles in Beijing next year.


"I surprised myself, I went so fast," said the American. "I
wanted to go 1:52.00 but I didn't expect to swim 1:52.00.


"I'm showing I'm in solid shape now. I had a really good swim
earlier in the season where I broke the world record.


"I wanted to take it out tonight, so I'm pretty happy."


He has now set two world records at the meet after his stunning
win over Pieter van den Hoogenband in Tuesday's 200m freestyle
final and returned later Wednesday to qualify fastest in the 200m
individual medley semi-finals.


Manaudou, 20, was equally impressive, leading from the gun to win
her second gold medal of the championships in a new world record
time of 1:55.52.


Annika Lurz of Germany fought her to the wall to take silver in
1:55.68 while Italy's Federica Pellegrini, who set a new world
mark in the semi-finals on Tuesday, grabbed the bronze in
1:56.97.


Manaudou dropped out of the 50m backstroke semi-finals Wednesday
to focus on the 200m and it paid rich dividends.


"I didn't expect to set another world record but Pellegrini is a
great swimmer and she will get it again next time," Manaudou
said.


"The 400m freestyle is my race. There is stress for me to perform
and I put pressure on myself. I just performed exceptionally
well."


Despite seeing her record snatched away Pellegrini was content.


"I just wanted to improve on yesterday which was a perfect race
and you can't improve on a perfect race," Pellegrini said.
"There's still time for me to do it again."


Mellouli, who won Tunisia's first ever championship gold, said it
was all the better for being achieved in Australia, but he had
sympathy for Hackett.


"It's that much better making it happen here in Australia,
because the country is so in love with swimming," he said.


"I don't think it was Grant's day, but he is a tremendous
athlete. Hopefully he'll make a comeback next year."


Vaziri unexpectedly set a new world record in the women's 50m
backstroke, touching in 28.16 during a lightning semi-final swim
to qualify for the final fastest, shaving 0.03 off the time set
by Germany's Janine Pietsch in 2005.


In the night's other final, Ukraine's Oleg Lisogor won the men's
50m breaststroke gold medal ahead of US star Brendan Hansen and
South Africa's Cameron van der Burgh, but his 27.66 seconds was
outside world record time.

