

Turkish diplomats could meet the 15 British soldiers detained by
Iran, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday,
the Anatolia news agency reported.


Erdogan was speaking to reporters after meeting Iranian Foreign
Minister Manouchehr Mottaki on the sidelines of an Arab League
summit in Riyadh.


He said to "expect a positive development at any moment" in the
crisis between the two countries, Anatolia said.


Asked if there was a possibility Turkish diplomats could meet the
captives, Erdogan replied: "There is."


The British Foreign Office could not confirm whether such a
meeting might take place and said the claim should be treated
with "caution."


"For the moment, the point is that we want access to them," a
Foreign Office spokesman said.


Erdogan's meeting with Mottaki came after Turkish leaders
promised, in talks with British Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett Tuesday in Ankara, to help in efforts to end the mounting
row between London and Tehran.


With Britain denied consular access to the captives, Beckett told
her Turkish counterpart Abdullah Gul that London would welcome
efforts by diplomats from third countries to see the servicemen
and Gul said he would try to help, Turkish foreign ministry
spokesman Levent Bilman said in Ankara.


"This is not mediation, but an offer of assistance that came up
spontaneously," he said.


Bilman said the foreign ministry was unaware of any scheduled
meeting between Turkish diplomats and the British servicemen.


Britain was set to offer evidence Wednesday that its sailors and
marines being held by Iran were wrongly seized in Iraqi waters,
reports said, raising the stakes in the mounting stand-off with
Tehran.


After years of animosity, Turkey has notably improved relations
with its eastern neighbour Iran in recent years.


The turmoil in Iraq, which neighbours both countries, has brought
them closer and Ankara has lobbied Tehran for a peaceful
resolution of its row with the West over its nuclear programme.

