

The World Health Organisation said Wednesday that six developing
countries would receive financial grants to produce flu vaccine
locally and bolster global protection against a threatened
pandemic.


They include three of the countries that have suffered the most
from outbreaks of the virulent H5N1 strain of bird flu --
Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam -- as well as Brazil, India and
Mexico.


Each will receive 2.5 million dollars immediately to begin the
process of buying the necessary technology, the WHO said in a
statement. The funding is being provided by Japan and the United
States.


"Global public health security can only be realised if developing
countries are assisted in developing the capabilities to access
pandemic vaccines and assist their populations," said David
Heymann, the WHO's assistant director general for communicable
diseases.


The announcement came as experts met at the WHO to discuss
vaccine supplies and manufacturing capacity in poor countries,
which are regarded as potentially weak links in preparations
against a pandemic.


"This is the first time in history that we have been warned, in
advance, that a pandemic might be imminent," WHO Director General
Margaret Chan told the meeting.


Flu vaccine production in developing countries provides a twofold
benefit, helping countries to protect the elderly or vulnerable
against seasonal influenza, and providing the manufacturing
capacity that can swiftly be switched to a pandemic vaccine when
necessary.


Despite the immediate funding, it will still take the six
countries at least three to five years before they can begin
producing vaccines, according to the WHO.


Chan underlined that during a pandemic protective measures would
be in short supply and most wealthier countries would initially
fend for themselves.


"I believe that developing countries are right to ask us to
address the issue of more equitable access now. To date,
developing countries have suffered the most from this virus," she
added.


Health experts have estimated that there is a shortage in vaccine
production capacity equivalent to several billion doses.


"The current global influenza manufacturing capacity is far short
of the capacity needed to protect the world's six billion people
in the event of an influenza pandemic," said US Health Secretary
Mike Leavitt.


The deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed at least 172 people
since 2003, mainly in Southeast Asia, according to the UN health
agency.


Scientists fear the virus, which was first reported in humans in
Hong Kong in 1997, could mutate into a more infectious form and
potentially spark a flu pandemic killing millions worldwide.


A global bird flu pandemic could infect one billion people and
kill between two and seven million of them, according to the WHO.
By comparison, about half a million people die every year as a
result of seasonal flu.


The meeting in Geneva -- the second of its kind since one in
Indonesia last month -- brings together representatives of
countries with H5N1 infections, donor nations, vaccine makers and
WHO experts.


Indonesia had stopped sharing bird flu samples from human cases
with the WHO's laboratories earlier this year over concerns that
commercial drug firms would exploit them to develop costly
vaccines that developing nations could ill afford.


It lifted the ban in March after an agreement which ensures that
pharmaceutical companies must obtain permission from a country to
access its virus samples.


Sample sharing is also regarded as essential for public health
laboratories to keep track of the flu virus and to swiftly
identify any possible mutations.

