

Police in China detained four US church leaders and a group of
Chinese Christians after they held a religious gathering in the
remote northwest region of Xinjiang, a rights group said
Wednesday.


The Americans remain in custody after being picked up on Thursday
last week and there are fears that at least six of the Chinese
detained could face extended time in labour camps, the China Aid
Association said in a statement


The Americans, including a senior pastor and an associate pastor
of a US church, met with up to 30 local Christians in Aksu town
after their Thursday meeting, according to the Texas-based group.


Eight of the local house church leaders were released while six
others were served 30-day detention notices and were being
accused of involvement in "evil cult activities," the group said.


Some of the Chinese detainees had been beaten, it said.


China only allows religious worship in state-approved churches,
while independent worship in "home churches" or "underground
churches" is not permitted.


Organisers of such churches are routinely jailed without trial in
labour camps. The six house church leaders facing cult charges
have all been detained previously and could now face time in
labour camps, it added.


"We urge the Xinjiang authorities to abide with both the Chinese
and international laws in respect of religious freedom," said Bob
Fu, head of the aid association, in the statement.


The group said the US embassy in China was "intervening" in the
case.


A US embassy spokeswoman said she was unable to discuss such
cases due to US privacy laws, although she added that the United
States would seek consular access to any Americans detained in
China.


Chinese police and religious officials in Aksu were not
immediately available for comment.


China's western-most Xinjiang region is predominately populated
by ethnic Uighurs, who are Muslim and who have often opposed
Chinese rule, while the Christian population in the region is
largely Han Chinese.

