

South Korean car giant Hyundai Motor launched construction on
Wednesday of its first car plant in Europe in a major new drive
to boost its low sales profile on the continent.


Chung Mong-Koo, the head of Hyundai which is the world's sixth-
biggest car maker, officially launched work on the 1.0-billion-
euro (1.36-billion-dollar) investment in the east of the country.


Subcontractors have already said they will invest another 400
million euros on site or nearby.


"This will strenthen our position as a world class corporation
with production sites across the world," Chung said, adding that
the eventual 300,000 cars produced at the Czech plant will be
destined exclusively for the European market.


Chung had already marked on Tuesday the official launch of a
factory now in operation by sister company Kia a short distance
away over the border in Slovakia.


The two ventures should help Hyundai take on established European
car giants by boosting its presence and image in Europe, where it
is still struggling to win a substantial share of the market and
develop a dealership network, auto sector analysts say.


The company says the new Czech and Slovak plants can give it a
new competitive edge to take on established European producers
and has set a target for boosting its group market share to 5.3
percent by 2010.


Hyundai's European market share currently hovers just under 2.0
percent and Kia's at around 1.5 percent.


Hyundai has flagged up that ambition by announcing it will
produce its mainstream i30 family hatchback at the Nosovice
plant, to be followed up by an an MPV car-van hybrid. "We will be
in competition with all volume car manufacturers, models such as
the Volkswagen Golf, Peugeot 307 and Ford Focus for example,"
Hyundai head of European public relations, Stefan Henrich, told
AFP.


"Nobody expects the European market to grow that much in the next
five to 10 years, so we will have to win market share from our
rivals," he explained. "The decision to develop in Europe is
about price competition and the perception of the company," he
added.


The Czech plant should also produce 300,000 cars a year when full
output is reached in 2011.


Kia is already producing a family car at its factory at Zilina in
Slovakia. Production by the plant is due to reach 150,000
vehicles by December and eventually hit 300,000 cars a year.


With the twin plants, the South Korean giant has recognised that
a European production presence is vital for unlocking a market
where it has struggled to gain credibility and achieve
significant penetration so far, according to Marc- Rene Tonn, an
auto sector analyst with the German-based bank, MM Warburg.


The developing cluster of Czech car producers has encouraged auto
industry subcontractors to flood into the region, facilitating
the arrival of newcomers.


But the downside facing Hyundai is fast accelerating wages in
what is starting to look like an overcrowded sector.


Hyundai's Czech debut has fired up fears from the region's
biggest carmaker, Skoda Auto, part of the Volkswagen Group, and
the Franco-Japanese joint venture, Toyota Peugeot Citroen
Automobile of a local skills shortage with rival producers
driving up wages in their bid to hang onto workers.


The South Korean producer denies it is seeking to poach its
rivals' workforce, arguing that it can recruit in the high
unemployment industrial rustbelt around its new plant, far away
from the other manufacturers' central Czech bases.


"The current unemployment rate in the region is around 12.1
percent which means that there are 82,000 jobless people," the
spokesman for Hyundai's Czech unit said during Wednesday's news
conference.


Although Hyundai's eventual car output will put the Czech
Republic up alongside Italy as a top European auto producer, the
centre-right Czech government is already looking to redirect the
local economy.


It already envisages redrawing its subsidy rules which helped
land the record South Korean investment so that more higher paid,
higher skilled research jobs will be lured in the future.

