

Thousands of Indonesians will be relocated on Sumatra island
after wild elephants repeatedly attacked their villages killing
six people, officials said Wednesday.


The local government will move about 10,000 people living in
Bukit Barisan National Park, a protected habitat for the animals
whose numbers on the island are fast diminishing.


Villagers in the past have co-existed with the elephants in the
363,000 hectare (896,000 acre) park which has been declared a
World Heritage Site.


But new communities were springing up in the park, encroaching on
the animals' habitat and causing a series of violent clashes, an
official at the Lampung provincial forestry office said.


"We need to relocate thousands of people living in the national
park zones to prevent the clashes from recurring," official
Arinal Junaidi said.


Conversation group WWF said the elephants had trampled six people
to death in the park in the past 12 months and destroyed villages
and crops.


Nurchalis Fadli of WWF added that it appeared the same six female
elephants were involved the clashes, although it was unclear why.


"It was not their fault. The incidents have occurred in the
elephants' natural habitat," Fadli told AFP.


He added the relocation of the villagers was a huge task, as they
had built communities and were farming crops.


WWF has also attempting to track the movement of the animals, by
tagging their necks with a device containing a global satellite
positioning system, Fadli said.


Six elephants had been tagged since November, he added.


The WWF has said that elephants in Sumatra, one of two Indonesian
islands where they are found, were dying at an alarming pace with
numbers dropping by 75 percent in just 18 years.


As of 2003, only about 350 to 430 wild elephants remained on the
island in seven provinces, it said. Their natural habitat is
being increasingly taken over by resettlement, plantations and
industrial estates.


About 1,000 Borneo elephants are thought to be on that island.


Donny Gunariadi from Wildlife Conservation Society said training
courses were being run on how to calmly ward off the animals.


"The people need to be trained to handle this matter. To protect
them and to prevent them from killing the elephants," Gunariadi
told AFP.

