

Judges at London's High Court on Wednesday ruled that a Moroccan
man accused of links to an Al-Qaeda cell in Spain and the
September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States has been
unlawfully detained.


Judges Janet Smith and Stephen Irwin agreed with an application
from lawyers for Farid Hilali that his detention under a European
arrest warrant had become arbitrary and unjustified.


Hilali, 36, has been held in prison for the past two-and-a-half
years pending extradition to Spain on suspicion of connections to
a conspiracy there linked to, and supportive of, the "9/11"
attacks.


The judges ruled that his current detention "is unlawful and a
writ of habeas corpus must be issued."


Prosecutors and the Spanish authorities were denied leave to
appeal to England's Court of Appeal, but the former are still
deciding whether to take the case to Britain's de facto supreme
court, the House of Lords.


Hilali will not be freed until the Law Lords have decided whether
or not to hear the case.


The judges also said they would not grant Hilali bail until his
immigration status has been clarified, saying they feared he
might abscond and had a history of using false documents.


Hilali was detained in September 2003 on immigration charges and
identified by Spanish judge Baltasar Garzon as a co-conspirator
in the "9/11" attacks on New York and Washington. He lost a legal
battle to avoid extradition in May 2006.


The Spanish Supreme Court ruled in an appeal by Imad Eddin
Barakat Yarkas, alias Abu Dahdah and the presumed leader of a
Madrid Al-Qaeda cell, meant the warrant backing Hilali's
extradition was now void.


Hilali is alleged to have rung Yarkas in August 2001 and talked
of entering "the field of aviation" and "cutting the bird's
throat" -- an apparent reference to the bald eagle, the national
bird of the United States.


Yarkas was jailed for 27 years in September 2005 for conspiring
with Al-Qaeda and the "9/11" hijackers. But in June 2006, the
Spanish Supreme Court acquitted him of the conspiracy charge and
reduced the jail term to 12 years.


Lawyer Alun Jones, for Hilali, said the Spanish court's rejection
of the phone tap evidence allegedly recording his client's
conversation with Yarkas meant there was no conspiracy.


"Yarkas was the essential link. We now know that Yarkas was
acquitted of involvement with the cell involved in the attacks,"
he said.


"It seems to us that the alleged link between the applicant
(Hilali) and the attacks has been broken."


As a result, Hilali's continued detention violated his right to
liberty under Article 5 of the European Convention on Human
Rights, he added.

