

England football legends on Wednesday mourned the death of
"inspirational" 1966 World Cup winner Alan Ball from a suspected
heart attack at the age of 61.


At 21, Ball was the youngest member of England's only World Cup-
winning team, and his tireless man-of-the-match performance was
instrumental in the 4-2 defeat of West Germany in the final.


His cross set up striker Geoff Hurst's famously controversial
goal that put England 3-2 ahead in extra time.


And it was hat-trick star Hurst who led the glowing tributes for
the former Arsenal and Everton midfielder, saying he and fellow
surviving players from the team were "all totally devastated".


"He was the youngest member of the team and man of the match in
the 1966 World Cup final," said the former West Ham United
hitman.


"Socially he was always a good laugh and the 1966 team mixed a
lot after then."


His midfield partner in 1966 Sir Bobby Charlton said he was
"probably the best player that day".


"If it had not been for his impact the result could have been
totally different.


"He did not appear to have a nerve in his body, and he was an
inspiration to us all.


"Alan was always bright and bubbly in everything he did as a
player. He went about his work with great enthusiasm and gusto
and he always had a smile on his face.


"He was a sensational little player with great touch and great
vision. He had great close control and although he wasn't a fast
player he didn't need to be. He could see things clearly and
always made the right decisions.


"He was the youngest member of our squad and we were all looking
forward to our latest reunion in two weeks. I am very sad and
shocked by the news. Alan will be badly missed."


Alan Mullery, who played for England alongside Ball in the 1970
World Cup in Mexico, said Ball's death was "shocking news".


"He was such a bouncy and lively, young 61-year-old," he told Sky
News television.


"He was the life and soul of everything. He was a loveable bouncy
character, he had a heart of gold. He lived football.


"He loved playing for his country. It is such a shock. At 61, he
was a fit little fellow."


Former England team-mate Jack Charlton added: "Alan was a brave
little fellow. Everybody loved Alan; he was a lovely little lad.


"Every time I met him and spent time with him he was taking the
mickey out of me, he was having a go at me. It was something we
had going since 1966."


Kevin Keegan, who played alongside Ball at Southampton, said: "He
was a great player but I think as a person he was even greater.


"I played with him when he was 38, I'd already been European
Footballer of the Year twice but he could teach me things that I
never even thought about."


Lawrie McMenemy, who twice signed him for Southampton, told the
BBC: "I was very fortunate to manage him. I wanted him badly not
just for his ability but for his enthusiasm. Once his feet
touched the grass he was like a performer on the stage.


"In his early career he was a runner, a scrapper, a fighter, a
workmanlike player. At the end of his career he became the best
one-touch footballer in the game.


"Alan started life as a road sweeper and ended up as the best
lead violinist Southampton ever had."


Ball, who cut a distinctive with his diminutive stature, high-
pitched voice and flame-red hair, is the second member of the
1966 World Cup-winning side to die. Captain Bobby Moore died of
cancer in 1993.


Ball played 72 times for his country between 1965 and 1975,
scoring eight goals and captaining the side six times.


He also forged a career in management, taking charge at
Southampton, Manchester City and Portsmouth.


Prime Minister Tony Blair was said to be "saddened" by Ball's
death, having "hugely admired him".


British Sports Minister Richard Caborn added: "Alan Ball was a
true hero and character of the game and he will be sadly missed.


"Everyone who knew him or just saw him play will never forget his
enthusiasm and commitment for life and for football.


"His performances and success for Everton, Arsenal, Southampton
and, of course, England will be long remembered.


"There is no doubt he is up there with the truly great names who
played the game."

