

At least 100 North Korean refugees in Thailand are on a hunger
strike over delays in their resettlement, the UN and aid groups
said Wednesday, underlining the plight of people fleeing their
impoverished homeland.


The refugees refusing food are part of a group that was supposed
to leave several days ago for South Korea, an official with the
UN High Commissioner for Refugees said.


"They are on a hunger strike to protest the delay of their
departure from Thailand," UNHCR's deputy regional representative
Giuseppe de Vincentis said.


"The Thai government did not sign the approval for their
departure," he said. "We are trying to get clarification from the
Thai government."


The group has been held for up to three months at a detention
centre in Bangkok, where they face harsh living conditions,
activists in Seoul said.


"They are angry at extended delays in bringing them to the
South," Lee Ho-Taeg, from the International Campaign to Block the
Repatriation of North Korean Refugees, told AFP in Seoul.


He said the number of refugees on hunger strike since late
Tuesday was nearer 400 than the 100 counted by the UNHCR.


"About 300 women are held in the facility, which is barely enough
for 100 people. There is only one toilet and more than 300 women
have to share it," he said.


Thai officials declined to comment on the case.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon confirmed the hunger
strike without giving a number, and said Seoul had been in
negotiations with Bangkok to "resolve the issue smoothly."


Tens of thousands of North Koreans, fleeing hunger or repression
in the hardline communist state, have travelled across the border
to China in recent years.


China has an agreement with its ally North Korea to repatriate
them as economic migrants, a policy strongly criticised by
refugee aid groups. The refugees often travel on to third
countries in hopes of winning eventual resettlement in South
Korea.


Thailand is an increasingly popular destination for the refugees,
with the number of North Koreans arrested for illegal entry
soaring to 400 in 2006 from 50 the year before.


But South Korean diplomats in the past have been accused by
refugee groups of being unhelpful to the refugees, in order to
avoid provoking Pyongyang.


Many are helped by rights organisations linked with Protestant
churches in South Korea.


Lee said that in a separate case, three teenage defectors
detained in Laos, who had feared possible repatriation to their
homeland and harsh punishment, have been transferred to the South
Korean embassy in the Lao capital Vientiane.


They have been identified as Choi Hyang, 13, and her 12-year-old
brother Choi Hyok, who lost their mother in 1999 and came to
China in 2002.


The third one is 17-year-old Choi Hyang-Mi, who arrived in China
in 2001 with her mother but was parted from her after the mother
married a Chinese man, Lee's group said.


The children were taken early Wednesday to Bangkok, where they
were expected to connect to a flight to Seoul, said Hiroshi Kato
of the Japan-based nonprofit group Life Funds for North Korean
Refugees.


"The children have said they wanted to go to the United States,
but we don't know if their wishes will come true," Kato said.


The number of northerners who had made it to South Korea since
the end of the 1950-53 Korean war topped the 10,000 mark in
February.


Estimates of the number hiding out in northeast China range from
tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.


Human Rights Watch last month said North Korea has toughened its
punishments for people caught trying to flee -- including longer
prison terms during which they face beatings and starvation.

