

Journalists staged a solidarity rally on Wednesday for BBC
journalist Alan Johnston, kidnapped more than a six weeks ago and
with still no clear indication of his fate.


The demonstration was organised by Israel's Foreign Press
Association at the main border crossing between Israel and the
Gaza Strip.


Gathering on both sides of the checkpoint, dozens of foreign
correspondents and Palestinian journalists attended the latest in
a series of international demonstrations in support for the
British journalist.


Carrying photographs of the 44-year-old Johnston, journalists
called for his release more than six weeks after he was snatched
at gunpoint while driving home from work in Gaza City on March
12.


"Alan is the only foreign correspndent living full time in the
Gaza Strip. In doing so for three years he showed his personal
commitment and that of the BBC to report the story of Gaza and
its people in a fair and balanced way," Simon McGregor-Wood, the
chairman of the FPA, told the gathering.


"With this kidnapping that reporting has stopped.


"We demand Alan's immediate release and we urge all those who
have anything to do with solving this terrible situation to
redouble their efforts to ensure Alan's return to his family,
colleagues and friends," he added.


Britain's National Union of Journalists is to hold a similar
vigil later on Wednesday outside the Palestinian General
Delegation office in west London.


On Tuesday, Palestinian deputy prime minister Azzam al-Ahmed said
his office had information indicating that Johnston was in good
health.


On April 15, a little-known Islamist group claimed to have killed
him, but Palestinian authorities have said there was no proof of
the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy
War and Unity).


His ordeal has sparked international protests, with solidarity
rallies held in Brussels, Lebanon and throughout Britain.


The BBC says an online petition has now registered more than
50,000 names in support of Johnston, who has been held longer
than any Westerner previously kidnapped in Gaza.

