

A section of the gas pipeline that Russia and Germany want to
build on the floor of the Baltic Sea would go through a Polish
economic zone and be subject to Polish law, Economy Minister
Piotr Wozniak said Wednesday.


"We have informed the German-Russian consortium which is building
the pipeline that the proposed path of the pipeline goes through
the Polish exclusive economic zone," Wozniak told reporters.


Wozniak wrote in a letter last month to the managing director of
the Nord Stream consortium, Matthias Warnig, that "it appears
that an outline of a gas pipeline has been situated across the
Polish exclusive economic zone (EEZ)."


"Any investment activities in the Polish EEZ are subordinated
both to international laws and national laws and regulations of
the Republic of Poland," the letter said.


An EEZ is a maritime zone lying just outside a country's
territorial waters, and in which the coastal state has special
rights to conduct exploration and use marine resources.


Wozniak said Monday that Nord Stream had sent Poland "a document
of very poor quality" outlining the path the proposed pipeline
would follow.


The document showed that the pipeline would cross the Polish EEZ,
which lies between Poland's Baltic coast and the island of
Bornholm, for around 120 kilometres (74 miles) of its total path
of 1,200 kilometres.


Both Poland and Denmark have staked claim to Bornholm in a 30
-year-old territorial dispute, meaning that "dual jurisdiction is
applicable in this zone," said Wozniak.


"If just one procedure or rule is not respected, the project will
not be taken to a successful conclusion," Wozniak said.


In a reply to Wozniak's letter, Warnig wrote on April 12: "Up to
now, we were convinced that our described routing does not cross
the Polish EEZ, and this was confirmed by different
internationally acknowledged studies."


Warnig promised in the letter that Nord Stream "immediately start
comprehensive examination of the information you provided."


The pipeline, due to be built under an agreement between Russian
energy giant Gazprom and German companies BASF and E.ON with
their countries' backing, is scheduled to come onstream in 2010.


Poland and its Baltic neighbours are opposed to the pipeline,
which would deprive them of transit fees. They also say it would
pose an environmental and energy security threat.

