

Cambodian police on Wednesday were seeking to arrest dozens of
people following a violent clash that occurred when authorities
tried to evict hundreds of squatters from a disputed piece of
land.


Police in the southern port city of Sihanoukville where the
incident occurred said they were looking for "ringleaders" who
incited other villagers to riot during last Friday's evictions.


"We won't arrest the innocent villagers, we will arrest only
those troublemakers," said district police chief Mann Tour.


"Our goal is to find the ringleaders who used sticks, axes,
cleavers, gasoline and acid against authorities," he told AFP.


Some 150 armed police squared off with villagers, who before the
raid had fortified their seaside hamlet with barricades and
electrified rolls of barbed wire, rights workers said.


Rights groups have condemned the evictions and are demanding the
release of 13 people arrested following the melee, during which
at least two police officers and several villagers were hurt.


In a statement released Wednesday, the Cambodian rights watchdogs
Licadho and Adhoc said many of the families had lived on the
disputed land for long enough to be able to legally claim
ownership.


The groups accuse police of burning down or demolishing more than
100 homes -- a charge denied by the authorities.


The incident is one of a growing number of violent outbreaks
surrounding land seizures in Cambodia, and highlights the need
for the government to address property ownership issues.


Rampant corruption and a lack of credible land records -- most of
which were destroyed by the Khmer Rouge in the late 1970s -- have
made land disputes increasingly common.


The United Nations has warned that the loss of the land could
lead to significant unrest, and Prime Minister Hun Sen spoke last
year of a "farmers' revolution" if the government did not stop
land grabs.


"It is time for the Cambodian authorities to make a radical shift
in their approach to land disputes," said Licadho director Naly
Pilorge.


"A failure to open honest dialogue with the people, and to find
fair solutions for them, will only worsen the situation and lead
to broader civil unrest," she added.


Most of the male villagers fear arrest and have fled, said Adhoc
rights monitor Chan Saveth, who acknowledged that they had
attacked police but said that they were "protecting their
livelihoods."

