

The planning of Boris Yeltsin's funeral on Wednesday was an
affair of state carefully scripted by the Kremlin with a keen eye
on how to reconcile Russia's turbulent past with present
political aims.


From the day he took office seven years ago, President Vladimir
Putin -- Yeltsin's hand-picked successor -- has wrestled with the
dilemma of how to pay due official respect to his predecessor
while simultaneously repudiating and undoing much of what he did,
political experts said.


The Putin Kremlin has steadily held up the excesses of the
Yeltsin years as examples of what they intended to correct --
from mass privatization of state assets that created a handful of
billionaire insiders overnight, to foolish public antics by
Yeltsin that made a mockery of the presidency.


But while Putin has won solid support among Russians by reversing
what the Kremlin calls the "aberrations" that took root in post-
Soviet Russia on Yeltsin's watch, he has done so without ever
denigrating his predecessor whom many Russians blame directly for
the country's post-Soviet woes.


"Yes, Putin did undo a lot of what Yelstin did," said Pavel
Felgenhauer, a respected independent political commentator.


"But he did it using the Yelstin constitution. You have to
remember that Putin is part and parcel of the Yeltsin regime
despite rejecting many of its policies."


Felgenhauer said Putin had every political interest in honoring
his predecessor as the chief creator of a system of government --
including an exceptionally strong office of the presidency --
that he has used for maximum political benefit.


"Of course there is a contradiction in praising the man and
repudiating his actions," he said. "But Putin's politics are all
contradiction. He speaks of democracy yet is obviously building
something very different."


Other political experts agreed, saying that Yeltsin represents
for most Russians a dichotomy between the mass euphoria that
accompanied the demise of communism and the widespread suffering
that came with the social chaos that Putin still struggles to
contain.


"This is a unique situation for Russia," said Rose Gottemoeller,
director of the Carnegie Moscow Center political think tank.


"Under Yeltsin, things happened that left many Russians behind...
there was a great sense of unfairness," Gottemoeller said.


Putin has managed to take credit for redressing some of those
disparities, she said, adding that the Kremlin determined long
ago that Yeltsin himself would not carry the blame.


"I do think the decision was made in the Kremlin some time ago to
treat Yeltsin with respect, to treat him as the first president
of the Russian Federation. They are entirely trying to lift him
up out of the mire of the 1990s and kind of bless him almost as a
positive historical figure."


Gottemoeller said there was a strong element of political and
diplomatic calculation in Kremlin decisions on how to handle the
passing of a former leader still regarded by many in the West as
a hero despite being disliked by many Russians.


"One of the main strategic goals of the Putin presidency is to
show that Russia is back on the world stage, and this was an
opportunity for them to show off in this way," she said.


"World leaders came to town and it was an opportunity to show
that Russia is a civilised country that can really honor its dead
leaders in a civilized way."

