

Japan launched a study Wednesday on how it can fight for allies
without breaching its pacifist constitution, a move that could
boost the country's global role and alliance with the United
States.


The government has appointed an advisory panel of former
officials and academics led by ex-ambassador to Washington Shunji
Yanai.


The move came the day before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe makes his
first visit to the United States since taking office.


The panel will hold its first meeting on May 18 and aim to draw
up a report to Abe before the end of the year, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a news conference.


One theoretical case the panel will reportedly consider is
whether Japan has the right to destroy a ballistic missile fired
by North Korea at the United States.


The Japanese constitution, imposed by US occupiers 60 years ago,
says the nation forever renounces the use of force to resolve
international disputes.


Successive governments have retained the right to self-defence
only in the strictest sense without partaking in the so-called
"collective defence" of allies.


A 2000 report, written by Richard Armitage and other US foreign
policy experts, labelled the ban a "constraint" and called for it
to be lifted.


Armitage, who served as deputy secretary of state under President
George W. Bush from 2001 to 2005, met Abe on Wednesday and
discussed the panel.


The launch of the study is the latest military reform effort by
Abe, who has vowed to create a more assertive nation proud of its
history and to rewrite the US-imposed 1947 constitution.


But his changes, which have already included creating a full-
fledged defence ministry, have been controversial at home and in
Asian countries haunted by Japan's past militarism.


Armitage, now employed in the private sector, told reporters that
the decision to study the issue "allows more flexibility from
Japan and we think this is a good thing."


The United States stations more than 40,000 troops in Japan and
is obliged by treaty to protect the country from enemy attack.

