

The nostalgia hung thick as the incense at the funeral of Boris
Yeltsin in Moscow's main cathedral on Wednesday as Russians
remembered a leader who gave them hope after Soviet oppression.


"We wanted liberation and he was the incarnation of that," said
Marina Chudnovskaya, 66, a retired accountant, who took part in
anti-Soviet demonstrations led by Yeltsin in 1991.


In her hand, she clutched the same Yeltsin flag that she waved on
the historic day in August 1991 when she saw the then Russian
president climb onto a tank and rally a crowd of protesters to
defy a Soviet military coup.


"I thought about freedom, about victory. I was ecstatic!" she
said.


Chudnovskaya was one of thousands of mostly middle-aged and
elderly mourners bidding their final farewell at Yeltsin's open
coffin in the golden-domed Christ the Saviour cathedral in
central Moscow.


Many expressed nostalgia for the heady democratic idealism of
1991 and some compared Yeltsin favourably to his successor
President Vladimir Putin, who has been accused by critics of
rolling back freedoms in Russia.


"Yeltsin freed me from the Communist disease. He gave me back my
property. Everything's become more grey now," said doctor Nikolai
Churyumo, 57, clutching a bunch of red carnations in the queue
outside the cathedral.


Inside the church, four guards of honour stood by Yeltsin's
coffin, which was draped in a religious shawl and Russia's flag,
as Orthodox priests chanted and wafted clouds of incense.


Many key figures from Yeltsin's years in office between 1991 and
1999, most of them now out of the public eye, came to offer
condolences to Naina, Yeltsin's widow, who sat weeping by the
coffin.


Yegor Gaidar, Yeltsin's economy minister and the architect of
radical market reforms in Russia, paused in deep reflection,
tears streaming down his cheeks.


Many Russians resent Yeltsin for implementing reforms that
impoverished millions and for launching a disastrous war against
separatists in Chechnya. But, at his funeral, the memory was of
Yeltsin the democratic hero.


"He went against the system and he was honest. He had a good
Russian soul," said Svetlana Novoseltsova, 53, the director of a
non-governmental organisation from Yeltsin's home region of
Sverdlovsk in the Ural mountains.


Churyumo said that the memory of Yeltsin's democratic ideals
should be kept alive to ensure that the clock is not turned back.
"We're going away from Yeltsin's course now. People have
forgotten what he achieved."


Nikita Belykh, head of the Union of Rightist Forces liberal
opposition party, echoed that view in comments to reporters after
paying his respects in the marble-lined cathedral.


"There is a movement away from Yeltsin's course of democracy,"
Belykh said.


For Lyubov Martenyanova, 58, a retired professor from the city of
Saratov, the memory of the Yeltsin years was more personal.


After paying her last respects to Yeltsin before his burial, she
quoted Russian poet Nikolai Nekrasov, saying: "It was my era, and
now it's over."

