

The fate of Siemens chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld hung in the
balance Wednesday as the supervisory board at the scandal-hit
engineering company convened, with analysts predicting he could
be forced to step down.


Although Kleinfeld, 49, has not been personally implicated in a
spiralling slush fund affair at the company, observers said he
might have to pay the price for the scandal at one of Germany's
industrial jewels.


Kleinfeld's contract runs out September 30 and has yet to be
extended.


The company, Europe's largest engineering firm, has confirmed
that a decision would be made on whether to extend or terminate
his tenure at Wednesday's meeting.


Yet Kleinfeld remains popular with many Siemens shareholders, who
have seen stock in the company steadily increase in value.


One shareholders' association said on Wednesday that Siemens
would lose "a competent chief executive" if Kleinfeld were shown
the door.


A positive results trend continued on Tuesday when Siemens posted
better than expected returns for the second quarter of the
2006-2007 fiscal year.


Net earnings rose 36 percent on January-March the preceding year
to 1.26 billion euros, well above the 1.15 billion expected by
analysts.


Siemens' shares rose more than 2.0 percent on Wednesday on the
back of the second quarter results.


The Financial Times Deutschland reported on Tuesday that Siemens
was in talks with a number of "external candidates" to replace
Kleinfeld, with the CEO of Linde, the world's leading maker of
industrial gases, Wolfgang Reitzle, heading its wish list.


Reitzle however has indicated he is not interested in the job,
sector sources said.


Siemens former chief executive and the current head of the
supervisory board, Heinrich von Pierer, was to formally step down
on Wednesday.


Von Pierer has said he hoped his own departure would help the
company pull itself out of the growing mire of corruption
allegations.


He is to be replaced by Gerhard Cromme, the one-time head of
steel and heavy industry giant ThyssenKrupp, which has a
reputation as a bastion of boardroom ethics and corporate
governance.


The scandal at Siemens deepened in late March when a board
member, Johannes Feldmayer, was arrested and kept in custody as
part of a probe into alleged payments made to a union official.


Prosecutors have also raided Siemens offices in Munich, Erlangen
and Nuremberg.


In a separate case, prosecutors are investigating whether company
managers skimmed off as much as 200 million euros (273 million
dollars).


Kleinfeld has even brought in private investigators in an attempt
to clean up the company.


Siemens, which employs more than 450,000 people worldwide, builds
trains, power plants and manufactures medical and
telecommunications equipment.

