

England football legends on Wednesday mourned the death of
"inspirational" 1966 World Cup winner Alan Ball from a heart
attack at the age of 61.


At 21, Ball was the youngest member of England's only World Cup-
winning team, and his tireless performance in the 4-2 defeat of
West Germany in the final won him the man-of-the-match award.


His cross set up striker Geoff Hurst's famously controversial
goal that put England 3-2 ahead in extra time.


And it was hat-trick star Hurst who led the glowing tributes for
the former Arsenal and Everton midfielder, saying he and fellow
surviving players from the team were "all totally devastated".


"He was the youngest member of the team and man of the match in
the 1966 World Cup final," said the former West Ham United
hitman.


"Socially he was always a good laugh and the 1966 team mixed a
lot after then."


His midfield partner in 1966 Sir Bobby Charlton said he was
"probably the best player that day".


"If it had not been for his impact the result could have been
totally different.


"He did not appear to have a nerve in his body, and he was an
inspiration to us all.


"Alan was always bright and bubbly in everything he did as a
player. He went about his work with great enthusiasm and gusto
and he always had a smile on his face.


"He was a sensational little player with great touch and great
vision. He had great close control and although he wasn't a fast
player he didn't need to be. He could see things clearly and
always made the right decisions.


"He was the youngest member of our squad and we were all looking
forward to our latest reunion in two weeks. I am very sad and
shocked by the news. Alan will be badly missed."


Alan Mullery, who played for England alongside Ball in the 1970
World Cup in Mexico, said Ball's death was "shocking news".


"He was such a bouncy and lively, young 61-year-old," he told Sky
News television.


"He was the life and soul of everything. He was a loveable bouncy
character, he had a heart of gold. He lived football.


"He loved playing for his country. It is such a shock. At 61, he
was a fit little fellow."


Former England team-mate Jack Charlton added: "Alan was a brave
little fellow. Everybody loved Alan; he was a lovely little lad.


"Every time I met him and spent time with him he was taking the
mickey out of me, he was having a go at me. It was something we
had going since 1966."


Kevin Keegan, who played alongside Ball at Southampton, said: "He
was a great player but I think as a person he was even greater.


"I played with him when he was 38, I'd already been European
Footballer of the Year twice but he could teach me things that I
never even thought about."


Ball, who cut a distinctive with his diminutive stature, high-
pitched voice and flame-red hair, is the second member of the
1966 World Cup-winning side to die. Captain Bobby Moore died of
cancer in 1993.


Ball played 72 times for his country between 1965 and 1975,
scoring eight goals and captaining the side six times.


He also forged a career in management, taking charge at
Southampton, Manchester City and Portsmouth.

