

Indonesian environmentalists said Wednesday they will lodge
complaints of bias against judges who cleared US mining giant
Newmont this week of dumping tonnes of toxic waste.


Chalid Muhammad, of the Friends of the Earth (Walhi), accused the
five judges of siding with Newmont during a lengthy trial that
was closely watched by foreign investors.


"It was obvious that the judges were on Newmont's side. Instead
of using witnesses provided by prosecutors, the judges preferred
to call on witnesses from Newmont," said Muhammad.


The judges found Newmont and one of its executives not guilty
Tuesday of charges of pumping waste into Buyat Bay from its now
defunct gold mine in Sulawesi.


It allegedly sickened villages and poisoned marine life.


The verdict was cheered by foreign investors and Newmont, which
had always denied the charges, saying it disposed of toxins
safely and that levels of mercury and arsenic were within
acceptable levels.


Environmentalists had hoped the verdict would send a signal to
companies operating in Indonesia amid increased environmental
degradation.


They told a press conference in Jakarta that official complaints
would be lodged with a Supreme Court body charged with overseeing
judges' code of conduct and ethics.


"The judges are thought to have violated their code of conduct
and ethics," Muhammad said.


"I am optimistic the body will take action against the judges,"
said environmental legal expert Mas Ahmad Santosa.


He added that the Supreme Court body has the authority to annul a
verdict if it found evidence that judges were not impartial. The
Supreme is Indonesia's highest court.


Head judge Ridwan Damanik told AFP Tuesday he and the other
judges had considered all of the evidence during the 20-month
trial before reaching their verdict.


Meanwhile about 80 villagers, who say they developed illnesses
from the waste, rallied outside the prosecutor's office in North
Sulawesi, ElShinta radio reported.


The lead prosecutor has said he plans to file an appeal against
Tuesday's verdict within 14 days.

