

Global crude prices rose on Wednesday ahead of the traditional
weekly snapshot of US energy inventories, which was forecast to
highlight dwindling American petrol reserves, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
gained 56 cents to 67.72 dollars per barrel in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, added 31 cents to 64.89 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


All eyes later Wednesday will be on the US Department of Energy,
which was due to publish stockpiles data for the week ending
April 20.


"Crude futures were higher this morning ahead of US crude
inventories data later on today, with another fall in gasoline
stocks expected," said Sucden analyst Michael Davies in London.


"Market participants are concerned that even though US refineries
are increasing production, they will not be able to fully satisfy
demand ahead of the busy summer driving season."


London analysts forecast that gasoline or petrol reserves will
have fallen by 500,000 barrels last week. Gasoline stocks have
already shed 13.3 percent since the start of February.


Traders are closely watching supplies owing to strong gasoline
demand ahead of the US peak holiday driving season that begins
next month.


Analysts said that geopolitical concerns over key crude producers
Iran and Nigeria were also driving the market.


Davies added: "In addition to robust demand for oil, uncertainty
over Nigeria's future and controversy surrounding Iran's nuclear
enrichment programme continue to support the market."


Nigeria's powerful Catholic church has added its voice to the
chorus of criticism levelled against the country's flawed and
violence-marred elections, slammed by foreign observers as a step
back for democracy.


The European Union, which like former colonial power Britain and
the United States, is "deeply troubled" by irregularities that
fell short of international voting standards, estimates at least
200 people died in Nigeria's two-stage state, presidential and
parliamentary polls April 14 and 21.


Crude futures had fallen heavily on Tuesday, as traders
consolidated recent gains, despite market nerves over lost
production in Nigeria.


Nigeria's current oil production is down an estimated 25 percent
owing to violence in the oil-rich Niger Delta.

