

Amid an international standoff over its nuclear programme, North
Korea Wednesday put its "invincible" military and missiles on
show in a major parade attended by leader Kim Jong-Il.


Kim waved to the crowd for several minutes during the 90-minute
parade through Pyongyang's Kim Il-Sung Square marking the 75th
anniversary of the Korean People's Army (KPA), official media
said.


Columns of rocket units were part of the procession, which
demonstrated the "invincible might of the KPA equipped with
modern offensive and defensive means," the Korean Central News
Agency said.


It was not immediately clear whether any of its latest missiles
were showcased. The communist state tested ballistic missiles
last July, sparking international alarm and United Nations
sanctions.


A nuclear test last October further heightened tensions. In
February the North agreed to scrap its nuclear programme as part
of a six-nation deal, but the agreement is in limbo amid a row
over financial sanctions.


Soldiers, cadets, security forces and others, preceded by a large
portrait of founding president Kim Il-Sung, marched through the
square, said South Korea's Yonhap news agency, which saw TV
footage of the event.


It said thousands of spectators manoeuvred in the square, which
was decorated with a sea of flowers, to form the names in Korea's
Hangeul script of the current leader and his father Kim Il-Sung,
who died in 1994.


North Korea came into being in 1948 but says its army was founded
by Kim Il-Sung during his independence battle against Japan,
which colonised the Korean peninsula from 1910 to 1945.


The anniversary of the 1.1 million-strong military is marked each
year with political and cultural events, but this was the first
such parade since October 2005.


Kim Jong-Il has built up his power base within the all-powerful
military by pushing a Songun (army-first) policy, which
prioritises the welfare of troops over civilians.


The ruling party newspaper Rodong Sinmun vowed to give priority
to strengthening military power "no matter how hard the people's
livelihood becomes."


"In order to protect sovereignty and independence, it is
necessary to counter the military hegemony of the US imperialists
by force of arms," it said.


The North admits it will be short of one million tons of food
this year.


"We have a mighty war deterrence to safeguard the interests of
the country and the safety of the people," said Rodong Sinmun's
editorial.


It praised Kim Jong-Il for building "an invincible socialist
military power which no formidable enemy dare provoke" and called
for unbending loyalty to him.


Before attending the parade, Kim, accompanied by top military
officials, paid homage to his father whose embalmed body is kept
at the Kumsusan Memorial Palace, KCNA said.


It did not mention the name of Jo Myong-Rok, a 79-year-old vice
marshal, who is reportedly ill.


Jo, one of Kim's close aides, was in critical condition due to
kidney failure, a civic aid group here said last week.


Along with biological and chemical weapons, the North has a huge
stockpile of conventional arms including 820 fighters and
bombers, 310 helicopters, 3,700 tanks, 13,000 field artillery
units, 2,100 armoured vehicles and 60 submarines, according to
South Korea's defence ministry.


It said last December the North had also acquired some 200
artillery pieces which could strike Seoul when sited along the
border, and about 40 percent of its fighter jets were just north
of the frontier -- minutes away from the South's capital.

