

India should cut its military presence in revolt-hit Kashmir and
allow state police to fight the Islamic separatist insurgency, a
leading regional politician said on Wednesday.


The move is "imperative" to end alienation among the Himalayan
state's 10 million population and achieve normalisation of the
region, Mehbooba Mufti, president of the reformist Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP), said.


"I have urged Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to take immediate
steps towards reducing the number of troops," said Mufti in a
statement.


She said she made the request to Singh during a conference of
Kashmiri politicians in New Delhi on Tuesday urging him to cut
troops in a phased manner in the state where rebels have been
fighting New Delhi's rule for 17 years.


Violence has fallen in Kashmir since nuclear-armed India and
Pakistan started a slow-moving peace process in January 2004.
Insurgency-related deaths have gone down from ten per day in 2001
to three in 2007.


"Now the political and civil society institutions must be allowed
to take full charge of consolidating the normalisation process,"
said Mufti, whose party is the junior ruling coalition partner in
Kashmir.


India announced late last month it would set up an expert panel
headed by the defence secretary to "determine whether there is a
need to relocate and reconfigure security forces" in Kashmir.


The promise defused a threat by Mufti's father, Mufti Mohammad
Syed who leads the PDP, to pull his party out from the state
government if some of the estimated half million troops were not
withdrawn from the region.


Indian Kashmir's Chief Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is the
ruling coalition's leader, has opposed cutting troops, saying it
would "directly help" the militants.


Officials say more than 42,000 people have been killed in the
revolt since 1989. Human rights groups estimate the toll at about
70,000 dead or missing.


India withdrew several thousands troops in early 2006 from
Kashmir after violence began falling.


Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf has called for
demilitarisation of the region as a move towards settling the
rivals' six-decade-old  quarrel over the Kashmir.


India's army opposes an early withdrawal of troops, saying the
move could help the rebels who it says operate with Pakistan's
support. Islamabad denies the charge.

