

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates held talks in Germany Wednesday
on US plans for missile defences in two former Warsaw Pact states
and Russian resistance to the scheme, at the end of a European
tour.


Gates flew from Warsaw to brief senior German officials on a US
offer to work closely with Moscow and negotiate limits that would
ensure the shield would not pose a threat to Russia's nuclear
deterrence.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Defence
Minister Franz Josef Jung were meeting with Gates during his
brief stopover in Berlin.


Jung said in an interview with the daily Saechsische Zeitung
published Wednesday that he was confident the United States could
alleviate Russia's concerns.


Russia can be convinced of the necessity of the missile defence
system "by explaining to them that there is a shared interest in
security against missiles -- for example from rogue states," Jung
said.


He added that the United States had made Russia "a very far-
reaching offer to compromise in building a limited missile shield
for Europe" and that further talks between Russian and US defence
experts were now needed.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel has urged Washington to engage
Russia on its concerns about US plans to deploy 10 interceptor
missiles in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic by 2012.


The four-billion-dollar project is aimed at countering a
potential missile threat from Iran, not Russia.


But it has antagonized Moscow, which sees it as a further
military encroachment in its former sphere of influence, and has
aroused misgivings among some European allies.


On Tuesday in Warsaw, Gates said he did not believe that Russia
was a military threat to Poland "either now or should we install
a missile defence."


"The world changes in dramatic ways, and what we are talking
about here is indivisible security for the United States and for
our NATO allies," he said.


"We would like to extend that umbrella to Russia and partner with
Russia and have Russia be with us in this program," he said.


Poland's conservative government, led by the president's twin
brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, has signaled its
willingness to host the base, but formal negotiations between
Washington and Warsaw have not yet begun.


Polish Defence Minister Alexander Sczyglo, who joined Gates in a
news conference, said Warsaw was prepared to host the missile
defence site if it enhances Poland's security.


"The conditions of success in this negotiation is only one. These
negotiations can be successful if the level of balanced security
is thus increased," Sczyglo said, speaking through an
interpreter.


Gates, who started the trip Monday in Moscow, has invited the
Russians to inspect a US missile defence interceptor site in Fort
Greely, Alaska and a radar in California to clear up what he said
was Russian misunderstanding about the capability of the system
being proposed for Europe.


"In terms of assurances that the system would not be changed
years from now in a way that might be more threatening to the
Russian deterrent, it seems to me that is a matter that can be
negotiated," he said.


Gates provided no details and it was unclear whether the scope of
such negotiations would involve the broader US missile defence
system, or only the proposed European component.

