

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates winds up a European trip
Wednesday with talks in Germany on his efforts to ease Russian
opposition to US plans for missile defences in two former Warsaw
Pact states.


Gates flew from Warsaw to brief senior German officials on a US
offer to cooperate closely with Moscow on missile defence and
negotiate limits that would ensure future developments do not
pose a threat to Russia's nuclear deterrence.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Defence
Minister Franz Josef Jung were scheduled to meet with Gates
during a brief stopover in Berlin.


Germany has urged Washington to engage Russia on its concerns
about US plans to deploy 10 interceptor missiles in Poland and a
radar in the Czech Republic by 2012.


The four billion dollar project is aimed at countering a
potential missile threat from Iran, not Russia.


But it has antagonized Moscow, which sees it as a further
military encroachment in its former sphere of influence, and has
aroused misgivings among some European allies.


On Tuesday in Warsaw, Gates said he did not believe that Russia
was a military threat to Poland "either now or should we install
a missile defence."


"The world changes in dramatic ways, and what we are talking
about here is indivisible security for the United States and for
our NATO allies," he said.


"We would like to extend that umbrella to Russia and partner with
Russia and have Russia be with us in this program," he said.


Poland's conservative government, led by the president's twin
brother, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, has signaled its
willingness to host the base, but formal negotiations between
Washington and Warsaw have not yet begun.


Polish Defence Minister Alexander Sczyglo, who joined Gates in a
news conference after they held talks here, said Warsaw was
prepared to host the missile defence site if it enhances Poland's
security.


"The conditions of success in this negotiation is only one. These
negotiations can be successful if the level of balanced security
is thus increased," Sczyglo said, speaking through an
interpreter.


Gates has invited the Russians to inspect a US missile defence
interceptor site in Fort Greely, Alaska and a radar in California
to clear up what he said was Russian misunderstanding about the
capability of the system being proposed for Europe.


"In terms of assurances that the system would not be changed
years from now in a way that might be more threatening to the
Russian deterrent, it seems to me that is a matter that can be
negotiated," he said.


Gates provided no details and it was unclear whether the scope of
such negotiations would involve the broader US missile defence
system, or only the proposed European component.

