

The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq on Wednesday
criticised Baghdad for concealing the casualty figures from its
sectarian war and alleged that many detainees have "disappeared."


While placing the blame for the majority of violent civilian
deaths on the insurgents and illegal militias fighting in Iraq,
UNAMI expressed concern about the human rights record of Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government.


In its quarterly report on the human rights situation, the UN
agency said the Iraqi government had stopped providing casualty
figures and denied that its previous reports had exaggerated the
death toll in the conflict.


In a report on January 16, UNAMI said more than 34,400 people had
died in the daily acts of violence across the country in 2006.


"The Prime Minister's office told UNAMI that the mortality
figures contained in the report were exaggerated, although they
were in fact figures compiled and provided by a government
ministry," UNAMI said on Wednesday.


"It was a matter a regret that the Iraqi government did not
provide UNAMI with access to the ministry of health's overall
mortality figures for the reporting period," the UN agency said:


"UNAMI emphasises again the utmost need for the Iraqi government
to operate in a transparent manner and does not accept the
government's suggestion that UNAMI used the mortality figures in
an inappropriate fashion."


At a news conference in Baghdad's fortified Green Zone to launch
the latest report, UN human rights officer Ivana Vuco insisted:
"These figures are probably the most carefully screened."


"Unofficially in follow-up meetings we were told that the
government was concerned that people would misconstrue the
figures to portray a grim situation," she said.


While being unable to provide statistics because of the
government's decision, the new report for the first quarter of
2007 said violence remained a serious problem in Iraq, despite a
US and Iraqi security operation.


"In February and March, sectarian violence claimed the lives of
large numbers of civilians, including women and children, in both
Shiiite and Sunni neighbourhoods," the report said.


"While government officials claimed an initial drop in the number
of killings in the latter half of February following the launch
of the Baghdad Security Plan, the number of reported casualties
rose again in March."


Iraqi and US officials claim that the civilian death toll from
Iraq's sectarian war has declined since the launch on February 14
of the Baghdad security plan, but refuse to release exact figures
to prove this.


UNAMI said that "violent deaths were a regular feature of several
other cities in the governorates of Nineveh, Salaheddin, Diyala
and Babel" and not just Baghdad, the centre of the bloodshed.


The Baghdad Security Plan seeks to quell the violence but Vuco
said it also had increased the potential for the abuse of
detainees' human rights.


"The disappearance of detainees still continues," she said. "We
have serious concerns that not all detainees are being
registered. We found people looking for detained family members
who they were unable to locate."


Most of these detainees are held for "prolonged periods of time
without charge in overcrowded conditions," she said.


At least 37,641 people were being held in detention centres
across Iraq as of end of March, UNAMI said, adding of these about
3,000 were detained since the Baghdad crackdown began.


The US-led coalition continued to hold 17,898 people, while the
rest were in the custody of Iraqi authorities.


UNAMI also raised the issue of displaced people within Iraq since
the outbreak of the Sunni-Shiite sectarian violence.


At least 736,422 Iraqis fled their homes amid the sectarian
violence, in addition to the 1.2 million displaced before the
communal bloodletting broke out after the demolition of the
revered shrine in the town of Samarra.


Sunni Al-Qaeda militants bombed the Al-Askari shrine on February
22, 2006, triggering nationwide sectarian bloodshed that
continues to this day.


The report said that, with 120,000 internal refugees, Baghdad has
borne the brunt of the chaos.


"Many of these were displaced from within Baghdad, moving to more
ethnically homogenous and safer areas, while their houses were
either given to or were occupied by other displaced families,"
the report said.


Nearly 87 percent of the displaced people are seeking refuge in
the centre and south of the country, it added.

