

Nigeria's powerful Catholic church and Human Rights Watch have
added their voices to the chorus of criticism levelled against
violence-marred presidential elections.


The US-based rights watchdog on Wednesday highlighted a late
start, a shortage of ballot papers, widespread voter
intimidation, the seizure of ballot boxes by thugs and vote
buying.


"Instead of guaranteeing citizens' basic right to vote freely,
the Nigerian government and electoral officials actively colluded
in the fraud and violence," the group's Africa director Peter
Takirambudde said in a statement.


"In other areas, officials closed their eyes to human rights
abuses committed by supporters of the ruling party and others,"
Takirambudde said.


His remarks echoed thoss of Felix Alaba Job, the head of
Nigeria's Catholic Bishops Conference, which represents some 30
million believers -- or one out of five people in Africa's most
populous nation of 140 million.


Speaking at a news conference Tuesday, Job cited massive fraud
and disorganisation, including result sheets being passed around
to politicians who simply filled in numbers as they chose while
bribed returning electoral officers looked away.


"We have again failed in conducting free, fair and credible
elections," Job said.


The European Union, which like former colonial power Britain and
the United States, was "deeply troubled" by voting
irregularities, estimates at least 200 people died in Nigeria's
two-stage state, presidential and parliamentary polls April 14
and 21.


And even outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, whose handpicked
successor won the presidential poll, has admitted the polls were
far from perfect.


The first move by president-elect Umaru Yar'Adua, the ruling
party candidate who chalked up a landslide win with 24.6 million
votes -- or around 70 percent of counted ballots -- was to plead
for peace in a country with a history of severe violence.


"The contest has come and gone, so must our differences in the
interest of the greater good," said Yar'Adua, who takes the helm
May 29.


"I want all Nigerians to join hands and work hard in moving this
country forward."


Asked to comment on the allegations of massive vote-rigging,
Yar'Adua described Saturday's poll as "one of the best elections
organised in Nigeria."


As fears of trouble helped push oil prices up to a three-week
high on world markets and opposition parties continued to air
their grievances, the Daily Sun headlined its edition "Shock,
Anger".


But one Western diplomat said the harsh talk would die with a
whimper.


"People will forget, and it'll soon be business as usual," he
said.


It was business as usual in Abuja, the capital, and in the
country's blazingly hot and humid commercial centre Lagos. There
was the usual din of horns in traffic-choked streets and hawkers
going about their business in a country where the majority of
people live on less than a dollar a day.


"There was a lot of fraud, yes, but as Christians we believe that
the man God wants to be our leader will be our leader," said
Harrison, a young supermarket assistant in Abuja.


Yar'Adua, the quietly-spoken 55 year-old governor of one of
Nigeria's northern Sharia law states, has a track record of
financial prudence, public service and accountability and is
among the few governors recently absolved of corruption by the
country's anti-graft agency.


He has promised to tackle corruption, a major issue in a country
regularly ranked among the most corrupt by global watchdog
Transparency International.

