

Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, the ruling party's candidate for
the Turkish presidency, sought support for his bid Wednesday amid
opposition threats to boycott the election because of his
Islamist roots.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday named Gul as the
Justice and Development Party's (AKP) official candidate, ending
weeks of speculation over his own reported ambitions for the
post.


The largely ceremonial presidency embodies the secular regime of
this Muslim majority country and many feared the strict
separation of state and religion would be eroded if a former
Islamist like Erdogan got the job.


Although Gul, 56, is a moderate and widely respected figure,
there is still unease because he shares the same Islamist
background as Erdogan and his wife wears the headscarf, largely
seen as a symbol of political Islam.


The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) raised the
first objection when it said it would boycott the election, which
takes place in parliament, and may challenge the vote before the
Constitutional Court.


"Gul is no different than Erdogan, both with respect to his past
and his unconditional support for the government," CHP deputy
chairman Mustafa Ozyurek said in a television debate late
Tuesday.


"We say the president must be committed to secularism in
essence," he added.


The CHP argues that at least 367 legislators, the two-thirds
majority of votes required to elect the president in the first
and second rounds of the elections, should be present in the
assembly for voting to begin.


It says it will ask the Constitutional Court to cancel the poll
if this is not the case in the first round set for Friday.


The argument has been rejected by the AKP, as well as many
jurists, who say that the usual quorum for parliamentary
sessions, 184, will suffice.


The head of the Constitutional Court, Tulay Tugcu, has already
said the court would make a swift decision on the issue if it was
asked to.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections set for November
4 could be brought forward.


The AKP has 353 seats in the 550-seat parliament, not enough to
get Gul elected in the first two rounds of voting next Friday and
on May 2, but more than enough for the third or fourth rounds on
May 9 and May 15, when an absolute majority of 276 suffices.


In a bid to circumvent potential political chaos, Gul on Tuesday
met Erkan Mumcu, head of the centre-right Motherland Party
(ANAP), which has 20 seats in parliament, as well as some
independent lawmakers to enlist their support.


On Wednesday, he held talks with Mehmet Agar, the leader of the
conservative True Path Party (DYP), which holds four seats.


Mumcu and Agar both said they would discuss the issue with their
respective party executives and with each other before reaching a
final decision.


The AKP was born out of a now banned Islamist party that was
ousted from government in 1997 for its increasingly religious
policies. Members say they have disowned their past and are
committed to secularism.


Still, many suspect the party of harbouring a secret Islamist
agenda, citing as evidence the government's unsuccessful attempts
to criminalise adultery and restrict places that serve alcohol to
special zones.


The press on Wednesday gave a mixed reaction to Gul's candidacy,
with some commentators doubting his commitment to secularism.


"Erdogan and Gul are no different than identical twins," the
mass-circulation Hurriyet said. "Despite all the objections, the
headscarf is entering the presidential palace."


"We will support him as long as he remains impartial and stays
true to the secular republic," the liberal Vatan wrote.

