

Shelling and tank fire rattled the Somali capital Wednesday as
fighting between government-backed Ethiopian forces and Islamist
guerrillas entered its second week, with hundreds already killed.


Meanwhile, the UN pleaded for access to bring aid to tens of
thousands of displaced civilians.


Human rights workers monitoring the death toll said Tuesday that
at least 321 people, mostly civilians and insurgents, had been
killed in the latest clashes that come around three weeks after
similar battles claimed at least 1,000 lives.


After a relatively quiet night, residents said Ethiopian tanks
had rumbled through northern Mogadishu Wednesday, firing shells
in a bid to wipe out determined Islamist and clan fighters who
have frustrated the transitional government's efforts to exert
its control.


The insurgents, often shifting their defence positions, responded
with machine- gun fire and mortar shells on the eighth day of
artillery duels.


"Two people were wounded when a mortar hit their houses, but we
could not take them to hospital because stray bullets are flying
all over the place," said Hussein Bashir, a resident of Jamhuriha
area.


Kulow Hassan, a pharmacist in Tawfiq area, said: "We have lost
hope because there is no sign of a truce here. Nobody bothers to
tell the fighters that the battles are useless."


In New York, the United Nations humanitarian chief John Holmes
pressed the Somali government, accused of failing to cooperate
with humanitarian teams, to allow access for aid deliveries to
those displaced by the clashes.


He said aid groups have been blocked from using airstrips outside
Mogadishu and the World Food Programme (WFP) denied clearance to
deliver food to tens of thousands camped under trees in Afgoye,
about 30 kilometers (19 miles) south west of capital.


"I hope that position is now changing," Holmes told reporters at
the United Nations late Tuesday after briefing the UN Security
Council on Somalia.


Holmes said UN officials had secured a pledge from the government
not to block humanitarian operations after a meeting in the
Somali southwestern town of Baidoa on Monday.


"They (the government) have assured us of their full support for
humanitarian access and humanitarian workers, but that remains to
be seen, whether it's translated into practice."


Dozens of rotting corpses remained abandoned on the capital's
streets and in residential areas and Mogadishu doctors appealed
for supplies to help save the wounded.


With no truce in sight, residents continued their exodus out of
the city to join thousands in makeshift camps outside the city.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled the seaside capital since February 1, but elders
told AFP the figure could now be more than 400,000.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the 1991 ouster
of Siad Barre sparked a bloody power struggle that has defied
numerous attempts to return normalcy to the country.

