

The prospect of a veiled first lady Wednesday rekindled a highly
divisive debate in Turkey over the Islamic headscarf, hated by
secularists as a symbol of political Islam and the oppression of
women.


Hayrunisa Gul, the 42-year-old wife of Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul, who was Tuesday named the ruling party's presidential
candidate and is almost certain to win the post next month, has
never been seen bareheaded in public.


With the headscarf banned in government offices, schools and
universities in Turkey, it is hard for secularists to stomach the
idea of a veiled lady at the presidential palace, the highly
symbolic home of Turkey's much-revered secularist founder and
first president, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.


"A first lady that sued her state," headlined the mass-selling
Hurriyet newspaper, recalling a complaint that Hayrunisa Gul
filed with the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in 2002
after Ankara University refused to enroll her because of her
headscarf.


She withdrew her complaint after the Islamist-rooted Justice and
Development Party (AKP) came to power and her husband became a
government minister.


"We are expected to endorse at the summit of the state a woman
who wears the symbol of Islamist militancy. This is out of the
question," journalist Tuncay Ozkan said on Kanalturk television.


Gul's election as president would make the cheerful, low-profile
Hayrunisa the hostess of a palace from which she has been barred
for the past seven years.


Despite protests that he was going too far, outgoing President
Ahmet Necdet Sezer refused to invite veiled women to receptions
at the presidential palace, thus snubbing most AKP wives,
including Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's spouse, Emine.


The Guls' daughter Kubra, 21, also wears the headscarf.


Unlike Erdogan's two daughters, who studied in the United States
to escape the ban, she goes to university in Turkey -- but only
by wearing a wig over her headscarf, a make-over widely adopted
by young women committed equally to their education and religious
convictions.


Wary of the army-backed secularist establishment, the AKP has
failed to keep electoral promises to abolish the headscarf ban,
but has continued to publicly oppose it.


In 2005, the ECHR upheld the ban in Turkish universities in a
case filed by a veiled student who was expelled from an Istanbul
medical faculty.


Erdogan reacted sharply, saying that Islamic scholars and not
courts should decide the issue, triggering an outcry that the AKP
has secret ambitions to impose Sharia, or Islamic law, in Turkey.


Gul urged respect for the headscarf Tuesday as questions over his
wife popped up immediately after his presidential candidacy was
announced.


"The headscarf is a personal choice and everyone should respect
it," he told reporters. "In democracies, everyone has individual
rights and freedoms."


But many disagreed.


The prospect of Hayrunisa becoming Turkey's first lady is "going
back" on reforms spearheaded by Ataturk in the 1920s to
encouraged women to discard the veil and enter public life,
Hurriyet columnist Mehmet Yilmaz said.


"The headscarf emphasises inequality between men and women and
symbolises social impositions that require women to cover up as a
condition to join social life alongside men," he wrote.


Many secular liberals, however, back the AKP in its opposition to
the ban, arguing that it violates religious freedoms and
polarises women simply on the basis of dress preference.


"I do not expect a crisis (over the headscarf). On the contrary,
Turkey has entered a process of relaxation," columnist Serdar
Turgut wrote in the daily Aksam.


"Mrs. Gul may be conservative, but at the same time, she is
modern," he wrote. "She is now taking on a mission to unite
divided Turkish women in her own personality."

