

Tempers have flared in various areas of Syria resulting in
scuffles with police, amid delays in announcing the results of
the weekend parliamentary polls, a newspaper reported on
Wednesday.


Al-Watan, without giving figures, said several people were
injured as unofficial partial results filtered out from the
Saturday-Sunday elections.


"Scuffles broke out north of Damascus between people celebrating
the partial results and others who contested them, leaving some
demonstrators slightly injured," it said, citing security sources
and witnesses.


During the incidents in Wafidin camp which is home mainly to
Syrians from the Israeli-annexed Golan, "the security forces
quickly moved into action and brought the situation under
control", the paper said.


A demonstration was also held in Maadan, located in the Raqqa
region of centre- north Syria, where protesters burnt tyres.


Security forces intervened with "about 20 tear-gas canisters and
firing warning shots in the air", witnesses told Al-Watan. One
resident was lightly injured in the leg.


More injuries were reported in the southern villages of Hauran
where celebratory gunshots were fired into the air, it said.


Official results were due to have been announced on Tuesday or
Wednesday after two days of polling which were marked by a
reportedly low turnout and lack of enthusiasm among the
electorate.


Interior Minister Bassam Abdel Magid will now announce the final
results on Thursday morning at a press conference, the state news
agency SANA said, adding that the vote count had been completed
in Syria's 14 provinces.


SANA attributed the delay to the large number of ballot boxes and
complaints from candidates of irregularities.


The White House on Tuesday branded Syria's parliamentary
elections "a meaningless exercise" marred by unfair laws and
intimidation tactics by the authorities.


Nearly 12 million Syrians were eligible to vote, according to
SANA, which also reported that 2,500 candidates stood for the 250
seats in the assembly.  The vote took place "in total freedom and
transparency," it said.


Of the 250 seats, 167 are reserved for the ruling National
Progressive Front coalition, led by Assad's Baath party. The
party itself is guaranteed 131 seats, or 52 percent of the total.

