

Hundreds of European workers at French construction group Eiffage
staged a demonstration here Wednesday against a takeover bid for
their company by Spain's Sacyr Vallehermoso.


"The workers are not for sale," read banners carried by the
employees from France, Belgium, Spain and Denmark as they
gathered in bright sunshine just outside France's financial
market regulator in Place de la Bourse.


A worker delegation was scheduled to meet with authorities from
the regulator to present a petition proclaiming that "employment
is too precious to be left to the mercy of stock market
speculation."


Eiffage currently employs 56,400 workers, including 40,000 in
France. Sacyr employs 16,000 people.


Eiffage and Sacyr Vallehermoso on Tuesday took their takeover
tussle to French courts, each party charging the other with
infractions in Sacyr's bid to acquire Eiffage.


Eiffage said it had filed suit in a Paris court charging certain
Sacyr shareholders with acting in concert to increase their stake
in the French group without declaring their intentions.


Management at Eiffage on Monday rejected Sacyr's 6.5-billion-euro
(8.8-billion- dollar) bid and warned it was planning legal
action.


Legal sources meanwhile said a commercial court in the Paris
suburb Nanterre had agreed to hear a case from Sacyr contesting
certain decisions at an April 18 meeting of Eiffage shareholders.


Sacyr, which already has a 33.2-percent stake in Eiffage, had
sought five seats on the management board, sparking fears in
France about a foreign takeover of one of the country's biggest
construction groups.


Spanish shareholders, who hold more than 7.0 percent of the
group, had been expected to back Sacyr's initiative at
Wednesday's general assembly.


But the company nipped their move in the bud, stripping 89
Spanish shareholders of their voting rights on grounds that they
had acted in concert to help Sacyr.


French and European employee unions have voiced concern over
Sacyr's intentions and have declared themselves staunchly opposed
to any takeover moves that do not include firm and explicit
commitments on the future of the company.


Sacyr has stressed that it "wants Eiffage to be a French group,
run by a French management team" and that it has no intention of
dismantling it.


Eiffage, the third-largest French group in public works and the
sixth-largest in Europe, is known for building the Millau viaduct
in southern France, the tallest vehicular bridge in the world.


And in another indication of its size, it has links to Gustave
Eiffel, who built the Eiffel Tower.


A tie-up with Sacyr would create the fourth-biggest European
civil engineering and construction group.

