

Security has been stepped up in the remote Himalayan kingdom of
Bhutan following the discovery of a bomb believed to have been
planted by anti-royal rebels, officials said Wednesday.


A Royal Bhutan Police official said the device was defused on
Monday near a bridge in Phuentsholing, about 180 kilometres (115
miles) south of the capital Thimphu and close to the border with
India.


"Security has been intensified and we are trying to zero in on
the people responsible for planting the improvised explosive
device," a senior police official told AFP by telephone from
Phuentsholing.


He said the Bhutan Tiger Force (BTF) -- the armed militant wing
of the exiled Bhutan Communist Party -- and the previously
unknown Bhutan Revolutionary Youth (BRY) claimed responsibility
for planting the device.


"There was a handwritten note near the bomb that mentioned the
two organisations," said the police official, who asked not to be
named.


"The BTF is out to create trouble inside Bhutan and this is the
second time such a thing has happened," he added, saying a
similar device had been discovered last month in the same area.


The BTF is believed to come from the ranks of more than 100,000
Bhutanese refugees, mostly ethnic Nepalese Hindus, have been
living in seven camps in southeast Nepal after leaving Bhutan in
1990 when the Buddhist kingdom launched cultural reforms
encouraging the use of Bhutan's language and national dress.


Bhutan later expelled more ethnic Nepalese for allegedly entering
the remote Himalayan kingdom illegally. Bhutan and Nepal have
argued for years over each other's responsibility for the
refugees.


The exiled rebels have declared an armed rebellion to overthrow
the Bhutanese regime.


The usually peaceful and landlocked Bhutan was rocked by a blast
in the same town in December in which four people, including
three Indians, were injured.


Bhutan has outlawed political parties formed by those in exile,
referring to them as anti-national terrorists and claims that
many of the refugees are not genuine Bhutanese nationals.


Last week the kingdom held "dummy elections" as part of a plan by
former king Jigme Singye Wangchuck -- who handed his crown to his
young Oxford-educated son, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, in
December -- to change with the times and relinquish absolute rule
for the throne next year.

