

Business confidence in Germany continued to climb in April as the
booming German economy, the biggest in the 13-country eurozone,
was bolstered by international investment, a survey showed
Tuesday.


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
108.6 points in April from 107.7 points in March.


The increase put the index just one-tenth of a point away from
the record score of 108.7 points recorded in December.


Analysts polled by news agency Thomson Financial had predicted a
far more modest surge, to 107.8 points.


"Germany is profiting from the extraordinary international
investment boom, which due to Germany's specialisation is having
a stronger cyclical impact than in the other major European
countries," Ifo President Hans-Werner Sinn said in a statement.


For its monthly survey, Ifo polls some 7,000 companies about
their assessment of current business and their expectations for
the next six months.


A breakdown of the data showed that the current sentiment sub-
index rose to 113.2 points in April from 112.4 points in March.


And the expectations sub-index also increased, rising to 104.3
points from 103.2 points, Ifo said.


Analysts said the data were further proof that the German economy
has weathered a steep hike in value-added tax this year.


On January 1, the government increased VAT by three full
percentage points to 19 percent, the biggest-ever single rise in
a move which experts said would put the brakes on consumer
spending and therefore drag on overall growth of the eurozone's
biggest economy.


The robust health of the economy is now expected to reduce public
debt and buoy the job market. The unemployment rate in March fell
to 9.8 percent.


In their traditional spring report, the institutes -- DIW in
Berlin, Ifo in Munich, IfW in Kiel, IHW in Halle and RWI in Essen
-- sharply upgraded their forecasts for German growth this year
to 2.4 percent from 1.4 percent.

