

Francois Bayrou, the defeated centrist who holds the key to
France's presidential election, was to announce Wednesday the
creation of a new party though not endorse either of the two
finalists, aides said.


Bayrou was to tell the 6.8 million voters who chose him in
Sunday's first round that it is their personal decision whether
to back right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy or socialist Segolene Royal
on May 6, aides said ahead of a press conference.


The new centrist party will run candidates in legislative
elections in June in the hope of influencing the future
government, the aides said.


Bayrou was the surprise "third man" of the multi-candidate stage
of the election, his 18.7 percent of the vote giving a major
boost to his political credibility.


With presidential victory hinging on the Bayrou electorate,
Sarkozy and Royal have both been seeking to lure the centrist
camp with hints of future cooperation and ministerial posts.


Royal on Tuesday indicated she was willing to "add things" to her
presidential programme in order to win Bayrou's support, and --
if elected -- to appoint ministers from his centrist party, which
is currently called the Union for French Democracy (UDF).


At a rally in the southern city of Montpellier, Royal appealed to
"all those men and women who want to expand our political family
and give it all the colours of ther rainbow."


In an interview with Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy -- who heads the
ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) -- said that there
would be room in his "presidential majority" for politicians from
the centre and the left, and that it was up to Bayrou to choose
if he wanted to join.


"He has always been in an alliance of the right and centre. If he
is to change now, that is his right -- but he has got to tell the
voters," Sarkozy said.


Opinion polls gave varying figures on the division among Bayrou
voters for round two. One said 46 percent will vote for Royal and
only 25 percent for Sarkozy. But another put them much closer at
39 percent and 35 percent. Many said they will abstain or spoil
their vote.


Six opinion polls have put Sarkozy ahead on May 6, though a
SOFRES survey on Tuesday showed his lead narrowing to 51 percent
to 49.


France is choosing a successor to 74 year-old President Jacques
Chirac, the head of state since 1995, in an election that has
become the focus of impassioned debate about the country's
future.


There was a near record turn-out in the first round and a major
reverse for far- right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who saw his vote
fall back to 10.4 percent. Many said the election was a triumph
for democracy after the shock of the 2002 vote when Le Pen
qualified for round two.


Founded in 1978, Bayrou's UDF party is part of the Europe-wide
Christian Democrat political movement and has been in almost
permanent alliance with Chirac and the right.


However in the election campaign, Bayrou veered leftwards,
winning support both from Socialists unconvinced by Royal's
presidential stature and from UMP- supporters who feel Sarkozy is
too authoritarian.


Many undecided voters were waiting for the televised debate on
May 2 between Royal and Sarkozy before deciding who to vote for.

