

India expects to have half a billion phone connections in place
by the end of the decade, a minister said Wednesday, as the
country tries to better connect its sprawling rural population.


The country, home to more than a billion and one of the world's
fastest growing telecoms markets, hopes to expand its number of
connections to 250 million by the end of 2007, a jump of more
than 30 per cent, Telecom Minister Dayanidhi Maran told
reporters.


While telecom penetration is increasing in urban areas, vast
swathes of India's rural hinterland remain untapped, Maran said.


Out of the targeted 500 million phones by 2010, the minister said
he wanted one- fifth to be in rural areas, and called for a huge
infrastructure programme to meet the target.


To make this possible, 18,000 new communications towers would be
built under an infrastructure-sharing programme to support rural
telecom connections.


Telephone penetration is currently around 25 per 100 people in
urban areas, but as low as 1.6 per 100 in rural areas.


Maran added that the "evidence is clear that future growth is
going to be in the mobile segment."


Wireless has become the driver for growth in the fiercely
competitive sector and the number of Indian mobile users
surpassed the fixed-line total in 2004.


The subscriber base for wireless services stood at 149.62 million
in December and fixed line service was 40.3 million.


The country is also aiming to have nine million broadband lines
by the end of the year, as the government plans a massive roll-
out campaign.


"Broadband is a priority area for us. We've set a target of nine
million broadband connections this year, out of which state-owned
BSNL and MTNL will do seven million while the remaining will be
done by the private operators," he said.


As of now there are 2.7 million broadband connections in the
country, he added.


By the end of December, India's overall telecom subscriber base
totalled 189.2 million, according to the latest figures. Overall
growth for the year -- December 2005 to December 2006 -- was 52
per cent.


With some of the lowest call costs in the world on top of
declining handset prices, demand for mobile phones has also been
surging.

