

In this village deep in Russia's forest expanses, the death of
its only famous son, Boris Yeltsin, has tapped a well of emotion
among residents, and not a little worry for the future.


As the funeral of Russia's first post-Soviet leader took place
2,000 kilometres (1,200 miles) west of here in Moscow on
Wednesday, many people attended mourning ceremonies in this
remote settlement of traditional wooden cottages surrounded by
pine and birch trees in the Ural mountains.


For Butka -- its name is thought to originate from the Turkic
word for "disorder" -- is the unlikely place where the larger-
than-life Russian leader was born into a farming family in 1931.


In some ways, it is that connection that has kept the village
alive.


"It's only thanks to him that we have roads here. I'm asking
myself what we can expect now," said the head of the local
cultural centre, Valentina Nikitochna, amid the ceremonies that
have taken place in local schools, the mayor's office and other
public places.


Yeltsin's early years, the first three of them in Butka, were
anything but easy.


In his early childhood, his father spent three years confined in
a gulag prison camp for grumbling at work and later in his
childhood Yeltsin lost two of his fingers while playing with a
grenade.


The display honouring Yeltsin in the local museum is relatively
modest.


But the connection is everywhere evident in the well-paved roads,
modern equipment and other signs of special funding doled out to
this village of 4,500 people under the Yeltsin presidency and
later by his charitable fund.


And when they heard the news of Yeltsin's death, residents lost
no time in sending a telegram of condolence to his relatives in
Moscow.


There are now plans to rename one of Butka's streets in Yeltsin's
honour. Which street it should be is still being discussed; the
actual one where Yeltsin was born is considered by some to be too
small and inconspicuous.


"He didn't have time to come back here once he became president
-- it's three hours by road from the nearest town... But he
always spoke of how he missed the place," said local mayor Galina
Filimonova.


"He did a lot to help. He put billions of rubles into building
roads and millions into things like buying musical instruments
and medical equipment," she said.


The head of the local cultural centre was more blunt. "Without
him this place would have turned into a swamp," said Nikitochna.


Others however remember a time when the connection was not so
respectable.


During the wars and economic ruin that many Russians associate
with Yeltsin's rule, the help the village received became
something of a liability.


"We are proud, very proud that Yeltsin was born here but we don't
shout it from the rooftops," said one resident in her 40s,
Tatyana, who declined to give her surname.


"There were times when people threatened to burn the village to
the ground. They reckoned Yeltsin had destroyed the country," she
said.

