

With a general election expected within weeks, Irish Prime
Minister Bertie Ahern said Wednesday he was embarrassed that an
electronic voting system had remained mothballed for years.


The government decided to switch to electronic voting in 2000 but
the computers were only used in two limited pilot schemes in
elections in 2002 before use of the system was suspended amid
doubts about its reliability.


Traditional paper ballots will be used in the general election
which is expected next month.


Opposition Labour leader Pat Rabbitte claimed the system had cost
62 million euros (84 million dollars) and that the cost of
storing the computers was about a million euros a year.


He said the computers had never been adequately tested and the
Electronic Voting Commission found the software "unreliable."


Rabbitte said the system had been a waste of money and claimed
"only (Zimbabwean President) Robert Mugabe would be interested in
purchasing" the "infernal" voting machines.


Ahern told the Dail (lower house of parliament) he had been left
red-faced by the efficiency of Sunday's French presidential
election first round.


"I felt embarrassed the other night when I watched the population
of over 60 million people being able to have the results of their
highest poll ever, 85 percent, in two hours."


He apologised for Ireland being a technologically-driven country
and one of the biggest exporters of software in the world going
back to the pencil method of voting.


"With a bit of luck our election will probably be finished within
about five days as we go counting it and checking the bins and
the buckets to see if a vote blew off the pile," he said.


He hoped the next government would be able to rid Ireland of the
"horrendous difficulties we have trying to be a modern country."


Ahern blamed opposition parties for "playing politics" with
e-voting and making Ireland "the laughing stock of Europe."


The hand-counting of votes means the final identity of the 166
lawmakers elected sometimes takes days to emerge.

