

International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge insisted
Wednesday the Olympics were a force for good despite boycott
calls and protests over China's hosting of next year's Games.


"We believe that the Olympic Games will have definitely a
positive, lasting effect on Chinese society and this has been
recognised by our Chinese friends and their partners," Rogge told
a press conference here.


"So definitely we believe the Games are a force for the good in
every country in which they are held."


He was speaking after four Americans were arrested at Mount
Everest base camp on Wednesday for protesting plans to run the
2008 Olympic torch relay over Tibet.


The Tibetan independence activists erected a banner that read
"One World, One Dream, Free Tibet 2008," the New York-based
Students For A Free Tibet organisation said in a statement.


"One world, one dream," is an official Beijing Olympic slogan.
Other similar banners in Chinese and Tibetan were also unfurled
by the protestors, while one wore a shirt that said "No torch
through Tibet."


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951.


Tibet's spiritual ruler, the Dalai Lama, later fled to India in
1959 after a failed uprising and established a government-in-
exile in Dharamsala.


The route for the torch relay will be announced here on Thursday
but the Beijing Olympic organising committee has already revealed
that it will pass over Mount Everest and through Tibet.


Beijing also says the torch relay will include a controversial
leg through Taiwan, the self-ruled island which is claimed by
China, though officials in Taipei deny they have agreed to host
the relay.


The 2008 Olympics have also been hit by boycott calls over
China's links to the government of Sudan, accused of abetting
genocide in the Darfur region.


Last month US actress and UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) goodwill
ambassador Mia Farrow said in a newspaper commentary that the
Beijing Games risked going down in history as the "Genocide
Olympics" due to China's support for Sudan's government.


Francois Bayrou also called during his failed run at the French
presidency for a boycott of the Games over Beijing's support for
Khartoum, which is a major oil supplier for China.


Hein Verbruggen, a top International Olympic Committee member,
speaking during a three-day meeting of the IOC's ruling executive
board, said here Wednesday that organisers of the 2008 Beijing
Games were expecting more protests of this kind as the Games
opening ceremony approached.


However, he echoed Rogge's words that the Games would be a force
for good for China and said that the IOC, a sporting
organisation, should not be drawn into political and diplomatic
disputes.


"We, as the IOC, don't want to be involved in any political
issues, this is not our task," he said.


"The question everybody should ask themselves is would any
political situation be better here (in China) if we were not
coming with the Games to China and I think the answer would be
obviously that certainly would not be the case."

