

Iran's nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani said here Wednesday that
he expected new ideas from EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
on breaking the standoff over Tehran's disputed nuclear
programme.


The two men were in the Turkish capital to try and seek a way
through the crisis sparked by Iran's defiance of US Security
Council demands to halt uranium enrichment.


Iran denies US and EU charges that it is trying to build nuclear
weapons.


Larijani told reporters that the talks with Solana aimed to
evaluate "new ideas" that might be put on the table, the Anatolia
news agency said.


But Solana's spokeswoman, Cristina Gallach, said there were "no
changes in the position of the international community," and
added that the priority was simply to "create conditions for the
beginning of negotiations."


Diplomats said there was little hope of a breakthrough given
Iran's steadfast refusal to freeze its enrichment work.


Solana will travel on Thursday to Oslo, where he will brief EU
foreign ministers on his meeting with Larijani.


Iran is defying two UN Security Council resolutions to halt
enrichment, saying its programme is a legitimate effort to
generate civilian nuclear power. The Council has imposed limited
sanctions as punishment.


Diplomats told AFP that while everyone was trying to find a
formula to start talks, the two sides remain far apart on a
crisis that began in 2002 when it was revealed that Iran was
secretly building nuclear facilities.


The United States, Europe, Russia and China are ready in a
compromise gesture to give Iran a chance to edge its way slowly
into stopping uranium enrichment, diplomats said.


The six world powers -- Britian, China, France, Germany, Russia
and the United States -- had last June offered economic,
technical and security benefits if Iran would agree to the
suspension.


But Iran pressed ahead and negotiations never started.


Larijani and Solana held several rounds of talks that failed to
find a way to start meetings with the six powers. The two envoys
last met face-to-face on the sidelines of a Munich security
conference on February 11.


Larijani said Wednesday that progress had been blocked when "some
unacceptable, irrational conditions were put forward" -- a clear
reference to the demands that Iran suspend enrichment.


"If a solution can be found, it will cost the price of
suspension," a European diplomat said.


A second diplomat said one idea would be for Iran to declare a
moratorium on moving beyond activities it has already started,
such as installing and running some 1,300 centrifuge machines as
it seeks to upgrade from current research levels of enrichment to
industrial production.


The moratorium could open the way for further talks with Solana,
with the UN Security Council holding off on further sanctions
against the Islamic Republic.


Iran's proposals involve it keeping at least a reduced level of
enrichment work, diplomats said.


Non-proliferation expert Gary Samore told AFP by telephone from
Washington that Tehran wants the EU to agree to setting up an
international consortium in Iran for uranium enrichment.


But the major powers want such a consortium, which would process
fuel for Iran, to be set up outside the Islamic Republic.


A Western diplomat said talks with the five permanent Security
Council members plus Germany would not in any case start before
Iran suspends enrichment.


"Suspension does not mean dismantling what they have built," the
diplomat said, adding that it was mainly about stopping the
centrifuges from spinning in the refining of the U-235 isotope
that makes for enriched uranium as well as keeping the Iranians
from learning how to run centrifuges.


Iran faces a new Security Council deadline in one month, after
which more sanctions could be imposed.


The United States has not ruled out a military attack to bring
Iran to heel.

