

The family of the late Hong Kong tycoon Nina Wang launched a
legal challenge Wednesday against the feng shui master who has
claimed her entire multi-billion dollar fortune.


Wang's family filed a writ in the High Court claiming her 2002
will, which reportedly says a majority of the tycoon's assets
should be used for charitable purposes, is final and valid.


The writ was filed by Wang's brother and two sisters under the
name of a trust, the Chinachem Charitable Foundation, linked to
the company she ran.


Feng shui master Chan Chun Chuen, 48, said last week he had a
2006 will naming him as the sole beneficiary of Wang's estate,
estimated to be worth at least 4.2 billion US dollars.


He has 14 days to respond to the family's writ, the document
said. Chan's lawyer declined to comment.


Chinachem Charitable Foundation said in a statement that it was
determined to fulfill the late tycoon's wishes.


"The members of the board of Chinachem Charitable Foundation
Limited ... are committed to upholding her wishes, which to the
best of their knowledge have been expressed in her 2002 will and
include the collection and use of her estate for charitable
purposes," it said.


Wang, who was Asia's richest woman, died on April 4 aged 69 with
no heirs.


She built her late husband Teddy Wang's Chinachem into a real
estate empire after taking it over following his disappearance in
1990. He is believed to have been kidnapped and was declared dead
in 1999, although his body was never found.


Wang's father-in-law Wang Din-shin, now 96, sued to win control
of Teddy's assets in a bitter eight-year court battle that saw
the two sides trade accusations of adultery, sloth and naked
greed. She won in 2005.


Wednesday's writ is set to spark another costly and spectacular
courtroom drama, this time involving the little-known Chan,
described by his lawyer as a successful property developer who
practices feng shui as a hobby.


Wang's 2002 will reportedly says that the charitable trust should
be supervised by the United Nations secretary general, the
Chinese premier and the leader of Hong Kong.


The pigtailed, mini-skirt-wearing mogul, often seen as an
eccentric, reportedly also wanted to set up awards similar to the
Nobel Prize and provide cash for her family.

