

A team of North Korean officials arrived in Myanmar's main city
of Yangon on Wednesday to discuss resuming diplomatic ties among
two of the world's most secretive regimes, diplomats said.


The four-person team arrived at 0900 GMT, although the Myanmar
government did not send any senior officials to welcome them. Two
black, unmarked Mercedes drove the North Korean delegation to
their hotel.


Military-run Myanmar and Pyongyang's communist leaders severed
ties after the North staged a deadly bomb attack on a South
Korean government delegation here in 1983.


Both countries are largely isolated from the rest of the global
community, Myanmar because of its junta and human rights record
and the North because of its hardline Stalinist leadership and
nuclear weapons programme.


"Both sides want to reach an agreement to resume diplomatic
ties," an Asian diplomat in Yangon told AFP on condition of
anonymity. The North Koreans are expected to spend three days in
Myanmar, he added.


The visit, led by North Korea's deputy foreign minister Kim Yong-
Il, has sparked speculation among Yangon's diplomatic community
that the reclusive Stalinist state could become the first to open
an embassy in Naypyidaw, the military government's new
administrative capital in central Myanmar.


"We have to wait and see whether they have a discussion about
opening an official embassy," the diplomat said.


"The foreign minister will meet them first. If the meeting is
positive, a senior military leader would also meet them."


According to diplomats, the North Korean delegation will spend a
night in Yangon and then head to Naypyidaw on Thursday.


However, Myanmar foreign ministry officials declined to reveal
any details of the trip.


"We can't answer any questions because we don't know anything
about it," a senior official said.


The 1983 attack at the Martyr's Mausoleum near the famous
Shwedagon pagoda aimed to assassinate South Korea's then-
president Chun Doo Hwan, who was on an official visit to the
city.


Chun survived the blast but it killed 17 of his entourage,
including four cabinet ministers, while 17 others were wounded.
Four Myanmar officials also died.

