

Asian stocks closed mixed on Wednesday with investors continuing
to consolidate as the current corporate earnings season gets
underway.


A mixed performance on Wall Street overnight amid weak reports on
the US housing market and consumer confidence also weighed on
sentiment and with Tokyo shedding 1.24 percent investors had
every reason to cash-up where they could.


In Singapore, the benchmark eased 0.35 percent, Seoul was down
0.72 percent, Taipei fell 0.75 percent while Kuala Lumpur shed
0.12 percent and Hong Kong slipped 0.18 percent.


However, strength was maintained in Shanghai, which rose 0.63
percent to another record close, while Jakarta gained 0.26
percent, Manila was up 0.53 percent, Bangkok was up 0.70 percent
and Mumbai gained 0.57 percent.


Sydney and Wellington were closed for public holidays.


TOKYO: Share prices closed down 1.24 percent as investors fretted
over the health of the US economy and the start of the domestic
corporate results season.


Dealers said investors were also hesitant to take large positions
before the Golden Week national holidays begin this weekend.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 215.61 points to 17,236.16. Volume was
1.81 billion shares, down slightly from 1.82 billion Tuesday.


"Weak US economic data overnight seems to have given rise to the
view that confidence in the US economy has not recovered much,"
said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equity general manager at Daiwa
Securities SMBC.


However, he said there was no need for investors to fret too much
about the health of the US economy after the existing home sales
figures.


More economic indicators due out later Wednesday, including March
new home sales and durable goods orders, will provide further
leads on the US outlook.


"The conservative earnings forecasts of some Japanese
corporations for this fiscal year also weighed on sentiment,"
Takahashi said.


He said the market was waiting to see more results this week and
after Golden Week to assess the earnings growth of Japanese
firms.


Investors were waiting for a batch of Japanese economic data on
Friday, including March consumer prices and the Bank of Japan's
latest report on the outlook for economic activity and prices.


Canon added 50 yen to 6,710.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.18 percent weaker on worries the
mainland could see a significant correction if the Chinese
government announces further macro- economic controls, possibly
during the golden week holidays next week.


Dealers said any sharp fall on the Shanghai market will have a
spillover effect on Chinese firms listed here.


Investors were also cautious ahead of the expiry of April futures
contracts and the release of key US economic data later in the
week.


The Hang Seng index closed down 36.02 points at 20,536.78.
Turnover was 44.39 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.8 billion US
dollars).


"While the market came off sharp falls, sentiment was however
weak. This was due mainly to worries of a possible sharp
correction in the Shanghai market which could have a spillover
effect and pull down H-shares in Hong Kong," said Howard Gorges,
vice chairman at South China Securities.


"Many investors are speculating that Chinese authorities might
adopt measures during the holidays next week to keep a tighter
rein on the economy and the stock markets," he said.


Gorges said that Chinese authorities may opt for incremental
moves, such as raising interest rates and banks' reserve ratio
requirements.


He said the settlement of April futures contracts on Friday and
the release of more US economic data in the next few days added
to general investor caution.


China Mobile closed down 0.35 dollars at 73.00.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.72 percent lower as institutional
investors took profits after the recent record breaking run.


Dealers said after extending gains in early trade, stocks slipped
back in line with weaker regional markets after US existing home
sales data showed a sharp fall to stoke fresh concerns on the
outlook for the US economy.


The KOSPI index ended down 11.16 points at 1,545.55. Volume was
437 million shares worth 6.4 trillion won (6.9 billion dollars).


"The market moved in line with other weaker regional markets,
with sales by investment trust firms amid increasing calls for
fund redemptions," said Seoul Securities analyst Ji Ki-Ho.


Ji said foreign investors were net sellers for the first time
since April 12, apparently anxious to get ahead of the rest of
the market.


Samsung Electronics lost 7,000 won to 564,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed down 0.75 percent at the day's low as
losses across regional markets weakened any follow-through
interest and drove investors to take profits.


Dealers said sectors that still had profits to offer following a
previous rally, particularly select technology firms, were
hardest hit.


The weighted index closed down 60.36 points at 7,984.65 on
turnover of 93.78 billion Taiwan dollars (2.84 billion US).


Kai Yuan Securities Investment Consultant Co president Tom Tang
said lackluster trading in regional markets sparked profit-taking
in the local market.


The low trade turnover, however, indicated that many investors
kept to the sidelines to wait for the release of other corporate
earnings results before taking any further action, he said.


"Some stocks had factored in such positive leads earlier, and
short-term selling emerged after such leads were disclosed."


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co fell 0.50 to 69.30.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed mixed as Shanghai chalked up yet
another record finish while stocks in Shenzhen fell on profit-
taking.


Dealers said volumes continued very heavy but the inconclusive
showing probably reflected some position adjustment ahead of the
long Labour Day holiday next week.


The Shanghai Composite Index, added 23.43 points or 0.63 percent
at 3,743.96, a fresh all-time high, on turnover of 175.45 billion
yuan (22.70 billion dollars).


The concern is that the government could take further measures
soon to try to slow the runaway economy, having failed to act
when very strong first quarter growth figures were released
earlier this month.


With the market sitting on gains of more than 215 percent since
January last year, there is plenty of profit to be taken and
investors may want to have their positions squared just in case
the government does act during the week long holiday.


Dealers said the banks were in focus in Shanghai as Bank of
Communications began taking retail subscriptions for its listing
in China's financial hub next month. Institutional investors
began subscribing to the initial public offering (IPO) Wednesday.


They said demand for stock in the Shanghai-based group, China's
fifth-largest lender, which aims to issue 4.5 billion A-shares,
might divert funds away from CITIC bank's IPO on Friday.


CITIC, ranked seventh in China, is expected to raise 5.4 billion
dollars in a dual Shanghai and Hong Kong offering that will mark
the world's biggest IPO so far this year.


"Some investors chose to lock in gains before the long vacation
next week and it's completely normal to see some correction after
recent strong gains," said Wang Mingzhi, an analyst at GF
Securities.


Shenyang Machine Tool was down 0.90 yuan at 20.49.


SYDNEY: Closed.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 0.35 percent lower with many
investors moving to the sidelines ahead of more first quarter
corporate earnings reports.


The Straits Times Index closed down 11.84 points at 3,362.68 on
volume of 2.69 billion shares worth 2.11 billion dollars (1.40
billion US).


"The market has seen some profit-taking... It's consolidating
ahead of next week's holiday and the earnings reporting season,"
UOB KayHian analyst K. Ajith said.


But dealers said the consolidation will be short-lived once the
earnings reports come out and boost trading interest.


Keppel Corp, CapitaLand and Chartered Semiconductor are among
companies issuing first-quarter earnings this week.


"I think the Index will break out of this consolidation by early
next week. Right now, it is mainly the smaller cap stocks that
are coming into play," Ajith said.


Singapore Telecommunications fell 0.06 to 3.34.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.12 percent lower as investors
cut their positions and took profit ahead of upcoming holidays.


Dealers said profit-taking was well absorbed, with continued
buying interest in property stocks helping to limit losses.


The composite index closed down 1.53 points at 1,315.97 on
turnover of 1.42 billion shares worth 2.04 billion ringgit
(596.49 million dollars).


"The market was quiet today, with mild profit-taking seen as
investors cut their positions ahead of the coming holiday, but
there was also some bargain-hunting in the lower liners," a local
trader said.


"Nevertheless, market sentiment remained firm, with the property
sector still attracting buying interest," he said.


Tenaga shed 0.10 ringgit to 11.80.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.70 percent higher, bucking a mixed
regional market, as investors bought banking and property stocks.


Dealers said the market held firm on buying of energy-linked
shares in line with an increase in global oil prices.


The composite index rose 4.82 points to 690.30 on turnover of 1.9
billion shares worth 11.1 billion baht (320 million dollars).


"The market was supported by buying of banking and property
sectors due to their steady earnings in the first quarter," said
Kanang Duangmanee, an economist at Kasikorn Research Center.


While the regional market closed mixed, the Thai bourse rose on
buying of energy-linked shares, which account for 30 percent of
the kingdom's stock market, due to an increase in global oil
prices, Kanang said.


PTT rose 2.00 baht to 210.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed 0.26 percent higher with sustained
interest in small companies helping the main index to finish in
positive territory.


The composite index closed up 5.101 points at 1,986.671. Volume
was 5.39 billion shares worth 3.84 trillion rupiah (422.67
million dollars).


Investors have been buying small caps stocks as most blue chips
have become richly valued, said Maxi Liesyaputra, an analyst with
Sucorinvest Securities.


"As far as the big caps are concerned, there are no fresh
incentives to buy. The only good news today was Bukit Asam's
strong first quarter results," he said.


Coal mining firm Bukit Asam rose 100 rupiah or 2.6 percent to
3,900 after announcing a 185 percent year-on-year rise in its
first quarter to March net profit. Rival Bumi Resources gained 30
rupiah to close at 1,400.


Astra International rose 300 rupiah to 14,500.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.53 percent higher due to sharp
gains among blue chips.


Dealers said investors ignored the surprise resignation Tuesday
of respected National Treasurer Omar Cruz, opting to focus on the
bright outlook for the economy.


The composite index rose 17.50 points to 3,309.43. Volume
amounted to 8.6 billion shares worth 3.2 billion pesos (67.3
million dollars).


Dealers said stock trading was largely directionless as the
market attempted to convincingly breach the 3,300 resistance.


"It was seesaw trading for most of the session as the market was
trying to find its range," said Rommel Macapagal of Westlink
Global Equities.


"The uncertainty due to the fast-approaching midterm elections is
also starting to creep into the market as investors are just
waiting for dips to buy, and selling at every opportunity," added
Macapagal.


Investors largely shrugged off news that the head of the Bureau
of Treasury has quit for "family reasons," according to Finance
Secretary Margarito Teves.


"Investors were  still focused on the economic fundamentals, and
I don't see any reason at this point why we should not go back to
the 3,400 level," said Gomer Tan of Regina Capital Development
Corp.


Globe Telecom gained 15 to 1,240.


WELLINGTON: Closed.


MUMBAI: Share prices rose 0.57 percent, extending gains for four
straight days, after India's central bank left key short-term
borrowing rates unchanged the previous day.


Dealers said the markets could turn choppy towards the expiry of
the April futures trading contract on Thursday.


The Mumbai 30-share Sensex index closed up 81.05 points at
14,217.77.


Dealers said they were confident that capital flows would sustain
with India's central bank unlikely to intervene to curb rupee
gains as it tackles inflation running above six percent.


Allowing the rupee to rise makes imports cheaper.


"The markets were choppy in early trade but strong fund buying
was seen towards the close," said Advait Date, dealer with
brokerage BHH Securities.

