

A media watchdog on Wednesday described 2006 as the "most savage
and brutal" year on record for journalists with 100 media
professionals killed across the world.


It was a "war on journalism," said Johann Fritz, director of the
International Press Institute.


"With 100 journalists killed, 2006 was the most savage and brutal
year in the history of the modern media," said Fritz in the IPI's
annual report.


Conflict-torn Iraq, where more than 150 media workers have died
since the 2003 US-led invasion, topped the list as the world's
most dangerous place for the media for the fourth year. In 2006,
46 journalists died reporting the conflict.


In almost all cases, the deaths were targeted killings, the
report added.


Journalists were killed in 23 other nations last year with the
second most deadly country being the Philippines, with 10
killings. The IPI study covered 180 countries.


Seven journalists died in Mexico; five in Sri Lanka; four in
Pakistan; three each in Afghanistan and Colombia; and two each in
Venezuela, Russia, India and China.


Most of the victims were from the local media and almost all the
killings were carried out with impunity, the report said.


The IPI, which comprises media workers drawn from 120 countries,
said the highest toll recorded in the recent past had been in
1999 when 86 journalists had died during the course of their
work.


In 2005, a total of 65 journalists had died -- 13 less than the
preceding year.


The watchdog said apart from the killings several countries
continued to gag journalists, making it impossible for them to
work freely.


It singled out North Korea, Turkmenistan, Libya, Syria and Saudi
Arabia as being among the most repressive.


And it pointed to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Gambia,
Zimbabwe and Russia, as countries where journalists were subject
to exactions and violence.


Russia was the only European nation where a journalist was killed
in the past year.


Russian investigative journalist and fierce Kremlin critic Anna
Politkovskaya was shot dead on October 7 in the entrance to her
Moscow apartment building.


She was the 13th journalist believed to have been murdered for
her work since President Vladimir Putin took power in 2000 -- and
the 43rd since 1997. Few such crimes have been solved.


"The murder of Novaya Gazeta journalist, Anna Politkovskaya,
highlighted the dangers of reporting in Russia, and questioned
the authorities' desire to investigate such crimes," it said.


The organisation also expressed concern over legal action
following the publication of cartoons of Prophet Mohammed. The
cartoons sparked violent protests in several countries after they
were published in a Danish newspaper and reproduced elsewhere.


The IPI also blasted attempts to push through a clause to ban
"religious defamation," in several countries and even in the
United Nations.


Earlier, the media rights groups the International Federation of
Journalists and Reporters sans Frontieres (RSF, Journalists
Without Borders) had put the toll of journalists killed last year
at 155 and 81 respectively.


The figures are at variance due to differing views of what
happened in some incidents, but also because of different
definitions of what constitutes a journalist.

