

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Wednesday reportedly ruled out a
large-scale Israeli operation against the Gaza Strip in response
to the first barrage of Hamas rocket fire on his country in
months.


He took the decision during emergency talks with defence
officials to weigh Israel's reaction to Tuesday's barrage of
rocket fire, army radio reported several hours after the top-
level security meeting got underway.


Defence Minister Amir Peretz was quoted as telling the meeting
that "Israel will not let this fire go without a response."


The prime minister's office was not immediately available for
comment on the report.


The armed wing of Hamas on Tuesday claimed to have fired nearly
100 projectiles into Israel, albeit causing no casualties or
damage, as the Jewish state marked Independence Day and declared
that a November truce was over.


The Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades, whose sister political branch is
the senior partner in the Palestinian coalition government, had
said it was abandoning the truce following Israeli raids that
killed nine Palestinians at the weekend.


It marked the first time the armed wing of Hamas claimed a rocket
attack on Israel, despite dozens of previous such assaults from
the Gaza Strip, since militants agreed on November 26 to halt
such fire.


The radical Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, which is linked to
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party, also claimed to
have fired four rockets.


Israel has declared several times in recent months that it would
not allow Hamas and other armed factions to strengthen in the
Gaza Strip, as intelligence sources warned that militants were
using the calm to stockpile arms.


"We feel today free to do things that we avoided doing several
months ago. Anyone who wants to try us, will get what he
deserves," Deputy Defence Minister Ephraim Sneh told public radio
before the meeting.


"We are not interested in escalation. We want to do whatever is
necessary to lower the level of terror" in the Gaza Strip.


Talks were also scheduled between Egyptian officials and
Palestinian armed factions in a bid to shore-up the five-month
truce that saw Israeli troops leave Gaza and militants vow to
hold rocket fire.


An Egyptian security delegation, which is based permanently in
the Gaza Strip and headed by General Bourhan Hamad, was to meet
representatives of all the Palestinian factions, following
initial talks overnight.


The Palestinian government has said it is standing by the
ceasefire.


Although the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades said it fired nearly 30
rockets and 61 mortar rounds on Tuesday, the Israeli army
identified only two rocket and eight mortar shell impacts, none
of which caused any damage.


An army spokesman said another two rockets were launched
overnight and early Wednesday, without any impacts inside Israel.


Israeli security sources said they suspected Tuesday's barrage
could have been intended as a diversionary tactic aimed at
capturing Israeli soldiers, as on June 25 when a conscripted
corporal was seized in a cross-border raid.


"The truce no longer exists," Abu Obaida, a spokesman for Hamas's
armed Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades told AFP on Tuesday. "It's the
Israeli enemy that has not respected it and now it's the turn of
Palestinian groups."


A spokesman for Hamas prime minister Ismail Haniya said the
government "remains bound to the truce to preserve the interests
of the Palestinian people and to protect them from the crimes and
aggressions of the enemy."


The US State Department and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana
have also warned the Palestinians not to abandon the ceasefire.

