

Japan launched a study Wednesday on how it could fight for allies
without breaching its pacifist constitution, a controversial move
that could boost the country's global role and alliance with the
United States.


The move came the day before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a
conservative who has vowed to create a more assertive Japan,
makes his first visit to the United States since taking office.


"It is necessary to reconstruct the legal foundations to make
security effective and match the situation of the times," Abe
said, calling for the panel to consider the issue of so-called
"collective defence."


His government appointed an advisory panel of former officials
and academics led by ex-ambassador to Washington Shunji Yanai.


The panel would hold its first meeting on May 18 and aim to draw
up a report to Abe before the end of the year, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki aid.


One theoretical case the panel will reportedly consider is
whether Japan has the right to destroy a ballistic missile fired
by North Korea at the United States.


The constitution, imposed by US occupiers after World War II,
says Japan forever renounces the use of force to resolve
international disputes.


Successive governments have interpreted the 1947 constitution as
allowing the right only to self-defence in the strictest sense.


Abe, Japan's first leader born after World War II, has vowed to
rewrite the constitution.


"I hope that discussions will be actively held with the people on
the way the constitution, which presents the shape and form of
the nation, should be as we strive to build a new nation," Abe
said.


But a senior member of his own party publicly disagreed with him
as they attended a ceremony marking next week's 60th anniversary
of the constitution taking effect.


"Under the constitution, troops from our country have never
stolen the life of a single person in any other country. This
path of peace is an achievement we can be proud of," said Yohei
Kono, speaker of the House of Representatives.


"It is my ardent hope that discussions on the constitution will
be held from a broad point of view and with the willingness to
learn from history in a humble manner and with a sense of
responsibility for the future of our country and people."


History issues remain sore points with China and South Korea,
which often accuse Japan of failing to atone for its past.


A 2000 report, written by Richard Armitage and other US foreign
policy experts, labelled the ban a "constraint" and called for it
to be lifted.


Armitage, who served as deputy secretary of state under President
George W. Bush from 2001 to 2005, met Abe on Wednesday and
discussed the panel.


Armitage, now employed in the private sector, told reporters that
the decision to study the issue "allows more flexibility from
Japan and we think this is a good thing."


The United States stations more than 40,000 troops in Japan and
is obliged by treaty to protect the country from enemy attack.


Japan has gradually been boosting its military despite its
official pacifism. Last month it deployed its first ballistic
missile defence system amid growing concern about North Korea.


Japan's most high-profile mission was to send troops to Iraq on a
reconstruction mission.


But due to the pacifist constitution, the forces were protected
by soldiers from allied nations. The Japanese troops returned
home last year without firing a single shot.

