

Former Malaysian deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim on Wednesday
lost a lengthy court battle to declare as unlawful his
controversial sacking nine years ago by former premier Mahathir
Mohamad.


Anwar was sacked from his posts as deputy premier and finance
minister in September 1998 and lodged an appeal in December that
year with the Court of Appeal, arguing the move was
unconstitutional.


But the court Wednesday ruled the dismissal was executed lawfully
since Mahathir had the power as prime minister to appoint and
dismiss ministers, the official Bernama news agency reported.


Anwar said he would appeal the decision in the Federal Court, the
nation's highest court, arguing the king had not approved his
removal on the same day he was sacked -- a requirement in
Malaysia's constitution.


The king had only signed the revocation of his appointment on
September 5 and not September 2, the day of his dismissal, Anwar
told reporters Wednesday.


"My point is I was sacked unconstitutionally," he said.


Mahathir fired Anwar after he faced sodomy and corruption charges
that landed him in jail for six years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction was later overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 14, 2008.


Anwar and his supporters said the court announcement was aimed at
discrediting him ahead of a crucial by-election Saturday in Ijok,
central Selangor state, which is seen as a test of his
popularity.


"They announce the decision just before the Ijok election. Yes,
it is to say I lost the court appeal," Anwar told reporters.


The former leader has been on the campaign trail for the
opposition People's Justice Party or Keadilan, which he advises
and which is headed by his wife.


"It is just to embarrass Anwar ahead of the by-election,"
Keadilan vice- president Sivarasiah Rasiah told AFP.


A state lawmaker's death earlier this month precipitated the
ballot, which is a fierce contest between Keadilan and the ruling
National Front coalition.


The ruling coalition won by 1,649 votes over People's Justice in
2004.

