

Journalists on Wednesday rallied in calling for the release of
BBC journalist Alan Johnston, kidnapped more than a six weeks ago
and with still no clear indication of his fate.


The demonstration was organised by Israel's Foreign Press
Association at the main border crossing between Israel and the
Gaza Strip.


Gathering on both sides of the checkpoint, dozens of foreign
correspondents and Palestinian journalists attended the latest in
a series of international demonstrations in support for Johnston,
now the longest-held Westerner in Gaza.


Carrying photographs of the 44-year-old Johnston, journalists
called for his release more than six weeks after he was snatched
at gunpoint while driving home from work in Gaza City on March
12.


"Alan is the only foreign correspondent living full time in the
Gaza Strip. In doing so for three years he showed his personal
commitment and that of the BBC to reporting the story of Gaza and
its people in a fair and balanced way," Simon McGregor-Wood, the
chairman of the FPA, told the gathering.


"With his kidnapping that reporting has stopped.


"We demand Alan's immediate release and we urge all those who
have anything to do with solving this terrible situation to
redouble their efforts to ensure Alan's return to his family,
colleagues and friends," he added.


Jonathan Baker, the BBC's deputy head of news gathering, appealed
on those holding Johnston to release him.


"We make a plea directly to those who are holding Alan, to set
him free. His only offence was to expose himself to personal
danger because of a strong desire to bring the story of Gaza to
the outside world," he said.


Britain's National Union of Journalists is to hold a similar
vigil later on Wednesday outside the Palestinian General
Delegation office in west London.


On Tuesday, Palestinian deputy prime minister Azzam al-Ahmed said
his office had information indicating that Johnston was in good
health.


On April 15, a little-known Islamist group claimed to have killed
him, but Palestinian authorities have said there was no proof of
the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy
War and Unity).


The BBC says an online petition has now registered more than
50,000 names in support of Johnston.

