

The producer of television programs "Survivor" and "The
Apprentice" has teamed with social-networking website MySpace to
make a political reality show combining real and virtual worlds.


MySpace and Mark Burnett will ask the US Internet community to
pick "the nation's next great politician" from contenders
featured in a television program dubbed "Independent."


Candidates will be culled from those that nominate themselves in
videos uploaded to MySpace, a youth-oriented socializing website
owned by News Corporation in New York City.


Contestants will interact daily with supporters, protestors and
activists in "an interactive town hall environment."


"In most reality shows the contestants live in a bubble," said
MySpace vice president of communications and manager of video
Jeff Berman.


"In this one, you need to build a community of friends just like
Hillary Clinton, John McCain and other candidates are doing. When
each episode ends the campaign goes on."


"Independent" candidates will promote their views and cultivate
support on MySpace profile pages. Television and Internet viewers
will get to vote online or by telephone. One candidate will be
eliminated from "Independent" each week.


The television program is tentatively slated to be air from
January to May of 2008.


MySpace and Burnett's production company are seeking a television
network to air the program and did not disclose financial terms
of the alliance. Fox television network is among the News Corp.
holdings.


MySpace chief executive Chris DeWolfe depicted "Independent" as
"a giant leap in the re-democratization of American politics."


"MySpace puts political power back in the hands of everyday
people and 'Independent' takes it to a whole new level," said
MySpace president Tom Anderson.


US presidential candidates that have profile pages on MySpace's
politically- themed Impact Channel are likely to tune into
"Independent" for insights to topics and videos that resonate
with voters, according to Berman.


"I think some of the best videos done in the coming (US) election
cycle will be done in connection with these competitions," Berman
told AFP. "Everyone here is jazzed about merging the political
space and online video."


The candidate chosen as the "voice of young Americans" will win a
million dollars that they must give away to whatever cause they
wish.


"The winner can give it to Planned Parenthood or a pro-life
group; the National Rifle Association or gun control, or decide
to really run and donate it to their own campaign fund," Berman
said.


"MySpace is creating people-powered politics in a brand new way."


It remains to be determined how many candidates will be chosen
for "Independent," but the number is to be in line with those
Burnett has preferred for his shows such as Survivor, Apprentice,
and The Contender.


"We're going to discover in a big way, what America really
thinks, and bring to light the issues that are closest to those
who now finally have a chance to be heard," Burnett said of his
project with MySpace.


"The world's largest social networking community is found on
MySpace and this huge, powerful group of young Americans will
definitely generate strong opinions, and unquestionable
influence."


Shows produced by Burnett include the successful new program "Are
You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader?" for Fox and "Gold Rush," an
adventure program featured exclusively on America OnLine.

