

English Premiership giants Leicester on Wednesday confirmed the
appointment of current Argentina coach Marcelo Loffreda as their
new head coach.


Loffreda will take charge at Welford Road after this year's World
Cup in October.


The 47-year-old, who won 44 caps for Argentina and took over as
Pumas coach in 2000, will succeed Pat Howard, who is returning to
Australia in the summer.


Loffreda has been linked with the Tigers post for several months,
and was an overwhelming favourite for arguably English club
rugby's top job.


And he could inherit a Leicester side at the peak of its powers.


Tigers have already won the EDF Energy Cup this season, while
they meet Wasps in next month's European Cup final and are also
contesting the Premiership title.


Leicester chairman Peter Tom said: "Marcelo has done a marvellous
job in taking Argentina to the top ranks of the international
game.


"He is recognised as a top-class coach, and has developed a squad
of quality players to the point where they have reached number
six in the world rankings.


"I have been impressed by his thoughts on the game, his approach
to coaching and his ideas on how to take Leicester Tigers
forward.


"We look forward to the fresh input from Marcelo, as well as the
continued development of the existing staff and players at the
club."


With Howard due to depart at the end of this season, forwards
coach Richard Cockerill will take charge of team affairs,
assisted by the rest of the Tigers coaching team, until
Loffreda's arrival.


"To be invited to join this great club as head coach was an
honour not only for me, but also for the people who love rugby in
Argentina," said Loffreda.


"Leicester is a club with a wonderful history and has supporters
who are passionate about their club. I know there is also a squad
of players with a hunger and drive to be the best.


"There are some exiting times ahead for us all at Tigers."


Loffreda will inherit a Leicester squad that includes Argentine
internationals Marcos Ayerza and Alex Moreno, while New Zealand
centre Aaron Mauger has already been confirmed as a post-World
Cup arrival at the club.

