

Chinese police detained four Americans at Mount Everest base camp
Wednesday after a protest against China's plan to take the
Olympic torch to the top of the mountain, a rights group said.


Three protesters were held after erecting a banner that read "One
World, One Dream, Free Tibet 2008," the New York-based Students
For A Free Tibet organisation said in a statement.


"One world, One Dream," is an official Beijing Olympic slogan.


Other similar banners in Chinese and Tibetan were also unfurled,
while one protester wore a shirt that said "No torch through
Tibet."


The protesters included Tenzin Dorjee, the first known exiled
Tibetan to return to the region to protest, the statement said.


The other two activists were identified as Kirsten Westby and Mac
Sutherlin, while a fourth American who was there to document the
protest, videographer Shannon Service, was also detained, the
group said.


The US embassy in Beijing said it was unaware of the incident but
would seek consular access to those Americans detained if the
incident was confirmed.


Authorities in Tibet were not immediately available to comment.


China sent troops in to "liberate" Tibet in 1951. The Dalai Lama
later fled to India in 1959 after a failed uprising and
established a government-in-exile in Dharamsala.


The protest comes a day before the International Olympic
Committee (IOC) is to approve the route for the 2008 Beijing
Olympic torch relay, which organisers hope to take to the top of
the world's highest mountain.


"Mount Everest is not in China, it's in Tibet... the
International Olympic Committee has no business promoting the
Chinese government's political agenda by allowing the torch to be
run through Tibet," said Lhadon Tethong, head of the rights
group.


IOC chiefs who were in Beijing on Wednesday did not want to
comment on the protest but insisted the torch relay would be a
huge success.


Senior IOC member Hein Verbruggen said "a lot of people will be
happy" with the announcement.


"Every country that gets the torch relay is very excited,"
Verbruggen told a press conference here.


The demonstration at base camp also marked the 18th birthday of
Gendhun Choekyi Nyima a boy chosen in 1995 by the exiled Dalai
Lama as the Panchen Lama, Tibetan Buddhism's second most
important spiritual leader.


The boy disappeared into Chinese custody at the time and has not
been seen since, while Chinese authorities selected another child
as the Panchen Lama.


On Wednesday, Tibetans and supporters would be staging protests
for Gendhun Choekyi Nyima's release at Chinese embassies and
consulates worldwide, the group said.

