

Commonwealth Secretary-General Don McKinnon said Wednesday the
group was keeping watch on Pakistan for signs of democratic
progress ahead of a year-end deadline for change.


Pakistan was suspended from the 53-nation organisation after then
army chief Pervez Musharraf seized power in a military coup in
1999.


Pakistan was reinstated five years later in May 2004 after
intense lobbying, with the Commonwealth noting progress in
restoring democracy.


But McKinnon said the group was watching reforms in Pakistan and
had earmarked an end-of-year deadline for Musharraf to stop
holding dual posts as president and army chief.


"Pakistan is no longer suspended, but it still remains on the
agenda," McKinnon, in Malaysia as part of a regional tour, told
AFP in an interview.


Commonwealth leaders have noted Musharraf has "done a lot to
bring a degree of normalcy and democracy back to the country," he
said, citing increased participation by women and minority groups
in parliament.


"But the one thing that they were concerned about was that
President Musharraf was still holding the office of president and
operational commander of the armed forces," he said.


"By the end of this year, they would expect him to divide those
two offices," he said.


McKinnon would not say if the Commonwealth would consider another
suspension for Pakistan if Musharraf did not make the deadline,
but signalled the group would take the matter seriously.


"Commonwealth leaders will not be very happy, I can put it that
way, if that decision is not dealt with," he said.


He said Pakistan, which had bitterly criticised its suspension,
was "keen to maintain their status in the Commonwealth" and that
the country had willingly worked with the group.


"We do recognise that Pakistan does have more problems than just
its relationship with the Commonwealth," McKinnon said.


"But on the other hand, the Commonwealth does have certain
ideals, certain criteria, which we expect nations to maintain,"
he said.


Pakistan's foreign ministry promptly rejected McKinnon's
concerns.


"On matters relating to Pakistan's domestic situation, the
president has stated that decisions on these issues will be taken
in accordance with the constitution of Pakistan," ministry
spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam told AFP.


"This is a clear position and should obviate the need for
speculative comments, especially by outsiders."


Pakistan's constitution states that Musharraf is meant to quit as
army chief at the end of 2007.


But Pakistan's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz on Monday said
Musharraf -- who promised to shed his uniform at the end of 2004
but then reneged -- would himself decide when to step down as
army chief.


Aziz added that Musharraf would be re-elected as president for a
second five- year term by the current parliament in September or
October, before it is dissolved ahead of general elections.


Opposition parties say Musharraf's dismissal of the country's
chief justice on March 9, a move that has sparked huge protests,
was designed to weaken the judiciary in case he wants to try to
change the constitution later this year.

