

Ethiopia's eastern region of Ogaden, where rebels have attacked a
Chinese oil prospection facility, has long been claimed by
neighbouring Somalia, and the conflict has given rise to
intermittent violence for decades.


The region coincides with Ethiopia's Somali National Regional
State, an administrative area that at 270,000 square kilometres
(107,000 square miles) is slightly smaller than Britain and has a
population of some four million.


Residents are mainly ethnic Somali and Muslim, whereas Ethiopia
is predominantly Christian. The Ethiopian government website
lists the main language as Somali.


Predominantly barren, the Ogaden has long been extremely poor,
but in recent years the discovery of gas and oil has brought both
hopes of wealth, and new causes of conflict.


For Ethiopia the conflict is one of several bitter territorial
disputes with neighbouring states.


The Ethiopian authorities have accused Eritrea, with which they
have a border conflict, of supporting the Ogaden separatists. The
Eritreans have denied the accusation.


Key events:


- 1964: Border war between Somalia, which has only recently
become independent, and Ethiopia. After a truce, a demilitarised
zone is set up along the border.


- 1977-78: The Somali regime of Mohamed Siad Barre launches a new
war against Ethiopia to seize the Ogaden. The Ethiopians, at the
time backed by the Soviet Union, repulse the attack.


- 1984: The Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF), which
claimed Tuesday's attack, is created. It considers Ethiopian
government forces to be an "army of occupation."


- 1991: Somalia collapses into civil war and chronic anarchy
following the fall of the Siad Barre regime.


- 1996: Ethiopia blames an Ogaden Islamist group, Al-Itihad Al-
Islam, for a bomb attack on a hotel in Addis Ababa. It sends
troops, tanks and helicopters into Somalia to strike the group's
bases.


- 1997: The Ethiopian government signs an agreement with
Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau to carry out seismic
exploration in Ethiopia.


- 1998-2004: Diplomatic efforts continue to try to resolve the
crisis in Somalia and create a functioning state. Ethiopia
systematically opposes any solution that would bring to power an
Islamist government.


- 2000: The latest of several famines in Somalia drives thousands
of refugees across the border into the Ogaden.


- 2002: Following the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United
States fears that Somalia, a predominantly Islamic country with
no government, may be becoming a haven for Al-Qaeda. It reaches
an agreement to base forces next door, in the former French
colony of Djibouti.


- 2003: Malaysia's state oil and gas company Petronas signs an
oil exploration and production agreement for Ogaden region with
the Ethiopian government.


- 2004: A provisional Somali government is set up in Nairobi. Due
to the continuing fighting it is unable to to enter the country.


- July 2006: An Islamic group manages to take power in the Somali
capital Mogadishu, causing alarm bells to ring in both Washington
and Addis Ababa. Islamists also seize towns near Somalia's
western border with the Ogaden region.


- April 2006: Addis Ababa says it has shortlisted two Indian
companies, Gail India Limited and the Gujarat State Petroleum
Corporation Limited, for exploration and development in Ogaden,
prompting the ONLF to warn them not to deal with the Ethiopian
government.


- Dec 2006: Ethiopia, with tacit support from the United States,
invades Somalia and ousts the Islamists from Mogadishu.


- March 2007: With attacks against the Ethiopians and their
Somali allies increasing, an African Union peacekeeping force
begins arriving in the shattered country.


- April 24: Ogaden separatists attack a Chinese seismic facility
that is prospecting for oil in the Ogaden, killing 74 people
including nine Chinese.

