

Business confidence in Germany continued to climb in April as the
booming German economy, the biggest in the 13-country eurozone,
was bolstered by international investment, a survey showed
Wednesday.


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, came as
Economy Minister Michael Glos raised the German economic growth
forecast for 2007 to 2.3 percent -- a sharp rise on the previous
prediction of 1.7 percent.


"The upturn is continuing, growth remains strong and the
situation in the labour market keeps getting better," Glos said.


The influential Ifo index rose to 108.6 points in April from
107.7 points in March, putting it just one-tenth of a point away
from the record score of 108.7 points recorded in December.


Analysts polled by news agency Thomson Financial had predicted a
far more modest surge, to 107.8 points.


"Germany is profiting from the extraordinary international
investment boom, which due to Germany's specialisation is having
a stronger cyclical impact than in the other major European
countries," Ifo President Hans-Werner Sinn said in a statement.


For its monthly survey, Ifo polls some 7,000 companies about
their assessment of current business and their expectations for
the next six months.


A breakdown of the data showed that the current sentiment sub-
index rose to 113.2 points in April from 112.4 points in March.


And the expectations sub-index also increased, rising to 104.3
points from 103.2 points, Ifo said.


Analysts said the data were further proof that the German economy
has weathered a steep hike in value-added tax this year.


On January 1, the government increased VAT by three full
percentage points to 19 percent, the biggest-ever single rise in
a move experts said would put the brakes on consumer spending and
therefore drag on overall growth.


The robust health of the economy is now expected to reduce public
debt and buoy the job market. The unemployment rate in March fell
to 9.8 percent.


Ifo said in retailing and wholesaling, the business climate had
also brightened noticeably in March with companies giving more
positive appraisals of both their current situation and their
six-month outlook.


Sentiment in the construction industry remained unchanged.


Elga Bartsch of Morgan Stanley said the fact the euro had hit a
two-year peak against the dollar had not hurt Germany's export-
driven economy.


"Notwithstanding the stronger euro, the Ifo Institute also
reported an improvement in the export expectations of German
manufacturers," Bartsch said.


"Of course, a considerable share of those exports would go to
other euro area countries. But, thus far, the mood amongst German
manufacturers seems to be defiant regarding the euro," she said,
adding that the strong single currency and a US slowdown could
leave "skid marks" in future.


Bank of America's Holger Schmieding said German companies had
helped lay the groundwork for the sharp economic upturn.


"With export expectations up according to an Ifo spokesman, it
shows that the severe slashing of costs that German corporates
had to do in the years since 2000 is paying off nicely," he said.


"German exports are competitive. So far, strong demand from Asia,
central and eastern Europe as well as the oil countries seems to
offset the rise in the euro and weaker US demand."


The sunny outlook in Germany would provide additional arguments
for the European Central Bank to continue raising its key
interest rates, analysts said.


"Along with rises in business confidence in Belgium and
Netherlands, the surveys released so far this month support our
view that the ECB will raise rates to 4.00 percent in June and
once again in to 4.25 percent by year-end," said Sunil Kapadia of
UBS Investment Research.

