

Iran's chief nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani arrived here
Wednesday for two days of talks on the Iranian nuclear programme
with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana, the Anatolia news
agency reported.


The Iranian official told reporters here that the talks with
Solana aimed to evaluate new ideas that might be put on the table
to end the stand-off over the Islamic state's nuclear ambitions,
the agency said.


Stressing that he did not know what sort of proposals might be
made, Larijani refused forecast the outcome of the Ankara talks.


Diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, told AFP Tuesday
that the United States, Europe, Russia and China were ready to
give Iran a chance to edge its way slowly into halting uranium
enrichment in a compromise gesture to get nuclear talks started.


Larijani recalled that he held several rounds of talks with
Solana in the past, and added: "But then, some unacceptable,
irrational conditions were put forward."


He said Tehran abided by the norms of the International Atomic
Energy Agency and described the current stand-off as "political."


The Iranian official is scheduled to meet Turkish Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan for lunch before talks with Solana at an
Ankara hotel later Wednesday.


Larijani and Solana are scheduled to meet Turkish Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul -- who has just been named the ruling party
candidate for the Turkish presidency -- at breakfast Thursday,
after which they are expected to make a joint statement.


The two men will also hold talks with Yigit Alpogan, the head of
the National Security Council, Turkey's top advisory board.


Iran's state-run IRNA news agency said Larijani was accompanied
by his deputy Javad Vaidi, Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi
and the deputy head of Iran's nuclear organisation, Mohammad
Saeedi.


Larijani and Solana will see if it is possible to reopen
negotiations seeking to end a five-year standoff that has raised
tensions between Iran and the West and seen Tehran slapped with
two sets of UN sanctions.


The pair held several rounds of talks last year that failed to
find a solution to the crisis. They last met face-to-face for
informal talks on the sidelines of a Munich security conference
on February 11.


Iran has dampened hopes of a breakthrough ahead of the talks by
insisting it has no intention of yielding to the West's key
demand to quit uranium enrichment.

