

Iraqi opinions hardened against a US plan to wall in a Baghdad
district Wednesday, with more street protests and Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki making clear his opposition to the project.


Maliki is on a tour of Iraq's Arab neighbours, and in his absence
Iraqi and US commanders have defended the building of a three-
mile (five-kilometre) barrier around the east Baghdad Sunni
enclave of Adhamiyah.


But the Shiite prime minister made his position clear.


"We said before coming here that it must stop and other measures
taken to protect people living in Adhamiyah. We will go back to
Baghdad and follow up the issue, God willing," he said in Kuwait,
before flying on to Oman.


US and Iraqi forces are engaged in a large-scale operation to
erect security barriers between many areas of Baghdad, and insist
this is simply a short term measure to protect residents from
bombers and death squads.


But last week, when the US military revealed a plan to surround a
Sunni district with a the barricade, anger erupted among
Baghdadis opposed to what they see as a plot to segregate the
capital.


The measure has already generated noisy street protests by
several hundred citizens from Adhamiyah, the Sunni district which
is to be enclosed by a ring of checkpoints and six-tonne (14,000
pound) concrete blocks.


On Wednesday, Shiite leaders called for a similar march in nearby
Sadr City, which ironically is one of the districts from which
militia fighters have launched attacks on Sunni civilians in
Adhamiyah.


Only a few score supporters of radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-
Sadr gathered, however, although organisers promised that more
were on their way.


"We not only reject the wall in Adhamiyah, but anywhere in Iraq,"
lawmaker Nassar al-Rubaie, the head of Sadr's parliamentary bloc,
told AFP by telephone.


"We think it's a first step to build something like the Berlin
Wall in order to fragment the sons of the Iraqi people after the
occupying forces failed to divide us psychologically," he
declared.


Since the beginning of the dispute, US and Iraqi commanders have
insisted that the walls and barriers are not designed to
segregate Sunnis from Shiites, but to prevent attacks by
sectarian gangs like Sadr's Mahdi Army.


"I would choose the term barrier," Admiral William Fallon, the US
commander in the Middle East, told reporters in the United Arab
Emirates on Tuesday.


"These are not walling off neighbourhoods. These are intended to
be barriers against suicide bombers to safeguard people," he
said.


Nevertheless, the April 17 US military statement which announced
the construction of the controversial wall -- which jokingly
dubbed it "The Great Wall of Adhamiyah" -- made clear that it
would follow a sectarian faultline.


"Sunnis inside the wall can take comfort knowing the added
security will prevent gangs of Shiite extremists from being able
to come into the area and target residents for extortion and
murder," it said.


"But the Shiite communities on the other side of the wall will
also benefit. When the wall is in place, Sunni terrorists will no
longer be able to use the neighbourhood as a staging point for
attacks against Shiites," it added.


US military press officers failed to respond to several requests
for comment Wednesday and did not answer their telephones.
Previously, they have said all barrier construction is carried
out in coordination with Iraqi commanders.


"We are concerned that this may cause certain neighbourhoods to
suffer. We are not security experts but do not see how it will
help the situation," said Said Arikat, spokesman for the United
Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq.


In the Shiite city of Najaf, Sadr's spokesman Ahmed Shibani --
who was freed in March after more than two years in US military
detention -- read a statement from his leader calling for
demonstrations.


"We, the sons of the Iraqi people, will defend Adhamiyah as long
as we can, as well as defending the other regions that they want
to isolate from us," Sadr declared, according to the statement.


"We will stand hand-in-hand to demonstrate with the people of
Adhamiyah."


The position of Maliki's government on the wall has been a matter
of some confusion in Baghdad. At the weekend, asked about the
Adhamiyah barricade by reporters in Egypt, he condemned it.


"I am opposed to the building of the wall and its construction is
going to stop," he told a press conference.


Since then, Maliki has continued a tour of the region and
officials left behind in Baghdad have not been able to confirm or
clarify his comments, until Wednesday's comment in Kuwait,
renewing his opposition.


On Monday, the spokesman for Iraqi forces engaged alongside their
US allies in the Baghdad security plan had insisted Maliki had
been referring to false reports that the wall was 12 metres high.


"We will continue to construct security barriers in Adhamiyah
neighbourhood," said Brigadier General Qassim Atta.


Abdul-Mahdi al-Mutairi, a Sadr supporter in Sadr City, said: "The
stand of the government is shaken and hesitant. They are confused
between the demands of the occupier and the demands of the
people."

