

The Basque town of Guernica will mark the 70th anniversary on
Thursday of its destruction by German warplanes backing the
right-wing forces of General Francisco Franco during Spain's
Civil War.


A Mass, concert and wreath-laying ceremony for the those who died
in the attack by the Nazi's Condor Legion aircraft which killed
hundreds and leveled three- quarters of the town on Arpil 26,
1937 are planned, local officials said.


In addition a declaration called "Guernica for Peace" will be
read in various languages in the presence of representatives of
other cities destroyed in war such as Hiroshima in Japan and
Dresden in Germany.


Adolfo Perez Esquivel, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1980 for
his resistance to Argentina's Dirty War against leftist rebels,
is also scheduled to attend the event in Guernica, a town of some
16,000 people.


Ahead of the commemorations Basque regional president Juan Jose
Ibarretxe demanded that the central government in Madrid
apologise to the Basque people for the attack and condemn
Franco's dictatorship.


Franco ruled Spain with an iron fist after the three-year civil
war which ended in 1939. Some half a million people died in the
conflict. Franco ruled until his death in 1975.


Most historians believe Guernica was targetted by Franco because
it is a centre of Basque nationalism and cultural traditions.


The town was once home to an oak tree which Spanish kings would
stand beneath and vow to respect an ancient code giving the
independent-minded Basques special rights.


The tree survived the bombing but died during a heatwave in 2003
and was replaced two years later.


Thursday's anniversary has also led to renewed calls for
Picasso's painting "Guernica", which was inspired by the attack,
to be put on display in the town.


The black and white oil painting has been on display at the Reina
Sofia modern art museum in Madrid since 1992.


Museum directors and the central government in Madrid turned down
the request, saying the painting is to fragile to be moved.


Basque government officials said they would now try to have the
painting moved to Guernica in time for the 75th anniversary of
the attack.

