

Celtic captain Neil Lennon said Wednesday that he will leave the
club at the end of the season.


The 35-year-old's contract expires this summer and he had been
expected to hold talks with a view to extending his stay.


But the Scottish Cup final against Dunfermline on May 26 is now
set to be his last match for the club.


"Obviously having been with the club for so long, it will be a
real wrench to leave, but I have thought long and hard about this
decision and believe that it is the right one," said Lennon.


"I feel it is right to go out on a high and given that we have
just secured the league title for the second year running, I
believe that this is the best decision at the best time."


Lennon joined Celtic from Leicester in December 2000, costing
5.75 million pounds as he teamed up with former Foxes boss Martin
O'Neill at Parkhead.


This season's Premier League title was his fifth since moving
north of the border, with Celtic the dominant force in the
Scottish game during his six- and-a-half seasons at the club.


The former Northern Ireland international has been the protective
shield in midfield during the era of sustained success, the like
of which Celtic had not known since the early 1970s.


He has not retired from playing, and could seek a new club in
England, having rejected overtures to move to the United States
or Canada to play.


Current Celtic boss Gordon Strachan said: "Neil has been a
tremendous asset to Celtic and a great help to me since I came to
the club.


"He is a true competitor and has always been a good team-mate,
which I'm sure every player here now, or who has played alongside
him in the past, would confirm.


"We fully respect his decision and I understand fully that he
feels the end of the season is the right time to leave the club.


"He has been vital to our success, winning two league
championships in a row and the CIS Cup, as well as reaching this
season's Scottish Cup final.


"And to captain Celtic as the club reached the last 16 of the
Champions League for the first time was also a tremendous
achievement."

