

Golf legend Jack Nicklaus said Wednesday that Asia will drive
future growth of the game as it gains in popularity throughout
the region and Asian players continue to improve.


"The Asian Tour will continue to grow and Asian players will
continue to get better," Nicklaus said a day before tee-off at
the 500,000 dollar Pine Valley Beijing Open.


"Asia is the place where the most growth will come from and there
will be more young players being introduced to the game here than
in any other place by comparison to what we have seen in the
past."


"I have seen a lot more good (Asian) players now than from the
time when I was playing.... it just shows that the game is going
to continue to grow in Asia. It's not going to stop."


Golf is expanding particularly rapidly in China as the country's
dramatic economic growth allows more time for leisure pursuits.


After formally opening the second of two golf courses he designed
at Pine Valley, the 18-time Major winner said it was only a
matter of time before Chinese players' names are seen on the
leader boards of major world tournaments.


"There's no question. There are a great number of people (in
China) who will play golf, and there will be many golfers from
China that will be very successful on the world tour," said
Nicklaus, who at 67 no longer competes.


Nicklaus said the sport's physical requirements bode well for
Chinese players.


"There have been many good Chinese athletes in every sport and
golf is probably a very, very good sport for the Chinese in terms
of stature and size. Golf depends more on quickness than on
size," he said.


"There's no real reason why (Chinese athletes) won't do well on
the golf course. It will just take time for the game to develop
in this country and bring along the young people."


Golf's growth in China has generated controversy, however.


Moves to introduce golf curriculum in government-funded
universities have drawn harsh criticism as the sport was seen as
an expensive pursuit still well out of the range of the vast
majority of the country's people.

