

A UN Security Council delegation arrived in Brussels on Wednesday
on a five-day mission to discuss plans for the future of Kosovo
that have come under the threat of a Russian veto.


The 15 UN ambassadors were to leave Brussels in the afternoon to
travel on to Belgrade and then Pristina -- the capital of the
breakaway Serbian province, for which UN special envoy Martti
Ahtisaari has recommended supervised independence.


Ahtisaari's proposal is staunchly opposed by both Belgrade and
Moscow, which said Tuesday it would veto any UN Security Council
approval of the plan.


With EU foreign affairs chief Javier Solana in Turkey for talks
with Iran's nuclear negotiator, the 15 ambassadors met here with
the EU representative on Kosovo, Stefan Lehne, and EU Enlargement
Commissioner Olli Rehn.


"We'll have in-depth briefing both about the European dimension
and NATO dimensions of the Kosovo issue," said Belgium's UN
ambassador Johan Verbeke as he entered the meetings.


On the delegation's upcoming trip to the Serbian capital and
Kosovo itself, Indonesian ambassador Hasan Kleib said: "We have
to see the feeling of Serbians as well as Kosovars".


Indonesia has yet to take a formal position on the Ahtisaari plan
and Kleib said it was crucial to see the situation "in the
field".


Kosovo has been run by a UN mission under Resolution 1244, which
was passed by the Council in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped
to end a bloody Serbian crackdown on the province's majority
ethnic Albanians.


Belgrade hopes Russia and China will use their veto powers to
block any new resolution that would strip Serbia of sovereignty
over the province it sees as the country's historic heartland.


Such a resolution would enable Kosovo's ethnic Albanian-dominated
parliament to declare independence, which would in turn be
recognised by countries that support it.


"There is within NATO a shared view that the Alliance supports
the Ahtisaari proposals," said NATO spokesman James Appathurai,
adding that the UN mission was "important and timely".


The NATO Secretary General will offer NATO's vision of "how they
see the alliance supporting the political process," he added.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is expected to press
Russia on its opposition to Kosov's independence when she visits
Moscow next month.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said it was well known
that the Russian government has "some real reservations" about
Ahtisaari's plan and added that Rice would hold "extended
discussions" on the issue with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov during her visit in mid-May.

