

Hundreds of saffron-robed monks led nine elephants in a march on
Thailand's parliament Wednesday, demanding that Buddhism be
declared the kingdom's official religion.


The march came one day before the military-appointed drafters of
Thailand's new constitution were set to meet at the parliament
building.


The monks planned to spend the night outside the building and to
petition the drafters on Thursday, organisers said.


"Our only demand is to have the clause 'Buddhism is Thailand's
national religion' included in the new constitution. It's the
opinion of the majority of Thais," Tongkhao Phuangrodpang, a
coordinator of 300 Buddhist advocacy groups, told AFP.


Some 2,500 monks and their supporters had gathered outside the
building by early afternoon, awaiting the arrival of the marching
elephants.


Bangkok's police had urged the monks not to bring the elephants
into the city, for fear of causing traffic accidents or that the
scorching heat would irritate the elephants and spark a rampage.


After the march began, police relented and allowed the monks to
lead the elephants through the streets.


The military, which seized power in a coup in September, has
appointed a panel to write a new charter for Thailand. The first
draft was released last week for a period of consultation, before
going to the public in a referendum in September.


The draft made no mention of a national religion, but army-
installed Prime Minister Surayud Chalanont said Wednesday that
his government would consider the monks' demands.


"There is room for discussion. The government will listen to
people's opinions, and pass them to the Constitutional Drafting
Committee," said Surayud.


The junta has also said it would not object to naming Buddhism as
the state religion. Some 95 percent of Thais are Buddhist.


Critics of the proposal warn that naming a national religion
could inflame tensions in the Muslim-majority south of Thailand,
where a separatist insurgency has raged for three years.

