

Commonwealth Secretary-General Don McKinnon said Wednesday the
grouping was keeping watch on Pakistan for signs of democratic
progress ahead of a year-end deadline for change.


Pakistan was suspended from the 53-nation grouping after then
army chief Pervez Musharraf seized power in a military coup in
1999.


Pakistan was reinstated five years later in May 2004 after
intense lobbying, with the Commonwealth noting progress in
restoring democracy.


But McKinnon said Commonwealth leaders were watching reforms in
Pakistan and had earmarked an end-2007 deadline for Musharraf to
stop holding dual posts as president and army chief.


"Pakistan is no longer suspended, but it still remains on the
agenda," McKinnon, in Malaysia as part of a regional tour, told
AFP in an interview.


Commonwealth leaders have noted Musharraf has "done a lot to
bring a degree of normalcy and democracy back to the country," he
said, citing increased participation by women and minority groups
in parliament.


"But the one thing that they were concerned about was that
President Musharraf was still holding the office of president and
operational commander of the armed forces," he said.


"By the end of this year, they would expect him to divide those
two offices," he said.


Pakistan's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz Monday said Musharraf
would be re-elected as president for a second five-year term by
the parliament in September or October before it is dissolved
ahead of general elections.


He also said Musharraf -- who promised to shed his uniform at the
end of 2004 but then reneged -- would himself decide when to step
down as army chief.


McKinnon would not say if the Commonwealth would consider another
suspension for Pakistan if Musharraf did not make the end-2007
deadline, but signalled the grouping would take the matter
seriously.


"Commonwealth leaders will not be very happy, I can put it that
way, if that decision is not dealt with," he said.


He said Pakistan, which had bitterly criticised its suspension,
was "keen to maintain their status in the Commonwealth" and that
the country had willingly worked with the grouping.


"We do recognise that Pakistan does have more problems than just
its relationship with the Commonwealth. That is recognised,"
McKinnon said.


"But on the other hand, the Commonwealth does have certain
ideals, certain criteria, which we expect nations to maintain,"
he said.

