

Indian President Abdul Kalam, in an address to the European
parliament Wednesday, called for stronger ties with the EU,
particularly on the environment and in technology.


Kalam, who received a warm welcome from the assembled Euro MPs in
their Strasbourg chamber, stressed the similarities and links
between multi-language, multi-culture and multi-religious India
and the European Union.


The links have matured into "a very strong bond through a
sustained trade and intellectually satisfying collaboration in
many areas of science and technology," he said.


He suggested the setting up of an "Indo-EU Renewable Energy
Development programme" for advanced research and development in
renewable energy "leading to the availability of commercial class
large scale power plants within the next decade".


His other initiative to the MEPs was the "evolution of a World
Knowledge Platform for bringing together the core competence of
the multiple nations of EU and India in science and technology".


Such an initiative, Kalam said, would in part help towards the
convergence of bio-, nano- and information technology "expected
to touch every area of concern to humanity".


He called it "a meeting place for science, technology, industry,
management and marketing".


"The European Union represents a wealth of scientific potential
with rich culture for research," he told MEPs.


"India has emerged as a leading country with its demonstrated
scientific and technological potential in many societal missions
and is now in the growth path," he added.


"Combined strengths of the nations can be utilized for the mutual
advantage of both India and EU by joining together as partners in
creating the world knowledge platform.


The Indian leader's keen interest in the environment, energy and
technology is in part driven by the fact that India has 17
percent of the world's population but just 0.8 percent of the
world's known oil and natural gas resources.


Energy independence has got to be achieved through renewable
sources, electrical power from nuclear energy and bio-fuel, he
said.

