

Derby strengthened their position at the top of the Championship
with a 2-1 win at Barnsley on Saturday.


Billy Davies's side are three points clear of second-placed
Sunderland after goals from David Jones and Matt Oakley put the
Rams in control.


Sam Togwell got one back for Barnsley, but they were more
concerned about a serious injury suffered by goalkeeper David
Lucas, who was taken to hospital after being knocked out in a
collision that led to Derby's second goal.


Jones opened the scoring in the 11th minute when he tapped-in
after Lucas had parried a Giles Barnes shot.


Then Lucas suffered his injury when Barnes clattered into him in
the 43rd minute and Oakley scrambled home as the keeper slumped
to the turf. Togwell's last minute strike gave Derby a few nerves
but they held on.


Sunderland moved into the automatic promotion places with a 1-0
win at Cardiff that came courtesy of Ross Wallace's superb goal.


Wallace, who come on as a second half substitute, struck in the
72nd minute with a curling free-kick to give Roy Keane's team
their tenth win in 13 games.


Sunderland can be passed by Birmingham on Sunday if the Blues
beat Coventry, but their impressive unbeaten run has ensured they
are firmly in the race for a top- two finish.


West Bromwich Albion got their promotion bid back on track as
they won 2-1 at struggling QPR - their first victory in six
matches.


Kevin Phillips had opened the scoring for Tony Mowbray's side in
the 48th minute when he slotted home Jason Koumas's pass. Dexter
Blackstock equalised 15 minutes later and Albion keeper Dean
Kiely then saved Paul Furlong's penalty before Zoltan Gera won it
with a close range volley in the 84th minute.


Southampton produced one of the performances of the Championship
season as they closed the gap on play-off rivals Wolverhampton
with a 6-0 demolition of Mick McCarthy's team at Molineux.


Saints, who were missing eight first team regulars, are just
three points outside the top six after Marek Saganowski hit a
hat-trick. Leon Best and Andrew Surman also scored, while Gary
Breen's own goal added to the hosts' misery.


Dean Windass hit a hat-trick as Hull boosted their survival hopes
with a 4-0 thrashing of relegation rivals Southend at the KC
Stadium.


Phil Brown's side are now five points clear of the drop zone
thanks to Windass's treble and a late Sam Ricketts strike.


Southend remain in the bottom three, along with Leeds - who beat
Preston 2-1 on Friday, and Luton, who held Burnley to a goalless
draw.

