

Iraqi officials disagreed on Saturday over the death toll in a
massive suicide truck bomb attack on Shiites in a northern town
that sparked the revenge killing of dozens of Sunnis, allegedly
by police.


Senior interior ministry official Brigadier General Abdel Karim
Khalif told a news conference that 152 people were killed on
Tuesday and another 347 were wounded when a truck packed with
flour supplies and explosives blew up.


"The martyrs from the truck bomb were 152. The truck was searched
by the army. They didn't find the explosives because they were
under the flour.


"The explosion left a 23-metre (76-foot) hole in the ground. That
means at least two tonnes of explosives were used," Khalaf said.


But speaking to reporters in Baghdad via video-link, Tal Afar
mayor Najim Abdallah slammed that toll as inflated out of
proportion, although he admitted that the number of dead may yet
rise to 120.


"The death toll which we have from the local hospital is 83 dead
in the bombing and 191 wounded. It may rise to 110 or 120... due
to the severity of the explosion as some bodies were blown into
pieces," he said.


"Those figures are blown out of proportion. The reality is that
we are still in the middle of clearing the rubble at the site of
the explosion and some bodies may still be buried. I have no idea
why there is a discrepancy."


Officials from the Shiite-led interior ministry have been
appointed by Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, along with colleagues
from the defence ministry, to investigate both the bombing and
the reprisal killings.


Lieutenant Colonel Malcolm Frost, commander of US forces in Tal
Afar, also brushed aside the interior ministry figures saying:
"There could be a double count somewhere."


Khalaf said that after the bombing, 18 policemen and two
civilians went to a Sunni area and killed 47 people to avenge the
deaths of relatives -- a lower toll than the 70 deaths initially
reported by medics on the scene.


Abdullah broadly agreed with that figure, confirming that 45
Sunnis had died.


Khalaf said 16 policemen and two civilians have been rearrested
in connection with the shooting rampage after being initially
released to mourn their Shiite relatives.


The Tal Afar killings were the worst incident of communal
bloodletting in recent months in Iraq and since US President
George W. Bush last March hailed the town as a model for
coalition efforts to build a new Iraq.


The Baghdad government, which has been accused of being at least
complicit in sectarian violence, has vowed that the culprits in
the revenge shootings will be put on trial, and has ordered
interior and defence ministry officials to investigate the
violence.

