

German Chancellor Angela Merkel arrived in Israel on Saturday on
the second leg of her Middle East tour aimed at putting the EU's
weight behind efforts to revive the stalled Middle East peace
process.


Merkel, whose country holds the EU's rotating presidency, was
welcomed by Israeli Welfare Minister Isaac Herzog at Ben Gurion
Airport as she arrived from neighbouring Jordan where she held
talks with King Abdullah II.


"I have arrived with optimism and I am looking forward to holding
successful talks as I come with a hope to mark some diplomatic
progress in the region," Merkel was quoted by an Israeli official
as saying upon landing.


Herzog was quoted as telling the German chancellor that "we hope
your visit will play a central role in moves which would lead to
a breakthrough in the region which is so important to our
regions."


Merkel headed to Jerusalem for the first of two meetings with
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on her second tour of the region this
year, a German official said.


On Sunday, Merkel will hold a breakfast meeting with Foreign
Minister Tzipi Livni before visiting the Yad Vashem Holocaust
Memorial museum. She will later receive an honorary doctorate
from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.


The 52-year-old chancellor will also travel to the West Bank city
of Ramallah for talks with Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas,
whose moderate Fatah movement has entered a power-sharing
government with the radical Hamas movement, which the EU
considers a terrorist movement.


The chancellor's tour comes hot on the heels of last week's Arab
summit in Riyadh where ministers decided to relaunch a five-year-
old peace plan that has been rejected by Israel as it stands but
seen as a possible starting point.


At a news conference following their meeting in Jordan, King
Abdullah said they had talked "first and foremost about the need
to build on the momentum of the Arab summit to move the Arab
peace initiative forward."


Merkel said on Friday that the Arab League agreement had "created
a lot of movement" in the region but warned against over-
optimism, saying a "very difficult path" lay ahead.


The Arab proposal, offering Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war,
allows for the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israel welcomed the prospect of dialogue with moderate Arab
states, but fell short of endorsing the document, even as Olmert
said it reflected a "revolutionary change" in Arab thinking.


Merkel will carry an uncompromising message to Abbas on behalf of
Europe that unless the new Palestinian unity government
implements the conditions laid down by the Quartet on the Middle
East, the international community will not work with it.


The Hamas-led government has refused to meet demands set by the
Quartet -- the EU, the United States, Russia and the United
Nations -- to renounce violence, recognise Israel and abide by
past peace accords.


While Merkel took Europe's message to the Middle East, EU foreign
ministers agreed at talks in Germany to lend their full support
to the Arab initiative and work with non-Hamas members of the
government.


"The moment in which we are living is a moment of a certain
hope," EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said in Bremen.


The ministers also supported a call by Solana to organise
meetings between the international Quartet and an Arab Quartet of
Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Jordan, the
spokeswoman said.


Merkel's trip follows recent visits to the region by US Secretary
of State Condoleezza Rice and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


Merkel will wrap up her three-day tour in Lebanon.

