

Serena Williams stormed back from a set down to triumph 0-6, 7-5,
6-3 over world No. 1 Justine Henin here Saturday to claim her
fourth career title in the 6.9 million-dollar Sony Ericsson Open.


"It's just not in me to give up," said Williams, who showed a
steely resolve in saving two match points in the 10th game of the
second set.


Playing her first tournament since her improbable Australian Open
triumph in January, Williams broke Henin in the 12th game of the
second set to force the deciding third set.


This time it was Williams who took charge, breaking Henin in the
second game en route to a 3-0 lead.


Henin put the set back on serve with a break in the fifth game,
but Williams broke again for a 5-3 lead and a chance to serve for
the match.


But inconsistency struck the American again, and she was quickly
in a 0-40 hole. She battled back, with two stinging backhands and
a service winner, and took the match with a line-kissing second
serve on her first match point.


Williams said she had no concrete explanation for her ability to
hang on.


"I don't know. I'm definitely not a fearless individual," she
said. "I feel like when I get down, a part of me just plays
better, and I think all champions have that, when they get down,
you can't hold them down. I just think, OK, it's not over, I've
got to play better."


Williams, whose Australian Open title was her eighth Grand Slam
triumph, added the title to the Miami crowns she won in 2002,
2003 and 2004.


"When I play well, there aren't many players who can beat me,"
said Williams, who is poised to rise again in the rankings next
week.


After a season of injury and distractions, she had fallen out of
the top 100.


"I can only go up," Williams said. "I have no points to defend
until Cincinnati, and I didn't do well at all at the Open. I'm
just playing with a no lose attitude. It's fun. I feel like
wherever I go, even if I only win a round, I've gained points."


Certainly Williams's 2007 form has shown she belongs among the
world's elite. She thrashed then world No. 1 Maria Sharapova in
the Australian Open final, and won the rematch here in the
quarter-finals.


Henin, who overtook Sharapova atop the world rankings on Monday,
had arrived in Miami buoyed by tournament victories in Dubai and
Qatar.


The 24-year-old, who skipped the Australian Open in January
because of personal troubles, had never made it past the quarter-
finals here, but appeared poised to make the most of her first
finals appearance when she raced through the seven games of the
match.


Williams failed to muster even a game point on her own serve
until the fifth game of the first set, but Henin held firm to get
the break and serve for the set.


A forehand wide on her first set point was the first noticeable
miscue from the Belgian, and Williams dug in to save two more set
points before Henin closed the deal.


Williams finally won a game when she broke Henin to level the
second set at 1-1. But she couldn't find the consistency she
needed, and after a further exchange of breaks Henin served for
the match at 5-4.


With nothing to lose, Williams gamely fought off two match points
to break Henin, held her own serve to love and broke again.


"I was playing a good game, I was really aggressive, but when I
had to close the match I got maybe tense a little bit," Henin
said. "And Serena is a fighter, she never gives up. She proved it
on the match points, because she took her chances at the time,
she played really aggressive. She played better than me on the
important points."


Williams had not played Henin since a straight-sets victory in
the Wimbledon semi-final in 2003. She now holds a 6-3 edge in the
all-time series.


In the ATP Masters Series men's final on Sunday, unseeded
Guillermo Canas of Argentina will face 10th-seeded teen Novak
Djokovic of Serbia.

