

Iran's Revolutionary Guards, who seized 15 British sailors and
marines last week, are the country's ideological soldiers,
charged with protecting it from internal and external threats.


Western estimates put the strength of the force, known as Sepah-
eh Pasdaran in Farsi, at around 350,000.


The Guards were formed on May 5, 1979, following the official
declaration of the Islamic republic by its founder, Ayatollah
Rudollah Khomeini.


They come under the direct control of Iran's supreme leader,
currently Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who also appoints their
commanders.


From 1980 to 1988 they played a prominent role in the eight-year
war with Iran's neighbour, Iraq.


The same force was responsible for holding eight British sailors
for three days in 2004.


The Revolutionary Guards have the best available military
hardware -- from the Shab-3 missile capable of reaching Israel to
the Russian-made TOR-M1 air defence system to protect the
country's nuclear sites.


They have staged a series of military manoeuvres this year,
notably in the Gulf, testing missiles capable of hitting all
countries in the region.


The political arm of the Pasdaran is as strong as its military
one.


Such leading politicians as President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad,
security chief Ali Larijani and Tehran Mayor Mohammad Bagher
Ghalibaf have all served in its ranks.


UN Security Council sanctions on Tehran for its continued refusal
to freeze uranium enrichment -- centring on Western concerns Iran
may be seeking to make atomic weapons -- block all Iranian arms
exports and freeze the overseas assets of officials and
institutions linked to the country's nuclear and ballistic
missile programmes.


Several high-ranking Pasdaran chiefs are among those targeted by
the sanctions.


Washington accuses the Revolutionary Guards' Quds Army branch of
aiding Shiite rebels in Iraq, which Tehran denies.


In January, US forces raided an Iranian government office in the
northern Iraqi city of Arbil and arrested five employees,
accusing them of having links to the Pasdaran and supporting the
insurgency in Iraq.


Iran's opponents also say the Guards were responsible for
creating Hezbollah in Lebanon.


The Revolutionary Guards play a prime role in policing Iran's
borders, with the most sensitive areas under their direct
control.


They are also tasked with fighting armed opposition groups
through the Basij Islamist militia, a 10-million-strong forced
armed and trained by the Pasdaran.


In February, the Revolutionary Guards fought rebel Kurds in
Iran's West Azarbaijan province, on the borders with Iraq and
Turkey, in clashes that killed more than 50 people.


The same month a booby-trap car bomb targeted a bus full of
Pasdaran at Zahedan, the main town in Sistan-Baluchistan province
on the frontier with Pakistan. Thirteen Revolutionary Guards were
killed.

