

Bayern Munich kept their dreams of a 21st Bundesliga title alive
with a 2-0 win at league-leaders Schalke 04 on Saturday to leave
the German giants six points from the top.


Bayern took the lead after just three minutes when a well-timed
pass in from the left from Bastian Schweinsteiger to the feet of
striker Roy Maakay gave the Dutchman just enough time to hit his
shot past Schalke keeper Manuel Neuer.


It was Maakay's 100th goal for the club, and one of his most
valuable, until Bosnian midfielder Hasan Salihamidzic made the
result safe with lethal finishing to smash defender Lucio's cross
past Neuer on 78 minutes.


The win keeps Bayern in fourth, but leaves Schalke just two
points ahead of second-placed Werder Bremen, who missed the
chance to go level with a 0-0 draw at Energie Cottbus.


At home to Alemannia Aachen, third-placed Stuttgart VfB took an
early lead when Swiss striker Marco Streller powered his header
just past the despairing finger tips of diving goalkeeper Stephan
Straub after 29 minutes.


Aachen got back on level terms after the break when Zambian
defender Moses Sichone put his header just out of reach of
Stuttgart's goalkeeper Timo Hildebrand to make it 1-1 on 59
minutes.


But Stuttgart made sure of the win in as first Benjamin Lauth
chipped the keeper on 75 minutes before Brazilian striker Cacau
scored an almost identical goal in the 84th minute to seal the
3-1 win.


The win leaves them just two points behind Bremen and four points
away from Schalke.


Eintracht Frankfurt defender Sotirios Kyrgiakos gave his side an
early 1-0 lead over bottom-side Borussia Moenchengladbach after
11 minutes, but battling Borussia picked up a priceless point
thanks to Federico Insua.


The draw keeps them bottom, but they are now only four points
from safety.


Czech midfielder Tomas Galasek volleyed Nuremberg into an early
lead at home to Hertha Berlin in the 15th minute and the home
side extended their lead when midfielder Marco Engelhardt drove
home his shot eight metres out on the hour.


Berlin gave themselves a life-line when Argentinian striker
Christian Gimenez scored on 69 minutes, but still went down 2-1.
Two quick goals fired Bayer Leverkusen into an early 2-0 lead
away at Mainz 05.


After German international midfielder Bernd Schneider made a huge
dent in the Mainz defence, his inch-perfect pass to Sergej
Barbarez allowed the Bosnian striker to headed his shot home on
42 minutes.


And the 25-year-old scored again three minutes later on the
stroke of half-time when he followed a shot up from Simon Rolfes
- fresh from making his debut for Germany in midweek - to slide
the ball home.


Schneider smashed his free-kick past Mainz keeper Dino Wache on
52 minutes before Mainz grabbed a consolation goal through
Egyptian striker Mohamed Zidan with 15 minutes to go to make it
3-1.


Arminia Bielfeld lifted themselves out of the relegation zone on
Friday night with a 1-0 win over Borussia Dortmund who took their
place in the bottom three.

