

Manchester United came from behind against Blackburn to keep
their Premiership title drive firmly on track with a 4-1 win at
Old Trafford on Saturday.


A Matt Derbyshire strike had given Blackburn a half-time lead but
Sir Alex Ferguson's men produced an irresistible display of their
championship credentials after the break.


After a superb solo equaliser from Paul Scholes just after the
hour, goals from Michael Carrick, Park Ji-sung and substitute Ole
Gunnar Solskjaer secured a win that extended United's lead over
Chelsea to nine points ahead of the champions' early evening
match against bottom side Watford.


With only seven matches left to play, United's win will have
further reduced the odds on them reclaiming the title for the
first time since 2003.


But the celebrations were dampened by the loss of Serbian
defender Nemanja Vidic who had to be stretchered off with a
suspected fracture of his collar bone -- an injury which could
rule him out for the rest of the season and upset the defensive
solidity on which United's challenge for league, cup and
Champions League silverware has been based.


Elsewhere on Saturday, a classic hat-trick by Peter Crouch helped
Liverpool crush Arsenal 4-1 at Anfield and leapfrog their London
rivals into third place in the table.


The giant England striker scored well-taken goals with both feet
either side of a powerful header as the Gunners surrendered
tamely at Anfield.


Danish centreback Daniel Agger was also on the scoreline for
Liverpool with William Gallas finding the net for the visitors.


There was further good news for the Anfield faithful when George
Gillett, one of the club's new American owners, indicated that he
would not bow to pressure from local politicians for Liverpool's
planned new stadium to be shared with rivals Everton.


Arsenal's defeat offered Bolton fresh hope that they could yet
claim fourth spot in the table and a place in the final
qualifying round for next season's Champions League.


Kevin Davies scored ten minutes from time to earn Sam Allardyce's
side a 1-0 win over Sheffield Utd, who ended the afternoon just
one point above the relegation zone.


Charlton's battle for survival continued to gather momentum with
a 1-0 win over fellow strugglers Wigan that came courtesy of an
86th-minute penalty from England striker Darren Bent.


Alan Pardew's side are now unbeaten in four games and look
capable of overhauling both Sheffield United and Wigan.


Manchester City's fears of being dragged into the relegation
battle were eased by a 1-0 win at Newcastle. Belgium striker
Emile Mpenza scored the goal that allowed Stuart Pearce's side to
maintain a six-point cushion between them and the bottom three.


West Ham's faint hopes of avoiding relegation were given a shot
in the arm with a 2-0 home win over Middlesbrough, although Alan
Curbishley's side remain five points adrift of safety with seven
matches to play.


Argentina forward Carlos Tevez was the Hammers' hero once more,
setting up Bobby Zamora for a second-minute opener before making
the win safe by hitting the net himself just before half-time.


Portsmouth's push for European football suffered a setback when
Ian Pearce snatched a last-minute equaliser for Fulham after
Croatian midfielder Niko Kranjcar had given the visitors the lead
at Craven Cottage.

