

Defending champions the Canterbury Crusaders held off a desperate
challenge from the New South Wales Waratahs to clinch their Super
14 rugby match 34-33 here on Saturday.


The Crusaders scored six tries to four but an
uncharacteristically off night from fly-half Stephen Brett, who
only kicked two conversions from six attempts, allowed the
Waratahs into the game.


New South Wales could even have won the match when they closed to
within one point thanks to a Tatafu Polota-Nau try with just 10
minutes remaining.


But Peter Hewat seemed to rush a straightforward kick at goal and
pushed the ball just wide.


A close result looked unlikely during the first half as the
Crusaders ran the home side ragged, with a combination of
bruising forward play and spectacular ball control.


They opened the scoring after only three minutes when loosehead
prop Campbell Johnstone crashed over out wide. Brett converted
from the sideline to put the Crusaders ahead 7-0.


New South Wales hit back when 19-year-old winger Lachlan Turner
scored a spectacular 60-metre solo try, brushing off four
defenders as he raced away to score in the corner.


But that only seemed to stir the Crusaders, as Rico Gear, Mose
Tuiali'i and Aaron Mauger crossed to underline the dominance of
the All Black-stacked Canterbury outfit.


Brett's woeful goalkicking threatened to keep the Waratahs in the
game, and they dutifully punished him as replacement back Sam
Harris crashed over three minutes from halftime. Hewat converted
and then booted a long-range penalty on the stroke of halftime to
send the Waratahs into the break 22-15 down.


Hewat kicked a penalty three minutes after the resumption and the
Waratahs hit the front for the first time soon after when fly-
half Sam Norton-Knight crossed under the posts to give his side a
25-22 lead.


The Crusaders struck back when centre Casey Laulala crossed and
Gear scored his second to seemingly put the game beyond the
Waratahs' reach.


But another long-range Hewat penalty moved the Waratahs closer
and when replacement hooker Polota-Nau capitalised on a bruising
Lote Tuqiri break to cross out wide, the game was thrown wide
open.


The match was so close that when the whistle blew for full time
with the Crusaders camped on the Waratahs' tryline, visiting
skipper Richie McCaw thought they had lost.


"I couldn't work out what the score was - I thought it was one
point to them and I couldn't work out why we kicked it out (to
finish the game)," McCaw said.


"The Waratahs played hard tonight, but we expected it, and we got
one hell of a game."


McCaw said it was disappointing the way the Crusaders had eased
off after going to a four try to one lead and they had almost
paid a heavy price for complacency.


The win moves the Crusaders to second, five points behind the
Auckland Blues, while the Waratahs remain second from bottom
despite picking up two bonus points.

