

US President George W. Bush on Saturday branded Iran's seizure of
15 British navy personnel nine days ago "inexcusable behavior"
and demanded their release.


But in his first comments on the matter since the sailors and
marines were captured in the Gulf, Bush rejected any "quid pro
quos" such as an exchange of the Britons for five Iranians seized
by US forces in Iraq in January.


"It's inexcusable behavior and I strongly support the (British
Prime Minister Tony) Blair government's attempts to resolve this
peacefully," Bush said of the crisis which erupted when Iran
captured the 14 men and one woman in what it says was Iranian
waters.


"I support the (British) prime minister when he made it clear
there were no quid pro quos," Bush said in a press conference at
his Camp David, Maryland country retreat.


"The Iranians must give back the hostages. They are innocent.
They did nothing wrong," he said, adding that it was a "serious
issue because the Iranians took these people out of Iraqi
waters."


Earlier, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad again called for
Britain to apologize, the state news agency IRNA reported.


"The arrogant issue statements and issue demands against the
Iranian people, instead of apologizing and expressing regret over
the British sailors entering Iranian waters," he said.


Tehran also warned against any "politicization" of the seizure,
saying it had begun legal proceedings against the sailors for
illegally entering Iranian waters but denying reports of a trial.


Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to release the naval
personnel, who are being held in a secret location and
occasionally put on television allegedly confessing to and
apologizing for their transgressions.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but Iran says they were in its
territorial waters.


The Iranian foreign ministry said a British diplomatic note it
had received from London in response to its formal protest over
the sailors' alleged entry into its waters contained "different
points which could be examined."


However, the ministry added that Tehran awaited a "balanced"
attitude from London.


"We are awaiting a correction of attitude on Britain's part," the
ministry said.


Iranian media also quoted Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki as
telling his Australian counterpart, Alexander Downer, by
telephone that "British leaders should avoid media storms and
politicization to prevent a further complication of the affair."


Amid the public war of words, quiet diplomacy continued, with
British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett confirming her
ministry had received a diplomatic note from Tehran and responded
to it, without elaborating.


But she also accused Iran of "sabre-rattling" over a possible
trial.


"I think everyone regrets that this position has arisen. What we
want is a way out of it, we want it peacefully and we want it as
soon as possible," Beckett said after the meeting her EU
counterparts in Germany.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's government has received
strong backing from both the United States and the European
Union, with Tehran on Saturday slamming the EU's "irrational"
support.


EU foreign ministers meeting in Germany on Friday deplored the
seizure of the Britons as a breach of international law and
threatened to take "appropriate measures" if they were not
released soon.


Several conservative Iranian members of parliament and clerics
are demanding that the detainees be put on trial, but Iran's
ambassador to Moscow denied media reports quoting him as
suggesting the 15 might face trial.


"The network has made a mistake in translating the comments about
detained British personnel," Gholam Reza Ansari told IRNA. "The
issue of British forces' detention has entered legal
proceedings."


Britain has already frozen most ties with Iran, a move Tehran
blamed for its decision not to free the sole woman detained as
promised earlier this week.


Turkey, close to both the West and Iran, also said it was trying
to obtain the sailors' release in order to avoid the crisis being
used as a pretext for military action.


Both Britain and Iran have produced maps and global positioning
system coordinates to back their cases over where the sailors
were when they were seized at gunpoint on March 23.

