

Islamist extremists are highly active in radicalising and
training Muslim men in Britain as well as raising funds and
supporting fellow extremists overseas, a newspaper reported
Sunday.


Citing a secret intelligence document, The Sunday Telegraph added
that Al-Qaeda sympathizers are sending extremists in Pakistan
hundreds of thousands of pounds (dollars) in cash to fund attacks
against Western democracies.


"Security Service and police investigations continue to detect
high levels of operational activity by UK-based Islamist
extremist networks," according to the document cited by the
newspaper.


"Extremists are engaged in fundraising, radicalisation, and
training and in providing support to fellow extremists overseas,"
it said.


"The purpose of a proportion of this clandestine activity is
unclear. The high levels of activity are consistent with the
judgment that an attack in the UK is highly likely," it added.


The newspaper quoted government sources as saying that Britain is
facing a home- grown threat of about 30 plots from 200 separate
networks involving about 1,600 suspects.


"The threat facing the UK is very, very high and MI5 (domestic
intelligence) and other covert agencies involved in the security
of this country are working flat- out. There is no spare capacity
in the system," a security source told the newspaper.


It said the secret document was distributed to the Counter
Terrorist Command (SO15), the Cabinet Office and the Home Office.


It reveals that government buildings, Ministry of Defence
establishments and tourist sites like the London Eye, the world's
tallest observation wheel, on the River Thames, are at "severe"
risk of terrorist attacks, it added.


Prayer leaders and other Muslim "opinion formers" will be given
lessons in civil leadership under a new multi-million-pound
government plan to fight extremism in Britain, the newspaper
added.


As part of the plan, which will be announced this week, pupils
from mainly Muslim schools will be paired with those from mainly
white schools to engage in joint projects like music and drama.


Britain has been on edge since four Islamist suicide bombers
killed themselves and 52 London commuters when they set off bombs
on three Underground trains and a bus on July 7, 2005, the first
such attack in Europe.

