

South Korea's foreign minister on Saturday urged Japanese leaders
against making "inaccurate" statements about their shared
history, saying such remarks were hindering bilateral ties.


Song Min-Soon made the comments after one-day talks with his
Japanese counterpart Taro Aso which focused on North Korea's
nuclear programmes and a row over wartime sexual slavery.


"I expressed regret that Japanese leaders have been making
inaccurate remarks about history and that it is important that
their remarks must be based on historical facts," Song told
journalists.


"The issue of history perception is making it difficult for us to
move forward," Song said on South Korea's southern holiday island
of Jeju.


The comments follow anger in the region over Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe's remarks that there was no evidence Tokyo
coerced Asian women to serve in brothels for its troops in World
War II.


Seoul has expressed "deep regrets" over Abe's comments made
earlier this month which ignited a furore in Asian nations that
were invaded by Japan.


Historians say more than 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and
China, were forced to work as sex slaves for Japanese troops.


Abe has since tried to cool the row, saying he "sincerely" stood
by the previous Tokyo government's 1993 apology for wartime sex
slavery.


Aso reiterated during Saturday's talks that Abe stood by the 1993
apology to so- called comfort women, and the statement that the
imperial army was involved "directly or indirectly" in their
recruitment.


"The Japanese foreign minister reiterated the position taken by
Abe on March 26 at (the Japanese) parliament that the government
will follow a 1993 government statement," senior Japanese
official Mitsui Sakaba told reporters.


"The two foreign ministers also shared the view that six party
talks on disarming North Korea should resume as soon as
possible," Sakaba said.


At the start of talks, Aso said he hoped "we will be able to
exchange our honest views about history and Japan, South Korea
issues."


Aso also said Saturday's talks, which follow Song's visit to
Tokyo last December, were increasingly important for the two
nations.


North Korea agreed in principle last month to disable its nuclear
programmes under a deal which also foresees normalisation of
relations with Japan and the United States.


But progress on implementing the February 13 accord has been
stalled over North Korea's frozen bank accounts.


A meeting this month on normalising Japan-North Korea relations
broke down when Tokyo insisted on getting answers about the fate
of kidnapped citizens.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies. It returned five victims and their
families and says the rest are dead.


Japan says the other abductees are alive and that more Japanese
were snatched than Pyongyang has admitted.


It says until there are "positive developments" on abductions, it
will not help fund aid promised under the February agreement
reached during six-nation talks aimed at North Korea's nuclear
disarmament.


Seoul in the past has criticised Tokyo's insistence on raising
abductions during six-party talks which involve Russia, the
United States and China, Japan and the two Koreas.


A dispute over a chain of islets called Dokdo in Korea and
Takeshima in Japan had also been expected to be raised Saturday.
The two sides want to agree rules for marine surveys around the
islands to avoid future conflict, a diplomat said in the lead up
to the talks.

