

Spanish international defender Juanito Gutierrez salvaged a point
for Real Betis with a header two minutes into injury-time at the
end of a 3-3 thriller with Villarreal on Saturday.


Betis had to come from behind three times, with Villareal's
Uruguayan striker Diego Forlan breaking free of his markers and
finding the net with his left- footed shot after 56 seconds.


Fernando Fernandez equalised eight minutes later but Forlan, the
top goal scorer in the top flight of Spanish football two seasons
ago, got his 10th goal of the season from close range just after
the break.


Brazilian striker Edu headed Betis back on level terms again
after 71 minutes only for last season's Champions league semi-
finalists to go ahead again six minutes later, with Forlan this
time providing the service for Robert Pires to score from the
edge of the area.


It was the first goal for Pires since the 33 year-old former
French international and 1998 World Cup winner moved to
Villarreal last summer after six seasons at English Premiership
side Arsenal.


Pires tore the cruciate ligament in his left knee in a pre-season
friendly and only returned to first team action two weeks ago.


It looked as though Pires' goal would be the winner until
Junaito's last gasp effort found the back of the net.


The game was played at the Sevilla Olympic Stadium as Betis' home
ground has been closed for three games after a fan threw a bottle
during Spanish Cup tie with local rivals Sevilla earlier this
month, knocking the visitors' coach Juande Ramos unconscious.


League leaders and reigning champions Barcelona will be looking
to put space between themselves and their rivals for the league
title with a convincing victory over erratic Deportivo la Coruna
later on Saturday.


"We still have a margin for improvement and now is the time to
get going if we want to be the champions again," said Barca coach
Frank Rijkaard on Friday.


Barca have their Portuguese winger Deco suspended so Rijkaard is
expected to put Edmilson into the centre of the midfield and push
Xavi Hernandez out to the right wing.


Barcelona lead Sevilla on goal difference with both clubs having
53 points from 27 games.


Sevilla have a tricky trip north to Osasuna on Sunday with the
Pamplona-based club an always intimidating opponent in their own
Reyno de Navarra stadium.


"We know we are going to be treated with hostility there. I'd
just like to remind their supporters that it's a football match
not a war," said Sevilla midfielder Antonio Puerta earlier this
week.


The 2006 UEFA Cup winners will be without their regular number
one goal keeper Andres Palop and their dynamic Brazilian
international right back Daniel Alves who are both injured.


Real Madrid are a distant third, five points adrift of the
leading pair, but hope to keep up the pressure with a victory at
struggling Celta Vigo on Sunday.


World Player of the Year Fabio Cannavaro is suspended while Jose
Antonio Reyes and David Beckham are not yet match-fit despite
returning to training this week after the pair both strained knee
ligaments four weeks ago.


"If we are going to win the league then we have to leap into
things in Vigo with the spirit of playing in a final," said Real
coach Fabio Capello at a press conference on Saturday.

