

Israel's Prime Minister Ehud Omlert said in comments published
Saturday that he was open to peace talks with neighboring Syria
after "low-level contacts" between the two countries.


"I don't rule out negotiations with Syria. It just needs to be
done in a manner that will guarantee that we can move forward
rather than get stuck almost in the beginning," Olmert said in an
interview with TIME magazine, published on its website.


"We (must) be certain that when we talk about negotiations for
peace with Syria that what we have in mind and what they have in
mind is broadly the same."


Olmert said he did not take part recently in what he described as
"low-level contacts" between the countries. "They weren't
serious, and weren't considered so by the Syrians," he said.


However, Syria's President Bashar al-Assad has said he is willing
to resume negotiations with Israel, the magazine reported.


"I wouldn't say no. I never say no," Olmert said. "But if you
want to succeed in moving forward... then he has to be prepared
in a way that will create better chances for successful
completion."


Israel currently has peace treaties with only two Arab countries
-- its other neighbours Egypt and Jordan.


Arab leaders this week endorsed a fresh version of a five-year-
old comprehensive peace plan for the Middle East at a Riyadh
summit, but Olmert said further negotiations were needed before
he would accept it.


In the interview published Saturday, however, he welcomed peace-
making efforts by Saudi Arabia, which hosted the summit of the
22-member Arab League that adopted the initiative.


"I look very favorably at the active role Saudis are now playing
in the Middle East for many years," the magazine quoted him as
saying.


Analysts say Olmert has flagging support among Israelis and
desperately needs a breakthrough in the Middle East peace process
to survive politically. His troubles coincide with a push by
Israel's main ally Washington to jump-start the dormant process.


"It's not a political document, not well-defined to the last
dot," Olmert said of the Arab plan.


"It's an approach, an attitude, a state of mind, and I like this
state of mind. I guess there all kinds of details that I would
easily accept and some that I may not. But the strategy is
different, and it's interesting."

