

US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Saturday visited Jerusalem's Old
City on the first day of her tour of the Middle East which has
drawn fire at home because of her decision to visit Syria.


"The Speaker visited the Old City and toured the Church of the
Holy Sepulchre," an official travelling with Pelosi told AFP.


Pelosi -- whose delegation includes Democrat Keith Ellison, the
first Muslim elected to the US Congress -- will meet Israeli
Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres for dinner later on Saturday,
he said.


On Sunday, she is scheduled to hold talks with Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni before speaking at
an official ceremony in parliament.


She also planned to hold talks with Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas.


Pelosi raised the shackles of the White House after her aides
announced she would make a groundbreaking visit to Syria, which
the United States accuses of harbouring terror organisations and
backing insurgents in Iraq.


Syria's embassy in Washington hailed the proposed trip as
"momentous" and expressed hopes it may change sorely strained
relations with the United States, even as the White House
denounced the visit as "a really bad idea" that undermines US
policy.


The State Department tried and failed to convince Pelosi, who
will be the highest-ranking US official to visit Syria in years,
to cancel the visit, which is expected to take place next week.


It then asked her to convey a "strong message" to Damascus,
officials said.


"They should end their support for Palestinian rejectionist
groups, take a constructive stance vis-a-vis Lebanon, and
obviously do what they can to help support Iraq," said spokesman
Sean McCormack.


The White House denounced the Damascus visit by Pelosi -- a
determined opponent of US President George W. Bush's Iraq war
policies -- and warned she may hand Syrian President Bashar al-
Assad a symbolic diplomatic victory.


"Assad probably really wants people to come and have a photo
opportunity and have tea with him and have discussions about
where they're coming from, but we do think that it's a really bad
idea," said spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Other top Democratic lawmakers travelling with Pelosi and Ellison
include House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Lantos and
House Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman.

