

Skipper Brian Lara took a pot shot at selector Andy Roberts on
Saturday, warning that criticism of the team could derail their
World Cup campaign which is already reeling after two Super
Eights defeats.


"I was caught by surprise. I was shocked that things like that
need to be spoken about in public. It's not healthy," said Lara
ahead of his team's must-win game against Sri Lanka at the
National Stadium here on Sunday.


Former bowling great Roberts, now a selector, criticised the
combination of the final eleven for the New Zealand match,
questioning batsman Lendl Simmons' selection ahead of spearhead
Jerome Taylor.


West Indies lost to New Zealand by seven wickets after going down
by 103 runs against defending champions Australia -- both in
Antigua.


"I don't have to read the riot act. You can tell from the
disappointment in the dressing room that the boys want to do
better," said Lara, whose team have just two points from three
matches, courtesy of a win over fellow-qualifers Ireland in the
first round.


The hosts need to win all their remaining four matches against
Sri Lanka, South Africa, England and Bangladesh to be in
contention for a place in the semi- finals.


Lara said 1996 champions Sri Lanka will be a tough opponent.


"It's going to be a huge game. Sri Lanka are playing some very
good cricket. Even though they lost to South Africa, they showed
fight right till the end," said the West Indian captain of Sri
Lanka's close one-wicket loss.


"The guys know that this is a World Cup. You have to put your
hands up and be counted. If we want to win, we have to beat
everybody and beat them convincingly."


Lara stressed his team cannot afford any more slip-ups.


"That's a part of sport. Sometimes it puts you in a better frame
of mind," he said.


"Once you reach the semi-final, if you have one bad game, you are
on your way home.


"We haven't scored 250 yet. The pitch in Antigua wasn't one where
you could blast people out. The weight of runs cost us the game
against Australia. But we then scored our lowest total playing
with the extra batsman."


Chasing Australia's 323, West Indies crumbled to 219 all out.


They were bowled out for a paltry 177 in their match against New
Zealand.


None of the top-order batsmen managed a fifty with Lara alone
hitting 77 and 37 in the two matches.


Lara said batting on strips like the one at Sir Viv Richards
Stadium, Antigua wasn't easy.


"The pitches in the Caribbean have a certain character. This
pitch reminds me of the one at Bourda (Guyana). And from what
I've seen on TV, there's something in it for the first ten overs
or so.


"They (Sri Lanka) will also be concerned about how they've
batted. They might be able to afford a defeat, but won't want to
put themselves in that predicament.


"It's not about aggression. We need to play smart cricket. We
haven't been doing that. Against Australia, we were out of the
game after 10 overs.


"In the bowling department and on the field, there's a good buzz.
That half of our game is almost there. Against Australia, Matthew
Hayden changed a score of around 280 to 322," said Lara of the
Australian opener who hit 158 against them.


"As for the batting, there was concern even in Jamaica (in the
first round) because we didn't go on to dominate in any of the
games. But we are working on it so that boys come out confident
tomorrow with bat in hand."

