

Carlos Henrique scored a last minute header to give Bordeaux the
first piece of silverware in France this season as they beat
champions Lyon 1-0 in the League Cup final here Saturday.


Lyon were looking to the League Cup to provide some much needed
solace after being dumped out of the Champions League by Roma in
the first knockout round this month and out of the French Cup in
January by Marseille.


But in front of a 79,000 crowd at the Stade de France it was
Bordeaux who took the title thanks to Henrique's late
intervention.


The 23-year-old Brazilian, who joined Bordeaux from Flamingo in
2005, stunned the French champions with what was effectively
Bordeaux's only real attacking move in a final that could hardly
be described as memorable.


Second string Lyon keeper Remi Vercoutre did not have to get his
hands dirty until the 90th minute when he was foiled by Henrique
who converted with his head off a corner taken by Johan Micoud.


Bordeaux's defensive tactics sat uneasily with their manager
Ricardo's pre-match assertion that "We'll have to take risks".


And his Lyon counterpart Gerard Houllier could barely believe his
eyes at the unsatisfactory not to say unexpected ending.


"I feel this is a cruel injustice for my players. They didn't get
their reward for taking risks," said the former Liverpool boss.


"Bordeaux are formidable winners, we were beaten, but it was like
a 'hold-up'."


At least Houllier's men, who were by far the more adventurous of
the two sides, have the consolation of a record sixth successive
league title well within their grasp - they hold a 16 point
advantage with nine games to go.


"The league title is the important thing," said the Lyon manager.


"We were knocked out of the Champions League but that competition
is so random, for instance there's only one quarter-finalist - AC
Milan - left in it from last season."


Bordeaux, who were claiming their first silverware since winning
this competition in 2002, are qualified for the UEFA Cup and will
now set their sights on the more lucrative Champions League by
defending their third place in the league.


The match was attended by 20-year-old reserve firefighter Anthony
Rocko, who last October lost two fingers when he picked up a fire
cracker thrown onto the pitch during a match between Nice and
Marseille.

