

Invasor ensured he remained the highest rated horse in the world
when he won the six million dollar Dubai World Cup here on
Saturday.


The five-year-old American challenger - ridden by 19-year-old
Fernando Jara - beat home fellow American Premium Tap while Hong
Kong runner Bullish Luck was third.


The winner's trainer Kieran McLaughlin said it had been an aim of
his to return and win the race after spending 10 years in Dubai
at the start of his career and especially for owner Sheikh Hamdan
al-Maktoum, part of the ruling family.


"I spent 10 years here and the Maktoums are great sportsmen and
really believed in me," said the California-based handler.


"I never doubted that Invasor could win. He did look around a bit
and Prmeium Tap gave him a real race but no, I, never doubted him
at all."


Jara, known as the 'Ice Man', was ecstatic at landing the biggest
purse in the world.


"I can't believe it yet," purred Jara.


"To win the race is very special."


Invasor - who made his name in Uruguay and was originally sold
out of there for 20,000 US dollars before being snapped up by
Sheikh Hamdan al-Maktoum - had to battle for the victory but not
against the expected challenge of main rival Discreet Cat.


However Godolphin's hopes of landing the world's richest race for
the sixth time never looked like bearing fruit as the only horse
ever to beat Argentina-bred Invasor in 12 starts never got going
and eventually finished last.


Invasor had to fight hard to get his head in front past Premium
Tap, who showed more enthusiasm when in front than when he
virtually refused to go into the stalls, but Jara eventually got
in front just over 200 metres out.


Premium Tap came back but Jara had just enough left in the tank
of Invasor to get him home and have the time to wag his finger in
joy at the crowd as he passed the line.


Invasor, winner of last year's Breeders Cup Classic, was sent off
the 5-4 favourite by British bookmakers.


Hong Kong enjoyed their first winner at the meeting when
Vengeance of Rain landed the Group One Dubai Sheema Classic in
impressive fashion.


Anthony Delpech produced him down the straight to win the
1.5million dollar prize with a high class field - including Epsom
Derby winner Sir Percy who was fourth and Breeders Cup Turf
champion Red Rocks - trailing in his wake.


While the winner may be aimed at the Melbourne Cup Sir Percy's
jockey Martin Dwyer had no doubts that his horse was going places
after an injury-plagued season last year.


"He's back!" said Dwyer.


South African trainer Mike de Kock has proved a bit of an expert
at the Dubai Carnival and he once again showed he has the Midas
touch as he won the UAE Derby with Asiatic Boy.


He didn't just win it he absolutely slaughtered his other 12
opponents as he stormed home under Weichong Marwing to prevail by
nine-and-a-half lengths.


"It was awesome. It was a competitive field and he has come out
on top and is the best horse I have ridden," said Marwing.


Japan's outstanding recent record in foreign races continued as
Yutaka Take guided Admire Moon to victory in the Dubai Duty Free,
their fourth win at the World Cup racenight.


However, he nearly gave the race away as the much-maligned
Japanese rider eased up near the line and the fast finishing
Linngari all but caught him.


"We had a good start and a good finish," said Take.


"It was very easy. He is such a good horse and I would like to
see him race again in Europe."


For the winner's owner Riichi Kondo it was a dream come true.


"It was my dream to win a race in Dubai," beamed Kondo.


The appropriately named Spring At Last had won the opener the
Godolphin Mile under Garret Gomez for trainer Doug O'Neill,
leading home Parole Board and Mullins Bay.


Gomez said he hoped that this win would lead on to even greater
things.


"This victory will hopefully take him on to the Breeders Cup
Mile," commented Gomez.


Frankie Dettori had got off the mark in the Dubai Golden Shaheen
but not on one of Godolphin's horses but America's Kelly's
Landing as he prevailed over Gomez on Friendly Island.


"What a ride he gave me," gushed Dettori.


"He was getting a bit tired towards the end but thankfully the
winning post came in time."

