

Former European champions Marseille missed the chance to cement
their European credentials with a 2-1 defeat at Lorient on
Saturday.


Fielding an experimental backline, Marseille lacked the experince
to dominate and fell to a pair of goals from Rafik Saifi and
Ulrich Le Pen.


With no other matches being played on Saturday, victory would
have propelled the eighth-placed Mediterranean outfit into a
Champions League qualifying place but instead Marseille once
again flattered to deceive.


With only eight games left to play, Albert Emon's men are in
danger of being swallowed by the pack chasing the precious few
European places on offer.


They came up against a side that had not scored in their previous
six games, losing three in a row followed by three 0-0 draws in
succession.


But Lorient found their scoring touch after an hour as the
visitors' central pairing of Bostjan Cesar and Renato Civelli
failed to track the run of Saifi, who headed home a cross from
Andre-Pierre Gignac.


By that time Marseille should have had the lead but the much-
maligned Djibril Cisse, who was roundly jeered by the Parisian
crowd during France's midweek 1-0 friendly victory over Austria,
was denied by Lorient goalkeeper Remy Riou on 19 minutes.


Cisse ran clear of the backline and only had to beat the
goalkeeper but Riou, who had charged out of his area, headed away
Cisse's attempted lob.


Cisse had another chance on 72 minutes but was again thwarted by
Riou before Le Pen doubled the hosts' advantage three minutes
later.


Le Pen headed home a Gignac corner after slack marking once again
cost Marseille.


Cisse did gain some measure of satisfaction 10 minutes from time
as he fired home a penalty to reduce the arrears after substitute
Toifilou Maoulida was felled in the box.


Despite their listless showing, Marseille could yet have stolen a
point but the impressive Riou denied Maoulida and Mikael Pagis in
the dying moments.


All of which hastens the necessity for Emon to welcome back
injured pair Franck Ribery and Julien Rodriguez into the first
team picture ahead of their next match, against Lille.

