

Herschelle Gibbs believes South Africa's middle order must start
to click if they are to avoid further batting collapses at the
World Cup.


South Africa almost snatched defeat from the jaws of victory in
their first Super Eights match against Sri Lanka before sneaking
to a one-wicket win here on Wednesday.


Chasing just 210 for victory, Graeme Smith's men were well placed
at 206-5 when Sri Lanka paceman Lasith Malinga took four wickets
in four balls to threaten a shock win.


Last man Robin Petersen saved South Africa with a boundary to
help the team gain two crucial points.


The South African middle order also crumbled in their 378-run
chase against Australia in their Group A match in St Kitts last
week, losing their last nine wickets for just 74 runs after being
well placed at 220-1.


"The guys are firing up front and it would be good for our middle
order to fire as well," said Gibbs, who became the first man to
hit six sixes in a one-day over against the Netherlands in
another Group A match in St Kitts.


He then managed only 17 against Australia and 31 against Sri
Lanka.


"In order to win a tournament like this you need a big team
effort and along with that team effort comes individual
performances and the guys are good enough to turn it all around
in one game," he said.


"I wouldn't say it's a problem right now. The guys up the order
have been setting it up, we just need the middle order to get in
there and bat with the same intensity."


Smith and AB De Villiers put on 160 against Australia, while
Smith (59) and Jacques Kallis (86) put on 94 for the second
wicket against Sri Lanka to keep the top order among the runs.


Gibbs hoped his fellow batsmen learn from the mistakes against
Sri Lanka in their next match against Ireland here on Tuesday.


"We learnt the lesson of not completing the innings with the same
intensity with which we started it. That's what happens when you
drop the intensity, it takes four good balls to turn the game on
its head," he said.


Gibbs said the team would not under-estimate Ireland who uspet
former champions Pakistan in the group stages to qualify for
Super Eights.


"We know they are a dangerous team and we know you can't take
anything for granted. If you disrespect your opponents you will
come short. The games are hotting up now. It's a big time in the
tournament and we can't relax."


Gibbs admitted he feels tense in the dying moments of a match
like the one against Sri Lanka.


"I don't normally have the stomach for matches like that. I'm
normally the first one hiding in the toilets at the back of the
change room, not able to watch. But I sat through it this time
and witnessed every ball and had a drink very quickly after it
was finished.


"It was an interesting experience and very, very nice to come
away with a win. But it was a big lesson for all the batsmen who
batted at the end.


"Maybe we just took things for granted and weren't clinical
enough at the end of the innings. But the lesson has been learned
and the same mistake won't be made again."

