

British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett accused Iran on
Saturday of "sabre- rattling" over its capture of 15 British
naval personnel in the Gulf last week.


Beckett told reporters, following an EU foreign ministers'
meeting in Germany, that Britain had replied by diplomatic note
to Iran over the issue.


Iranian authorities have begun legal proceedings against
Britain's seized naval personnel and they will be punished if
found guilty, Iran's ambassador to Moscow said in comments
distributed earlier Saturday, though he later denied having made
reference to a trial.


"It's not the first person to make sabre-rattling comments," said
Beckett.


"I don't think it's helpful," she added.


A diplomatic note from Iran to British authorities released
Friday condemned the "illegal act" by British naval staff in the
Gulf but did not call for an apology.


Beckett said: "I think everyone regrets that this position has
arisen. What we want is a way out of it, we want it peacefully
and we want it as soon as possible.


"We would like to be told where our personnel are, we would like
to be given access to them, but we want it resolved," Beckett
added.


She said however she feared that the current holiday period in
Iran might delay the diplomatic proceedings.


Iran has so far refused to bow to mounting international pressure
to release the naval personnel, who are being held in a secret
location and are occasionally shown on television allegedly
confessing to having entered Iranian waters.


Britain insists they were in Iraqi waters when they were seized.


Beckett said there had been contact with the Iranian side but
gave no details.


"I'm sure that at some point our ambassador will have been in
contact," she said, stressing Britain's willingness "to engage in
dialogue and discussion".


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier told the post EU-
meeting press conference that he had hoped a solution would have
come from British-Iran contacts overnight Friday.


"We did hope that something might have happened during the night
on the basis of bilateral relations between the United Kingdom
and Iran but it did not happen," he said.


Steinmeier added that a solution must be found "before the
sailors and marines are sentenced because that is what could
happen to them," he said.


However, the Iranian ambassador reported to have made the
comments, Gholam Reza Ansari, told Iran's state news agency IRNA
that he was misquoted by Russian television when he said Tehran
might put them on trial.


"The network has made a mistake in translating the comments about
detained British personnel and has reported the possibility of
their trial," he said, referring to an interview he had given on
Friday to Vesti-24 television.


Iran on Saturday again warned Britain against politicising the
seizure of its 15 navy personnel, saying it could complicate
efforts to resolve the escalating crisis.

