

Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq on Saturday hit back at local
media rejected swirling match-fixing claims after his team's
shock World Cup exit and the murder of coach Bob Woolmer.


A dejected-looking Inzamam, in his first press conference since
the traumatic events, said it was "unfair" to talk about match-
fixing after the defeat to Ireland which ended Pakistan's
tournament.


"The team over the past three-and-a-half years had been playing
and winning matches. There were no such comments. Now they are
spreading such rumours," he said, referring to comments by former
players.


Pakistan lost their opening match to the West Indies by 54 runs
before a humiliating three-wicket defeat at the hands of
debutants Ireland sent them crashing out of the World Cup on
March 17.


The following day, Woolmer was found strangled in his hotel room.


Woolmer's death has sparked one of the most complex murder
investigations in Jamaican history. It also triggered speculation
about possible links to match- fixing and illegal betting in
cricket.


The Pakistan team was finger-printed and provided DNA samples,
with Inzamam among three members of the entourage questioned
twice over the affair.


A downbeat Inzamam lauded Woolmer's services, calling him "a
great man and a very sincere and dedicated coach."


Inzamam announced his retirement from one-day cricket and
relinquished the captaincy after the defeat.


"It was a difficult decision followed by a very difficult period
in my cricket career," he said, taking responsibility for the
loss.


"We did not perform well," he commented.


However, the thick-set Inzamam, 37, said he was hurt by
subsequent comments in the local media.


"The media did not provide the support and encouragement the
players needed. They picked all sorts of stories after the
defeat," he said.


"I was blamed for everything as if I was running the cricket
board and dictating the selection committee."


He also rejected criticism that the players had been too focused
on religion after several of them grew traditional beards. The
team does not indulge in any religious activity except saying
prayers, he said.


"They were not involved in any activity which could affect its
performance," Inzamam told the press conference.


Inzamam also criticised the Kingston pitch, saying that it was
not suited for a one-day match.


"The wicket was very difficult for batting. It was a green-top
pitch. I had never seen such a wicket in the World Cup," he said.


"The match became dependent on the toss. Unfortunately we lost
the toss and Ireland used it to their maximum benefit."


Pakistan Cricket Board chief Nasim Ashraf said two senior police
officers would leave for Jamaica on Monday to join the
investigation into Woolmer's murder.


"The Pakistani police team will cooperate with the Jamaican
police," he said.


"I have no doubt that our players are innocent," he told a
separate news conference in which a one-minute silence was held
to pay homage to Woolmer.


Ashraf said he would attend Woolmer's funeral in South Africa on
Wednesday. "I will represent Pakistan and the PCB," he said.


He said a three-member committee of former cricketers had set up
to look into the Pakistan team's World Cup fiasco.


"This inquiry team will evaluate the performance of each player
and submit a report after 30 days, he said.


PCB has suspended the players' contracts and new "performance
based" ones would be signed by the players within 90 days, he
added.

