

Brazil's air transportation system struggled to resume operations
Saturday after the government struck a deal with striking air
traffic controllers to return to work.


The agreement to end the strike was reached late Friday, during
an emergency meeting between members of the Brazilian cabinet and
unions representing the controllers.


Under the accord, the government agreed to suspend planned
transfers of striking workers from the airport of Brasilia, the
capital, to other parts of the country, and begin talks about
increasing worker salaries and "demilitarizing" the industry.


The Brazilian military exercises significant control over traffic
in the country's airspace, and most air traffic controllers
technically work for it.


Thousands of passengers on Saturday remained blocked at the South
American giant's 49 airports.


The situation was chaotic at the major airports, with flight
cancellations and lengthy delays on national and international
departures.


Long waiting lines snaked at times outside the airport buildings,
particularly in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.


The Brazilian carrier Gol asked its passengers to "not appear" at
the airports.


The conflict reached a boiling point Friday when the state
airports management agency Infraero cancelled all takeoffs across
the country of 190 million, and said that the only operations
allowed were the landings of planes already in flight.


Controllers threatened to go on a hunger strike and stop work to
press their demands.


When some started following through, authorities demanded the
controllers get back to work or face penalties.


Eighteen controllers were ordered arrested for having walked off
the job and holed up at their workplaces, Globo television
reported.


Infraero said Saturday that of the 533 scheduled flights between
midnight Friday and 10:30 am Saturday, 22 flights had been
cancelled and 101 were delayed more than one hour.


Infraero chief Jose Carlos Pereira, speaking to reporters as he
arrived in Brasilia for an emergency meeting Saturday afternoon
with Defense Secretary Waldir Pires, said that "the situation
will not return to normal before three days."

