

German Chancellor Angela Merkel held talks in Jordan on Saturday
at the start of a Middle East tour aimed at adding a European
dimension to an Arab initiative for peace with Israel.


"The chancellor and I spoke first and foremost about the need to
build on the momentum of the Arab summit to move the Arab peace
initiative forward," King Abdullah II told reporters after the
two leaders met.


"Jordan looks forward to working closely with you and our
European partners, to advance the initiative as an ideal
framework for political negotiations between Arabs and Israelis,"
he said.


Hot on the heels of an Arab summit, Merkel, whose country holds
the EU's rotating presidency, was greeted on arrival in the Red
Sea resort of Aqaba by Foreign Minister Abdel Ilah Khatib before
the talks with King Abdullah.


The talks are part of efforts to revive the peace process, said
Jordan's Petra news agency. The two leaders also discussed
efforts to restore security in neighbouring Iraq.


Merkel was to travel on to Israel, Lebanon and the Palestinian
territories during her three-day tour.


Her trip follows an agreement struck by Arab leaders at a summit
in Riyadh on Thursday to relaunch a five-year-old peace plan that
has been rejected by Israel as it stands but is seen as a
possible starting point.


Merkel said before leaving Berlin that the Arab League agreement
had "created a lot of movement" in the region, but warned against
over-optimism, saying a "very difficult path" lay ahead.


Her trip follows recent visits to the region by US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


The Arab proposal, offering Israel peace and normal ties if it
withdraws from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war,
allows the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Friday that the new
spirit of Arab consensus meant the Jewish state could reach a
peace settlement with its enemies within five years.


Merkel discussed the outcome of the Arab summit with Abdullah
before flying to Israel for an informal dinner with Olmert. She
was also to meet Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas.


One of her main aims is to get "a picture of the situation"
following the naming in mid-March of the new Palestinian unity
government of Hamas militants and Western-backed Fatah, German
officials said.


Merkel will carry an uncompromising message to Abbas on behalf of
Europe: unless the new government implements the conditions laid
down by the Quartet on the Middle East, the international
community will not work with it.


The Hamas-led government has refused to meet demands set by the
Quartet -- the EU, the United States, Russia and the United
Nations -- to renounce violence, recognise Israel and abide by
past peace accords.


While Merkel took Europe's message to the Middle East, EU foreign
ministers agreed at talks in Germany to lend their full support
to the Arab initiative and work with non-Hamas members of the
government, a European official said.


"There is full support for the Riyadh consensus," said a
spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana. "The EU
will continue to be extremely proactive to ensure that this
window of opportunity is not missed."


The ministers also supported a call by Solana to organise
meetings between the international Quartet and an Arab Quartet of
Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Jordan, the
spokeswoman said.

