

Indonesian scientists said they remained baffled by the "random"
behaviour of the bird flu virus afflicting the country, after a
top-level meeting here.


About 40 scientists from all over the country met to discuss the
disease which has claimed 69 deaths in Indonesia, making it the
world's worst-hit country.


"The random aspect of the disease ... unfortunately led
scientists to say that (the behaviour of) the virus remains a
mystery," said Bayu Krisnamurthi, head of the national commission
on bird flu control.


Indonesia's deaths came from 89 reported cases. The WHO says the
deadly H5N1 strain has infected 284 people worldwide and killed
169 of them, mostly in Southeast Asia, since the end of 2003.


Wide differences were seen in the patterns of human infections
and development of various stages of the disease, making it
difficult to predict, said Krisnamurthi.


"There was no correlation found between (a patient's) age, sex,
genetics, and other (attributes)," he said.


"What is clear is the risk factors, such as contact with sick
birds, sanitation, and so on, but this is very general."


Krisnamurthi gave an example where three members of a family
showed similar symptoms this year, but only the mother and son
tested positive. The mother later died of the disease and the son
survived.


"All we know is that patients died of multi-organ failure at the
late stages of the illness," he said.


Krisnamurthi said more in-depth study was needed out on human
infections "and the only way to do this is by carrying out
autopsies on fatal human victims."


Less than 10 fatal cases worldwide and none of the victims died
in Indonesia have undergone autopsies, he said.


"We have only known that the virus is found in the respiratory
organs of infected patients. It is possible that it can be found
on other organs, but we wouldn't know that without an autopsy,"
he said.


Autopsies on dead infected birds showed that the virus had spread
to many other organs, causing them to fail.


Scientists worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


However, Krisnamurthi affirmed that "studies showed that the
virus is stable."


Indonesian experts will meet soon to compare DNA sequencing of
human and poultry viruses.


"We hope that there are no significant differences, which means
the animal virus has not changed itself into a human virus ...
otherwise it means that it can spread between humans," said
Krisnamurthi.


He also called for a diagnosis kit which could save lives in
rural areas.


"The trend shows in Indonesia, more patients from the rural areas
are treated late and died ... because they are far from referral
hospitals," Krisnamurthi said.


"It is critical to apply some sort of an early detection
mechanism and until now we don't have a highly dependable kit."

