

Men swapped places with women offering themselves for hire in the
shop windows of Amsterdam's infamous red light district on
Saturday in an audacious bid to improve the area's seedy image.


"Last year, I noticed that there were a lot of female visitors,"
Mariska Majoor from the Prostitution Information Centre (PIC),
organiser of the second annual open day to stress the area's
"positive and festive" side, told AFP.


"So we asked for men prepared to prostitute themselves to be in
the windows for one day. It is only the second time in the
history of Amsterdam that men are offering themselves to women
are in the windows like their female colleagues."


One of them was a 34-year-old called Fabio.


"I want to get into escort services because I have stopped my
modelling career, so I said to myself why not advertise
yourself!" he said nervously as crowds gathered to catch a glimse
of the five male volunteers.


Next to him was 31-year-old Dennis, wearing only a pair of black
Lycra shorts.


"I want you ... it's 35 euros (45 dollars) a go!" Dennis called
out to a group of giggling young women walking past.


"Thirty euros? That's cheap!" a woman says to her friend.


Suzan, Inge and Wil, three friends in their fifties, took
advantage of the open day to have a look around inside.


"We visited a shop window with a bedroom, we even sat down on the
stool where they wait for customers," one of them recounted. "It
gives you a completely different image to be on the inside."


Other attractions included free peep shows, a course offering
"All you need to know about contraceptives in 10 minutes" and a
demonstration of pole-dancing -- but with the dancer wearing a
pair of shorts for a change.


Later Saturday, a statue paying tribute to "all the prostitutes
of the world" -- depicting a confident-looking woman with her
hands on her hips, leaning against a doorway -- was due to be
unveiled.


Prostitution was legalized in 2000 in the Netherlands and being a
prostitute is thought of as a job like any other when it comes to
workers' rights.


"It's not all rosy of course. Forced prostitution exists here too
and the PIC is here to help women escape that," Majoor said.

