

Salomon Kalou's dramatic late goal earned Chelsea a 1-0 win at
Watford on Saturday that preserved his side's Premiership title
hopes.


The Blues striker headed Andriy Shevchenko's cross high into the
top corner three minutes into stoppage time, just as Watford
appeared certain to hold out for a draw that would have
effectively handed Manchester United the title.


Kalou's timely intervention kept Chelsea six points behind league
leaders United with seven games remaining but Jose Mourinho's
celebrations at the final whistle stemmed more from relief than
euphoria.


The west Londoners had struggled to find any rhythm during a
fractious match but Mourinho has a useful knack of eking wins out
of such frenetic occasions, and it did not desert him here.


Mourinho could not be accused of taking Watford lightly. United's
emphatic victory over Blackburn earlier in the afternoon had left
the Portuguese little room to manoeuvre and not even Wednesday's
crucial Champions League quarter- final with Valencia could deter
him from naming his strongest team.


That included Frank Lampard. The midfielder had endured a
wretched week, suffering a hairline fracture in his wrist during
an England training session and then missing his team's 3-0
victory over Andorra.


Rumours persist that Lampard had declared himself fit only to be
then dropped by his manager Steve McClaren and they appeared more
credible when he trotted out at Vicarage Road with a plaster cast
protecting his damaged right arm.


Mourinho must have expected the presence of his midfield talisman
to pep his side. If so, he was disappointed: Chelsea were utterly
uninspired during a frenetic, error-strewn first half, and
dismally failed to cope with Watford's muscular approach.


The Hornets showed scant respect for their illustrious guests.
John Terry and Ashley Cole were both on the receiving end of
bone-shuddering tackles, which drew angry responses from Mourinho
on the sideline, but Adrian Boothroyd's plan worked to
perfection.


The visitors were flustered and their defence began to creak. In
the fifth minute, a neatly-improvised overhead kick from Steve
Kabba forced Petr Cech, the goalkeeper, to acrobatically tip
over.


The Czech was helpless nine minutes later when Chelsea failed to
deal effectively with an inswinging corner and the loose ball
fell to Darius Henderson. The former Gillingham forward's volley
could not have been struck any sweeter, but it streaked just over
the crossbar.


Watford's attacking brio was impressive and on the rare occasions
Chelsea threatened to crack them open, the champions found Ben
Foster in inspired form.


In the 33rd minute, Lampard nodded down to Didier Drogba, who
swivelled and struck a firm shot towards the bottom corner. The
Ivory Coast forward was virtually embarking on his celebration
charge when Foster stuck out his left boot to deflect behind.


All Watford lacked was a goal and they should have had one in the
51st minute. Gavin Mahon's long throw sparked pandemonium in the
penalty area and after a chaotic few seconds, Kabba found himself
with time and space to spare at the back post but sliced horribly
wide.


Shaun Wright-Phillips curled wide from 20 yards and when Lampard
broke clear only to see the ball whipped away from his toes by
Jay DeMerit, Chelsea's faint title hopes appeared to evaporate.


Not so. In the 93rd minute, Shevchenko charged down the right and
delivered an inch-perfect cross which Kalou - on as a second-half
substitute - headed in gleefully from 10 yards.

