

Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody has said his team will try to
capitalise on the West Indies' current unimpressive form in their
World Cup Super Eights match here on Sunday.


Brian Lara's West Indians find themselves in a must-win situation
after losing to defending champions Australia and New Zealand in
their first two matches in the second round.


When asked whether the West Indies' form was an advantage for Sri
Lanka, Moody replied: "I am not sure what the morale is like in
the West Indies camp, but if it is down we will try to take
advantage of it.


"They have come off two losses, so this is a big game for them.
But it is equally as big for us. We are going in there all guns
blazing, hoping to play our A game to get two points on the board
at this stage of the competition."


Mahela Jayawardene's Sri Lankans also need a win to boost their
chances of qualifying for the semi-finals, having lost to South
Africa by one wicket in a tense match here on Wednesday.


The West Indies have two points from three games and Sri Lanka
two from as many matches.


Moody told his side to be on their toes as the under-pressure
West Indies could strike back as they would enjoy the crowd
support.


"They are a very good side with lots of proven match-winners.
They have done well in competitions before. In the Champions
Trophy, they have shown they are a side that can win competitions
and beat big teams. We are aware they are a very dangerous side,"
he said.


"Given that they are under pressure, they will probably strike
back and play their best game. So, we've got to make sure we are
on our guard and play our best game at the same time."


The West Indies did extremely well in the ICC Champions Trophy in
India last year when they finished runners-up to Australia, but
not before losing to Sri Lanka in a qualifying match at Mumbai.


"We will take nothing out of that match, considering these are
completely different conditions and situations. The only
advantage we will take is a psychological advantage," he said.


"I'm sure they are going to have a lot of crowd support, given
it's a crunch game for them. But that shouldn't have any bearing
on our game. We have to make sure we get our processes right and
play the right type of cricket."


The Sri Lanka coach said he expected his top-order batsmen to
fire after their below-par performance in the previous match
against South Africa when his side could manage just 209.


"We know we didn't bat as well as we could have upfront.
Thankfully, (Russel) Arnold and (Tillakaratne) Dilshan gave us
the opportunity to compete in the match," said Moody.


"But we will be looking for a lot better batting performance at
the top end. We know it is going to be critical in either setting
or chasing a target."


Middle-order batsmen Arnold and Dilshan both scored half-
centuries against South Africa but skipper Mahela Jayawardene
made just 12 to fail for the second successive time, following
his seven runs against India in a group game.


"Mahela has been digging deep for some runs. If we talk about
peaking, now is a good time for the top order to be peaking and
there could be nothing better than the captain to lead from the
front," said Moody.


"We have got a lot of faith and confidence in Mahela. He is a
very fine  player and we know it's just round the corner that he
will click. Hopefully, against the West Indies he plays that
match-winning knock."

