

Rangers manager Walter Smith denies his side wasted an
opportunity to pile pressure on faltering Scottish Premier League
leaders Celtic on Saturday.


The Ibrox side were held to a 1-1 draw at home to 10 man
Inverness Caledonian Thistle, meaning they blew an opportunity to
move to within 11 points of Gordon Strachan's table toppers - who
earlier in the day dropped two points away to Dundee United.


Celtic's 1-1 draw at Tannadice meant they have now failed to win
their last three SPL matches - after losing at home to Rangers
and away to Falkirk.


And although there are only six SPL games remaining, Celtic's
nervy trudge to the finish line rekindled memories of their
collapse in season 2004/2005 - where they threw away a five point
lead with four games left to lose the title on the last day of
the campaign.


Smith, however, rubbished claims his side threw away a chance to
re-open this season's league race and instead insisted he has
only been worried about finishing second since taking over from
French boss Paul Le Guen in January.


The Rangers manager said: "The amount of points we had to make up
when we arrived meant securing second place was the main
motivation for us.


"Whatever happens elsewhere is no consequence to us, it is the
manner in which we play that is important.


"What is disappointing for us is we have not been playing like we
did against Inverness. In recent games we have had a good edge to
our play which, if it had been there earlier in the season,
things might have been a lot tighter."


Saturday's draw at home to Caley has renewed Aberdeen's hopes of
overtaking Rangers in the hunt for the runners-up spot and
Champions League football next season.


Two weeks previously an emphatic 3-0 win for Rangers at home to
the Dons meant they moved seven points clear to seemingly secure
second place.


However, with Caley snatching a draw at Ibrox, while the Dons won
2-1 away to Kilmarnock, there are now only five points between
the sides.


Smith was angry his players had undone a lot of their previous
good work on Saturday to give the Pittodrie side hope.


He said: "Even after the Aberdeen game I said the race for second
place had a long way to go.


"We've had good performances recently but we didn't play well
against Caley so that's disappointing.


"It is the overall performance that we have to look at as it is,
without a doubt, the poorest since we've been here."


In Saturday's game Inverness had been reduced to 10 men in the
14th minute when referee William Collum showed Darren Dods a
straight red card for barging into Kris Boyd, as he chased a high
ball into the penalty box.


Rangers then scored from the resulting free-kick with Charlie
Adam curling a left-foot strike from 20-yards into the corner of
the net.


Despite the extra man, the home side could not make the advantage
count and they were punished in the 82nd minute.


Richard Hastings's cross from the left was headed back across
goal by Graham Bayne and Craig Dargo smashed the ball home from
close range to the delight of the small band of Caley fans in the
50,278 crowd.

