

US Harvard University student Thomas Snyder become world sudoku
champion in Prague on Saturday when he beat Japan's Yuhei Kusui
in the head-to-head final round.


Snyder, 27, who was runner up in the first world championships of
the popular numerical logic game last year, scored 162 against
Kusei's 135 points in the final session of the three-day event in
which 141 of the world's best players took part.


"I was really disappointed not to have won last year," Snyder,
who is also the reigning US world puzzle champion, said. "I do
not think people were surprised to see me in the play-offs," he
added.


Snyder, a chemistry student who expects to finish his post-
graduate studies this year, said the secret of his success was
playing "lots of logic puzzles, not just sudoku."


"I started doing mathematical and logic puzzles when I was four
or five at the time between crawling and walking," he said,
adding that the interest was nurtured by his mathematics teacher
mother and his father, a university science professor.


Japan won the world team competition, which was held for the
first time this year, with 4,490 points. The United States took
second place with 4,328 points, followed by the Czech Republic
with 3,690 points.


Sudoku, a sort of numerical crossword where contestants have to
fill a nine by nine grid so that each column, each row, and each
of the nine three by three internal squares contains only the
numbers from one to nine, was revived at the end of the 1980s and
has recently enjoyed a worldwide boom in popularity.


Organisers of the second world championship said they choose to
mix classical sudoku puzzles with logic brain teasers for this
year's world championships in a move welcomed by the finalists.


"That was my aim this year," one organiser, Vitezslav Koudelka,
told AFP. He added that the game's popularity has now levelled
off following its rocking success.


"As the players said, it gets a bit boring filling in gaps with
missing numbers in the same way," he explained.


"We have an extremely dramatic competition," Koudelka said in the
press conference, referring to the semifinal where third placed
21-year-old Slovak student Peter Hudak tied on points with Kusei
and was only denied a place in the final because of his slower
time.


Championship winner Snyder said the introduction of more
mathematical-style tests threw him at one stage. "In the midst of
the pressure of the situation,  I almost forgot how to add and
multiply out there," he said.


The American student is finishing a book of sudoku puzzles which
should be published by the end of the year and expects to defend
his doctoral thesis within three months.


"I should be Dr. Snyder by the time I defend my title in India
next year," he said. "But I hope one day to be better known for
the science and chemistry I do than for winning a championship,"
he added.

