

Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai on Saturday
said proposed South African-brokered talks with Harare might
offer the country a final chance out of its worsening economic
and political woes.


"The proposed dialogue might offer Zimbabwe one last chance,"
Tsvangirai told a news conference.


"Zimbabwe is at the crossroads ... (and) cannot continue to slide
further into chaos and abyss. Quite clearly a decisive end must
be found to the Zimbabwean crisis," he said.


African leaders this week hastily called an extraordinary summit
to discuss, among other thorny issues, the Zimbabwean crisis
following an international outcry after police crushed an anti-
government rally earlier this month.


Under the aegis of a 14-nation regional bloc, the Southern
African Development Community (SADC), the leaders appointed South
African President Thabo Mbeki to head efforts to promote dialogue
between the rival political parties in Zimbabwe.


"Such dialogue is as necessary as it is long overdue, but such
dialogue cannot take place under such conditions of thuggery and
violence against the opposition," said Tsvangirai.


Mbeki, who since 2000 had led several rounds of talks between the
country's foes in a bid to stem the collapsing economy and
troubled politics in Zimbabwe, has repeatedly been accused of
doggedly sticking to his softly-softly diplomatic approach while
the northern neighbour continues in crisis.


But Tsvangirai expressed guarded optimism the new attempt could
be different.


"I think this is a new initiative. I hope that he (Mbeki) seizes
this as a new initiative, not business as usual," said
Tsvangirai.


He said Mbeki, whose country bears much of the brunt of the
Zimbabwean economic crisis with a wave of illegal migrants
flocking to South Africa, must ensure clear-cut conditions for
the proposed talks.


"To avoid the cul-de-sac route that other previous efforts have
gone, Mbeki must take bold steps to outline an unambiguous
timetable for dialogue... a modus operandi which will guide the
process," said Tsvangirai.


He said dialogue, a new constitution, overhauling of "unjust"
electoral laws and free and fair elections under international
supervision "is the only hope for this country, in fact it is the
only viable political route."

