

Two potential Olympic finalists proved up to the lure of the
rainbow jersey on a record-setting day of action at the world
track cycling championships Saturday.


Australia's Anna Meares, the Olympic 500m champion, clocked
33.588secs for the two-lap event to beat her own world record by
nearly 0.4sec on her way to reclaiming the title she last won in
2004 in Melbourne.


But as she handed struggling Australia their first title on the
penultimate day, Britain struck another psychological blow in the
lead-up to Beijing 2008 by winning their fifth gold medal.


Given this season's blistering form Victoria Pendleton will be
one to watch in the Chinese capital's Olympic velodrome, where
she will be aiming for more than one gold medal.


The 26-year-old remained unbeaten over two days of tough
qualifying for the sprint final before confirming her recent
status as track's sprint queen by dominating Chinese star Shuang
Guo over two legs.


Meares then overcame a dizzy spell following her world record to
win the sprint bronze ahead of Lisandra Guerra of Cuba.


The 500 metre time trial, like the men's kilometre event, is no
longer part of the Olympic programme.


And that means Meares, who won sprint bronze in Athens in 2004,
is likely to race in the Olympic sprint and keirin in China,
where she is likely to come head to head with Pendleton.


After a tough season trying to regain confidence following last
year's back injury woes, Meares was bubbling with excitement
knowing she had finally made it back to the top.


"I was finding it hard to get anywhere near the kind of form I
had in Athens," she told AFP.


"So it's so good to come out here and see that I'm better than I
was in Athens. I'm stoked."


Meares was more inspired by the thought of reclaiming the rainbow
jersey, than setting a new world record, which she could
nevertheless smell before her finish.


"I felt that I was going very well. I kind of thought I was close
to Lisandra's time (34.015) in the first lap because I heard the
pitch of the crowd change, but I was solely focused on just
keeping that gear going.


"The rainbow jersey. It's so hard to get, and so sought after. I
just really wanted it," added Meares, who could hardly control
her emotions after crossing the finish line to beat her old mark
of 33.944.


Meares would be the first to admit that winning the sprint gold
is much harder than winning the 500 metres.


After qualifying, two rounds and possible repechages before even
getting to the quarter-finals and semis where two legs, and
sometimes a decider, are raced, the repeated bursts of pedal
power usually start to tell.


It was a sign of Pendleton's progress that she emerging unbeaten
over two tough days to secure her final spot before dominating
Guo with relative ease in the final.


She was also relieved at regaining the world crown, which she
last won in Los Angeles in 2005.


"Once you've had the world title and lost it, it's a big blow.
You have to get it back," said Pendleton, who won three events at
the Manchester leg of the World Cup in February to signal her
pre-competition form.


"I knew after Manchester that I was in the best form of my life,
so that gave me confidence to go out and try my best."


Pendleton's second gold of the competition after her team sprint
victory alongside fellow Englishwoman Shanaze Reade means Britain
have five golds after 12 events.


However more could be on their way on Sunday when the men's
sprint, kilometre and Madison races are held next to the women's
keirin and points races.


Britain's other golds came in the men's keirin, and the men's
individual and team pursuit.

