

Heavy artillery fire shook the Somali capital Saturday for the
third straight day, barring residents inside their homes as
Ethiopian troops fought pitched battles against Islamist
insurgents.


With casualties mounting from the worst fighting the city has
seen in 15 years, hundreds of fresh Ethiopian soldiers were on
their way to Mogadishu to reinforce their battle-strapped troops,
witnesses said.


A battalion of armed forces has already passed through the
central Somali town of Beledweyne, 355 kilometres (220 miles)
north of the capital, they said.


"At least a battalion of Ethiopian troops who are fully equipped
are on their way to Mogadishu and passed already Beledweyne,"
resident Ahmed Madobe Osman told AFP. "They were supported by
heavy war machines."


An additional 20 vehicles laden with military equipment and
troops passed through the town of Afgoye, 30 kilometers south of
Mogadishu, en route to the capital, resident Ahmed Mansour said.


Fighting in the capital intensified on Friday after rebels shot
down an Ethiopian helicopter gunship, killing the two-man crew,
while the Ethiopian government said its offensive has claimed the
lives of 200 insurgents.


"We don't know where to go. We are trapped in our houses and dead
bodies are lying in the street," Mogadishu resident Ibrahim Duale
despaired.


"There is no chance of taking the wounded and dead people because
of the heavy artillery and anti-aircraft weapons. It is still
continuing and we cannot tell exactly the number of dead. I have
seen at least seven bodies and they all lived in the
neighbourhood," he said.


The Ethiopians launched their offensive Thursday against the
remnants of an Islamist movement it helped the Somali
transitional government topple earlier this year which has
continued to carry out guerrilla-style attacks.


The fighting shattered a feeble six-day ceasefire with the
powerful Hawiye clan which has controlled Mogadishu since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


The death toll was the highest since the start of the year, with
an AFP count Saturday based on witness and hospital reports
bringing the number to 62 dead since Thursday.


Expressing concern over the high number of civilian casualties,
the Geneva-based International Committee of the Red CrossICRC
said in a statement: "The population of Mogadishu is caught up in
the worst fighting in more than 15 years."


"We have never seen such fighting, it's the worst ever seen in
Mogadishu," resident Habibo Hasan told AFP by telephone.


"I heard that neighbours had been killed but I cannot go out to
look, I'm just using the phone," Hassan said.


The downing of the helicopter and the dragging of dead soldiers
through the streets this past week carried dark echoes of a
failed UN-backed US peace operation in Somalia in the early
1990s.


The effort to assert power in the failed state is the latest of
14 attempts to restore a functional government in Somalia.


In a statement released Saturday, Human Rights Watch accused the
governments of Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia and the US of secretly
detaining hundreds of people fleeing the deadly conflict in
Somalia.


"Each of these governments has played a shameful role in
mistreating people fleeing a war zone," said Georgette Gagnon,
HRW's deputy Africa director.


The rights panel detailed "arbitrary detention, expulsion and
apparent enforced disappearance of dozens of individuals who fled
the fighting" between Ethiopia- backed Somali troops and the
powerful Islamist movement from December through January 2007.

