

A Paul Scholes-inspired recovery saw Manchester United blitz
Blackburn with four second-half goals on Saturday as the Red
Devils edged another step closer to reclaiming the Premiership
title.


Scholes proved the missing spark United had so sorely lacked in
the first period as he took over the game after the interval,
orchestrating his team's comeback from a goal down to win 4-1.


His driving play from deep helped create a pair of chances for
Wayne Rooney, a difficult header which flew just wide and a low
shot which was well saved by Brad Friedel, before Scholes himself
struck a brilliant 61st-minute equaliser.


The goal came from a rare Blackburn mistake as defender
Christopher Samba dallied on the ball on the edge of the Rovers
area and was stripped of it by Scholes.


The former England midfield player still had much work to day but
skipped past Ryan Nelsen and Stephen Warnock before beating the
American keeper with a superbly-driven shot.


It was a cruel way for Blackburn to surrender the lead given the
discipline and organisation they had shown in stifling United and
taking a 29th minute lead through Matt Derbyshire.


But worse was to follow as United, clearly sensing victory,
pressed on. In the 66th minute, Cristiano Ronaldo might have
edged United in front as David Dunn gifted him a chance only for
Friedel to make a superb save as the Portuguese winger bore down
on goal.


Even more incredibly, Ryan Giggs had an open goal before him as
he met Ronaldo's 67th minute left-wing cross but battered his
shot against the cross-bar with such force that it rebounded to
safety.


However, United's winner looked inevitable, as did the fact that
Ronaldo would play a part in it, and it came after 72 minutes and
another marauding, tricky run down the left hand by-line by the
winger.


His cross somehow evaded the players in a packed area but flew to
the back of the box where the lurking Michael Carrick was able to
steady himself and choose his spot, scoring with a precise
finish.


An eventually comfortable victory was added to in the 82nd minute
when Friedel performed magnificently in keeping out Ronaldo's
vicious free-kick only for Park Ji-Sung to net the rebound.


The final goal of an emphatic victory came in the final minute of
normal time as unmarked substitute Ole Gunnar Solskjaer met
Park's cross and rammed the ball home.


It was a rousing comeback from United who must have been
concerned that Derbyshire's strike would do serious damage to
their bid to hold off Chelsea in the title race.


The visitors' goal came from a Morten Gamst Pedersen cross which
Carrick, sliding in to steer the ball behind, only succeeded in
directing on his own goal. After Edwin van der Sar had saved well
at the foot of his post, Derbyshire reacted quickly to force the
ball over the line.


Rooney should have equalised after Friedel fumbled a Ronaldo shot
into his path but the American goalkeeper recovered to pull off a
superb block.


If that was a poor miss by the England centre-forward, worse was
to follow in the 24th minute when he appeared on the end of Ryan
Giggs's superb far post ball with conversion appearing a
formality.


However, Rooney first miskicked entirely, a delay that allowed
Friedel to recover and make another desperation block from the
forward's follow-up attempt.


Seconds later, United's problems mounted as Nemanja Vidic went up
for a header with Dunn and Nelsen, falling awkwardly and
suffering a suspected fracture of his collar bone which led to
him being stretchered off and replaced by John O'Shea.


At that stage, the game, and possibly even the season, appeared
to be unravelling for United. However, the Scholes-inspired
second half comeback ensured his team maintain their crucial
advantage at the summit of the Premiership.

