

A British oil worker was kidnapped Saturday in Nigeria from an
offshore rig in the western Niger delta, which was the target of
a raid last year, an industry source said.


"The attack happened this morning, in the early hours. A Briton
was seized", he said.


A spokesman for Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that London
was "aware of an incident in which a British national was
abducted.


"The incident occurred in the early hours of this morning. We're
urgently in touch with the Nigerian authorities," he said.


The rig, the Bulford Dolphin, is operated by a Nigerian company,
Peak Petroleum Industries Nigeria Ltd. and owned by Equator
Exploration Ltd., a London-based company, industry sources said.


"The attackers boarded a supply vessel nearby and climbed up the
leg of the rig. It was apparently local people", the source said.


In June the Bulford Dolphin was the target of the first raid on a
deepwater installation in southern Nigeria. Eight foreign workers
were seized -- six Britons, a Canadian and an American -- and
later released.


"It was the first deepwater raid. Until then everyone had thought
deepwater stuff was safe," a security advisor said.


Since the start of this year, about 60 foreigners have been
kidnapped in Nigeria, as many as were abducted during the whole
of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, were
abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom money
and armed groups with a political agenda.


Groups such as the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger
Delta (MEND), which recently held two Italian hostages for three
months, say they are seeking a fairer distribution of Nigeria's
oil revenues.


The last two hostages taken in southern Nigeria, an Indian and a
Lebanese, were released March 25 after a few days in captivity.


But there is still no news of a Dutch man kidnapped March 23 from
Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil capital, in the southern Rivers
State, despite the deployment of military search parties to look
for him.


And two Chinese nationals abducted on March 17 in the
southeastern state of Anambra also remain missing.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars last year, according to
officials.


President Olusegun Obasanjo and his government regularly seek to
assure foreign diplomats that the security situation in the Niger
delta is not as bad as people make out.


On Tuesday Obasanjo offered an amnesty to militant youths in the
region who renounce violence.


He promised "genuine amnesty" for those who turn over a "new leaf
and hand over their weapons," although he added that he would
"not give amnesty to somebody who will point a gun at the head of
somebody."


A MEND spokesman dismissed the offer as "hollow words" and said
his group would in the days to come "show the Nigerian government
what we think of this offer".

