

Darren Bent kept Charlton's surge to Premiership safety on course
as his late penalty clinched a 1-0 win against relegation rivals
Wigan on Saturday.


Alan Pardew's side were set for a frustrating stalemate until
Fitz Hall was adjudged to have fouled Marcus Bent four minutes
from full-time. Darren Bent calmly drove home the spot-kick to
send The Valley faithful wild with his 12th goal of the season.


Charlton are now just one point behind fourth-from-bottom
Sheffield United after a perfectly-timed, four-match, unbeaten
run.


Wigan will be fearing the worst after a hardly-deserved defeat
that leaves them looking nervously at Charlton, who are only a
win away from Paul Jewell's side.


If Pardew can keep Charlton up it will complete a remarkable
revival from a team that looked dead and buried when he took over
at Christmas.


With so much at stake it was no surprise that both teams looked
nervous and were content to play a cautious game in the first
half. As a result chances were at a premium.


Dennis Rommedahl tried his luck with a looping drive after he an
initially miscontrolled Bent's pass, but John Filan saved
comfortably.


It took a brave block from Scott Carson to keep Charlton on level
terms when the on-loan Liverpool goalkeeper sprinted off his line
to deny Caleb Folan after he had sprinted clear of Souleymane
Diawara.


Charlton were bouyed by a three-match unbeaten run that had
breathed fresh life into the London club's survival bid and they
should have been ahead midway through the half.


Chinese midfielder Zheng Zhi squandered a chance to put the hosts
in front when he weakly scuffed a shot straight at Filan after
Wigan had failed to clear.


Pardew had warned his players that Wigan would not come for a
draw and he was proved correct as the Latics gradually took
control.


Matt Jackson gave warning of their attacking intent when he
looped a header over from Ryan Taylor's cross.


It was left-back Leighton Baines who came closest to breaking the
deadlock when his free-kick scraped a post just before half-time.


Wigan were back in the ascendency after the break and Lee
McCulloch almost connected with Folan cross, before Baines shot
just wide from long range.


Folan saw a fierce strike blocked by Luke Young as Jewell's team,
who were unbeaten in their previous four matches, looked the more
likely winners for long periods.


But when Bent went to ground after a challenge from Hall, referee
Peter Walton pointed to the spot and the Charlton forward picked
himself up to beat Filan and end Wigan's run of 421 minutes
without conceding a goal.


Walton's decision had looked generous to Charlton and Jewell
furiously berated the official at full-time, but the damage had
been done.

