

Brazil struggled Saturday to get its air transport running again
after making a deal with air traffic controllers whose strike
left South American giant's airports in chaos.


Thousands of passengers remained stranded at airports on Saturday
a half-day after government ministers and unions for the
controllers reached an agreement to end the hours-old walkout in
an emergency meeting late Friday.


Long queues snaked outside airport halls, particularly in Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo, after nearly one hundred domestic and
international flights were scrubbed and many more were hit by
lengthy delays.


Infraero, the state airport authority, said Saturday that of the
704 scheduled flights between midnight Friday and 10:30 am
Saturday, 91 flights had been cancelled and 148 were delayed more
than one hour.


Brazilian carrier GOL asked its passengers not to turn up at
terminals after the strike effectively closed down 49 of the
country's 67 airports, according to Infraero.


"The situation will not return to normal before three days,"
Infraero head Jose Carlos Pereira told reporters as he arrived in
Brasilia for an emergency meeting Saturday afternoon with Defense
Secretary Waldir Pires.


He called on passengers to "be patient."


Under the accord ending the strike, the government agreed to
suspend planned transfers of workers from the airport of
Brasilia, the capital, to other parts of the country; to raise
salaries and to start talks on "demilitarizing" the industry.


The Brazilian military has strong control over traffic in the
country's airspace, and most air traffic controllers technically
work for it.


The conflict reached a boiling point late Friday when the
controllers walked off the job, forcing Infraero to cancel all
takeoffs across the country of 190 million.


Pereira acknowledged the government's response to problems in the
air transport sector had been slow. He also blamed a shortage of
aircraft for problems in Brazil's air network.


"Brazil still lacks airplanes. There is a shortage of 40 to 50
Boeing airplanes in the country," he said.


Brazil's air transport system has been in crisis for six months,
since controllers started working to rule over demands for more
controllers to be hired and for the entire flight management
system to be upgraded.


These calls were prompted last September by the worst air tragedy
in Brazilian history. On September 29 a GOL airlines Boeing 737
collided with a private jet and plunged to the ground, killing
all 154 people aboard.


Controllers threatened to go on a hunger strike and stop work to
press their latest demands. When some started following through,
authorities demanded the controllers get back to work or face
penalties.


Eighteen controllers were ordered arrested for walking off the
job and holed up at their workplaces, Globo television reported.


One passenger died during the strike, at an airport in Curitiba
in southern Brazil, airport authorities said. Ferrero Mosca, had
been due to fly on Friday evening but his flight was delayed. He
died early Saturday morning of unknown causes.


The strike took place while Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula
da Silva, himself a former labor leader, was visiting the United
States for talks Saturday with President George W. Bush.


But according to a television report, Lula called top defense and
airline industry officials and urged them to step back from a
confrontation with the strikers.

