

Heavy artillery fire shook the Somali capital Saturday for the
third consecutive day, barring residents from leaving their homes
as Ethiopian troops fought pitched battles against Islamist
insurgents.


Following a brief lull overnight, explosions began anew at 2:30
am (2330 GMT Friday) with fresh casualities piling up in
Mogadishu's streets, already littered with corpses in the worst
fighting the city has seen in 15 years.


"We don't know where to go. We are trapped in our houses and dead
bodies are lying in the street," a resident in the southern Ali
Kamin area, Ibrahim Duale, told AFP.


"There is no chance of taking the wounded and dead people because
of the heavy artillery and anti-aircraft weapons. It is still
continuing and we cannot tell exactly the number of dead. I have
seen at least seven bodies and they all lived in the
neighbourhood," he said.


Fighting intensified in Mogadishu Friday when rebels shot down an
Ethiopian helicopter gunship, killing the two-man crew, while the
Ethiopian government claims its offensive has taken the lives of
200 insurgents.


Cityscapes in the lawless seaside capital have sustained heavy
damage, as buildings collapsed into piles of rubble and smoke.


"The whole area is demolished, totally demolished," another
despairing resident, Ali Hasan, said.


"You can see smoke coming out of everywhere and people are
confused. They don't have anywhere to run."


The Ethiopians launched their offensive Thursday against the
remnants of an Islamist movement it helped the Somali
transitional government topple earlier this year but which has
continued to carry out guerrilla-style attacks.


The fighting shattered a feeble six-day ceasefire with the
powerful Hawiye clan which has controlled Mogadishu since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


The death toll was the highest since the start of the year, with
an AFP count Saturday based on witness and hospital reports
bringing the number to 62 dead since Thursday.


Expressing concern over the high number of civilian casualties,
the Geneva-based International Committee of the Red Cross said in
a statement: "The population of Mogadishu is caught up in the
worst fighting in more than 15 years."


"We have never seen such fighting, it's the worst ever seen in
Mogadishu," resident Habibo Hasan told AFP by telephone.


"I heard that neighbours had been killed but I cannot go out to
look, I'm just using the phone," Hassan said.


The downing of the helicopter and the dragging of dead soldiers
through the streets this past week carried dark echoes of a
failed UN-backed US peace operation in Somalia in the early
1990s.


The attempt to assert power in the failed state is the latest of
14 efforts to restore a functional government in Somalia.


In a statement released Saturday, Human Rights Watch accused the
governments of Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia and the United States of
secretly detaining hundreds of people fleeing the deadly conflict
in Somalia.


"Each of these governments has played a shameful role in
mistreating people fleeing a war zone," said Georgette Gagnon,
HRW's deputy Africa director.


"Kenya has secretly expelled people, the Ethiopians have caused
dozens to disappear, and US security agents have routinely
interrogated people held incommunicado," he added.


The rights panel detailed "arbitrary detention, expulsion and
apparent enforced disappearance of dozens of individuals who fled
the fighting" between Ethiopia- backed Somali troops and the
powerful Islamist movement from December through January 2007.

