

Craig Dargo's late strike salvaged a 1-1 draw for 10 man
Inverness Caledonian Thistle against Rangers at Ibrox - on a day
Scottish Premier League leaders Celtic also dropped points.


Walter Smith's Rangers looked to be strolling to victory on
Saturday after Charlie Adam scored a 15th minute free-kick to put
them ahead, following Darren Dods's sending-off.


However, Dargo scored an 82nd minute equaliser to hand Charlie
Christie's side a share of the points.


League leaders Celtic had earlier been held to a 1-1 draw away to
Dundee United, but they stay 13 points ahead of Rangers with only
six games to play.


And with third placed Aberdeen winning 2-1 away to Kilmarnock, to
move to within five points of Rangers, the race for the runners-
up spot is still very much on.


At Ibrox Rangers had almost taken the lead in the sixth minute
when Barry Ferguson's shot from 12-yards required Caley
goalkeeper Michael Fraser to dive low to his left to tip the ball
around the post.


In the 14th minute Inverness were reduced to 10 men when referee
William Collum showed Dods a straight red card after he barged
into Kris Boyd as he chased a high ball into the penalty box.


To make matters worse for the visitors, Rangers scored from the
subsequent free- kick a minute later.


Adam's left-foot strike from 20-yards curled over the wall and
into the corner of the net, leaving Fraser stranded.


Despite the extra man, Rangers struggled to create any further
clear cut chances in the first half.


An Adam shot on the turn in the 40th minute, which whistled just
wide, was the closest they came to doubling their lead before the
break.


The home side continued to dominate in the second half and Boyd
almost scored their second in the 62nd minute.


Rangers' top goalscorer ran on to Croatian striker Dado Prso's
flick and fired the ball goalwards from six-yards, only for
Fraser to make a fine point-blank save.


Caley almost snatched an equaliser in the 75th minute when
Russell Duncan's long range chip required Rangers goalkeeper
Allan McGregor to tip over.


But in the 82nd minute the visitors did score a sensational
leveller.


Richard Hastings's cross from the left was headed back across
goal by Graham Bayne and Dargo smashed the ball home from close
range to the delight of the small band of Caley fans in the
50,278 crowd.


Earlier in the day Celtic continued their stumble towards the
title after being held to a 1-1 draw at Dundee United, following
defeats to Rangers and Falkirk.


Japanese international Shunsuke Nakamura had put Gordon
Strachan's side ahead with a second half free-kick and all three
points looked to be heading back to Glasgow when United had Barry
Robson sent-off.


However, the Tannadice team scored a last gasp equaliser through
John Daly for a share of the points.


Aberdeen continued their push for second place with a 2-1 win
away to Kilmarnock. Killie's James Fowler scored an own goal to
put the Dons ahead before Russell Anderson scored a second.
Steven Naismith scored from the penalty spot late on for the home
side.


Motherwell won 2-0 at home to bottom of the table Dunfermline.


Australian international Scott McDonald, who signed a pre-
contract agreement with Celtic in midweek, scored both goals in
the second half - the first from the penalty spot.


And Falkirk won 2-0 at home to second bottom St Mirren, who stay
six points ahead of the Pars. Portuguese player Pedro Moutinho
put the home side ahead and Stephen O'Donnell doubled their lead
before the break.

