

West Indies players union chief Dinanath Ramnarine on Saturday
joined skipper Brian Lara in appealing for Caribbean fans to get
behind their team.


World Cup matches have been played out in front of a series of
barely half-full stadiums with thousands of locals snubbing the
tournament claiming they have been priced out of the grounds.


"The West Indies have some key matches coming up in Guyana,
Grenada and Barbados and I would like to see a full house at all
those games as we had in Jamaica," said West Indies Players'
Association (WIPA) president Ramnarine, a former Test player.


"The crowd will be a vital 12th man for our team. The kind of
support for which West Indians fans are renowned can be a huge
motivating factor and it was in evidence for the games against
Pakistan, Zimbabwe and Ireland (in Kingston).


"It's time for us to truly rally around the West Indies. They
need us and we want them to win this World Cup at home."


The West Indies, having lost both their Super Eights matches so
far to Australia and New Zealand, face elimination from the World
Cup if they lose to Sri Lanka at Providence here on Sunday.


Officials here claim that 12,000 of the 14,000 seats in the
Guyana National Stadium have been sold for Sunday's match.


But at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium in Antigua, which holds
19,000 people, only 9,000 turned up to see the West Indies lose
to Australia on Tuesday.


"It was very disappointing," said Lara. "You sit back and you
think at least every single game the West Indies play is going to
be a full house.


"I don't know what to put my finger on as the problem but again
we've just got to focus on the cricket and hopefully the people
will come out."


Cricket World Cup commercial director Stephen Price said it was
too soon to say why the Antigua public hadn't turned up but he
rejected suggestions that with tickets for the Windies-Australia
clash ranging from 25 US dollars to 100 US dollars, that local
fans were priced out of the market.


"I really disagree with that. This was a collaborative process
across the region and all the local organising committees had an
input.


"Tickets are definitely not out of reach. There are plenty of
lower category seats available."

