

Voters in Benin went to the polls Saturday in legislative
elections seen as a test for President Boni Yayi one year after
he took office pledging to fight corruption in the impoverished
west African country.


The election was originally set for March 25. But on the eve of
the vote, the Constitutional Court decided to delay the polls by
one week due to difficulties in organising them.


Voting operations started more or less on time in the commercial
capital Cotonou and the northern regions of the country. But in
the administrative capital Porto Novo, local media reported that
voting had been delayed by several hours.


"We started voting at 10:30 because it took us a long time to
receive the voting material", the official in charge of a polling
station in Ouando told a private radio station.


In Djassin, a poor district of Porto Novo, voting got underway at
11:00 am (10:00 GMT) or in some cases at 12 noon, polling station
supervisors said.


And even in Cotonou, where voting started on time, it went slowly
for the first half of the day at many stations.


At Tanto primary school at midday for example, around 100 voting
papers were visible in each ballot box by 11:00 am.


"For the moment the vote is being held in a calm and disciplined
manner, apart from a slight delay in some polling stations", said
Christian Azon, a poll observer from the NGO Humanity, Life and
Advice.


"For me this is an occasion for celebration and I thank all the
political forces in our country who are aware of the importance
of this vote", Boni Yayi said after casting his ballot in
Cotonou.


Some four million people are eligible to vote in the election
that will choose 83 members of the legislature from among 2,158
candidates from 26 political parties and groups.


Sources close to the national electoral commission said Saturday
the first official results will be made public "in several days'
time".


More than 200 observers, both from Benin and from abroad, have
been deployed across the country.


The election is seen as test of support for Boni Yayi, a virtual
political unknown who was the surprise winner of the presidential
poll in March last year.


Elected with 74 percent of the vote, former banker Yayi made
"change", economic growth and the fight against corruption the
major planks of his campaign.


He said Saturday that the polls were "a step towards the rule of
law,astep towards the construction of a major democracy in the
service of a nation stengthened in the search for prosperity."


Some 20 parties that back the new president have grouped together
to form the Cauri Forces for an Emerging Benin (FCBE).


FCBE candidates are up against both the Democratic Renewal party
(PRD), loyal to Adrien Houngbedji, the loser in last March's
presidential election, and another grouping known as the Alliance
for Dynamism and Democracy (ADD).


ADD is loyal to Nicephore Soglo, a former president and currently
mayor of Cotonou.


Boni Yayi inherited one of the world's poorest nations. Benin has
few commercial crops except cotton and that sector is currently
in difficulty. The country's economic crisis as a whole has been
consistently aggravated by corruption and poor management of
public funds.


The new president is popular with the man in the street but his
anti-corruption drive, and notably the audits he has ordered into
60 state-run companies, have made him unpopular with some of the
old guard.


He took over from General Mathieu Kerekou, who had dominated the
political scene in Benin for the past 30 years, first as a
military ruler and then as a democratically-elected head of
state.


Two weeks ago Yayi's convoy came under attack while he was up-
country. He himself was unharmed but four members of the
presidential guard were wounded by the gunmen. Six suspects have
been arrested in connection with the incident.


Polls opened starting from 7:00 am and are scheduled to close at
4:00 pm. There are more than 15,300 polling stations across the
country.

