

Bowl straight and move the ball away late from the batsman have
been instructions handed down by generations of cricket coaches
to pace bowlers.


But few have followed them quite so thoroughly as Australia's
Glenn McGrath who on Saturday beat Wasim Akram's record of 55
World Cup wickets.


The New South Welshman, who will retire from international
cricket after the World Cup, has been renowned throughout his
career for his remorseless accuracy and fondness for publicly
targeting opponents' key batsmen.


Yet away from the field, the 37-year-old is said to be a much
quieter, reserved man.


Born in the country town of Dubbo, New South Wales, McGrath lived
in a caravan when he first came to Sydney to try to make it in
state cricket.


He soon worked out a method that would help him become the most
successful fast bowler in Test history.


Realising he would never be as fast as a Dennis Lillee or Jeff
Thomson, McGrath settled instead for the disciplines of line and
length.


Although not the quickest, McGrath was soon developing the
ability to move the ball away at a sufficiently sharp pace to
trouble the world's best batsmen.


Called up by Australia in 1993 as a replacement for Merv Hughes,
McGrath never looked back and became a key member of one of the
most successful cricket teams of all time.


In particular he was soon making a speciality of claiming the
wicket of Michael Atherton in Ashes contests at a time when the
opener was England's batting rock.


McGrath's accuracy proved a particular asset in one-day cricket.


He helped Australia reach the 1996 World Cup final, where they
lost to Sri Lanka, before starring in their victorious 1999 and
2003 campaigns, the last featuring a record-breaking seven for 15
against minnows Namibia.


There were doubts about his future when he returned from ankle
surgery in 2004 and two years later when he returned from a break
when he was looking after his wife, Jane, who has suffered
several bouts of cancer.


And it is his wife's health and a desire to spend more time with
their children that have sparked his retirement.


Only ocassionally have McGrath's boasts not been backed up by
events. Before the 2005 Ashes he predicted a 5-0 whitewash for
the men in baggy green caps. Instead England won the series 2-1.


In common with many other quicks, McGrath's age has been held
against him the longer his career has gone on and he was one of
the "Dad's Army", England great Ian Botham had in mind when he
taunted the Australians about the several '30-somethings' in
their squad ahead of the last Ashes campaign.


McGrath, who by then had long since surpassed West Indian
Courtney Walsh's mark of 519 Test wickets, responded with 21
wickets at an average of 23.90 as Australia regained the Ashes
5-0.


And on his home Sydney Cricket Ground, McGrath bowed out of Test
cricket by taking a wicket with his last ball when he dismissed
James Anderson.


That left him with a Test record of 563 wickets from 124 matches
at 21.64.


But perhaps even more indelible was the attitude displayed by
McGrath, who occasionally would stand with hands on hips and pass
a comment or two to a batsman who'd had the temerity to hit him
for four, and fellow bowling great Shane Warne who also retired
from Test cricket after the Sydney Ashes clash.


"He's a very proud man, Glenn," Australia captain Ricky Ponting
told reporters here Friday.


"He actually had a dig at me the other day for not bowling him at
the tail against the West Indies because he wanted a couple more
wickets.


"When it's big game time it's generally the Warnes and McGraths
and those sorts of guys that really stand up."


But few "guys" rank alongside the Australian duo.

