

Peter Crouch hit a classic hat-trick as Liverpool launched their
new era under new American ownership in style with a 4-1
hammering of Arsenal at Anfield on Saturday.


The giant England striker marked his return from a broken nose
with three well- taken goals while Danish defender Daniel Agger
also found the net to help Rafa Benitez's side leapfrog Arsenal
into third spot in the table ahead of next Tuesday's Champions
League quarter-final with PSV Eindhoven.


It was just the performance Benitez had demanded with new owners
Tom Hicks and George Gillett sitting in the directors box after
completing their takeover of the Merseyside club earlier in the
week.


Arsenal were second-best throughout and now face the real threat
of ending the season outside the top three for only the second
time since Arsene Wenger took charge of the London club 11 years
ago.


Having been knocked out of both the FA Cup and League Cup by
Arsenal in the space of a few days in January, Liverpool were
looking to prevent Wenger's side from becoming the first club to
beat them at home three times in one season.


Liverpool had failed to score in their previous three outings yet
found themselves ahead as early as the fourth minute as Crouch
made a memorable return from injury.


The striker side-footed home from close range after good work
from former Arsenal winger Jermaine Pennant allowed Spanish full-
back Alvaro Arbeloa to fire in a low cross to the near post.


Arsenal's season effectively finished when they were eliminated
from the Champions League by PSV Eindhoven earlier in the month
and they spent most of the game as though their minds were
already drifting towards the summer break.


Jose Reina did not have a save to make before half time although
the Liverpool keeper was relieved to see Emmanuel Adebayor's
powerful 17th minute header land on the roof of the net moments
after Jamie Carragher's crucial challenge had denied Julio
Baptista a chance to equalise.


Liverpool's slick passing and eagerness to press forward at every
opportunity had Arsenal pinned inside their own half for long
periods and it required a superb stop by Lens Lehmann to prevent
the excellent Crouch from making it 2-0 in the 22nd minute.


Having seen their side concede 12 goals to Arsenal in three games
at Anfield earlier in the season, this was just the response
Liverpool fans had demanded.


William Gallas came to his side's rescue when he cut out Mark
Gonzalez's 25th minute centre with Crouch lurking dangerously
inside the Arsenal area before the busy Crouch continued his
superb match by firing across the face of goal with the visitors
defence chasing shadows.


However Crouch did not have to wait long for his 15th goal of the
season, the seven-million-pound signing from Southampton leaping
high to nod Fabio Aurelio's cross beyond the reach of Lehmann to
seal the points in the 35th minute.


Arsenal's cause was not helped when Lehmann allowed his
frustration to boil over, the German keeper booked for arguing
with the referee at the end of the first half.


Wenger's side almost reduced the deficit when Adebayor let fly in
the 54th minute only for his effort to hit the post before Agger
sealed an impressive Liverpool victory.


He took his tally for the season to three after flicking
Aurelio's free-kick beyond Lehmann in the 60th minute.


Arsenal pulled a goal back 12 minutes later through Gallas, who
bundled the ball over the line after Reina had parried Adebayor's
effort.


But there was no way back for Arsenal and Crouch completed his
first hat-trick for the club after a superb piece of footwork in
the box allowed him to collect a Pennant cross and evade the
attention of two Arsenal defenders before firing a left-foot shot
past Lehmann.

