

Serena Williams stormed back from a set down to triumph 0-6, 7-5,
6-3 over world No. 1 Justine Henin here Saturday to claim her
fourth career title in the 6.9 million-dollar Sony Ericsson Open.


"It's just not in me to give up," said Williams, who showed a
steely resolve in saving two match points in the 10th game of the
second set.


Playing her first tournament since her improbable Australian Open
triumph in January, Williams broke Henin in the 12th game of the
second set to force the deciding third set.


This time it was Williams who took charge, breaking Henin in the
second game en route to a 3-0 lead.


Henin put the set back on serve with a break in the fifth game,
but Williams broke again for a 5-3 lead and a chance to serve for
the match.


But inconsistency struck the American again, and she was quickly
in a 0-40 hole. She battled back, with two stinging backhands and
a service winner, and took the match with a line-kissing second
serve on her first match point.


Williams added the title to the Miami crowns she won in 2002,
2003 and 2004.


Henin, who overtook Maria Sharapova atop the world rankings on
Monday, had arrived in Miami buoyed by tournament victories in
Dubai and Qatar.


The 24-year-old, who skipped the Australian Open in January
because of personal troubles, had never made it past the quarter-
finals here, but appeared poised to make the most of her first
finals appearance when she raced through the opening set.


Williams failed to muster even a game point on her own serve
until the fifth game, when Henin battled back from 40-15 to get
the break and serve for the set.


A forehand wide on her first set point was the first noticeable
miscue from the Belgian, and Williams dug in to save two more set
points before Henin pocketed the set when Williams fired a
backhand wide.


"She's a real fighter," Henin said. "At the end she was better
than me, she was really focused on every point. I gave my best
but it wasn't enough."


In the ATP Masters Series men's final on Sunday, unseeded
Guillermo Canas of Argentina will face 10th-seeded teen Novak
Djokovic of Serbia.

