

Tens of thousands of Ukrainians rallied in Kiev Saturday to
support or oppose a threatened dissolution of parliament by pro-
Western President Viktor Yushchenko after months of conflict with
his pro-Russian prime minister.


About 20,000 supporters of the pro-Russian government coalition
were the first to march against a dissolution, before meeting on
central Europe Square.


Carrying blue and white flags of the pro-governmental Regions
party, marchers held up signs reading "Do not allow a dissolution
of parliament" and "Dissolution of parliament is a crime".


Tens of thousands of pro-Western supporters of the opposition
presidential parties Our Ukraine and Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc, which
demand the president dissolve parliament and hold early
elections, gathered on the main square of Kiev, the Maidan,
despite a court ruling banning protests there.


The meeting of the opposition forces started with a concert of
Ukrainian rock groups which was to be followed by speeches of
opposition leaders.


President Yushchenko has repeatedly warned pro-Russian forces
that he would dissolve parliament if they failed to respect
earlier agreements and abide by the Constitution.


If the parliamentary majority "does not return to working in
accordance with the constitution I will sign a decree dissolving
parliament," Yushchenko told a congress of his party Saturday.


In comments on Saturday he called for a ban on deputies crossing
to the opposing side in parliament and that the government
support his pro-Western policies.


Yushchenko has accused the pro-Russian coalition that dominates
parliament of trying to "usurp power" by getting pro-Western
lawmakers to switch sides.


If the pro-Russian parliamentary majority accumulates 300 voices,
the coalition will be able to change the Constitution according
to their interests and to overcome all presidential vetoes.


Yushchenko and Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych have been at
loggerheads since the premier won parliamentary elections in
March last year.


Yushchenko had defeated Yanukovych when mass protests known as
the "orange revolution" forced a re-run of a flawed 2004
presidential election at which Yanukovych was originally declared
the winner.


The Ukrainian leader favours full integration of the ex-Soviet
republic with the West, including the NATO military alliance,
while Yanukovych, backed by Russian speakers from the east and
south, is opposed to NATO membership and favours links to Moscow.

