

Nine Zimbabwean opposition officials arrested during a midweek
crackdown were hospitalised Saturday for injuries suffered in
police custody, opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said.


"They were brutalised, one of them was in resuscitation, they are
in a bad shape but in high spirit," Tsvangirai said after
visiting them in hospital.


"Many of them suffered bruises around the abdomen," the leader of
the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) told AFP in an
interview.


Scores of MDC officials and supporters were arrested this week in
what police said was a clampdown on fire bombers accused of a
series of attacks across the southern African country.


The MDC has denied the accusations saying its members, charged
with attempted murder over the firebombing of a ruling ZANU-PF
office this week, were framed.


"We don't sanction or plan any bombings, we don't support
violence," Tsvangirai told a news conference earlier Saturday.


The officials, among them a lawmaker, were taken to hospital
after one of them allegedly collapsed while awaiting a hearing on
their application for bail at a magistrate court on Saturday.


Veteran President Robert Muagbe has in recent days come in for
wide condemnation by the West for the arrests and assaults of
senior members of the opposition as they tried to stage an anti-
government rally on March 11.


But addressing supporters in his native Shona language Friday
before his party meeting that endorsed his candidature for 2008
elections, Mugabe was unapologetic about a police assault on
Tsvangirai, saying he deserved it.


Earlier Tsvangirai expressed guarded optimism that proposed South
African- brokered talks between Harare and the opposition might
offer the country a final chance out of its worsening economic
and political woes.


"The proposed dialogue might offer Zimbabwe one last chance,"
Tsvangirai said.


"Zimbabwe is at the crossroads ... (and) cannot continue to slide
further into chaos and abyss. Quite clearly a decisive end must
be found to the Zimbabwean crisis," he said.


Southern African leaders this week appointed South African
President Thabo Mbeki to head efforts to promote dialogue between
the rival political parties in Zimbabwe, despite previous failed
attempts.


"Such dialogue is as necessary as it is long overdue, but such
dialogue cannot take place under such conditions of thuggery and
violence against the opposition," said Tsvangirai.


Mbeki, who since 2000 had led several rounds of talks between the
country's foes in a bid to stem the collapsing economy and
troubled politics in Zimbabwe, has repeatedly been accused of
doggedly sticking to his softly-softly diplomatic approach while
the northern neighbour continues in crisis.


"I hope that he (Mbeki) seizes this as a new initiative, not
business as usual," said Tsvangirai.


The opposition leader said dialogue, a new constitution, an
overhaul of "unjust" electoral laws and free and fair elections
under international supervision "is the only viable political"
solution.

