

Brazil struggled Saturday to get its air transport system running
again after making a deal with air traffic controllers whose
strike left ongoing chaos at the South American giant's airports.


The agreement to end the strike was reached late Friday at an
emergency meeting between government ministers and unions for the
controllers. But thousands of passengers remained stranded at
airports on Saturday.


Long queues snaked outside airport buildings, particularly in Rio
de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, as flights were canceled and lengthy
delays hit domestic and international departures.


Infraero, the state airport management agency, said Saturday that
of the 533 scheduled flights between midnight Friday and 10:30 am
Saturday, 22 flights had been cancelled and 101 were delayed more
than one hour.


The Brazilian carrier GOL asked its passengers not to turn up at
terminals after the strike effectively closed down 49 airports in
the country.


"The situation will not return to normal before three days," the
head of Infraero, Jose Carlos Pereira, told reporters as he
arrived in Brasilia for an emergency meeting Saturday afternoon
with Defense Secretary Waldir Pires.


He called on passengers to "be patient."


Under the accord ending the strike, the government agreed to
suspend planned transfers of workers from the airport of
Brasilia, the capital, to other parts of the country, and to
raise salaries and start talks on "demilitarizing" the industry.


The Brazilian military has strong control over traffic in the
country's airspace, and most air traffic controllers technically
work for it.


The conflict reached a boiling point Friday when Infraero
canceled all takeoffs across the country of 190 million, and said
that the only operations allowed were the landings of planes
already in flight.


Pereira acknowledged the government's response to problems in the
air transport sector had been slow. He also blamed a shortage of
aircraft for problems in Brazil's air network.


"Brazil still lacks airplanes. There is a shortage of 40 to 50
airplanes in the country," he said.


Brazil's air transport system has been in crisis for six months,
since controllers started working to rule over other demands: for
more controllers to be hired and for the entire flight management
system to be upgraded.


These calls were prompted last September by the worst air tragedy
in Brazilian history. A GOL airlines Boeing 737 collided with a
private jet and plunged to the ground, killing all 154 people
aboard.


Controllers threatened to go on a hunger strike and stop work to
press their latest demands. When some started following through,
authorities demanded the controllers get back to work or face
penalties.


Eighteen controllers were ordered arrested for walking off the
job and holed up at their workplaces, Globo television reported.


One passenger died at an airport in Curitiba, southern Brazil,
airport authorities said. The man, Ferrero Mosca, had been due to
fly on Friday evening but his flight was delayed. He died early
Saturday morning of unknown causes.


The strike negotiations took place while Brazilian President Luiz
Inacio Lula da Silva was out of the country, visiting the United
States, where he was scheduled to meet Saturday with President
George W. Bush.


But according to the report, Lula called top defense and airline
industry officials and urged them to step back from a
confrontation with the strikers.

