

Former Newcastle United target Emile Mpenza silenced a restless
St James's Park crowd as Manchester City claimed a 1-0 victory
which could safeguard the club's Premiership status.


A dire clash was settled in the 80th minute after Stuart Pearce's
February signing from Qatar scored his second goal in English
football, ensuring City stay six points clear of the relegation
zone.


Newcastle's first fixture following the club's exit from this
season's UEFA Cup was as much about salvaging pride as it was
about claiming three points in a Premiership campaign beset by
mediocrity.


United's increasingly disillusioned supporters deserve more than
another uninspiring mid-table finish but for the manager, Glenn
Roeder, the club's league run-in is all about rebuilding for next
season.


As a consequence there was no place in the Magpies' 16 for former
England Under 21 international Titus Bramble - out of contract in
the summer and widely believed to have played his last game in a
black and white shirt.


United States international Oguchi Onyewu was another high
profile absentee from Roeder's starting line-up as he paired
former Australia captain Craig Moore with Steven Taylor in the
centre of defence.


Ireland international Stephen Carr and Nigeria's Celestine
Babayaro completed Newcastle's back four with two of this
season's most unconvincing performers handed unexpected recalls.


But it was City who made the early running with Chinese full back
Sun Jihai keen to expose Babayaro's weaknesses before the break.


It was from the City right that the former Dalian Wanda favourite
launched a searching cross after 19 minutes and only the quick
thinking of Newcastle's ex- Peru captain Nolberto Solano
prevented Mpenza from pouncing.


The Belgian international had been earmarked by former Newcastle
manager Sir Bobby Robson as a replacement for Alan Shearer five
years earlier and after finally earning the right to play on
Tyneside, the forward appeared eager to impress.


In the 30th minute Mpenza fooled Taylor and moved the ball from
right foot to left before unleashing a fierce drive which rattled
Shay Given's crossbar.


United had been limited to a series of tame long-range efforts in
front of their restless fans but other than a 20-yard Solano
drive which fizzed past Andreas Isaksson's right hand post there
was nothing for another 50,000-plus crowd to cheer.


City's Swedish goalkeeper has struggled to stamp his authority on
Stuart Pearce's defence following his high profile switch from
French club Rennes but Newcastle's apathy in front of goal before
the break did little to weaken his brittle confidence.


Isaksson was equally comfortable in the second half and it was no
surprise when Mpenza drilled home a left-footed shot 10 minutes
from time.


Onyewu, on for the injured Moore, failed to track the former Al-
Rayyan forward as he raced onto Michael Johnson's through ball.
Mpenza drew Given before lifting the ball into an unguarded goal.


Taylor rattled the crossbar with a header in the dying stages and
Nicky Butt had a volley blocked on the line. But United left the
pitch to calls of anger and resentment from the bitter home
support.

