

Craig Dargo's late strike salvaged a 1-1 draw for 10 man
Inverness Caledonian Thistle against Rangers at Ibrox - on a day
Scottish Premier League leaders Celtic also dropped points.


Rangers looked to be strolling to victory on Saturday after
Charlie Adam scored a 15th minute free-kick to put them ahead,
following Darren Dods's sending-off.


However, Dargo scored an 82nd minute equaliser to hand Charlie
Christie's side a share of the points.


League leaders Celtic had earlier being held to a 1-1 draw away
to Dundee United, but they stay 13 points ahead of Rangers with
six games to play.


Japanese international Shunsuke Nakamura put Gordon Strachan's
side ahead with a second half free-kick, but United, who had
Barry Robson sent-off, scored a last gasp equaliser through John
Daly.


And third placed Aberdeen won 2-1 away to Kilmarnock, to move
within five points of Rangers and keep in the race for the
runners-up spot.


Gers manager Walter Smith admitted his side did not deserve to
beat Caley.


He said: "I'm disappointed with the result. We started well but
after the sending off we did not impose ourselves on the game in
the way we should have.


"We didn't create enough scoring opportunities and I have to say
we did not play well enough to win the game and cannot be
surprised Caley caught up with us."


Caley manager Christie was proud of his player's efforts and also
praised their ability.


He said: "After the sending off and the goal we were left with a
mountain to climb but we showed tremendous character to stay in
the game and it is an unbelievable result.


"I said to the players at half-time to keep themselves in the
game as we would get chances and thankfully that's what happened.


"I don't want to just talk about work rate as we've also shown a
lot of quality today and over the whole season."


In the 14th minute Inverness were reduced to 10 men when referee
William Collum showed Dods a straight red card for barging into
Kris Boyd, as he chased a high ball into the penalty box.


To make matters worse for the visitors, Rangers scored from the
resulting free- kick a minute later.


Adam's left-foot strike from 20-yards curled over the wall and
into the corner of the net, leaving Caley goalkeeper Michael
Fraser stranded.


Despite the extra man, Rangers struggled to create any further
clear cut chances in the first half.


Boyd almost scored their second in the 62nd minute, running on to
Croatian strike partner Dado Prso's flick and firing the ball
goalwards from six-yards, only for Fraser to make a fine point-
blank save.


Rangers were becoming increasingly desperate in their attempts to
kill the match off and in the 82nd minute they were punished for
their failure to do so.


Richard Hastings's cross from the left was headed back across
goal by Graham Bayne and Dargo smashed the ball home from close
range to the delight of the small band of Caley fans in the
50,278 crowd.


In the other SPL games Aberdeen were 2-1 winners away to
Kilmarnock, courtesy of an own goal from James Fowler and a
second from Russell Anderson, with Steven Naismith scoring from
the penalty spot for the home side.


Australian international striker Scott McDonald scored a brace to
give Motherwell a 2-0 win at home to bottom of the table
Dunfermline.


And Falkirk won 2-0 at home to second bottom St Mirren, who stay
six points ahead of the Pars. Portuguese player Pedro Moutinho
put the home side ahead and Stephen O'Donnell doubled their lead
before the break.

