

Fullback Julian Huxley scored all 14 points to help the ACT
Brumbies to a 14-9 win over the Lions in a close Super 14 match
here Saturday.


Huxley scored the only try of the match with six minutes
remaining to decide a thrilling, but error-strewn southern
hemisphere inter-provincial encounter.


The Lions from South Africa earned a bonus point for their
efforts. The men from Australia, who defended superbly in the
second period, moved up to fifth on the points table. The score
at the break was 6-6.


A tightly-contested first half produced few try-scoring
opportunities and the closest anyone came to crossing the line
was home team winger Louis Ludik in the 30th minute.


Only a superb tackle by Brumbies fullback Huxley prevented the
Lions man from going over in the right-hand corner. With so few
chances it was left to the team's respective kickers to get their
sides on the board.


Huxley struck with a penalty as early as the sixth minute, but
that was quickly cancelled out by Andre Pretorius after Huxley
was penalized for holding on to the ball at a ruck.


Huxley, however, made amends only minutes later when he put over
a 50 metre drop-goal, but Pretorius leveled matters again at the
halfway stage of the first period and it stayed that way until
the half-time break.


Both teams looked to play an expansive game, but some indifferent
handling, especially by the Lions, and some strong defence meant
neither side was able to get the upperhand.


The Lions' new-look midfield pairing of Doppies la Grange and
Jaco Pretorius were especially strong in bringing down the
Brumbies' runners where centre Adam Ashley-Cooper asked the most
questions with ball in hand, but not even his strong runs were
good enough to find a way through the Lions defences.


Despite the visitors striking first at the start of the second
period through another Huxley penalty, it was the home side who
slowly started gaining the ascendancy.


Playing on the highveld and following just a week after downing
the Coastal Sharks in Durban, the altitude appeared to take its
toll on the men from Canberra.


The Lions forwards, with hooker Ethienne Reynecke and lock Cobus
Grobler leading the charge, put the Brumbies on the back foot and
which allowed the likes of Andre Pretorius, Jaque Fourie and Jaco
van Schalkwyk to have a full go out wide.


They found plenty of holes in the visiting team's defences and
only sterling defence kept the Lions from scoring.


The home team, however, did win a penalty on 53 minutes which
allowed Pretorius to again level the scores, 9-9, and then with
15 minutes to go replacement scrumhalf Jano Vermaak found a way
through a clutch of bodies to dot down, only for referee Paul
Honnis to penalise the Lions for obstruction.


Having come away unscathed from the assault on their line it was
the Brumbies who were re-energised and it wasn't long before
fullback Huxley benefited from some poor Lions defending to go
over in the corner to give his side a five-point lead.


It stayed that way until the end allowing the Brumbies to move
into fifth spot in the table.

