

Britain's astonishing gold run at the world track cycling
championships is set to continue with another possible two gold
medals on the penultimate day here on Saturday.


Victoria Pendleton, the women's 2005 sprint champion and silver
medal winner last year, will bid to add a fifth British gold of
the competition when she faces Chinese ace Shuang Guo in the
final of the blue riband event.


Britain's Craig MacLean and Ross Edgar are also still in
contention for the sprint crown.


The Scots, who along with keirin world champion Chris Hoy were
part of the team that won sprint silver behind defending
champions France, will race in the quarter-finals later on
Saturday.


After winning individual and team pursuit gold, gold in the
women's team sprint and gold in the men's keirin, Britain are
setting a blistering pace in the medals table with four gold and
seven in total ahead of Saturday's four finals.


Their success is being eyed with envy from the Australian camp,
who blew away the competition at the Athens Olympics in 2004 with
five gold and nine medals in total but who are still hunting a
first gold here.


"(But) given the choice, I would prefer to have the big
performances and the big momentum that Britain have been having
here," said Australia's head coach Martin Barras after admitting
he was disappointed with some of his senior riders' displays.


Both Mark French and Ryan Bayley, the Olympic sprint and keirin
champion, were ousted from the sprint in their respective
repechages for the quarter-finals.


There are 17 months for all the track superpowers to get ready
for their Olympic showdown.


And at this point it appears Britain has the kind of strength in
depth to emulate the Aussies' record Olympic haul from 2004 in
the Chinese capital.


Meanwhile Pendleton, one of the fastest women in the world this
season and a major gold hope for Beijing in 2008, looks poised to
reclaim her sprint crown on Saturday.


She will not ride the women's 500 metre time trial, in which she
would normally have a chance of a medal, due to it being held the
same day as the sprint.


However former BMX ace Shanaze Reade, who combined with Pendleton
to win team sprint gold on Friday, will be hoping that win can
give her the confidence to cause an upset by getting in amongst
the medals.


Britain's former world points champion in 2002, Chris Newton,
meanwhile is nursing his disappointment after failing to qualify
for the men's points race final.


With 11 riders from the two heats qualifying for the final,
Newton finished 13th in heat two with four points.


The last of four finals on Saturday is the women's scratch, which
is held over 40km.

