

Japan formally launched Saturday a new, elite military unit to
counter terrorism and assist with the nation's growing defence
role overseas, in another step towards creating a full-fledged
military.


The 3,200-strong Central Readiness Force was formed last week,
some two months after officially pacifist Japan created its first
full-fledged defence ministry since World War II.


"The Central Readiness Force is a unit which symbolises the role
that is required of our country's defence capacity," Defence
Minister Fumio Kyuma said at a ceremony to launch the unit at
Camp Asaka in Tokyo's northwestern suburbs.


"It is equipped with high maneuverability to cope with new
threats and plays an important role in international cooperation
and activities for peace."


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, in a message read at the ceremony,
called on the unit to "be diligent in performing your duties with
self-awareness about the importance of your mission."


Abe has sought a larger military role for Japan and wants to
rewrite the pacifist constitution imposed by the United States
after World War II.


The unit will include specialists on biochemical weapons and a
sub-unit, to be operational by March next year, that can be
deployed to face terrorist attacks against Japanese cities.


It will also train troops on peacekeeping missions and serve as
an advance team for deployments overseas.


The 300-strong Special Operations Group, which was formed in 2004
on the model of the US army special missions groups Delta Force
and Green Beret, has also joined the new unit.


The group provided four of its members to guard the commander of
a Japanese force which was deployed in southern Iraq on a
reconstruction mission for some two and a half years until last
July.


Japan in January upgraded its overseas peace-keeping operations
to consider them a core mission of the armed forces.


Deployments abroad had earlier been considered "extraordinary,"
meaning that each one needed parliamentary approval.


Prime Minister Abe's cabinet on Tuesday approved the first
deployment since the change, sending a handful of defence
personnel to help monitor the ceasefire ending Nepal's civil war.

