

Turkey's Constitutional Court is set to review Monday the
legitimacy of a presidential vote that has led to a political
crisis in the Muslim majority but secular country.


More than one million people rallied in Istanbul on Sunday to
support secularism and voice their opposition to sole
presidential candidate Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul whose
Islamist background they fear.


Parliament held a first round of voting Friday, in which Gul, 56,
narrowly missed becoming the next head of state. A second round
is scheduled for Wednesday.


Within hours of Friday's vote, the army issued a statement saying
it was ready to take action to preserve the country's secular
identity. Gul's wife wears the Islamic headscarf, seen as a
symbol of political Islam, and he was once a member of a party
outlawed for Islamist activities.


The government sharply reminded the army that it takes orders
from the prime minister and Gul said he would not withdraw from
the race.


The Constitutional Court has been asked by the main opposition
Republican People's Party (CHP) to annul the presidential
election process on the grounds that not enough lawmakers were
present to make Friday's vote legal.


Turkey's constitution does not mention the quorum -- the number
of members legally required -- for a presidential vote.


The CHP is arguing that there should have been at least 367 of
the 550 lawmakers in the assembly on Friday since that is the
number set by the constitution to elect the president.


Due to the opposition boycott, the parliament only contained the
352 lawmakers that belong to Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan's ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP).


The Constitutional Court rapporteur is expected to have finished
his investigations and hand in his report later on Monday.


"We plan to make a decision on Tuesday, but the ruling could also
come out Wednesday morning," Tulay Tugcu, President of the
Constitutional Court, was quoted by the Anatolia news agency as
saying.


If the court rules that Friday's vote was in order, the
presidential elections will move ahead and Gul is all but certain
to be elected in the third round of voting on May 9 when an
absolute majority of 276 votes will suffice.


There is uncertainty as to what the next step will be if the
court rules in favour of the CHP's demand.


Some constitutional law experts say parliament will have to hold
the first round of voting again to try to get the necessary
quorum.


If not, general elections set for November 4 will be brought
forward as the constitution calls for new parliamentary elections
if lawmakers are unable to elect a president.


The government has condemned the CHP's legal challenge as
political manoeuvring and expressed concern that the army's
warning will effect its decision.


The AKP sprung from a banned Islamist party but says it has
disavowed those roots and is now committed to secular principles.


Many in Turkey suspect the AKP of harbouring a secret Islamic
agenda, citing its unsuccessful attempts to criminalise adultery,
restrict alcohol sales and lift a ban on Islamic headscarves in
government offices.

