

A heavy police presence restored calm on Sunday to the Estonian
capital after the authorities angered Russia and sparked riots by
removing a Soviet war monument from the city centre.


There was no sign of the violence of Thursday and Friday when
hundreds of mainly Russian-speaking youths rampaged through the
streets of Tallinn in riots that left one Russian citizen dead
and more than 150 people injured.


The 2.5-metre (eight-foot) high Bronze Soldier, which Estonians
see as a reminder of 50 years of Soviet occupation, was uprooted
early Friday and taken to a secret location.


The Estonian government said Sunday it planned to resite the
statue, which has stood in the Tallinn city centre for 60 years,
at a war cemetery in Tallinn in time for a key World War II
anniversary next month.


"I expect the Bronze Soldier to stand at the military cemetery by
May 8, the day of victory of the anti-Hitler coalition in World
War II," Estonian Defence Minister Jaak Aaviksoo told a press
conference.


Estonians mark the anniversary of victory over the Nazis in World
War II on May 8, while the country's ethnic Russian community,
which makes up a quarter of the population of 1.34 million,
celebrates the end of the war the following day.


The removal of the statue, which Russians see as a memorial to
the millions of Red Army soldiers who died defeating Nazism, has
strained already difficult relations between Russia and its
Baltic neighbour.


Anti-Estonian protests have been held in Russia, Russian
newspapers have run angry editorials against the Baltic state,
and politicians in Moscow have threatened sanctions and a break
in diplomatic relations.


A delegation from Russia's lower house of parliament, the Duma,
led by the head of the Committee on War Veterans' Affairs,
Nikolai Kovalyov, was expected to arrive in Tallinn on Monday for
talks.


Estonia's parliamentary speaker Ene Ergma said the Estonian side
would use the visit to dispel any misunderstandings the Russians
might have about the removal of the monument.


Russia has accused police of being heavy-handed in dealing with
the riots, but the Estonian side has denied the inference that
any police action might have caused the death of the Russian
national.


"The Estonian police were not involved in the incident which led
to the death of the young Russian," police spokesman Taavi
Kullerkupp said.


"An incident between two individuals led to the death," he added.


Kullerkupp also denied reports in the Russian media that ethnic
Russians had resigned en masse from the Estonian police force.


"To my knowledge, we have had no letters of resignation. I
couldn't even say how many ethnic Russians are in the police
force -- we're all Estonian police officers," he said.


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet meanwhile characterised as
"highly regrettable" Moscow's accusations of excessive force by
Estonian police against the rioters and of "blasphemy" regarding
the monument's removal.


Paet insisted that although the majority of the rioters had been
Russian- speaking youths, the riots were rooted in vandalism
rather than political outrage.


"Police detained a considerable number of Estonians as well who
had joined the Russians in grabbing for free from looted shops
Hugo Boss jeans, designer underwear and first of all, alcohol,"
he said.


"I don't see a logical connection between marking the memory of
those who fell in World War II and vandalising shops," he added.


Nearly 1,000 people have been detained following the unrest and
more than 50 criminal investigations have been opened with
suspects facing up to five years in jail if convicted for public
order offences.

