

A delegation of Russian lawmakers was due in the Estonian capital
Tallinn Monday for talks aimed at resolving a crisis over the
removal of a Soviet war memorial there, which has sparked deadly
riots.


"The delegation is on its way and a first meeting will be held at
parliament with deputy speaker Kristiina Ojuland at 2:15 pm
(11h15 GMT)," foreign ministry spokesman Andry Ruumet told AFP.


The Russians will inform the Estonians about a resolution passed
in the Duma (the lower house of parliament) on Friday, condemning
the removal of the Bronze Soldier statue from central Tallinn,
and will assess the situation on the ground, the speaker of
parliament Boris Gryzlov has said.


"We are especially worried about the fate of detained Russian
citizens and our compatriots," he said Saturday, announcing the
visit.


One Russian man was killed here and more than 150 people injured,
including 29 police officers, in two nights of rioting sparked by
moves to uproot the 2.5-metre (eight-foot) high statue from the
site near the Estonian parliament where it had stood since 1947.


The row over the statue, which is seen by Estonians as a reminder
of 50 years of Soviet occupation, has also heightened tensions
that have marred relations between Tallinn and Moscow ever since
Estonia regained independence in 1991, when the USSR crumbled.


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet said Monday the Baltic EU
member state would press for Brussels to intervene after a four-
day siege had seen staff locked in at the Estonian embassy in the
Russian capital.


"Embassy staff in Moscow have been locked in for the past four
days," Paet said on Estonian Radio.


"We were able to whisk out a pregnant employee with an under-age
child overnight but other workers can't go in or out."


"Because Russia is violating its international obligations to
protect a diplomatic representation, we will ask the EU to make a
demarche to the Russian Federation over this," he added.


Nearly 1,000 people have been detained in Estonia following the
deadly riots on Thursday and Friday night, and criminal cases
have been opened against 51 people, police spokesman Taavi
Kullerkupp told AFP.


The Bronze Soldier statue was moved to a secret location Friday
after the first night of rioting.


The monument will be re-erected in a military cemetery Monday
afternoon, the Estonian defence ministry said.


"There is construction work going on at the cemetery to lay a
foundation for the statue," spokesman Madis Mikko told AFP.


"The statue has been cleaned up and will be placed at the
cemetery today (Monday)."


It will be inaugurated in its new site on May 8, the day
Estonians and the rest of the EU celebrate the end of World War
II, the defence ministry has said.

