

US-led coalition forces Monday said troops killed 136 Taliban
fighters in several days of clashes in a remote Afghan valley,
but angry locals insisted civilians were among the dead.


Around 300 police officers were sent to the Zerkoh Valley in
Herat province to control a demonstration by local people over
the deaths, police said, with protesters heard shouting "Death to
America."


Earlier, the coalition said that US Special Forces, accompanied
by police and other coalition members, attacked Taliban fighting
positions in the valley on Sunday.


The troops used mortars, small arms and rocket-propelled
grenades, it said in a statement, adding that when reinforcements
arrived, coalition aircraft dropped "multiple munitions on
several identified enemy locations."


An AC-130 gunship killed 26 fighters on both sides of the valley,
it said.


"A total of seven enemy positions were destroyed, and 87 Taliban
fighters were killed during the 14-hour engagement."


Two days earlier more than 70 fighters had attacked a US Special
Forces and Afghan police unit on a night-time patrol in the area.


The security forces retaliated with ground and air fire, killing
49 Taliban, it said. A US soldier was also killed whose death was
announced Friday.


"Every precaution was taken to prevent injury to innocent Afghan
civilians during the two battles, and there were no civilian
injuries reported," the statement said.


But locals in the valley, which is about 150 kilometres (90
miles) south of the western city of Herat, said civilians were
among the dead.


"There is a demonstration in the Zerkoh area of Shindand
district. There has been some violence and gunshots are heard,"
Herat police chief Mohammad Shafiq Fazli said.


"We have sent some 300 policemen to the area to control the
situation. So far we have no reports of any casualties."


One demonstrator told AFP over the telephone that children had
also been killed.


"The people they have killed are not Taliban, they are civilians.
They have killed civilians including children," he said. "We
don't want the Americans in our area."


Chants of "Death to America" could be heard in the background.


There have been several cases of civilians being killed in
military action targeted at insurgents trying to bring down
Afghanistan's Western-backed government.


Officials say however that sometimes such claims are false and
intended to feed resentment against the thousands of foreign
troops in the country.


The coalition says it tries to minimise "collateral damage" but
casualties arise when militants attack from compounds housing
civilians.


Most of the violence linked to an insurgency launched after the
Taliban was toppled from government five years ago has been in
southern and southeastern Afghanistan, but this year has seen a
spike in attacks in the west.


Police raided a religious school in Farah province this month
which they alleged was involved in organising Taliban suicide
attacks.


In other violence linked to the insurgency, Taliban attacked a
police checkpost in the southeastern province of Khost early
Monday, police said.


Four Taliban were killed in the fighting, police official Wazir
Padshah said. Two policemen were wounded.


And a suicide bomber blew himself up Friday near the vehicle of a
US-owned private security firm in the southern city of Kandahar,
killing one Afghan guard and injuring three others, police said.


The insurgency was at its deadliest last year with more than
4,000 people killed -- most of them rebels.


About 1,000 people have lost their lives to the violence this
year, according to an AFP tally, with both the security forces
and militants stepping up their campaigns in recent weeks after a
winter lull.

