

Human rights groups backed Monday an Indonesian police probe into
the 2004 murder of a rights activist, hopeful it will reveal that
the nation's intelligence agency was behind the killing.


Local groups said they were "cautiously optimistic" after police
made several arrests over the murder and revealed late last week
they were interviewing fresh witnesses.


The backing is a turnaround for rights groups who have been
scathing of police efforts since leading rights campaigner Munir
Said Thalib died on a Garuda flight to Amsterdam after his drink
was laced with arsenic.


Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono came under
pressure to reopen the investigation after the only person
charged over the murder, Garuda pilot Pollycarpus Priyanto, had
his conviction quashed by the Supreme Court late last year.


The ruling prompted an outcry from the groups and Munir's widow,
already concerned about a cover-up because of links to
intelligence agency BIN. A court heard during his trial that
Priyanto had had telephone contact with BIN agents before and
after the murder.


But Rafendi Djamin, coordinator of Indonesian Human Rights Watch
Group, said the probe, reopened in January, was headed by one of
Indonesia's chief detectives and was finally getting results.


"In the first investigation, BIN's involvement was not deeply
looked at. But the current probe, with the arrest of the Garuda
executives -- I see that it could lead to the masterminds, to
those who gave the orders," Djamin said.


"They are the key witnesses to disclose BIN's involvement," he
told AFP.


Earlier this month, police arrested the former head of Garuda and
an ex-company secretary for questioning over alleged
falsification of documents allowing an off-duty Priyanto to
travel at the last minute on Munir's flight.


"Everything is under good control. Police and the attorney-
general are working together closely for a judicial review of the
case," said Hendardi, from the Human Rights and Legal Aid
Foundation.


Munir, who was 38 when he died, had made numerous powerful
enemies through his work during and after the rule of dictator
Suharto, which ended in 1998, exposing rights abuses including in
Papua and East Timor.

