

Japan's comeback campaign in judo will be led by a pair of men
who are looking for redemption on the big stage, despite a
collection of two Olympic and five world gold medals between
them.


Keiji Suzuki, who won the over-100kg heavyweight gold medal at
the 2004 Athens Olympics, beat Satoshi Ishii with a 3-0 decision
to win back Japan's most prestigious open-weight national
championship here on Sunday.


Suzuki was immediately selected to compete in his favourite
under-100kg light- heavyweight division at the world
championships in Rio de Janeiro in September, a springboard for
next year's Beijing Olympics.


"I want to compete in Beijing, win the gold and show the strength
of Japanese judo," said the 26-year-old, who was dumped by
Israel's Ariel Zeevi in the fourth round at a German
international tournament in February.


"It cannot be accepted in judo that the strongest in Japan is not
the strongest in the world."


His longtime rival Kosei Inoue, the 2000 Sydney Olympic light-
heavyweight champion on his comeback from a shocking defeat in
Athens, bowed to Ishii on a 2-1 decision in the semi-finals of
the national event.


But the All-Japan Judo Federation picked Inoue, 28, who has
stepped up to the heaviest division, to compete in either the
over-100kg or open category because he triumphed at the star-
studded Paris tournament last February.


Japan are hoping to reverse a downturn after winning a record
eight golds for men and women in Athens. They picked up just
three at the 2005 worlds and lost the men's and women's titles at
the world team championships last year.


Paris was Inoue's first overseas competition since he was knocked
out by Dutchman Elco van der Geest in the quarter-finals in
Athens when he was a three- time light-heavyweight world
champion.


In the French capital, Inoue breezed past three-time world
champion Alexandre Mikhailine of Russia on penalties then whipped
Yury Rybak of Belarus in the final with his trademark "uchimata,"
an inner-thigh reaping throw.


"I have yet to perfect my uchimata to pull up and throw
heavyweight opponents," Inoue said after his killer technique
remained silent at the national event.


"I have a lot of problems to overcome, technically and mentally.
I cannot go on like this. I will start all over again after a
rest," added Inoue, 108kg, whose class include behemouths
weighing over 140kg.


Japan's former Olympic and world champion Yasuhiro Yamashita,
arguably the best judoka of all time, said: "What Inoue needs is
ingenuity. His physical strength is on the wane and he should not
rely too much on his uchimata."


Inoue was sidelined for a year after tearing a tendon in the
right shoulder in the Kano Cup here in early 2005 in which he
beat Rybak in the open-weight final despite the injury.


Suzuki had been in a slump since Ishii denied him a third
straight national title last year to become the youngest
unlimited-weight champion at 19.


"I lost and then suffered injury, leaving my motivation almost at
zero for the rest of the year," said Suzuki, a master of leg
throws, who hurt his left shoulder in an autumn camp training.


"Some people started talking about my retirement," he remembered.
"But I hated to lose and I didn't want to finish as a loser.


"My friends hung around a lot with me and I learned surfing and
other pastimes. But many of them started telling me this year
that you should do judo after all."


After finishing third at the German event, he won all three
matches by perfect "ippon" at national competitions three weeks
ago, part of the selection process for the 2007 worlds.


"It's not just a goal but also a mission to become world champion
again." he said. "I cannot end my career without becoming world
champion no matter how."

