

As the world's largest spewer of carbon-dioxide emissions, the
United States has shrugged off blame for global warming and
continues to question recommended methods for slowing down the
trend.


The administration of US President George W. Bush has long
rejected the role of human activity on the phenomenon, even as
experts estimate that one quarter of the heat-trapping pollutants
in the atmosphere come from US sources.


However, a steady stream of pressure from international experts,
public opinion, the new Democratic majority in Congress and even
the Supreme Court has chipped away at that stance.


In early April, the United States acknowledged the alarming
diagnosis of global warming and its potential disastrous
consequences after the release of a report by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the United
Nations's top authority on global warming which meets this week
in Bangkok to discuss measures to take in response.


Bush, criticized around the world for his refusal in 2001 to
ratify the Kyoto Protocol aimed at reducing greenhouse-gas
emissions, saying it would hurt the US economy, now says he takes
global warming "very seriously."


But he has not accepted any measures other than incentives,
particularly ones that favor biofuels, to fight it.


In Congress, former US vice president-turned-environment crusader
Al Gore has received a warm welcome. Hearings on the subject have
increased and a draft law aimed at combating the phenomenon is up
for debate this summer.


However, lawmakers remain uncertain how to tackle the matter.


Even though the United States is responsible for 25 percent of
the world's greenhouse gases, only some states like California
have taken initiatives to reduce pollution.


Bush refuses to consider any measure that could harm the growth
of the US economy or threaten jobs. He reasons that economic
prosperity is the only sure way to be able to address the
consequences of global warming and finance the development of
cleaner technologies, which tend to be more costly.


His administration also believes that any domestic initiatives
will be useless as long as China, the world's second-biggest
polluter, and India are not also forced to limit emissions.


But the US public is increasingly eager for some movement on
global warming, even if it means denting economic growth or
forcing automakers to downsize their vehicles in a land where
sports-utility vehicles and big cars reign, a recent poll
suggested.


Fifty-two percent of respondents in a New York Times/CBS News
poll published Friday said the environment should come first,
compared with 36 percent who said the economy should.


Ninety-two percent said they would agree with regulations that
would require automakers to make more fuel-efficient cars, but
few wanted cuts to affect them directly -- just 20 percent were
in favor of a gasoline tax aimed at limiting consumption.


A report released in mid-April by a panel of retired US admirals
and generals framed the issue in a different way, arguing that
global climate change presented a serious national security
threat.


The study described climate change as a potential "threat
multiplier" in already fragile regions of the world, exacerbating
impoverished and corrupt conditions that lead to failed states,
"the breeding grounds for extremism and terrorism," and further
straining US military resources.

