

An opposition politician highlighting wage disparity in Singapore
by marching across the island said Monday his feet were blistered
but vowed he would complete the walk by May Day.


Chee Soon Juan and his sister Chee Siok Chin began their
150-kilometre (93-mile) cross-island protest walk early Sunday
and expect to finish on May Day in a park area designated
Singapore's Speakers' Corner.


"Of course physically, it is rather gruelling," said Chee,
secretary general of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP).


"My feet are all covered with blisters. (But) we're very upbeat
and buoyant, keeping our pace and on schedule," the 44-year-old
told AFP by telephone as he trudged through a northeastern
Singapore neighbourhood.


Chee and his sister wore T-shirts declaring "Walking For Our
Workers" and handed out information about what they claimed was a
widening wealth gap in the affluent city-state.


"The income disparity in Singapore is one the highest in the
world," said Chee, one of the few in Singapore who have spoken
out against the ruling People's Action Party.


Pay increases on top of the million-dollar annual salaries of
cabinet ministers -- which take effect this month -- have
triggered a rare public outcry from normally reserved
Singaporeans.


The pay rise boosted Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's annual
salary from 1.62 million to 2.04 million US dollars, five times
more than the figure US President George W. Bush earns and more
than eight times the salary of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe.


Lee pledged his pay increase to "suitable good causes" while his
office insisted the move had nothing to do with public reaction
after international media highlighted the pay rises.


The government said the increases were necessary to retain top-
calibre people to manage the economy, one of the wealthiest in
Asia.


Chee said he and his sister had had a four-hour sleep Sunday and
resumed their walk at 7:30 am (1530 GMT) Monday.


Before midday, they said they had covered about half of the
distance and as yet had encountered no problems with police.


Public protests of five or more people in Singapore require a
police permit.


Chee was declared bankrupt early last year after being unable to
pay libel damages won by Singapore's founding father, Lee Kuan
Yew, and former prime minister Goh Chok Tong.

