

John Arne Riise has warned his Liverpool team-mates that patience
will be the key to their chances of victory on what is certain to
be a highly-charged night at Anfield on Tuesday.


Chelsea go into the clash seeking to defend a 1-0 Champions
League, first leg semi-final lead, six days after the two teams
met for the first time in their respective histories.


But Liverpool's Norwegian defender is confident that his side can
overturn the deficit and repeat their triumph over the London
club at the same stage of the competition two years ago, despite
being outplayed in the first leg of their semi-final clash.


Chelsea might easily have added to Joe Cole's solitary strike
last Wednesday, but they can scarcely expect that fact to be
taken into consideration when they run on the Anfield turf on
Tuesay.


An initial onslaught appears inevitable. "We know we're going to
have to score and it would help if we can get an early goal,"
said Riise, one of the few surivivors from the Liverpool squad
that beat AC Milan in the final on penalties two years ago.


"We didn't create many chances on Tuesday (at Chelsea), but we
performed better in the second half and at home we know we can
get forward and score goals.


"We need a good start. If we get that, with the crowd behind us,
it means it could be game on. It's also important to be patient
and be careful to give nothing away.


"Two years ago it was unbelievable and it can be the same again."


Liverpool know they must be wary of the threat posed by Didier
Drogba, the giant Ivory Coast striker who set up Cole for his
first-leg winner.


"He's as strong as a bull, he works hard and he scores goals,"
admitted Riise, "It's very difficult to play against him."


Whether by luck or accident, Chelsea remain in the hunt for four
pieces of silverware this season.


But their task at Anfield has been complicated by the loss of
outstanding defender Ricardo Carvalho, who is destined to spend
the summer recovering from a knee injury, and Michael Ballack,
who also looks to be out for the season following knee surgery.


Chelsea can hardly complain about the cover for defensive
midfielder Claude Makelele, given that Jose Mourinho can call up
the power-packed likes of Michael Essien. But there is sill some
life in him yet.


Although Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic are close to a comeback,
United boss Sir Alex Ferguson is unlikely to risk them ahead of
next week's trip to AC Milan.


Chelsea have injury worries of their own with the untested Khalid
Boulahrouz set to be called upon to help fill the defensive gap
left by Carvalho's absence.


The Dutch defender has found it difficult to get back into the
side of late, but insisted: I've worked so hard to come back from
a knee injury and was feeling very strong. I had no doubts at all
about the knee, which was feeling great.


"And then two minutes before the end of the first half I
dislocated my shoulder. It must be very bad luck.


"But there is nothing you can do about it when these things
happen. You can get mad, you can get sad. But for me I just try
to stay as relaxed as possible and focus on my recovery.


"Now I am over the shoulder and the team are doing well, so I
will have to fight for my place.


"Everybody is incredibly motivated and the spirit and atmosphere
between everyone is fantastic."

