

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, whose future is hanging in
the balance over his handling of last year's Lebanon war, is a
career politician and deal-maker facing his toughest challenge.


Weakened by a string of corruption scandals implicating him and
senior members of his government, Olmert on Monday braced for the
interim report of the Winograd Commission investigating the
34-day war against Hezbollah.


The findings are due to deliver withering criticism of the way
Olmert handled the conflict, but stop short of calling on him to
resign.


With his ratings at nearly zero, and opposition from both left
and right calling for him to quit, the master politician now
faces the biggest fight of his political life to remain in power.


"Olmert has failed as a leader. He has to go," wrote a columnist
in the liberal Haaretz daily recently.


The 61 year old officially assumed the prime minister's chair
last May, becoming Israel's 12th premier after taking the relay
from his predecessor and mentor Ariel Sharon, who fell into a
coma in January 2006.


Olmert led his Kadima party to a historic victory in the March
2006 elections on a platform of dismantling dozens of settlements
and withdrawing troops from most of the occupied West Bank, after
a similar withdrawal from Gaza the previous year.


But today that plan has been shelved and the political future of
a man Time Magazine last year called one of the world's 100 most
influential leaders is at best dim after what is regarded in
Israel as a year of failures.


Just two percent of Israelis say they trust their premier, more
than two-thirds want him to resign and most also favour early
elections, according to the most recent polls.


"I am a very unpopular prime minister," Olmert conceded recently.


A string of graft scandals implicating him further chipped away
at his popularity -- the attorney general has ordered one
criminal probe into whether he tried to steer while acting
finance minister the sale of the nation's second- largest bank
toward an associate. He has denied the charges.


Olmert has said he will not step down unless specifically called
to do so by Monday's report and observers say that following the
publication he will wage a public relations battle to remain in
power.


He is well-equipped for the task.


"Olmert is the 12th Israeli to serve as prime minister and
probably the best politician of them all.... Olmert is a lawyer,
a dealmaker, an inside man," Time Magazine said last year.


Olmert is "the only leader with a chance to wheel and deal his
way out of the woods," the right-wing Jerusalem Post daily
echoed.


The premier was born in 1945 in the central village of Shoni, a
base for militants of the ultranationalist Irgun in their
campaign of bombings and killings directed against both the Arab
majority and the then British rulers.


In 1973 he became the youngest member of parliament, running for
the right-wing Likud. He later opposed both the 1978 Camp David
accords with Egypt and the 1993 Oslo agreement with the
Palestinians.


But, eschewing his right-wing political friends, in the early
1970s he married left-leaning artist Aliza, who brought up their
four children with equally liberal views.


After entering the cabinet in 1988, Olmert was elected mayor of
Jerusalem in 1993, a post he held for a decade but in which he
never really shone.


In 2003, he returned to government as deputy premier under Sharon
who handpicked him as his successor.


Steeped from birth in the ideology of a Greater Israel across all
historic Palestine, Olmert underwent a late-career metamorphosis,
coming to believe that Israel had to withdraw from Palestinian
territory if it were to remain a democratic Jewish state.

