

The New England Patriots acquired veteran wide receiver Randy
Moss from the Oakland Raiders on Sunday as trades enlivened the
normally subdued second day of the National Football League
draft.


Shortly after Oakland shipped the discontented Moss to New
England in exchange for a fourth-round draft selection - 110th
overall - the Seattle Seahawks sent receiver Darrell Jackson to
the San Francisco 49ers for a fourth-round pick.


The Raiders started the second day of the draft by selecting
Louisville running back Michael Bush with the 100th overall pick.
Bush had suffered a broken leg early in his final university
season.


Bush had a second surgery last month to replace the rod in his
leg, making NFL executives and coaches skittish enough to avoid
him in the first three rounds. He rushed for 1,143 yards and 24
touchdowns in 2005.


Heisman Trophy winner Troy Smith of Ohio State University was
selected with the last pick in the fifth round by the Baltimore
Ravens.


Smith threw for 2,507 yards, 30 touchdowns and just five
interceptions as the Buckeyes won their first 12 games. But he
lacks the ideal size and throwing motion for the position in the
NFL.


Oakland had opened the draft on Saturday by making Louisiana
State quarterback JaMarcus Russell the No. 1 selection overall.


Russell won't get a chance to throw to Moss.


Trading a draft pick for a disenchanted Pro Bowl player on a
losing team has worked out before for Patriots coach Bill
Belichick. New England dealt a 2004 second-round pick to
Cincinnati for running back Corey Dillon, who helped the Patriots
win a third Super Bowl title.


The Pats hope a similar scenario unfolds with Moss, who wanted
out of Oakland. He has two years and 20 million dollars left on
his contract and refused to take a pay cut.


However, Moss is probably willing to rework his deal with the
Patriots.


The 30-year-old Moss has 676 receptions for 10,700 yards and 101
touchdowns in nine seasons but did not make much of an impact
with Oakland, which had major quarterback problems that led to
their selection of Russell.


Last season, Moss was bothered by hamstring problems and had
career lows of 42 catches for 553 yards and three touchdowns.
Along with the poor numbers, Moss has faced questions about his
effort and commitment to the game.


The Seahawks won the NFC West last season but lost twice to the
49ers. Yet Seattle president Tim Ruskell traded Jackson to San
Francisco for the low price of a fourth-round pick.


Jackson, 28, spent his entire seven-year career with the Seahawks
and caught 63 passes for 956 yards and 10 TDs last season. He has
a fan in San Francisco in Scot McCloughan, the 49ers' vice
president of player personnel who was Seattle's director of
scouting until 2005.


"Darrell is a productive receiver with experience in our
division, which I think is a plus," 49ers coach Mike Nolan said.
"Scot McCloughan is familiar with Darrell from his time in
Seattle, and we are excited to have him with the 49ers."

