

Japan's top executives have made business overtures to Gulf
states, saying the Asian giant's technology can help the oil-rich
region break its heavy dependence on energy.


A 180-strong business delegation is accompanying Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe on his first tour of five Arab nations -- Egypt,
Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) --
since he took office in September.


Abe's tour, which began on Saturday, came as Japan, the world's
second largest economy with virtually no oil or gas reserves of
its own, is seeking to boost its visibility in a region vital for
its energy security.


The business mission, organised by Japan Business Federation, is
one of the biggest in history in the company of a Japanese leader
travelling overseas.


Senior members of the nation's most powerful business lobby,
known as Keidanren, attended part of talks between Abe and Gulf
state leaders while organising economic seminars inviting
government officials and businessmen from the region.


Keidanren Chairman Fujio Mitarai, who heads the delegation, said
industry diversification is a key to the Gulf region's
sustainable growth without heavily relying on natural resources.


"Japan is ready to cooperate with the Gulf countries in
diversifying their industries," he told AFP.


"Japan can provide technological cooperation and fostering human
resources," said Mitarai, who is also chairman of Canon Corp.,
adding that his mission had already delivered the message to his
business counterparts here.


"I think Japanese support in the fields of the environment and
energy saving will be helpful for them. Anyway, natural resource
is not unlimited in the end."


The oil-rich Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), which groups
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, is
Japan's third largest trade partner following the United States
and China.


Total trade between Japan and the GCC nations jumped 25 percent
from the previous year to 111.4 billion dollars (81.8 billion
euros) in 2006 on the back of a surge in oil prices in recent
years.


Japan relies on the Gulf states which Abe will visit for more
than 70 percent of its oil supply, while exports of Japanese cars
and machinery to the GCC account for 80 percent of its total
shipments to them.


"For Japan, the Middle East is a very important partner,"
Yoshihiko Miyauchi, vice chairman of Keidanren's Board of
Councillors, told AFP.


"Islamic nations are now urged to consider how they can make good
use of oil," said Miyauchi, who is also chairman and CEO of Orix
Corp.


"Japan has ideas and know-how. It will be important for the two
sides to jointly come up with good projects and push for them.
That's the way we can work together."


Experts said broader ties between the two sides will also bring a
business chance to Japanese companies.


"In the past, countries in the region had only been recognised as
just oil exporters," said Sadashi Fukuda, director-general of the
Institute of Developing Economies in Japan.


"However, they are now developed well enough to accept sizable
investment and state-of-art technology, which matches Japanese
interest.".


The Japanese and Gulf state governments have begun political
backing for their broader business ties.


During the trip, Abe unveiled a proposal of forging a "multi-
layered partnership" beyond oil with the region.


"I want to open a new era of relations between Japan and the
Middle East," he said. "I would like to activate our wide-ranged,
strategic dialogue."


Saudi's King Abdullah and UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed
al-Nahayan agreed on the call.


"It is desirable to see a business delegation visit our country
together with the prime minister," Khalifa told Abe, according to
the Japanese official.


"I hope this will be a cue to further strengthen relations
between the UAE and Japan. It is important (for the UAE) to have
the presence of Japanese companies, no matter whether they are
engaged in energy or not."


Initial moves of Japanese support particularly in the environment
have already begun in Kuwait, where Tokyo is helping the Arab
state clean up Kuwait Bay.

