

Steve Nash and Amare Stoudemire ganged up on the Los Angeles
Lakers Sunday as the Phoenix Suns took charge in their National
Basketball Association playoff series with a 113-100 victory.


Nash handed out 23 assists - one shy of the all-time playoff
record - and Stoudemire dominated inside with 27 points and 21
rebounds as the Suns took a three-games-to-one lead in their
best-of-seven Western Conference first-round series.


The second-seeded Suns kept Kobe Bryant somewhat contained with
31 points, pushing the Lakers to the brink of a second-straight
first-round exit.


The Lakers get their first chance Wednesday at Phoenix.


Nash, the two NBA Most Valuable Player, repeatedly weaved his way
through the defense, maintaining his dribble while changing
speeds and finding open teammates with pinpoint passes. He scored
17 points but was even more effective as a distributor, falling
one assist shy of the all-time playoff record shared by John
Stockton and Magic Johnson, who was in attendance.


Often on the receiving end was Stoudemire, who looked like the
fearsome force he was in the 2005 playoffs. Fully recovered from
microfracture surgery that cost him nearly all of last season,
Stoudemire put together the first 20-20 game of the postseason.


Together, the two All-Stars overwhelmed the Lakers, who aren't
much more than a one-man team. Bryant scored 45 points in game
three to give them hope, but needed more help and did not get
enough.


Meanwhile, Nash and Stoudemire were complemented by Shawn Marion
(22 points, 11 rebounds), Leandro Barbosa (16 points) and James
Jones (11 points).


The scene for game four was a reversal from one year ago, when
the Suns trailed in the series and needed a victory to avoid
falling into a 3-1 hole.  But Phoenix was forced to overtime and
ended up losing on a buzzer-beater by Bryant.


However, the Suns recovered with three straight wins, becoming
the eighth team in NBA history to turn the trick - and deal
Lakers coach Phil Jackson his initial first-round series loss.


Western Conference top seeds Dallas, who fell to Miami in the NBA
finals last season, were trying to get their first-round series
against the Golden State Warriors back on track in Oakland later
Sunday.


The Mavericks, who won 67 games during the regular season,
trailed 2-1 heading into the contest.

