

Malians waited anxiously Monday for the result of weekend
elections expected to return incumbent President Amadou Toumani
Toure for another five-year term.


The west African country's fourth successive democratic
presidential vote since the ousting 16 years ago of a military
dictatorship passed peacefully Sunday.


Eight candidates vied for the top job in one of Africa's largest
but most impoverished countries, which has made significant
democratic strides in the past 15 years.


"We have had an inkling of fraud, of which we await
confirmation," said Djiguiba Keita, spokesman for the main
opposition coalition, the Front for Democracy and the Republic.


Key opposition figure Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, a former prime
minister and head of the national assembly, is a member of the
coalition.


A former cabinet minister and now opposition politician, Tiebile
Drame of the Party for National Revival, claimed "widespread
fraud" in the polls but also did not elaborate.


No incident was reported either in the run-up to or during the
elections.


Some 1,000 observers were posted across the 1.2 million square
kilometre (478,800 square mile) country in the heart of west
Africa.


The first results were expected to start trickling in Monday but
full results should be ready around Wednesday or Thursday, given
the huge size of the country, which lies on the edge of the
Sahara desert.


Despite being the third largest gold-producer in Africa after
South Africa and Ghana, Mali is the world's third poorest
country, according to the United Nations.


Toure is a former general who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in
1991 and installed a multi-party system before stepping aside in
1992.


Ten years later he returned to the political scene, stood for
presidential elections and won easily.


The 58-year-old does not have a political party but enjoys the
backing of two large coalitions and a myriad of small parties,
including the Tuareg ex-rebels who once waged a separatist war in
the northeast.


"My wish is that the elections go well, that Malians vote
peacefully and freely," he said Sunday as he cast his ballot.


Turnout was high in the first few hours of voting but slowed
mainly due to searing heat, according to polling officers.


"The general impression is that voter abstention was slightly
less this year than in the preceding two rounds," said former
Haitian prime minister Gerard Latortue, who is heading an
observer mission from French-speaking countries.


"All has gone well according to what our teams have observed, no
incident has been reported."


National electoral commission chief Fodie Toure expected voter
turnout to be better than in 2002.


Observers earlier feared the vote could be marked by voter apathy
after fewer than two-thirds of the roughly 6.8 million eligible
voters bothered to collect their electoral cards.


In the last elections in 2002 and 1997, voter turnout in the
former French colony fell under 25 percent.

