

Segolene Royal has come to the threshold of being France's first
woman president thanks to a brilliantly personalised campaign
which transformed her for the left-voting public into a symbol of
hope and renewal.


The 53-year-old former environment minister emerged from nowhere
a year ago to challenge the Socialist Party (PS) barons, and won
the presidential nomination in November after it became clear
that she alone had the charisma to beat the popular right-winger
Nicolas Sarkozy.


Fired by a fierce sense of self-belief, she then shrugged off a
series of much- reported gaffes -- when it appeared her candidacy
might turn into a disastrous flop -- and her 25.87 percent first
round vote was the best by a left-winger in 20 years.


Her popular touch is unimpeachable. For many she is the first
Socialist leader to break with an ideological, male-dominated
establishment and speak directly to ordinary people about their
concerns. Her personal beauty adds another level to the public's
response.


But for critics Royal is a manipulator who confuses politics with
public relations, artfully numbing the voters with bromides about
a new society. Others say she is authoritarian, and there are
question marks over her manifesto -- dismissed by the right as a
list of unfinanced welfare promises.


One of eight children born in colonial Senegal to a military
family, Royal studied at the elite National Administration School
(ENA) in Paris where she met Francois Hollande, the PS leader who
is her partner and father of their four children.


After working under socialist president Francois Mitterrand, she
won a seat in the National Assembly in 1988, and had junior
cabinet posts in the 90s. In 2004 she was elected head of the
Poitou-Charentes regional council -- a major coup because her
opponent was the then prime minister.


Royal suddenly became a national figure at the end of 2005 when
she declared she would run for the presidency, earning at first a
scornful reaction from party "elephants" but later respect as she
appeared set to revitalise a divided and demoralised left.


Via a nationwide network of "participative debates" and her
"Desires for the Future" website, Royal mounted a "listening
phase" to her campaign, promising only to draw up a programme
once she had heard the public's grievances.


Later she promised to create 500,000 youth jobs with state money,
build 120,000 social housing units and "consolidate" the reduced
35-hour workweek. She also broke with old left-wing taboos,
advocating boot-camps for young offenders and saying every
household should own a national flag.


With polls showing that her only chance of beating Sarkozy is to
win the votes of defeated "third man" Francois Bayrou, she has in
the last week gone further than any Socialist in exploring an
alliance with the centre -- a move with uncertain implications
for her party's future.


Criticised for vagueness by her enemies, Royal is sometimes
described as a post- modern politician -- one who relies on an
instinctive bond with the public and shuns any formal programme
of action.


The knack has assured a remarkable political success story, but
raises question marks for many voters -- who will want to know if
they are voting a reforming social democrat or a tax-and-spend
leftist into the Elysee.

