

The first round of East Timor's presidential election failed to
meet most of the benchmarks set out by a UN monitoring team, a
report released Monday said.


The report said improvements were needed in the election process
before the troubled nation returned to the polls next week for a
runoff vote for the top job.


The runoff will be contested by Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta
and ruling Fretilin party candidate Francisco Guterres.


Both candidates failed to win 50 percent of the vote in the April
9 poll -- the nation's first since it gained independence in 2002
-- prompting the runoff.


The report was released by an independent team formed at the
request of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to assess the April 9
election.


The report found the election fully satisfied just 13 of 52
international benchmarks that the team had established.


"Every effort needs to be made to ensure that at the second round
of presidential polling, and the forthcoming parliamentary
election (in June), all of the benchmarks are satisfied," the
report concluded.


The UN mission in East Timor said despite the report's findings,
the election had been free and fair.


"UNMIT recognises that, while the first round of elections was
not perfect, the consensus of the assessment was that it was free
and fair, reflecting the will of the voters," it said in a
statement.


"The electoral benchmarks reflect international standards and
full compliance with these standards is indeed a challenge not
only to Timor-Leste (East Timor) but also to fledgling and
established democracies," UNMIT said.


Failed benchmarks included not having clear regulations governing
voter registration and vote counting.


Actual vote counting had been secure and the process transparent,
the report noted. It also said it was not mandated to make a
judgement on whether the election had been free and fair.


"The benchmarks do not represent an aspirational statement of
achievable best practice: they simply encapsulate what is to be
found in a typical well-run election," it said.


East Timor voted for independence in a UN-sponsored referendum in
1999, triggering an orgy of killing by pro-Jakarta militia before
independence from Indonesia was declared in 2002.

