

Presidents Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Pervez Musharraf of
Pakistan met here Monday to discuss tensions over the fight
against the Taliban militia, which Islamabad is accused of
tacitly supporting.


The meeting was also attended by President Ahmet Necdet Sezer and
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, which has
traditonally close ties with both countries and has troops with
the international force in Afghanistan.


Karzai and Musharraf, two key US allies in the war against
terrorism, last met for talks in Washington in September, when US
President George W. Bush tried to reconcile them without apparent
success.


Tensions simmered between the two leaders even as they prepared
for the talks, with Musharraf angrily dismissing Afghan claims
that Pakistan's secret intelligence agency is helping the
Taliban.


"Those who do nothing against terrorism, like Karzai, are also
the ones who criticise those who are fighting, like us,"
Musharraf told the Spanish daily El Pais Thursday.


"Those who say that the ISI (Pakistani military intelligence)
helps the Taliban because we want a weak Afghanistan are liars."


He also denied Karzai's claim that Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin
Laden and Taliban leader Mulla Mohammad Omar are in Pakistan,
saying the two men were "probably" holed up in Afghanistan.


Pakistan was the main backer of the Taliban regime before the
radical Islamists were ousted from power in Kabul by a US-led
invasion in 2001.


But Musharraf reversed that policy in the wake of the September
11, 2001 terror attacks on the United States and has deployed
90,000 troops in sensitive border areas in a bid to stop
Pakistan-based militants entering Afghanistan.


Many in Afghanistan remain deeply suspicious of Pakistan's
influence, saying Musharraf cannot or will not rein in elements
of his military intelligence who allegedly support the Sunni
extremist Taliban.


Islamabad says it has taken effective measures and accuses
Afghanistan of trying to shift the blame away from its own
failures to tackle a booming drug trade and warlords who are
impeding the government's writ in the country.


The Pakistani government has also been criticised for striking
peace deals with local militants in its tribal belt bordering
Afghanistan. Islamabad says the deals are designed to control
cross-border activity but Kabul says they have failed to stop
western Pakistan serving as a safe-haven for extremists.


Pakistan has also angered Afghan officials by starting work on a
35-kilometre (22-mile) fence on the disputed frontier.


Before flying to Ankara on Sunday, Karzai said he had "a lot of
hope" for the talks and "tremendous desire to have peace in this
region."


Afghan and Pakistani diplomats said no bilateral meeting was
scheduled between the two. On Sunday, they met at a dinner hosted
by Sezer.


There are nearly 50,000 US and NATO troops in Afghanistan to
fight the Taliban, whose five-year regime was based on a radical
interpretation of Islamic law and who gave sanctuary to Al-Qaeda.


US officials say they believe Saudi-born Al-Qaeda leader bin
Laden is hiding in the rugged belt straddling the Afghanistan-
Pakistan border, home to conservative ethnic Pashtun tribes.

