

A military tribunal began a hearing on Monday to decide whether a
senior US officer should be prosecuted for "aiding the enemy"
while serving as the commander of a prison camp in Iraq.


If the panel of officers decides to send Lieutenant Colonel
William Steele -- who has been accused of giving a cellphone to a
detainee and fraternising with his daughter -- to court martial,
he could face the death penalty.


Prior to his arrest two months ago, Steele was in charge of a
detention facility in Camp Cropper, a US base outside Baghdad.


The charge sheet covers offences allegedly committed between
October 1, 2005 and February 22, 2007, and includes the
allegation that he had an improper relationship with an Iraqi
interpreter and kept pornographic videos.


The charge sheet also accuses him of "wilfully failing to fulfil
obligations as an approving authority" in the expenditure of
funds.


Monday's Article 32 hearing was the first stage in a process
which could see Steel face a court martial -- if there is enough
evidence to charge him -- and much of it was conducted behind
closed doors.


Reporters were allowed into the hearing as a defence counsel
David Barrett asked to be provided with 18,000 documents relating
to the case, and be given more time to prepare his case.


"These are very serious charges. This is a potential capital
case," Barrett said.


Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Walker, representing the prosecution,
downplayed the importance of the documents, which he said "are
not relevant."


The hearing was carried out in a legal centre in Camp Victory, a
large American base just outside Baghdad, and the accused and all
the participants wore the US army's grey camouflage pattern
combat uniform.


Steele sat between his lawyers facing the head of the
investigatory panel, Colonel Elizabeth Fleming, and a large Stars
and Stripes flag.


Camp Cropper holds some of the most important the 19,000
detainees captured by US troops in Iraq. Before his execution for
crimes against humanity on December 30, ousted dictator Saddam
Hussein received medical treatment there.


Steele's arrest is the latest in a string of scandals to hit the
military prison system since the 2003 invasion. In 2004, pictures
of the abuse of detainees at the notorious Abu Ghraib prison west
of Baghdad shocked the world.

