

Cuban leader Fidel Castro has written that "market socialism"
will make China the 21st century's superpower, Venezuelan
President Hugo Chavez said Sunday.


Castro "wrote me about Mao Zedong and his original vision and
wound up saying how China, with its strategy of market socialism,
has become a superpower and will become the superpower of the
21st century," Chavez said.


"The socialism of the 21st century must adapt to conditions of
the 21st century," Chavez said of Castro's nine-page letter to
his Venezuelan friend and ally.


Castro is also reading the latest book by billionaire financier
and philanthropist George Soros, "The Age of Fallibility:
Consequences of the War on Terror," Chavez said.


Chavez spoke to reporters as Latin American leaders joined him to
talk trade.


"Fidel is in charge," Chavez said of the 80-year-old Cuban
leader, who is recovering from intestinal surgery nine months
ago. Castro temporarily handed over the reins of power to his
brother, Raul Castro, 75, on July 31.


Cuban officials say Fidel Castro has returned to perform many of
his previous functions, but there was no clear sign that Castro
would officiate on communism's most exalted holiday Wednesday:
International Workers' Day, on May 1, in Havana.


"Fidel is doing a lot of thinking," Castro told journalists
covering the summit.


The Cuban leader's letter dealt with the thoughts of the founder
of Chinese communism, Mao Zedong, and of the Argentine hero of
the Cuban revolution, Ernesto "Che" Guevara.


Castro closed his letter with: "Country, socialism or death. We
shall prevail."


Chavez has had the inside track on Castro's health over these
nine months, and is often the principal source on the Cuban
leader's condition.


Castro was conspicuous by his absence at the trade summit, which
included leftist presidents Evo Morales of Bolivia, Daniel Ortega
of Nicaragua and Rene Preval of Haiti as an observer.


The governments of Cuba, Ecuador, Uruguay and Caribbean nations
were represented at Chavez's beckoning to discuss his home-grown,
Latin American alternative to US-backed free-trade pacts: the
Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (ALBA), which is named
for Simon Bolivar, historically the liberator of northern South
America from Spain.


The summit met this weekend in Barquisimeto, 250 kilometers (150
miles) west of Caracas, three years after the trade group was
founded in Havana.

