

Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was in the United Arab Emirates
for a second day on Monday, seeking the resource-rich Gulf
state's support to bolster its energy security and to widen
economic ties.


Abe held talks with UAE Vice President Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid
al-Maktoum, who is also the ruler of Dubai, a day after meeting
the president, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan, in Abu Dhabi.


Details of the meeting were not immediately available.


Abe, who arrived in the UAE capital on Sunday on the first such
visit by a Japanese premier in almost three decades, will fly to
Kuwait later on Monday.


He agreed with Khalifa on Sunday to hold regular meetings between
the two countries' foreign and trade ministers, a Japanese
official said, adding that the first will be held "at the
earliest time" possible.


The two sides also agreed to accelerate efforts to reach a free
trade agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council, the official
said.


Japan and the six oil-rich GCC nations -- Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE -- began free trade talks last
year with the intention of concluding an accord in 2008.


On Sunday, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Abu
Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) signed an agreement to discuss
Japanese investment in resources-related projects in the UAE.


"The UAE is playing an important role in Japan's security of
stable energy supply, and it is extremely significant to
strengthen ties with ADNOC, a key player in that context," the
Japanese government-run bank said in a statement.


Japan's first leader to be born after World War II met crown
prince Sheikh Mohammad bin Zayed al-Nahayan late on Sunday and
agreed to bolster not only economic relations but also culture
and education ties.


"I would like to develop our bilateral relations in various
fields, including cultural aspects," Abe told the crown prince,
according to a Japanese government official who declined to be
named.


Abe arrived from Saudi Arabia, where he and King Abdullah agreed
to forge "multi-layered" ties and both men urged Iran to take a
constructive approach to resolve the crisis over Tehran's nuclear
ambitions.


The Japanese premier, who paid his first official visit to the
United States for a summit with Bush on Friday, is also due to
visit Egypt and Qatar during his five-day tour.


Japan is increasingly concerned by potential threats to its
energy supply. It has virtually no oil or gas reserves of its
own, and relies for more than 70 percent of its oil supply on the
four Gulf states that Abe is currently touring.


This is the second trip to the Middle East by a Japanese premier
in less than a year. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi,
travelled to Israel, the Palestinian territories and Jordan last
July.

