

Tony Blair marks 10 years as British prime minister Wednesday,
but at home and abroad the Iraq war and his support for the
United States clouds his legacy as he prepares to leave office.


Soon after coming to power on May 2, 1997 Blair voiced the hope
that his would be the first generation not to send its children
to war.


A decade later he has now sent his country's troops into battle
more times than any other British leader since the end of World
War II in 1945.


"Just as (former US president Richard) Nixon never threw off the
albatross of Watergate, so Blair may never step out of the shadow
of Iraq," political historian Dominic Sandbrook wrote in The
Observer newspaper on April 8.


The outgoing head of the Chatham House foreign affairs think-
tank, Victor Bulmer-Thomas, said last December that the Iraq war
was a "terrible mistake (that) will have policy repercussions for
many years to come".


"The root failure of Tony Blair's foreign policy has been its
inability to influence the Bush administration in any significant
way despite the sacrifice -- military, political and financial --
that the United Kingdom has made."


Even Sunder Katwala, general secretary of Labour's most eminent
think-tank The Fabian Society, told London-based foreign
correspondents recently: "His belligerent tone (over Iraq) has
clouded his achievements."


A recent poll suggested an overwhelming 58 percent of Britons see
Iraq as Blair's "biggest failure" and Britain had become a less
safe place as a result.


The four suicide bombers who attacked London in 2005, killing
themselves and 52 others, said British foreign policy,
particularly in Iraq, was a motivation.


For a man with little if any experience of international
relations before coming to power, Blair quickly developed a
foreign policy strategy.


Intervention in "other people's conflicts" being the "right thing
to do" to defend freedom and democracy, moderation and tolerance
over dictatorship and oppression, extremism and injustice, became
a familiar mantra.


Colleagues would later interpret Blair's overtly moral stance as
like a missionary zeal, informed by his strong Christian faith.


The September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States galvanised
that vision: mass terrorism was "the new evil in our world
today", he said.


At the time, Blair -- who travelled the world to drum up support
for military action against the Taliban -- was seen as a
positive, restraining influence on US President George W. Bush.


But his reputation at home and abroad was severely eroded as the
focus turned to Iraq from mid-2002.


The invasion took place in March 2003 despite massive opposition.
Weapons of mass destruction, the basis for it, were never found.
Four years on, violence rages daily in Iraq.


The perception of Blair as a slavish follower of the White House
appeared to be confirmed in mid-2006 when London and Washington
refused to join international calls for an end to Israel's
bombing of Lebanon.


But there are some positives, according to Paul Williams, author
of "British Foreign Policy under New Labour, 1997-2005".


Blair had at least attempted to consider the role of military
power in the foreign policy of a modern liberal democracy -- and
come to realise the interconnected nature of today's world, he
told AFP.


British involvement in US air strikes on Iraq in 1998, Kosovo,
Sierra Leone and East Timor in 1999 were genuine attempts to put
an ethical foreign policy into practice and enforce the will of
the United Nations, he added.


British foreign aid and development grants grew from 1997, Blair
pushed Africa up the domestic and international agenda by
creating the Africa Commission and the G8 deal to wipe out debt
of the world's poorest countries.


Britain has also announced plans to become the first country in
the world to outline a legal framework for forcing cuts in
greenhouse gas emissions.


Elsewhere, mnisterial colleagues say Blair was frustrated by his
lack of influence on the Bush administration over post-war
planning in Iraq.


He was also stymied by his finance minister Gordon Brown over
joining the single European currency, they told a BBC documentary
recently.


And Blair himself has complained that NATO allies are not pulling
their weight in the fight against the resurgent Taliban.


But for contemporaries Iraq overrides all that.


"For Blair, the personal tragedy is that Iraq has made
discreditable the very cause of liberal interventionism of which
he was such an eloquent and impassioned champion," The Observer's
Andrew Rawnsley wrote on April 8.


"Of all the unintended consequences of his premiership, that is
the most tragic."

