

Oil prices were little changed in Asian trade Monday with the
market assessing news of the arrests of alleged militants
plotting to bomb oil facilities in Saudi Arabia, dealers said.


They said the arrests sparked fresh concerns over possible
terrorist disruption of supplies but for the moment, players were
waiting cautiously for further developments.


At 2:30 pm (0630 GMT), New York's benchmark contract, light sweet
crude for June delivery was at 66.42 US dollars a barrel, down
four cents from 66.46 dollars in late US trades Friday.


Brent North Sea crude for June was down three cents to 68.38
dollars.


George Worthington, chief regional economist at Thomson IFR, said
the arrest of 172 militants in oil kingpin Saudi Arabia
"highlights the upside risk to oil prices."


Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, said Friday it
had seized arms and money, and rounded up 172 militants which it
charged were plotting attacks.


"Some individuals were training to fly to carry out terrorist
attacks ... Some of the cells arrested planned to target oil
installations and refineries," Saudi interior ministry spokesman
General Mansur al-Turki told AFP.


Five of those detained were linked to a failed attempt to blow up
an oil refinery, the world's largest, in Abqaiq in the oil-rich
Eastern Province in February 2006, according to the ministry.


"The main thing is Saudi Arabia," said Steve Rowles, an analyst
with CFC Seymour Securities in Hong Kong, adding the arrest of
the militants has "increased concerns there would be disruptions"
in crude supply from the Middle East.


"The overall risk factor has come back into play," he said.


Dealers said the market remains concerned over gasoline (petrol)
supplies, with the upcoming US summer driving season starting
next month when many Americans take to the road for their
vacation.


The US Department of Energy said last week that gasoline reserves
fell 2.8 million barrels in the week ending April 20, the 11th
consecutive weekly drop.

