

When the world's top minds on global warming sit down to work out
how to save the planet, altruism is an early casualty as self-
interest and politics take over, participants admit.


The scientists and experts working under the United Nations have
issued reports this year saying they are 90 percent certain that
humans are the cause of climate change and that Earth will suffer
enormously without urgent action.


Amid such dire forecasts, the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) began meeting in Bangkok on Monday to
devise a masterplan that would reduce the amount of greenhouse
gases that are blamed for climate change.


However delegates told AFP it was fanciful to believe all the
delegates had the interests of the planet at the top of their
agendas.


"We all know the IPCC has become politicised. It's like a battle
in there sometimes," one delegate from a poor African nation, who
did not want to be named, told AFP.


Peter Lukey, a delegate from South Africa's Department of
Environmental Affairs, described the negotiating process as
"highly frustrating", as each nation inevitably fights to protect
its own economic and political interests.


"Countries that have a strongly established fossil fuel-based
economy are going to fight against mitigating against fossil
fuel," Lukey said, referring to calls to cut back carbon
pollution such as coal and oil.


"Countries that are building their economies on fossil fuel are
going to be equally as strong because that has an impact on their
future economic growth."


Lukey said the only way forward was to find compromises that
suited rich nations as well as poor.


"(But) it's very difficult at these negotiations to try to find
that level of compromise and to try to find sustainable solutions
that are equitable," he said.


Rajendra Pachauri, chair of the IPCC, acknowledged as much.


"The IPCC doesn't have any muscle, it has grey matter," Pachauri
said. "The muscle will have to come from somewhere else."


The WWF and other environmental groups that are also involved in
the IPCC process have said repeatedly that saving the planet from
the worst impacts of climate change does not require huge
economic sacrifice.


"This is affordable. This is only going to cost the world 0.1
percent per year of our GDP (gross domestic product)... it's
peanuts," WWF global climate change director Hans Verolme said
here.


However, not everyone agrees that cutting greenhouse gas
emissions and turning to alternative technologies that pollute
less heavily can come that cheaply.


The United States and China, the world's biggest greenhouse gas
polluters, refuse to accept any internationally binding caps on
their emissions, saying the economic costs would be too great.


This has drawn sharp criticism from the European Union, which has
pledged to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent from
1990 levels by 2020.


China meanwhile made it clear it did not want rich nations to
dictate how the rising Asian powerhouse should develop its
economy after the Europeans and other enjoyed a carbon-heavy ride
to prosperity.


"I hope this gathering can produce balanced views, not just the
views of the developed countries," Sun Guoshun, a delegate from
China's foreign affairs ministry, told AFP.


Nevertheless, delegates agree a consensus will be reached at the
end of the IPCC meeting on Friday. The question is how
compromised the masterplan will be.

