

The private equity consortium bidding to take over Australia's
biggest airline Qantas on Monday urged shareholders to approve
its offer as it revealed acceptances had dropped again as the
deadline looms.


The Macquarie Bank-led Airline Partners Australia (APA)
consortium said its 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) offer
will collapse unless they secure 50 percent of the company's
shares by Friday.


As of Monday, acceptances including a facility where institutions
can take the offer but retain the right to withdraw their shares,
were at 25.51 percent, down from 27.8 percent last week after
some fund managers sold stock on the open market.


APA director Bob Mansfield said the offer would close
unsuccessfully unless the consortium's stake rose significantly
by Friday.


"Despite public comments by one or two vocal shareholders, a
clear majority of Qantas shareholders (by number) have accepted
the offer and want it to succeed," Mansfield said.


"Remaining shareholders who wish to accept the offer should do so
immediately."


On Sunday, key institutional shareholder Balanced Equity
Management, which holds a 4.0 percent stake in Qantas, said it
would reject the offer and reiterated its view that it was
significantly below an acceptable price.


The consortium ran large advertisements in major newspapers on
Monday to urge all shareholders to accept the offer at 5.45
dollars per share.


But the offer appears less attractive than it did when was
launched last December because the Australian stock market has
soared and Qantas has issued three profit upgrades since then.


If the consortium, which includes US private equity giant Texas
Pacific Group and Canada's Onex Group, achieves the 50 percent
acceptance level by Friday, the offer will automatically be
extended for 14 days.


APA, which has already made several concessions to ensure the
deal goes through, last month lowered its minimum acceptance
level from 90 to 70 percent.


Mansfield said major investors usually waited until the last week
before accepting offers to ensure they retained control of their
investment for as long as possible.


But he warned: "If the offer fails, it is almost certain that the
Qantas share price will fall."


Qantas closed unchanged Monday at 5.32 dollars.

