

The Giro d'Italia and Tour de France may be a long way off for
some - but the conclusion of the spring classics season on Sunday
has brought the pink and yellow jerseys even closer.


The Tour of Romandie begins Tuesday with six of days of mostly
climbing in the Swiss mountains signalling the steady run in to
the first two Grand Tours of the season.


The three-week Giro begins on May 12, and the tour of Romandie
gives the race's pink jersey aspirants a chance to test their
legs over some tough climbing terrain.


Cadel Evans of the Predictor-Lotto team is the reigning champion,
but race director Richard Chassot feels the "difficult" layout
will test the legs of even Australia's best mountain climber.


"It's really quite a difficult course this year, although well-
balanced," he said.


"All in all, it's 667 km in total and 9500 metres in variation in
altitude."


In layman's terms, that a fair bit of climbing - although the
peloton will begin with a relatively easy 3.5km prologue time
trial in Fribourg on Tuesday.


Subsequent stages will then visit Chaux-de-Fonds, Lucens,
Charmey, Morgins and Lausanne, where the race's final, and
perhaps decisive, time trial over a distance of 20.4km will be
held.


The hardest day in the mountains will be Saturday's fourth stage
which features climbs over Jaun, du Pillon, the ascent towards
Villars and the final climb to Morgins.


Australian Robbie McEwen and Switzerland-based Spaniard Oscar
Freire will likely use the race to hone their spriting legs for
the Giro.


But the only real chance for the sprinters to steal some
limelight from the general classification riders will be in
Thursday's much flatter second stage over 167km which finishes in
Lucens.


Cassot added: "This is a course for tough, all-round riders who
have some talent. A real stage race that can be appreciated by
the contenders for the Giro d'Italia and the Tour de France."


Challenging Evans, who last year secured his second consecutive
top ten finish in the Tour de France, will be Spain's Oscar
Peirero, who finished runner-up to disgraced winner Floyd Landis
in Paris, Russian Denis Menchov, Italian Paolo Salvodelli, Kazakh
Andrei Kashechkin and Luxemburger Frank Schleck.


Italian Danilo Di Luca capped a series of solid performances in
the latter races of the spring classics by winning Liege-
Bastogne-Liege on Sunday.

