

Britain's economy has flourished under the decade-long tenure of
Prime Minister Tony Blair and his likely successor, finance
minister Gordon Brown, but economists expect a difficult period
ahead.


Blair, who will have served as premier for ten years on May 2,
has vowed to step down by September and is likely to announce a
firm date after local elections next month.


"Compared with previous decades, it has been macroeconomic
stability with good growth, and that is the headline view," said
professor Iain Begg at the London School of Economics, in
reference to the Blair-Brown years.


"The big picture is that things have gone well but there are one
or two concerns that ought to be addressed," he added, citing low
productivity, an overheated housing market and some inefficient
use of public sector spending.


Steered by low interest rates, low unemployment and low
inflation, the British economy has grown by an annual average of
2.8 percent since 1997, when Blair's Labour government won power
in a landslide election.


That compared favourably with annual average of 2.2 percent in
France and 1.5 percent in Germany over the same period.


But a critical economists' report has suggested that the British
economic boom has been based on consumers and the government
borrowing more to finance their overspending.


Britain is "skating -- not to say wobbling -- on thin ice," said
Peter Spencer, chief economic adviser at the ITEM Club, an
economic forecasting group backed by Ernst and Young.


"The bottom line is that we are all living beyond our means,"
Spencer added in the group's spring forecast.


The ITEM Club cautioned that homeowners were borrowing greater
amounts while facing interest rates that are predicted to rise to
5.50 percent next month.


The state itself was also borrowing more, with overall public
sector net borrowing likely to be 34 billion pounds (50 billion
euros, 68 billion dollars) in 2007-08. That compared to the 31
-billion-pound projection in Brown's pre- Budget report last
December.


The Blair years, meanwhile, have seen the unemployment rate fall
to around 5.4 percent, according to the most recent data,
compared with a figure of 7.2 percent in May 1997.


Begg added: "Part of the explanation for Britain's strong
employment performance is that the public sector has grown and
there might just be a storm cloud (because) in every other
European country the pressure has been to reduce the size of the
public sector.


"It may store up future problems because it means that taxes have
to remain high in the future to pay for it."


Brown's successor at the Treasury -- the powerful government
department in charge of the public purse strings -- must
therefore address the more efficient use of government cash in
the public sector, Begg added.


From a social point of view, New Labour's landmark achievement
was the introduction of the minimum wage in 1999, despite
opposition from employers who claimed it would hike their costs.


Since 1997, however, a total of 2.7 million new jobs in Britain
have been created, half in the public sector.


The past decade has also witnessed an explosion in the property
market -- the average house price has almost tripled -- while
total household debt, excluding home loans, has soared above 1.3
trillion pounds.


The International Monetary Fund has described Britain's economic
growth story as "impressive" -- but has warned about froth in the
bubbly property market.


Labour Party ministers Blair and Brown have also won plaudits for
one of their first moves in government -- the decision in 1997 to
hand decision-making on central interest rates to the Bank of
England.


As a result, experts say that inflation has largely remained
under control and the country has benefited from a decade of low
interest rates.


"He's obviously enjoyed a fabulously successful time as
chancellor in terms of economic growth and inflation," said
economist George Buckley at Deutsche Bank of potential prime
minister Gordon Brown.


"But he is still going to be held responsible partly if things
look significantly worse over the next ten years."

