

Canada's Foreign Minister Peter MacKay demanded consular access
to a jailed Canadian citizen in China on Monday during a meeting
with his newly appointed counterpart Yang Jiechi.


MacKay said discussions concerning Chinese-born Huseyin Celil --
an ethnic Uighur jailed for life earlier this month for
separatist activities in China's western-most Xinjiang region --
were central to his four-hour talks with Yang.


"Gaining access to Mr Celil is an important issue of this
government and we will continue to pursue it," MacKay told
journalists.


"I ... expressed our deep disappointment that we have thus far
been denied access to this Canadian citizen."


Celil fled China a decade ago and arrived in Canada in 2001 as a
refugee, and became a Canadian citizen.


He had been an active religious leader in the predominantly
Uighur region of Xinjiang, where opposition to Chinese rule has
long simmered.


Celil was arrested in the Uzbek capital of Tashkent on March 27,
2006 while trying to renew a visitor's visa in his Canadian
passport and was extradited to China from Uzbekistan.


China has refused to allow him access to Canadian diplomats in
accordance with a consular treaty between the two nations,
apparently because Beijing  refuses to recognise Celil's Canadian
citizenship.


During discussions, Yang, who became China's top diplomat this
week after taking over for the just-retired Li Zhaoxing,
maintained that Celil was being treated humanely in prison and
had not been tortured, MacKay said.


"We would very much like to have access ourselves to make that
determination," he added.


Last week, China insisted that Celil was a terrorist bent on
"splitting" Xinjiang from the nation, and that the case was an
internal Chinese affair.


"We believe this case is an internal affair of China and in
essence is an issue of anti-terrorism," China's foreign ministry
spokesman Liu Jianchao said.


"It has no connection with Canada. We hope the Canadian side will
not interfere in China's internal affairs under this pretext."

