

Australian uranium mining hopefuls now have more chance of moving
into production after the Labor Party dropped its longstanding
"no new uranium mines" policy, analysts said Monday.


With opinion polls showing that Labor has a strong chance of
winning power in elections this year, the party's move at its
national conference at the weekend translated into support for
uranium stocks on the local bourse Monday.


Energy Resources of Australia rose 0.74 or 3.02 percent to finish
at 25.22 dollars, Summit Resources added 0.02 to 5.73 and Deep
Yellow jumped 0.04 or 6.30 percent to 0.675.


Australia holds 40 percent of the world's known uranium reserves
but falls behind Canada in production because the Labor Party
(ALP) had capped the number of mines at just three since 1984.


These are BHP Billiton's Olympic Dam project in South Australia,
Rio Tinto controlled Energy Resources of Australia Ltd's Ranger
mine in The Northern Territory and US-based General Atomics'
Beverley mine in South Australia.


It is now up to individual states, which are all ruled by Labor
governments, to endorse uranium mining at a state level.


ABN Amro resources analyst Warren Edney said uranium mining
hopefuls with projects in South Australia and the Northern
Territory would benefit most in the near-term.


Edney said the South Australian government had already relaxed to
opposition to new uranium mines, hosting the next mine likely to
be developed -- the Honeymoon project owned by Toronto-listed sxr
Uranium Inc.


The Northern Territory government last year handed over power to
approve new mines to the federal government, putting companies
with uranium projects there in a position to contemplate
development now.


"It is a move forward in that the ALP has said yes they will
allow uranium mining but they've also allowed the states to
choose, so what it does is free up the federal government to go
ahead and allow uranium mining in the Northern Territory without
going against ALP policy," Edney said.


Edney said there were other projects in South Australia and the
Northern Territory which already had feasibility studies done
which may now move ahead to development.


But governments in the other two states with known uranium
deposits could maintain their opposition.


"There's more uncertainty with Western Australia and Queensland
though there would be bigger upside say in Western Australia if
the government there changes its mind," Edney said.


The Australian Uranium Association welcomed Labor's decision to
remove its prohibition on the development of new uranium mines.


Executive director Michael Angwin said that for the first time in
30 years there was broad-based political support for the
expansion of uranium exploration, mining and exports.


"This will help build the confidence of the industry to invest
and grow," Angwin said.

