

French presidential rivals Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal
come face-to-face Wednesday in a television debate that is
expected to mark the high point in the battle for the Elysee.


A record audience of more than 20 million viewers is set to tune
in to the major television networks for the two-hour debate that
will see the rightwinger and socialist engage in a verbal joust
four days before the vote.


Beyond the clash of ideas, the debate could be revealing of the
personalities of the candidates, with Sarkozy coming under close
scrutiny following criticism that he is too high-strung to be at
the helm of a European power.


Sarkozy, the candidate of President Jacques Chirac's governing
party, said Sunday he was approaching the presidential debate
"with respect, but also with firmness" and attacked the "sexist
view" that "you cannot debate with a woman in the same way that
you would with a man".


"The issue for the French people is not whether to elect a man or
a woman, but to have someone who carries weight, who has
experience to take on these responsibilities and who has a clear
plan to resolve the problems of the French people," he said.


Royal separately said "the debate will be important and it will
be difficult", noting that some 200 polls had put Sarkozy in the
lead since the beginning.


"There will be a clear confrontation, and no one will play the
victim," she said.


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, is widely seen as a
skilled orator, quick on his feet, with a gift for repartee.


Royal's glamorous good looks and calm demeanour are seen as
assets in her bid to upstage her rival and dispel any doubts
about her ability to conduct the affairs of the state.


"Sarkozy needs to win without crushing her, to dominate without
looking worrying," commented Dominique Reynie from the Institute
of Political Science.


"She has to show that she is as good as he is, or at least hold
her ground," said Reynie.


The latest poll showed Sarkozy beating Royal with 52 percent of
votes against 48 percent, even if the Socialist is set to win the
lion's share of votes cast for centrist Francois Bayrou in the
April 22 first round.


The Sarkozy-Royal debate already promises to rank among the most
memorable of France's last four presidential TV encounters, in
which the winner has gone on to romp to victory in the election.


Most French remember the 1974 clash between Francois Mitterrand
and Valery Giscard d'Estaing who proclaimed "You do not, Monsieur
Mitterrand, have a monopoly on the heart" after the Socialist
suggested that he was out of touch with the poor and
disenfranchised.


There was also a moment of truth in 1988 between Mitterrand,
seeking a second term as president, and then prime minister
Jacques Chirac, who insisted that as candidates they should
address each other by their names instead of titles.


"You are absolutely right, Mister Prime Minister," Mitterrand
retorted to a dumbstruck Chirac.


Presidential candidates have sparred in every election since 1974
except in 2002, when Chirac declined to sit down with far-right
leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, arguing that he would not dignify his
extremist views in a debate.


Both Sarkozy, 52, and Royal, 53, are aware of the high stakes in
the crucial rendez-vous, delegating their top campaign
strategists to meetings to meticulously prepare the debate.


Under an agreement reached last week, the candidates are to be
seated on each side of a wooden table -- Royal on the left,
Sarkozy on the right -- at a distance of about two metres (6.5
feet) from each other.


France's top television interviewers Arlette Chabot and Patrick
Poivre d'Arvor will act as moderators during the programme called
"2007 - The Debate" to be aired live starting at 9:00 pm (1900
GMT).

