

Two-time snooker world champion Ronnie 'Rocket' O'Sullivan
dominated the first session of his world championship second
round match with Australia's Neil Robertson here on Sunday taking
a 6-2 lead.


The Englishman is bidding to avenge two defeats at the hands of
Robertson this season which has seen the Australian become the
only cuesman to win two ranking tournaments.


Neither player was on top form, producing their best play in the
opening two frames as Robertson made a clearance of 87 to take
the first one while O'Sullivan replied with a break of 104 in the
second.


However with Robertson seemingly out of sorts, just as he had
been in the first round, O'Sullivan eased into a 5-1 lead as the
Australian committed some awful howlers.


He did claw back to 5-2 after a break of 70, but let O'Sullivan
back in to take the last.


A drawn-out third frame contained a contender for shot of the
championship as Robertson escaped from a difficult snooker with a
breathtaking swerve shot.


Unfortunately for the world number 13, he then produced one of
the worst misses of the week on the frame ball blue which seemed
to rock his confidence badly.


A fluked red in the fourth helped O'Sullivan to extend his lead,
and Robertson fared little better after the mid-session interval
with several chances passing him by.


World number one Stephen Hendry's hopes for an eighth world title
were hanging by the slenderest thread, however, after Ali Carter
built a 12-4 lead in their second-round match to leave him one
frame from victory.


The seven-time champion, playing in his first tournament with a
new cue, trailed 6-2 after the first session and was again
completely outshone by the world number 15 who beat Hendry in the
Malta Cup quarter-finals earlier this season.


Carter's break-building has been impressive and in addition to
the 78 and 72 twice he made in the first session, he knocked in
runs of 83 twice and a 66 to leave the world number one's spirits
visibly crushed.


There was better news for Scotland, however, on the other table
as John Higgins also left himself needing only one frame to book
a quarter-final place.


The 1998 champion, who has struggled in the second half of the
season, looked in terrific form as he won six of eight frames to
lead 12-4 against Fergal O'Brien.


In four of the last six frames the Irishman failed to score a
point and registered only one in another as Higgins rattled in
breaks of 100, 98 and 85, plus the evening's highlight, a 135
that equalled the highest contribution of the tournament so far.

