

The world's leading climate change experts gathered Monday in
Bangkok to consider how to lower greenhouse gas emissions to save
the planet from the worst effects of global warming.


At least 400 experts from about 120 countries will attend the
third session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC), the UN's leading authority on global warming.


Two reports issued earlier this year said the Earth was already
warming and predicted severe consequences including drought,
flooding, violent storms and increased hunger and disease.


The third report -- the last instalment of the IPCC's biggest
investigation in six years -- will lay out ways to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and prevent a climate catastrophe
without seriously impacting on the global economy.


An early draft seen by AFP says that world leaders have little
time to waste, but that the tools for reducing emissions already
exist, with renewable energy, nuclear power, bio-fuels and
reforestation all in the basket.


But as wary governments lock horns on key issues, much of the
draft will end up on the cutting room floor.


"It's likely to be completely rewritten," said Michael Williams,
spokesman for the United Nations Environment Programme.


"It's quite natural that (when) you have 120 people looking at a
text that other people have written, they are going to go through
it and try and put it into their own language," he added.


Sticking points at the Bangkok meeting could include taxes and
caps on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and any references to the
Kyoto Protocol, which US President George W. Bush abandoned after
he took office.


Experts predict that the European Union -- which has pledged to
reduce its CO2 emissions by 20 percent by 2020 -- could face off
against the United States and China, the world's biggest carbon
polluters.


Any mention of nuclear energy in the final draft, which is due to
be released Friday, would incur the wrath of many environmental
groups.


"Nuclear is a big issue and it is trying to make a comeback and
posing as an alternative, a solution, to climate change," said
Abigail Gay Jabines, climate campaigner for environment group
Greenpeace.


"In fact it is not an option. It never is an option."


The draft of the report's 24-page summary says that the cost of
cutting greenhouse gas emissions could be modest, with better
fuel efficiency, subsidies for renewable energy and more energy-
efficient buildings on the table.


One of the key issues set to be hotly debated when delegates
retreat behind closed doors Monday is a so-called carbon price --
finding a way to make consumers and businesses pay for the
pollution they create.


The findings of the report, which stops short of making
recommendations, will be used by governments and international
organisations to map out their own plans for preventing worst-
case climate scenarios.


"The IPCC plays an incredibly important role in the political
negotiations so people can point and say 'look, this is what is
going to happen in 50 years, these are the options available for
us to take actions,'" said Williams.


The findings will play a key role in Kyoto negotiations, which
will take place in December on the Indonesian island of Bali.

