

Chinese share prices rose 1.18 percent in Monday morning trade,
as investors shrugged off concerns about the central bank's
latest move to tighten credit and cool the roaring economy,
dealers said.


They said property and retail stocks were in favour as punters
ignored the central bank's announcement Sunday that it would
raise the amount of money banks must hold in reserve by 50 basis
points.


Sunday's notice made for the fourth time the central bank has
hiked the required reserve ratio since January as regulators
fight to stem rising liquidity in the financial system that in
turns drives up lending and can cause economic overheating.


Last month, it also raised the benchmark one-year lending rate by
0.27 percentage points, in another move to slow an economy that
raced ahead at 11.1 percent growth in the first quarter.


Although the latest decision on banks' reserve requirements will
not take effect until May 15, analysts warned some corrections
were expected after this week's Labour day holidays.


The said that investors remain somewhat concerned about the plan
to launch index futures -- a hedging tool that can sometimes
spark precipitous volatility -- especially since Chinese share
prices remain sky-high.


"The market saw some profit-taking in the run-up to the May 1
holidays, and there are also concerns that the central bank will
issue further policies to curb the excessive liquidity," said
Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants Securities.


"After the May 1 holidays, the market could see some corrections
as the corporate earnings season is over, and the index futures
could be launched soon," Wang added.


Authorities and investors have also repeatedly warned that
China's stock markets, up more than 200 percent since January
2006, are seriously overheated and a sharp correction is
necessary to bring prices back into line with what is considered
healthy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, ended the morning
up 44.26 points at 3,804.12, after hitting an intraday all-time
high of 3,815.12.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 45.66 points or 1.16 percent at
3,996.50 and the Shenzhen A-share Index was up 3.86 points or
0.35 percent at 1,102.26.

