

At least three people were killed Sunday, including the
assailant, when a gunman opened fire at a shopping mall in Kansas
City, Missouri, police said.


The rattle of gunshots sent shoppers scrambling for cover at the
Ward Parkway Center, a popular shopping plaza in the midwestern
state of Missouri, witnesses said.


Police captain Rich Lockhart said the gunman shot and killed a
man and a woman in the outdoor parking lot of the mall. The
shooter then ran inside the mall carrying a "long gun" and was
gunned down by police.


"Two people, a male and a female, were found shot to death on
each side of the vehicle the man was driving," Lockhart said,
adding that at least two other people had received gunshot
wounds.


"The gunman was shot by police inside the mall," he said.


The shopping center had been entirely locked down and
investigators were treating it as a "giant crime scene," police
spokesman Tony Sanders said.


Television footage showed armed police running toward the mall
and one man who was apparently wounded in the shooting, sitting
on a curb with blood streaming down his face as he covered one
eye with a piece of cloth.


One shopper, Cathy Crist, told the Kansas City Star newspaper she
had been eating lunch inside the mall when she heard shots that
seemed to come from the parking lot outside.


She heard women scream, "He's killing us," before she dove under
a table for cover, the report said.


The shootings came less than two weeks after a mentally ill South
Korean college student went on a shooting rampage at Virginia
Tech university, killing 32 people before turning his weapon on
himself.


The Kansas City suspect's identity was not yet known, Lockhart
said.


Investigators had no motive for the shooting and were trying to
piece together a crime that began earlier in the day when police
responded to a request to check on an elderly woman at home.


The woman's dead body was discovered inside her house, and her
car had stolen. When police pulled over a man driving a car that
matched the vehicle's description, the driver shot and wounded a
44-year-old police officer in the arm.


The same vehicle was found in the mall parking lot, leading
investigators to believe the same suspect went on to the mall and
carried out the lethal shooting, Lockhart said.

