

Philippine President Gloria Arroyo ordered the military Monday to
help police maintain order amid escalating violence in the run-up
to May 14 mid-term elections.


She made the announcement hours after the mayor of the northern
city of San Carlos, Julian Resuello, died in a Manila hospital
early Monday after he was shot at a beauty festival.


One of his aides died instantly and seven others were wounded in
the attack late Saturday.


In a separate incident, the mayor of Morong in Bataan, north of
the capital Manila, survived an attack on his home when gunmen
sprayed it with automatic fire.


Arroyo ordered the military to help police dismantle "private
armies" as political violence increases.


"I am calling on the armed forces to reinforce the police, under
Comelec (Commission on Elections) authority to stop election
violence and move forcefully against those using threats and
intimidation for partisan politics," Arroyo said in a statement.


"All identified private armies must be pre-empted and
dismantled."


The Philippines goes to the polls in the next two weeks to elect
12 senators, the entire 230-seat House of Representatives and
thousands of local officials from members of town councils to
mayors and provincial governors.


But elections here are often marred by violence, with rival
politicians, especially in the provinces, maintaining armed
groups -- effectively private armes -- to intimidate or harass
opponents.


On Thursday, a town council candidate and a policeman were killed
in an ambush by suspected political rivals in the town of Jaen in
northern Nueva Ecija province.


Seventeen others were wounded, including three policemen, forcing
Comelec to place the province under its security watch to prevent
further bloodshed.


In the 2004 presidential elections, 148 deaths were recorded and
111 deaths were linked to the 2001 mid-term polls.


So far in this election 25 people have been killed.


National police chief Oscar Calderon said at the weekend that
only 52 of 90 known private armies controlled by politicians
nationwide have been dismantled and some 2,000 individuals
illegally carrying guns were arrested.

