

Floyd Landis claimed Sunday that electronically stored data from
disputed dope tests conducted on his 2006 Tour de France stage 17
samples had been destroyed at a French laboratory.


Simon Davis, a technical consultant for Landis, told the cyclist
that "critical evidence stored as electronic data files had been
erased from the hard drive and the original data destroyed at the
Laboratoire National de Depistage du Dopage (LNDD)," according to
a release issued by Landis spokesman Michael Henson on Sunday.


"The existing data bears indication of alteration," the release
said.


Davis was at the LNDD last Thursday, along with representatives
of the US Anti- Doping Agency (USADA), to witness the extraction
of the data files by an independent expert commissioned to
retrieve and analyze the files.


The files were electronically preserved records of the Isotope
Ratio Mass Spectometry tests conducted on Landis' stage 17
samples.


Landis won the Tour de France in dramatic fashion last year,
rebounding from a spectacular collapse on stage 16 to cap a 130km
breakaway with victory on stage 17.


It was after stage 17 that one sample from the American cyclist
tested positive for elevated levels of the male sex hormone,
which is produced in the body but which also exists in a
synthetic form.


In fighting the doping charge, which could cost him the Tour
title as well as a ban, Landis has repeatedly charged the LNDD of
mis-handling his samples.


In the case of the electronic data, Landis said that the LNDD,
prior to the arrival of the independent expert and Davis, had
destroyed the original electronic files of the relevant test
results, "exposing the files to potential tampering."


Landis' charge comes in the wake of a report in the French
newspaper L'Equipe that re-tests of some of his samples from the
race - ordered by USADA - had shown evidence of synthetic
testosterone, albeit in amounts too small to constitute a
positive result.


On Sunday Landis again blasted USADA for allowing the testing of
previously cleared samples, and for denying him access to
evidence in the case against him.


Facing a hearing in his case on May 14, Landis said he was
considering an appeal to the US Department of Justice to
investigate the use of government funds in the adjudication of
his anti-doping proceedings.


"I have every confidence that they can determine if any misuse of
federal funds and any resulting criminal activity has taken place
on the part of USADA in my case," he said.

