

A South Korean tycoon faces formal arrest after police questioned
him for 11 hours about a revenge attack for an assault on his
son, news reports said Monday.


Police plan to seek an arrest warrant for Hanwha Group chairman
Kim Seung-Youn, 55, on charges relating to the abduction and
beating of Seoul bar employees last month, Yonhap news agency
said.


Police officials reached by AFP said Kim was released early
Monday after 11 hours of questioning, but refused to comment on a
possible arrest warrant.


The incident sparked a media outcry because of perceptions that
leaders of the country's mighty conglomerates, or chaebol, are
sometimes above the law.


Hanwha, South Korea's 10th largest conglomerate, has insisted Kim
was not directly involved in the retaliatory beating. The
presidential Blue House, in an unusual intervention, has told
police to mount a thorough investigation.


TV footage showed an exhausted-looking Kim leaving a police
compound. He apologised again for "causing a stir" but remained
tight-lipped over whether he was personally involved in the
gangster-style attack.


Hankyoreh newspaper, quoting the chief police investigator, said
Kim flatly denied having personally used violence. Victims of the
attack reportedly contradicted his claims.


Kim's son Dong-Won, a 22-year-old Yale University student,
received 10 stitches to his face after falling downstairs during
a bar fight in March.


Hanwha security officials allegedly stormed the bar that evening
in a revenge attack on people, mostly bar workers, involved in
the brawl.


Hankyoreh said the mob, after failing to find the person who
directly assaulted Kim's son, kidnapped and beat up another four
bar employees for 20 minutes at a construction site on a mountain
south of Seoul.


Kim apologised in a statement Friday as the case snowballed,
making headlines and drawing criticism from media and
politicians.


Hanwha said in a statement released overnight that Kim, far from
being a gangster-like figure, was a soft-hearted father.

