

South Korean police said Monday they will seek an arrest warrant
for a tycoon who allegedly abducted and beat victims with a steel
pipe after his son got into a bar brawl.


Hanwha Group chairman Kim Seung-Youn, 55, was questioned for 11
hours overnight about the revenge attack. He denies he was
personally involved.


The incident has sparked a media outcry because of perceptions
that leaders of the country's mighty conglomerates, or chaebol,
are often above the law. Hanwha is the country's 10th-largest
group.


The presidential Blue House, in an unusual intervention, has told
police to mount a thorough investigation.


"When to seek an arrest warrant will be decided in consideration
of corroborating investigations about the contradictory
statements by those involved and (after) questioning of Kim's
son," Jang Hee-Gon, a Seoul police captain in charge of the case,
told a news conference.


Jang said the suspects included "chairman Kim, his son and a
multiple number of people", while the victims included six Seoul
bar employees.


"Despite the consistent statements by the six victimised bar
employees that they were beaten up, the suspect (chairman Kim)
denies their claims," Jang said.


According to a written police report, the victims say chairman
Kim hit them on the back with a steel pipe and kicked them in the
face and body scores of times at a construction site on a
mountain near Seoul.


Jang said police had yet to secure visual evidence to support the
statements. They were tracing mobile communications records of
Kim or his driver to check his whereabouts at the time.


An exhausted looking Kim, seen leaving a police compound in the
morning, apologised for "causing a stir."


Kim's son, Dong-Won, a 22-year-old Yale University student who
was Monday visiting China, received 10 stitches to his face after
falling downstairs during the bar fight on March 8.


His father and bodyguards allegedly stormed the bar that evening
in a revenge attack on people, mostly bar workers, involved in
the brawl.


Local newspapers say the bodyguards and the elder Kim failed to
find the person who directly assaulted Kim's son. They then
kidnapped and beat up other bar employees at the mountain site.


Kim apologised in a statement Friday as the case snowballed,
making headlines and drawing criticism from media and
politicians.

