

The Dallas' Mavericks' bid to get back to the National Basketball
Association finals was on the rocks Sunday after another shock
loss to the Golden State Warriors.


Baron Davis scored 33 points and the Golden State Warriors
stormed back to beat the top-seeded Mavericks 103-99.


They took a three-games-to-one lead in their best-of-seven
Western Conference first-round series.


"We came to play tonight, but we just didn't have a good finish
to the game," Mavericks coach Avery Johnson said.


"We gave Baron different looks, but he's just making tough shots.
We tried to trap him five times, and he got through our traps,
that's not a good sign. We've got to do a better job of, when we
do trap him, we get the ball out of his hands.


"He's a strong willed guy," Johnson added of Davis. "You've just
got to beat him."


Jason Richardson added 22 points as the Warriors moved one win
away from becoming the first No. 8 seed to oust a No. 1 in a
best-of-seven series.


After being blown out by Golden State 109-91 in game three, the
Mavericks appeared ready to reclaim home-court advantage in the
opening five minutes of the fourth quarter.


Jerry Stackhouse banked in a shot clock-beating 3-pointer and
followed it with another jumper to give Dallas an 88-81 lead with
7:21 to play.


Instead of folding, the Warriors held the Mavs to one field goal
in the next 6 1/2 minutes and rattled off 15 of the next 17
points to take a 96-90 lead on a long jumper by Davis with 57
seconds to play.


Jason Terry finally slowed the surge with a 3-pointer to cut the
lead to 96-93, but Matt Barnes answered from the arc to make it
99-93 with 23 seconds left.


Dallas superstar Dirk Nowitzki drained two long two long
3-pointers - his first of the series - 11 seconds apart to pull
the Mavericks within 101-99 with 3.9 to play.


After Davis split two free throws with 3.2 seconds left, the Mavs
had a chance at a tying 3-pointer, but Mickael Pietrus picked off
the inbounds pass at half- court to seal the victory.


Davis finished 12-of-17 from the floor, including 3-of-4 from the
arc for the Warriors, who won despite being out-rebounded 49-33.


Stackhouse scored 24 points, Nowitzki added 23 and 15 rebounds
and Josh Howard had 22 and 12 for the Mavericks, who will try to
stay alive when the series returns to Dallas for game five on
Tuesday.


In contrast, the second-seeded Phoenix Suns head home with a 3-1
lead over the Lakers after a 113-100 victory in Los Angeles.


Steve Nash handed out 23 assists - one shy of the NBA playoff
record - and Amare Stoudemire dominated inside with 27 points and
21 rebounds as the Suns moved within one victory of a second-
round berth.


The Suns kept Kobe Bryant somewhat contained with 31 points as
they put themselves in position to oust the Lakers in the first
round for the second straight year. Last year, they did it the
hard way, falling in a 1-3 hole and winning the last three games
for the win.


"We didn't want another seven-game series like we did last year,"
Suns forward Shawn Marion said. "We did all we could do to not
let this series go any farther and get it over quickly."


Nash, the two-time NBA Most Valuable Player, Nash repeatedly
weaved his way through the defense, maintaining his dribble while
changing speeds and finding open teammates with pinpoint passes.


"He's making passes like a quarterback," Suns guard Raja Bell
said. "It's like four people are open at the same time and he's
throwing it before the receiver is coming out of their break.
There is not a whole lot of guys that can do that with a
basketball."


Nash scored 17 points but was even more effective as a
distributor, falling one assist shy of the all-time playoff
record shared by John Stockton and Magic Johnson, who was in
attendance.


Often on the receiving end was Stoudemire, who looked like the
fearsome force he was in the 2005 playoffs. Fully recovered from
microfracture surgery that cost him nearly all of last season,
Stoudemire put together the first 20-20 game of the postseason.


Together, the two All-Stars overwhelmed the Lakers, as Bryant's
teammates failed to deliver the help he needed.


"When Nash gets in the lane and kicks it to Amare and to Shawn
and guys in the paint, we've got to do a better job of getting to
them and not letting them get easy baskets," Bryant said.


Despite 20 points by Bryant, Phoenix led 58-51 at halftime. That
was primarily due to the playmaking of Nash, whose 15 assists
allowed him to join Johnson and Doc Rivers as the record holders
for one half.

