

Japan and Kazakhstan have agreed to launch talks on cooperation
in peaceful use of nuclear energy with the Central Asian nation
increasing its uranium shipments to Tokyo, press reports said
Monday.


The agreement was mentioned in a joint statement issued in Astana
by Kazakh Prime Minister Karim Masimov and Akira Amari, the
Japanese minister of economy, trade and industry, the Jiji and
Kyodo news agencies said.


If the talks proceed smoothly, Kazakh's share in Japan's uranium
imports is expected to reach 30-40 percent from the current one
percent in about 10 years, the reports said.


Japan also agreed to provide Kazakhstan with technological
assistance for processing uranium fuel and building light-water
reactors in exchange for uranium supplies.


Kazakhstan has the world's second-largest uranium reserves after
Australia, according to Japanese government data. The price of
uranium jumped 12 times from 2000 to 2007.


With the deals, Kazakhstan is expected to become one of the
biggest uranium suppliers to Japan in the future, rivaling
Australia and Canada whose current shares are 33 percent and 27
percent.


The trade minister was visiting Kazakhstan with top executives
from 29 Japanese companies.


They signed 24 business deals with Kazakh enterprises to help
ensure stable uranium supply to Japan over a long term and
facilitate civil nuclear technological transfer from Japan to
Kazakhstan.


Among the 24 deals, Marubeni Corp. acquired a stake in a uranium
mine in a deal with Kazakh state-run atomic company Kazatomprom.
Toshiba Corp. agreed with Kazatomprom to help build nuclear power
plants, Kyodo said.


In August last year, then Japanese prime minister Junichiro
Koizumi toured Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, where he offered aid
and discussed cooperation in the energy sector.


In Kazakhstan, Koizumi met with President Nursultan Nazarbayev,
who said that the emerging market of Kazakhstan and energy-
hungry, industrialised Japan "have complementary economies."


Koizumi was the first Japanese prime minister to visit Central
Asia.

