

Bangladesh's major political parties on Monday demanded early
elections, turning up the heat on the military-backed government
less than a week after it backtracked on plans to exile their
leaders.


Khaleda Zia, the last prime minister and the leader of Bangladesh
Nationalist Party (BNP), has "urged all the party leaders to help
hold free and fair elections quickly," her close aide, Osman
Faruq, said.


"She thinks the election should be held quickly," Faruq, also a
former education minister, told reporters on Monday.


Zia's main rival, Sheikh Hasina, who leads the main opposition
Awami League party, was also quoted as demanding early polls in a
series of interviews to newspapers and television channels from
her London residence.


"Without an elected government, there is no transparency and
accountability," she told Al-Jazeera television a week after she
was blocked from boarding a plane to Dhaka by the country's
interim authorities.


The interim government, which came to power in January after the
president cancelled polls and imposed a state of emergency, had
said early this month the polls would be held in late 2008.


The government has been trying to force both Zia and Sheikh
Hasina into exile as part of a crackdown on political corruption,
blaming both for years of misrule.


But on Wednesday the government lifted a ban on Hasina's return
from holiday and insisted there were no longer any pressure on
Zia, who had reportedly agreed to go into exile in Saudi Arabia,
to leave the country.


Sheikh Hasina now intends to return in the first week of May,
according to her spokesman. But Zia is planning to soon fly to
Saudi Arabia to perform a religious pilgrimage, her brother told
reporters.


While appearing to drop its exile plans for the two women, the
government  has brought murder and extortion charges against
Sheikh Hasina and has raised  the possibility of corruption
charges against both leaders.


Last week it told banks to supply details of the women's bank
accounts.


A minister of the interim cabinet was also quick to reject
demands for early polls, saying it would take at least 18 months
to complete reforms deemed necessary for free and fair elections.


"We understand the parties are now in a hurry to return to
power," said the minister, who asked not to be named.


"But the election commission told us that it would take at least
18 months to prepare the ground for fair elections," he added.

