

Another 49 cyclists are implicated in the Operation Puerto doping
affair which is threatening to cast an even darker cloud over the
sport ahead of the first two major stage races of the season.


According to Monday's Gazzetta dello Sport, a new 6000-page
dossier from the Spanish doping affair, which has already
ensnared Jan Ullrich and Ivan Basso, contains evidence which
implicates a new crop of suspected cheats.


'Operation Puerto' erupted in May 2006 when police uncovered an
alleged blood doping and doping network when they raided the
premises of a Madrid sports doctor Eufemiano Fuentes.


Police hundreds of small bags of blood, banned substances such as
EPO (erythropoietin), growth hormones and anabolic steroids, and
incriminating documents with alleged codenames and numbers for
Fuentes' 'clients'.


Some 200 athletes and 58 cyclists were reportedly implicated,
leading to the suspension of 13 riders - including Basso and
Ullrich - by their teams prior to last year's Tour de France.


Both Ullrich and Basso and many other riders implicated have
protested their innocence. So far, only Ullrich appears as guilty
following a recent DNA comparison test with blood found during
the raid.


Ullrich has since retired while Basso, who was initially cleared
by Italian authorities in the autumn, is to appear at a new
hearing scheduled by the Italian Olympic Committee's (CONI)
disciplinary commission this week.


The Italian sports daily did not reveal the identity of the 49
riders it believes are also part of the affair.


But Gazzetta's report said: "Until now we thought there was only
one dossier of 500 pages, but it appears the Spanish authorities
are ready to launch another investigation.


"This new dossier is supposedly 6000 pages long. It is said to
mention 49 riders, among whom are some of the biggest names in
the sport, adding to the 58 already implicated."


If would mean 107 cyclists have now been implicated in Operation
Puerto, leaving the sport's world ruling body, the International
Cycling Union (UCI), and major race organisers with a major
headache.


The UCI is battling to get to the bottom of the affair which
dragged on for most of last season, while the organisers of the
Giro d'Italia and the Tour de France are keen to prevent further
scandal on their races.


A recent DNA sample from Ullrich reportedly linked the 1997 Tour
de France winner to blood found in Fuentes' laboratory.


It led Tour de France director Christian Prudhomme to declare
last week: "The sport just cannot allow cyclists who are still
implicated in this affair to start the Tour de France if
suspicion still hangs over them."


Basso will be asked to provide a DNA sample, which could prove
his innocence, when he appears at the CONI hearing on May 2.


After being suspended by his team, Discovery Channel, last week,
it appears his chances of defending his Giro d'Italia crown in
the May 12-June 3 race are hanging by a thread.


Giro director Angelo Zomegnan said last week: "As it stands his
(Basso's) participation in the Giro d'Italia will be difficult."

