

Seven people have complained of nausea and other sickness while
watching the Oscar-nominated Hollywood movie "Babel" at two
theatres in Japan, theatre managers said Monday.


The cause of the sickness is believed to be a scene in which
Japanese actress Rinko Kikuchi, playing a high school girl,
dances in a club with flashing and swirling strobe lights for a
couple of minutes.


The scene left five women feeling sick at at the Midland Square
Cinema in the central Japan city of Nagoya on Saturday when the
movie made its debut across the country, theatre manager
Toshiyuki Ichiji told AFP by telephone.


On Sunday, a man also reported he felt similar symptoms while
watching the scene at the 200-seat theatre.


At another theatre in nearby Yokkaichi, the husband of a senior
couple needed time to rest and recover from sickness after
watching the movie.


"We are handing out a handbill advising customers not to focus on
the screen but to look away appropriately during the scene,"
Ichiji said, adding that the warning was also sometimes given
verbally before screening the movie.


Takashi Hattori, the manager of 109 Cinemas company in Yokkaichi,
said he was preparing to issue a similar health warning to
viewers.


The film, directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu and starring
Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett, is a complex tale about cultural
and emotional clashes in today's globalised world shot in several
countries and five languages.


It received seven Oscar nominations this year with Kikuchi,
relatively unknown at home, nominated for best supporting
actress.


The cinema sickness recalled an incident in December, 1997, in
which hundreds of children across Japan were taken to hospitals
with convulsions after watching a television cartoon based on
Nintendo's "Pocket Monsters."


The seizures were blamed on a scene depicting an explosion
followed by five seconds of flashing red lights from the
sparkling eyes of popular animated character "Pikachu."


At that time, some medical experts said bright flashes of light
and color from a television screen could cause symptoms similar
to epilepsy.

