

About 2,000 NATO-led and Afghan troops destroyed Taliban
positions in a push to flush out rebels from Afghanistan's
premier opium-producing province Monday, the military said.


The operation in the Sangin Valley came as the separate US-led
coalition announced troops had killed more than 150 Taliban and
foreign fighters in the district in the past three weeks.


About 1,000 NATO-led and Afghan troops took control of Sangin
district, in the southern province of Helmand, early April after
the Taliban claimed to occupy it for months.


"It's an operation to clear the Taliban from the lower Sangin
Valley," a spokesman for the British deployment to Afghanistan
told AFP of the new drive, codenamed Silicon.


Most of Britain's more than 5,000 troops with NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) are based in
Helmand -- a hotspot for Taliban activities.


"The operation is still ongoing, but it has already successfully
destroyed several positions used by the Taliban extremists to
launch harassing attacks," ISAF said.


It is "meant to stabilise the ongoing reconstruction and
development in Helmand province," it said.


The drive falls under Operation Achilles, ISAF's biggest campaign
against the Taliban, foreign fighters and drugs barons that
kicked off in Helmand nearly two months ago.


Achilles involves about 5,500 soldiers -- most of them from
Britain, Canada, the Netherlands and the United States and
including about 1,000 Afghans.


Sangin, 70 kilometres (40 miles) northeast of the provincial
capital Lashkar Gah, has seen regular clashes with Taliban
fighters said to have joined forces with drugs barons in Helmand.


The first Dutch soldier killed in Afghanistan died there April 20
when he stepped on a mine.


"Since arriving in the Sangin district centre 21 days ago, ANSF
(Afghan National Security Forces) and coalition forces have
killed more than 150 Taliban and foreign fighters operating in
the area," the coalition said in a statement late Sunday.


"We have effectively eliminated the bulk of the Taliban fighters
who had threatened the local Afghans living here," it said.


More than 1,000 people, the bulk of them Taliban militants, have
been killed in insurgency-linked violence across Afghanistan this
year. Scores of civilians have also lost their lives in the
unrest, which includes Iraq-style suicide bombings.


The Taliban, toppled in a US-led military attack, more than five
years ago have vowed to overthrow the US-backed government of
President Hamid Karzai which replaced their regime in 2001.


The new administration is supported by about 37,000 ISAF troops
as well as the coalition, which numbers about 14,000.


Helmand, through which runs the mighty Helmand River, produces
about 40 percent of the opium from Afghanistan, which supplies
more than 90 percent of the world's illegal supply.


It is also said to be home to some of the Taliban's leaders,
including Mullah Dadullah -- the extremist group's military
operations commander for the south.

