

Simmering tensions between Turkey's army and government spilled
over onto markets Monday as the nation awaited a ruling by the
country's top tribunal on the legitimacy of the presidential
election.


The day after hundreds of thousands of people staged a pro-
secular demonstration, the Istanbul stock market lost 8.0 percent
when it opened while the value of the Turkish lira also dropped
on international markets.


"We are carefully watching market developments," Minister of
State for the Economy Abdullatif Sener said, but added: "The
economic system is strong." The stock market regained some ground
in later trading.


Markets have been put on edge by an army warning to the Islamist-
rooted government and Sunday's demonstration. Tensions appear to
have been put on hold while attention focuses on the tribunal
hearing.


Tulay Tugcu, president of the Constitutional Court, said she
hoped for a ruling on Friday's contested first-round vote before
the second round is held on Wednesday.


If the court's 11 judges rule in favor of the plaintiff, the main
opposition Republican People's Party (CHP), the election will be
annulled and early elections will be called in 45 to 90 days.


The CHP based its complaint on a technicality, saying the
550-member parliament should have had a quorum of 367 to open the
session for a presidential election -- the number of votes
required for a candidate to be elected in the first round.


Assembly speaker Bulent Arinc, from the governing Islamist-rooted
Justice and Development Party (AKP) -- which is fielding the sole
candidate for the presidency, Foreign Ministr Abdullah Gul --
said a quorum of 184 would suffice, as it does for any other
parliamentary session.


The aim of the CHP was to force early elections.


The opposition and an overwhelming section of the media, non-
government organisations and pressure groups -- including the
powerful TUSIAD business association -- say early elections are
the only way to stop Turkey plunging into chaos.


The opposition and many secularist Turks believe Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan's AKP, born out of the now-banned Islamist
party, is seeking to erode Muslim-majority Turkey's fiercely
guarded secular system, despite the AKP's objections that it is
now simply a conservative, non-religious party.


Up to 1.5 million people demonstrated peacefully against the AKP
and in favour of secularism in Ankara on April 14 and more than
one million did the same in Istanbul on Sunday.


The CHP filed a motion with the Consitutional Court immediately
after the first round of voting, in which Gul fell 10 votes short
of victory.


Hours later, the military's General Staff issued a stiff warning
to the government, saying it was not doing enough to protect
secular values and threatening army action to do so itself.


As the memory of four past military interventions in Turkey
loomed large, the government responded in words just as strong,
calling the military to order.


In the middle of the tense stand-off, as more than one million
flag-waving, slogan-chanting Turks marched in Istanbul, Gul said
Sunday that he would not withdraw his candidacy under any
circumstances.


He said his bid for the presidency was "not a decision taken
overnight" but the result of lengthy negotiations.


"We all need to wait for the decision of the Constitutional
Court," Gul said. "The court will undoubtedly make the best
evaluation and reach the right decision."


If the court rules against the CHP, the second round of voting on
Wednesday is likely to be inconclusive again.


But Gul is certain to be elected in the third round on May 9,
when the required number of votes will drop to a simple majority
of 276; he obtained 357 votes in the first round, 352 of them
from his own party.

