

England's Dan Wheldon cruised to victory in the IndyCar Series
Kansas Lottery Indy 300 Sunday and immediately set his sights on
next month's Indy 500.


Wheldon led 177 of the 200 laps and finished with a comfortable
victory over Scotland's Dario Franchitti.


"We have a big race coming up next month at Indianapolis and
that's the one I really want to win," said Wheldon, who won the
2005 Indy 500. "I want to taste the milk again."


Wheldon became the first two-time winner of 2007 after his
victory in the season-opening race in Homestead, Florida, last
month.


"I told Dan today we want to go into Indianpaolis solidly in
points and the other teams know we can be competitive there,"
team owner Chip Ganassi said. "This is definitely a momentum
booster for us."


Brazil's Helio Castroneves was third, followed by New Zealand's
Scott Dixon and South African Tomas Scheckter.


The race ended under caution after Jeff Simmons crashed with
three laps to go. Only four drivers were on the lead lap.


"It was fortunately a different race at Kansas," Wheldon said.
"Kansas is normally a producer of very close finishes. I have to
say I much prefer having the widest margin of a Kansas race than
the shortest because I've lost on the shortest before."


In 2005, Wheldon lost to Tony Kanaan here by 0.0120 seconds. Last
year, he lost to Sam Hornish by 0.0793 seconds.


Wheldon now leads the standings with 171 points to Dixon's 144
heading into Indianapolis.


There were nine lead changes among three drivers with pole-sitter
Kanaan leading the first six laps before Wheldon passed him on
the outside at the start-finish line.


Kanaan's challenge ended when he was involved in a pit-lane foul-
up with Andretti Green Racing teammate Danica Patrick on lap 49.


She had just pitted and was told by both Kim Green and chief
mechanic Dave Popielarz to leave her pit area. As she pulled out,
Kanaan was entering her pit and the two AGR cars collided.


Patrick's car was not damaged and she was able to drive to a
seventh-place finish. Kanaan's front suspension had to be
repaired and he returned eight laps down. He finished 15th but
was very upset at the episode that cost him the race.


Milka Duno of Venezuela made her first career IndyCar start and
finished 14th.

