

Venezuela's World Boxing Association super featherweight champion
Edwin Valero is favoured to remain undefeated when he takes on
Japanese challenger Nobuhito Honmo this week.


It will be one of three world title matches taking place here
Thursday with Japanese champions Hozumi Hasegawa and Nobuo
Nashiro also defending their crowns.


The 25-year-old Valero, the defending champion, has won 21 out of
21 bouts, all of them knockout victories, including a world
record of 18 consecutive first- round wins.


His streak ended in March last year when he needed two rounds to
pull off a technical knockout (TKO) in his 19th bout.


In August 2006 he snatched the WBA title from Vicente Mosquera of
Panama.


In January this year, Valero got back to his old habits by
knocking out Michael Lozada of Mexico in only 72 seconds in his
first defence of the title.


"I'm determined to keep hitting punches until Honmo gives up or a
towel is thrown. I have a thundering left. I can pulverise his
guard with this punch," said Valero.


"I'm going to give my fans the best gift by showing an exciting
fight. I'm not going to give the champion's belt to him," vowed
the Tokyo-based Venezuelan.


Honmo, second in the WBA rankings, has 29 wins, including five
KOs, against four defeats and two draws. He vowed that he would
hang up his gloves if he loses.


"I'm going to retire if I lose this fight, for sure," said Honmo,
30. "Every boxer feels terrified when he fights. He (Valero) is a
tough fighter, but I feel like I can give him a good scare."


His trainer, Yoshitami Tanaka, acknowledged Honmo had a tough
task. He estimated his chance of winning at "maybe about the same
as the consumption tax" -- or five percent.


"But Valero is human. We have five patterns of tactics," Tanaka
said.


Hasegawa takes on Simpiwe Vetyeka of South Africa in a World
Boxing Council bantamweight bout, while Nashiro fights former
champion Alexander Munoz of Venezuela in the WBA super flyweight
division.


"He (Vetyeka) is skilful. I think it's a bit difficult to beat
him. But I'm known as a skilful boxer as well. I'm really looking
forward to proving I'm more skilful," said Hasegawa, 26.


"I must say, if you cannot beat a boxer of his level, you cannot
fight a match in the United States," he added.


Fifth-ranked Vetyeka said: "I'm ready to fight 24 rounds.
Hasegawa is not enough. I don't need to guard against him. My
goal is to become an unbeaten world champion."


Hasegawa has 21 wins, including seven KOs, against two defeats,
while Vetyeka has an unbeaten record of 16 wins with nine KOs.


Nashiro, 25, is also unbeaten, with nine wins and five KOs,
against Munoz's 29 wins -- 27 of them inside the distance -- and
two defeats.

