

Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has warned Jose Mourinho that his
side are out to kill off Chelsea's fading hopes of retaining the
Premiership.


Mourinho's team will have to win at the Emirates Stadium next
weekend to have any hope of overhauling leaders Manchester
United.


The Gunners have little to play for as they have already secured
the top four finish that guarantees entry into next season's
Champions League, so Mourinho may have thought he could take
advantage of under-motivated opponents in north London.


But, speaking after his side's dramatic 3-1 win over relegation-
threatened Fulham on Sunday, Wenger insisted there was no chance
of Arsenal taking it easy.


"We have a responsibility to the rest of the league," he said.
"We have to be fair to the other teams at the bottom. If we were
fighting not to go down I wouldn't like to see a team go to
Manchester United and take points because they don't care.


"Next week we have the same responsibility at the top. It is a
bit more exciting and we will go for it a bit more.


"There will be more at stake, prestige-wise. It is a good game to
play because it is a good opportunity to show we are strong for
next season and able to fight with Chelsea and Manchester United,
who are quite ahead of us this season."


Wenger knows Arsenal will have to be far more alert than they
were against Fulham, who were unlucky not to snatch a crucial
point after a stirring second half fightback.


Julio Baptista had given Arsenal a fourth minute lead when he
headed in Emmanuel Adebayor's cross. Arsenal then reverted to
type as they squandered a series of chances to kill off the
visitors and were made to pay in the 78th minute.


Jens Lehmann made a complete hash of his punch as he challenged
Heidar Helguson for a deep cross and the ball fell to Simon
Daives, who looped his shot over Kolo Toure and into the net.


Lawrie Sanchez's side were just six minutes away from a draw that
would have boosted their survival bid, but Adebayor broke their
hearts when he surged onto Cesc Fabregas's pass and curled a
superb shot past Antti Niemi.


Gilberto Silva rubbed salt into their wounds when he coverted an
87th minute penalty after Moritz Volz had brought down Alexander
Hleb.


Wenger is keen to appoint an English director of football to help
him with transfers following the departure of vice-chairman David
Dein and he admitted he has already been inundated with
applications.


"I am not in a hurry to do it but I will meet a few people and
make a decision in the summer," he said. "I have had more
applications than you can imagine."


Fulham face a nervous finale as they try to scrape the points
they need to beat the drop in their final two matches against
Liverpool and Middlesbrough.


They are just a point above the relegation zone and look to be in
free fall after going 10 matches without a win, but Sanchez still
believes they can get out of trouble.


"We can still determine what we do," said Sanchez. "The minute it
is out of our hands we are in trouble.


"Every point at this moment is precious but I think one win will
probably do it. It is a matter of whether we can get that win.


"You could explode your head thinking about the permations. We
are in a very lucky situation. Our destiny is in our own hands
unlike West Ham and Charlton.


"Everybody down the bottom is nervous. Anybody who tells you
otherwise is not telling the truth. So much rides on it. Not so
much for the players, but for the club and the staff and fans.


"But that is the situation we find ourselves in and it is my job
to show them a way they can get themselves out of it. Then we can
look back and say we got out of it.


"We had three good goalscoring efforts after the equaliser. The
thought was lets put the season to bed this afternoon because
it's not often you have Arsenal by the jugular but we got
undone."

