

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and his Latin American allies
wrapped up their summit here late Sunday with promises of closer
economic integration after Venezuela offered its leftist friends
guarantees of cheap energy supplies.


Chavez and his guests, Presidents Evo Morales of Bolivia and
Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua as well as Cuban Vice President Carlos
Lage, signed a series of agreements creating three new joint
cooperation councils designed to strengthen cooperation within
the Bolivarian Alternative for the People of the Americas.


They also agreed to broaden cooperation in the energy sector and
dedicate more time to development of alternative sources of
energy.


The agreements came after Chavez offered to sell his allies oil
at a discount of 50 percent, a price break that he said would
help their economic and social development.


"In the past, oil contributed to the development of the United
States," the Venezuelan leader said. "Now it is time to make oil
serve the development of our people. Venezuela is putting its oil
reserves at the service of Latin America."


A leading member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, Venezuela planned to produce this year about three
million barrels of crude a day. Half of this amount is being sold
to the United States.


Venezuela is already selling oil to Caribbean countries at a 40
percent discount.


A fierce critic of the United States, Chavez has been trying to
forge anti-US alliances throughout Latin America and the world at
large, taking aim in particular at US plans to create a free
trade zone in the Americas.


World crude prices surged Friday amid reports of new arrests in
Saudi Arabia of alleged militants plotting airborne attacks on
oil facilities and army bases.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, rose 1.40 dollars to close at 66.46 dollars a
barrel.


The Barquisimeto summit of the Bolivarian Alternative for the
People of the Americas was billed as a new bid to bolster their
"anti-imperialist" alliance.


Also taking part in the talks as observers were Haitian President
Rene Preval and Ecuadoran Foreign Minister Maria Fernanda
Espinosa.


According to Chavez, Haiti will also be eligible for the
50-percent discount.


In his speech, Ortega vowed to spare no effort to "put an end to
imperialist and capitalist domination" in the region.


Lage, for his part, emphasized the importance of political
integration over joint economic projects.


"We seek integration among our people rather than among our
markets," the Cuban official said.


Morales blasted US plans to unite all countries of the Western
Hemisphere in a free trade zone, calling instead for "fair trade
that allows countries to solve their economic problems."


The Bolivarian Alternative was launched in 2004 by Cuba and
Venezuela. Bolivia joined it last year and Nicaragua in January.


In addition to trade, members are focusing on development,
education and health projects.


"The Free Trade Area of the Americas is dead," Chavez told his
guests, referring to the US-backed project. "Meanwhile, the
Bolivarian Alternative has consolidated and will continue to
grow."


Chavez also revealed that he had received a letter from Fidel
Castro, in which the ailing Cuban leader had praised China's
"market socialism" and predicted that this approach will make
China the 21st century's superpower.


"The socialism of the 21st century must adapt to conditions of
the 21st century," Chavez said of Castro's nine-page letter.

