

China's "Golden Week" holidays have turned into logistical
nightmares as millions of people take off at the same time --
leading to calls for change from a growing number of economists.


Abolishing the holidays might be politically unfeasible but
staggering them and allowing people to go away on vacation at
different times of the year could be possible, they say.


"Golden Weeks have both positive and negative effects," said Ning
Xiangdong, an economist from Beijing's Tsinghua University.


"People go travelling all over China, and that's great for the
economy, but it also creates traffic problems, and the facilities
are not geared to handling so many tourists," he said.


This year, a total of 150 million Chinese are expected to get on
trains, buses and planes, as they use the opportunity of seven
days off work, beginning Tuesday, to escape the daily grind.


That is exactly what the government envisaged when, out of the
blue, it introduced three week-long holidays in 1999 -- May Day,
the October 1 National Day, and the Spring Festival, which falls
in January or February every year.


It happened at a time when China was reeling from the Asian
financial crisis and desperately needed more growth, leading to
one of the world's most liberal holiday regimes almost overnight.


Now, after four consecutive years of double-digit growth, the
economic rationale is felt much less keenly, but the negative
side effects of vacationing en masse are as obvious as ever.


Trains are so crowded they look like Guinness record attempts,
the average Beijing or Shanghai park is a seething sea of people,
and even no-star hotels are fully booked.


This makes it difficult for the individual holiday-making family,
but for the policy makers there are even more compelling reasons
to start thinking about alternatives.


Although official statistics claim that past Golden Weeks have
contributed altogether 670 billion yuan (87 billion dollars) to
the economy, analysts argue the holidays are of declining value.


"If you look at the contribution of the Golden Weeks to the
economy, the effect is approaching zero," said Hu Xingdou, a
professor of economics at the Beijing Institute of Technology.


Deputies from the national legislature proposed changes to the
holidays when they gathered for their annual full meeting in
March.


They called for shortened Labour Day (May Day) and National Day
holidays, and the addition of traditional festivals such as the
Tomb Sweeping Day in early April.


But reducing the holidays, let alone abolishing them, would not
be a popular decision, economists said.


According to Zhang Jun, an economist at Shanghai's Fudan
University, the three Golden Weeks are rapidly becoming an
ingrained part of the local culture.


"Initially, the Golden Week holidays were introduced in order to
create more economic growth, but boosting the economy is no
longer an important reason for keeping them," he said.


As a compromise solution, the government is now actively
considering a new system of staggered holidays, according to
economists, who are often the first to know because their advice
is sought ahead of major policy decisions.


"The cabinet is considering staggering the Golden Week holidays
and letting people choose themselves when to have them," said He
Jianmin, a tourism expert at the Shanghai University of Finance
and Economics.


"The number of days off will remain the same, but it's preferable
to allow people to make their own choice."


The average Chinese now seems tired enough of the holiday crowds
to support reform.


A poll of 40,000 people conducted by popular Internet portal
sohu.com in December showed that 65 percent were in favour of
replacing the current system with something else.


Some analysts argued, however, that if the welfare of China's
workers were really a priority, there were other measures that
the government might consider taking.


"I think the government should boost the salaries of the
workforce, and improve social security," said Hu of the Beijing
Institute of Technology.


"Genuinely protecting the interests of the workers is better than
promoting the 'Golden Weeks.'"

