

Israel braced on Monday for the first official report on last
year's war against Hezbollah, due to harshly criticise Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert but stop short of calling for him to resign.


Retired judge Eliahu Winograd, who heads the government
commission investigating the failures of the 34-day war, is due
to present the interim findings at a 1400 GMT press conference.


With the report not expected to recommend that Olmert resign --
and with the premier ruling out such a move without an explicit
ruling from the commission -- observers say that his fate will be
decided by the public's reaction to the findings.


"Will the interim report serve to fuel the protest movements that
have failed to date? Will the fire of protest be strong enough to
draw tens of thousands of Israelis to the city squares to demand
that Olmert resign?" wrote the mass- selling Yediot Aharonot.


Weakened by the criticism of the Hezbollah war and a string of
corruption scandals implicating him and senior members of his
government, Olmert's ratings have sunk to unprecedented lows --
only two percent of Israelis trust him, according to polls.


But with a 78-member coalition in the 120-seat parliament and a
strong economy, the premier known for his political survival
skills has room to manoeuvre, commentators here say.


"Olmert's advisers believe that the prime minister's condition is
'between critical and terminal,'" Yediot wrote.


"We have to wait either until the final report or for public
sentiment," the second-largest daily Maariv quoted a member of
Olmert's Kadima party as saying.


According to leaks in the Israeli media, Monday's report is
expected to denounce the "precipitous and unwise" manner in which
the premier decided to start a war after Hezbollah launched a
deadly cross-border attack on July 12 and seized two Israeli
soldiers.


It will also deplore the fact that Olmert relied too much on army
advice, and that he and his government acted as a rubber stamp
for military decisions, the reports said.


Defence Minister Amir Peretz and former army chief of staff Dan
Halutz, who became the most senior head to roll over the war when
he resigned in January, are also expected to be roasted by the
findings.


Peretz failed to grasp that his "complete lack of military
experience" could be disastrous and simply followed the
recommendations of the military, while Halutz stifled dissenting
views on how to wage the war and underestimated the threat from
rockets fired by Hezbollah into Israel.


The conflict, which ended with a UN-brokered ceasefire on August
14, is widely regarded as a failure in Israel because it did not
return the two captured servicemen or stop rocket fire that sent
a million Israelis fleeing from the north.


Army reservists blasted preparations that left some units without
the necessary equipment and supplies, while residents of northern
Israel criticised the state for not providing them with the
necessary support.


The war killed more than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and
more than 160 Israelis, mostly soldiers, according to government
figures.


The partial report will span the period from Israel's withdrawal
from Lebanon in 2000 until last July 17, five days after the
deadly Hezbollah raid. A full report on the entire war is due to
be released by the end of the year.

