

Human rights groups backed Monday an Indonesian police probe into
the 2004 murder of a rights activist, hopeful it will reveal that
the nation's intelligence agency was behind the killing.


Local groups said they were "cautiously optimistic" after police
made several arrests over the murder and revealed late last week
they were interviewing fresh witnesses.


The backing is a turnaround for rights groups who have been
scathing of police efforts since leading rights campaigner Munir
Said Thalib died on a Garuda flight to Amsterdam after his drink
was laced with arsenic.


Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has come under
pressure to reopen the investigation after the only person
charged over the murder, Garuda pilot Pollycarpus Priyanto, had
his conviction quashed by the Supreme Court late last year.


The ruling prompted an outcry from the groups and Munir's widow,
already concerned about a cover-up because of links to
intelligence agency BIN.


But Rafendi Djamin, coordinator of Indonesian Human Rights Watch
Group, said the probe, reopened in January, was headed by one of
Indonesia's chief detectives and was finally getting results.


"In the first investigation, BIN's involvement was not deeply
looked at. But the current probe, with the arrest of the Garuda
executives -- I see that it could lead to the masterminds, to
those who gave the orders," Djamin said.


"They are the key witnesses to disclose BIN's involvement," he
told AFP.


Earlier this month, police arrested the former head of Garuda and
an ex-company secretary for questioning over alleged
falsification of documents allowing an off-duty Priyanto to
travel at the last minute on Munir's flight.


Police have also discovered that Munir was poisoned during a
stopover at Singapore's Changi airport, rather than during the
flight as originally thought.


Local media have reported police were questioning an Indonesian
singer with alleged links to BIN over a meeting with Munir and
Priyanto at Changi.


Activist Asmara Nababan said international pressure -- mainly
from the United States and European Union -- had prompted
authorities to act.


"We see seriousness from the police, so now we see progress, even
though not much. Especially with the finding of new evidence,
that makes it possible to request a judicial review of the
Supreme Court's decision that freed Pollycarpus," Nababan said.


Nababan was deputy head of an independent fact-finding team
appointed by Yudhoyono in December 2004 to sniff out the murderer
and masterminds.


He said much of the information that it discovered, including
concerns about BIN involvement, was never acted on and its report
never publicly released.


Munir, who was 38 when he died, had made numerous powerful
enemies through his work during and after the rule of dictator
Suharto, which ended in 1998, exposing rights abuses including in
Papua and East Timor.

