

Growth in the eurozone money supply, as measured by the broad
indicator M3, rose more than expected in March, data showed
Monday, bolstering expectations for a further rise in interest
rates.


M3 growth stood at 10.9 percent on an annualised basis in March,
up from 10.0 percent in February, the European Central Bank said
in a statement.


M3 covers cash, overnight deposits, other short-term deposits,
repurchase agreements, shares and units in money market funds and
debt securities with a maturity of up to two years and is the
ECB's preferred indicator of medium-term inflationary trends in
the eurozone economy.


Analysts polled by financial news agency Thomson Financial had
predicted a 9.8-percent rise in March.


It was the fastest pace of growth for the M3 since February 1983.


Because the monthly figures are subject to volatility, the ECB
also calculates a three-month moving average for M3 growth, which
accelerated to 10.3 percent in the period from January to March
from 9.9 percent in the period from December to February, the ECB
said.


Analysts had also foreseen the three-month figure to rise to 9.8
percent.


The ECB is expected to approve an increase in its benchmark
interest rate in June to 4.0 percent from 3.75 percent.


The move would likely to make the euro more attractive to
investors, thereby increasing its value and unsettling certain
eurozone governments that fear an appreciating euro will harm
growth prospects.


IXIS economist Sylvain Broyer said the M3 growth clearly pointed
to an interest- rate hike in June and at least one more this
year.


"Given past behaviour of central bank governors, it is likely
that in the eyes of the board, the euro appreciation is still not
strong enough to offset the risks on price stability emanating
from monetary and economic growth," he said.


An analyst with Commerzbank, Michael Schubert, noted that the M3
components that grew most markedly were those that became most
attractive with interest rate hikes by the ECB.


"The monetary development continues to point to upward pressure
on price stability in the view of the ECB," he said in a
statement.


"We predict two further interest rate hikes, in June and
September."

