

Sydney may be Australia's biggest and most famous city, but it
shouldn't have to host an APEC summit of international leaders
later this year, a state minister said Monday.


New South Wales state's Deputy Premier John Watkins said the
harbour city would gain little from allowing some of the world's
most powerful people to come here for the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) summit in September.


"I would have much preferred if the invitation had been offered
by Canberra and these world leaders were in our national capital,
not here in Sydney," Watkins said.


"This is an event that will bring disruption to the daily lives
of hundreds of thousands of Sydneysiders, with very little
benefit to them."


Watkins, also the state's transport minister, said while he
supported Australia holding the APEC leaders' summit, it would
provide "nothing tangible to the good people of Sydney and the
business community of Sydney."


His comments were attacked by Prime Minister John Howard as
small-minded.


"This will be the most prestigious gathering of world leaders
ever in Australia, and is the New South Wales government saying
that Australia's biggest and most international city can't handle
that?


"I am just astounded at the small-minded, provincial attitude
being taken by the New South Wales government," Howard said.


The prime minister acknowledged the summit would cause disruption
for Sydney.


But he said it would also bring hundreds of millions of dollars
to the New South Wales economy and "untold benefits in prestige
to the entire nation, and very particularly to Sydney."


The summit will bring the leaders of APEC's 21 members, including
US President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin,
to Sydney's shores between September 7 and 9.


The state government has declared September 7 a public holiday
for the Sydney metropolitan area.


But there has been frustration within the Sydney business
community, which has complained that they have been kept in the
dark about road and rail closures and security lock-downs to be
in force during the conference.

