

Here are the key proposals of the rightwing Nicolas Sarkozy and
the Socialist Segolene Royal, who are to come face-to-face in a
television debate on Wednesday.


-- JOBS AND WAGES --


Both candidates are under pressure to fight unemployment -- at
8.4 percent among the highest in Europe -- and boost low incomes.


Sarkozy's flagship measure is to scrap payroll tax and social
charges on overtime pay, so as to circumvent the 35-hour working
week that was brought in by a Socialist government. People who
turn down work could lose their unemployment benefits under his
plans.


Royal proposes lifting the minimum monthly wage from 1,250 euros
to 1,500 euros (1,900 dollars). She would create 500,000 state-
backed "stepping stone" jobs for youths, seniors and long-term
unemployed.


Both claim their measures would have a knock-on effect on job
creation by boosting consumer spending.


-- ECONOMY AND TAX --


Sarkozy would set a ceiling of 50 percent on personal taxation
and hopes in the long term to cut overall tax by four percentage
points of gross domestic product. He would replace only one in
two retirees from the civil service -- whose five million
employees account for almost half the state budget.


Royal would cancel tax breaks for the highest earners and tax
companies that pay share dividends instead of investing profits.
On state spending, her motto is "every euro spent must be a euro
well spent."


-- IMMIGRATION --


Both Sarkozy and Royal rule out a blanket amnesty for France's
estimated 200,000 to 400,000 illegal immigrants and pledge to
boost development aid.


Sarkozy would create a ministry for immigration and national
identity to implement skills-based selection for legal migrants,
tougher rules of entry for their families and deportation for
illegals.


Royal would create a multiple-entry visa for migrant workers and
restore the right -- scrapped under Sarkozy -- for illegals to
acquire French citizenship after 10 years.


-- THE SUBURBS --


Royal promises major drives to reimplant public services in the
poor, high- immigration suburbs across the country hit by
widescale riots in 2005.


She wants to create a civic national service for school-leavers,
to replace the obligatory military service abolished 10 years
ago.


On crime, Royal would reintroduce community policing, introduce
military-style boot camps for young offenders and ban prison
sentences for minors -- which Sarkozy wants to extend.


Sarkozy, the son of a Hungarian immigrant father, is calling for
a "Marshall Plan" for the suburbs that would include jobs and
programmes to combat "idleness."


-- EUROPE --


Sarkozy wants a scaled-down mini-treaty, ratified by European
parliaments, to replace the draft European constitution rejected
by French voters in 2005.


Royal wants to call a new referendum after amending the existing
treaty to add a stronger social component.


Royal says the European Central Bank should broaden its focus to
boosting growth and jobs, and both she and Sarkozy say the bank
should do more to drive down the euro, currently hovering around
record levels against the dollar.


-- INSTITUTIONS --


Royal calls for the advent of a "Sixth Republic," overhauling
government institutions to make them more accountable to the
public.


She would have citizen's juries assess the work of elected
officials from the president down, and would end the government's
right to push laws through parliament by decree.


Sarkozy wants to keep the current institutions, but make the
president more accountable to a stronger parliament, and limit
the number of ministers to 15.


-- ENVIRONMENT --


The two candidates have pledged to put the environment at the
centre of their presidency.


Royal wants to boost the share of renewable energies and cut back
on nuclear power, phase out VAT on eco-friendly industries and
stop field trials of genetically-modified crops.


Sarkozy wants to slash VAT on green products and services and
backs the creation of a world environment agency.


Sarkozy wants to maintain nuclear power at its current level.


-- GAY RIGHTS, EUTHANASIA --


Royal says she will legalise gay marriage and adoption. Sarkozy
is against this, supporting the current system of civil unions.


Royal -- whose party wants to legalise medical euthanasia -- has
called for a national debate on the question. Sarkozy says the
current law, which allows doctors to stop treating terminally-ill
patients, goes far enough.

