

A top US congressional Democrat has raised the possibility of
George W. Bush's impeachment in a bid to force the president to
accept a compromise that would place conditions on continued US
military involvement in Iraq.


Representative John Murtha, who chairs the House Subcommittee on
Defense and is close to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, made the
comment Sunday in response to repeated threats by the president
to veto legislation that calls for withdrawal of US troops from
Iraq by the end of next March.


"There's three ways or four ways to influence a president,"
Murtha said on CBS's "Face the Nation" program. "One is popular
opinion, the election, third is impeachment and fourth is the
purse."


Asked specifically if Democrats, who now control the US Congress,
were seriously contemplating the impeachment option, the
congressman responded: "What I'm saying, there's four ways to
influence a president ... And one of them's impeachment."


Some of the fiercest critics of President Bush have long charged
he has illegally manipulated intelligence to accuse the Iraqi
government of late president Saddam Hussein of secretly
stockpiling weapons of mass destruction, thereby creating a
pretext for the March 2003 invasion of Iraq.


No weapons of mass destruction have been found in Iraq since the
invasion but the White House has strongly denied the intelligence
manipulation charge.


The impeachment threat is being dangled as the White House and
congressional Democrats face a new showdown over Iraq policy in
coming weeks.


A 124-billion-dollar war funding bill passed by the House of
Representatives Wednesday and the Senate on Thursday established
a non-binding target of completing a US combat troop pullout from
Iraq by March 31, 2008.


The measure is expected to land on the president's desk on
Tuesday, the fourth anniversary of his now much ridiculed
"Mission Accomplished" speech, in which he, standing on the deck
of an aircraft carrier off the coast of California, declared an
end to major combat operations in Iraq.


As promised, Bush will wield his veto pen, and Democrats
acknowledge they lack the votes to override his decision.


But they have made it clear that while the withdrawal deadline
will most likely be dropped, they still would like to come up
with a bill that would place limits and conditions on future US
operations in Iraq.


One of the proposals, according to Murtha, calls for making the
continued US military presence in Iraq contingent on the Iraqi
government meeting specific political benchmarks designed to stem
violence.


They include showing progress in reaching power-sharing
arrangement that would bolster the role of Sunnis in the Iraqi
government, an agreement to equitable distribution of oil wealth,
and a crackdown on militias.


Murtha also suggested limiting the life of a revised war-funding
bill from one year to just two months to allow for an earlier
congressional review of the situation.


"I'd like to look at this again in two months," he said.


But the administration was quick to shoot down the idea of any
restrictions on White House Iraq policy.


"To begin now to tie our own hands and to say 'We must do this if
they don't do that' doesn't allow us the flexibility and
creativity that we need to move this forward," Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice said on the same show.


She warned that benchmarks written into US law "might give
incentives to the wrong people".


A veteran of the US Marine Corps, Murtha touched off a firestorm
in Washington in November 2005 when he called for redeployment of
US troops from Iraq.

