

Silvia Cavalleri denied Lorena Ochoa her chance to celebrate her
new world No. 1 status with a victory Sunday, the Italian
capturing her own first LPGA title at the Corona Championship.


Italy's Cavalleri shot a 7-under-par 66 to win the 1.3 million-
dollar tournament by two shots over Ochoa and Julieta Granada.


The three had shared the lead heading into the final round.


Cavalleri had seven birdies in her bogey-free round on the Tres
Marias course, finishing with a 20-under total of 272.


"I feel great, obviously. It's about a dream coming true after
all these years, knowing I could do it," Cavalleri said. "I've
been there a few times and been in the last group for the final
round.


"I've been there a few times and to finally get to make my first
win was huge."


In six starts this season, Cavalleri's best finish was a tie for
26th at last month's Safeway International.


She had missed two cuts and failed to break the top 50 in her
three other events.


The native of Milan shot in the 60s in all four rounds after
registering just one round under 70 for the entire year.


"Everything was really smooth. I didn't hit the ball really well
the first six holes, so my putting got me through it," Cavalleri
said. "I just tried to make as many pars as I could and, if I had
an opportunity to make birdie, I tried to make them.


"Obviously I putted really well this week, so that was the key to
my game and, the 20-under, you have to make a lot of birdies."


Playing in her home country, Ochoa was hoping to cap a big week.
The reigning Player of the Year took over the top spot in the
world rankings on Monday with 12.84 points, 0.14 ahead of
longtime world No. 1 Annika Sorenstam, who is sidelined with a
back injury.


She was also hoping to make her first successful title defense.


Following up her blazing 64 on Saturday, Ochoa also had a bogey-
free round with a 5-under 68 to finish at 274 - not quite enough
to keep pace with Cavalleri.


"I am happy," Ochoa said. "It was a nice weekend and I will keep
many fond memories. I think Silvia definitely deserves the
tournament."


But Ochoa kept up her efforts until the end. She reached the
506-yard par-5 18th hole in two, but her a 50-foot putt for eagle
and a chance to tie Cavalleri was off by two feet.


"I knew I had to take the risk," Ochoa said. "It was a good
decision. It gave me the chance to score a good eagle."


Paraguay's Granada overcame a bogey on the first hole with six
birdies to tie Ochoa with a 68 for 274. She matched her best
finish of 2007, a runner-up finish to Paula Creamer in the SBS
Open in Hawaii in February.


She wasn't as satisfied with second as Ochoa.


"I hate runner-ups, really," said Granada, who was runner-up here
last year.

