

Philippine President Gloria Arroyo ordered the military Monday to
help police maintain order amid escalating violence in the run up
to May's mid-term elections.


She made the announcement hours after the mayor of the northern
city of San Carlos, Julian Resuello, died after being shot in the
latest incident of political bloodshed that has marred the run-up
to the polls.


One of his aides died instantly and seven others were also
wounded in Saturday's attack. The mayor of Morong near Manila
survived a separate attack when gunmen sprayed his house with
automatic weapons fire.


"I am calling on the armed forces to reinforce the police, under
(election commission) authority, to stop election violence and
move forcefully against those using threats and intimidation for
partisan politics," Arroyo said.


"All identified private armies must be pre-empted and
dismantled."


The Philippines goes to the polls on May 14 to elect 12 senators,
the entire 230-seat House of Representatives and thousands of
local officials from town councils to mayors and provincial
governors.


But elections here are often marred by violence, with rival
politicians, especially in the provinces, maintaining armed
groups -- effectively private militias -- to intimidate or harass
opponents.


On Thursday, a town council candidate and a policeman were killed
in an ambush by suspected political rivals in the town of Jaen in
northern Nueva Ecija province.


Seventeen others were wounded, including three policemen, leading
the election commission to place the province under its security
watch to prevent further bloodshed.


Resuello's son said prior to the attack his father had received
threats from a political rival he declined to identify.


The elder Resuello was shot by two men who posed as his
supporters as he made his way through a crowd. Police said they
recovered several slugs from handguns used in the attack.


"The plaza was fully packed when this happened. I do believe this
is politically motivated," Julier Resuello said.


"A lot of his constituents are mourning his death. The fight will
continue."


Manila's army chief Major General Benjamin Dolorfino said troops
were focused on continuing "internal security operations" but
were prepared to help poll officials in maintaining peace.


In the 2004 presidential elections, 148 deaths were recorded and
111 deaths were linked to the 2001 mid-term polls.


So far 25 people have been killed in this election season.


National police chief Oscar Calderon said at the weekend that 52
of 90 known private armies controlled by politicians nationwide
had been dismantled and that some 2,000 people illegally carrying
guns were arrested.

