

Jose Mourinho has warned Valencia that Chelsea are ready to raise
their game to a higher level when they clash in the Champions
League quarter-finals.


Mourinho's side are unbeaten in their last 15 matches and have
won seven successive games in the Premiership. But the Blues
manager believes his players can hit even greater heights now
they are free to concentrate solely on club football.


Chelsea were unusually subdued for long periods in Saturday's
last gasp 1-0 win at Watford and Mourinho puts that down to his
squad being drained by two weeks away on international duty.


Mourinho is relieved he can now focus his players on their bid to
win the quadruple and he expects a much higher tempo and
intensity to Chelsea's performance when Valencia visit Stamford
Bridge on Wednesday for the first leg of their last eight tie.


"I do not want to excuse it because I always feel we have
something inside of us, something hidden, that we can give, that
extra bit," Mourinho told Chelsea TV.


"At the training ground in Cobham, you saw I was there doing
nothing (during the international break). I was there playing
five against five, with the medical department and my people and
that is not good.


"You cannot prepare your team when the players come and are
tired, with no focus and no concentration."


Mourinho's future remains a source of conjecture after owner
Roman Abramovich once again opted not to join the manager and his
players in the changing rooms after the win at Watford.


If Mourinho is to repair his fractured relationship with
Abramovich, then the Champions League trophy would be an ideal
peace offering.


Mourinho's belief that his team can do just that will have been
boosted by Joe Cole's earlier than expected declaration that he
is ready to return to action.


The England winger has been sidelined for four months with a foot
injury, but he insists he is ready to play some part on
Wednesday.


"Some said I wouldn't play this season but I want to come back
and make an impact, and hopefully that'll be on Wednesday night,"
Cole said. "I've been out a long time but hopefully I can hit the
ground running.


"I'll do what I can, even if it's only for 10 or 15 minutes."


If Valencia end Chelsea's Champions League challenge, it is a
safe bet that much of the damage will have been inflicted by
David Villa.


Spain striker Villa has scored 37 goals in 64 games for Los Che
and he was instrumental in their 3-2 win over Espanyol on
Saturday.


Villa, valued at 70 million pounds, is one of Europe's most
coverted forwards and he knows Valencia's hopes rest on his
shoulders.


"If a chance falls to me, I have to be fully focused to make sure
I put it away. That is what is expected of me," Villa said.


"We know it won't be easy and one of the strongest teams in the
competition stands in our way. But we believe we can triumph and
make it to the semi-finals.


"Chelsea are solid in defence but I will do my best to lead the
attack so that they don't have a moment's rest. It just makes me
more determined.


"The last few days have gone really well and I'm full of
confidence now I'm back scoring goals. We've got a bit of time to
rest and prepare for Chelsea to make sure we go out there at full
strength."


Quique Sanchez Flores's side need Villa to be on form because
they will be without several key players in London.


Carlos Marchena and David Navarro are suspended following the
brawl that marred their last 16 win over Inter Milan, Fernando
Morientes is out with a dislocated shoulder, while Roberto Ayala
suffered a concussion against Espanyol that makes him a doubt.

