

As the cricket World Cup loses its fizz in India after the
national team's first round exit, those in the business of sports
have discovered an unlikely revenue- earner in rugby.


Rugby is a fledging sport in a country that has eyes only for
cricket, but the Rugby World Cup in France later this year has
proved a major boon for a sports goods manufacturer in northern
Punjab.


Ajay Mahajan is delighted after securing rights to supply rugby
equipment to the UK-based Richter Engineering Limited, the
official suppliers for the World Cup.


Mahajan, who runs the family's flourishing sports goods business
in Jalandhar city, views rugby as a great chance to diversify
beyond the usual line of bats, balls and wickets.


"We will supply the paraphernalia related to rugby like tackle
shields, protective suits and other gear," Mahajan told AFP.


"All the national teams participating in the World Cup will be
sporting gear made by us," he said.


"We are doing something which may not be a routine thing in a
cricket-driven country. We do not have a domestic market for
rugby goods but the business abroad has been good."


India, which was affiliated to the International Rugby Board
(IRB) in 2001, has 13,200 registered players and the national
team is ranked 88th out of 95 in the world.


India tried to qualify for the World Cup but were knocked out by
Kazakhstan in the qualifying round. The team has two wins, one
tie and 14 losses in IRB- recognised tournaments.


Mahajan, who is also secretary of the Sports Good Manufacturers
and Exporters Association of India, said the sale of cricket
equipment had plummetted following the World Cup debacle.


He added that scheduling of the cricket World Cup in March-April
was ill-timed for his industry.


"Cricket is a youth-driven sport and most of cricket clientele
was tied up with school-leaving examinations," said Mahajan.


"We expected sales to grow once exams finished in April. But now
the Indian team is out of the World Cup and the fever has gone.


"The hot weather in March-April is not conducive to playing
cricket. I am not surprised the sale of cricket equipment has
dried up."


Mahajan said poor sale of cricketing products could also be
attributed to the lack of demand for promotional goods like
autographed bats and miniature balls.


"Companies often give out freebies as part of their promotional
campaigns during big sporting events," he said.


"But there has not been much demand of promotional equiment from
the Caribbean nations. Probably they could not afford it. It is
the sale of such equipment that boosts revenue.


"But it has has not happened this time."


Not everyone plays cricket these days, he said. Youngsters were
turning their focus to football, golf and tennis, obviously
inspired by top sporting events being beamed into their homes by
satellite television.


"People are no longer crazy about playing cricket," said Mahajan.
"I know because our sales are being affected."


It is too early to write off the cricket goods industry in India,
but rugby is promising to be a viable option.

