

Ice-skating comedy "Blades of Glory" glided to the top of the
North American box-office this weekend, with more than 33 million
dollars in ticket sales, final industry figures showed Monday.


The movie, featuring actor-comedians Will Ferrell and Jon Heder
as a pair of male skaters who find a way to perform in a couples'
competition, skated to glory taking in some 33.01 million dollars
on its debut weekend.


The film includes cameo performances from skaters Dorothy Hamill,
Brian Boitano, Peggy Fleming, Scott Hamilton and Nancy Kerrigan.


"Meet the Robinsons," a Disney computer-animated feature about a
child orphan inventor and his saga to save the future, debuted in
second place at 25.1 million dollars in North American theaters,
according to figures from box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations.


The Greek-Persian battle epic "300" fell to third place with 11.4
million dollars. The movie angered Iranian authorities who say it
portrays their ancestors as savages, but has taken in nearly 180
million dollars since it opened four weeks ago.


"TMNT," the cartoon comeback of 1980s heroes the Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles, slid to fourth place with 9.2 million dollars
after seizing the number-one spot last week.


The comedy "Wild Hogs," which portrays the bumbling motorcycle
road trip of a handful of middle-aged suburbanites, took fifth
place with 8.7 million, while the sniper thriller "Shooter" took
sixth with 8.3 million.


Rounding out the top 12 were the Sandra Bullock thriller
"Premonition" with 5.2 million; the horror sequel to last year's
remake of the Wes Craven original "The Hills Have Eyes 2," which
snatched 4.1 million; the September 11 recovery story starring
Adam Sandler "Reign Over Me" with 3.83 million, and the
futuristic save-the-planet feature "The Last Mimzy" with 3.81
million.


Crime story "The Lookout" debuted at 11th place with two million,
and the Indian-American story of love and cultures clashing "The
Namesake" took 12th with 1.5 million.


The top 12 films pulled in an estimated 116 million over the
weekend, a decrease of 11.8 percent compared to a year earlier.

