

The dollar drifted in a narrow range Monday as traders mulled a
weaker-than- expected survey on the US manufacturing sector that
also showed increasing inflation pressures.


Investors were cautious ahead of other data later this week amid
uncertainty about the prospects for the US economy and growing
tension between Britain and Iran over Tehran's capture of 15
British naval personnel.


The euro rose to 1.3365 dollars at 2100 GMT, from 1.3356 dollars
late in New York on Friday.


The dollar fetched 117.83 yen,  compared with 117.82 late on
Friday.


The Institute of Supply Management said Monday that its index of
national industrial activity dipped to 50.9 percent from 52.3
percent in February.


However, the prices element of the survey surged to 65.5 from
59.0, reinforcing expectations that US interest rates will not be
cut any time soon.


Paul Bednarczyk, currency strategist at 4CAST, added: "There
wasn't much of a response from the dollar as the data was fairly
mixed with the fall in employment being offset by the rise in
prices.


"Traders are also being fairly cautious this week and closing
positions as US payrolls data is out on Friday when financial
markets are closed," he added.


News of US plans to impose sanctions on some Chinese imports last
week also dented the dollar.


The US Commerce Department has imposed subsidies on Chinese
imports of glossy paper after a complaint about government
support for Chinese producers.


The Japanese currency came under pressure overnight after the
Bank of Japan said business confidence fell back from a two-year
high in the three months to March, marking the first decline for
a year.


But the yen later recovered ground as market participants took
the view that the dip will not threaten the Japanese economic
recovery.


"The Tankan (BoJ report) showed some weakness but that was still
within expectations," said Saburo Matsumoto, chief forex
strategist at Sumitomo Trust Bank.


"For some players, the result was even better than originally
anticipated," Matsumoto said. "It is hard for any players to
continue selling the yen only based on the Tankan result."


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Tankan survey showed, slightly below
market expectations for a figure of 24, the central bank said.


The market was meanwhile keeping a close watch on the stand-off
between Britain and Iran over 15 British sailors and marines
seized in the Gulf.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2154 Swiss francs
from 1.2152 Friday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9776 dollars from 1.9679.

