

Americans are increasingly anxious about the direction of US
foreign policy, with little public appetite for using military
force to settle international disputes, according to a poll
released Wednesday.


The Confidence in US Foreign Policy Index, published by think
tank Public Agenda and the magazine Foreign Affairs, also found
rising concern for the way the United States is seen abroad, and
strong support as well for pulling US troops from Iraq.


"This latest Confidence in US Foreign Policy Index... provides
mounting evidence of widespread public doubt about the country's
international position," the two organizations said in the study.


Public Agenda's Anxiety Indicator, which is billed as gauging
Americans' anxiousness or contentment with US foreign policy,
stood at 137 -- above the neutral mid-point of 100 and seven
points higher than it was in September 2006.


"The Anxiety Indicator is moving closer to the 150 mark, the 'red
zone' that to me would signal a full blown crisis of public
confidence," said Daniel Yankelovich, chairman of Public Agenda.


"The new research provides striking evidence that Americans'
anguish over Iraq is spilling over to other areas of foreign
policy -- with serious potential effects on the policy options
available to current and future leaders," the report added.


An overwhelming 84 percent of respondents said they worried about
the way things were going for the United States in world affairs
and 82 percent said the world was becoming more dangerous for the
United States and its people.


Almost three out of four said the country was not doing a good
job as a world leader in creating a more peaceful and prosperous
planet, while 68 percent said the rest of the world saw the
United States negatively.


And while six out of 10 said the United States had a moral
obligation to the people of Iraq, seven out of 10 favored
withdrawing US troops from the country.


"Overwhelmingly negative opinions on the efficacy of military
options can't help but impact future decisions made by our
country's leaders," the report said, singling out the case of
Iran.


Only eight percent favored military action against Iran, which
has repeatedly defied the United States over its nuclear program.


Some 59 percent of respondents said they did say they did not
trust the government to tell the truth on foreign affairs, up 10
points since September.


"Many recent polls have said that Americans are disillusioned
with the Iraq war, but this research goes deeper," said Gideon
Rose, Foreign Affairs' managing editor.


"We are seeing the public seriously inclined to limit America's
foreign policy options because they no longer trust Washington's
judgment," he said.


Faith in the government's ability to prevent a repeat of the
September 11 attacks also fell, with only 36 percent saying there
was a lot the government can do to ward off the eventuality of
another major attack.


And while 82 percent said they were worried about the possibility
of unfriendly nations becoming nuclear powers, 63 percent said it
was unrealistic to expect the US government to be able to prevent
proliferation.


The poll identified improving intelligence operations and
increasing energy independence as the country's foreign policy
priorities.


By comparison, actively creating democracies in other countries
found little support, with 74 percent saying democracy is
"something countries only come to on their own."


"The public has come to the conclusion that military solutions
aren't the answer," said Public Agenda's president, Ruth Wooden.


The study questioned 1,013 adults between February 21 and March
4.

