

China and Sudan will lift ties to a "new height", Chinese state
media said, despite world pressure on Beijing to shun Sudan's
government over charges it is aiding genocide in Darfur.


Visiting Sudanese military chief Haj Ahmed El Gaili and Chinese
Defence Minister Cao Gangchuan agreed the two sides should seek
closer ties in military and other spheres, Xinhua news agency
reported.


"Military relations between China and Sudan have developed
smoothly," Xinhua quoted Cao as telling his Sudanese guest, who
is in China for an eight-day visit that began Sunday.


Gao praised the "profound friendship" of the two nations and said
China wanted to "further promote bilateral cooperation in various
fields."


The Sudanese military chief replied that his country wanted to
maintain and strengthen cooperation with China "to lift bilateral
ties to a new height."


Fighting between rebels and armed pro-government groups in
Sudan's Darfur region has killed 200,000 people and displaced
more than two million in the past four years, according to the
United Nations.


The Khartoum regime stands accused of genocide by Washington for
its repression of a rebellion in Darfur and has consistently
rejected the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force to stem the
bloodshed.


China is one of Sudan's most important international allies,
buying around 60 percent of the African nation's oil exports, and
has used its UN Security Council veto to block moves condemning
Khartoum.


The United States has pushed China to use its leverage to help
bring Sudan's government to heel.


French centrist presidential candidate Francois Bayrou last week
called for a boycott of the 2008 Beijing Olympics due to China's
support of Sudan's government.


US actress and UNICEF goodwill ambassador Mia Farrow also said in
a Wall Street Journal commentary this week that the Beijing Games
would become known as the "Genocide Olympics".


Chinese President Hu Jintao visited Sudan in February, but
critics said he applied only mild pressure on Khartoum to reform.

