

England head into their Super Eights clash with Sri Lanka here
Wednesday knowing defeat could all but end their chances of
reaching the World Cup semi-finals.


Michael Vaughan's men, handicapped by a six-wicket loss to fellow
Group C qualifiers New Zealand during their opening match, which
meant they didn't carry forward two points to the second round,
face a make or break week.


England, after playing Sri Lanka, return to the Sir Vivian
Richards Stadium on Sunday to take on reigning champions
Australia, who've won five out of five at this World Cup.


Although it's mathematically possible for England to lose both
games and still reach the semi-finals, realistically they need to
win at least one of their two matches this week to have a hope of
reaching the last four for the first time since 1992.


The omens against Sri Lanka are not good.


Last year Mahela Jayawardene's team beat England 5-0 in a one-day
series, culminating in an extraordinary eight-wicket triumph at
Headingley.


Set 322 to win, Sri Lanka made 324 for two after a world record
opening stand of 286 between Upul Tharanga (109) and Sanath
Jayasuriya (152).


Since that match in July, England have tinkered with their side
to such an extent that top-order batsman Ian Bell is likely to be
the only survivor come Wednesday although Andrew Strauss, captain
that day, could come in for fellow opener Ed Joyce.


Whoever England field as a first-wicket partnership, they don't
have a pair  to match the rapid scoring of the Sri Lankan duo and
no-one near the class of experienced left-hander Jayasuriya, who
made 115 in Sunday's 113-run thrashing of hosts West Indies.


However, England coach Duncan Fletcher said there was no point
trying to make the likes of Vaughan and Joyce play someone else's
game.


"We mustn't ask players to do things that are foreign to them,
because that could really be pretty disastrous. All our players
must play to their strengths," he said.


England, who gave themselves and the rest of the cricket world a
confidence boost with their 2-0 win against Australia in the
finals of the CB series, have seen their standards slip in a
series of lacklustre wins against minnows Canada, Kenya and
Ireland.


The top three have repeatedly failed to come good while, in the
field, England have only twice bowled sides out and even then
made hard work of taking 10 wickets against Kenya and Ireland


"We've had a good chat about intensity and we need to have our
fingers on the pulse this week," star batsman Kevin Pietersen
said.


"The other day against Ireland we got six wickets and then the
last few batters scored a load of runs. The intensity dropped off
a bit, but that is natural.


"The boys have spoken about it and we know we have to keep our
intensity up throughout."


By contrast, Sri Lanka look to have a far more balanced team with
left-armer Chaminda Vaas and the unorthodox Lasith Malinga, whose
four wickets in four balls almost set-up a stunning win against
South Africa, a handful for any batting side long before off-spin
maestro Muttiah Muralitharan comes on.


"One of the great things about our side is that we have a variety
and balance," said Sri Lanka wicket-keeper Kumar Sangakkara.


"We've got three different types of fast bowlers, four different
kinds of spinners and then when it comes to the batters we have
variety there as well.


"Sanath at the top, workers in the middle and then guys who can
finish off with a bang at the end."


And Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody, long touted as a contender to
replace Fletcher in the England job, added: "We are very excited
about the game, we've done well against them recently.


"We'll feel it's a game that we can win," said the former
Australia international. "And that's the frame of mind we need to
have."

