

After sealing a sweeping free trade agreement minutes before a
deadline, US and South Korean leaders braced Tuesday for a battle
to get their legislatures to approve the deal.


"We've passed a key hurdle in the South Korea-US FTA but are now
facing another one -- its ratification by the National Assembly,"
President Roh Moo-Hyun told a cabinet meeting.


The government said it would compensate Korea's likely losers --
farmers, small manufacturers and service businesses -- in what
both sides overall hailed as a "win-win" deal".


It said it would offer farmers direct payments for a loss of
earnings and compensate those who decide to leave the land.


"Parliamentary ratification won't be easy to attain. The bottom
line is that the government has to persuade the people," Roh
said, complaining of "distortions and groundless logic" by FTA
opponents.


Conservative newspapers and politicians heaped rare praise on
Roh, who defied left-leaning political allies and months-long
street protests to push for the pact.


The leader of the leftist Democratic Labour Party, meanwhile,
ended a 26-day hunger strike but said his party would start
campaigning to kill off the pact.


"I can no longer recognise Roh Moo-Hyun as the president of this
country," said Moon Seong-Hyun.


A recent poll showed 55 percent of Korean legislators favour an
accord.


Commentators said the deal gives the US a commercial foothold in
Northeast Asia.


It also gives South Korea a chance to upgrade an economy which
was built on protection for manufacturing, but which is
increasingly being squeezed between low-cost China and the
world's second largest economy Japan.


Neither China nor Japan have an FTA with the US.


"Now Korea has chosen to compete as a lion in the wild rather
than remaining as a rabbit in a fenced yard," said a JoongAng
Daily editorial.


Studies show the deal could add about 15 billion dollars to
annual two-way trade, which was worth 78 billion dollars in 2006.


But the Korea Rural Economic Research Institute predicts farmers
will lose 130,000 jobs and as much as two trillion won (two
billion dollars) in sales of their expensive products.


Consumers will benefit, however, in a country with some of Asia's
most expensive food prices.


Seoul agreed immediately to scrap tariffs on 38 percent of the
1,531 agriculture products under discussion, Yonhap news agency
said.


It succeeded in excluding its culturally sensitive rice crop but
agreed in return to phase out its 40 percent tariff on beef over
15 years, and to "positively consider" scrapping non-tariff
barriers to US beef.


In the auto sector, responsible for more than 80 percent of the
US bilateral trade deficit of 16 billion dollars in 2005, the two
sides will scrap tariffs on many models as soon as the deal goes
into force.


Overall nearly 90 percent of each side's tariffs on industrial
goods will be scrapped immediately.


The pact was agreed minutes before the deadline for President
George W. Bush to submit it to the Democrat-controlled Congress,
if it is to pass while he still has "fast-track" trade promotion
authority.


Without this, the process could drag on for years.


Some US lawmakers immediately expressed disappointment with the
deal.


Peter Morici, economist at the University of Maryland, said even
if the beef question is resolved, the outlook for congressional
approval is clouded.


Tami Overby, president and CEO of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Korea, argued that if Congress kills the FTA, the US
will lose the chance to help shape the trade policy agenda in
Northeast Asia.


"We will be left on the sidelines while others determine the
rules of the game," she told AFP.


"For the US the deal is commercially significant, it's with its
seventh largest trading partner. But it's bigger than just Korea.
It's important for the US to continue to stay engaged in Asia."

