

South Asian nations must "root out terrorism" to turn around the
fortunes of their underperforming trading bloc, India's prime
minister told the start of a regional conference on Tuesday.


"We should implement in a meaningful and sincere manner the
commitment and pledge made to root out terrorism to create an
atmosphere for our endeavour to succeed," Manmohan Singh told a
South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit in
the Indian capital.


The time has come for SAARC to work together to realise the
vision of prosperity, cooperation, peace and development, Singh
said.


"We should break with the past and join hands to overcome the
challenges," Singh said.


The two-day summit of the SAARC, which groups countries who
account for nearly 1.5 billion people or one-fifth of humanity,
is set to be dominated by security and trade issues.


The organisation has made little progress since its formation in
1985, largely because of tensions between India and Pakistan,
which have fought three wars, two over the disputed Muslim-
majority region of Kashmir.


Pakistan Foreign Minister Shaukat Aziz also called for progress
at SAARC.


"Our progress remains short of our aspirations," said Aziz,
blaming violence and conflict management that had "drained our
energies."


"We have to make SAARC goal-oriented," he said.


SAARC is made up of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives,
Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka -- accounting for half the world's
poor.


The summit opened with leaders of the seven countries signing a
declaration that formally brings in Afghanistan as a new member.


Major powers such as China, the European Union, Japan, South
Korea and the United States will be attending as observers.


Iran has also been given preliminary approval to join with
observer status, depite rising tensions between Tehran and the
West over its capture of 15 British naval personnel and
widespread concerns over Iran's refusal to limit its suspect
nuclear programme.


Officials say SAARC member states badly needed to overcome mutual
suspicions and work harder if they wanted to inject new momentum
into the bloc.


A South Asian Free Trade Agreement (SAFTA), which came into force
last year and was presented as crucial to boosting living
standards, is yet to be fully implemented due to bickering
between India and Pakistan.


Intra-regional trade remains at just five percent of the
countries' total.

