

Aston Villa grabbed a vital poit in their bid to avoid relegation
here on Monday as Gabriel Agbonlahor socred a late equaliser to
draw 1-1 with Everton.


Agbonlahor's strike enabled Villa to move five points clear of
third from bottom Charlton Athletic - though their winless streak
in the Premiership stretched to five - while Everton's hopes of
putting more pressure on Arsenal for the fourth and final
Champions League spot were dealt a blow with the two dropped
points.


They remain in seventh, eight points off the Gunners.


Everton's Joleon Lescott scored in the 15th minute - his first
for the club - heading home a Mikel Arteta freekick after the
wily Spaniard had been fouled by Gavin McCann, who was later to
be booked for another foul on Arteta and earning himself a two
match suspension.


Both sides traded shots with Howard saving from John Carew,
Gareth Barry and Stiliyan Petrov while Thomas Sorensen had to be
at his best to save from Leon Osman.


However thankfully for the 36,000 fans the second-half was a far
more entertaining with Villa having come out in lively manner.


Howard had to pull off an outstanding save from Norwegian
international Carew in the 49th minute as the lanky former Lyon
striker turned aqnd shot five metres out but the American
international got his right hand to the ball to push it out.


Even then Carew had the chance to score from the rebound but Alan
Stubbs courageously flung himself in front of the shot and the
ball was cleared.


Villa, who appeared to be energised after the half-time
introduction of Czech midfielder Patrik Berger for the
ineffective McCann, breached the Everton defence again in the
50th minute as Berger floated over a delightful chip which Carew
seized on only for Howard to somehow block it.


Berger was causing constant problems down the left and the
outstanding Stubbs saved Everton when in the 70th minute the
Czech found Carew, but the goalbound shot was somehow blocked by
Stubbs.


Stubbs was at it again a minute later as again Berger's teasing
cross looked certain to cause havoc but the former Bolton and
Celtic centreback chested it into Howard's grateful hands.


However Villa's second-half resurgence was eventually rewarded in
the 83rd minute as Agbonlahor slid the ball into the box, Howard
once again bravely blocked Carew's effort but the youngster was
on hand to slot home the rebound for his seventh of the season.

