

Gary Player wants to live to be 100 and at the rate he is going,
the 71-year-old South African fitness fanatic and three-time
Masters champion might still be playing in the year's first
major.


Player will match Arnold Palmer for the most starts in Masters
history when he tees off Thursday in his 50th start at Augusta
National Golf Club. Player won in 1961, the first non-US golfer
to do so, as well as in 1974 and 1978.


"It's a great privilege for me," Player said Monday. "To be fit
enough to play 50 times, you've got to be healthy. One cannot
take that for granted.


"Just to live to 71 isn't bad, never mind be playing at Augusta."


The oldest Masters starter was Fred McLeod who was 79 when he
played in 1962. Player will have to go some to beat that and
while he hinted at farewell next year after passing Palmer,
Player refused to say so long just yet.


"Possibly next year could be my last," Player said. "Not
committing myself. I'm not saying next year will be my last."


Player vows that when he does say farewell, it will be for good.


"When I say that's my last, if I come and tee it up, please steal
the ball. Take the ball off the first tee and run away with it,"
Player said.


Boasting that "I exercise like a Trojan" and patting his firm
abdomen as proof, Player said he works out 90 minutes five days a
week and his goal is to show people the importance of fitness and
proper diet to longevity.


"Obesity is the single biggest danger to the world today," Player
said. "I want to try and make young guys say, 'Look at this guy,
71, he can still play, look good.'


"I would like to live to 100 because I have such a zest for
life."


Player said Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus share his opinion as to
who is the greatest golfer who ever lived. Nicklaus has won 18
major titles while Woods has won 12.


"Jack's record is superior at the moment but if anyone is going
to beat it, it's Tiger Woods," Player said.


Player praised Augusta National officials for lengthening the
course so golfers use the same clubs today on their shots as they
did in Player's heyday.


But he also warned that larger, fitter, stronger players would
force even more changes in the game, pondering what might happen
if massive basketball stars such as Shaquille O'Neal or Michael
Jordan started golf in their youth.


"We're in our infancy with golf," Player said. "Tiger Woods is
playing such a significant role in world golf... where it was
always a white guy who was leading, it has given a lot of young
black kids a dream to fulfill.


"It's something we haven't seen. We have not even scratched the
surface. These guys are not going into football, basketball,
boxing.


"We've only had one big man play golf in my 60 years... but you
wait until you get the Michael Jordans and Shaq O'Neals and these
fellows coming out to play. (Driving) 400 yards is going to be
common. It's going to be ordinary.


"It's actually quite frightening to look ahead. We haven't
started seeing what's coming... The way we're going now, we're
going to play golf courses that are 8,000 yards long."


"Guys that are playing today are going to be 50 yards behind the
guys that are coming - not 20 or 30, but 50."

