

A study released Monday questioned long-standing guidelines for
pregnant US women, finding that those who gained the recommended
weight risked having children with early weight problems.


The study found that women with a weight gain deemed appropriate
were four times as likely to have kids who were overweight by age
three, compared to mothers whose extra pounds (kilograms) were
considered "inadequate."


Pregnant women who had excessive weight gain had a similarly high
risk of having kids with early weight problems.


"Maternal weight gain during pregnancy is an important
determinant of birth outcomes," said lead author Emily Oken, an
instructor in the Department of Ambulatory Care and Prevention at
Harvard Medical School in Boston.


"These findings suggest that pregnancy weight gain can influence
child health even after birth and may cause the obstetric
community to rethink current guidelines."


The findings were based on a survey of more than 1,000 mother-
and-child pairs and raise important questions about the wisdom of
17-year-old guidelines on weight gain during pregnancy, the
authors said.


When the Institute of Medicine (IOM), an independent body that
advises the federal government, came up with the guidelines in
1990, it was concerned about evidence that low weight gain in
pregnant women may cause low birth weight.


However, some clinicians and researchers have questioned whether
the evidence supported the notion that greater weight gains
promoted better health for mothers and babies in developed
countries.


They argue that higher weight gain may cause undesirable birth
outcomes, including increased rates of heavier babies and
Cesaerean section, and higher post-partum weight retention and
later risk of maternal obesity.


In this study, 51 percent of the women gained too much weight, 35
percent were within the recommended limits and 14 percent had
what was considered inadequate weight gain.


The women were evaluated using IOM guidelines, which provide
women with a target range depending on their pre-pregnancy body
mass index (BMI), or fat quota relative to weight and height.


The link between a mother's body fat and her child's later weight
problems could take several different forms, according to the
authors of the paper in the April issue of the American Journal
of Obstetrics and Gynecology.


Mothers who gain weight readily because of genetic, dietary or
other behavioral factors may have children who are more likely to
gain weight.


Also, the amount of weight gained during pregnancy may alter the
environment in the womb, not only influencing fetal growth but
also possibly resulting in persistent programming of child
weight.


"Because childhood obesity is increasing in prevalence and
effective treatment remains elusive, preventing childhood obesity
remains critical," Oken said.


"The IOM may need to reevaluate its recommendations for
gestational weight gain, considering not only birth outcomes but
also risk of obesity for both mother and child.


"While our study signals the need to adjust guidelines, further
studies will need to occur to determine just what the appropriate
weights should be."

