

The African Union on Monday expressed shock at the weekend
killing of five of its peacekeepers in the war-torn Sudanese
region of Darfur and said the deployment of a robust UN-AU force
was now unavoidable.


AU Commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare was "deeply shocked and
saddened" by Sunday's killing of five Senegalese peacekeepers in
the Sudanese western Darfur region, according to a statement
released in Addis Ababa.


Two other African Union staff were also killed in Sudan one month
ago.


"These attacks have been launched against the backdrop of an
increasing spate of harassments, hijackings, threats and
blackmail that have been made against the mission and its top
leadership by some of those it is supposed to work with and
assist," the statement said.


The AU mission, or AMIS, has some 7,000 troops deployed in the
region but the under-funded and ill-equipped contingent has
failed to stem violence that has steadily escalated since the
conflict erupted there in 2003.


Sunday's attack came amid mounting ethnic unrest in Darfur, where
at least 62 members of an Arab tribe were killed in a massive
attack the previous day.


It brought to 15 the number of peacekeepers killed in Darfur
since they were first deployed in 2004.


The AU did not point the finger for the attack but said the seven
were killed in areas controlled by the rebel Sudan Liberation
Movement. The Senegalese army has explictly blamed the SLM.


Konare said the current security climate in Darfur meant the
Khartoum government must now accept the deployment of a robust
UN-AU peacekeeping force there.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir has rejected the deployment of
a UN force, which was proposed last year, to join the AU force,
saying the West was plotting neo-colonialism in Africa's largest
nation.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since the Darfur
conflict erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.


The conflict broke out when rebels from minority tribes took up
arms to demand an equal share of national resources. This
prompted a heavy-handed crackdown by Khartoum and its proxy
militia called the Janjaweed.

