

A retired FBI agent has been missing since last month while on a
private visit to Iran, US officials said Monday.


The US national, who has not been identified, was "in Iran on
private business," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack
said, adding that neither his employer nor his family had heard
from him for "several weeks."


He refused to say exactly when the man disappeared, but indicated
the US authorities have been closely monitoring the situation for
some time.


Meanwhile, an official with the Federal Bureau of Investigation
confirmed that the missing man was a retired agent with the FBI.


"He was an employee of the FBI, he retired nearly a decade ago.
He is not an FBI contractor and when he was here, his primary
assignments included criminal matters such as organized crime."


According to a senior State Department official, US authorities
were informed that the man had disappeared around March 11 but
did not react earlier because they were not sure what the exact
situation was.


The United States on Monday formally requested that Iran
investigate the man's disappearance, passing a message via Swiss
intermediaries, McCormack said.


Washington and Tehran broke off diplomatic ties 27 years ago and
US interests in Iran are conducted via Switzerland.


McCormack stressed that Washington saw no connection between the
man's disappearance and the affair of 15 British naval personnel
seized by Iran on March 23 allegedly for trespassing into Iranian
waters.


The man is believed to be middle-aged, and was on Kish Island, a
free-trade zone off the southern Iranian coast, he added.


The White House said it was not unusual for an American to go
missing in Iran, but that the State Department was seeking "as
much information as possible."


"It's not completely a unique scenario to have an American
citizen go missing there and possibly need consular support,"
White House deputy press secretary Dana Perino told reporters.


The State Department is trying to "find out if he doesn't need
any support or help," Perino said.

