

Tin will fetch record prices over 2007 because of a regulatory
clampdown on illegal tin miners and smelters in Indonesia, the
world's second biggest supplier of the metal, analysts say.


Indonesia began closing down unregistered tin operators last year
and implemented stricter export regulations in February that
require firms to register for clearance.


The moves cut supply into the global market and contributed to a
rise of about 15 percent in the tin price so far this year, with
demand continuing to be driven by China and India, the booming
economies of Asia.


Isnaputra, a mining analyst with securities house Danareksa, told
AFP the tin price would average 14,000 dollars per tonne this
year.


The commodity, used extensively in the electronics and other
industries, has been trading at around that level recently -- the
highest for about two decades.


"Indonesia previously supplied 120,000 tonnes per year, which
represented 17 percent of global tin supply. Half of its supply
was from unregistered companies," Isnaputra said.


Experts estimate Indonesia's supply could fall by about 30,000
tonnes in 2007 as firms comply with the new rules.


"Since 2000, China has taken the lead as the world's bigger tin
consumer. Previously it was Europe and the United States," Ahmad
Solihin, an analyst at Mandiri Sekuritas, told AFP.


Solihin said the tin price, which he believes may average 12,500
dollars over the year, still well up on 2006, will depend on how
serious the government is about cracking down on the illegal
miners.


"If all illegal smelters are banned, automatically the tin price
(will rise) ... so far, the government has been serious and so
far it's been successful."


State-linked PT Tambang Timah, the world's largest integrated tin
producer, is one of the few firms to have obtained clearance
under the new regulations.


Its share price has rocketed from about 2,500 rupiah (0.27
dollars) in late 2006 to 11,400 as investors bet on bumper
profits. The firm has an export capacity of around 50,000 tonnes
per year.


"We are doing well. We are continuing to export. We've shipped
about 5,000 tonnes since February," said Prasetyo Saksono, the
firm's corporate secretary.


Koba Tin, the country's second largest tin producer, has
suspended deliveries amid an ongoing probe in the Bangka-Belitung
islands, which account for nearly half of Indonesia's refined tin
exports.


Three of the firm's top executives have been arrested on
allegations that it was involved in buying ore from illegal
miners.


Refined tin for export must meet a purity level of at least 99.85
percent under Indonesia's new rules. Firms must also submit
three-monthly reports on their exports and allow government-
appointed surveyors to check the shipments.


Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry official Djoko Purnomo said
that dozens of small smelters had been shut since October as a
result of the crackdown on illegal operators.


"About 37 small smelters were forced to close because they did
not have licences from the central government. They only
possessed an authorisation from the local administration,"
Purnomo said.


Officials say the regulations are intended to curb unchecked
shipments of tin and mounting illegal mining, which some feared
was causing environmental damage.


"It will prevent environmental destruction in Bangka-Belitung
from getting worse," Indonesian Mining Association spokesman
Priyo Pribadi said.


He added that the regulations would also protect state-linked PT
Tambang Timah, since it is one of the few firms exporting under
the new regime.


Some analysts say the high tin price will eventually encourage
more supply from elsewhere in the world and lead buyers to
consider alternative metals, causing the tin price to fall back.

