

European-based financial cooperative SWIFT did not breach
Canadian privacy laws when it transferred personal information to
US authorities for use in anti- terror probes, Canada's privacy
czar said Monday.


Privacy commissioner Jennifer Stoddart said in a statement the
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication "did
not contravene" federal rules "when it complied with lawful
subpoenas served outside the country and disclosed personal
information about Canadians to foreign authorities."


It was alleged that SWIFT had "inappropriately disclosed to the
US Department of Treasury personal information originating from
or transferred to Canadian financial institutions."


Following the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States,
the US treasury department began issuing subpoenas to SWIFT for
certain data held in its US operating center -- including data
from Canadian banks.


SWIFT, based outside Brussels, deals with trillions of dollars in
global transactions daily between nearly 8,000 financial
institutions in more than 200 countries.


The company admitted in June 2006 that it had provided US
authorities with a "limited" amount of data in the wake of the
2001 terror attacks but insisted it had done its utmost to
protect privacy.


Canada's federal privacy law restricts the collection, use and
disclosure of personal information by companies.


"An organization ... that has moved personal information outside
the country for business reasons may be required at times to
disclose it to the legitimate authorities of that country,"
Stoddart said.


"It is clear that in response to a valid subpoena ... an
organization must disclose personal information and (the Canadian
act) makes it permissible to comply with this obligation."


But the commissioner also urged US authorities to "use existing
information mechanisms that have some degree of transparency and
built-in privacy protections" if they need to obtain information
about financial transactions that have a Canadian component.


As well, she said she would ask Canadian authorities to work with
their US counterparts to persuade them to use Canadian anti-money
laundering and anti- terrorism financing mechanisms instead of a
subpoena.

