

Leading Senate Democrats on Monday unveiled a bid to cut off most
funding for the Iraq war after March 31, 2008, hardening their
position in a bitter standoff with the White House.


New gambits from both sides in the bitter debate came days after
Congress added timelines for troop withdrawals from Iraq to
multi-million dollar war budget legislation, which President
George W. Bush has vowed to veto.


Stepping up their attack on the White House, Democrats unveiled
new legislation which they pledged to pursue if Bush follows
through on his threat.


The measure, co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
and Senator Russ Feingold would cut funding for most Iraq war
operations after March 31, 2008, the date already set as a goal
for withdrawal of most combat troops in the 122 billion war
budget bill passed by the Senate.


It would permit funding only for operations against Al-Qaeda,
training and equipping Iraqi troops and protecting US personnel
and installations.


"If the president vetoes the supplemental appropriations bill and
continues to resist changing course in Iraq, I will work to
ensure this legislation receives a vote in the Senate in the next
work period," Reid said.


Feingold said in an email message to supporters that the bill
would use "Congress's constitutional 'power of the purse'
authority to safely redeploy our troops from Iraq by March 31,
2008."


"Our bill funds the troops, it just de-funds the war," he said.


The legislation, to be officially unveiled on April 10 when the
Senate returns from its Easter break, would almost certainly face
a veto by Bush, as the president has vowed to block any
legislation that includes withdrawal timetables.


Though both the Democratic controlled House and Senate managed to
pass provisions calling for withdrawal of most combat troops from
Iraq by 2008 at the latest, Democrats lack majorities required to
overcome a Bush veto, so are locked in a high-stakes political
poker game with the White House.


Bush aides immediately criticized the new Democratic party
initiative.


"There's just these shifting sands when it comes to the Democrats
and their decisions," said White House deputy spokeswoman Dana
Perino.


"It's almost shifting so fast it's like a sandstorm," Perino
said, prompting a quick retaliation from Reid's spokesman Jim
Manley.


"The only thing that has shifted is the public support for the
war in Iraq.  As more and more Americans demand to see the troops
get out of what is clearly a civil war, this administration
stubbornly continues to stick its head in the sand," Manley said.


The confrontation was likely be turned up another notch on
Tuesday, as Bush was scheduled to make a statement at 10:10 a.m.
(1410 GMT) on Iraq war spending bills, the White House said.


Top Democratic Party leaders have so far been loathe to use their
constitutional power to cut the purse strings for the war,
fearing they may pay a political price for being seen as
unsupportive of American soldiers in battle.


Vice President Dick Cheney meanwhile warned Monday the United
States faced defeat in Iraq if Democrats succeed in imposing a
timetable for withdrawal.


"It's time the self-appointed strategists on Capitol Hill
understood a very simple concept: You cannot win a war if you
tell the enemy you're going to quit," Cheney said in remarks
prepared for delivery at a political fundraiser.


"When members of Congress speak not of victory but of time
limits, deadlines, or other arbitrary measures, they're telling
the enemy to simply watch the clock and wait us out," Cheney
charged.


"It's time for Congress to stop the political theater and send
the president a bill he can sign into law."


Democratic and Senate negotiators are spending the current recess
in Congress reconciling the House and Senate versions of the
budget bill that can be sent to Bush's desk.


The House version of the war budget contains a withdrawal
deadline of August 31, 2008.

