

Norway's Telenor said Tuesday it plans to list its GrameenPhone
subsidiary on the stock exchange in Bangladesh after rejecting a
claim by Nobel Laureate Muhammad Yunus for control of the telecom
firm.


Telenor owns 62 percent of GrameenPhone, Bangladesh's leading
mobile phone company with more than 12 million subscribers. It is
also the largest private enterprise in Bangladesh.


Grameen Telecom, a unit of the Yunus-founded Grameen Bank, holds
the remaining 38 percent and offered last week to buy another 13
percent for 427 million dollars to get a majority stake, Grameen
Telecom chief executive Ashraful Hasan said.


It says that was the original proposal under a 1996 agreement by
the Norwegian group to cede control of Grameen Phone within six
years.


But Telenor's chief executive said in a statement that the firm
would rather list an unspecified percentage of the firm on the
Dhaka Stock Exchange and rejected the agreement as a statement of
intent and not binding.


"A public listing would bring more Bangladeshi ownership into
GrameenPhone," Telenor President and Chief Executive Officer Jon
Fredrik Baksaas said in a statement.


"We think it is important that the people of Bangladesh and all
customers of GrameenPhone can become owners of this successful
company," he said.


Yunus used his Nobel Peace Prize lecture last October to plead
for Telenor to relinquish control so he could make GrameenPhone
"a social business by giving majority ownership to the poor women
of Grameen Bank."


"Someday GrameenPhone will become another example of a big
enterprise owned by the poor," he said to loud applause from the
audience, which included Baksaas.


Bangladesh is one of the world's poorest countries with nearly
half of its 144 million population surviving on less than a
dollar day.


But its booming mobile phone industry has emerged as a key driver
of the cash- strapped nation's economy, creating nearly 240,000
jobs and adding 650 million dollars annually to gross domestic
product, a study said last May.

