

The US-South Korea free trade pact faces a tough road in Congress
amid a variety of concerns over Seoul's policies as well the US
administration's handling of trade issues, analysts say.


The free trade agreement (FTA) clinched with only minutes to
spare in Seoul is not assured passage in the Congress controlled
by the Democratic Party.


In fact, some lawmakers say they will even block consideration of
the FTA unless Seoul moves to end its ban on US beef imposed due
to concerns about mad cow disease.


The exclusion of rice -- considered a sensitive commodity in
Korea -- may also make approval harder, say analysts. And the
phasing out of US tariffs on Korean- made pickup trucks could
prompt opposition in Washington among critics who argue the South
Korean auto industry benefits from unfair advantages in its home
market.


Deputy US Trade Representative Karan Bhatia said the deal, the
biggest since the North American Free Trade Agreement, "is a very
strong FTA" that opens up financial services and makes 95 percent
of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products duty free
within three years.


Bhatia said the agreement includes "provisions to level the
playing field in the automotive area," and "is also a very strong
agriculture agreement."


Nonetheless, the announcement got only a lukewarm response from
lawmakers.


"I have mixed feelings," said Republican Senator Chuck Grassley.


Grassley said although the trade pact is "commercially
significant," he added: "I'm disappointed that rice was excluded
from the agreement. On principle, I oppose taking agricultural
products off the table in trade negotiations. It just facilitates
the continuation of protectionism."


The Iowa senator noted that the agreement "is dead on arrival
until the beef issue gets resolved," he said.


While the ban on beef is not officially part of the free-trade
agreement (FTA), both sides acknowledge that US lawmakers would
reject any deal unless the issue is resolved.


"I don't think the Congress will approve an FTA with Korea
without the full reopening of the Korean beef market," Bhatia
told reporters on a conference call from Seoul. "We have made
that very clear to Korea and they understand that."


Before a 2003 import ban, South Korea bought 850 million dollars'
worth of US beef a year. Seoul last year agreed to accept US
boneless beef but rejected three shipments after discovering tiny
bone fragments.


Seoul did agree to phase out its 40 percent tariff on beef over
15 years. Tariffs on pork will go over 10 years.


On the ban, Korean officials said in Seoul they promised to
"positively consider" US demands on beef after the International
Organization for Animal Health reviews mad cow risks in the US.


Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus said Seoul made only
"vague promises" that were insufficient.


"I will oppose the Korea Free Trade Agreement, and in fact I will
not allow it to move through the Senate, unless and until Korea
completely lifts its ban on US beef," Baucus said in a statement.


Peter Morici, economist at the University of Maryland, said even
if the beef question is resolved, the outlook for congressional
approval is clouded.


"The prospects are uncertain as they are with any of the
agreements because of the dissatisfaction with the performance of
US trade policy," Morici said.


"This harkens back to China."


Morici said trade with South Korea faces some of the same issues
as with China and previously with Japan, but that the concerns
have been overshadowed by the issues with the larger Asian
economies.


"Korea has itself engaged in currency manipulation and veiled
nontariff barriers, especially in automobiles," Morici said.


"We're going to be removing our tariffs for trucks and it's not
clear how we will achieve reciprocity."


Because South Korea is an industrial powerhouse, Morici predicted
opposition in the US from "anyone who bends metal."


Stephen Collins, president of the Automotive Trade Policy Council
representing Detroit automakers, said the group was "awaiting the
still undisclosed elements" of the agreement but that "based on
what we know, this agreement does not appear to meet our
expectations."


DaimlerChrysler added that although it has supported other FTAs,
"we will not support this agreement as we currently understand
it."


Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International
Economics, said he was disappointed about rice being excluded
from the agreement but argued that this hurt the Koreans more
than the US.


"The Koreans would gain a great deal from liberalizing their rice
markets and cutting consumer costs," Bergsten said.


"It doesn't really make much difference to the US nowadays. In
fact our study showed the US is really as well off under the FTA
without rice being included."


But US Chamber of Commerce president Thomas Donohue said the FTA
is "a good agreement that will go a long way toward opening the
world's 10th largest economy to US exports and bring substantial
benefits for American manufacturers, farmers, and service
providers."

