

Zimbabwe's main union organisation was to launch a two-day
general strike on Tuesday as opponents of veteran President
Robert Mugabe turn up the heat on his beleaguered government.


The Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU), said the decision
to embark on a general shutdown follows the government's failure
to respond to concerns about the worsening economic crisis in a
country where 80 percent of people are jobless and inflation
stands at 1,730 percent, the highest rate in the world.


The government has warned the organisers that such an action will
only serve to worsen the economic crisis but the ZCTU, which was
formerly headed by Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai, has refused to back down.


"Everything is set for tomorrow (Tuesday) and Wednesday," ZCTU
secretary general Wellington Chibebe told AFP.


"There is no going back because we are hungry."


Zimbabwe was once one of Africa's success stories, but the
economic meltdown has taken such a hold that few Zimbabweans can
now afford three meals a day or a bus fare to work. More than
three million have emigrated, mostly to South Africa.


The first major shows of discontent towards Mugabe's regime, in
power since independence in 1980, were orchestrated by the ZCTU
under Tsvangirai in the late 1990s when thousands of workers took
to the streets.


More recently however union demonstrations have been stopped in
their tracks by Mugabe's security forces. Chibebe and several
other union chiefs were arrested in September as major nationwide
protests were crushed at the outset


This time round however, Mugabe's opponents appear determined to
stand their ground and have buried their differences after
widespread arrests and assaults last month as they tried to
attend a so-called prayer rally.


Arthur Mutambara, leader of a faction which split in 2005 from
the main wing of Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change,
gave his support to the stayaway.


"We fully endorse this revolutionary confrontation with the
regime and call upon all Zimbabweans to rally behind the trade
union movement to make the stayaway a success," he said at a news
conference on Monday.


The government however has said the strike is merely a front for
Mugabe's Western opponents.


"I wish to appeal to all workers to ignore the politically-
motivated stayaway being called for by the Zimbabwe Congress of
Trade Unions," Labour Minister Nicholas Goche said in a
statement, accusing organisers of participating "in Western
backed violence aimed at regime change in Zimbabwe."


Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena said the elite National
Reaction Force will be deployed across the country to ensure
peace.


Bvudzijena added that it is an offence for members of the public
to pass threatening messages through the phone or any other
communication tool.


"The police will be on the lookout for people who commit such
offences and when arrested they should not cry foul," he said.


Chibebe said the ZCTU would not be intimidated. "We are not
scared of that reaction force; we are ready and we will be
staying away," he said.

