

Ukraine's pro-Western president, Viktor Yushchenko, Monday
dissolved parliament and set the date for snap elections as
thousands of protesters rallied against his leadership in central
Kiev.


"Today I signed the decree interrupting the parliament's powers
before term," Yushchenko said in a televised speech, adding that
"this is not only my right, it is my duty."


According to the decree, new parliamentary elections were due to
be held May 27.


The dissolution will be effective once the decree is published in
the official newspaper, a member of the central electoral
committee, Andrei Maguera, explained to AFP.


Yushchenko has earlier accused lawmakers from the ruling pro-
Russia majority of trying to "usurp power" in this former Soviet
republic.


Thousands of supporters of the governing coalition rallied in
Kiev and set up a tent camp for round-the-clock protests in
scenes reminiscent of the 2004 "orange revolution" that brought
Yushchenko to power.


The crisis came after months of mounting tension between
Yushchenko, a strongly pro-West politician, and the coalition
formed after March 2006 parliamentary elections.


Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, the head of the Regions party
and Yushchenko's arch-rival in the "orange revolution," won a
crushing victory in those elections.


Yushchenko accuses Yanukovych's coalition of trying to bolster
its ranks by persuading members of parliament to change sides.


"This way of forming a majority in parliament is not
constitutional and makes the work of parliament illegitimate,"
Yushchenko told lawmakers on Monday, the presidency's press
office said in a statement.


"Society's democratic ideals and values are being put in doubt,"
he said.


The coalition currently controls 250 of the 450 seats in
parliament, and with 50 more could change the constitution to
further weaken the president.


On Saturday, tens of thousands of activists rallied in Kiev in
favour of early elections, while a similar number rallied against
them.


Yushchenko's opponents, emboldened by constitutional reforms last
year that curbed his powers, said the president's threat to call
early elections was unconstitutional.


"The president didn't listen to us. He didn't come to
understand... He should work with parliament, not go against
society," said Petro Symonenko, a Communist party leader in the
ruling coalition, as he stormed out of the talks.


The stand-off reflects deep divisions in Ukraine between the
Russian-speaking industrial east and the Ukrainian-speaking
agricultural west.


The Sevodnya daily, a pro-government newspaper, said the
confrontation between Yushchenko and his political enemies could
lead to a "definitive separation" of the country.


Yushchenko has pushed hard for full integration with the West
since gaining power in 2005, including membership in the NATO
military alliance.


But many Ukrainians believe he has failed to live up to his
promises of a better future and has needlessly antagonized
Ukraine's giant neighbour Russia.


Analysts had said earlier Yushchenko was unlikely to want fresh
elections now because of his low popularity and divisions with
his former "orange revolution" allies.

