

Pakistani opposition leaders hid to avoid arrest ahead of fresh
protests on Tuesday against President Pervez Musharraf's removal
of the country's top judge, party officials said.


Lawyers, Islamists and the parties of former premiers Benazir
Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif all planned rallies to coincide with the
latest legal hearing into charges against suspended Chief Justice
Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.


Military ruler Musharraf has faced the most serious political
crisis of his eight years in power since abruptly removing
Chaudhry on March 9 over claims including that the son of the
judge received unfair promotions.


Police detained dozens of activists of Sharif's Pakistan Muslim
League, its spokesman Siddiqul Farooq said Monday. "Most of our
leaders have gone underground and they will emerge from different
hideouts," he told AFP.


Senior leaders of Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party went into
hiding to avoid arrest, spokesman Farhatullah Babar said. "We
have devised our strategy and we will be there for demonstration
in time," Babar said.


The leader of Pakistan's main coalition of Islamic fundamentalist
parties, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, said late Monday that he had been
placed under house arrest for two days at his residence in
Islamabad.


The coalition, known as the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) or
United Action Front, said its protests would continue.


"We condemn the arrest and we demand the reinstatement of Justice
Chaudhry and the resignation of General Musharraf," senior MMA
leader Liaquat Baloch said.


Lawyers will boycott courts, wear black armbands and gather
outside the Supreme Court in Islamabad to express solidarity with
the top judge, who is due to arrive at 9:30 am (0430 GMT) for the
hearing by a panel of top judges.


"Our protest will be peaceful and we hope the government will not
stop us," senior Pakistan Bar Council official Chaudhry Ramzan
said.


The suspended chief justice has challenged the composition of the
judicial panel and expressed reservations over some of its
members, his consul Malik Qayyum said.


"The case of alleged misconduct will be taken up after these
issues are settled. So far the council has not moved an inch on
the case," he said.


The last time the panel sat, on March 16, police fired rubber
bullets and tear gas at demonstrators in the capital and smashed
up the studios of a private television station.


Authorities have also deployed 4,000 police in the eastern city
of Lahore, which was the scene of further clashes between police
and demonstrators last month.


"We have taken steps to provide security to people and their
property," Lahore police chief Malik Iqbal said.


Opponents say Musharraf suspended Chaudhry to weaken the
judiciary in a bid to remain army chief past 2007, when the
constitution says he is meant to give up the position.


Musharraf is also expected to seek reelection for another five-
year presidential term by the outgoing parliament ahead of
national polls due late this year or early next -- a move that
could also spark legal challenges.

