

South Asian leaders were meeting in India Tuesday for a fresh
attempt at boosting lacklustre trade and cooperation within a
regional body widely viewed as a forum for talk and not action.


Officials said South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation
(SAARC) member states -- who account for nearly 1.5 billion
people or one-fifth of humanity -- badly needed to overcome
mutual suspicions and work harder if they wanted to inject new
momentum into the bloc.


But with progress slow on the main South Asian dispute between
nuclear-armed India and Pakistan, and with each member
preoccupied with its own internal conflicts, few observers
expected any meaningful results to emerge from the two- day
summit which opens later Tuesday in New Delhi.


According to an Indian diplomat, SAARC nations "have realised
that there has been too much talk" in past meetings of the bloc,
set up in 1985 as a collective development platform to do
business with wealthier cousins, such as the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations and the European Union.


"We are at a defining moment in SAARC history," Indian Foreign
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said, saying the summit represented "a
collective opportunity to leapfrog and undertake a quantum jump
for development."


SAARC is made up of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives,
Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka -- or half the world's poor. War-
torn Afghanistan will also be formally inducted into the bloc at
the summit.


Major powers such as China, the European Union, Japan, South
Korea and the United States will be attending as observers, a
sign of the region's potential.


SAARC has also given preliminary approval for Iran to be granted
observer status, something certain to anger Western diplomats.


"The aim is to make SAARC an effective regional organisation,"
Sri Lanka's Foreign Secretary Palitha Kohona told reporters.


"Its potential remains to be realised. One of our objectives will
be to push SAARC along to see that it delivers," he said on the
eve of the summit, themed "Economic and Physical Connectivity".


Iftekar Ahmed Chowdhury, Bangladesh's interim foreign minister,
also lamented the bloc's lack of achievements.


Member states, he said, "have proceeded with circumspection" when
it came to cooperation.


But pushing the free trade agenda will prove an uphill struggle
in a region of seasoned economic protectionists.


A South Asian Free Trade Agreement (SAFTA), which came into force
last year as was presented as crucial to boosting living
standards, is yet to be fully implemented thanks to ongoing
bickering between India and Pakistan.


Intra-regional trade remains mired at five percent of the
countries' total.


On security issues, likely to be feature high on the agenda,
SAARC member states also differ on how to tackle violence across
the region or are preoccupied by overriding domestic issues.


India and Pakistan are more at home trading bitter allegations,
with one side viewing the other as the source of most if not all
evils. Observers, however, will be keeping a close eye on any
bilateral talks.


Nepal's delegation is likely to have its eye on developments at
home, where a new cabinet has been formed to include former
Maoist rebels for the first time as part of a fragile peace
process that ended a decade of civil war.


Bangladesh -- the birthplace of SAARC -- is also in political
limbo, with a military-backed interim government with emergency
powers engaged in a major anti-corruption drive.


Sri Lanka's uncompromising government will be looking for support
to deal with Tamil Tiger rebels in the island's north and east,
where the intensity of Asia's longest-running civil war has
increased in recent months.


And new member Afghanistan, seen by the group as a gateway to
Central Asian markets, remains dogged by its own conflict and
accuses Pakistan of sheltering Taliban rebels.

