

Japanese figure skating stars Miki Ando and Mao Asada, who
finished one-two in the showpiece women's event at the recent
world championships here, are aiming to jump better and better.


While on a weeklong exhibition tour around Japan after leading an
unprecedented all-Asian world championship podium, the rivals and
friends have vowed to polish their trademark jumps.


Ando, 19, the only woman ever to have landed a quadruple in
competition, is raring to succeed in her four-revolution attempt
for the first time since late 2003.


Three years her junior, Asada has been privately practicing a
more difficult kind of quadruple, a loop compared with Ando's
Salchow. But her more immediate goal is to perfect her triple
Axel, a 3.5-revolution jump mastered by only a few women.


"My performance still tends to get close together in competition.
I want to correct it," said Ando, who stands at just
162-centimetre (5.3-feet).


"And I want to land a quadruple jump alright," said the college
student, who finished 15th at the Turin Olympics when she crashed
on a quad attempt.


Asada said: "I'd be happy if I can take in a quadruple jump as
well as a triple Axel-triple toeloop combination.


"I think everybody will come to try and do the same jumps. I want
to do higher- level jumps," added Asada, who was the only woman
who landed a triple Axel at the worlds.


Ando, who landed her first quadruple at the junior Grand Prix
final in 2002, made good a couple of attempts in training but
opted for a triple Salchow in the free skating to win the women's
world title on March 24.


She had seen 16-year-old Kim Yu-Na of South Korea fall twice in
the free skating to squander a slim lead from the short
programme.


Skating last in a 24-strong field, Ando had also thought that her
points margin over Asada was big enough although the younger
Japanese battled back from fifth spot in the short programme to
score a record 133.13 points in the free.


Ando skated steadily to a Mendelssohn violin concerto to triumph
with a total 195.09 points, lifting her first senior medal.


Asada was second with 194.45 and fellow-16-year-old Kim, hit by a
back injury, third with 186.14 in their first senior world
championships.


The Asian surge left defending champion Kimmie Meissner of the
United States, 17, in fourth spot and European champion Carolina
Kostner of Italy sixth.


Ando's Belarusian coach Nikolai Morozov said, "I told her not to
do the quad. Do it next year. With all the marks from the short
programme, she just needed to skate clean."


A next quadruple chance for her will come on April 29 at the
Japan Open, a three-way team competition involving Japan, Europe
and North America.


Asada, in late 2005, became the first woman to land two triple
Axels in a competitive programme.


In her stunning free skating here, she became the first woman to
land a 3.5-revolution jump at the Olympics or the world
championships since compatriot Midori Ito did at the 1992
Albertville Winter Games.


Ito was the one who in 1988 became the first woman to land a
triple Axel in competition, while on her way to win Asia's first
ever world figure skating title next year.


Ando was the fourth Japanese and fifth Asian to win the women's
world title since Ito with Yuka Sato winning in 1994, China's Lu
Chen in 1995 and Shizuka Arakawa in 2004.


Arakawa also became the first Asian to win an Olympic gold when
she upset American Sasha Cohen and Russia's Irina Slutskaya into
second and third spots in Turin.

