

The Bush administration is savoring a key victory in its legal
"war on terror", as the US Supreme Court ruled dozens of
Guantanamo Bay inmates had no right to challenge their detention
in federal court.


Only three of the nine judges on the court said Monday they would
be prepared to examine the case, one short of the number required
for it to be taken up by justices under their rules of procedure.


The petition was filed on behalf of inmates of the fiercely
criticized Guantanamo camp in Cuba, who have little prospect of
facing formal charges, a tribunal or a return to their home
countries.


The White House welcomed the court's announcement. "On first
glance we're very pleased with the decision," said deputy
spokeswoman Dana Perino.


But lawyers for inmates, Democratic opponents of President George
W. Bush and opponents of the administration's legal tactics
reacted with dismay.


The Supreme Court's decision not to hear the case left intact a
ruling by the federal appeals court for the Washington DC Circuit
in February that the inmates had no constitutional right to
challenge their detention before federal courts because they were
not US citizens or on US soil.


That ruling upheld a law passed last year barring designated
"enemy combatants" from challenging their detention in the US
court system.


Justices John Paul Stevens and Anthony Kennedy wrote in a
statement that the court should not hear the appeal because other
legal options for the detainees had not been exhausted.


In a dissent, Justice Stephen Breyer disagreed.


"I believe these questions deserve this court's immediate
attention," he wrote.


"If petitioners are right about the law, immediate review may
avoid an additional year or more of imprisonment. If they are
wrong, our review is nevertheless appropriate to help establish
constitutional boundaries."


The decision was condemned by lawyers for inmates at Guantanamo
Bay.


"It's tremendously disappointing," said David Cynamon, who
represents Kuwaiti detainees.


"It would be my hope that Congress would now recognize that the
ball is back in their court to give the detainees some basic rule
of law here."


Vincent Warren, executive director of the Center for
Constitutional Rights, which represents other detainees, said the
policies of the administration of President George W. Bush on the
issue were a "sham."


"The Supreme Court has once more delayed the resolution of the
fate of these detainees -- three quarters of whom the military
admits it will never charge -- who have languished without any
meaningful way to challenge their detention for more than five
years."


Monday's decision was the latest dramatic legal chapter in a
fiery debate over the treatment of Guantanamo inmates that
brought the "war on terror" into conflict with civil liberties
provisions of the US constitution.


Democratic Senator Christopher Dodd, who is pushing new
legislation that would restore basic rights to detainees said the
Supreme Court decision to decline the appeals was "extremely
regrettable."


"It would have helped restore America's international credibility
with respect to adherence to the rule of law," he said in a
statement.


Bush has designated hundreds of terror suspects as "enemy
combatants" and the United States has held them in Guantanamo for
years without charge pending appearances before military
tribunals.


The Supreme Court ruled in June 2006 that the tribunals were
illegal because they were not authorized by Congress -- an
omission the then Republican- controlled legislature remedied
with legislation passed four months later.


The US government has said it plans to charge around 60 to 80 of
those remaining at the camp, including the alleged mastermind of
the September 11 attacks in 2001, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.


It has said it plans to send a further 80 back home, leaving more
than 200 inmates in legal limbo.


But the remaining detainees held at the US naval base in
Guantanamo, which currently has around 385 inmates, argue they
were not covered by provisions of the Military Commission Act
that barred all suspects from challenging their detention in
civilian courts.

