

A powerful quake hit northeastern Afghanistan on Tuesday, rocking
neighbouring Pakistan and India and sending hundreds of people
running out of their homes across the region.


The 6.2-magnitude quake struck in the Hindu Kush region and was
nearly 200 kilometres (125 miles) underground, the US Geological
Survey said.


There was no immediate word on damage or casualties from the
quake, which hit near the town of Faizabad after 8:00 am (0300
GMT).


Residents of the town, capital of the mountainous and remote
province of Badakshan, said they could see no damage and did not
immediately hear news of casualties.


"Around my house there are many houses made of mud but they are
not destroyed," Badakshan governor Abdul Majid told AFP.


He had no reports of casualties in the city but said it would
take several hours for news to filter in from the outlying areas
of the large province.


"The building was shaking and we came out," said Basanta Lamsal,
a project manager for a branch of the Mission East humanitarian
group in the town who also reported no destruction around him.


"It was strong. It felt like it was about 30 seconds," he said.


In Kabul some 260 kilometres away, hundreds of people ran from
their homes in fear of collapsing buildings. "Everyone in my
neighbourhood rushed out," a resident said. There appeared to be
no damage to the city.


The quake was also felt in the eastern city of Jalalabad, an AFP
reporter in the city said. People fled their homes but there was
no word on damage.


In Pakistan, the quake was felt in the capital Islamabad and the
northwest of the country. There were no immediate reports of
losses.


Northwestern Pakistan was struck by a devastating 7.6-magnitude
earthquake on October 8, 2005 which killed more than 73,000
people in the area.


Tuesday's quake also jolted Indian-administered Kashmir, where
residents dashed outdoors in panic amid fears of a repeat of the
October 2005 quake that killed 1,000 people in the area.


"There was just a moderate jolt, but the entire neighbourhood
rushed out of their homes," said Hajra Begum, a visibly shaken 63
-year-old housewife in Srinagar, the summer capital of Indian
Kashmir.


Officials said there were no immediate reports of casualties or
damage.


Afghanistan is often hit by earthquakes, especially around the
Hindu Kush mountain range that is near the collision of the
Eurasian and Indian tectonic plates, where seismic activity is
high.


In 2002 an 7.6-magnitude quake in the Hindu Kush destroyed
several villages and left more than 1,000 people dead.


The country, which has suffered drought for years, has been
battered by days of heavy spring rains and avalanches, with some
reports saying 80 people were killed over the past weeks.


Up to 25,000 people have been affected and hundreds airlifted to
safety, according to the United Nations.


Bridges have been washed away, rivers have breeched their banks
-- including in Kabul city, houses have destroyed and livestock
killed.


More flooding was anticipated as the snow continues to melt, the
UN has said.


On Monday an 8.0-magnitude quake off the Solomon Islands in the
Pacific Ocean unleashed a tsunami that flattened 13 villages and
killed at least 22 people, leaving scores missing.

