

The Czech government on Monday agreed far-reaching reforms
slashing taxation and public spending, paving the way for a
possible adoption of the single European currency as early as
2012.


"The government has unanimously approved the large reform package
for public finances," Petr Necas, minister for labour and social
affairs, said after talks lasting five hours. "It's about cutting
direct taxation, stopping the explosion in social spending and
reforming the social and fiscal systems."


Details were due to be unveiled at a news conference on Tuesday.
The changes require approval from the country's lower house.


Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek has drafted a sweeping reform
of the current tax system, including the introduction of a lower
15 percent tax rate on all earners, a rise in the reduced VAT
rate from 5.0 percent to 9.0 percent and a cut in the basic VAT
rate from the current 19.0 percent.


A series of public spending cuts, mainly affecting social
security payments and the health sector are expected to curb the
government's overall budget and borrowing, according to the
business press.


Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek's government has no guaranteed
majority in the lower house having only been confirmed in power
in January thanks to two leftwing defectors.


The main opposition party, the Social Democrats, and the
Communists are set to oppose the expected tax giveaway and
spending cuts package which, according to them, favours the rich
and penalises the poor.


Lawmakers are likely to debate the package in June, according to
Topolanek, whose Civic Democrat part won last June's elections on
a radical tax cut and reform platform.


The coalition government has pledged to immediately resign if it
fails to push through its key reform measures.


Many economic analysts have welcomed the expected changes.


"Although the fiscal reforms have not yet been made fully public,
it appears that we are finally taking the right path," said David
Marek, an analyst with Prague-based brokerage Patria Finance.


"It is mainly the reform of obligatory spending in the social
spending sphere which will be a crucial element," he added.

