

Fifteen British sailors began their 11th day in captivity in Iran
Tuesday as both London and Tehran toned down their rhetoric amid
small signs of progress in negotiating their freedom.


Britain gained a glimmer of hope in its efforts to free the eight
Royal Navy sailors and seven marines after a top Iranian official
said the standoff could be resolved without a trial.


Iran also said that because of an unspecified shift in London's
stance, it was holding back from airing confessions it had
obtained from the 15, who have been held since Iranian forces
seized them in the Gulf on March 23.


Ali Larijani, the head of the supreme national security council,
on Monday said that there was "no need" to put the group on
trial, describing the stand-off as "quite resolvable."


"Definitely our priority is to solve the problem through proper
diplomatic channels. We are not interested in having this issue
get further complicated," Larijani told Britain's Channel Four
television.


"We definitely believe this issue can be resolved. And there is
no need for any trial."


He also criticised the European Union, claiming it had "started
to condemn Iran without knowing the facts" over the group's
capture.


A British foreign ministry spokeswoman told AFP Monday that
London shared Larijani's preference for "early bilateral
discussions."


Also on Monday UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said that the
"rhetoric should be toned down."


Ban called for the release of the 14 men and one woman, and told
reporters in New York that he had appealed to Iranian Foreign
Minister Manouchehr Mottaki to ensure that "this issue should be
resolved as soon as possible through political, diplomatic
consultations."


Hours before Larijani's comments, Iranian state television said
that all 15 sailors had given "frank confessions," admitting to
illegally entering its waters, and broadcast new pictures of the
group apparently admitting to their error.


Britain maintains that the group were carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


The ISNA news agency, without citing its sources, spoke Monday of
a "change" in the British attitude towards resolving the stand-
off, but the reports did not give any details.


The detention of the 15 has further poisoned relations between
Iran and the West at a time of mounting international impatience
with the Islamic republic over its refusal to rein in its
contested nuclear programme.


During its report, state television also showed very brief images
of all 15 Britons talking to camera individually or in pairs,
though the sound was not broadcast and it was not clear if these
were their "confessions."


"The Iranians know our position. They know that stage-managed TV
appearances aren't going to affect that position. They know that
we have strong international support," Prime Minister Tony
Blair's official spokesman said.


He added that "a lot is going on behind the scenes" to secure
their release.


Meanwhile, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was set to give
his fifth solo press conference in Tehran on Tuesday, amid
indications that he could announce important news on Iran's
nuclear programme, which has also brought international pressure
on the Islamic republic.


And a top Iranian atomic official said on Tuesday that a Russian
delegation will visit Tehran in the coming days to resolve
problems holding up the completion of Iran's first nuclear power
plant.


The completion of the Bushehr nuclear power plant being built by
Russia and the delivery of nuclear fuel -- scheduled for this
year -- have been repeatedly delayed amid mutual accusations of
financial problems.


But some analysts link Russia's unwillingness to complete Bushehr
to international pressure on Tehran to halt its uranium
enrichment operations as demanded by the UN Security Council.


"In the next two or three days the Russians will come to Tehran
to sign an agreement to solve the financial problems of
Atomstroiexport," the Russian firm building the plant, said
Gholam Reza Aghazadeh, the head of Iran's atomic energy
organisation.


"There is no doubt that the matter of Bushehr has been
politicised but the talk of them not delivering is not true," he
told reporters.


"The Russians have told us that since their company does not have
money 'you need to help us financially'. A framework has been
found to solve their financial problems," he said.

