

At least 20 people were killed in the tsunami and huge earthquake
that devastated the western Solomon Islands and many more are
missing, a top police officer said Tuesday.


"We are now of a view that here are about 20 confirmed dead
overall, but I am rather fearful that the number will increase
today as we get around the various locations," said Solomons
Deputy Police Commissioner Peter Marshall.


He said "many more" people were missing following Monday's double
disaster, in which entire villages were destroyed after an
8.0-magnitude quake sparked a tidal wave that hit towns in the
country's Western Province.


Sky news in Australia reported that hundreds of people were
missing after the town of Gizo was pounded first by the
earthquake, which had its epicentre just 40 kilometers (25 miles)
away, and then by the wave.


"The main number of the deaths were in Gizo, where a number of
villages were affected," he said, referring to a seaside
community of around 20,000 people which is popular with scuba
divers.


Separately, police spokesman Mick Spinks said that 13 villages
had been destroyed in the disaster.


"Virtually all the houses have been destroyed" in the affected
villages, he said.


Authorities had late Monday estimated the death toll to be at
least 15, but said it was likely to rise as official and aid
workers reach the remote disaster area to asess the extent of the
damage.


"The priority this morning is to use aircraft to get around all
the islands in the Western Province to see what the level of the
problem is," Marshall said, adding that tough terrain and poor
communications were hampering efforts to assess the damage and
loss of life.


Aircraft and boats with aid workers and officers on board were
racing to the area to estimate damage and bring help to
survivors, with the premier of Western Province saying there were
up to 4,000 people camping out in Gizo following the disaster.


"It's been a long night for a lot of people, in the area of Gizo
in particular, there is no electricity and there have been a lot
of tremors overnight and people have had to move to higher
ground," Marshall said.


The US Geological Survey recorded at least 10 quakes measuring
between 5.0 and 6.2 in magnitude overnight.

