

A huge earthquake and tsunami that pounded the Solomon Islands
left at least 24 people dead and more than 5,400 terrified
survivors homeless, disaster chiefs told AFP on Tuesday.


But while the death toll will rise and the full extent of the
disaster has yet to be established, an official said early
indications were that the number of dead may not increase
dramatically.


"The death toll from unconfirmed reports has now risen to 24,
with 916 houses destroyed and 5,409 people affected by the
disaster," the Office of Emergency Management's deputy director,
Janet Batee, told AFP.


"The missing are of great concern to us but we have no verified
figures for them yet," she added after police said that 13
villages had been destroyed and many people were unaccounted for.


Batee said most of the dead and displaced were around the seaside
diving town of Gizo, which witnesses said was pounded by waves up
to five meters (16.5 feet) high


But the official stressed that difficult communications and tough
terrain meant that disaster assessment teams had not yet reached
outlying areas such as the island of Choiseul to establish the
extent of the devastation.


The official was however cautiously optimistic that the human
casualties of the double disaster would not reach into the
hundreds.


"It is not likely going to be as many as hundreds dead because
luckily (the tsunami) happened during the day and many people
took appropriate measures when they felt the quake," Batee said.


"The number of deaths may not be rising very high," she said.


Solomons Deputy Police Commissioner Peter Marshall said earlier
he feared the toll would rise Tuesday as rescuers arrived in the
stricken west of the island nation.


"I am rather fearful that the number will increase today as we
get around the various locations," he said.


He said "many more" people were missing following Monday's
disaster, in which entire villages were destroyed after an
8.0-magnitude quake sparked a tidal wave that hit towns in the
country's Western Province.


Australian media reported that hundreds of people could be
missing after the town of Gizo was pounded first by the
earthquake, which had its epicentre just 40 kilometers (25 miles)
away, and then by the wave.


Gizo is a seaside community of around 20,000 people which is
popular with scuba divers.

