

Taiwan's opposition leader and presidential hopeful Ma Ying-jeou
went on trial Tuesday for corruption in a case that could shape
the next election.


Ma, former chairman of the main opposition Kuomintang (KMT)
party, arrived at Taipei District Court for the first hearing to
the cheers of supporters.


"I will face the trial calmly because I have faith in my
innocence and an expectation as to the fairness of the court," Ma
told reporters.


A former justice minister when he tackled corruption, Ma was
indicted in February for allegedly misusing more than 11 million
Taiwan dollars (333,330 US) in expense accounts during his time
as Taipei mayor from 1998 to 2006.


He resigned as KMT chairman after the indictment but immediately
announced his bid for the 2008 presidential elections, a move
that unexpectedly boosted his popularity.


Ma has denied the graft charges, insisting he acted the same as
some 6,500 other government chiefs entitled to special expenses.


If convicted, he faces a minimum of seven years in prison, but
prosecutors have asked the judges for leniency on the grounds
that Ma has donated some 15 million dollars to charity during the
investigation.


Last year Ma admitted one of his aides had swapped receipts in
claiming his mayoral expenses for 2003-2006.


He has apologised for the "serious administrative flaws," but
denied prior knowledge of the aide's practice or any attempt at
embezzlement.


Ma has made clear his determination to run for the presidency
even if he is found guilty by the district court.


Political analysts say no one else from the KMT has the kind of
clout and popularity that he enjoys, and opinion polls make him
the front-runner for the 2008 vote ahead of the declared ruling
party candidates.


However they warn that a guilty verdict could fatally undermine
his appeal and wreck the KMT's chances of winning the
presidential election.


President Chen Shui-bian's wife Wu Shu-chen is already on trial
accused of embezzling 14.8 million dollars of state funds.

