

US House speaker Nancy Pelosi is due in Syria on Tuesday,
becoming the highest- ranking American politician to visit in
years, on a mission slammed by the White House as undermining US
policy.


The leading Democrat said in Beirut on Monday that her planned
visit to Damascus was important, despite the anger it has stirred
in the administration of President George W. Bush.


"We think it's a good idea, that's why we're doing it," Pelosi
told journalists before leaving for Amman, from where she was to
fly to Damascus.


"Our trip to Syria is one that is ... also important to the Iraq
Study Group which encourages such diplomacy and engagement," she
said in reference to a bipartisan US group that last year
recommended engaging US foes Syria and Iran in a bid to calm war-
torn Iraq.


"The purpose of this trip is a part of our responsibility for the
national security of the United States," Pelosi said.


While the visit has been welcomed in Damascus, which has been
keen to renew contacts with Washington, the White House says she
risks undermining US-led efforts to isolate Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.


"It sends the wrong message to have high-level US officials going
there to have photo opportunities that Assad then exploits,"
spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters in Washington.


"We discourage such trips by high-ranking US officials."


The United States accuses Syria of harbouring terror
organisations and backing insurgents in Iraq and says Pelosi's
trip undermines US policy.


But Pelosi, a strident Bush opponent, said that three Republican
politicians were in Damascus on Sunday and met Assad -- and "I
didn't hear the White House speaking about that."


During her visit at the head of a delegation, "we will be talking
about the overarching issue, the fight against terrorism and the
role that Syria can play to help or to hinder that role," Pelosi
said in Lebanon.


The US delegation will also discuss "the role of Syria in
supporting Hamas and Hezbollah... We think it's a good idea to
establish the facts to hopefully build some confidence between
us. We have no illusions but we have great hope."


Washington accuses Damascus of supporting the ruling Palestinian
Islamist movement Hamas and Lebanese Shiite militant group
Hezbollah, which it labels terrorist movements.


A source at the US embassy in Damascus told AFP that Pelosi and
Assad would discuss "issues linked to Syrian-American and
regional issues."


Syria's embassy in Washington has hailed Pelosi's proposed trip
as "momentous" and expressed hopes it may improve strained
relations.


"Mrs Pelosi is welcome in Damascus. There are great hopes of a
rebalancing of US policy in the region," Syria's official Tishrin
newspaper said on Monday. The United States "knows Syria is open
to dialogue with the Americans."


Elias Murad, editor of the ruling party's daily newspaper Al-
Baath, called the visit "recognition of Syria's role. It shows
there is more than one point of view on dealing with Damascus."

