

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Monday she was open
to direct talks with Iran if it froze its sensitive uranium
enrichment work.


"If Iran suspends its enrichment and reprocessing activities and
we go to six- party talks ... you would never rule out that it
might be useful at some point to have a bilateral encounter that
moves forward those (talks)," Rice said.


"But what you don't want to do, I think, is make this US-Iranian
negotiations over the Iranian nuclear weapon," she said.


Rice has previously said she was open to talks on Iran that would
include major negotiators Russia, China, Britain, France and
Germany, but has until now excluded the possibility of bilateral
talks with Iran.


The UN Security Council resolution has imposed sanctions on Iran
for failing to suspends uranium enrichment, which makes fuel for
civilian nuclear reactors but also produces material for atomic
bombs.


But Iran continues to defy the international community and has
vowed to increase its enrichment capacity, arguing that its
nuclear program is strictly for civilian energy purposes.


Iran also says it will not halt enrichment as a precondition to
talks on its nuclear program.


The United States and Iran have had no diplomatic relations since
Washington severed ties in 1980 in the wake of the seizure of its
embassy in Tehran by Islamist students.


A rare meeting between representatives of Iran and the United
States took place last month at conference of Iraq's neighbors in
Baghdad, when US ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad challenged
his Iranian counterpart over Tehran's alleged interference in
Iraq.


Tehran rejected accusations that it was supplying arms and other
support to Iraqi insurgents, while Khalilzad described the
exchange as not "substantive" and lasting only a few minutes.


A new Iraq conference on the ministerial level is being prepared
-- though no final date has been set -- at which Rice could have
the opportunity to speak with her Iranian counterpart Manouchehr
Mottaki.

