

Mohammed Ali Tipu, from Pakistan's conservative tribal northwest,
met his American wife 21 years his senior over the Internet. Now
it is only cyberspace that is keeping their love alive.


The pair are sustaining their marriage via emails after Tipu's
bride Ann Slayton had to leave his remote home town and return to
North Carolina to be with her ailing mother


"Each day separated from Ali, my husband, is hell," Slayton, 49,
told AFP in an email. "I miss Ali each and every day with such
sadness, words cannot express my sadness. I miss him very much."


Tipu, 28, a newspaper page designer, said he was among the first
Internet users in Kohat, a dusty gateway town to Pakistan's
lawless tribal areas bordering Afghanistan.


His town lies on the route that security forces say is criss-
crossed by Al-Qaeda and other Islamic militants as they move
between remote safe hideouts in the region.


It was at the beginning of 2003, when Pakistani forces were
battling Al-Qaeda militants in the Waziristan tribal belt, that
Tipu and Slayton "met" in an Internet chatroom and struck up a
friendship.


"I was inspired to use the Internet after watching an Indian
movie where the hero finds a lover the same way," said Tipu,
sitting cross-legged in his small home with open drains running
outside the boundary walls.


First, though, he needed to have a telephone line installed at
his house.


"I started visiting chatrooms, my special interest was Islam. One
day I saw the profile of Ann and I felt attracted to her smiling
face," he said.


The Christian American grocery shop owner joined the chatroom
because she was interested in other religions. She was "very
charming" and keen to learn about Islam, said Tipu, who prays
five times a day but says he is not a fundamentalist.


"It was not love at first sight. It developed slowly over two
years and then we both were immersed in it," Tipu said.


Slayton started going to a mosque in the US as they grew closer.


Then fired by passion for her Internet lover, Slayton journeyed
to what was for her the unseen land of Pakistan in the fall of
2005. She came from North Carolina to Peshawar via Washington,
London and Dubai.


"At the airport I was there to receive her. I was in a state of
disbelief, I thought a miracle had happened," Tipu recalled.


"Ann came out of the airport and I was onto her in a flash. It
was as if we had known each other for centuries. She threw her
arms open when I walked towards her and I grabbed her and hugged
her forcefully.


"She cried on my shoulder and tears rolled down my face too. It
was a meeting of two lost souls who were meant for each other and
separated only by man-made boundaries."


From Peshawar the two drove 80 kilometres (50 miles) to Tipu's
home located in the middle of bustling Kohat, where women stay
indoors or the few that are seen outside are covered in all
enveloping burqa.


"My area is very conservative and there are widespread anti-
American sentiments. I was worried about her," Tipu said.


The first thing he did was to take Slayton to the local mosque
where, in the presence of a mullah, the woman from North Carolina
formally embraced Islam.


The next day, they were married in a simple ceremony in the
mosque and she fully covered herself according to local
tradition.


Tipu said that far from being hostile, the local mullahs were
filled with joy that "I had brought an American woman to Pakistan
and converted her to Islam. It was a very proud feeling for
them".


Tipu said his mother and sisters, who cannot speak English, would
often sit with Ann and communicate with hand gestures. "They gave
her the Islamic name of Fatima," said Tipu. "They got along very
well with Ann."


The couple had a brief honeymoon in the nearby hill resort of
Hangu, a hub of frequent Muslim sectarian violence where nearly
40 people were killed in a suicide bombing and subsequent clashes
in early 2006.


From Hangu the couple went to the eastern cultural centre of
Lahore.


"We returned to Kohat and Ann said she was really ecstatic to
discover the diversity and beauty of Pakistan," Tipu recalled.


But their marital bliss was short-lived.


While the mullahs threw their support behind the couple, a
distant relative of Tipu was unhappy because he thought Tipu had
betrayed the customs of his clan by marrying a foreigner.


The couple received threats and police intervened to provide
security to them.


Meanwhile Ann's mother was sending messages to her daughter to
come back home because she had fallen ill and was lonely -- as
well as being worried about her safety. Ann bowed to the pressure
and left after just one month.


She said she is determined that her time apart from her husband
will be as brief as possible, and added that she is not afraid of
living in Pakistan.


"I look forward to returning to Pakistan one day soon, inshallah
(God willing). I loved the country, the culture and the Pakistani
people. It was a wonderful experience."


She has applied for Tipu's immigration papers but the process may
take several years -- if permission is granted under tight US
immigration rules.


But Ann remains optimistic.


"Inshallah all will go well as it has so far," she wrote.

