

The White House warned Monday that US House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi's looming visit to Damascus would only undermine US-led
efforts to isolate Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.


"It alleviates the pressure that we are trying to put on them to
change their behavior," spokeswoman Dana Perino said as the top
lawmaker was poised to become the most senior US official to
visit Damascus in years.


Perino told reporters that Washington had learned from then-US
Secretary of State Colin Powell's trips in April 2002 and May
2003 that such visits yield nothing and only give Syria's leaders
a public relations boost.


"Nothing has changed in Syria's behavior over the years when
high-ranking US officials go to see them. We sent Secretary
Powell early on. The behavior doesn't change," she said, adding
that Assad only "exploits" such visits.


"The more US officials go there and try to talk with him, the
less he feels the pressure to change. And so we haven't seen
change in many years," the spokeswoman said.


At the US State Department, spokesman Sean McCormack urged Pelosi
to deliver a "strong message to the Syrian government to change
its behavior" and offered to have US diplomats in Damascus help
her congressional delegation.


"We are assisting her congressional delegation as we have others
in Syria. We are ready to attend meetings, if they want us to,
with the delegation," McCormack told reporters.


The United States accuses Syria of fuelling unrest in Lebanon to
undermine the government of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora and of
letting foreign fighters slip through its border on their way to
target US-led forces in Iraq.


Washington has also branded Damascus a "state sponsor of
terrorism" for supporting the ruling Palestinian Islamist
movement Hamas and Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah,
which it labels terrorist movements.


"We believe that Syria knows exactly what it needs to do," said
Perino.    "We ask that people not go on these trips. But, of
course, at the end of the day, they have to make their own
decisions."


Pelosi, who was expected to arrive in Syria on Tuesday, said
during a stop in Lebanon that her trip aimed "to hopefully build
some confidence between us. We have no illusions, but we have
great hope."


The speaker, who is just behind Vice President Dick Cheney in
line for the presidency, noted that a heavyweight bipartisan
commission said last year that engaging Iran and Syria was
critical to pacifying war-torn Iraq.


Meanwhile, Perino defended herself against charges that she
assailed Pelosi's planned visit last week on the very day that
some of US President George W. Bush's Republican allies were in
Damascus meeting with Assad.


"We discouraged it (the Republican visit). When I was asked last
week I was only asked about Speaker Pelosi," she said.


Pelosi was to meet with Assad on Tuesday, informed sources said
last week. A US diplomatic source in Damascus said Pelosi, a
tough Bush critic, would arrive in Damascus on Tuesday and leave
the following day.

