

Baseball's 2007 season swung into full gear Monday as Alex
Rodriguez went long, Cleveland showed Chicago how the tough the
AL Central is and the Toronto and Detroit played an extra-inning
thriller.


New York Yankees slugger Rodriguez turned jeers into cheers after
committing an error and starting 0-for-3.


Rodriguez singled, scored the go-ahead run and added a two-run
homer as the Yankees posted their 10th consecutive win in a home
opener with a 9-5 victory over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.


Mariano Rivera, who has been at each of the 10 home openers,
struck out the side in the ninth.


The start of the fourth season with New York began in shaky
fashion for Rodriguez, who misjudged a foul ball in the first
inning and struck out with two runners on base in the bottom of
the inning.


"It's good to get opening day out of the way," Rodriguez said. "I
started out like a moron there. I felt goofy about it."


"The foul pop was unfortunate because that's a catcher's ball,"
Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "The ball came back and (Jorge
Posada) gave up on it a little too soon and Alex was playing
back."


Rodriguez heard his share of boos from the crowd leading off the
seventh, but turned those to cheers with a single to left-centre
off rookie Brian Stokes (0-1). He then stole second and scored on
a single to right field by Jason Giambi.


Bobby Abreu hit an RBI single in the eighth inning and Rodriguez
added a two-run homer off Juan Salas.


Trot Nixon had three hits and scored three times as the Cleveland
Indians slugged their way to a 12-5 victory over the Chicago
White Sox in the season opener for the American League Central
Division rivals.


After spending his entire 10-year career with Boston, Nixon
signed a one-year contract with Cleveland.


Penciled in second in the order behind Grady Sizemore, Nixon
accounted for all of his hits and runs in the first three innings
as the Indians grabbed an 11-2 lead.


Victor Martinez and Jhonny Peralta knocked in three runs apiece
for the Indians, who were a disappointment last season when they
finished with a 78-84 record.


In Detroit, the Toronto Blue Jays scored early against Jeremy
Bonderman and late against Fernando Rodney. It was enough to
spoil the Detroit Tigers' home opener.


Troy Glaus delivered the go-ahead RBI single off Rodney in the
10th inning as the Blue Jays posted a 5-3 victory over the Tigers
before a crowd of 44,297 at Comerica Park.


The defending American League champions had rallied from a 3-0
deficit to tie the game before the Blue Jays scored twice against
Rodney in the 10th.


Meanwhile, Toronto's bullpen combined to pitch four scoreless
innings after starter Roy Halladay failed to hold a 3-0 lead.


Cam Janssen was especially effective with 2 1/3 hitless innings.
Jason Frasor (1-0) recorded two outs for the win and B.J. Ryan
pitched the 10th for his first save.

