

South Korean newspapers Tuesday broadly welcomed a major free
trade agreement reached Monday with the United States, with
several terming it a historic development.


Conservative newspapers even heaped rare praise on President Moo-
Hyun, who pushed hard for the deal despite opposition from left-
leaning political allies and numerous street protests.


Chosun Ilbo, the largest-circulation daily, said South Korea,
"which is caught between the world's second largest economy Japan
and up-and-coming China, has an opportunity for a leap forward
through the FTA."


In an editorial, it also noted a downside, with about 85,000 jobs
to disappear in the short term, according to analysts. The
newspaper urged the government to come up with realistic measures
to support vulnerable sectors.


Hankook daily's editorial welcomed the successful conclusion of
the talks but urged the government to draw up more specific steps
to help those affected, saying damage to local industry might be
greater than expected.


"Now Korea has chosen to compete as a lion in the wild rather
than remaining as a rabbit in a fenced yard," said a JoongAng
Daily editorial of the market- opening measures, adding that the
agreement provides a new growth engine for the economy.


It termed the deal one of Roh's major achievements, along with
breaking corrupt bonds between politicians and entrepreneurs,
making powerful government bodies independent and abandoning
authoritarianism.


The Korea Herald said the agreement would create winners and
losers in South Korea "but gains will be far greater than losses
for a nation that depends on external trade for its survival."


Benefits would not only be economic and the deal would help
consolidate the Korean-US security alliance, it said.


A Hankyoreh editorial was more downbeat, saying the FTA would
help big exporters but put pressure on small- and medium-sized
businesses, including pharmaceutical firms, as well as people in
low-income brackets such as farmers.


"It can hardly be called an ideal policy to sacrifice other
industries for the sake of some selected industries. This kind of
a free trade agreement will only create a mass of jobless
people."

