

Australian Guantanamo Bay detainee David Hicks feared he would be
shot unless he cooperated with US interrogators in Afghanistan,
according to a sworn statement presented to a British court.


In the affidavit, Hicks said he was slapped, kicked, punched and
spat on after being arrested by coalition forces in the Central
Asian country in 2001.


Hicks also said that he had heard other detainees screaming in
pain, had seen evidence of beatings on fellow prisoners and had
had a shotgun trained on him during questioning.


"I realised that if I did not cooperate with US interrogators, I
might be shot," he said in the document handed to British
authorities and obtained by the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation (ABC).


The affidavit detailed the allegations of mistreatment as part of
his unsuccessful bid to obtain British citizenship last year.


Hicks said he was twice taken off a US warship, flown to an
unknown location and physically abused by US personnel for a
total of 16 hours. Two US investigations said that claim was
unfounded.


The 31-year-old, who spent more than five years in Guantanamo Bay
without charge, last week pleaded guilty to providing material
support for terrorism.


As part of the plea bargain which will see him serve another nine
months in an Australian jail, Hicks has agreed to withdraw all
claims of mistreatment during his time at Guantanamo Bay.


But in the affidavit he said he felt at risk of physical abuse
and that he had seen one prisoner set upon by dogs and another
have his head slammed into concrete until he was unconscious.


In the document, Hicks said that by early 2003 he "felt that I
had to ensure that whatever I did pleased the interrogators to
keep from being physically abused, placed in isolation and
remaining at Guantanamo for the rest of my life", ABC reported
late Monday.


Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson, former chief of staff to former US
Secretary of State Colin Powell, said his claims were credible.


"I know this kind of abuse happened," he told ABC. "I've talked
to people who participated in it -- CIA, military and
contractor."


Wilkerson said military officers had told him the interrogations
at Guantanamo Bay had revealed "virtually nothing" of useful
intelligence.


"And that is just damning," he said.


Under the plea deal negotiated with the US military commission,
Hicks agreed not to speak to the media for a year.


His father, Terry Hicks, has claimed that the Australian
government has also asked him not to talk about his son's
experience at Guantanamo.


"This is Big Brother, and because the Americans and the
Australian government coalesce on David's charges, at this point
in time we're ruled by them," Hicks told the Australian
newspaper.


"If David tells us something, we can't pass it on. But I could
still talk about the signing of his charges."


Canberra has vehemently denied placing a gag order on the Hicks
family.


"It certainly wasn't asked for by us," Attorney General Philip
Ruddock told ABC Radio.

