

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming praised his patched-up side
after a commanding nine-wicket win over Bangladesh opened up the
path to the World Cup semi-finals.


The Black Caps, who have already lost strike bowler Daryl Tuffey
and opening batsman Lou Vincent to injury during the course of
the tournament, saw seamers Michael Mason and James Franklin
forced to leave the field at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


Mason had a leg injury while Franklin suffered a migraine.


"The bowling on a good batting track like that was a great
effort," said Fleming who hit a century as New Zealand eased to a
victory which kept up their 100-percent record in the
competition.


"We lost two bowlers and to get them out for 174 was a great
effort. It was very impressive. The players who have been in form
continue to be in form."


Scott Styris collected four wickets, Jacob Oram three with Shane
Bond finishing with 2-15 off 10 overs.


"Shane gets wickets when he comes back on, Scotty and Jacob also
bowled well. It's all working well for us at the moment.


"When we batted it was nice to be able to put the hammer down and
think about the run rates. We could capitalise on our strong
position."


Bond, who was named man of the match, said he was enjoying the
challenge of pitting his pace against the slow Caribbean pitches.


"Things are going well for us at the moment. The challenge will
be to keep it going until the business-end of the tournament,"
said the former policeman.


"The wickets are different every time you turn up so it's a
question of adjusting every time and using your variations. The
other guys also do a good holding job which makes my work easier.


"Guys like Shaun Pollock and Glenn McGrath are the ones you
strive for and even though I'm a quick bowler, on these kind of
wickets, I still need to put the ball in the right areas and I've
managed to that so far."


Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar admitted that his side's meagre
total was never going to be enough.


"If we got to 240-250 it would have been a good match," said
Bashar.


"It was a good batting track but we didn't use it."

