

The nuclear-armed North Korean regime could unravel after the
death of dictator Kim Jong-Il, says a US expert who has written
several books on the country and studied the famine there.


Marcus Noland of the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, a Washington think tank, admitted that many experts
had "historically underestimated the resilience" of the North
Korean regime since the iron-fisted rule of Kim's father Kim Il-
Sung.


Aside from the tight internal controls, he said, the hardline
communist rulers remained in power because neighbors China and
South Korea disallowed organized insurgencies on their
territories against Pyongyang.


"So in some ways they are in a pretty good situation now," he
said.


"But that said, this regime is an anachronism and it is hard for
me to see this government lasting beyond the natural life of Kim
Jong-Il," Noland said at the launching of a new book "Famine in
North Korea: Markets, Aid and Reform" he coauthored with Stephen
Haggard, an Asian expert from University of California.


Noland said he realized that many people had predicted the same
scenario for Kim Il-Sung when the communist states of Eastern
Europe began to unravel more than a decade ago "but it is hard
for me to see this type of regime persisting that much longer."


He indicated that the death of the junior Kim, who is 65 by
official accounts but widely believed to be 66, could set the
stage for reunification with South Korea.


"And then what happens (after Kim's death)? Whether you have some
sort of a non Kim Jong-Il North Korean state or it is just a
minor transition into Korean unification, in fact, is an
interesting question," he said.


Noland's study of the famine that killed up to one million North
Koreans in the late 1990s examined the origins and aftermath of
the crisis and the regime's response to outside aid and the
effect of its current polices on the country's economic future.


He said as a result of the famine, the average seven-year-old boy
in North Korea was 20 percent shorter and 40 percent lighter than
his counterpart in the South -- a consequence that eclipsed even
the reported brutal Japanese occupation of Korea.


"Ironically, for all his credentials as an anti-Japanese fighter,
the Kim family seem to have reduced the population of North Korea
literally to smaller than they were under Japanese occupation,"
Noland said.


More than a decade after the famine, North Korea is still
grappling with a food shortage even as it pursues a nuclear
weapons program that the international community is trying to
disband.


In March, Pyongyang made an abrupt about-face and asked the World
Food Program, a UN agency, to increase its aid after cutting back
a decade-long food assistance program at the end of 2005.


Pyongyang told WFP Asian regional director Tony Banbury recently
that there was a food shortfall of one million tonnes -- meaning
that up to one-third of the nation's 23 million people will
require food assistance until this year's harvest comes in.


Noland said differences in political interests among donor
countries have undermined international effectiveness in reigning
in North Korea.


"As a consequence, we have to understand that it is highly
unlikely that we are going to strangle North Korea and bring
about regime change," he said.


"If the United States and Japan attempt to do that, it is quite
simple for South Korea and China to offset it by increasing their
aid -- we document this in this book," Noland said.


In fact, Haggard said that South Korea, which discontinued its
food and fertilizer aid program to the North when its blasted a
nuclear weapons test last year, "is quite eager to get back in."


"The bottom line is we really have no choice but to engage -- in
effect this is a situation created by the fact that the world
community cares more about North Koreans than the North Korean
government does," Noland said.

