

Sino-Australian ties are at their warmest in years, benefiting
from soaring commerce that should bring the sides closer if a
planned free trade pact is signed, Foreign Minister Alexander
Downer said.


"For us it's a very beneficial economic relationship and in terms
of security actually we appreciate some of the things China has
done, such as the role it has played in six-party talks on North
Korea," Downer told AFP in an interview late Monday.


Downer, who arrived in China Monday as part of four-day tour that
also includes Mongolia, met first with Shanghai officials and the
business community and heads to Beijing on Tuesday.


Talks are expected to focus on key strategic issues including
China's role in resolving the North Korean nuclear stand-off and
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders' summit in
Sydney later this year.


Downer described ties with China as "probably" being at their
warmest in years, spurred on by an increasingly strong trading
relationship.


"It's seen in Australia as a great thing that our exports to
China are booming as they are and in which China brings in cheap
and increasingly good-quality manufactured products."


Also on the table for discussion during his visit is the Sino-
Australian free trade pact, which Downer said was moving ahead.


Talks have progressed slowly, held up in part because China is
seeking freer trade in goods while Australia is aiming for the
negotiations to liberalise services, a sensitive issue for
Beijing.


Downer said that China was worried about agriculture and
services, while Australia was concerned about passenger motor
vehicles, textiles, clothing and the footwear industry.


He said it was unclear whether the agreed deadline for the
bilateral trading arrangement would be met by April 2008.


"That's the target they've set, we'll just have to wait and see."


Meanwhile a nuclear agreement that went into effect in February
clearing the way for the export of uranium to feed Beijing's
giant atomic energy needs was expected to further ramp up trade,
Downer said.


"I would expect our uranium sales to China to grow very
substantially... and this to be quite a lucrative area of trade,"
Downer said.


Australia, which has the world's largest known reserves of
uranium, calculates it can earn some 250 million Australian
dollars (187 million US dollars) a year from the arrangement.


He said that Australian companies were now free to negotiate with
their Chinese counterparts, but no deals had yet been announced.


On security, Downer said that a security agreement reached
between Canberra and Tokyo in mid-March that seeks to boost
cooperation in peacekeeping, emergencies, and counter-terrorism,
was not aimed at containing China.


"This is not directed at China," he said. "So it's not a big
issue in our relationship with China.


"Their line is that they are interested in transparency and we
have given them transparency.


"We are entitled to have a good and strong relationship with
China and we are entitled to have a good and strong relationship
with Japan, without either of them tut-tutting us for having a
good relationship with either of them."


The signing was officially pacifist Japan's first such deal with
the exception of its alliance with the United States.


Australia and Japan have played down concerns that the pact was
meant to contain China, which is rapidly expanding its military
spending.


Downer will travel to Mongolia on Wednesday, where he will meet
with leaders as part of efforts to promote Australia's role in
development there and further promote business ties, especially
in mining.


He will return to Beijing for talks with Chinese Foreign Minister
Li Zhaoxing on Thursday.

