

The Philippine Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered police to release
a leftist lawmaker and former communist rebel leader arrested for
allegedly ordering the murder of 15 people in the 1980s.


Justices ruled that House of Representatives member Satur Ocampo
could go free after posting a cash bond of 100,000 pesos (2,067
dollars), court spokesman Midas Marquez said.


"Murder is a capital offence and if the court decides to grant a
bail it means the evidence is weak against the accused," Ocampo
said. "I am positive the case will be dismissed eventually."


Ocampo, of the left-leaning Bayan Muna (Nation First) political
party, was arrested earlier this month.


He had briefly gone into hiding after police named him, Communist
Party of the Philippines (CPP) founder Jose Maria Sison and CPP
political wing leader Luis Jalandoni as among dozens of communist
rebel leaders wanted for murder.


They were indicted on 15 counts of murder allegedly committed
during a purge of suspected "spies and counter-revolutionaries"
within the ranks of the CPP and its armed wing, the New People's
Army (NPA), between 1985 and 1991.


Sison and Jalandoni are in self-imposed exile in the Netherlands.


The remains of the 15 victims were among 67 bodies exhumed by
forensic investigators from the NPA's so-called "killing fields"
on the central Philippine island of Leyte on August 26, 2006.


The three have denied any involvement.


Ocampo had earlier filed a petition with the Supreme Court asking
it to intervene in the case and overturn the charge, saying there
was no basis to arrest him.


He said he was behind bars under the dictatorship of former
strongman Ferdinand Marcos when the killings occurred.


Ocampo had also argued that he was granted amnesty by two
previous presidents and had actually won his seat in Congress,
meaning that there was no pending case against him.


Ocampo is seeking re-election as a representative for Bayan Muna,
a left-leaning organisation highly critical of the government
which the military has claimed is a front for the NPA.

