

Japan's cabinet on Tuesday approved a free-trade deal with
Thailand that the kingdom hopes will hearten uneasy foreign
investors amid lingering concern since last year's coup.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's cabinet gave the go-ahead to sign the
agreement later in the day with Thailand's army-installed Prime
Minister Surayud Chulanont, Japan's foreign ministry said.


"The agreement is expected to accelerate liberalisation of trade
and investment as well as expansion of economic activities of
both countries," the ministry said.


Surayud's government approved the deal last week, hoping that the
pact with Thailand's largest investor will ease worries in the
business community about protectionist policies since the
military takeover.


The agreement was negotiated by Thailand's elected prime minister
Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted in the September coup.


Free-trade negotiations between Thailand and the United States
have stalled since the coup and Surayud has yet to visit any
Western countries as premier.


But Japan has historic political and economic ties with Thailand,
with many Japanese firms using Bangkok as a regional hub.


The government said it was not ignoring concerns about democracy
in Thailand, where Surayud has promised to hold elections in
December.


Abe "is very likely to call on Prime Minister Surayud to assure
an early return to a normal democracy in their summit talks," a
foreign ministry official told AFP.


He is also expected to appeal for Japanese investors to be
treated equally with Thailand's domestic businesses, officials
said.


Under the agreement, Japan and Thailand will lift tariffs on more
than 90 percent of trade in 10 years and Bangkok has vowed to
step up transparency and legal protections to help Japanese
investors.


But activists -- some of whom were part of protests against
Thaksin before his ouster -- have lashed out against the deal,
saying it will turn Thailand into a dumping ground for Japan's
toxic waste.


"Concerns by anti-globalisation activists are not legitimate as
both Japan and Thailand are signiture countries of the Basel
Convention which controls movement of hazardous wastes," the
foreign ministry official said.

