

Fans and former cricketers are fast losing faith in Brian Lara's
West Indians, who are facing an early exit from the World Cup
after three successive defeats in the Super Eights.


The West Indies' semi-final hopes were severely jolted when they
crashed to a 113-run defeat against Sri Lanka in front of their
supporters at the Providence Stadium here on Sunday.


They were always considered a dangerous side because of their
unpredictability, but have looked only predictable in their last
three matches against defending champions Australia, New Zealand
and Sri Lanka.


The West Indies were the surprise winners of the 2004 Champions
Trophy in England and also finished runners-up in the 2006
edition in India. But they always looked the second-best side in
their Super Eights games.


Batting was their big headache as they failed to cross the
220-mark in their previous three games, with only Lara and
Shivnarine Chanderpaul among the top- order batsmen scoring one
half-century apiece.


Opener Chris Gayle's below-par performances only added to their
problems, for he was instrumental in giving his team solid starts
in the Champions Trophy in India last year when he was named man
of the tournament.


The West Indies clashed with three in-form sides early in the
second round, but could not raise their performance. Their
bowling and fielding both left a lot to be desired under
pressure.


The competitive flavour was missing in all the three matches as
they lost by 103 runs against Australia, by seven wickets against
New Zealand and by 113 runs against Sri Lanka.


No hosts have ever won the Cup and the West Indies look unlikely
to break the jinx as they not only have to win against South
Africa, England and Bangladesh, but also have to depend on other
teams' results.


"It was no April Fool's Day joke. The simple reality was that Sri
Lanka gave the West Indies a comprehensive beating, one more
complete than they have had for a long time," former West Indies
paceman Colin Croft wrote in his Guyana Chronicle column.


"It was terrible and like all the West Indian supporters and
former players, this hurts terribly. I don't think that the West
Indies have anything special about them now. I cannot remember
seeing a team look so poor on the field."


The West Indies had raised their fans' hopes when they beat
Pakistan, Ireland and Zimbabwe to qualify with an all-win record.
But it turned out to be a deceptive start as they were found
wanting against big sides in the second round.


Former Test fast bowler Michael Holding has already hit out at
Lara, saying the captain should step down.


"Lara has to step aside, not necessarily as a player, but as
captain. He appears bigger than the game. He has got whatever he
has wanted," said Holding.


"We haven't seen an improvement when he has taken over the
captaincy. Everyone knows he's a great batsman but that's not
what it takes to lead a team. I can't even say he is a good
captain tactically."


Lara still believes there is a glimmer of hope if his team win
the remaining three matches. But their failure to advance to the
semi-finals will greatly affect the attendences at the stadia.


Spectators have so far turned up in large numbers only for
matches involving the hosts.


"Times are now decidedly desperate for the West Indies cricket
team, and this has nothing to do with the World Cup," wrote
Croft.


"The West Indies team, based on what I saw on Sunday, is in a
very bad state."

