

British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher, who held
the position during the 1982 Falklands War, paid homage to
British veterans on the 25th anniversary of the conflict in low
key ceremonies on Monday.


In Scotland, Blair met with former members of the Scots Guards
and the Royal Navy, where he awarded them with veterans' badges
and certificates aboard the HMS Liverpool docked in Fife, in the
southeast of Scotland.


"It's a day to reflect on just how much as a country we owe to
our armed forces," Blair said.


Thatcher, meanwhile, paid silent tribute to the 255 British
service personnel who died in the conflict, and laid a wreath of
yellow and white roses, lilies and orchids in the crypt of
London's St. Paul's Cathedral.


Dressed in a long black coat and black shoes, Lady Thatcher stood
back for several moments after laying the wreath, which bore a
card that read: "In memory of those who have given their lives
for Britain and for the Falklands Islands -- Margaret Thatcher."


She did not say a word during the 10-minute ceremony.


The memorial she visited lists the names of all the British
servicemen who died in the conflict.


The Falklands War was sparked after Argentina's military
government, headed by General Leopoldo Galtieri, invaded the
remote South Atlantic islands, 480 kilometers (300 miles) off its
coast, on April 2, 1982.


More than 900 people died -- including 649 Argentine and 255
British troops and three islanders -- during air, land and sea
hostilities.


Some 12,000 kilometers (8,000 miles) away, Thatcher, whose "Iron
Lady" reputation was forged during the crisis, sent in 110 ships
and 28,000 military personnel to retake the islands and liberate
the around 3,000 inhabitants.


In the immediate aftermath of the conflict with Argentina, which
lasted 74 days, she said: "What the Falklands proved was that we
could still do it, and do it superbly."


In a statement on the eve of the invasion anniversary, British
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett stressed London's commitment
to "constructive" ties with Buenos Aires, and said that the
"resulting loss of life on both sides is a source of continuing
regret."


She also announced an offer for families of dead Argentine
soldiers to hold a memorial ceremony on the islands towards the
end of the year.


Argentina, meanwhile, has clung to its claim of sovereignty over
the Falklands, and Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana said Argentina
would continue pressing its case before international bodies.

