

The Iraqi kidnappers of a German woman and her son have extended
by 10 days their deadline for Berlin to withdraw its forces from
Afghanistan or see the hostages executed, a group monitoring
Islamist websites said Monday.


The deadline extension came in a video that showed a distraught
Hannelore Krause, 61, and her 20-year-old son Sinan sobbing as
she appealed to her husband and countrymen to save her life,
according to the SITE Institute.


"I beg you, help me. ... I'm so afraid and we only have a few
days left," Krause wailed, crying uncontrollably as she and her
son sat in front of a green wall rug in the video that SITE said
was posted on the al-Hesbah Internet forum.


"I'm completely at the end of my rope. I'm a complete mess," said
Krause, wearing a head scarf and black robes after nearly two
months in captivity with her son, who wore a green-and-blue
jumper.


Apparently addressing her husband, an Iraqi doctor, Krause
bawled: "You know that I would so much love to come home. I miss
you so much. Please find some way (to help)."


SITE said the five-minute and 27-second video was produced by an
Iraqi group called "Kataeb Siham al-Haq (Righteous Arrows
Battalions)" that had threatened on March 10 to kill the Germans.


The group is seeking the withdrawal of German and Austrian forces
from Afghanistan. On the video, it ended up "extending the
ultimatum for this withdrawal (from Afghanistan) by 10 days,"
SITE said.


Germany has nearly 3,000 troops in Afghanistan with the NATO-led
force and Austria has a token contingent.


It was not clear what was the new deadline to decide the fate of
Krause and her son, who works at the Iraqi foreign ministry. They
were seized on February 6 in Baghdad where they have lived for
several years.


The video showed Krause warning that a failure by Germany and
Austria to pull out of Afghanistan would have consequences for
both countries as well as her and her son.


"Germany was safe before it allied with America in this devilish
alliance against what is called terrorism," she said.


"What terrorism is this? Did the Afghani people attack Berlin and
destroy it factories? Did any Muslim explode one bomb in
Germany?"


A first deadline for the pair's execution came and went on March
20 with the German government unable to contact the kidnappers,
the German television station ZDF reported at the time.


Berlin has made several attempts to secure their release
including a message from the German president, contained in a
video distributed in Germany and the Arab world, urging the
kidnappers "to return the hostages to their family."

