

Jose Eduardo dos Santos, a former footballer who is one of
Africa's longest serving leaders, shows little sign of seeking an
early retirement five years after leading Angola out of its
vicious civil war.


Dos Santos, 64, has yet to declare whether he will seek a new
term in office when the southwestern African country holds its
first post-war presidential elections in 2009 when he will have
served 30 years in the hotseat.


After spending most of his presidency trying to defeat the UNITA
(National Union for the Total Independence of Angola) rebels, his
efforts more recently have been devoted to the reconstruction of
a country that he estimates suffered some 40 billion dollars in
economic damage between 1975 and 2002.


Dos Santos cut his teeth alongside Agostinho Neto, longtime
leader of the marxist Movement for the Liberation of Angola
(MPLA) who became the first president after independence in 1975
before dying in 1979.


A low-key figure who shuns the limelight and the cult of
personality, he is now Africa's third longest-serving president
after Libya's Moamer Kadhafi and Omar Bongo of Gabon.


In one of his rare keynote speeches, ahead of the country's 30th
anniversary of independence, Dos Santos appealed to all his
fellow countrymen to join in the task of forging a united nation.


"Irrespective of the ideas, beliefs or party affiliation of each
person, everyone is called upon to join forces to build a better
Angola for all," he said.


"This is the time to unite what was separated for so long and to
renew our combined efforts to achieve our great shared national
objectives."


According to one of his closest lieutenants, MPLA information
secretary Norberto dos Santos, the president's main focus in
office during peace-time has been to forge a national consensus.


"A consensus agenda is vital for a country that has been through
such a long civil war," he told AFP.


Dos Santos's opponents however have long questioned his real
commitment to democracy. The late UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi
accused his arch rival of fixing the last elections in 1992 and
ordered his men to resume their conflict rather than contest a
second round.


The first post-war elections were meant to have been last year
but the timetable has slipped and a new parliament is now due to
be voted for next year, while presidential elections should take
place in 2009.


When news of the latest delay emerged late last year, Joao
Kambwela, a Luanda university academic who plans to run as an
independent, said it could not be justified.


"There is no reason why these elections should be delayed yet
again," he told AFP.


UNITA's reaction has been muted, criticising the postponements
but welcoming the start of voter registrations as proof of a
genuine desire for democracy.


At other times, Dos Santos has had to face accusations of over-
centralising power, at one stage serving as prime minister as
well as president and MPLA leader.


Yet he has largely eschewed the limelight, accorded to other
long-time leaders such as Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe, and rarely
attends summits.


One of his most recent trips took him to Moscow, where he oversaw
deals on oil and diamond extraction.


In a sign of his reluctance to be patronised, Dos Santos said:
"We didn't come here to seek help. Angola has great economic
potential and can offer something in exchange for cooperation."


Dos Santos was partly educated in the former Soviet Union,
graduating in engineering in Azerbaijan.


He had spent earlier stints in exile in Paris and the Republic of
Congo and only returned to Angola in 1970, working as a radio
transmitter for the MPLA as it battled for independence.


By the time the civil war started shortly after independence, he
had risen through the ranks to such an extent that his succession
when Neto died was relatively seamless.


He has been the subject of a number of health scares, suffering
from prostate cancer several years ago. A keen amateur football
career was cut short by an achilles tendon injury.

