

President Alan Garcia on Monday ordered warplanes to bomb and
strafe drug manufacturing plants and clandestine airstrips in
Peru's Amazon jungle.


"We must do away with the last (cocaine) processing, the last
clandestine airport," Garcia ordered Interior Minister Luis Alva
Castro. "Use the A-37 airplanes -- bomb, machinegun these
airports and processing plants."


The A-37 is a small, agile US-made warplane ideal for use in
Peru's steep valleys.


He warned that if Peru does not "kill the drug trafficking danger
now," it could face "an insurgency like the one of a brother
country."


Garcia alluded to Colombia, whose government battles leftist
rebels funded by illicit drugs.


Garcia also wants to avoid a repeat of his 1985-1990 presidency,
when he was soundly criticized for not attacking drugs and
leftist rebels.


He ordered the crackdown after announcing Sunday that a two-week
suspension of coca eradication had ended, and that the government
would return to destroying the coca bushes, from which cocaine is
extracted in the clandestine laboratories.


"We must choke cocaine production," he said, adding it was the
best way to make coca-leaf farmers plant alternative crops such
as coffee and cocoa. "You make less money but you live legally."


A general strike among farmers in the Tocache region led to an
agreement with Agriculture Minister Juan Jose Salazar to suspend
the eradication.


Garcia's decision to renew attacks on the drug producers drew
fire even from fellow Aprista lawmakers, who said publicly that
Garcia was acting tough prior to a visit to US President George
W. Bush in Washington on April 23.


Leader among the coca growers Nelson Palomino demanded dialogue
before renewed eradication and rejected "the imposition of the US
policy of eradicating crops and violating individual rights," he
told RPP, a national news radio network.


The US prescription for the Andean coca-producing countries of
Bolivia, Colombia and Peru is the eradication of the coca plants.


Sale and use of coca leaf is legal in those countries, where
indigenous peoples have chewed the leaf with no ill effect for
thousands of years. However, industrialized nations created and
purchased the refined cocaine for medicinal and recreational use.


Peru produces 105,000 tonnes of coca leaf annually, 8,000 to
9,000 tonnes legally. The other 93 percent is sold to traffickers
who extract cocaine.

