

Shane Bond has made it clear he wants to be known as the best
bowler in the world.


The New Zealand quick, whose career has been blighted by injury,
revealed his personal goal after turning in another impressive
World Cup display during the nine-wicket victory against
Bangladesh which left the Black Caps level on points in the
standings with Australia, the reigning world champions


"It's driven me since my first tour of Australia (in 2001-02),
it's always been a goal to be the number one bowler in the
world," Bond, 31, told reporters after taking two for 15 in 10
overs against Bangladesh at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here
Monday.


However, the former policeman insisted his side's ambitions came
first.


"My personal milestones mean little so long as I can put in
performances that help us win. That's all that matters."


During this World Cup Bond, who spent several years on the
sidelines with feet, back and knee problems, has been miserly
with the new ball before returning for a second spell that has
usually yielded at least one key wicket.


"The new ball is the most important time to bowl, adjusting to
the pitch and making sure you adjust quickly enough," Bond
explained.


"I'm just continuing to work hard, my injury problems have been
well documented but it has been a good season so far and I've got
half a dozen games to get through now."


New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming said Bond's form made him an
easy man to captain.


"The way's he's been doing it, with subtlety, changes of pace, a
little reverse swing and the length that he's hitting, is top-
class," said the captain.


Bond, who leads New Zealand's tournament bowling averages with
eight wickets at an average of just over 10 apiece, is currently
second in the International Cricket Council (ICC) one-day
international bowling rankings behind fellow paceman Shaun
Pollock.


The South African is on a mark of 906 compared to Bond's 751.


In the Test list Bond is in sixth place on 722, still some way
behind Muttiah Muralitharan, the extraordinary Sri Lanka off-
spinner, who tops the standings with a rating of 913.


Bond, who was named man of the match on Monday, said he was
enjoying the challenge of pitting his pace against the slow
Caribbean pitches.


"Things are going well for us at the moment. The challenge will
be to keep it going until the business-end of the tournament," he
said.


"The wickets are different every time you turn up so it's a
question of adjusting every time and using your variations. The
other guys also do a good holding job which makes my work easier.


"Guys like Shaun Pollock and Glenn McGrath are the ones you
strive for and even though I'm a quick bowler, on these kind of
wickets, I still need to put the ball in the right areas and I've
managed to that so far."


Bond will look to boost his one-day position when New Zealand
play World Cup surprise package Ireland, shock winners against
Pakistan, in Guyana on Monday.

