

Britain was offered a glimmer of hope as its efforts to free 15
sailors detained by Tehran continued Tuesday, after a top Iranian
official said the standoff could be resolved without a trial.


Iran also said that because of an unspecified shift in London's
stance, it was holding back from airing confessions it had
obtained from the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven marines who
have been held since March 23.


Ali Larijani, the head of the supreme national security council,
on Monday said that there was "no need" to put the group on
trial, describing the stand-off as "quite resolvable."


"Definitely our priority is to solve the problem through proper
diplomatic channels. We are not interested in having this issue
get further complicated," Larijani told Britain's Channel Four
television.


"We definitely believe this issue can be resolved. And there is
no need for any trial."


He also criticised the European Union, claiming it had "started
to condemn Iran without knowing the facts" over the group's
capture.


Britain said on Monday that it shared Larijani's preference for a
diplomatic solution to the standoff, with a foreign ministry
spokeswoman telling AFP that Britain shares "his preference for
early bilateral discussions."


Meanwhile, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was set to give
his fifth solo press conference in Tehran on Tuesday, amid
indications that he could announce important news on Iran's
nuclear programme, which has also brought international pressure
on the Islamic republic.


UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Monday urged Iran to release
the 14 men and one woman "as soon as possible" and added that the
"rhetoric should be toned down."


Ban told reporters in New York that he had appealed to Iranian
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki to ensure that "this issue
should be resolved as soon as possible through political,
diplomatic consultations."


Hours before Larijani's comments, Iranian state television said
that all 15 sailors had given "frank confessions," admitting to
illegally entering its waters, and broadcast new pictures of the
group apparently admitting to their error.


Britain maintains that the group were carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


Iranian state media commentaries spoke of a "change" in the
British attitude towards resolving the stand-off, but the reports
did not say what shift had been made and had yet to be echoed by
any Iranian officials.


The ISNA news agency, without citing its sources, said that
because of a shift in London's stance, Iran was holding back from
airing voiced confessions from all the sailors.


The detention of the 15 has further poisoned relations between
Iran and the West at a time of mounting international impatience
with the Islamic republic over its refusal to rein in its
contested nuclear programme.


During its report, state television also showed very brief images
of all 15 Britons talking to camera individually or in pairs,
though the sound was not broadcast and it was not clear if these
were their "confessions."


Britain insisted there was no chance of London backing down.


"The Iranians know our position. They know that stage-managed TV
appearances aren't going to affect that position. They know that
we have strong international support," Prime Minister Tony
Blair's official spokesman said.


He added that "a lot is going on behind the scenes" to secure
their release.


Britain replied on Saturday to a letter from Iran that had asked
London to acknowledge that the sailors had trespassed and
guarantee it would not happen again.


But Iran again infuriated Britain by also broadcasting what
London described as "unacceptable" new images with accompanying
sound of two detainees.


Britain, which unlike the United States has diplomatic relations
with Iran, on Sunday endured an angry protest by hundreds of
Iranians outside its diplomatic mission in Tehran calling for the
naval personnel to be punished.


London's ally Washington has never ruled out the option of using
military action to bring the Islamic republic to heel over its
nuclear programme, which the United States says is aimed at
making atomic weapons. Iran denies the charge.


Meanwhile, officials in Iran continued to applaud the arrest of
the sailors and marines, which coincided with festivities for the
major holiday of Nowruz marking the start of the Iranian New
Year.

