

Angola on Wednesday celebrates five years of peace after a
27-year civil war as one of Africa's fastest growing economies,
thanks to an oil boom which has however done little to raise
living standards.


The signing of an accord on April 4, 2002, between the government
and UNITA rebels drew the line under a conflict that left half a
million people dead and wrecked the infrastructure of a country
that only won independence in 1975.


While previous lulls had proved to be false dawns, the deal
between the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola
(UNITA) and President Jose Eduardo dos Santos' Movement for the
Liberation of Angola (MPLA) took root and the only face-off on
the cards is at delayed elections.


However some observers warn the failure to ensure the peace
dividend is enjoyed by all is stoking up problems that may boil
over.


The oil boom has been so dramatic in the post-war era that Angola
is now the second largest producer in sub-Saharan Africa after
Nigeria.


According to the state oil company Sonangol, it should be
producing around two million barrels per day by the end of the
year, against the current level of 1.4 million, at a time when
prices are creeping ever higher.


However benefits have largely failed to reach rural areas in a
country where some 70 percent of the 16 million population earn
less than two dollars a day.


The millions of landmines left from the war and devastated
infrastructure have hamstrung bids to revive the farming sector.


While agriculture was the leading export sector before
independence, it only accounted for 8.6 percent of GDP in 2006.
Oil now accounts for 57 percent.


But for all the new-found oil wealth, "very, very little trickles
down to the normal population," said Ayesha Kajee, an analyst at
the South African Institute of International Affairs in
Johannesburg.


"The gap between the rich and the poor is increasing ... and
there's very much a sense that if elections do not happen then
the tensions among the poor could boil over."


The country's Catholic bishops combined late last year to deplore
the levels of poverty, making pointed reference to Angola's oil
wealth and fertile land, wondering why it should then be "one of
the world's poorest nations".


Dos Santos, in power since 1979, was meant to have held elections
last year but the timeline has slipped and legislative elections
are now not due until next year and the ballot for president in
2009.


The latest delays provoked little protest either from domestic
opponents or the international community.


A recent Economist Intelligence Unit report said Dos Santos
remains largely unchallenged as he "controls a vast patronage
network, skilfully appeasing conflicting interests" which puts
him and his party at a huge advantage over UNITA.


"With the international community, take the levels of oil output
and add that to the increasing demand for oil from eastern and
South Asian players, you get a situation where people do not want
to upset the flow of oil," said Kajee.


With elections some way off, Dos Santos has invited the
opposition and civil society representatives to talks aimed at
establishing "a consensus agenda" which would fix development
priorities for the next two decades.


Central to development is China, the main market for the oil
exports.


Chinese capital is paying for the reconstruction of the rail link
between Luanda and the main southern city of Benguela, a project
that will incorporate the nearby deepwater port of Lobito.


In the oil-rich northern province of Cabinda, sporadic unrest has
continued in spite of a peace deal between government and rebels
last year.


Unlike the rest of Angola, Cabinda was a Portuguese protectorate
and not a colony and its residents feel closer to their Congolese
neighbours.


"These peace celebrations won't mean anything to the Cabindan
people who just want to live in freedom," said Agostinho Chikaya,
head of the separatist movement Mpalabanda (Resistance).

