

Satoshi Watanabe smiles wryly as he remembers the day YouTube's
young founders showed up in Tokyo dressed awkwardly in suits and
ties to try to calm a copyright row.


Before jetting home, YouTube founders Chad Hurley and Steve Chen
agreed to post a Japanese-language notice on the hit US video-
sharing website warning against illegal uploads.


"They did not offer an apology, but they seemed to be sincere
about addressing our requests," said Watanabe, who represented
the Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and
Publishers in the February meeting.


"They said they were wearing suits and ties for the first time in
their lives," said Watanabe.


At the request of the 23 Japanese rights owner groups, YouTube
last year deleted some 30,000 illegal uploads.


But Watanabe said he was not optimistic that it would stop the
steady stream of unauthorised new clips being added and the right
owners would like YouTube to do even more to stop the uploads.


YouTube, which was cooked up by Hurley and Chen at a dinner party
as an easy way to share home videos online, has seen an explosion
in popularity in tech-savvy Japan.


As its influence grows, Japan's traditional broadcasters are
growing increasingly anxious about the mushrooming number of
clips from television programmes and other media appearing on the
site.


Major broadcasters now trawl through the huge pool of YouTube
clips to find illegal uploads on the website, which was
originally created to share personal videos such as a friend's
wedding or a pet dog's strange habits.


A quick search for "Japan' on YouTube brings up an almost endless
list of television clips from comedians and musicians and
cartoons.


The website's user base is growing more quickly in Japan than any
of the other major websites, including Yahoo Japan, Amazon.co.jp
or Wikipedia.org, according to the latest report by Internet
research firm NetRatings Japan.


Even though it does not have a separate Japanese-language
version, last month YouTube notched up its 10 millionth Japanese
visitor after just 14 months -- one-fifth of the nation's entire
home Internet users.


It took even Google's Japanese site 51 months, while
Wikipedia.org needed 60 months to reach the same level,
NetRatings said.


But despite YouTube's popularity, some Japanese media companies
say they are unfazed by the competition.


Yoshinori Takagaki, an executive at Japan's Usen Corp., one of
the country's most successful online broadcasters, said YouTube's
lack of credibility was a major hurdle to its business prospects.


"We don't try to create interactive media," he said, calling
services such as YouTube "private media" and arguing that they
violated Japanese copyright law.


"Private media do not grow as a profitable business. YouTube is
illegal in Japan, after all," he said.


But Takagaki said that the website's popularity could be a boost
to other online broadcasters as it introduces more Japanese to
the possibility of watching films online.


Japan is not a stand-alone case in a world where new information
sharing technologies have unleashed a series of clashes between
copyright protectors and defenders of freedom of information.


US entertainment giant Viacom has launched a billion-dollar
copyright infringement lawsuit against Google, which bought
YouTube last year for 1.65 billion dollars.


More recently media titans NBC Universal and News Corp. announced
plans to take on YouTube with their own online video website.


Despite the popularity of YouTube here, the Japanese government
is working on an information technology project that could far
overshadow the video-swapping website.


To be fully launched in July, the Joho Dai Kokai, or "Great
Information Voyage," aims to create a more advanced level of
information sharing that goes beyond personal computers.


Project chief Toshihide Yahiro said the Joho Dai Kokai would be
much more advanced than Google, which is dominated by text even
though it offers searches for images and videos.


He cited the possibility of accumulating different types of
information such as people's medical data or driving habits.


"For example, we already have a type of car that automatically
hits the brakes when an object quickly approaches," said Yahiro.


"What if your car automatically monitors your health condition
and adjusts its functions accordingly?" he said. "What if traffic
lights sense your eye movements and sound alarms if you fail to
pay attention?"

