

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar said his side had still to find
the right approach to building a score after their nine-wicket
World Cup Super Eights defeat against New Zealand.


During their 10-wicket reverse in their second round opener
against world champions Australia, Bangladesh collapsed to 65 for
five on the way to a total of 104 for six in a match reduced by
rain to 22 overs per side.


However, against New Zealand, Bangladesh enjoyed an opening stand
of 55


Tamim Iqbal made 29 and Javed Omar, in for the out-of-form
Shahriar Nafees, 22. But on a good pitch their runs came at a
sedate pace of under four an over.


And after they exited, Bangladesh collapsed to 174 all out at the
Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


Looking ahead to Saturday's match against South Africa, another
major power, Bashar said his largely youthful side needed to
strike a balance between their natural attacking instincts and
excessive caution.


"The team plan is not to lose too many early wickets to the new
ball," Bashar told reporters after New Zealand had won with more
than 20 overs to spare here Monday.


"It means we need to be careful, but I think maybe we were a
little bit too careful.


"We need to do something in between - either we're hitting too
much, or blocking too much."


All four of Bangladesh's top order made it into the 20s against
the Black Caps but none of them were able to press on and Bashar
added: "Our top four batsmen got a start and didn't finish it; if
one of them could bat for 30 to 40 overs we can put some good
runs on the board.


"It is a little bit frustrating - but I still believe in my
players. They have shown they have the talent and the
capabilities to get top runs," said the Bangladesh skipper, whose
side beat New Zealand in a warm-up match before enjoying a group
victory against India.


"We've had a pretty difficult first two matches in the Super
Eights. But we still have four to go, and our goal is not to
repeat the mistakes we have made so far. But we still believe we
can come back from here, and come back strongly for the next
game."


Bashar's leadership skills off the field, backed up by input from
experienced coach Dav Whatmore, who guided Sri Lanka to the 1996
World Cup title, will have to come to the fore during the next
few days as Bangladesh look to rebuild their morale.


"We need a good show in our next game to get our confidence back
up - because we are a little bit down," Bashar explained.


Having now played two of the leading contenders for the World
Cup, Bashar said there was little to choose between them.


"They are very different teams, and both have a good chance (of
winning the World Cup). New Zealand play with a lot of all-
rounders and bat down the order, Australia have top-order batsmen
who score big runs.


"Whoever wins the World Cup this time will have to work very
hard."

