

Environmentalists hailed a US Supreme Court ruling that the
government has the power to regulate greenhouse gases, as a
watershed decision in fighting global warming.


In a sharply divided judgment, the court ruled Monday that
greenhouse gases are pollutants, and so the federal Environmental
Protection Agency was wrong to say it had no mandate to regulate
such emissions.


The decision dealt a new blow to the administration of President
George W. Bush, which is steadfast in refusing any limits on US
industry or on its gas-guzzling cars, arguing it could hurt the
country's economy.


"Because greenhouse gases fit well within the Clean Air Act's
capacious definition of 'air pollutant,' we hold that EPA has the
statutory authority to regulate the emission of such gases from
new motor vehicles," the court ruled.


Led by Massachusetts, a dozen states along with several US cities
and environmental groups went to the courts to try to force the
agency to regulate greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide
emissions after it refused to do so.


"The harms associated with climate change are serious and well
recognized," said justice John Paul Stevens in the ruling which
won five votes in favor to four against.


"EPA's steadfast refusal to regulate greenhouse gas emissions
presents a risk of harm to Massachusetts that is both 'actual'
and 'imminent.'"


Environmental campaigners, who have been fighting for greater
regulations in a nation which accounts for a quarter of all
global greenhouse gas emissions, hailed Monday's ruling, as did a
handful of politicians.


"It is a watershed moment in the fight against global warming,"
said Josh Dorner, spokesman for the Sierra Club environmental
group.


"This is a total repudiation of the refusal of the Bush
administration to use the authority he has to meet the challenge
posed by global warming," he added.


It also "sends a clear signal to the market that the future lies
not in dirty, outdated technology of yesterday, but in clean
energy solutions of tomorrow like wind, solar," he added.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said the administration and
EPA would have to "analyze" the decision and denied ever
contesting that greenhouse gases contribute to global warming.


Bush is strongly opposed to Kyoto's approach of binding cuts,
also called caps, in emissions and has instead promoted voluntary
action, backed by some incentives for cleaner energy sources and
gains in energy efficiency.


At a November hearing, Massachusetts argued that it risked losing
more than 4.5 meters (15 feet) of land all along its coastline if
the sea level should rise 30 centimeters (one foot).


But the Bush administration, backed by nine states and several
auto manufacturers, urged the court not to intervene, arguing
that if the situation were so dire it could not be solved by a
simple legal decision.


It further argued that reducing emissions from new US motor
vehicles would have only a minor effect on global climate change.


"While it may be true that regulating motor-vehicle emissions
will not by itself reverse global warming, it by no means follows
that we lack jurisdiction to decide whether EPA has a duty to
take steps to slow or reduce it," the court ruled.


California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, whose state is among
several to have already acted independently to reduce greenhouse-
gas emissions, said he was "very encouraged" by the ruling.


Senator and presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said the
decision "rejects the Bush administration's 'do nothing' approach
to the problem," while fellow candidate, Senator Barack Obama,
said that "after six years of inaction and denial our government
must take bold action to save our planet."


While the court's decision is unlikely to change US policy, it
has ramifications on several other ongoing issues, such as the
agency's refusal to regulate emissions from electricity plants
which produce some 40 percent of US carbon dioxide emissions.
Motor vehicles are responsible for just 20 percent.

