

Graft-busters appointed by Thailand's junta threatened Tuesday to
file criminal charges against two children of ex-premier Thaksin
Shinawatra for failing to pay tax on a lucrative business deal.


The Assets Examination Committee ordered Panthongtae and
Pinthongta Shinawatra to pay 10.4 billion baht (321.4 million
dollars) in back taxes on the sale of his telecom Shin Corp.


They had been ordered last year to pay the tax bill by March 31,
but by the end of Monday had still not paid up.


"We have asked the Revenue Department to officially inform
Panthongtae and Pinthongta to pay the amount within 30 days. If
they don't, the next step in the process could eventually lead to
the confiscation of their assets," the committee's spokesman Sak
Korsaengruang said.


"The committee is also investigating further to see whether those
persons intentionally avoided paying taxes. If yes, we will
recommend the prosecutors to file criminal charges against them,"
he told AFP.


The tax bill includes 5.6 billion baht in personal taxes, plus
another 4.8 billion baht owed by their offshore trading company
Ample Rich, which was used to facilitate the sale of Shin Corp to
Singapore's Temasek Holdings.


Thaksin's lawyer insisted that no taxes were owed on the deal and
vowed to appeal the ruling.


"The resolution made by the AEC is clearly politically motivated,
in another attempt to penalise people close to Thaksin," he told
AFP.


"We will absolutely fight against the allegations in the court to
the end."


Thaksin's family sold their 49 percent stake in Shin Corp to
Temasek for 1.9 billion dollars in January 2006.


The deal was structured to avoid paying any taxes, sparking
public anger that erupted in months of street protests
culminating in the coup last September.


Thai prosecutors last month charged Thaksin's wife Pojaman
Shinawatra, her step- brother and her personal secretary with tax
evasion over an earlier sale of Shin Corp shares, in the first
criminal corruption since the coup.

