

Iran's top security official said on Monday there was "no need"
to put 15 captured British naval personnel on trial, stressing
that Tehran wanted to find a diplomatic solution to the impasse.


Ali Larijani, the head of the supreme national security council,
described the stand-off, which has been ongoing since March 23
when Iran seized the personnel, as "quite resolvable."


"Definitely our priority is to solve the problem through proper
diplomatic channels. We are not interested in having this issue
get further complicated," Larijani told Britain's Channel Four
television.


"We definitely believe this issue can be resolved. And there is
no need for any trial."


He also criticised the European Union, claiming it had "started
to condemn Iran without knowing the facts" over the group's
capture.


Britain said on Monday that it shared Larijani's preference for a
diplomatic solution to the standoff, with a foreign ministry
spokeswoman telling AFP that Britain shares "his preference for
early bilateral discussions."


Larijani's comments came hours after Iran said that all 15
sailors had confessed to illegally entering its waters, and
broadcast new pictures of the group apparently admitting to their
error.


"All evidence, including the GPS carried by the British military
and also the frank confessions of all 15 British personnel, shows
that they have entered Iran's territorial waters without
permission," state television said.


Britain maintains that the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven
marines were only carrying out routine anti-smuggling operations
in Iraqi waters.


Iranian state media commentaries spoke of a "change" in the
British attitude towards resolving the stand-off, but the reports
did not say what shift had been made and had yet to be echoed by
any Iranian officials.


The ISNA news agency, without citing its sources, said that
because of a shift in London's stance, Iran was holding back from
airing voiced confessions from all the sailors.


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at a time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


During its report, state television also showed very brief images
of all 15 Britons talking to camera individually or in pairs,
though the sound was not broadcast and it was not clear if these
were their "confessions."


Britain insisted there was no chance of London backing down.


"The Iranians know our position. They know that stage-managed TV
appearances aren't going to affect that position. They know that
we have strong international support," Prime Minister Tony
Blair's official spokesman said.


He added that "a lot is going on behind the scenes" to secure
their release.


Britain replied on Saturday to a letter from Iran that had asked
London to acknowledge that the sailors had trespassed and
guarantee it would not happen again.


But Iran again infuriated Britain by also broadcasting what
London described as "unacceptable" new images with accompanying
sound of two detainees.


"At about 10 o'clock in the morning, we were seized, apparently
at this point here, from their maps, from the GPS they've shown
us, which is inside Iranian territorial waters," said one of the
men, Captain Chris Air.


As he spoke, Air pointed with a pen to pictures of their frigate
and speedboats stuck onto the maps and an area with the
handwritten legend "the point where the intruding boats were
captured."


Britain, which unlike the United States has diplomatic relations
with Iran, on Sunday endured an angry protest by hundreds of
Iranians outside its diplomatic mission in Tehran calling for the
naval personnel to be punished.


London's ally Washington has never ruled out the option of using
military action to bring the Islamic republic to heel over its
nuclear programme, which the United States says is aimed at
making atomic weapons. Iran denies the charge.


The White House defended calling the group "hostages" on Monday,
and denied ramping up rhetoric towards Tehran to set the stage
for war, though, with spokeswoman Dana Perino telling reporters:
"We reject any notion that suggests that we are ratcheting up the
language in terms of trying to prepare to go to war with Iran."


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was due on Tuesday to hold his
fifth solo news conference since taking office, amid indications
that he could announce important news on Iran's nuclear
programme.


Meanwhile, officials continued to applaud the arrest of the
sailors and marines, which coincided with festivities for the
major holiday of Nowruz marking the start of the Iranian New
Year.

