

Oil prices hit their highest level in six months in London as
traders fretted over the ongoing crisis in Iran over 15 detained
British sailors.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May rose 64
cents to settle at 68.74 dollars a barrel.


It was the steepest price since September 1, and intraday prices
rose as high as 69.58 dollars a barrel.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, increased seven cents to close at 65.94 dollars
a barrel, the highest since early September.


The market action came amid little progress in the crisis over
Iran's holding of 15 sailors from Britain.


"If participants sense that the political situation is moving
closer to a military confrontation, which we think is still quite
far off, a rally to 70 dollars or higher is well within the realm
of possibility," said Mike Fitzpatrick at Fimat USA.


"Until there is a general acceptance that the heat is off, there
will probably be a reluctance to press the downside of the market
with anything other than corrective bursts of profit taking."


Iran said on Monday that all 15 British sailors it detained last
month had confessed to illegally entering its waters, and
broadcast new pictures of the servicemen apparently admitting to
their error.


State media also spoke of a "change" in the British attitude
towards resolving the standoff, but the reports did not say what
shift had been made and have yet to be echoed by any Iranian
officials. Britain insists the sailors were in Iraqi waters when
captured.


Iran is the world's fourth-biggest producer of crude oil and some
analysts believe there is a risk that the Islamic Republic could
move to disrupt its oil exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


The detention of the 14 men and one woman has further poisoned
relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear program.


On Monday the market was also tracking events in Nigeria, where
gunmen in the southern Bayelsa State on Monday kidnapped two
Lebanese nationals, two days after a British oil worker was
seized from an offshire rig.


A spokesman for Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that London
was aware of an incident in which a British national was
abducted.


"Nigeria, on top of Iran, on top of relatively tight market
fundamentals (of supply and demand), provides plenty of market-
moving news," said Victor Shum, senior principal at Purvin and
Gertz.


If Iran released the British personnel, prices could immediately
drop "a few dollars" but further escalation of the war of words
between the two countries could provide plenty of room for
speculators, Shum cautioned.

