

Chad on Monday accused Sudanese-backed Janjaweed militia of
killing 29 civilians in attacks on two villages in the east of
the country over the weekend.


It was just the latest in a series of attacks that Chad has
blamed on the Sudanese government and the Janjaweed, who are held
responsible by the international community for massacres in the
western Sudanese region of Darfur.


"The attackers burned the two places (Tiero and Morina) to the
ground and killed 29 civilians," said Chadian Communications
Minister Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor in a statement.


The attackers were pushed by the Chadian security forces, who
killed 25 of them, a government spokesman added. But between
6,000 and 8,000 people had been let with nothing and were left
homeless without any possessions.


"The attackers, who came on the back of camels, were equipped
with heavy weapons," said a Chadian official who asked to remain
anonymous. The fighting in the area had been fierce, he added.


The Janjaweed, a militia supplied by the Sudanese government has
been accused of carrying out what the United States government
has described as genocide inside the Darfur, just over the border
with Chad.


Aid workers in the region said that more than 70 wounded people
had arrived Sunday at two hospital at Koukou et Goz Beida, in the
southeast border region with Sudan.


"Chad wants peace on its borders but it will assume its duty of
protecting its citizens by all appropriate means if Sudan does
not do its part to end the milita attacks against Chadian
populations in the border regions," said a government statement.


But in December, Amnesty International accused the government of
Chad of failing to act as Janjaweed militia stepped up their
raids on civilians.


The rights group said it had "irrefutable proof" that the
conflict in Darfur, the troubled western region of Sudan, had
become "deeply entrenched" in neighbouring eastern Chad.


Last month the government of Chad accused Sudanese fighter planes
of bombarding towns in its eastern regions of Tine and Bahai.


Chad and Sudan accuse each other of supporting rebel movements.


Some 230,000 refugees from Darfur have in the past four years
taken shelter in camps in eastern Chad, which has seen renewed
rebel insurgency and ethnic strife since late October 2006.

