

Australian Prime Minister John Howard fired a broadside at the
European Union Tuesday for criticising his climate change policy,
saying it should get its own house in order before attacking
others.


The counter-strike came a day after EU Environment Commissioner
Stavros Dimas accused Australia of having a "negative attitude"
and refusing to sign the Kyoto Protocol on climate change for
political reasons rather than economic ones.


But Howard, who is under intense domestic pressure ahead of
elections later this year over what critics claim was a failure
by his government to tackle climate change, would have none of
it.


"You've got the spokesman for a group of countries lecturing us
about not having signed Kyoto," he told the Australian
Broadcasting Corporation (ABC).


"Yet the great bulk of the countries on whose behalf he speaks
are falling well behind their Kyoto targets and are doing less
well in meeting them," he fumed.


"Our answer to the spokesman for the European Union is: Look to
your own affairs, get your countries complying with the targets
you have proclaimed," Howard said.


Australia and its ally the United States are the only major
industrialised nations to have rejected ratifying the UN's Kyoto
pact.


But Howard insisted that Australia was one of the few
industrialised nations to meet what would be its targets under
the protocol.


"We should be very wary of European lectures on this issue," he
said.


"(They) are very different to the Australian economy and we would
doing our country a lot of damage if we applied European
solutions to a completely different Australian situation."


As UN scientists prepared a report likely to issue grim warnings
about climate change, Dimas on Monday pointedly characterised the
United States as the "number one emitter" of fossil-fuel
pollution in the world.


He also expressed incomprehension at Australia's recalcitrant
stance.


"I can really not understand why Australia has not ratified
Kyoto. If you ratify Kyoto it will cost you one-third of what it
costs you now... it's purely political," he said.

