

When 17-year-old Garyl Tan Jia Luo piggybacked on his neighbour's
unsecured wireless Internet network to chat online, he could not
have imagined that in doing so he would make Asian legal history.


Information technology (IT) experts and lawyers say Tan was the
first in Singapore, and possibly Asia, to be sentenced in court
for "wireless mooching," or piggybacking on an unsecured wireless
network to surf the Internet.


A judge in the city-state's district court sentenced him to 18
months' probation in January.


Tech-savvy Singapore, one of Asia's most wired nations, appears
to be the regional pioneer in clamping down on wireless network
freeloaders, IT experts and lawyers said.


They said they were not aware of similar prosecutions in the
Asia-Pacific region, and that only a handful of cases had emerged
over the past three years in North America.


"There is no similar criminal case in Hong Kong. And we believe
Singapore is quite a pioneer in this area," said Howard Lau,
president of Hong Kong's Professional Information Security
Association, an industry grouping.


The Singapore case may set a precedent in Asia and "open the
floodgates for similar prosecutions," said Aloysious Cheang,
president of the Special Interest Group in Security and
Information Integrity, a Singapore information and communications
security association.


Moochers make up an estimated five to 10 percent of the region's
wireless traffic at any time, said Bernie Trudel, principal
security consultant at network firm Cisco Systems Asia Pacific,
which supplies networking equipment through its Linksys division.


Residential wireless networks are more vulnerable to piggybackers
than corporate networks because only about 40 to 50 percent of
home networks are secured, compared with 80 to 90 percent for
corporate users, Trudel said.


Bryan Tan, a lawyer specialising in IT law at Keystone Law
Corporation in Singapore, said one of the few cases similar to
Garyl Tan's occurred in Florida.


According to a report in the St Petersburg Times newspaper, a 41
-year-old man was charged in April 2005 with unauthorised access
of a computer network. He was arrested for accessing the Internet
using a homeowner's wireless network on a laptop while parked
outside.


In Singapore, Garyl Tan was charged under Singapore's Computer
Misuse Act for securing access without authority to a computer
for the purpose of obtaining computer services.


Tan got probation, but conviction could have brought him up to
three years' imprisonment, a 10,000 dollar (6,490 US) fine, or
both.


Although wireless mooching is not unusual across Asia,
prosecutions are uncommon for several reasons, said lawyers who
specialise in information technology law. They cited the low
priority placed on mooching offences, the difficulty in tracking
offenders and an absence of laws against piggybacking.


"I would not say that the act of piggybacking is unusual. It is
the prosecution of it that is unusual ... taking action against
an individual who is piggybacking without the intention to cause
any harm is not a pressing criminal matter for most countries,"
said Cyril Chua, partner at law firm Alban Tay Mahtani and de
Silva in Singapore.


Countries may place a lower priority on wireless mooching than on
hacking and more severe technology-related crimes, Chua added.
Unlike Singapore, some may not even have clear laws prohibiting
wireless piggybacking, he said.


"While there are laws in Hong Kong and South Korea relating to
unauthorised access to computer systems like hacking, I couldn't
find any laws prohibiting Wi-Fi piggybacking," he said.


Under Hong Kong's Telecommunications Ordinance, any person who
knowingly causes a computer to obtain unauthorised access to any
programme or data held in a computer, is liable on conviction to
a fine of 20,000 Hong Kong dollars (2,560 US).


Chua said the Hong Kong provision is essentially against hacking
rather than wireless mooching, which involves unauthorised access
to a network.


Even in countries where wireless piggybacking is outlawed,
enforcement is difficult, said Tan, the Singapore lawyer.


"And the reason for that is that the sheer number of Wi-Fi
networks used at homes is so large and typically are not
monitored by experts. Therefore, it would be difficult to
identify whether unauthorised access has taken place," he said.


Home users who pay for unlimited Internet access would also not
be bothered if others tap into their bandwidth, he said.


"So we typically see prosecution when related to other crimes
which cause harm," he said.


Less than a month after Tan's sentencing, a 21-year-old man was
in court for another Singapore case related to wireless mooching.
But Lin Zhenghuang was sentenced to three months' imprisonment
and fined 4,000 dollars (2,614 US). He had posted an online bomb
hoax while piggybacking on a neighbour's wireless network.


A Singapore police spokesman told AFP that they "do not
specifically track offences involving Wi-Fi" but do investigate
"any allegation of crime as and when it is reported".


Garyl Tan's arrest followed a public complaint. Court documents
said a passer-by called police because he was suspicious of the
teenager sitting by the road using his laptop late at night.


Chua said many freeloaders regard the act as harmless, while
others may not even be aware they are committing an offence.


"The most common perception is that the crime is virtually
victimless as the 'victim' merely suffers a minor drop in
Internet speed," he said.


There is little publicity about illegal mooching, and the
piggybacking can happen easily because computers sometimes
automatically search for the strongest signal, he said.


"Even the user may not be aware when the piggybacking is
happening, let alone (that he is) committing a crime," Chua said.


Garyl Tan's prosecution came as the government seeks to broaden
legitimate Wi-Fi access.


Singapore had 779,000 broadband subscribers in January 2007,
while household broadband penetration was 62.8 percent, according
to government figures. The city-state has a population of about
4.4 million.


Wireless connectivity is currently available in Singapore homes,
offices and schools but the government recently said Singapore
would offer free wireless broadband service in public areas
starting this year.


The programme would increase the number of wireless hotspots from
900 to 5,000 over two years, said the government, which also aims
for the city-state to have 90 percent home broadband usage by
2015.


As Singapore moves towards its goal of becoming a centre of the
information- technology sector, its stance against wireless
moochers is designed to ensure public confidence in the
technology infrastructure, said Chua.


"From a policy standpoint, Singapore prides itself as an IT hub
and as such, any reported digital crime would have to be
prosecuted," he said, while noting Garyl Tan's case resulted from
a complaint which authorities were bound to investigate.


But with the worldwide spread of wireless technology, the
Singapore lawyer Tan said he expects more cases of wireless
piggybacking to reach the courts.


"There are millions of Wi-Fi networks around the world and it is
only a matter of time and evidence before more cases surface,"
Tan said.


Garyl Tan's case has emphasised the need for tighter wireless
network security, said Daniel Seng, a lecturer specialising in IT
law at the National University of Singapore.


"The case heightens awareness about wireless security," he said.


None of that was on Garyl Tan's mind when he sat on the kerb
outside his home at about 2:00 am on May 13 last year.


A computer games addict, he had gone outside to piggyback onto
any available wireless network because his mother had confiscated
his computer modem, said his lawyer Sam Koh.

