

Roberto Donadoni's normally calm demeanour gave way to a
defensive snarl as the pressure started to show on the Italy
coach ahead of Wednesday's Euro 2008 qualifier against Scotland.


World champions Italy are five points adrift of joint Group B
leaders France and Scotland with a game in hand, and anything
other than a win here will leave the Azzurri's qualification
hopes hanging in the balance.


It was never going to be easy for Donadoni to take charge of
Italy after their triumphant World Cup campaign, with
expectations that were already high reaching an almost
unrealistic level.


Some Italian newspapers have reported he will be sacked if the
Scots win on Wednesday, but the 43-year-old Italy coach, who took
over from Marcello Lippi shortly after the World Cup, feels he
and his squad are being treated unfairly.


"So many lies have been written in the last few days they could
fill an encyclopedia," the former AC Milan midfielder told a news
conference on Monday.


"There needs to be respect because I don't play this kind of
game. If the results don't go our way, it's only right to
criticise us when drawing your conclusions.


"But I don't understand why we are already on trial before the
match. It's always if, if, if. Just let the team play."


The knives were out for Donadoni after Italy began their campaign
with a 1-1 draw at home to Lithuania followed by a 3-1 away
defeat to France, whom Italy beat on penalties in last year's
World Cup final.


Back-to-back wins over Georgia and Ukraine kept the vultures at
bay before Donadoni fell foul of the media for his handling of
two national heroes - Alessandro Del Piero and Francesco Totti.


Donadoni dropped Del Piero for the match away to Georgia, a
decision met with gasps of disbelief as the veteran striker had
been in sparkling form for Juventus.


When quizzed last week about Del Piero's exclusion for that
match, Donadoni replied: "Del Piero is like any other player and
he knows that well."


To be so flippant about a figure the media love went down like a
lead ballon, and the relationship between Donadoni and the press
deteriorated.


Matters worsened when Donadoni said it will be he who decided if
he picks Totti once the Roma captain has returned from his
international sabatical in September.


Italy would be up in arms if golden boy Totti did not walk
straight back into the side, but Donadoni insisted he would not
be pressured into picking his team.


"There are those who criticise me for my attitude, but this is
the way I do things and I will not change," Donadoni said.


"I won't be conditioned by anybody. I will make my own
decisions."


Scotland manager Alex McLeish, whose first game in charge was
Saturday's last- gasp 2-1 win over Georgia, believes his side can
make life uncomfortable for Donadoni and Italy.


"The pressure is all on Italy as they are behind in the group,"
he said.


"For us there is no pressure being top. If we get the results we
want, it doesn't matter what anyone else does.


"This gives you a feeling of comfort and confidence."


Scotland midfielder Paul Hartley insisted his side were more than
capable of leaving the San Nicola stadium with a positive result.


"We don't fear them and we feel we can get something from the
game," he said.

