

Sri Lankan authorities are struggling to restore investor
confidence a day after Tamil Tiger rebels launched an audacious
air attack that stunned the defence establishment, officials
said.


Tamil Tiger rebels carried out their first air raid early Monday,
bombing Sri Lanka's main military air base in a daring night-time
mission that halted international air traffic into the island for
three hours.


The attack spooked punters at Colombo's tiny stock market, with
the main index shedding 37.89 points or 1.32 percent to close at
2,824.85 on paltry sales of 228 million rupees (two million
dollars).


However, central bank chief Nivard Cabraal was hopeful that the
country could bounce back, citing Monday's incident as a "minor
setback."


Cabraal said he expected financial markets to stabilise by
Tuesday and recover.


"There is no crisis of confidence after Monday's attack," Cabraal
said. "People who invest in Sri Lanka have already factored that
in, and put their money for the long term. We expect our growth
momentum to continue."


However, private analysts are sceptical and expect tourism and
foreign capital inflows to at least slow down in the short term.


The attack, which killed at least three air force men and wounded
another 16, was a sequel to a suicide bombing of the same air
base and the adjoining Bandaranaike international airport in July
2001.


After the 2001 attack insurance firms slapped war-risk surcharges
on airlines and ships calling at Colombo. Traffic declined and
the economy went into its first recession since independence from
Britain in 1948.


"I don't see a need for insurance firms to come rushing in and
raise war risk premiums, as the attack was limited to a military
base, not an economic target like the airport," economist
Muttukrishna Sarvananthan said.


In further bloodshed, at least two soldiers were killed on
Tuesday when Tigers detonated a tractor and trailer packed with
explosives at an army camp in eastern Sri Lanka, a military
official told AFP.


Earlier this month, Fitch Ratings warned that Sri Lanka's
international credit assessment could take a further beating if
it failed to make tangible progress in settling its decades-long
separatist conflict.


"The latest attack is also a psychological blow (for the
government and investors). I am not bullish on the short-term,"
noted Murtaza Jafferjee, managing director at J B Stockbrokers.


Alastair Corera, director of Orion Fund Management, said the
rebel attack had revived fears of more violence outside the
embattled northern and eastern regions.


"When there are no events (outside the northeast) people seem to
underestimate the risks that prevail, and incidents like this
remind us of the risks," Corera said.


The Sri Lanka Tourist Board was quick to calm holidaymakers and
rushed journalists to the international airport to show that
things were "normal."


"It is bad, (but) it could have been worse if the airport was
attacked," top tourism official Renton de Alwis said. "We hope
our partners (tour operators) will be with us."


The tourism industry, which saw an 18 percent drop in arrivals
last month due to harsh travel advisories from Britain and
Germany, is worried that visitors will continue to stay away.


Sri Lankans are already feeling the pinch of stepped-up military
action, with inflation exceeding 20 percent in January. The
government also raised defence spending by a whopping 45 percent,
to 1.3 billion dollars this year.


"I expect the government may have to spend more to replenish
military stocks this year," said Sarvananthan.


"It's a crucial year for the government and the Tigers, so we can
expect some spending on (the) military side," he added.


Sarvananthan said the attack could also help the rebels raise
more money abroad from the expatriate Tamil community.


"There was a sense of euphoria in Colombo that the Tigers were
only a few weeks away from being wiped out," a Western diplomat
said, summing up the mood in the capital before Monday's air
assault.


Government forces had been taking large parts of territory
previously held by the Tigers in the island's east and the
government has vowed to flush them out of the coastal region.


Official figures show the military has lost at least 1,050
personnel since the latest round of fighting erupted in December
2005. The two sides agreed to a Norwegian-arranged truce in 2002,
but successive talks broke down.

