

Steve McClaren's days as England manager appeared numbered on
Monday as he was forced to deny reports of a rift in his
relationship with Wayne Rooney against a background of claims he
could be sacked for a cut-price 2.5 million pounds (4.9 million
dollars).


According to media reports, Rooney was allegedly angered by
McClaren's decision to single him out for criticism in the
dressing room inquest after Saturday's disappointing goalless
draw with Israel.


Rooney reportedly responded by throwing his boots and kit at the
wall in frustration and the argument was so loud it could be
heard in the neighbouring Israel dressing room.


McClaren did not specifically deny that there had been a row but
insisted there was no rift between him and his star player, who
has not scored for his country in a competitive match since Euro
2004.


"What happens in the dressing room is private and I don't discuss
that," McClaren said on Monday. "But a rift between me and Wayne
Rooney is absolutely ridiculous.


"If it's true then you can accept it, but it's an absolute load
of rubbish. The belief and togetherness of the squad and the
staff has never been better.


"Everybody is together and knows what we have to do and we have
got to start doing it. We have to win against Andorra and we have
to win against Estonia.


"We still have to play Russia twice and Croatia at home. It
always boils down to these big games."


In emerged that McClaren's contract, which runs until 2010,
includes a clause which allows him to be dismissed in return for
a severance payment equivalent to one year's salary.


Less than a year since he stepped up from his position as deputy
to Sven-Goran Eriksson, McClaren knows the possibility of that
clause being activated has risen sharply as a result of a run in
which England have managed only one goal in five games -- their
worst run in 26 years.


The draw in Israel has left England five points behind Croatia,
the pacesetters in their Euro 2008 qualifying group, and three
adrift of Russia, who currently occupy the second qualifying
spot.


With home and away games against the Russians to come, England
remain masters of their own destiny and McClaren's job would
appear safe at least until the trip to Estonia in June.


The former Middlesbrough manager will however be concerned by the
apparent willingness of individuals within the Football
Association to leak confidential contractual details which can
only fuel speculation that an axe is being sharpened behind the
scenes.


McClaren's cause has certainly not been helped by the row with
Rooney becoming public and the head coach's public criticism of
his players' poor finishing can hardly have endeared him to the
likes of Frank Lampard and Andrew Johnson -- the players who
missed England's best chances.


England's players have not escaped criticism from the press, but
the media have largely focused on McClaren's inability or
unwillingness to innovate tactically during the match.


Most of the influential football writers who follow England have
long since concluded that McClaren is a natural number two who
has been promoted beyond his ability.


It seems England's hardcore fans, who responded to Saturday's
substitution of Aaron Lennon by Stewart Downing, with a chant of
'you don't know what you're doing' have arrived at a similar
conclusion and that will be worrying for the powerbrokers of the
FA.


England are the most valuable brand in international football.
That status has partly been built on the phenomenal global
success of the Premiership, but it is also underpinned by a
belief that England have good enough players to seriously
challenge for a major trophy.


If that faith is questioned, the brand suffers and signs that
McClaren is floundering in his role will trigger alarm bells at
FA headquarters.


With the cost of failure to reach the Euro 2008 finals estimated
at up to 100 million pounds (197 million dollars), McClaren's
bosses may soon conclude that the less expensive option of a pay-
off makes more sense.

