

A Pentagon probe has faulted nine officers, including as many as
four generals, in the handling of the "friendly fire" killing of
a football star-turned-soldier in Afghanistan, an army official
said Monday.


The Defense Department's acting inspector general Thomas Gimble
and the head of the army's criminal investigative command,
Brigadier General Rodney Johnson, were scheduled to present
findings Monday of their investigation into the April 22, 2004
killing of Pat Tillman.


Pentagon spokesmen would not comment on the findings but an army
official confirmed a report by CBS television late Friday that
they recommend that nine officers, including as many as four
generals, be held accountable for missteps in the handling of his
death.


"That's the number in the report," said the army official, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.


Tillman gave up a 3.6 million dollar contract as a defensive back
for the Arizona Cardinals to become an army ranger after the
September 11, 2001 attacks.


When he was mistakenly killed by fellow soldiers during a patrol
in eastern Afghanistan, the army initially portrayed him as
having died heroically in a battle with Taliban insurgents.


Weeks later the army said he had been killed by friendly fire
after an enemy ambush. An Afghan soldier with Tillman was also
killed in the incident.


Earlier investigations found Tillman's superiors covered up the
circumstances of his death and concealed the truth from Tillman's
brother Kevin, also an Army Ranger who was serving in the same
unit.


Those investigations found that Tillman frantically waved his
arms and shouted "friendlies" in a bid to alert colleagues to his
identity as they fired on him.


CBS reported on Friday that dozens of soldiers, including high
ranking officers at a nearby command post, knew within minutes or
hours that his death was fratricide.


The army, however, persisted in telling Tillman's family that he
died in an ambush until five weeks after his death, including at
his nationally televised memorial service.


His family have demanded a full accounting of their son's death
but have been skeptical of the army.


The latest findings come as the army is emerging from a scandal
over the care of wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Medical Center
in which the army secretary and two generals lost their jobs.


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates has vowed to hold military
leaders accountable when mistakes are made, placing particular
emphasis on cases where the welfare of troops and their families
are involved.


The army's acting secretary and its vice chief of staff scheduled
a briefing after the findings are presented to present the army's
response.

