

Wasps forward Lawrence Dallaglio on Monday called for radical
changes in the European Cup to allow more English players get a
chance to play top European rugby.


The 34-year-old former England captain believes that other
countries get more out of their players taking part in the
competition.


"Look at Ireland, Scotland and Wales - their top players play in
the tournament regularly," said Dallaglio.


"It benefits them internationally. But Jonny Wilkinson, for
example, has only played in it once in his career.


"Guys like Wilkinson should be playing in it every year.


"There are a number of others who have never played in it or
never will, while others play in it every year."


French clubs have threatened to boycott the competition unless
they are given a greater say in the way it is run.


And Dallaglio admitted that while a French withdrawal would be a
serious blow, England must consider the value of the Cup to their
own international ambitions.


"It would be very sad if the French pull out but one doesn't know
whether that's a genuine threat or whether it's a bit of
posturing," he said.


"Everyone talks about the Heineken Cup being great and it's great
for Ireland, Scotland, Italy and Wales. It's also great for
France because most of their players are concentrated over four
clubs.


"That imbalance is something the English really need to address
if we're going to move forward internationally, because it
clearly does not favour the international scene.


"England need to look very, very seriously at how the competition
helps their players.


"(Changes that benefit England) are not something the French or
Irish are going to vote for. England have to sort it out
internally first because no one will vote for England to get
stronger," said Dallaglio, ahead of Wasps crucial European Cup
quarter-final tie against Leinster on Saturday.


Dallaglio, who captained Wasps' 2004 Cup-winning side, admitted
the chance of playing European rugby was one of the reasons for
staying with the club.


"I'm at Wasps because I love the club and have always wanted to
win trophies, but trust me if they didn't qualify for the
Heineken Cup on a regular basis I wouldn't be here," he said.


"Two or three clubs like Leicester and Wasps qualify on a regular
basis, with the other places swapping between a number of other
clubs, and that's not really satisfactory."

