

The United States and its partners on Monday pushed for a
peaceful end to the dispute over Iran's nuclear programs, as
Washington warned Tehran against turning "a blind eye" to its
obligations.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino stressed that "there is no
intention of going to war with Iran" even as she scolded the
Islamic republic for saying it would curtail its cooperation with
the UN nuclear watchdog agency.


"We would urge them not to go down that road," Perino told
reporters after Tehran announced that step in retaliation after
the UN Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to widen
sanctions on Iran over its atomic ambitions.


The measures, agreed after days of behind-the-scenes bargaining,
block all Iranian arms exports and freeze the overseas assets of
28 additional officials and institutions linked to Iran's nuclear
and ballistic missile programs.


The council's action also restricts financial aid or loans to
Tehran, and sets a fresh 60-day deadline for Iran to comply with
UN demands to freeze uranium enrichment and reprocessing or face
"further appropriate measures."


The council's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France,
Russia, and the United States -- plus Germany have been pressing
Iran to return to talks aimed at allaying fears it seeks to
develop atomic weapons.


"We are united. Iran should suspend its enrichment and
reprocessing activities," said Perino, who chided Tehran for
refusing to do so and for curbing cooperation with the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).


"The Iranian regime, rather than comply with its UN Security
Council obligations, is turning a blind eye toward it and it's
unfortunate for the (Iranian) people," she said.


From Brussels, European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana
told the Islamic republic's lead negotiator, Ali Larijani, that
the international community sought a peaceful settlement to the
dispute.


Larijani for his part stressed Iran's wish also to resolve the
problem through negotiations, while adding that sanctions were
unacceptable, "Solana spokeswoman Cristina Gallach told AFP.


In Moscow, Russian President Vladimir Putin and visiting Chinese
President Hu Jintao said in a joint declaration that the volatile
issue "should be resolved exclusively in a peaceful way, through
negotiations."


"Russia and China will make every effort to ensure the rapid
start of negotiations to find a long-term, all-encompassing and
mutually acceptable resolution to the Iranian nuclear problem,"
the declaration said.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged Iran Sunday to accept an
offer of new talks, stressing: "If Iran is prepared to return to
the fold of the international community we are prepared to make
very generous offers to them."


And Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Kisliak said the
sanctions were "reversible" and emphasized "it is still possible
to resolve the Iranian question through political means,"
according to the Itar-Tass news agency.


Asked about a parallel dispute between London and Tehran over 15
British sailors Iran seized last week, Perino replied: "We share
the same concern and the outrage that (British) Prime Minister
(Tony) Blair has."


"You can be assured that we are in close contact with our British
allies. We strongly support the message that Tony Blair sent
yesterday, the strong message of the hostage-taking being wrong
and unjustified," said Perino.


It was some of the toughest language yet from the White House on
the sailors' fate, which Washington has declined to link to the
nuclear dispute.


After the Council approved the new sanctions, a Tehran government
spokesman said it would no longer inform the nuclear watchdog of
new installations until six months before they are brought into
service.


It was not immediately clear how this would affect attempts to
monitor work on a plant at Natanz in central Iran. Iran is
building in Natanz an industrial-scale plant to make enriched
uranium, which can be used for nuclear fuel or as atom bomb
material.


Diplomats said Iran's decision to stop giving immediate
notification of its nuclear plant building plans means Tehran
could now work on new strategic sites without informing the IAEA,
which could help Iranian authorities to hide facilities from
possible military air strikes.


The United States, which charges that Iran's nuclear energy
program is a cover for secretly developing nuclear weapons, has
not ruled out military action.

