

Whatever has gone wrong with England over the last six months,
Steve McClaren knows he cannot put it right against Andorra here
on Wednesday.


Even if England were to hit double figures against the tiny
principality, the pressure on their manager would ease off only a
fraction between now and his squad's next genuine test in their
Euro 2008 qualifying campaign, an end-of- season trip to Estonia.


Failure to beat Andorra, against whom England scored five without
reply in McClaren's first match in charge last year, is so
unthinkable that the manager will be able to claim no credit from
ending a winless run of five games in which his side have
produced a solitary goal.


A bit of target practice at Barcelona's Olympic stadium could
nonethless serve a valuable purpose for McClaren as he seeks to
rebuild the self-belief of a squad in which morale appears to be
disintegrating.


In the build-up to the match, McClaren could have done without
having to deny suggestions that a rift has developed between him
and Wayne Rooney, whose current difficulties in recapturing his
best form in an England shirt is one of the main reasons why the
team's supply of goals has dried up.


McClaren dismissed the claims as "an absolute load of rubbish,"
insisting that Rooney is one of the players to whom he is
closest.


But it was telling that the head coach did not deny that things
had got heated during the dressing room inquest into Saturday's
disappointing goalless draw in Israel, a reality which had in any
case already been confirmed by his captain, John Terry.


Instead, McClaren implied that frank exchanges reflected a
genuine willingness to address the mystery of why the likes of
Rooney, Frank Lampard and Steven Gerrard have, of late, rarely
transformed their club form to the international stage.


"Everybody is together and knows what we have to do and we have
got to start doing it," McClaren said.


Although they have slipped five points behind pacesetters Croatia
and have three points to make up on Russia, the team currently
occupying group E's second qualifying spot, England do still
retain control of their own destiny with seven matches left to
play, four of them at the rebuilt Wembley.


The home and away fixtures against Russia look like being
decisive and England's task may be eased if Croatia have already
secured qualification by the time they visit London on the final
night of qualifying in November.


"We still have to play Russia twice and Croatia at home," said
McClaren. "It always boils down to these big games."


The former Middlesbrough has endured a torrid time at the hands
of his increasingly outspoken critics in the press and among
England's hardcore supporters.


It cannot have been pleasant for him to have to listen to chants
of "you don't know what you're doing" or to realise he is being
dubbed "McClown" with increasing regularity.


But he remains as defiantly upbeat in his confidence that he can
turn things around as he was in suggesting that only poor
finishing denied England victory in Tel Aviv.


"My desire is greater than ever," he insisted. "Everybody knows
what we must do and we know in what direction we are going. The
players are as disappointed as everybody else, they understand
the fans reaction and they are desperate to put it right."


McClaren has already indicated that he will be making at least
one change to his line-up with Manchester City's Micah Richards
set to come in for Phil Neville at right-back now that he has
fully recovered from a calf strain that prevented him starting in
Israel.


He faces a trickier dilemma in attack however after another
uncertain display by Everton's Andrew Johnson.


Tottenham's Jermain Defoe feel he deserves a start alongside
Rooney but relegating Johnson to the subs bench once more could
further undermine a striker who has never looked over-endowed
with confidence in an England shirt.


Preston forward David Nugent is expected to see some action,
making him his club's first England player since Tom Finney won
his 79th and final cap in 1959, as well as the first outfield
player from outside the top flight to represent the country in
eight years.

