

It's not just cricket fans in India who are mourning the team's
World Cup demise.


The country's army of backstreet barbers and high-class salon
stylists are also in a state of shock after seeing a lucrative
sideline dry up as soon as Rahul Dravid's men made their early
exit in the Caribbean.


On the eve of the World Cup, fans flocked to have their hair dyed
in the colours of the Indian flag while others boasted curls
which had been encouraged to imitate the trophy itself.


Some opted for a style in the manner of wicketkeeper Mahender
Singh Dhoni who may be thinking of a new look himself to disguise
a campaign which was so poor that his house was attacked by irate
fans.


"I have had a cut showing India's map, Ganguly batting, a bat and
ball and a pitch with two stumps," one fan in Mumbai, Bhola
Sardar, told reporters before the 2007 tournament turned sour.


In a cricket-crazy country like India, hairstyles attract as much
discussion as a forward defensive.


Spinner Harbhajan Singh came under fire when he appeared in an
advertisement with his hair uncovered. Harbhajan apologised but
protestors still burnt his effigy in Amritsar.


Virender Sehwag has seen his receding hairline debated while
Dhoni once went for a haircut near his Ranchi home and such was
the clamour to see him that police were called to protect the
player.


With India gone, it's Sri Lanka seamer Lasith Malinga's turn in
the spotlight with his bleached-blond hairstyle proving as photo-
friendly as his curious low- slung round-arm action.


Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody says Malinga has been performing
extremely well in recent months, but doesn't think it's the new
hairstyle that has brought him luck.


"He he has had many hairstyles over the past 12 months and you
never know what it will be tomorrow," Moody said of Malinga who
also sports a silver ring in his left eyebrow.


In recent years, England have had their own barber on tour.


Manchester-based Ron Keeling has counted Andrew Flintoff, Ian
Botham and Michael Atherton among his clients. He has even had
Shane Warne in his chair.


He was not responsible, however, for Kevin Pietersen's decision
to apply a blond streak to his hair in 2005, which was compared
in some quarters to a dead racoon.


"Not one of mine," Keeling told the BBC.


"Everything has trends and hairdressing is like life - it
revolves. And we're talking about it. So that's got to be good."

