

The German EU presidency on Monday voiced its support for UN
envoy Martti Ahtisaari's vision of supervised independence for
the breakaway Serbian province of Kosovo, saying it will enhance
stability.


Ahtisaari formally handed over his proposals for Kosovo's future
to the UN Security Council earlier Monday, recommending
independence as the only option, an idea already fiercely opposed
by Belgrade and Moscow.


"The presidency of the European Union strongly supports the
proposal put forward by the former president of Finland. His
proposal for a Kosovo status settlement is designed to foster the
building of a multi-ethnic, democratic society in Kosovo based on
the rule of law," the EU presidency, currently held by Germany,
said in a statement.


Ahtisaari's plan "contains wide-ranging provisions intended to
secure the future of all communities in Kosovo, including notably
the Kosovo Serbs. It lays the foundation for sustainable economic
and political development in Kosovo and will enhance stability
throughout the region," the statement added.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb forces
carrying out a brutal crackdown on the majority ethnic Albanians.


Serbia, which views Kosovo as the birthplace of its civilization,
rejects any independence for its southern province, while Kosovo
Albanians want to break all links with Serbia.


The EU presidency stressed that the Kosovo question was handed
over to the Security Council only after "almost twelve months of
intensive direct talks between Belgrade and Pristina that started
in February 2006 and which produced no agreement on key issues".


"The presidency of the European Union believes that the proposal
is a fair and balanced compromise that points the way forward for
Kosovo."


The statement added the hope that "the Security Council will live
up to its responsibility and hopes that it will endorse the
proposal in a timely manner".


Under the Ahtisaari plan there will be an International Civilian
Representative who will have "strong corrective powers" to ensure
the agreement is successfully implemented and will be the
"ultimate supervisory authority" over the implementation while
having no direct role in the administration of Kosovo. The IPR
will be an EU special representative.


He or she will be aided by a NATO-led military mission and an EU
police force which will "monitor, mentor and advise on all areas
related to the rule of law".


Earlier Monday EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana told
reporters in Brussels that "we continue to support the proposals
and work of president Ahtisaari."


"What is now important is that the Security Council will be in a
position to take its repsonsibility sooner rather than later," he
added.


The future status must yet be approved by the UN Security
Council.

