

A banking dispute that stalled North Korean nuclear disarmament
talks could be resolved in a couple of days despite complex
technical problems, the chief US envoy to the negotiations said
Monday.


The US Treasury is working with Beijing to transfer 25 million
dollars frozen in 2005 in Macau's Banco Delta Asia, which the
United States suspects are North Korea's proceeds from
counterfeiting and money laundering.


Christopher Hill, the top US envoy to the six-party nuclear
talks, said that, based on his discussions with a senior US
Treasury official in Beijing, the dispute could end this week,
paving the way for North Korea to shut down its main nuclear
reactor and allow back into the country UN International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors.


"As we get through this banking issue -- I believe we will in the
next couple of days -- North Korea will have further discussions
with the IAEA and by early part of April -- certainly by the
first half of April -- we will have the reactor shut down, sealed
and we will have international inspectors back," Hill told a
Washington forum.


Pyongyang has agreed to admit IAEA inspectors as part of an
agreement by the United States, Russia, China, the two Koreas and
Japan on February 13 setting a timetable for the North to begin
disarming.


The US effectively blacklisted the Macau bank on suspicion it was
handling the proceeds of North Korean counterfeiting and money-
laundering, but Washington cleared the way for the release of the
funds as part of the nuclear accord.


However the fund's designated recipient, state-owned Bank of
China, has allegedly refused to accept the money for fear the
transaction may hurt its credit rating.


The latest round of six-party disarmament talks ended abruptly in
Beijing last Thursday after Pyongyang refused to negotiate until
it received the cash.


Daniel Glaser, the US Treasury's deputy assistant secretary for
terrorist financing and financial crimes, flew to Beijing at the
weekend and held talks with officials from China's foreign
ministry, the central bank and the country's banking industry
regulator in a bid to break the financial impasse.


"I have talked to him (Glaser), he is working very hard but it is
a difficult process and there are a lot of technical problems
which were unforeseen by everybody, including me," Hill told
reporters after the forum.


"But we want to get it done so that the North Koreans will have
no excuse" but to shut down the Yongbyon reactor by the middle of
April as scheduled.


On reported reluctance by the Chinese authorities to receive what
they feared was "tainted" money, Hill said, "I don't want to say
the Chinese government do not want to receive the money.


"The Chinese banking sector is going through a lot of changes,
how the Chinese banks interact with the Chinese government is
changing by the day. It is not so easy," he said.


Hill said it was wrong for the North Koreans "to hold up nuclear
talks over a demand that the 25 million dollars be received in a
bank account ahead of time.


"I think it is a very, very wrong-headed approach," he said.

