

Environment ministers from Austria, Iceland, Ireland and Norway
said Monday that nuclear power was not the solution to global
warming.


In a joint statement following a meeting in Dublin, the four
ministers from the non-nuclear countries said the "inherent risks
and problems associated with the nuclear energy option remain and
it can not therefore claim to be a clean alternative to fossil
fuel use."


They said it was the sovereign right of each country to decide
its own energy mix.


"However, for Ireland, Iceland, Norway, and Austria, we voice
serious concern that nuclear energy is being presented as a
solution to climate change.


"It is our collective view that the current debate seeks to
downplay the environmental, waste, proliferation, nuclear
liability and safety issues and seeks to portray nuclear energy
as a clean, safe and problem free response to climate change."


The statement said the trans-boundary nature of health and
environment risks associated with nuclear energy dictated that
governments in countries with nuclear power needed to ensure that
other countries' concerns were taken into consideration.


"The specific international liability regimes currently in place
for the nuclear industry do not provide full scope compensation
for potential damage or injury and provide a hidden subsidy to
that industry," the ministers said.


After 50 years of nuclear power, waste remains the most
intractable issue, they added.


"The legacy of the nuclear industry for many generations to come
continues to increase with little evidence of any real
implementation of necessary long term solutions to the waste
issue.


"Nuclear waste reprocessing, advocated as a solution to the
management of nuclear waste, has long since lost its lustre and
today the industry remains economically and environmentally
untenable."


They said that reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel represents a
key source of pollution risks and remains a significant source of
radioactive pollution and called on Britain not to re-open the
THORP plant at its Sellafield site.


The ministers announced that a further meeting would take place
in Vienna in late 2007.

