

National Football League (NFL) commissioner Roger Goodell told
club owners here Monday that tougher discipline is needed for the
growing number of players who run afoul of the law.


Goodell set a tone at his state of the NFL address in the opening
session of annual owners meetings, which is also expected to see
debate on revenue sharing and minor rule changes.


"The most critical issue we face is dealing with the misconduct
of a small group of players and the negative publicity it
generates for the league," Goodell said. "All of us have to do
all we can to eliminate these incidents."


A policy to impose harsher punishments faster is likely to help
confront a series of incidents involving players, including a
humiliating nine Cincinnati Bengals players arrested on charges
from weapons violations to drunken driving.


Bengals receiver Chris Henry has been arrested four times in the
last three years while Tennessee cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones
is facing serious charges and Chicago defensive tackle Tank
Johnson is serving four months in jail.


Goodell met with NFL Players Association officials in
Indianapolis last month and cited Indianapolis Colts center Jeff
Saturday's comments on the matter in his talk to owners.


"Players care dearly about our league and how it is perceived and
support taking aggressive steps," Goodell said. "Jeff Saturday
said it best when he said, 'We want to leave the game as better
men as well as better players.'


"I think most of our players feel that way."


Punishment of players whose cases have not yet received a legal
verdict is likely to make any policy difficult but owners agree
that more discipline is needed and the NFL must take what action
is permitted.


"Everyone agrees you have to have increased discipline, but you
have to take legal issues into account on how quickly you can act
and you have to take into account the form of discipline to
take," New York Giants co-owner John Mara said.


Jones, suspended one game last season for a series of off-field
incidents, faces felony and misdemeanor charges of obstructing
police in Georgia from an incident in February of last year.


"Pacman" was alsointerviewed by police after a triple shooting at
a Las Vegas strip club last month that left one victim with a
severed spinal cord.  The club co-owner said Jones was a friend
of the shooter.


Johnson is in jail for violating probation. He was arrested on
December 14 and charged with 10 counts of possession of firearms
without a proper permit after a police raid at his home during
which six guns were seized.


Johnson, who needed court permission to travel to Florida for the
Super Bowl, has been arrested three times in the last 18 months
and his December arrest was ruled a violation of probation from a
2005 gun charge.


Revenue sharing, which helped build the league into a US sport
powerhouse since its 1960s inception, will be a major subject of
debate as some teams try to restrict the amount they lose and
rivals gain under league rules.


In rules moves, owners will consider moving overtime kickoffs
from the usual 30-yard line to the 35 after competition committee
co-chairman Rick McKay said the kickoff spot was the main reason
62 percent of teams winning the overtime coin toss won extra-
period games in 2006.


It takes 24 of 32 owners, 75 percent, to pass a rule change.

