

Rio Ferdinand has jumped to the defence of embattled England
manager Steve McClaren, insisting he is "doing all he can" to try
and find a solution to England's problems.


Defender Ferdinand believes that the team and not the manager are
at fault as they head to Barcelona for Wednesday's Euro 2008
qualifier bidding to end a five-game winless run against minnows
Andorra.


"I think, even before the boss came in, we weren't consistently
playing to our capabilities, to our potential," he said.


"Many of these players in the squad could walk into any other
team in Europe - if not the world - but we've not been able to do
that over a consistent period.


"The manager we've got now is doing all he can to find the
answers to all the questions that arise from Sven-Goran
Eriksson's era and his own period (in charge).


"But the players have got to take some responsibility as well.
The manager can do it any way he wants but if we're not
performing right then it's not going to happen.


"I think a lot of us haven't been performing how we perform for
our clubs. It's been, here and there, high-class performances
from individuals but not as a collective team.


"The first half against Sweden in the opening group of the World
Cup last summer was a great performance but, other than that,
there hasn't been a stand-up performance.


"It is a strange. There have been solid performances. We all
strive to be the best and do as well as we can.


"You see players week in, week out doing unbelievable world class
things for their clubs but sometimes it doesn't work out
collectively for England.


"That's the difference between a great team and a team that are
nearly there."


Ferdinand believes Italy are the prime example of players
performing as a team when they lifted the World Cup last summer
with a side not littered with star names.


He said: "It's about us getting the right mix and blend when
we're all together and putting it together at the right time. You
saw that with Italy at the World Cup.


"They all performed to a high level, especially in the latter
stages. There wasn't a stand-out player for them that was head
and shoulders above the rest, but they all performed, solid eight
out of 10 performances."

