

Carved out from the scrub and jungle two-and-a-half years ago,
Myanmar's new seat of government is eerily quiet, with dusty
hills dominating the vista and few people on the eight-lane
highways.


Every morning, civil servants pour out of their tall, pastel-
coloured and identical apartment blocks in "Residential Zones"
and pack into buses which ferry them to their workplaces, most
likely in the "Ministry Zone."


At night, City Hall and other government buildings are
illuminated by yellow, green and red lights, giving the city the
look of a funfair after all the revellers have gone.


Myanmar's isolation from the international community rivals North
Korea, with rights groups and Western governments saying it has
one of the world's most dismal records on human rights.


The capital Naypyidaw, which translates as "the abode of kings,"
is where the government relocated after abruptly announcing it
was vacating Yangon, formerly known as Rangoon.


Officials insist there was nothing sinister behind the move,
which has been variously attributed to astrological predictions
or an attempt by the ruling junta to further isolate itself.


Information Minister Kyaw Hsan says 924,608 people now live in
Naypyidaw, which the government claims covers more than 7,000
square kilometres (2,800 square miles) -- roughly the size of the
US state of Delaware, or 10 times bigger than Singapore -- in
central Myanmar.


The most visible people are construction workers, toiling by the
roadside to finish the remaining grandiose buildings in one year.
Armed soldiers also dot the highways.


The parliament building stands incomplete but there is no one to
sit there anyway.


The government never recognised elections won by Aung San Suu
Kyi's National League for Democracy in 1990, and has yet to
announce new polls.


Most of the new capital appears complete however, and is divided
into zones, with kilometres (miles) of new, smooth highway -- a
rarity in Myanmar where infrastructure is poor -- linking the
sparsely placed buildings.


In the "Ministry Zone," pastel pink and blue-coloured buildings
emerge as if by magic from the bush. They are all nearly
identical in design and colour, but some already show signs of
wear and tear.


The "Hotel Zone" is for once full, with foreign reporters packing
the handful of villa-style hotels that dot the hills on the
outskirts of town.


The most elusive area is the "Military Zone," where the horse-
and-buggies that jaunt along most streets are replaced by luxury
cars and uniformed men on motorcycles.


Flags flying the colours of different military units flap in the
wind beneath garishly coloured arches carrying the military logo.


Buildings can be seen on the distant hills and many roads are
out-of-bounds, with few residents knowing where they lead.


However, this sprawling city is growing, with small business
owners reporting a huge increase in customers since last year and
curious Myanmar residents from elsewhere also keen to see their
new capital.


"Compared with Yangon it is not much to see, but it will be more
in the future," said one Yangon-based construction worker, in
Naypyidaw for the first time visiting friends.


For the moment, entertainment is sparse. A 36-hole golf course is
currently under construction for the well-to-do, but for most an
evening out involves heading to the new restaurants in Myoma
Market or staying in.


"For entertainment there are 10 TV channels free of charge. In
Yangon only four channels are free of charge," Kyaw Hsan boasted.


People can also visit the nearby towns of Lewe, Pyinmana and
Takon, which were populated with loggers and their families
before Naypyidaw was carved out of the jungle on their doorstep.


Kya Kya Mar, 31, who runs a bra shop in Myoma Market, shrugs when
asked what she does for fun in the evenings.


"I have no interests. I have my job and my child," she says,
adding that she likes life in Naypyidaw because it is safe and
every morning the authorities pick up her daughter and ferry her
to the newly built school.


Kyaw Hsan said the city will be complete in a year, with all the
buildings constructed and road and rail links improved.


"Creating the capital green and pleasant is important, so it will
take time," he told reporters.

