

Democratic Republic of Congo President Joseph Kabila on Monday
defended the use of force to quash what he described as an armed
rebellion by militia loyal to former vice president Jean-Pierre
Bemba.


"Order had to be restored at any cost," Kabila said after deadly
clashes last week in the capital Kinshasa that left 155 dead and
150 seriously wounded, according to a new toll from aid agency
Caritas.


In his first statement since the fighting, the 35-year-old said
that Bemba's fighters had been intent on seizing control of the
capital, and that the dispute was military rather than political.


"You do not guarantee security through negotiation," he told
reporters, in an apparent response to calls from the United
Nations, the African Union and various countries for dialogue.


About 2,000 troops had fought Bemba's 700 fighters in the Gombe
district of the capital on Thursday and Friday.


Bemba, who lost the landmark presidential election in October to
Kabila, had refused to have his vice-presidential bodyguard
integrated into the regular army, arguing that his personal
security could not be guaranteed.


The former rebel leader took refuge in the South African embassy
in Kinshasa on Thursday.


Kabila accused him of trying to put himself above the law. "It
was totally unacceptable ... and the law has put him in his
place," he added.


But he refused to say what would happen to his former vice-
president, saying that a "judicial procedure" had been launched.


The government on Friday said that Bemba was being charged with
high treason. Most of his fighters have fled or agreed to join
government forces, but 107 took refuge at the United Nations
mission here, the UN said.


Bemba for his part said he was prepared to go into exile if his
security could not be guaranteed by Kinshasa.


In an interview with the Paris daily Le Monde he accused Kabila
of wanting to "get rid" of him.


"We are at a turning point in our history, because if they
continue to decapitate the opposition, a new dictatorship will be
established," he said.


But Kabila denied any intention of making DR Congo a one-party
state.


"I would be the last person to violate the constitution. Setting
up a single party smacks of high treason," he said.


The MLC on Monday condemned what they called "threats" against
Bemba and called for "acts of intimidation and arbitrary arrests
of certain members and militants of the MLC as well as of
peaceful citizens to end."


The party said it was "necessary and urgent for a political
solution to the crisis to be found in order to preserve the still
fragile democratic process in the country."


Kabila also dismissed out of hand speculation that his military
had had a helping hand from foreign troops to subdue the
opposition after witnesses said they had seen soldiers wearing
Angolan uniforms during the fighting.


The United States on Monday said it condemned the violence,
calling on leaders to respect peaceful democratic processes.


"This violence represents a setback in the progress the Congolese
people expect and deserve after last year's historic elections,"
US State Department spokesman Tom Casey said in a statement.


"The government will now have to show it can be responsible," a
Western diplomat in Kinshasa said Sunday.


"If you are going to have a rule of law the opposition must be
allowed to exist without being threatened or fearing a witch-
hunt."


Kinshasa newspapers Monday welcomed the end of the conflict but
expressed worries about the future of democracy in DR Congo,
which last year saw its first democratic elections after decades
of dictatorship, kleptocracy and war.


"We want peace, but this is not possible without everyone
(working for it)," said Tshisuaka, an employee of a security
company in Kinshasa.


"The important thing is to see people getting back on with things
after such awful scenes," he said.

