

Australian David Hicks pleaded guilty to a charge of supporting
terrorism before a US military tribunal in Guantanamo Bay on
Monday, five years after he was detained in Afghanistan.


Looking somber with his hands clasped in front of him, Hicks, 31,
stood beside his military lawyer who told the judge his client
would not contest the charge of providing "material support for
terrorism."


Dressed in khaki prison garb and sporting chest-length hair,
Hicks was escorted by two stocky unarmed soldiers who allowed him
to sit with his lawyers without shackles or handcuffs.


The plea came a day after defense lawyers said Hicks was weighing
a possible plea deal that could get him out of the US Navy prison
for "war on terror" detainees.


The chief prosecutor for the tribunals had said previously that a
20-year sentence would be a "reasonable" punishment for Hicks. It
was not immediately clear if US military authorities would take
into account his five years served at the Guantanamo prison.


Hicks was captured in 2001 by the US-backed Northern Alliance in
Afghanistan, and handed over to the United States, which
eventually transferred him to Guantanamo, on Cuba's southeastern
tip.


The plea, entered at a hastily arranged hearing late Monday,
followed a three- hour hearing, which was supposed to clear the
way for a trial against Hicks before a special US military
tribunal.


Hicks was the first detainee to be charged before the new
tribunals, which were reconstituted under a new law after a
previous tribunal system was tossed out by the US Supreme Court
last year.


Hicks was accused of training at Al-Qaeda's camp in Kandahar,
southern Afghanistan and allegedly volunteering to fight
alongside Taliban forces during the US-led invasion.


The charge sheet does not allege Hicks attacked a US target, but
says he conducted surveillance on the derelict US embassy in
Kabul and met Osama bin Laden as well as accused "shoe bomber"
Richard Reid.


The Hicks case has became a major political issue in Australia,
with the conservative government lobbying Washington to expedite
the case.


Defense lawyers had said the Australian government had pushed
much harder on the case in the past year after being accused of
failing to intervene to protect one of its citizens.


One of his lawyers, Australian David McLeod, had said on Sunday
that years of detention had taken a toll on his client and that a
plea deal might be attractive.


"He's had a pretty rough trod over three to five years. And if it
was yourself, I suspect you would be thinking about how to get
out of this place," said McLeod.


What was to be a routine procedural hearing Monday turned into a
tense exchange when the military judge, Colonel Ralph Kohlmann,
disqualified two civilian defense lawyers.


The judge said US lawyer Joshua Dratel could only represent Hicks
in the tribunal if he signed an agreement on rules governing the
defense counsel.


Dratel refused, saying the judge's text was illegal.


A second civilian lawyer, Rebecca Snyder, was told to step aside
until she changed her reserve status in the military.


A former horse trainer in the Australian outback and kangaroo
skinner, Hicks looked heavier since his last appearance two years
ago.


Before the hearing, Hicks visited with his father and sister, his
first contact with family since 2004. The tearful reunion lasted
two hours.


"There were handshakes, hugs and tears," Terry Hicks told
reporters, saying his son had deteriorated during his detention.
"He looks bloody terrible."


Condemned by human rights groups as a "law-free zone," the
tribunals allow hearsay, evidence obtained through "coercion" and
bar detainees from appealing their detention in US courts.


But chief prosecutor Morris Davis compared the system to
warcrimes trials for the former Yugoslavia or Rwanda.


"I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of here at
Guantanamo Bay," Davis told reporters Sunday.

