

Doom and gloom are stark reality for the Lebanese, even on stage
and screen. Plays and films now showing in Beirut reflect the
deep disappointment of a nation continuously mired in strife and
torment.


"My play highlights the continued ordeal of the Lebanese," said
Elie Karam, director of "Shlah al-Tarboosh" -- "Take off your
Fez" in Arabic -- which is now playing at the leading Al-Madina
theatre.


Lebanon has been in turmoil for the past two years, with many
fearing that the political crisis that sparked deadly riots in
January could plunge the country back into violence similar to
that witnessed during the 1975-1990 civil war.


"The play is about people who have been killed for nothing
throughout Lebanese history," Karam told AFP.


"These people were killed just because they happened to be in the
wrong place at the wrong time. They were killed because of
religious and tribal disputes, as well as over money and regional
conflicts," he said.


"This play is dedicated to those who want to change the course of
their own history."


Karam's play tells the modern history of Lebanon through the
story of a single family, beginning in 1916 when a member of a
group of nationalists is hanged by the occupying Ottoman
authorities in Beirut's central Martyrs' Square.


All that is left after his execution is a blood-red Tarboosh, or
the symbol of dignity, honour and identity.


His descendants also suffer similarly tragic fates.


Each is forced to lose his or her dignity, honour and identity
under the French mandate, the 1958 civil strife and the 1975-1990
civil war during which "martyrs" continue to fall and lose their
Tarboosh.


His granddaughter ends up becoming a flight attendant, circling
the world with a suitcase, in a metaphor for the young people of
Lebanon who have emigrated en masse in a bid to flee their
country's chronic problems.


The title of director Rabih Mroue's new play, "April Fools,"
refers to the outbreak of the 15-year Lebanese civil war in April
1975.


The production, which opens this month at the international
theatre festival in Tokyo and will later be staged in Paris,
brings back to life "martyrs" who were killed during the civil
war and whose portraits continue to adorn the walls of Beirut.


The victims ask themselves whether it was really worth losing
their lives for such "miserable results," a reference to the
continued divisions in Lebanon and fears of a return to civil
strife.


In her documentary "Chronicles of Beirut," film-maker May Masri
focuses on the disappointment of activists who took part in the
tent-city mass protests that followed the 2005 murder of former
prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


The movie, which is being screened in Beirut after winning an
award from Paris's prestigious Institut du Monde Arabe, reveals
the "truths and lies" behind the camp which was lifted after the
forced pullout of Syrian troops from Lebanon.


"The (Lebanese) politicians manipulated us in order to remain in
power," complains the main character in the documentary, Nadine
Zeidan.


Legislative elections which followed the Syrian withdrawal
allowed nearly all of the politicians who had been MPs under
Damascus domination to return to parliament.


In the one-man-show "Jirsa," or "Scandal" in Arabic, actor Rafiq
Ali Ahmad plays the part of a Lebanese man seeking to emigrate to
Canada because of his despair at the sectarianism and corruption
plaguing his home country.


On a sombre stage at the Russian cultural centre in Beirut, the
man accuses Lebanon's rulers of "leading the people to the
slaughterhouse."


He complains that the country's population is treated "like a
bull in the ring heading for the final showdown."

