

One year after bursting onto the political scene with an
ambitious plan to redraw Israel's borders, Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert today faces a historic low in public support over the war
in Lebanon, a myriad of corruption scandals and a bleak
diplomatic horizon.


After his centrist Kadima party won a quarter of the seats in
parliament in last year's March 28 elections, Olmert planned to
end the decades-long conflict with the Palestinians by
dismantling dozens of settlements and withdrawing troops from
most of the occupied West Bank.


But today his political future is at best dim after what is
regarded here as a year of failures -- only two percent of
Israelis trust their premier, more than two-thirds want him to
resign and most also favour early elections.


"I am a very unpopular prime minister," Olmert conceded recently.


Plans to begin talks with the Palestinians were shelved after the
new Palestinian government led by the radical Hamas movement was
sworn in on the same day of the 2006 Israeli elections.


Despite increased international efforts, many here see slim
chances of a breakthrough in the peace process, as Israel refuses
to have contacts with the new Palestinian unity government whose
platform falls short of recognising the Jewish state's right to
exist.


"I cannot see any real diplomatic alternative on the Palestinian
front in the near future -- there is no one to talk to," Trade
and Industry Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Eli Yishai of the
Shas party told AFP.


After Hamas's stunning victory, Olmert faced further challenges
last summer when Palestinian militants seized an Israeli soldier
near Gaza and within three weeks Hezbollah also captured two
servicemen in northern Israel.


In Gaza, Israel launched a sustained, punishing five-month
military campaign that killed some 400 Palestinians and wreaked
havoc on infrastructure in the coastal strip, but still failed to
retrieve Corporal Gilad Shalit.


In Lebanon, Israel launched a 34-day war that left 1,200 Lebanese
and 160 Israelis dead, sowed destruction in southern Lebanon and
northern Israel, but failed to free the two soldiers or to stem
Hezbollah rocket fire.


The perceived failures of the war led to a wave of public protest
demanding the heads of Olmert and other senior officials.


"The war was an extremely unexpected event that had a strong
influence on the public's mood and Israel's strategic position,"
which was eroded by the face-off with Hezbollah, a senior
government official told AFP.


It also forced Olmert to scrap his plan to unilaterally withdraw
from the West Bank, effectively leaving his government without
its main platform.


"The war ruined many of our plans. One of them was our ability to
continue the diplomatic thrust on the Palestinian front," said
Kadima MP Otniel Schneller, one of Olmert's closest allies.


"All the social changes we wanted and began to implement vanished
after the war," minister Eli Yishai said.


If during the war the Israeli public offered its government
almost wall-to-wall backing, today Olmert and his ministers
tensely await the results of a government inquiry into the
conflict, which may be the final nail in the coffin of Olmert's
political future.


Olmert's standing has been further weakened by a string of
scandals involving him, some of his closest allies and senior
government figures.


His close cabinet ally Haim Ramon was forced to resign as justice
minister after being found guilty of sexual misconduct. Another
close friend, Finance Minister Avraham Hirshson, is suspected of
graft.


Olmert alone is currently under investigation over two alleged
illegal real estate deals, and an alleged attempt to fix a public
tender for his associates.


"The investigations and the alleged corruption scandals dealt us
a severe blow and hurt our image," Schneller told AFP.


A sense of frustration within Olmert's entourage is increased by
the current economic upswing in Israel -- the economy grew by 5.1
percent over the past year.


"The biggest paradox is that the public clearly knows this has
been an excellent economic year. Instead of talking about our
power and strength, the public debate does not reflect reality,"
the government official said.

