

Australia welcomed Tuesday's guilty plea by Guantanamo Bay inmate
David Hicks as a chance to bring the long row over his
incarceration to an end, but critics of US justice slammed it as
desperation.


"I'm pleased for everybody's sake that this saga has come to a
conclusion," Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.


Hicks, 31, pleaded guilty at a US military tribunal to providing
material support for terrorism after defence lawyers said he was
weighing a plea deal that could get him out of Guantanamo Bay.


Downer noted that Hicks could be back in Australia soon under a
prisoner exchange deal.


"We have an arrangement with the Americans whereby he can serve
any residue of his sentence in an Australian prison," he added.


The Muslim convert has spent more than five years at the US-run
prison in Cuba for "war on terror" detainees after being captured
in Afghanistan in 2001 during the US-led invasion which overthrew
the Taliban regime.


A former kangaroo skinner, Hicks was accused of undergoing
training at an Al- Qaeda camp in Afghanistan and volunteering to
fight alongside the Taliban during the invasion.


Hicks was the first detainee to be charged before special new US
military tribunals, which were reconstituted after a previous
system was tossed out by the US Supreme Court last year.


His case became a huge political issue in Australia, with polls
showing the public growing increasingly angered by his detention
without trial.


The conservative government of Prime Minister John Howard, a
close ally of US President George W. Bush, is facing an election
later this year and began pressing Washington to expedite the
case.


"First of all there was the view that Hicks clearly couldn't have
done anything wrong, and we hate the Americans and all of that,"
Downer said, summing up Australian views of the case.


"There were people who thought David Hicks should just be strung
up, he was obviously a horror.


"And there were people in the middle, which is where I was,
really. My view was always that the legal process had just taken
far too long."


But the leader of the Greens Party, Senator Bob Brown, said
Hicks' plea was "simply a plea for release, for exit from the
inhumane Guantanamo gulag."


"It is a shameful day in Australian legal history that this
government has abandoned the rule of law as we know it in
Australia and left Australia in the undignified position of
appearing to support this trumped-up kangaroo court at Guantanamo
Bay," Brown said.


He was backed by the Australian Democrats, which called the
guilty plea "a desperate act by a desperate man".


"This seems the only way David Hicks can escape the hell hole of
Guantanamo Bay," said the party's foreign affairs spokeswoman,
Senator Natasha Stott Despoja.


Hicks "will come back as a guilty man who has never had a fair
trial," she said.


But Justice Minister David Johnston said the plea was a serious
step and undermined arguments that Hicks had simply been an
adventurous but misguided young man.


"I am just saying there's a stark contrast between him being a
theological tourist and pleading guilty to aiding terrorists," he
said.

