

The effects of the traumatic 1997 Asian financial crisis continue
to be felt in some of the countries hardest hit by it and
corruption may be a factor holding back investment in some areas,
the Asian Development Bank said Tuesday.


"The effects of the crisis have not been completely erased,"
especially in the five countries worst hit, that is  Indonesia,
the Philippines, Malaysia, South Korea and Thailand, the Manila-
based bank said in its annual Asian development Outlook report.


It said gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the five was cut
by an average 2.5 percentage points a year in the 2000-2006
period compared to 1990-1996.


"The persistence of such a gap implies large permanent losses of
income compared to pre-crisis levels. Indeed, if the impacts of
the crisis on income levels are to prove transitory, a period of
faster than 'normal' growth would be required to compensate for
the output 'lost' during the crisis years."


It urged Indonesia and the Philippines to improve "the quality
and performance of key institutions that influence investor
perceptions about uncertainties, risks, and the costs of doing
business."


Policy and regulatory risks, as well as the costs of corruption,
are often cited as factors for Indonesia while "governance issues
are to the fore" as well in the Philippines where "contract
enforcement, corruption, and crime and security are of particular
concern."


Their investment ratings remain below that of the international
setting despite improved macroeconomic management.


"It may be that earlier reforms need more time to gain traction
but the presence of deeply embedded institutional constraints,
including high levels of corruption, may slow progress even
then."


However, the ADB said the slowing in South Korea "most probably
reflects lower potential at elevated income levels" and that had
the crisis not occurred, investment and growth rates "would have
probably decelerated of their own volition."


Labor force growth in all five countries save Thailand showed
slower trends, while investment rates "declined steeply" after
the crisis and have since been "broadly flat, showing little
inclination to the levels seen in the precrisis period.


"In fact, declining capital productivity in Indonesia, (South)
Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand would require higher investment
rates to deliver the same growth."


The report concluded that "firms and investors may now be more
circumspect than a decade ago" as indicated by rapidly falling
debt-to-equity ratios and slow growth of credit to the private
sector.


It said the circumstances in the five countries were different,
with South Korea's situation "consistent with the maturation that
occurs as income levels approach those of the richest countries
in the world."


In Malaysia and Thailand's case, investment rates are possibly
"too low," due perhaps to increased uncertainty and bottlenecks
in skilled technical and scientific workers, among others.


It suggested there was a "mismatch" between worker supply and
relevant skills in these countries, which it said also need to
improve their regulatory environments.

