

Athletic Bilbao are a legendary name in Spanish football but
their historic status as one of only three ever-present members
of the Spanish first division is in grave danger.


Along with Spanish giants Barcelona and Real Madrid, Athletic
have never been relegated from the top flight since La Liga was
inaugurated in 1928 but they currently lie third from bottom.


"There are still a lot of points to be fought for. I am just
looking forward and we have to have faith that there will be
salvation," said club president Ana Urquijo.


The 50-year-old lawyer, the first female president of the club,
does not want to go down in Athletic history as the being in the
hot seat when the unthinkable happened.


Signs that all was not well at Athletic date back to last season
when they were in the relegation zone for the first half of the
campaign only for Spanish national coach Javier Clemente to be
drafted in and guide them to safety.


Clemente, who was at the helm when Athletic won back-to-back
league titles in 1983 and 1984, left last summer to become the
Serbian national coach.


His successors, firstly Felix Sarriugarte and more recently Mane
Esnal, have been unable to stop the rot.


"Our situation is difficult and complicated. It's not going to be
easy to crawl out of this position. We keep making the same
mistakes," admitted a despondent Mane.


If Athletic do go down then it will have huge reverberations
across the Spanish football community.


The club has won the Spanish title eight times, more than any
other club apart from Barcelona and the Madrid pair of Atletico
and Real, and Athletic have lifted the Spanish Cup on 23
occasions.


However, for many Basques, Athletic is more than a football club.


It is a potent symbol of their identity.


The San Mames stadium, the oldest in the Spanish first division
which has existed since 1913, was one of the few places where the
Basque language could be openly spoken during the reign of the
dictator Francisco Franco for 36 years until his death in 1975.


The club was formed by Englishmen, among them miners from
Sunderland and shipyard workers from Southampton whose red and
white strips led indirectly to Athletic's colours, but since 1912
the club has only had players of Basque origin.


The policy has been open to interpretation at times.


Current midfielder Javier Iturriaga was born in Mexico of ex-
patriot Basque parents.


Former French international defender Bixente Lizarazu, who hails
from the town of San Juan de Luz from across the border in the
Basque region of France, was also in their ranks not so long ago.


Nevertheless, the club has always promoted itself as
representatives of Basque nationalism, and a 'de facto' Basque
national side in the absence of an officially recognised team.


The club has also traditionally had close linked with the Basque
nationalist political party PNV.


Jose Antonio Aguirre, a prominent Athletic player in the 1920s,
was elected as the president of the Basque region in 1936 during
the civil war, when complete independence was still a
possibility.


Even today, Basque flags and even banners of support for the
banned terrorist organisation ETA can be seen on match days.


The question is: will the club be forced to change its Basque-
only policy if the club is relegated?


Urquijo has not dared openly address that issue.


Nevertheless, the loss in TV revenues may lead to the club
capitulating on the thorny issue of shirt sponsorship.


Athletic remain the only Spanish first division club never to
have had an either a commercial sponsor or a charitable
organisation emblazoned on its jersey.


An end of an era, to one degree or another, is definitely
beckoning if Athletic Bilbao cannot climb out of the relegation
zone before June.

