

The historic deal agreed between Northern Ireland's rival
Protestant and Catholic leaders was lauded in the British press
on Tuesday, offering welcome positive comments for Prime Minister
Tony Blair.


Ian Paisley, firebrand leader of Protestant conservatives the
Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), and Gerry Adams, president of
Catholic socialists Sinn Fein, struck the deal hours before a
midnight deadline set by Britain to agree or see rule continue
from London indefinitely.


Though both parties agreed to share power in the troubled British
province, the resumption of self-rule was delayed by six weeks
until May 8.


That did not temper the euphoria in the papers, however, where
the mere sight of Paisley and Adams in the same room was cause
for celebration.


"Ten years ago, if anyone had suggested that the Rev Ian Paisley
and Gerry Adams would today be sitting down together to discuss
the future of Northern Ireland, they would have been considered
stark staring mad," the Daily Mail's editorial read.


"How times have changed!"


The paper, no fan of Blair or his Labour party, even heaped
praise on the prime minister, who is fighting off scandals and
struggling in the opinion polls: "If Tony Blair has one legacy of
which he can be proud, this surely will be it."


"There is still a long way to go but yesterday they really did
make history."


It's views were shared by the left-wing Daily Mirror tabloid
which similarly said in its editorial: "It's a striking, hopeful
image and a powerful testimony to the diligent efforts of the
prime minister, who has striven to find compromise in Ulster
since he came to power.


"He deserves much credit, as do Messrs Paisley and Adams for
finally showing the vision that eluded them in the past."


Meanwhile, The Sun, Britain's best-read daily, gave Paisley most
of the credit for Monday's historic meeting, writing in its "The
Sun Says" editorial: "The Rev Ian Paisley has spent his life
being denounced a bellowing bigot."


"Now this preacher of hellfire and damnation emerges as the
architect of peace in Northern Ireland.


"Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams deserves credit ... So do Tony Blair and
(former prime minister) Tory John Major ...


"But it is the iron-willed DUP leader who finally forced
Republican hardmen to lay down their guns."


The Independent, a left-of-centre daily, was impressed by how
open Paisley and Adams were, letting television cameras in to the
latter part of their meeting, thereby being filmed sitting inches
apart.


"They were polite and constructive; they listened to each other."


"The fact that there was no handshake did nothing to spoil the
occasion, since the sight of the two men together, flanked by
their respective teams, had enormous political and psychological
impact.


"The Paisley-Adams entente at a stroke established a new tone in
Belfast politics," its editorial read.


Of the national British press, only The Guardian and The Daily
Telegraph offered less than a full welcome to Monday's news, with
the right-wing Telegraph noting that "we should not get carried
away."


"Northern Ireland has a habit of throwing up too many historic
moments that have proved illusory. The depressing truth is that
Northern Ireland has been repeatedly let down by its political
establishment.


"Men who have practised their politics in the service of
negativity and the denial of democracy must now learn to grapple
with the hard choices of governing."


The left-of-centre Guardian similarly said in its editorial: "It
would be naive to think that yesterday marked the end of
brinkmanship."


"There will still be spats and standoffs aplenty to try the
patience. It was a day to remember, but still a day for two
hearty cheers rather than the full- throated three."

