

The use of medication-bearing stents in obstructed arteries, a
key current heart disease treatment, does not reduce mortality in
stable patients, a study released Monday found.


The results, released at a gathering of the American College of
Cardiology (ACC), looked at the use of stents to reduce mortality
compared to use of drugs alone, and could encourage a major shift
in the way physicians treat heart disease patients.


The finding could rock a six-billion-dollar a year industry, 3.2
billion dollars of which is done in the United States.


US-based Johnson and Johnson and Boston Scientific are the top
manufacturers of the devices.


"As an initial management strategy in patients with stable
coronary artery disease, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)
did not reduce the risk of death, myocardial infarction, or other
major cardio-vascular events when added to optimal medical
therapy," write the authors of the study due to appear in the
March 29 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine.


The mortality rate was around eight percent in both groups at the
end of the study. Related risks such as death, heart attack and
other cardiovascular incidents, were 20 percent and 19.5 percent,
respectively, a statistically negligible difference.


Dubbed the Courage trial (Clinical Outcome Utilizing
Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation), its results
"should lead to changes in the treatment of patients with stable
coronary artery disease, with expected substantial health care
savings," wrote cardiologists Judith Hochman and Gabriel Steg in
an editorial in the same edition of the New England Journal of
Medicine.


"PCI has an established place in treating angina but is not
superior to intensive medical therapy to prevent myocardial
infarction and death...in patients such as those in the study,"
they added.


More than one million stent procedures were done in 2004 and 85
percent of them were stable patients, according to the study's
authors.


The study was done with 2,287 heart disease patients in Canada
and the United States between 1999 and 2004. Half received
medicated stents and half drug treatment alone.


More than 70 million Americans suffer from cardiovascular disease
the leading cause of death in the United States, with more than
900,000 deaths in 2005.


Worldwide cardiovascular disease caused 17.5 million deaths the
same year, 30 percent of the total, according to data from the
World Health Organization.

