

Eurozone finance ministers meeting Monday in Brussels voiced
optimism in their economic outlook despite the euro's strength,
volatile oil prices and risks of higher inflation.


"Growth is robust over the whole euro area," said Luxembourg
Finance Minister Jean-Claude Juncker as he arrived to chair a
regular meeting of his eurozone counterparts.


Austrian Finance Minister Wilhelm Molterer also sounded an upbeat
note, saying that "the perspectives for this year give us a very
optimistic view on the economic situation in Europe."


Although the eurozone economy is expected to slow slightly this
year in line with global trends, the European Commission expects
the combined economy of the 13-nation bloc to expand at a still
healthy 2.4 percent.


Despite his optimism, Juncker, who is also his country's prime
minister, acknowledged that "there are some risks" to the
outlook, citing in particular oil prices, geopolitical tensions
in such countries as Iran and the possible impact on inflation.


However, Juncker saw little risk that higher wages could fuel
inflationary pressures amid growing calls from unions in some
eurozone countries such as Germany for wage increases.


"If wages are developing in line with productivity gains they are
not posing any problem as far as inflation is concerned," he
said.


"My impression is that wage polices are still moderate in the
sense that they are moving in line with productivity over the
whole eurozone," Juncker added.


German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck shrugged off the recent
strength of the euro against the dollar, saying that the shared
European currency had risen even higher in the past.


"I'm not worried by the strength of the euro," Steinbrueck said
as he arrived for the meeting. "The euro was as high as 1.36
against the dollar some time ago, why should we worry about
1.33."


The euro rose to its highest level since March 2005 against the
dollar on Thursday, reaching 1.3410 dollars after the US Federal
Reserve appeared to open the door to a possible interest rate cut
later this year.


Since then, the euro, which reached an all-time record high
against the dollar of 1.3668 on December 30, 2004, has lost
ground against the US currency, and traded at 1.3332 dollars in
late European trading in London.


The strength of the euro against the dollar and the yen has been
a recurring concern for eurozone finance ministers because it
makes exports from their countries more expensive, and thus less
competitive, on international markets.


However, Juncker, who has spoken out about the yen's weakness in
the past, was coy about whether the Japanese currency should be
mentioned in the conclusions of the next meeting of finance
chiefs from the Group of Seven richest countries in Washington in
mid-April.


When asked if European finance ministers should press for the
question of the weak yen to be broached, Luxembourg Finance
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told journalists: "We have to
consider this carefully."


"We are sticking to what we have said in Essen," he added,
referring to the last meeting of G7 finance ministers in central
Germany in February, where they opted for a relatively soft line
on the Japanese yen despite European pressure.


Steinbrueck was also sanguine about the possible impact of
turbulence in the US housing market at the lower or "subprime"
level among people with poor credit scores and those who borrowed
beyond their means.


"I think that its being overestimated the effect of any spillover
effect from what happens in the mortgage market in the US," he
said.


Dutch Finance Minister Wouter Bos saw a possible risk however,
saying: "Nobody knows what is going to be happening with the
housing market in the United States."

