

US authorities charged David Stockman, a former budget director
to US president Ronald Reagan, with alleged criminal securities
fraud Monday related to a Michigan-based auto parts firm.


Government prosecutors claimed Stockman masterminded a complex
accounting scam that artificially boosted Collins & Aikman,
Inc.'s earnings between 2001 and 2005 as the firm faced a
financial decline.


Prosecutors said they were seeking hundreds of millions of
dollars in forfeiture from the former White House official, who
was once also a Republican congressman.


"Stockman orchestrated a scheme ... to defraud C&A's
investors, banks, and creditors by manipulating C&A's
reported revenues and earnings," according to charging documents
released by US Attorney Michael Garcia.


Stockman, who faces a stiff jail term if convicted, was also
charged with obstructing investigators as they probed the auto
firm's finances, but Stockman's lawyer said his client was
innocent.


"This is a misguided prosecution that threatens to destroy an
innocent man," Stockman's lawyer, Elkan Abramowitz, said in a
statement.


"From his early public service in Congress and the Reagan
administration, to his prominence in private equity at Blackstone
and Heartland Industrial Partners, Mr. Stockman has built his
career on candor and integrity," Abramowitz said.


The former director of the Reagan era Office of Management and
Budget became Collins & Aikman's chairman and chief executive
after forming a private investment fund, Heartland Industrial
Partners, in 1999 which took over the auto parts group.


Prosecutors claim Stockman then oversaw the manipulation of the
firm's books in a bid to falsely color its earnings reports to
Wall Street investors and federal regulators.


Stockman was hit with separate civil charges by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, America's top market watchdog.


"The conduct we allege here is especially egregious because
Stockman and the other defendants not only repeatedly engaged in
fraud, but went to great efforts to cover-up their misconduct,
and the company's financial difficulties, from investors,
analysts and others," said SEC enforcement chief Linda Thomsen.


Several other individuals were also charged by investigators
including Collins & Aikman's former top financial officer,
Michael Stepp.


Prosecutors said Stockman deceived major banks, including JP
Morgan Chase and Credit Suisse First Boston, as part of the
scheme. His privately-controlled firm, Heartland, also reaped
millions of dollars in annual advisory fees billed to the ailing
auto parts supplier.


Collins & Aikman owns plants across the Americas and Europe
and has had contracts with industry heavyweights including
General Motors and Ford. The firm is vying to re-emerge from
bankruptcy protection.

