

A plea of guilty to a terrorism charge by Australian Guantanao
Bay detainee David Hicks was welcomed by the government Tuesday.


"I'm pleased for everybody's sake that this saga has come to a
conclusion," Foreign Minister Alexander Downer told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp., complaining that the US legal
process had taken too long.


Hicks' plea of guilty to providing material support for terrorism
came at a US military tribunal after defence lawyers said he was
weighing a plea deal that could get him out of Guantanamo Bay.


The Muslim convert has spent more than five years at the US-run
prison in Cuba for "war on terror" detainees after being captured
in Afghanistan in 2001 during the US-led invasion.


A former kangaroo skinner, Hicks was accused of undergoing
training at an Al- Qaeda camp in Afghanistan and volunteering to
fight alongside the forces of the Taliban regime during the
invasion.


The Hicks case became a major political issue in Australia, with
polls showing the public growing increasingly angered by the fact
that he had been held without trial for so long.


The conservative government of Prime Minister John Howard, a
close ally of US President George W. Bush, faces an election
later this year and began pressing Washington to expedite the
case.


"First of all there was the view that Hicks clearly couldn't have
done anything wrong, and we hate the Americans and all of that,"
Downer said.


"There were people who thought David Hicks should just be strung
up, he was obviously a horror.


"And there were people in the middle, which is where I was,
really. My view was always that the legal process had just taken
far too long."


He noted that Hicks could be back in Australia soon under a
prisoner exchange deal with the US.


"We have an arrangement with the Americans whereby he can serve
any residue of his sentence in an Australian prison," Donwer
said.


The leader of the Greens Party, Bob Brown, said however that
Hicks' guilty plea was "simply a plea for release, for exit from
the inhumane Guantanamo gulag."

