

World oil prices Monday hit new highs for 2007 as the market
fretted over rising tensions between the West and major crude
producer Iran.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 63 cents to close at 62.91 dollars.
Earlier Monday it reached 63.30 dollars -- last seen on December
21.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
rallied 1.20 dollars to settle at 64.41 dollars a barrel in
electronic deals. It had earlier struck 64.50 dollars -- the
highest point since December 4.


The Iran situation is adding a "geopolitical risk premium to
crude prices, with many market participants concerned that the
(nuclear) situation could escalate, potentially leading to Iran
using oil as a bargaining tool," Sucden analyst Michael Davies
said in London.


The White House on Monday urged Iran to rethink a threat to limit
cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog agency and insisted
Tehran bow to international demands to freeze sensitive atomic
work.


"We would urge them not to go down that road," said spokeswoman
Dana Perino.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, said Sunday it
would restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog in
retaliation for fresh Security Council sanctions over its
disputed atomic program.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment program.


The decision followed word on Friday that Iran had seized 15
British sailors in the Gulf, a move that roiled the market.


"This is just the kind of scenario we've worried about with all
these military assets operating so close together, Iran being in
the midst of a new round of war games in the region," said John
Kilduff at Fimat USA.


"Market participants are mindful of the 20 percent of the world's
supply which passes through the Strait of Hormuz, which is well
within Iran's technical prowess to close.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he would attempt to
contact Iranian leaders Monday to discuss the fate of the British
sailors being held by Iran.


An Iranian official said the navy personnel were being
interrogated and would have to answer to allegations they
violated Iranian waters.


"The case of the Britons who violated Iranian territorial waters
is following the due legal process and they must answer for their
violation," deputy foreign minister Mehdi Mostafavi said, state
television reported.

