

Australian Tony Smith was on Monday named as the new Great
Britain rugby league team coach after signing a two-and-a-half
year deal.


The 40-year-old Leeds coach takes over from Brian Noble on a
part-time basis until his Leeds contract runs out at the end of
the season.


His first match in charge will be against France in June, and his
first big challenge will come in the autumn when Britain take on
New Zealand in a three- match Test Series on home soil before
taking charge of England for the 2008 World Cup in Australia.


Smith's final act of his contract will be to wrest the Tri-
Nations crown from Australia in 2009, and he believes he has
enough time to turn around the country's fortunes.


"It's a great honour to take on this role and one that I am
relishing," Smith told a news conference in Huddersfield.


"This country has some of the best young players in the world and
my job over the next two and a half years will be to develop this
crop of players into the best team in the world.


"I have thoroughly enjoyed my four seasons at Leeds and am proud
of what I have achieved there.


"Fans of the club can rest assured that I will continue to give
my all for the club until the end of the season, whilst at the
same time starting with the Great Britain set-up."


Rugby Football League executive chairman Richard Lewis said they
were counting on Smith to bring Britain back to the pinnacle of
the world sport.


It is 37 years since Britain last won the Ashes from Australia
and they have slipped to third behind New Zealand in the rankings
over the last two years by failing to reach the final of the Tri-
Nations Series.


"I want Tony to challenge us all to move ourselves from number
three in the rankings to the top of the world," said Lewis.


"I want Great Britain and, after this year, England to be the
best in the world.


"I believe Tony is absolutely the right man for the job. He has a
proven track record of success and has shown an ability to bring
through young talent and, very importantly, he sets high
standards."

