

UEFA president Michel Platini stepped up his "zero tolerance"
campaign against violence in European football Monday after
gaining unwavering support from his executive committee.


Violence had continued despite a letter Platini sent to the last
16 clubs in the Champions League a fortnight ago, and there were
incidents at the Euro 2008 qualifiers over the weekend, UEFA
spokesman William Gaillard said.


"He's now going to write to the heads of the 53 federations to
remind them of their duties, and the executive committee supports
him on the watchword: zero tolerance for violence and those who
are violent," Gaillard said.


UEFA are currently examining appeals against sanctions imposed
after a mass brawl between Valencia and Inter Milan players in a
Champions League tie on March 6. A ruling is expected shortly
after the hearing on Wednesday.


Both clubs were fined 155,772 euros (207,223 dollars) and the
players involved were suspended for periods ranging from two
matches to seven months.


"UEFA, the associations and the clubs can do quite a lot when it
comes to violence on the pitch and in stadiums," Gaillard
explained.


"However, we can do less away from the stadiums -- there we need
the help of the various public order authorities."


Platini and UEFA chiefs met government and police officials from
several countries last week, to discuss ways to tackle violence
in and around stadiums.


More meetings are due with police officials and corruption
specialists.


Gaillard drew a parallel between the killing of Colombian
football player Andres Escobar after the 1994 World Cup and the
death of Pakistan's cricket coach Bob Woolmer, who was found
strangled during cricket's World Cup last week.


"We unfortunately have violence that is generated by things
outside sport -- it can be political extremism, but also
corruption or illegal betting," UEFA's spokesman added.


World governing body FIFA's president Sepp Blatter warned Friday
that violence on and off the pitch had driven football to a
crossroads.


Blatter also raised the possibility of punishing coaches for the
actions of their players.

