

Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton on Monday snapped up a
prime political endorsement in Iowa, which holds the critical
first state votes on chosing 2008 presidential nominees.


Clinton bolstered her already formidable political machine by
enlisting former Iowa governor Tom Vilsack, as she raced towards
a key March 31 fundraising deadline seen as a pivotal early test
of the packed race.


Vilsack, and wife Christine, also a popular Iowa campaigner, will
help Clinton reach into every corner of the midwestern state,
which expects candidates to pursue an intense, often one-on-one,
engagement with voters.


"Hillary Clinton has been tried and tested like no other
candidate for president," said Vilsack, who briefly mounted his
own 2008 bid, appearing beside the former first lady in the
midwestern state's capital, Des Moines.


Clinton said she was "absolutely thrilled and honored" with the
endorsement, which may come as a blow to Senator Barack Obama,
Clinton's closest nationwide Democratic rival who has little
history in the state.


In Iowa, Clinton's closest challenger is former Democratic vice
presidential nominee John Edwards, who last week announced his
campaign would go on, despite the return of his wife Elizabeth's
cancer.


Edwards has blitzed the state for the past two years, and his
populist campaign targeting those disposessed by the flight of
blue collar jobs abroad, has also drawn strong support in the
state.


In the latest American Research Group polling in Iowa, Clinton
had edged one percentage point ahead of Edwards, winning the
support of 34 percent of likely Democratic caucus goers.


Obama, expected to return to Iowa this weekend, had only 16
percent.


The Vilsack endorsement will likely provoke speculation Vilsack
is angling to be Clinton's running mate if she wins the
nomination, or is hoping for a possible cabinet job if she wins
in November 2008.


Clinton did not comment on such speculation, but said at a
townhall meeting carried by ABC television that she hoped the
Vilsacks would remain active in public life.


The uniquely colorful Iowa caucuses see Republican and Democratic
voters gather across the state in schools, diners and even living
rooms, to make and listen to speeches on behalf of candidates,
before choosing their favorite.


Observers of the presidential race were meanwhile eyeing a March
31 deadline for candidates to file their first quarter
fundraising reports.


That date is seen as a critical early barometer of the White
House race, and candidates ability to raise the tens of millions
of dollars needed to be competitive in what is already shaping up
as the most US election in history.


Soon after appearing with Clinton, Vilsack sent out a fundraising
appeal for the New York senator, who has also benefited from
events featuring her husband, former president Bill Clinton.


Nationally, a new poll by Zogby International published Monday
found Clinton on 32 percent of likely primary voters, 10 points
ahead of Obama. Edwards was third on 13 percent.


On the Republican side, former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani
led with 27 percent, ahead of Senator John McCain on 13 percent.
Former senator Fred Thompson, who stars in the New York legal
drama "Law & Order" came next, tied with former Massachusetts
governor Mitt Romney on nine percent, after saying he is
considering a run.

