

South Africa and Sri Lanka will be entering new territory when
they meet in a World Cup Super Eight match at the Guyana National
Stadium Wednesday.


The match is the first of any consequence to be played at a new
stadium, outside the capital Georgetown, where workers are still
battling to get everything ready for Wednesday.


Rain prevented both teams from practising Monday and the pitch
remained under cover, so the players could not make any
assessment of it.


South African coach Mickey Arthur said he hoped the pitch would
have more pace and bounce than Guyana's old international ground,
the Bourda in Georgetown, which was notoriously low and slow.


"We have been told by (International Cricket Council pitch
consultant) Andy Atkinson that it should have reasonable bounce,"
said Arthur.


More rain was predicted for Tuesday but it is expected to clear
Wednesday, although there may be scattered thundershowers.


It is a crucial match for South Africa, who were beaten by
Australia in their group decider in St Kitts on Saturday, whereas
1996 World Cup champions Sri Lanka carried two points through to
the Super Eight phase after defeating fellow qualifiers
Bangladesh.


The previous World Cup meeting between the two sides was
dramatic.


When rain ended play in Durban in 2003 the scores were tied on
the Duckworth- Lewis method.


South Africa needed to win and for the second time in successive
World Cups were eliminated after a tied match. It was an
ignominious ending for the Proteas who failed to reach the second
round in their own country.


South African captain Graeme Smith said his team would not be
haunted by the memories of 2003.


"We haven't discussed it but we haven't forgotten about it
either. It has not been a major issue in the team since I have
taken over the captaincy."


The pitch could play a crucial role.


If it has pace and bounce, South Africa will be confident that
they can overpower their opponents with their seam-based attack.


But if it helps the slow bowlers in any way it will be Sri Lanka
who will fancy their chances.


Although South Africa have dominated home matches against Sri
Lanka, they have won only one out of 11 matches in Sri Lanka,
with their batsmen often getting tied down by the spinners.


Both teams have won eight times in 16 matches on neutral
territory, the most recent when South Africa gained a convincing
78-run in an ICC Champions Trophy match in Ahmedabad, India, last
October.


The overall record shows both teams have won 21 times against
each other, which gives Sri Lanka a better record against South
Africa than any team other than Australia.


South Africa, who need to win to maintain their ranking as the
world's top one- day international team and claim a 175,000-US
dollar bonus for leading the rankings on April 1, batted well in
their group matches in St Kitts.


Openers Smith and AB de Villiers and top order batsmen Jacques
Kallis and Herschelle Gibbs showed good form.


But their bowlers were hammered by Australia, with key player
Shaun Pollock conceding 83 runs in ten overs as Australia piled
up 377 for six.


Pollock is likely to be put under pressure again by Sri Lanka's
aggressive veteran Sanath Jayasuriya, who made a rapid century
against Bangladesh.


Sri Lanka's batting has been solid all down the order, with
Chamara Silva hitting quick-scoring half-centuries in each of his
team's first three matches.


Their bowlers have yet to be mastered and were impressive in the
win over India which consigned the Indians to an early flight
home. Champion off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan took three for
41.

