

Chinese President Hu Jintao holds talks with officials and
travels to an oil- rich Russian region on Tuesday as he continues
a three-day trip that is part of a global drive to secure new
energy sources for China.


After arriving in Moscow on Monday Hu held crucial talks with his
Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin where they said in a joint
declaration that energy cooperation "will give a tangible impulse
to economic growth and will strengthen the energy security of
Russia and China."


The declaration said that the two countries would further develop
oil, gas and electricity ties and "large bilateral co-operation
projects in the energy sphere."


Russian and Chinese officials also signed an agreement on
boosting shipments of Russian oil to China by rail. Eleven out of
the 15 million tonnes of oil exports to China from Russia last
year were transported by rail.


Agreements were also signed between Russian and Chinese banks and
between the space agencies of the two countries. Russian media
earlier reported that deals worth four billion dollars would be
signed during Hu's visit.


The leadership of energy-hungry China is keen to obtain
guarantees of increased oil and gas deliveries from Russia, the
biggest energy producer in the world, analysts said.


Hu will leave Moscow on Tuesday evening to visit Tatarstan, a
mainly Muslim province in central Russia that has extensive oil
reserves, where he will meet on Wednesday with the region's
leader Mintimir Shaimiyev.


During the day Tuesday the Chinese president will once again meet
Russian President Vladimir Putin as they attend a Moscow trade
fair where nearly 200 Chinese companies are showcasing their
products, China's biggest ever participation in a foreign trade
show.


Hu will also meet with Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov in
the morning and with Boris Gryzlov, speaker of the lower house of
parliament, the State Duma, in the afternoon.


His trip to Russia follows a 12-day tour to eight African nations
last month that focused on boosting Chinese investment in natural
resources and securing oil imports from war-torn Sudan.


The visit is also expected to touch on Chinese worries about
delays in the construction of a planned oil pipeline from the
fields of Siberia to the Chinese oil hub of Daqing, the
Kommersant daily reported on Monday.


Hu and Putin talked up strong diplomatic ties between their
countries, which have taken closely aligned positions in talks
meant to end North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and stem
Iran's nuclear ambitions.


"Russia and China emphasise that the problem of Iran's nuclear
programme should be resolved exclusively in a peaceful way,
through negotiations," the joint declaration said.


"Russia and China will make every effort to ensure the rapid
start of negotiations and to find a long-term, all-encompassing
and mutually acceptable resolution to the Iranian nuclear
problem," the declaration continued.


The two leaders also welcomed the "positive dynamic" in six-party
talks in Beijing aimed at curbing North Korea's nuclear programme
and called for a "full and all-encompassing solution" to the
controversy.


Hu said ahead of the trip, his third to Russia since becoming
president, that the visit would further cement economic and
diplomatic relations that have grown significantly since the
collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.


But Russian newspapers said that behind the high-flown rhetoric,
Hu's trip would be about hard-nosed business bargaining.


Among the possible sources of discord were Russian concerns about
China's space ambitions and Chinese worries about the quality of
Russian arms imports, Kommersant said.


Both sides said bilateral trade jumped over the past year, though
their statistics differed: China said trade grew 15 percent in
2006, while Russia said trade grew 43 percent over the same
period.

