

As her insulin stocks at home dwindled and she made desperate
calls to the local pharmacy, Natalya, a diabetic, became the
latest victim of a serious medicine shortage hitting Russia.


"The pharmacy put me in a queue of some 700 and warned it would
take two weeks for the medicine to come -- that was already too
much," said the 37-year-old from Yekaterinburg in the Ural
mountains.


Natalya, who asked for her last name not to be used, is one of
numerous Russians vulnerable to the country's unwieldy and
corruption-prone system of distributing free medicine. And that
system has recently reached breaking-point.


Sufferers of serious illnesses from cancer to epilepsy have found
themselves unable to get the drugs they need, forcing the
government to own up to an unpaid debt to medicine suppliers of
1.4 billion dollars (1.1 billion euros).


Despite windfall Russia has enjoyed from high global oil prices,
last month the newspaper Novaya Gazeta reported a "catastrophic
lack of medicine" in towns and cities the length and breadth of
the country, including Pskov in the west, Rostov-on-Don in the
south and Krasnoyarsk in Siberia.


The problem could become a significant election issue as Russia
holds parliamentary polls in December, ahead of a presidential
poll next March at which President Vladimir Putin is due to stand
down.


In the past issues of social benefits, including entitlements to
free medicine, have proved a hot-button issue, with a raft of
reforms prompting major protests in early 2005.


"Whoever manages to solve this situation is guaranteed the love
of both the authorities and the voters," the Izvestia daily
commented.


For diabetes sufferers the problem is that they are only allowed
one month's stock of insulin at a time.


Natalya's December order was supplied only in February, an
unprecedented delay in the 10 years she has been insulin-
dependent.


Fortunately she managed to raise the funds to buy insulin
privately, something many others cannot manage.


Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, who has been put in charge
of social policy and is seen as a presidential contender,
admitted there were "significant" problems, despite months of
grappling with the situation.


Since late 2006, the government has launched an inquiry into the
"supplementary medical supply" system that provides free medicine
for some 8.7 million Russians.


Officials have slashed by a third the list of medicines that can
be obtained free and have arrested several top officials for
taking bribes from pharmaceutical companies.


But experts lay the blame on a 2005 welfare reform programme that
prompted protests.


Under these changes, many pensioners were induced to give up in-
kind benefits in exchange for financial compensation and this
created shortfalls in funds for medicine.


"People left the programme and so financing of medicine came down
from 51 billion rubles (nearly two billion dollars) in 2005 to 29
billion in 2006, while expenditure rose as the most needy
remained," the state newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta said.


As a result of the current debts, medicine imports in January
were worth 38 percent less than in January last year, the paper
said.


Natalya doubts the authorities will get to grips with the problem
of medical supplies any time soon.


"A situation where you have 10 days of life in a bottle, falling
to eight, then five and there's still no call from the pharmacy
and maybe none will come, I wouldn't wish it on anyone," she told
AFP.

