

In Pakistan, where burqas are more widespread than lycra, nearly
50 foreign cyclists including four former world champions and
several women have taken part in a trailblazing road race.


The PSO Tour of Islamabad which ended Sunday is one of the first
events of its kind in this conservative South Asian nation and
was held to raise money for child victims of the devastating 2005
Pakistan earthquake.


Participants said it had given them a new view of a country which
is trying to overcome bad press because of terrorist violence
after the September 11, 2001 attacks, political instability and
concerns about women's rights.


"People are super-nice, everyone wants to say hi," said Anne-
Marie LeFrancois, from Vancouver, Canada, a former world-class
skiier who competed in the the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake
City and has held the Canadian Super G and Downill skiing
championship titles.


Conservative dress is normally a must in Pakistan and women are
not encouraged to play sports.


Female cricketers are strictly forbidden from wearing shorts and
T-shirts, while the hardline government in North West Frontier
Province, which borders Afghanistan, banned male coaches from
training females in 2003.


Riots erupted in the eastern city of Gujranwala in April 2005,
after police stopped armed Islamic activists from disrupting a
mini-marathon involving female competitors.


However, LeFrancois said she and the other competitors had
encountered no difficulties with local people despite wearing
fluorescent lycra cycling gear during the tour, a three-stage
race spread over three days.


"We got stared at a bit but that is par for the course," said
LeFrancois.


"It's just curiosity, people asking 'how on earth did they get
here?' They are really respectful."


Other top cyclists in the tour, which features ten international
teams and three Pakistani teams, included Germany's Faris Al-
Sultan, the World Champion Ironman Triathlon in 2005 and Tim
Vincent of New Zealand, the world 24-hour mountain bike champion
in 2006.


Ahad Kazmemisarai of Iran and Brita Martin of Germany were the
overall winners of the Islamabad tour.


Josh Mallan, from Chicago, who was first in the Four-man Time
Trial at the Masters World Championships in 2006, said: "You see
a lot of stuff about Pakistan on the TV news but the people here
have been incredibly welcoming."


The organisers of the race, the Kaghan Memorial Trust, and its
backers Pakistan State Oil (PSO) and Pakistan's Ministry of
Tourism, said it was a good way both to promote cycling in
Pakistan and to promote Pakistan abroad.


The trust raises funds to build schools for children in
Pakistan's northern Kaghan Valley. Balakot, the gateway town to
the valley, was almost totally destroyed by the quake.

