

West Indies captain Brian Lara has admitted his side still have
plenty of work to do if they are to match the standard set by
reigning world champions Australia at this World Cup.


But the master batsman believes that, with several weeks to go to
the final, time could work in favour of his youthful side.


Hosts West Indies were due to face the title-holders in the first
match of the second round Super Eights here Tuesday with the
Australian batting line-up in prime form after rattling up 377 in
an 83-run win against world number ones South Africa on Saturday.


That set the seal on a played three, won three record in the
group phase.


But the West Indies, bidding to become the first host nation to
win the World Cup, enjoyed a similar record of success early on
in the tournament with convincing defeats of Pakistan, Zimbabwe
and Ireland.


"I think we still have a lot of work to do to match the skills of
the Australia team," Lara told reporters at the recently-built
Sir Vivian Richards Cricket Ground.


"We are trying to create a lot of match-winners, not just one or
two, in our team," said the gifted left-hander, who has been
batting at five in a bid to give his top-order colleagues more
responsibility for run-scoring.


"We are dangerous - but they are more dangerous."


However, looking ahead, Lara said: "I am quietly confident that
we can perform pretty well in this World Cup.


"The tournament still has a month left, and it is important to
take each game at a time - don't get over-confident."


West Indies beat Australia in the Champions Trophy group stage in
India in 2006.


However, Ricky Ponting's men hit back in the final with an eight-
wicket win where Lara fell to the great Australian wicket-taking
double act - caught Adam Gilchrist, bowled Glenn McGrath.


But the 37-year-old Lara has had his fair share of success
against Australia down the years and he insisted he had no
problems with being 'targeted' by the likes of McGrath.


"That is the thing that actually drives me - that the opposition
is going to come after the so-called key player."


Not that Lara, the all-time leading run scorer in Test cricket,
was under- estimating the challenge of facing an Australia side
bidding to become the first team in history to complete a hat-
trick of World Cup triumphs after capturing the title in 1999 and
2003.


"They are playing at their best, and I can tell from the way they
are playing that they are here to make it a hat-trick of wins.
They are very confident in their ability."


Ponting, however, stressed Australia were expecting a tough test
from the West Indies.


"I think they are a very good one-day side," said the Australia
captain. "It will take a performance similar to the one we had
against South Africa the other day to beat them."


One chink of light for Australia's opponents is that they have
proved vulnerable when defending seemingly impregnable totals.


The four highest winning scores batting second in the history of
one-day international cricket have all been made since the
2005/06 season and all against Australia, with South Africa
leading the way with a world record 438 for nine in Johannesburg.


And most recently New Zealand scored 350 for nine and 340 for
five against Australia during the Black Caps' clean sweep of last
month's Chappell-Hadlee series.


Australia's bowlers were under attack again at the weekend before
Shane Watson ran out AB de Villiers.


But Ponting insisted he was happy with an attack missing injured
fast bowler Brett Lee.


"The bowling was under a bit of pressure early on but that was to
expected. Brad Hogg did a good job and so did Shaun Tait coming
back and Nathan Bracken's last few overs were pretty crucial."

