

Hundreds of earthquake survivors in Japan spent another night in
shelters on Tuesday, leading to concern for their mental and
physical health, as strong aftershocks hampered recovery work.


The Wajima area on the west coast of Japan's main island of
Honshu has been hit by nearly 250 aftershocks since Sunday's
initial 6.9-magnitude earthquake, which killed one person and
injured more than 200 others.


Nearly 2,000 residents spent their second night in emergency
shelters after the quake destroyed wooden houses, triggered
landslides and paralysed traffic, with water supply still out of
service in a large part of the city.


"I'm stressed out," said Yoshikiyo Kakuumi, a 82-year-old retired
fisherman, who was among 70 people rescued at sea by a patrol
boat after the quake damaged coastal roads.


"I took sleeping pills last night as I was too nervous and too
worried to sleep," he said with a brief sigh.


"I'm worried about my high blood pressure," Kakuumi said in a
chilly gymnasium at Monzen West Elementary School offering
shelter to some 300 local residents.


Volunteers and unaffected residents were serving rice balls and
miso soup to survivors, most of whom had nothing to do but read
newspapers, lie on their mattresses or chat with their neighbours
hour after hour.


"I'm exhausted mentally. It's so hard not to see any prospects
for what's going to happen now," said Kano Takeda, 82, who
survived as she was outside before the quake seriously damaged
her house.


"I want to go home and enjoy lovely days like we did before, but
I don't know how long it will take us to get back to normal. It
could be months or a year, I don't know."


The region's health care centre warned that prevention measures
against influenza or any other types of epidemics will be
"critical" as most of the survivors here are elderly people.


"The longer survivors are forced to stay in shelters, the more
trouble they are going to face," said Michiyo Kawajiri, an
official of the centre. "At the same time, we have to take their
mental care into consideration."


As strong aftershocks, including a 3.9-magnitude jolt early
Tuesday, swayed half-collapsed houses, residents and construction
workers were forced to suspend recovery work intermittently.


"We can't concentrate on cleaning up the mess in my house as I
have to get out of there whenever a strong aftershock occurs,
which is really annoying," said Takanori Enoki, a former
principal of a local elementary school.


More than 600 buildings were damaged, 57 of them completely
destroyed, the disaster agency said, warning that the damaged
buildings -- many of them older wooden homes with heavy roof
tiles -- may collapse due to aftershocks.


Japan lies at the junction of four tectonic plates and endures
about 20 percent of the world's most powerful earthquakes. A
7.3-magnitude earthquake in the western city of Kobe in January
1995 killed 6,437 people.

