

Prime Minister Romano Prodi faces on Tuesday a key Senate vote on
keeping Italy's 2,000 troops in Afghanistan, a month after he
resigned after lawmakers rejected his foreign policy.


Even though the financing of the deployment appears assured of a
majority, Prodi could face renewed calls to step down if the
measure is carried only with the support of opposition lawmakers.


On the eve of the vote Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema said
failure to approve funding for the country's troops in
Afghanistan would be "shameful."


"I don't even want to think about it ... I hope that in the end,
after all the polemic, reason will prevail for a majority of
senators," he told the Ansa news agency.


Prodi's government has only a two-vote majority in the Senate and
the subject of funding for Italy's foreign military operations,
particularly in Afghanistan, is a source of contention within his
centre-left coalition.


The rejection of Prodi's foreign policy last month after a
rebellion by left- wing senators, who oppose the expansion of a
US military base in northern Italy as well as the Afghanistan
mission, prompted the prime minister to step down, although he
was subsequently reappointed and confirmed by parliament.


The debate has been fuelled further by the controversy over the
deal for the release last week of an Italian journalist who had
been kidnapped in Afghanistan.


Five Taliban prisoners held in Afghan government jails were
swapped for La Repubblica correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo,
who had been held for two weeks and witnessed the beheading of
his Afghan driver before being freed March 19.


NATO allies the United States, Britain and the Netherlands
criticised the deal. Right-wing Italian politicians, as well as
the government's defence minister, also criticised the swap.


Tuesday's vote involves financing for all of Italy's military
missions abroad, including Afghanistan, Lebanon and Bosnia.


The opposition Christian Democrats have pledged to support the
military deployments, ensuring the measure will be approved, but
not the survival of Prodi's government.


If far-left coalition senators rebel again and the vote goes in
Prodi's favour only because of support from the opposition,
right-wing politicians are likely to renew their calls for the
government to resign.


"Prodi would have a moral and institutional obligation to
resign," Pier Ferdinando Casini, head of the Christian Democrat
UDC party, has said.


The debate may also highlight deep divisions on the government's
foreign policy within Prodi's coalition, which the recent
kidnapping deal has exacerbated.


Italy must "now fix precise limits to avoid being submitted to
unacceptable blackmail that risks compromising (Italy's)
international credibility," infrastructure minister Antonio Di
Pietro has said.

