

Myanmar put on a show of might and defiance at its annual
military parade Tuesday, with junta chief Than Shwe displaying
few signs of his reported ill health in his new capital city.


Some 15,000 troops took to the echoing parade ground of the
military-ruled nation's new capital Naypyidaw for Armed Forces
Day, marching in the shadow of statues of old Burmese kings and
flags bearing army crests.


Senior General Than Shwe, who stood in the morning sun without
faltering for about one hour, delivered a speech rebuking
countries such as the United States which have taken the junta to
task over human rights and democratic reform.


"Judging from lessons of the history, it is certain that powerful
countries wishing to impose their influence on our nation will
make any attempt in various ways to undermine national unity," he
said.


He also vowed to "crush, hand-in-hand with the entire people,
every danger of internal and external destructive elements
obstructing the stability and development of the state."


After his 10-minute speech Than Shwe inspected the troops,
standing upright out of the sun roof of his stretch Mercedes.


The parade began as the sun rose over Naypyidaw, a city the
military carved out of the jungles of central Myanmar and which
now stretches over a vast area dotted with ministries, military
buildings and apartment blocks.


The public is barred from attending the event, but the annual
ceremony is one of the few times of the year when Than Shwe
allows his image to appear in official media, giving Myanmar's
people a rare glimpse of the man who tightly controls almost
every aspect of their lives.


They will look at him especially closely this year, amid
widespread rumours that the 73-year-old's health may be failing.


He spent two weeks in Singapore for medical checks in January,
and upon his return staged an unusual series of appearances in
state media to dissuade any concerns about his health.


In a country where ageing generals rule with absolute power, the
health scare highlighted fears of a power struggle within the
military that could erupt if he or other top generals were to
suddenly pass.


Myanmar's Prime Minister Soe Win, thought to be about 58, is
currently hopistalised in Singapore. The government insists he is
healthy, but that has failed to stop widespread speculation about
who would succeed him.


But Soe Win's job is largely ceremonial. More worrying is the
jockeying within the military to establish a clear successor to
Than Shwe, who has ruled Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, since
1962.


Thailand-based analysts had speculated that this year would see
the most extravagant Armed Forces Day because it may be the
general's last.


"Many people in Rangoon are speculating that this could be the
last Armed Forces Day (for Than Shwe) because of his health
condition," Myanmar military analyst Win Min said, referring to
Yangon by its previous name.


"I'm not sure if it will be the last time for him, it depends on
his health," Thailand-based Win Min added.


If Than Shwe was in any discomfort, he gave no sign to the
gathered ministers, generals, foreign defence attaches and
international and local media.


During his speech his voice was contestant and hardly wavered.
After inspecting the troops, he gently exited the Mercedes before
ascending the podium, where he stood still for about an hour,
periodically saluting as the 15,000 troops marched by, garlands
of jasmine around their necks.


"It was quite a show," US Defence Attache Colonel Daniel Tarter
told AFP after the general had left the grounds.


He shrugged Than Shwe's criticism of western countries, which the
general repeats every year, saying: "It was a fairly typical
Armed Forces Day speech."

