

After decades of seeing cheap Australian wines erode their global
market dominance, French winemakers are hitting back by exporting
budget tipple Down Under.


The French are targeting the budget end of the market, a segment
the Australians have made their own in recent years, as they
challenge their rivals head-on in their own backyard.


Campbell Stott, imported wine business manager at liquor retailer
Dan Murphy's, said sales of French wines in Australia had soared
65 percent in the past year as winemakers from Bordeaux moved
into the market.


"That's really strong bottom line growth and the trend is
continuing," Stott told AFP.


"Australian wine consumers are well educated and they're clearly
keen to try something different."


Australians quaffed more than 30 million litres of imported wine
in 2006 and Stott predicted the figure would double this year.


He said top quality Bordeaux wines had been imported into
Australia for decades but were priced beyond the reach of the
average consumer.


The introduction of French wines costing less than 10 dollars
(7.80 US) had tapped a new market, helping the Bordeaux
winemakers offload a huge wine surplus.


Stott said the French had cast aside their emphasis on tradition
and adopted tactics pioneered by the Australians for the push
Down Under.


"They've come in with fruit-driven wines in screw-top bottles,
which would have been unthinkable only a few years ago," he said.


"There's also an emphasis on packaging and labelling. A few years
ago the French would simply assume people would buy their wine
because it was good, now they've realised their have to tell
global wine consumers what they're getting."


The president of Bordeaux wine producer Borie-Manoux, Philippe
Casteja, visited Australia this month to add momentum to the
sales push.


"The region has made great efforts to not only improve quality
but also produce good wines that are affordable," Casteja told
Sydney's Sun-Herald newspaper.


"We realised we needed to be more competitive internationally and
we learnt a lot from the way the Australians marketed their wines
internationally."


With imported wines accounting for less than five percent of the
wines consumed in Australia, Stott said domestic producers would
not be too apprehensive about the French challenge.


"But the French aren't looking to come in and take over, they're
simply offering something new to the Australian wine market," he
said.


"Australian drinkers used to be very parochial about their wines
but now they've got the chance to see what French wine is all
about."


He said the Bordeaux wines were less alcoholic than their
Australian counterparts and offered an alternative to the big,
dominant taste associated with varieties from Down Under.


Stott said they could lead to a change in Australian tastes, just
as Australia's innovations forced Bordeaux to produce affordable,
clearly-labelled wines in screw tops that could be drunk young.


"Who knows? Wine tastes are very cyclical, people like to have a
look around and it's good to have these French wines here as a
benchmark to show us what else is available out there," he said.


Winemakers' Federation of Australia spokesman Simon Birmingham
said his members had not noticed a significant influx of French
wine.


"We're not going to be losing too much sleep over it," said
Birmingham. "We haven't seen a marked increase in wine imports
from overseas.


"What little there has been shows a maturing of the Australian
consumers' palate, a desire to try something a little different.
We would be concerned if there was a sudden surge in discounted
imported wines."


Birmingham said margins across the industry were slashed by a
huge wine glut in recent years but appeared poised to recover as
Australia's drought led to the lowest winegrape harvest in seven
years.


"A flood of cheap imported wine could hurt that process but we've
seen no evidence of that yet," he said.

