

Federalists won a close election in French-speaking Quebec
Monday, dashing separatists' hopes of holding a referendum on
breaking from Canada, said public broadcaster Radio-Canada.


According to projections, the federalist Liberals won 45 seats in
Quebec's 125-seat National Assembly, followed by the greenhorn
Action Democratique du Quebec (ADQ) with 42 seats and the
separatist Parti Quebecois with 38.


At the start of the campaign in late February, analysts believed
Liberal Premier Jean Charest would win a second term and stave
off a plebiscite on Quebec independence for five years, the
prescribed term.


But the separatist Parti Quebecois, which vowed to hold a
referendum if it won the election, made great strides in the
final stretch.


And an unexpected surge in support for the conservative ADQ,
which favors greater autonomy for Quebec but not independence,
turned the contest into a three-way race.


Although his Liberals eked out a minority government, Charest
lost his own seat to a Parti Quebecois neophyte.


As well, a minority Liberal government leaves open the
possibility of early elections and a possible vote on Quebec
independence thereafter, with hostile separatists and Quebec
nationalists in opposition.


Quebec held referendums on seceding from Canada in 1980 and 1995.
Federalists led by Charest narrowly won the second ballot.


The ADQ was not expected to form a government, but won enough
seats to ordain the first Quebec minority government since 1878.


Throughout the campaign, voters expressed displeasure with
Liberals over promises to lower taxes and to improve health care,
leading to Charest's late campaign collapse.


The ADQ meanwhile whittled support from the two main parties by
seizing on Quebec's dream of nationhood as well as butterflies
over letting go of Canada.


The ADQ offered an alternative to the staunch federalists and
hardline separatists, creating a third way in Quebec politics not
seen since 1976 when the Parti Quebecois emerged to challenge the
federalist status quo.


The rural nationalist conservative demographic once known as the
"vieux fond bleu" and associated with now-defunct parties such as
the Credetistes and Union Nationale, had lost its identity in the
federalist-separatist feud that marked Quebec politics since the
1970s.


They had migrated to the Parti Quebecois, aligning themselves
with urban social democrats to try to build a French-speaking
nation in North America after 1976.


But Conservative Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's
overtures to Quebecers during the past year to bolster his own
party's fortunes rallied the francophone hinterland.


In this election, with no referendum on the horizon and Andre
Boisclair deemed an anemic leader, Quebec conservatives
gravitated to the ADQ.


Prior to the election, the Liberals held 72 seats in Quebec's
National Assembly, the Parti Quebecois 45 seats and the ADQ five.
One member was independent and two seats were vacant.


The ADQ ripened during the campaign.


Harper had cultivated a relationship with Quebec Premier Jean
Charest and addressed some of Quebecers' grievances: a "fiscal
imbalance" that saw Ottawa flush with cash while provinces
struggled to defray public services.


Last week's federal budget included billions of dollars in
transfers from Ottawa to provincial coffers.


Canada's House of Commons also overwhelmingly adopted a
resolution in November stating that the Quebec province
represents a "nation" within Canada in an unprecedented vote
initiated by Harper.


It was the first time a prime minister and Parliament had
recognized the concept of "nation" for the province, even if only
as a symbolic gesture.


Political analysts said Harper hoped to rally support among
voters in Quebec and quell debate over secession.


Harper's ruling Conservatives also needed to make inroads in
Quebec if they hoped to win the next parliamentary elections,
expected in 2007.


These moves were expected to boost Harper's ally Charest in the
campaign, but also unwittingly answered ADQ demands for greater
automony.


If the ADQ had won and Harper failed to satisfy Dumont, pundits
said it could revive separatist forces.


Emboldened by the rise of Quebec conservatives and strong
polling, Harper could now trigger a federal election.

