

Scotland may never have beaten Italy on Italian soil but can have
cause for optimism in Wednesday's Euro 2008 qualifier in Bari
while southern neighbours England must regroup against Andorra in
Barcelona.


Scotland skipper Barry Ferguson has issued a rallying call ahead
of the qualifier against the world champions, and, topping Group
B with 12 points from five matches ahead of both Italy and
France, can confidently expect a good performance.


On a night of 20 qualifiers with the Czech Republic, Spain and
Holland also in action, it is the two British teams which have
taken the spotlight.


Scotland had a dramatic 2-1 win over Georgia on Saturday while
Italy have made a poor start to their qualifying campaign. And
even recent history between the two nations does not necessarily
make worrying reading for Alex McLeish's men.


Although Scotland lost 2-0 the last time they travelled to Italy,
the defeat was down to two moments of individual brilliance from
Andrea Pirlo rather than an outstanding display from the home
side.


Their last encounter saw Scotland unfortunate to be held to a 1-1
draw at Hampden Park and Ferguson sees no reason why confidence
should not be high ahead of the clash in San Nicola Stadium.


He said: "The last time we went over there, they beat us 2-0 but
it was only two free-kicks that won them the game. They didn't
have many chances. Then we played them here and I thought we
dominated the game. We had a few chances.


"We are going over there with no fear. We know they've got world-
class players but the commitment in this team is unbelievable
just now and I think we can go there and get a point."


He added: "We've got to be positive. All the guys in the dressing
room have got to be positive. We beat France, and France and
Italy were in the World Cup final, so it would be great to go
there and get the three points.


"However, realistically, a point would be great for us."


While a draw suits Scotland, Ferguson knows nothing less than a
win will be good enough for Italy. Coach Roberto Donadoni is
already facing calls for the sack after just six games in charge
and Ferguson insists the Azzurri have everything to lose.


He said: "If we had drawn against Georgia, there would have been
a bit of pressure on us. We got the three points that we wanted
against Georgia but we have to be realistic because Italy are one
of the best teams in the world.


"But all the pressure is on them. They've not had the best start
so, if we can keep them quiet for the first 20 minutes, you never
know what could happen. Italy are the team who will be under
pressure."


England, meanwhile, should have little problems against Andorra
in Barcelona on Wednesday but their build-up has been hampered by
the controversial media-hype which often surrounds the team.


England manager Steve McClaren on Monday denied reports of a rift
with striker Wayne Rooney following their weekend goalless draw
against Israel in Tel-Aviv.


There is also speculation that McClaren's days are numbered.


England have fallen five points behind Croatia, the pacesetters
in qualifying Group E, and three adrift of Russia, who currently
occupy the second qualifying spot.


Rooney was allegedly angered by McClaren's decision to single him
out for criticism in the closed-doors inquest at the Ramat Gan
stadium.


Rooney reportedly stormed out of the dressing room after McClaren
highlighted his failure to score a competitive goal for England
since Euro 2004 but McClaren denied the bust-up.


"It is an absolute load of rubbish. Everyone is together and know
what we need to do," he said.


He also scotched talk of a worsening relationship with his
assistant Terry Venables.


"An absolute load of rubbish once again. It's an overreaction and
about people having other agendas. The camp is very strong and
there is great belief," McClaren said.


"My staff are all very good and working together. We stick
together, we get advice from everybody including Terry - great
advice. But, ultimately, I'm in charge and it's my neck on the
block."

