

Pakistani authorities, tribal elders and pro-Taliban militants on
Monday signed the latest in a series of peace deals in the
troubled frontier area, officials said.


The deal was signed in Bajaur, one of Pakistan's seven federally
administered tribal areas bordering Afghanistan, where Al-Qaeda
number two Ayman al-Zawahiri escaped an airstrike in January
2006.


The tribesmen and militants agreed not to give foreign gunmen
safe haven in the area or allow "subversive" activities, while
the authorities pledged not to make arrests without consulting
the elders, officials said.


Pakistan signed peace pacts with pro-Taliban rebels in the South
Waziristan area in 2005 and in North Waziristan in 2006, although
unlike the Bajaur deal those agreements involved the withdrawal
of thousands of troops.


US and NATO officials in Afghanistan criticised the previous
deals, saying they led to an increase in attacks on foreign
troops. Pakistan says they are the best solution to militancy in
the lawless area.


"The local Taliban organisation has authorised me to sign this
agreement and they have assured that they will not take part in
any subversive activity," said Malik Abdul Aziz, a representative
of the pro-Taliban militants.


The deal was signed during a tribal council, or grand jirga,
attended by some 700 tribesmen, elders, clerics, MPs and local
officials in Khar, the main town of Bajaur.


"The administration will not raid our places without any solid
proof and withdraw warrants of arrests issued against our people
on the basis of suspicion," Aziz said.


Local administration chief Shakil Qadir urged the elders to help
"maintain peace and unity and keep an eye on the movement of
suspicious people at the Pakistan- Afghanistan border, so that
enemies of our country fail in their designs to disrupt our
peace."


Anyone who violates the agreement will have their house torched
and demolished and will be expelled from the region, in line with
tribal customs, officials said.


A Pakistani interior ministry official speaking on condition of
anonymity confirmed the deal.


"Under the agreement tribal elders have pledged not to allow
anyone in the area to harbour foreign militants and to expel them
from the area," the official added.


"And the administration has assured them it will respect their
customs."


Pakistan has poured troops into parts of the tribal belt to
combat militants who fled the 2001 fall of Afghanistan's radical
Islamist Taliban regime, after a US- led invasion sparked by the
Taliban's alliance with Al-Qaeda.


Operations in the area have left 700 soldiers and 1,000 militants
dead, according to official figures.


The official said it was "not like Waziristan because there the
army withdrew in return for tribal pledges," whereas in Bajaur
there are almost no government soldiers, only tribal paramilitary
forces.


But Bajaur has seen several violent incidents too. Pro-Taliban
militants recently torched video shops and banned barbers from
shaving beards in Khar, in line with Taliban interpretations of
Islamic custom.


An airstrike on a madrassa in Bajaur in October killed 80 people
and postponed the signing of the peace pact. Officials said it
was an Al-Qaeda training camp but locals said the victims were
students.


An alleged CIA missile strike in Bajaur killed 18 people in
January 2006. Zawahiri, Al-Qaeda's Egyptian deputy leader, was
said to have escaped the attack.


Pakistan's foreign ministry earlier Monday hailed the "successful
strategy" of peace deals after tribesmen in South Waziristan last
week took up arms against Uzbek and Chechen Al-Qaeda militants,
leaving up to 160 people dead.


US Vice President Dick Cheney, however, warned during a visit to
Islamabad last month that Al-Qaeda and the Taliban were
regrouping in Pakistan's tribal areas.

