

Courting death in the most dangerous country in the world, six
Iraqis have abandoned their families to set up a radio and TV
network to promote peace from a heavily guarded desert outpost.


Their antenna rising 350 metres (yards) out of the middle of
nowhere next to buildings protected by American and Iraqi
soldiers, the six-member team gushes fervent hope about how their
message of cohabitation can quell the sectarian killing fields.


Nevertheless most of the original line-up has already quit,
overcome by fear of working for the media in a country where 155
industry workers, 95 percent of them Iraqi, have perished in the
four years since the US-led invasion.


"I received threats. They say 'stop doing this job.' But I
believe in this job, I can't quit," said Samir Khamis, a 28-year-
old Sunni Arab and one of the co- founders of the Independent
Radio and Television Network (IRTN).


Officially inaugurated this week, yet operational for several
months, the flagship studio lies a short drive outside Baquba,
the capital of the violent province of Diyala and rife with
myriad Shiite and Sunni extremist groups.


"I call my family but I haven't seen them in five months. I ask
God to save them and make them safe. We work 14 hours a day, from
eight in the morning until 10 at night," said Samir, convinced
the slog will eventually pay off.


And the sacrifices are hefty. Deprived of their loved ones,
living conditions are tough. The network lacks basics such as
running water. What they have in abundance are US and Iraqi
soldiers.


"We are very secure. We are in the desert but we have everything
to broadcast and to live. It is time where we have to try to stop
the violence," said Samir a news reader.


Aged just 20, beautiful brunette Donia Abdul Latif is presenter,
DJ, editor and producer rolled into one, bringing a youthful
ideological fervency to the job and declaring that her dream is
to help Iraqis and help them unify.


"I am trying to help Iraqis get freedom. Freedom is not to fight
or to kill someone. Freedom is to speak freely, to be free in the
society, to get dressed the way you want, to do what you want,"
said the blue-eyed girl.


She also wants to defend women's rights from growing Islamic
conservatism. Donia says her Shiite and Sunni parents are
supportive, even if they did try to dissuade her from working for
TV for security reasons.


"This job is very dangerous for us. It is dangerous to talk
freely. But if I am scared and everyone is scared then who will
help Iraq? Nobody."


Staff are promoting IRTN as the only independent homegrown media.
"There are no independent media in Iraq. We need to unify our
people," says Samir.


Despite their independence claims, the news station is guarded
round-the-clock by American and Iraqi troops. The United States
has also put up most of the network's provisional budget of
between 150,000 and 200,000 dollars for 2007.


Other benefactors are the Iraqi government, which has been
accused of actively participating in Shiite-Sunni sectarian
warfare, and the province of Diyala, north of Baghdad.


Americans provide logistical support and buy space for public
awareness campaigns.


Besides current donations, the giant antenna they are using was
actually built on the orders of former president Saddam Hussein
in 1986.


Samir is adamant Uncle Sam has not morphed into Big Brother: "The
Americans are here just for protection. But they don't control
our message. They don't want to control."


"Some of us may die. That may be the cost of freedom. But let us
not be so afraid of dying that we forget how to live... Courage
always runs one step faster than fear," said Shiite co-founder
Rafed Mahmud.


"I was never free under Saddam Hussein. Now the terrorists,
insurgents and death squads want me to live in fear again. I will
not," he added.


The network may want to broadcast messages of peace and unity in
a bid to overcome sectarian warfare that has left tens of
thousands dead since American troops invaded in 2003, but the
vast majority of staff have already quit.


Fifty-five people were part of the original line-up: only six
remain. It seems extremists across the board took issue with
their message of peace and love, coercing the others through fear
or intimidation to quit.


Paul McKellips, a consultant behind the project who is paid by
the US administration, said IRTN was trying to diversify its
revenue and broadcasters and was even looking into how to do
e-commerce.


"These folks are heroes. We have to help them." he said.

