

Former Playboy model Anna Nicole Smith died last month of an
accidental drug overdose, police said Monday, ending weeks of
speculation that foul play may have been involved.


After a six-week probe, investigators said Smith, 39, who died
suddenly in a Florida hotel on February 8, died after taking
anti-anxiety medication, methadone, antibiotics and other
prescription drugs.


"We are convinced, based on an extensive review of the evidence,
that this case is an accidental overdose with no other criminal
element present," said Broward County police chief Charlie Tiger.


"We have reviewed hundreds of hours of video, tape captured by
the hotel security cameras and we found nothing unusual," he
said.


Tiger said a laptop belong to the model's boyfriend Howard Stern
similarly revealed "nothing to indicate any foul play."


Medical examiner Joshua Perper said Smith nine prescription drugs
were found in her system and that she was taking medications for
pain relief, treatment of depression, as well as weight loss
purposes.


"None of these tests found any drugs for addiction such as
opiates cocaine," Perper said.


"What we found however were nine prescription drugs in her blood,
including three medications against anxiety and depression," he
said.


Perper said traces of methadone, the legal opiate which is often
used to treat heroin addiction, as well as prescription drugs
Clonapin, Valium and Ativan were found in her system.


She was also taking "a number of drugs which could be qualified
as longevity drugs or drugs sometimes used for weight reducing
purposes, such as human growth hormone, vitamin B12,
immunoglobulin," Perper said.


"We knew Ms. Smith suffered from abdominal pain," said Perper,
but added that the examination of her remains had turned up no
evidence of disease.


The autopsy result is the latest tragic chapter in the model's
saga. She is buried in the Bahamas alongside her son Daniel, 20,
who died in his mother's hospital room in September, just three
days after Smith gave birth to daughter Danielynn.


Smith had hired a private pathologist who found that Daniel's
heart gave out after taking a lethal cocktail of anti-depressants
Zoloft and Lexapro and methadone.


The buxom centerfold model had become rich after her marriage to
an elderly billionaire oil magnate, and achieved even greater
fame as the protagonist in a bizarre TV reality show.


Since her death, survivors have battled over custody of her body,
her infant daughter, as well as control of her multi-million
dollar estate.


Earlier this month, a Bahamas judge ordered a DNA test to
determine whether Smith's lawyer Stern or former boyfriend Larry
Birkhead is the father of Danielynn. The results are expected
early in April.


Smith was born Vicki Lynn Hogan November 28, 1967, in Mexia,
Texas. Her parents divorced, and she was raised by her mother and
an aunt. She first wed at 17 and quickly had her son Daniel,
divorcing soon after his birth.


After working as a Wal-Mart cashier and waiting on tables, she
became an exotic dancer in Houston. There she met wheelchair-
bound oil billionaire J. Howard Marshall.


On June 27, 1994, 26-year-old Smith married the 89-year-old
Marshall, who died the following year.


She spent the next 12 years battling with her stepson E. Pierce
Marshall over the Marshall fortune, a battle still unresolved
after numerous court rulings.


Smith replaced German supermodel Claudia Schiffer as a model for
Guess Jeans. Smith was also voted Playboy Playmate of the Year
1993.

