

Canada and other supporters of seal-hunting on Monday urged the
European Union not to ban the import of seal products, arguing
that such a move is unfounded and would jeopardise the future of
inuit and other communities.


"We must make a distinction between the myths and the reality,"
Loyola Sullivan, Canada's ambassador for fisheries conservation,
told a press conference in Brussels.


Seal pups have not been hunted for 25 years and adult seals are
no longer skinned alive, he added.


The European parliament has called on the EU's executive arm to
impose a ban on seal products but the European Commission has
refused to do so without first studying the findings of an
investigation by the European Food Safety Authority.


Sullivan said seal-hunting was a "durable" activity which did not
threaten the seal species and that numbers had risen from three
million to 5.5 million in the past 30 years.


Modern-day sealing hunting is carried out "in more humane
conditions than in many abbatoirs," he said, adding that most of
the animals were killed instantly.


Among the inuit people seal meat is an essential part of the diet
in terms of providing protein and "very important culturally"
said Mary Simon, president of an association representing the
Inuit people of the Arctic.


Images a quarter of a century old of hunters clubbing fluffy
white seal cubs can still make people think that "we kill baby
seals like barbarians," bemoaned Dion Dakins, sales and marketing
manager for Atlantic Marine Products, a small company producing
dietary supplements (omega 3) based on seal products.


The European parliament based its call for a moratorium,
reiterated on March 14, on the findings of a group of
veterinarians who said that seals were skinned alive for their
pelts.


Those allegations are false, assured the hunt supporters, who
were scheduled to meet EU Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas
and Fisheries Commissioner Joe Borg.


Belgian parliamentary deputies in January approved a law banning
the sale of seal products.


In Italy a temporary ban is in place.

