

Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore is dreaming of a golden future for
his young side who edged out India for a place in the World Cup
Super Eights.


Bangladesh have made the second round for the first time and will
face Australia, Whatmore's own country, in their next match here
on Saturday.


"It's terrific," said Whatmore of his team whose average age is
just 22.


"We've got a couple of more experienced players, but the vast
majority of them are under 25, which is absolutely perfect for an
emerging team like us.


"They now have an absolutely wonderful opportunity to play
against seven of the world's best sides and they will grow
enormously because of that experience.


"I understand that we are still ranked number nine in the world
and have a long way to go before we are consistently challenging
the big boys. But we've got the resources and talent to really
progress and we will be going to the Super Eights to really enjoy
ourselves.


"And from a personal point of view it's great to be in a position
where your team is playing well and your methods are being
validated."


Whatmore is no stranger to World Cup sensations having been at
the helm when Sri Lanka won the title in 1996.


Bangladesh made the second round with a win over India and a
nervy seven-wicket victory over Bermuda achieved in the semi-
gloom of the Queen's Park Oval on Sunday.


"I thought the game (against Bermuda) was an extremely difficult
one and the boys did brilliantly to keep their focus," said
Whatmore.


"I know we were only chasing a small total (96), but the ball was
doing all sorts of things out there in the first ten overs, and
it took a very brave batting performance from the middle order to
get us through.


"They've never really been in that situation before, with so much
on the line and with so much to lose.


"This is very significant for us. It's something we always
believed we could do if we played to the best of our ability and
had a little bit of luck," Whatmore told reporters.


"We were the first team to arrive in the Caribbean and had a
couple of extra matches in the conditions against Canada and
Bermuda. We've only had one training session called off because
of bad weather and in general our preparation has been as
thorough and as focused as it possibly could be.


"People might think we've caused upsets' but we knew deep down
that we were capable of beating the best teams on our day."

