

Developing Asia's economic growth is set to ease to a more
manageable but still robust 7.6 percent clip this year and 7.7
percent in 2008 as the industrialised countries slow gradually,
the Asian Development Bank said Tuesday.


"These projections imply that growth will move to a more
sustainable footing and that overheating pressures that surfaced
in 2006 will gradually ease," said Haruhiko Kuroda, president of
the Philippines-based ADB.


The bank said in its annual Asian Development Outlook report,
released here Tuesday, that China's efforts to restrain galloping
fixed asset investment are expected to gain more traction in
2007.


Policy curbs and softer external demand should limit China's
gross domestic product (GDP) growth to 10 percent in 2007 and 9.8
percent in 2008 compared to 10.7 percent last year.


East Asia as a whole will see growth of 8.0 percent this year and
next after 8.7 percent in 2006.


In India, steps taken by the central bank to cool inflation are
expected to slow the pace of investment and consumption spending,
it added.


Indian GDP growth is seen easing to 8.0 percent this year and 8.3
percent next, compared to 9.2 percent in 2006. South Asia as a
whole will see growth moderate to 7.7 percent and 8.0 percent
from 8.7 percent in 2006.


"As output growth gently slows in industrial countries, there
will be modest knock-on effects in developing Asia," the report
said. Lower oil prices and domestic tightening measures taken
last year should help rein in inflation and guide growth down, it
added.


"Although growth in most other countries will come off the pace
set in 2006, the region's economic pulse remains strong," it
said.


Southeast Asia growth will slow to 5.6 percent and 5.9 percent
this year and next, after 6.0 percent in 2006 but Indonesia
should pick up to 6.0 percent and 6.3 percent, after 5.5 percent,
as interest rates are cut.


The ADB said prospects were now "much more uncertain" in certain
countries like Thailand, where "consumer and business confidence
is slipping and growth is expected to slow in 2007" after capital
controls in December unsettled markets.


Thai growth will likely fall to 4.0 percent this year and be back
at 5.0 percent in 2008, its 2006 rate.


The bank said prospects for the international economy "remain
broadly favorable" with lower commodity and stable oil prices
generally helping ease inflationary pressures in developing Asia.


The corrections meanwhile in the US housing market "have been
sharp, but not disorderly" and "the chances of a recession are
receding, though not completely," the ADB said.


Growth in the European Union and Japan would meanwhile be "close
to potential."


As industrial output growth eases, "global trade volumes will
expand less quickly than last year but at a still-robust pace.


"However, there are indications that the global electronics cycle
could slip a gear and if capital spending slows more quickly than
anticipated in the US, the downdraft would be felt by Asian
producers."

