

Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leaders hailed Monday as "historic" a UN
plan to grant the Serbian province independence, but despite
widespread world support Belgrade remained bitterly opposed to
the idea.


"Any form of independence for Kosovo is unacceptable for Serbia,"
Serbian President Boris Tadic said in a statement after a
telephone conversation with US Undersecretary of State Nicholas
Burns.


Tadic said Monday he "strongly disagreed" with the United States'
support for UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari's recommendation to grant
Kosovo independence.


Tadic said Belgrade was ready to "constructively engage" in more
talks on the future status of Kosovo, a southern Serbian province
with an ethnic Albanian majority.


"I am convinced that there is room for further dialogue and that
the special envoy ... Martti Ahtisaari did not exhaust all
possibilities for an agreement," said Tadic.


Speaking to reporters in Brussels earlier Monday, Burns
disagreed, saying Washington supported Ahtisaari's proposal to
give supervised independence to Kosovo.


"We are going to issue today a declaration that says we fully
support Martti Ahtisaari's proposal," Burns said. "The US does
support the proposal by Ahtisaari to offer independence under
supervision."


Anger in Belgrade could not have contrasted more with the obvious
elation in the Kosovo capital Pristina.


"It is a historic day for Kosovo," President Fatmir Sejdiu said
in a statement, adding the proposal would resolve the last
remaining unsolved issue in the war- torn Balkans region.


"I want to stress that Kosovo's independence would serve all the
citizens of the country, the Albanian majority and all the
minority communities in Kosovo as well."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon, currently on a Middle East tour, expressed
"full support" for Ahtisaari's proposals in a statement issued by
his office.


Ahtisaari's proposals were also welcomed in London, where Foreign
Secretary Margaret Beckett said they would give the province
"clarity over its future", "It would enable the Balkan region as
a whole to draw a line under the conflicts of the recent past and
move towards a future based around full integration with European
and Euro-Atlantic structures," said Beckett.


The EU presidency, currently held in Germany, agreed, saying the
plan would provide stability.


Ahtisaari's plan "contains wide-ranging provisions intended to
secure the future of all communities in Kosovo, including notably
the Kosovo Serbs," said a statement issued in Berlin.


"It lays the foundation for sustainable economic and political
development in Kosovo and will enhance stability throughout the
region," the statement added.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since
mid-1999, when a NATO bombing campaign helped to halt a brutal
crackdown by Serb forces on ethnic Albanians.


After 13 months of negotiations led by Ahtisaari, both Belgrade
and Kosovo Serbs earlier this month rejected independence for the
province, calling instead for more negotiations.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the Security Council, also
slammed the independence proposal, with Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov calling for more efforts to reach a compromise.


But Kosovo Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's
population of two million, have accepted the Ahtisaari plan and
reject any links with Belgrade.


The UN Security Council is expected to debate the Ahtisaari plan
next month.

