

At least four soldiers were killed when Tamil Tiger rebels
detonated a tractor and trailer packed with explosives at an army
camp in eastern Sri Lanka on Tuesday, a military official said.


The attack came a day after the Tigers carried out their first
ever air raid, bombing a military air base adjacent to Sri
Lanka's international airport and killing three airmen and
wounding 16 others.


In Tuesday's suicide bombing, the vehicle crashed into the
Chenkaladi army camp in Batticaloa district, where government
forces have been conducting intensive operations against the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).


"Four soldiers have been killed and about 10 others wounded," a
military official in Batticaloa told AFP.


He said an office near the camp of a Tamil party opposed to the
Tigers was also destroyed in the attack.


Military sources said the Tigers had tried to stage a similar
suicide bombing against Chenkaladi last week, but that had failed
because the explosives had gone off prematurely.


The Chenkaladi camp was attacked last week together three other
military camps in the coastal Batticaloa district leaving a total
of four soldiers dead and 30 wounded, according to the military.


There was no immediate word from the Tigers about the latest
attack.


Relief workers also raised fresh concerns for the safety of
civilians in Batticaloa as more people fled their homes and
sought the safety of public buildings to avoid getting caught in
the cross fire between troops and rebels.


At least 150,000 people have been internally displaced within
Batticaloa district, where troops and Tamil Tiger rebels have
been trading long-range attacks for weeks.


Security forces have vowed to flush out the Tigers from the
restive eastern region after the military captured the key Tiger
bastion of Vakarai earlier in January after several weeks of
intense battles.


Troops have also tried to capture a jungle base known as
Thoppigala from the Tigers, who are leading a campaign for an
independent homeland for the island's ethnic Tamil minority.


The fighting comes despite a truce in place since February 2002.


More than 60,000 people have been killed in Sri Lanka's Tamil
separatist campaign since 1972.

