

The dollar was mixed in Asian trade Tuesday after disappointing
US housing data and rising oil prices triggered by the Iranian
nuclear crisis, dealers said.


They said players were adjusting dollar positions following
losses on the data overnight, with the market looking ahead to
testimony by US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke and a batch
of Japanese economic indicators.


The dollar rose to 118.25 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 118.09
late in New York on Monday.


The euro firmed to 1.3326 dollars from 1.3300 and to 157.51 yen
from 157.44.


"Data on new home sales for February triggered the dollar's fall
but the New York market has recovered," said Kazuhiko Shibata,
manager at Dresdner Bank's Tokyo branch.


Sales of new US homes fell 3.9 percent in February to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 848,000 units, well below
expectations and the lowest level since June 2000.


But dealers said market players reassessed their positions after
recalling a better-than-expected report last week on US existing
home sales.


"Data on existing home sales was reasonably firm and the problems
in the sub- prime (mortgage) market are not impacting the entire
housing market, so there hasn't been a unilateral sale of the
dollar," Shibata said.


The US housing sector has been hit by jitters over loans to "sub-
prime" customers, or those with patchy credit histories.


Dealers also remained cautious over rising oil prices after the
UN Security Council imposed fresh sanctions against Iran in an
attempt to force it to freeze its uranium enrichment.


"Rising oil prices could impact negatively on the US economy,
which could trigger dollar sales. At the same time, the danger
factor (over the Iranian situation) could lead to dollar-buying
for safety," Shibata said.


Market participants will look carefully at testimony Wednesday by
Bernanke to gauge the outlook of the US economy and the Fed's
next moves on interest rates, dealers said.


In a week thin on the US economic calendar, Japanese traders were
also waiting for a slew of data Friday including inflation and
preliminary industrial production indices for February.


The key Tankan business survey will also be out on April 1.


Bank of Japan Governor Toshihiko Fukui has warned that the
consumer price index could turn negative but has repeatedly said
that the central bank will not stop raising interest rates which
now stand at 0.5 percent.


"Even if inflation figures may move towards zero, the BoJ has a
view to raise rates once more," said Dresdner Bank's Shibata.


"After the release (of the inflation figure) the yen could drop
but it will only be momentary," he added.

