

The Palestinian economy shrank in 2006 due to an international
boycott and frequent bloodshed but proved more resilient than
feared, according to International Monetary Fund reports
published on Monday.


Diplomatic and financial isolation, deadly power struggles
between rival factions, Israeli military offensives in the Gaza
Strip and restrictions on movement further stung the struggling
economy, two reports said.


Despite bright spots, the reports painted a grim picture of the
economy.


Per capita gross domestic product fell by more than 10 percent
last year, nearly 40 percent below its pre-intifada level in
1999, according to the reports.


By the end of 2006, 75 percent of households in the Gaza Strip
were considered poor, compared with 52 percent just nine months
earlier. One-third of Gaza's labour force was out of work.


However, Palestinians found ways to deal with the downturn,
selling off assets, turning to family members living abroad and
increasingly depending on foreign aid, which more than doubled in
2006 despite an international boycott on providing direct funding
to the Hamas-led government.


"The much larger than expected official and private inflows,
including humanitarian assistance and private remittances...
largely explain why the much more dramatic economic decline
projected in early 2006 did not materialise," said one of the IMF
reports, compiled with the World Bank.


"Palestinians seem to have found ways to deal with adversity,
including by selling assets, using whatever savings they have
left, increasing their indebtedness, and support from family
members abroad."


In the West Bank, 33,000 workers were added to the workforce and
private sector bank deposits increased by seven percent in 2006,
an even higher growth rate than in 2005, when deposits increased
by just two percent.


The reports found foreign aid reached 750 million dollars in
2006, more than twice the support received in 2005, as donor
countries channelled money via mechanisms which avoided the
Hamas-led government, boycotted by the West as a terrorist
outfit.


But civil servants received just 50 to 55 percent of their wages
in 2006, triggering widespread strikes and affecting living
standards for the between one-quarter and one-third of all
Palestinians who depend directly on the government for their
wages.


And as huge amounts of aid poured into the Palestinian
territories through makeshift channels, years of Palestinian
Authority finance reforms went up in smoke, the IMF found.


"Much of the progress achieved in the years prior to 2006 to
strengthen the MoF's (ministry of finance) control over
government finances and increase transparency was lost," said an
IMF report on fiscal performance in 2006 in the West Bank and
Gaza.


"The public financial management system became increasingly
fragmented, with no proper budget framework, no central control,
and less transparency and accountability," it added.

