

Stunned geneticists have discovered a pair of twins who are
somewhere between identical and non-identical, the British
science journal Nature reported on Monday.


The world's only known case of "semi-identical" twins almost
certainly arose from two sperm cells that fused with a single
egg, it said.


The ground-breaking toddlers comprise an infant who is a
hermaphrodite, meaning that it has both male and female
genitalia, while the other is a boy whose sexual organs have
developed normally.


"Their similarity is somewhere between identical and fraternal
twins," said Vivienne Souter, lead author of the study, reported
online Nature.


The babies were born in the United States, but their location and
their identity have not been disclosed. They have almost no hope
of survival.


Non-identical, or fraternal, twins are formed when two eggs meet
two sperm in the womb. Each is fertilized independently, and each
becomes an embryo.


With identical twins, one egg is fertilized by one sperm, and the
embryo splits at some later stage to become two distinct -- but
genetically equivalent -- human beings.


In the case reported Monday, one of two things happened, Souter
said.


The first possibility is that an egg cell began to divide,
without separating, and each budding part was then fertilized
with a single sperm. The genes could then have gotten mixed up
before the egg fully separated into two.


Likelier, though, is that two sperm cells fused with a single
egg, creating an embryo with three sets of chromosomes rather
than two.


In this scenario, there was a mixing of genes within the double-
fertilised egg. It then split into two cells, and each cell would
have shed an unwanted set of chromosomes.


As a result, the children would have identical genes from their
mother's side -- but would share only half of their genes on
their father's side.


The study initially appeared in the Journal of Human Genetics,
published in Britain.


A double fertilisation of a single egg is not unheard of but
until now offspring have never been known to survive.


"It's extremely unlikely that we will ever see another case,"
said Charles Boklage, an expert on twinning at Eastern Carolina
University in North Carolina.


Souter said the case raised intriguing questions about twinning.


"It makes me wonder whether the current classification of twins
is an oversimplification," she said.

