

A top aide to embattled Attorney General Alberto Gonzales plans
to use her right to avoid potential self-incrimination, and
decline to answer lawmakers' questions about the firings of eight
US attorneys, her lawyer said Monday.


"The hostile and questionable environment in the present
congressional proceedings is at best ambiguous; more accurately,
the environment can be described as legally perilous" for Monica
Goodling, her lawyer John Dowd said in a statement.


At issue is why the attorneys, appointed by the president, were
fired and what role Gonzales may have played.


Leading Democrats say the White House removed the judges for
partisan reasons, while allies of President George W. Bush say
the prosecutors serve at the pleasure of the president, and the
president has the authority to dismiss them.


Goodling, 33, is on a leave from her post as counsel to the
attorney general and as the Justice Department's White House
liaison.


Gonzales meanwhile took to the national television airwaves to
respond to criticism days after a newly released e-mails showed
he had more involvement in the firings than he first indicated.


"Nothing improper happened here," Gonzales told NBC television.
"I've got nothing to hide in terms of what I've done. And we now
want to reassure the American public that nothing improper
happened here.


Amid many Democratic lawmakers' calls for his resignation, he
said "some day, when I leave this office, I am confident that I
will leave with my integrity."


He insisted: "I asked for their resignation not for improper
reasons.


"I would never have asked for their resignations to interfere
with a public corruption case or in any way to interfere with an
ongoing investigation. I just wouldn't do that. And if you look
carefully at the documentation we've provided to Congress,
there's no evidence of that," Gonzales added.


Gonzales is scheduled to appear in a Senate hearing on April 17.


Copies of e-mail messages and other documents sent by the Justice
Department to Congress indicate Gonzales attended an hour-long
meeting in November on the firings with his then-chief of staff,
Kyle Sampson, the man in charge of putting together a list of
those to be dismissed.


Gonzales however told reporters two weeks ago that the dismissals
were an "effort that was led by Mr. Sampson," and that they
"never had a discussion about where things stood."


Sampson has agreed to testify under oath to a senate committee,
and is scheduled to appear on Thursday.

