

Like most teenagers of his age, 17-year-old Ahmed has great hopes
for the future, even though his past is filled with the
nightmares of Somalia's bloody inter-clan power struggle.


The fighting -- some 16 years of civil war that has defied more
than 14 attempts to restore a functional government -- does not
stop teenagers like Ahmed from dreaming, but their hopes are
often simple, if unobtainable.


"I dream of going to university and becoming someone important,"
Ahmed said, although fighting and a lack of government have
forced higher education institutions in Somalia to be closed for
years.


Surrounded by death, revenge attacks and urban warfare, Ahmed and
his friends identify with elements of hardcore rap hailing from
the tough suburbs of US cities.


"I look like a rap singer," he said, laughing, wearing a baseball
cap sideways on his head and an oversize red T-shirt.


In times of war as in peace, speakers in Mogadishu neighbourhoods
blare out distorted tracks from foreign Hip Hop stars.


Ahmed lives with his uncle. Eight years ago his father left home
one day and did not return.


"One day, he said he was going to graze animals in the bush, we
do not know anything about what happened next," he said, trailing
off. "But I am sure ... I know he is not dead."


His mother and four sisters have migrated to the relative safety
of the northern breakaway republic of Somaliland.


"Sometimes, they send me little money, but it is hard," he said.
"Sometimes I dream that I have enough money to send my mum abroad
with my four sisters, either in Canada or Europe, for them to be
safe."


Ahmed was born barely one year before former dictator Mohamed
Siad Barre was toppled in 1991, plunging the country into chaos.


Many young men like Ahmed have been conscripted into militia
ranks where they are increasingly risking their lives. Suspected
Islamist insurgents battle with Somali troops on an almost-daily
basis in Mogadishu.


Last week saw some of the deadliest fighting there since
Ethiopian and Somali troops drove out an Islamist movement over
the New Year.


Since the start of the year the violence has since claimed dozens
of lives, and forced thousands more to flee.


But Ahmed is not tempted to join a militia.


"I am afraid of them because I have already lost my brother to
the war. I am afraid of the people with guns. They can rape your
sisters in front of you. They can kill you like dogs," he said.


Ahmed's biggest hope for the future now lies with Ugandan
peacekeepers, part of an African Union force that is the latest
attempt to restore normalcy to the troubled Horn of Africa
nation.


The AU mission is the first international peacekeeping venture
since US troops led an ill-fated UN peace operation more than 10
years ago.


"When I saw the Ugandans I was relieved," Ahmed said, after the
troops arrived at the beginning of March.


But so far only 1,500 Ugandan troops have deployed, part of a
planned force of around 8,000, which the AU is struggling to
assemble.


"But I can see they are so few, I don't know what to think,"
Ahmed said. "The militias can attack them and then we will be in
danger again."

