

China will go ahead with building the world's highest airport in
Tibet as part of a 13-billion-dollar investment splurge in the
Himalayan region, state media reported Tuesday.


China will spend more than 100 billion yuan (12.9 billion
dollars) over the next three years on 180 projects in Tibet,
including the airport in northern Ngari prefecture, Xinhua news
agency said, citing the regional government.


The airport will be the fourth in Tibet and another important
plank in China's plan to link the remote Himalayan region with
the rest of China.


A third airport began operating in Nyingchi, southeast Tibet, in
September last year, two months after China launched a railway
line from Beijing to the regional capital of Lhasa.


The Ngari airport will be located 4,300 metres (14,300 feet)
above sea level, making it the highest airport in the world,
according to previous reports in the state press.


The first reports of plans for an airport at Ngari emerged in
2005, although there has been little official mention of it
since.


Xinhua said the 180 projects to receive the 13 billion dollars by
2010 would include other forms of infrastructure, as well as
education, social security and environmental conservation.


One project aims to see 80 percent of Tibet's villages connected
by road, while another intends to provide safe drinking water for
all the region's 2.76 million people, Xinhua said.


"Most of these projects are designed to improve the living
conditions of the people, especially farmers and herdsmen, and to
help them share fruits of the reform and development in Tibet,"
Xinhua cited Tibet's vice chairman, Hao Peng, as saying.


However critics of China's rule of Tibet say new infrastructure
such as the railway and the airport is allowing the nation's
ethnic Han majority to flood the region, exploit its resources
and consolidate its control.


China sent troops in to "liberate" Tibet in 1951. The region's
spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, fled to India in 1959 as an
uprising failed and established his government-in-exile in
Dharamsala.

