

Former Playboy model Anna Nicole Smith died last month of an
accidental drug overdose, police said Monday, ending weeks of
speculation that foul play may have been involved.


The 39-year-old busty blonde who collapsed suddenly in a Florida
hotel last month died due to a toxic combination of least nine
drugs including anti-anxiety medication, methadone, antibiotics
and other prescriptions.


Her death was eerily similar to that of her son Daniel, 20, who
died in September from a lethal cocktail of prescription
medications and methadone, a legal drug that is typically given
to ease heroin addiction.


The results of the six-week probe were yet another twist in the
former topless dancer's saga, who skyrocketed to fame as a model
for Guess jeans, married an elderly billionaire, paraded her life
on a reality TV show and became a weight- loss icon.


After a six-week probe, investigators said there was no evidence
of illicit drugs or criminal interference in Smith's death.


"We are convinced, based on an extensive review of the evidence,
that this case is an accidental overdose with no other criminal
element present," said Broward County police chief Charlie Tiger.


Medical examiner Joshua Perper said she was taking medications
for pain relief, treatment of anxiety, as well as weight loss
purposes.


"None of these tests found any drugs for addiction such as
opiates cocaine," Perper said.


"What we found however were nine prescription drugs in her blood,
including three medications against anxiety and depression," he
said.


Perper said traces of methadone as well as prescription drugs
Clonapin, Valium and Ativan were found in her system.


She was also taking "a number of drugs which could be qualified
as longevity drugs or drugs sometimes used for weight reducing
purposes, such as human growth hormone, vitamin B12,
immunoglobulin," Perper said.


"We knew Ms. Smith suffered from abdominal pain," said Perper,
but added that the examination of her remains had turned up no
evidence of disease.


The autopsy report said Smith's "died of acute combined drug
intoxication."


It also said she had a minor infection in her left buttocks from
injecting drugs there as well as inflammation of the intestinal
tract caused by a virus, two factors which contributed to her
death.


Smith is buried in the Bahamas alongside her son Daniel, 20, who
died in his mother's hospital room in September, just three days
after Smith gave birth to daughter Danielynn.


A private pathologist found that Daniel's heart gave out after
taking a lethal cocktail of anti-depressants Zoloft and Lexapro
and methadone.


The buxom centerfold model had become rich after her marriage to
an elderly billionaire oil magnate, and achieved even greater
fame as the protagonist in a TV reality show.


Since her death, survivors have battled over custody of her body,
her infant daughter, and her multi-million dollar estate.


Earlier this month, a Bahamas judge ordered a DNA test to
determine whether Smith's lawyer Stern or former boyfriend Larry
Birkhead is the father of Danielynn. The results are expected
early in April.


Smith was born Vicki Lynn Hogan November 28, 1967, in Mexia,
Texas. Her parents divorced, and she was raised by her mother and
an aunt. She first wed at 17 and quickly had her son Daniel,
divorcing soon after his birth.


After working as a Wal-Mart cashier and waiting on tables, she
became an exotic dancer in Houston. There she met wheelchair-
bound oil billionaire J. Howard Marshall.


On June 27, 1994, 26-year-old Smith married the 89-year-old
Marshall, who died the following year.


She spent the next 12 years battling with her stepson E. Pierce
Marshall over the Marshall fortune, a battle still unresolved
after numerous court rulings.


Smith replaced German supermodel Claudia Schiffer as a model for
Guess Jeans. Smith was also voted Playboy Playmate of the Year
1993.

