

South Korea warned the United States Tuesday that a final make-
or-break round of free trade talks could break down unless
Washington stops pushing to open up the local rice market.


"The deal could collapse if the United States sticks to demands
that we cannot accept, such as rice," Trade Minister Kim Hyun-
Chong told a meeting of ruling party legislators before the talks
went into their second day.


The two countries must complete negotiations by Friday but South
Korean negotiators have said they will ignore the deadline rather
than accept an unpalatable deal.


Kim said any deal on a free trade agreement (FTA) should reflect
South Korea's economic interests "in a balanced manner."


"I can say that 90 percent of the deal has been completed but it
is more difficult to tackle the remaining 10 percent," Kim said,
according to Yonhap news agency.


Agriculture accounts for only three percent of South Korea's
gross domestic product but rice has strong cultural significance
and farmers have a long tradition of militancy in trying to keep
foreign imports out.


They, along with other workers and anti-globalisation activists,
say an FTA which opens the way for cheaper imports would threaten
their jobs and depress wages.


Three lawmakers are on hunger strike against any deal. One of
them, independent member Im Jong-In, said the negotiations "will
ruin our country."


Another, Moon Sung-Hyun who heads the leftist Democratic Labor
Party, has been fasting for nearly three weeks outside the
presidential office.


But a majority of lawmakers see a deal as in the country's
interests, according to a poll this week by Chosun Ilbo
newspaper.


Total two-way trade was worth 74 billion dollars last year and an
agreement could boost this figure by about 20 percent, according
to some studies.


South Korea is pushing for a pact to try to make its economy more
competitive to meet a growing export challenge from China.


For the United States, a deal would be its biggest since the 1993
North American Free Trade Agreement.


In addition to the rice row, South Korea wants to phase out
tariffs over 10 years on other sensitive food products while the
United States seeks immediate action.


The auto trade is also a source of friction. Seoul sold more than
800,000 vehicles worth 10.8 billion dollars in the United States
last year, while US firms exported only some 4,000 vehicles the
other way.


Washington wants Seoul to cut its eight percent tariff on
American cars and change its engine displacement-based tax
system. South Korea demands the United States phase out its 2.5
percent tariff on autos within three years.


Other contentious items include Seoul's recent bans on shipments
of US beef.


The issue is not part of an FTA accord but US officials say their
legislators will not approve any overall pact without a beef
deal.


South Korea last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over mad
cow fears and agreed to accept boneless beef but it rejected
three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments, in what
the US side called a pretext to protect Korean farmers.

