

The bankrupted Yukos empire built up by jailed oligarch Mikhail
Khodorkovsky is to be dismantled in a series of auctions
beginning Tuesday of assets valued at 22 billion dollars.


The first auction will be for a 9.44 percent stake in Rosneft,
with a starting price of 7.4 billion dollars (5.6 billion euros),
and is to take place at Yukos headquarters in Moscow.


Yukos was once Russia's largest oil producer and Khodorkovsky,
who acquired the company during a time of shady privatisation
deals in the early 1990s, was feted in the West as a model
capitalist.


The ambitious entrepreneur quickly rose to become Russia's
wealthiest man.


Starting in 2003, however, fraud inquiries seen by critics as
steered by the Kremlin and aimed against the increasingly
politically-minded Khodorkovsky, bankrupted his oil group and
landed him with an eight-year prison sentence.


State-controlled Rosneft, now the second largest oil producer
after Lukoil, swooped in 2004 to buy up Yukos' main production
unit, Yuganskneftegaz, for billions of dollars less than the
unit's assessed value.


Rosneft is poised to take the lion's share of the Yukos assets to
be sold off this year and has recently taken out a loan of 22
billion dollars for the purpose, analysts said.


Rosneft itself and British-Russian energy major TNK-BP have
declared their interest in bidding for the Rosneft stake.
Russia's federal property fund, which is arranging the auctions,
has declined to say if there are other interested buyers.


But have analysts said that TNK-BP, Russia's third largest oil
producer, is only participating ensure the auction goes ahead as
it would be cancelled if there was only one buyer.


Other lots announced so far for the auctions, which are to be
completed by August, include stakes in power companies, banks,
security outfits and oil firms.


The sale of other Yukos assets could herald more bidders and more
surprises, with the likely involvement of foreign energy groups
such as US oil major Chevron and a consortium of Italian energy
groups ENI and Enel.


A court-appointed bankruptcy administrator, Eduard Rebgun,
earlier said remaining assets were worth 22 billion dollars. But
Yukos management and independent analysts say the real value is
up to 40 billion dollars.


The sale of the assets is intended to compensate 68 creditors for
debts incurred by Yukos in the course of the investigations,
which have been estimated at 27.5 billion dollars (20.7 billion
euros).

