

Fast rising South Korean star Park Tae-hwan is capable of beating
Ian Thorpe's 400m freestyle world record, the Australian coach
has who overseen his rise says.


The 17-year-old produced a storming finish to upset defending
champion Grant Hackett and win the 400m world title here on
Sunday in a time of three minutes 44.30 seconds.


It was more than three seconds outside Thorpe's world best
3:40.08 but his coach Wayne Lawes is confident there is plenty
more to come from a swimmer dubbed "the Thorpe of Asia" in Korea.


"Absolutely (he can get to 3:40). I think he raced to win (on
Sunday) but he's got more in the tank," Lawes told The Australian
newspaper.


Thorpe was already a 3:40 swimmer at Park's age but Lawes said
the Korean would develop later because of his different body
type. Park is a lot lighter than Thorpe.


"With him getting older his 200m will get better and his 1500m
will get better, once he gets his mature adult strength. He's a
very, very exciting prospect at 17," Lawes said.


"A lot of swimmers have speed but I think he's got more explosive
speed as he showed to come home in 26.06 seconds (in the last lap
of the 400m final).


"That was a very mature swim to sit in the field and be fifth
with 100m to go."


Park hooked up with Dawes two months ago after his heroics at the
Asian Games in December, where he won the 200m-400m-1500m
freestyle treble which earned him a two-year 3.2 million US
dollar sponsorship deal with Speedo.


It allowed him to move to Melbourne ahead of the world
championships and employ Lawes as well as a weight trainer, a
translator and a nutritionist.


Lawes said their training regime was directed entirely towards
winning at the Beijing Olympics, where he fancies his charge
could beat Hackett in the 1500m, a distance the Australian has
not lost in for a decade.


"I still think Grant's experience and background will show (in
the 1500m at the world championships," Lawes told the newspaper.


"He showed a lot of heart on Sunday. But when you are racing with
confidence anything is possible. In Park's case, I think he needs
more race strategy in the 1500m.


"He needs to learn a little bit more about racing it, but by
Beijing he will be right there. He's going to be a real, real
threat when he's another year or 18 months stronger."

