

In the heart of Taliban country, two Canadian armoured vehicles
belt along a road that cuts through green fields of opium that
are strangely deserted.


Then, an explosion. A cloud of dust enveloped one of the
vehicles.


"Hey... another one," shouted Captain Steve Graham, watching the
bomb blast from his post at the top of a sandy hill in Ghundy
Ghar, 40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest of Kandahar city.


Further on a handful of labourers tended to their fields of
opium, perhaps protected by the Taliban, as though nothing
happened.


The vehicle was damaged but there were no casualties. Last year
the Canadian military lost 36 troops serving with NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).


This is the area where the Taliban picked up arms in the early
1990s. Today it is deeply embroiled in an insurgency launched
after the extremists were driven from government in 2001.


"In this area every day we face bombs, remote-controlled or
booby-trapped, not to mention suicide attacks and rocket fire,"
said Canadian battalion commander Colonel Robert Walker, visiting
250 of his soldiers taking part in Operation Achilles, launched
three weeks ago.


There has been intense fighting in the past few days about 60
kilometres further west, in Helmand province, between Taliban and
British soldiers, also taking part in Achilles, a huge ISAF and
Afghan operation.


The task of these Canadian soldiers is to prevent Taliban
reinforcements entering Helmand from Kandahar province through
this valley, an oasis between two deserts and surrounded by bare
hills.


But it is as difficult for the Canadian soldiers to detect small
groups of about five Taliban sneaking across a bushy landscape as
it is for them to get their hands on the men behind the regular
bombings.


"Some people will accuse an individual but is it because they
support the government or because they hate the Taliban, or for
other reasons? Who knows?" said commander David Quick.


There are 13 tribes in the area "who do not always agree with
each other," he said.


Not far from Ghundy Ghar, near the village of Singesar, where the
Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar launched his extremist
movement, troops were sweeping an area that seems deserted.


"The Taliban were here a little while ago. They planted bombs. We
have to find out where," explained officer Mark Sheppard, in
charge of the operation.


"Sometimes we are welcomed, sometimes we are not. We can tell
what the reaction of the adults will be based on that of their
children. If they pretend to be carrying a gun, we know we will
not be welcomed," he said.


"Most of the people sit on the fence because they don't know what
the outcome of all this fighting will be. I don't blame them. I
would do the same thing," he said.


His young Afghan interpreter said people were afraid.


"When the Canadian soldiers leave, the Taliban will come back.
People don't want problems so they keep quiet," said Abdul, who
covered his face to protect his identity.


Back at Ghundy Ghar, on the sandy hill, Steve Graham sighed: "We
will never be able to beat them totally.


"All we can do is to win time to allow the police and army and
Afghan institutions to become stronger."

