

Australian David Hicks, the first suspect to be subjected to the
controversial US military tribunals against "enemy combatants,"
was formally charged Monday with supporting terrorism.


More than five years since he was captured in Afghanistan, Hicks,
31, appeared at a hearing at Guantanamo Bay under tight security
and amid persistent criticism of Washington's treatment of terror
suspects held at this remote US naval base.


Hicks is the first "war on terror" detainee at the US-run prison
to be tried under a new law that revived the tribunals after the
US Supreme Court threw out the previous system created by an
order from President George W. Bush.


He arrived in the chamber dressed in khaki prison garb with
chest-length hair but clean-shaven, escorted by two uniformed,
unarmed soldiers. He was not wearing handcuffs or shackles.


When the judge asked Hicks if he could understand him, Hicks
replied in his thick Australian accent, "Yeah."


The Hicks case has become a political headache for Australia's
conservative government, which has been accused of failing to
intervene forcefully to win the release of one of its citizens.


Following lobbying by Australian officials, the US government has
promised that if convicted, Hicks can serve his sentence in an
Australian prison.


A former horse trainer in the Australian outback and kangaroo
skinner, Hicks is accused of lending "material support to
terrorism."


He allegedly underwent training at an Al-Qaeda camp in Kandahar,
Afghanistan and volunteered to fight alongside Taliban forces
during the US-led invasion.


The charge sheet does not allege Hicks fired on US troops or
attacked a US target, but says he conducted surveillance on the
abandoned US embassy in Kabul and met Osama bin Laden as well as
accused "shoe bomber" Richard Reid.


Previous charges of attempted murder, conspiracy and aiding the
enemy have been dropped. Hicks' defense lawyers say the move
shows US authorities have a weak case against their client.


On the eve of the hearing, one of his lawyers said Hicks was
considering a possible plea deal but declined to offer more
details.


His time in detention, often in virtual isolation, has taken a
toll, said David McLeod, an Australian lawyer serving on his
defense team.


"Today he had dark, sunken eyes and he looked very tired," said
McLeod on Sunday, after meeting with Hicks for more than three
hours.


Hicks, who sported a military-style haircut in photos from his
younger days, has grown his hair long so he could shield his eyes
at night to block out light in his cell and allow him to sleep,
McLeod said.


Hicks has alleged he was beaten during interrogations in
Afghanistan and on US naval ships before he was taken to
Guantanamo in 2002.


While Hicks was approaching Monday's hearing with "some degree of
trepidation," McLeod said his client was looking forward to
seeing his father, Terry Hicks, and his sister for a scheduled
hour-long visit before the hearing.


His father and sister sat in the audience and watched the
proceedings.


Terry Hicks had not seen his son since August 2004 and said
before his arrival that his son's mental state was a "huge
concern."


Asked if he was pleased his son was having his day in court after
repeated delays, he told Australian Broadcasting Corporation:
"He's having a day but it's not a court."


Condemned by human rights groups as a legal blackhole, the
tribunals allow for hearsay, evidence obtained through "coercion"
and bar detainees from appealing their detention in US courts.


In a statement Monday, Human Rights Watch said that the use of
coercive methods, "creates the possibility that detainees who
wanted to make the abuse stop may have made false confessions and
false accusations."


But Colonel Morris Davis, the chief prosecutor for the tribunals,
or commissions, has defended the legal framework as comparable to
international tribunals set up to try war crimes in former
Yugoslavia or Rwanda.


"I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of here at
Guantanamo Bay," Davis told reporters.

