

Shay Given has been passed fit for the Republic of Ireland's
must-win Euro 2008 Group D qualifier against Slovakia at Croke
Park on Wednesday with coach Steve Staunton also hopeful over
Stephen Ireland's availability.


Both players suffered knocks in Saturday's 1-0 win over Wales but
Newcastle goalkeeper Given is now set to start and equal Packie
Bonner's goalkeeping record of 80 international caps for Ireland
between 1981-1994.


Given did not train on Monday but the knee problem is not serious
enough to prevent him facing Slovakia.


Staunton also confirmed that he is hopeful over Ireland's fitness
despite the Manchester City midfielder suffering a thigh injury
that forced him off the pitch on Saturday.


Ireland has scored both of his country's winners in their last
two games.


"Shay Given didn't train. He is a wee bit sore, but no problems
for the game on Wednesday night," said Staunton.


"Stevie Ireland trained, so we'll wait and see in the next couple
of hours if there is any reaction.


"Hopefully not. He trained well. We're delighted, but as I say we
won't know until we get back to the hotel.


"And you'd probably love me to go into the strategy for the game
on Wednesday night, but you can understand why I can't do that
now."


Ireland admitted he was desperate to play.


"I am desperate to be involved as these are once-in-a-lifetime
opportunities and you do not want to miss out," he said.


"I can play through the pain barrier. A lot of players can, so I
am willing to do that and go again."


Irish skipper Robbie Keane is suspended for the game with
Reading's Kevin Doyle likely to replace him.


The Republic of Ireland are third in their group, three points
behind leaders Germany, who have played a game less.


Slovakia are fourth just one point behind The Republic of Ireland
and also with a game in hand.


The Irish have taken 10 points from their last four matches.


If they beat Slovakia it will be their fourth successive
qualifying Group D win. On the three previous occasions the
Republic or Ireland have achieved such a feat they went on to
reach the 1990, 1994 and 2002 World Cup finals.

