

Australian David Hicks pleaded guilty to a charge of supporting
terrorism on Monday before a US military tribunal.


Looking somber with his hands clasped in front of him, Hicks, 31,
stood beside his military lawyer who told the judge his client
would not contest the charge of providing "material support for
terrorism.


The plea came at a hastily arranged hearing a day after defense
lawyers said Hicks was weighing a possible plea deal that could
get him out of Guantanamo Bay, where he has spent more than five
years at a US-run prison for "war on terror" detainees.


The chief prosecutor for the tribunals had said previously that a
20-year sentence would be a "reasonable" benchmark for Hicks. It
was not clear if the military authorities would take into account
his time served at the Guantanamo prison.


Hicks was captured in 2001 by the US-backed Northern Alliance in
Afghanistan, and handed over to the United States, which
eventually transferred him to the Guantanamo camp.


The plea followed a three hour hearing which was supposed to
clear the way for a trial against Hicks before a special US
military tribunal.


A former horse trainer in the Australian outback and kangaroo
skinner, Hicks was accused of undergoing training at an Al-Qaeda
camp in Kandahar, southern Afghanistan and volunteered to fight
alongside Taliban forces during the US-led invasion.


The charge sheet does not allege Hicks attacked a US target, but
says he conducted surveillance on the abandoned US embassy in
Kabul and met Osama bin Laden as well as accused "shoe bomber"
Richard Reid.


The Hicks case has became a major political issue in Australia,
with the conservative government lobbying Washington to expedite
the case.


Previous charges of attempted murder, conspiracy and aiding the
enemy have been dropped, with defense lawyers saying the move
shows US authorities have a weak case.


Hicks, who sported a military-style haircut in photos from his
younger days, has grown his hair long so he could shield his eyes
at night to block out light in his cell and allow him to sleep,
his defense lawyers say.


Before the hearing, Hicks had a visit with his father and sister
-- his first contact with family since 2004 -- in a tearful
reunion that lasted more than two hours, said his father, Terry
Hicks.


Condemned by human rights groups as a legal blackhole, the
tribunals allow for hearsay, evidence obtained through "coercion"
and bar detainees from appealing their detention in US courts.

