

Hundreds of North and South Koreans separated for more than half
a century smiled and wept Tuesday as they greeted loved ones
hundreds of miles away via video link.


With relations improving following the North's denuclearisation
pledge, the two sides resumed video reunions for 865 people from
120 families, all of them separated since the 1950-1953 war on
the peninsula.


In the first video sessions for 13 months, lost-lost relatives
will be able to greet each other in two-hour private conferences
lasting until Thursday, the South's Red Cross said.


The two sides set up 13 studios, one in the North's capital
Pyongyang and 12 in the South's nine major cities including
Seoul.


Emotions ran high in the South when the television screen began
showing family members in a Pyongyang hotel room.


A 72-year-old North Korean knelt and bowed deeply to his 102
-year-old South Korean father, Choe Byeong-Ok, who had been
escorted by his family to a video room in Suwon south of Seoul.


"You must be my father, being old and weak. Here's my greeting to
you, father, who had left behind three children," said the son
Ji-Ho, shedding tears.


"Don't feel sad. Let's lead the rest of our life in joy and
become reunited after reunification," said Choe Byeong-Ok,
according to a Red Cross official who witnessed the exchange.


Father and son wept and laughed while exchanging greetings,
showing family photos and asking after other missing relatives.


They later sang a song entitled "Our wish is reunification!" at
Ji-Ho's request.


At the Red Cross headquarters in Seoul, there were similar
emotional scenes.


"Since leaving my home town (in the South), a day has never
passed without missing our parents," a 75-year-old North Korean,
Choeng Won-Yong, told his southern sisters by video.


"I did not sleep well last night because I have missed you so
much," responded sister Cheong Seok-Yong, 64.


"Neither did I. I missed you so much," Won-Yong replied.


It was unclear to what extent the comments in the communist North
were being monitored. The South's Red Cross allowed reporters to
watch some conversations if relatives consented.


The family reunions are a pressing issue because many are ageing
and desperate to greet loved ones before dying. In the South the
video reunions aim to help those too old to travel for face-to-
face meetings.


More than 90,000 people from South Korea alone have still not
seen their loved ones in half a century. No mail or telephone
services are available to civilians across the heavily fortified
border.


"We just cannot relieve the pain of the separated families by
allowing merely 200 to 300 people a year to have reunions," the
South's Red Cross chief Han Wan- Sang told his northern
counterpart in a video conference, calling for more reunions.


"The family reunions should continue to be held on a regular
basis. They should not be suspended for political reasons,"
Seoul's Unification Minister Lee Jae- Joung said on a tour of the
centres.


Some 1,876 Koreans from 279 families were reunited via video link
between August 2005 and February 2006.


In adddition, more than 13,000 Koreans have been allowed face-to-
face reunions since a landmark 2000 summit. The last round was in
June last year and the next will be at the North's Mount Kumgang
resort on May 9-14.

