

Senate Democrats kicked off a new tussle with President George W.
Bush over Iraq Monday, defying his veto threats and pushing a
measure which sets a goal of withdrawing most US troops within a
year.


Party leaders launched their bid to tie funding for continuing
the war to a timeline for ending the bulk of US combat
operations, after the House of Representatives endorsed its own
withdrawal deadline last week.


But Republicans parried with an attempt to strip the Democratic
withdrawal timetable inserted in a 121.6 billion dollar war
spending bill, during opening shots in an emotional Senate
debate.


They also demanded time for Bush's new troop surge strategy,
aimed at quelling raging violence in Iraq, to yield results.


The latest stage in the bitter confrontation between the White
House and Congress unfolded amid new signs that public anxiety
over the war, which helped power the Democratic takeover of
Congress last year, was mounting.


A poll by The Pew Research Center for the People and the Press
found six in ten Americans wanted their congressional
representative to vote to get US  troops out of Iraq by August
2008.


Veteran Democratic Senator Robert Byrd opened the debate on the
war funding measure, heralding the fifth year of what he said was
a "terrible war."


"Our job in the Senate is not to look backwards, but to look
forwards, the constitution clearly gives the Congress the power
... to decide when this nation should go to war ... and the power
of the purse."


But Republican Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell vowed to
fight to "put an end to this unfortunate misguided effort to set
an arbitary date on which to withdraw from Iraq."


And Republican colleague Senator Thad Cochran warned "Congress
should not be tying the hands of our commanders."


The Senate war spending bill for Iraq and Afghanistan includes a
call for a withdrawal from Iraq to start almost immediately, with
a goal of completion by March 31, 2008. Exceptions would be
soldiers waging anti-terror operations, training Iraqi forces and
protecting US personnel.


Debate on the bill was due to resume on Tuesday. The latest
showdown came after the House last week narrowly passed its own
124 billion dollar version of the spending bill for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, including a firm deadline for getting US
troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


Bush has vowed to veto any legislation that calls for a timetable
for withdrawal, and accused Democratic leaders of playing
political games while US troops are locked in battle.


It was not clear whether Senate Democratic leaders, hoping to
inexorably pile pressure on Bush and Republican allies would be
able to gather enough votes in the 100-seat chamber to preserve
the timetable language.


On March 15, the Senate voted against a previous Democratic
resolution intended to establish a timeline for withdrawing
troops.


Once Senate bill is passed, it must be reconciled with the House
version, before it is sent for Bush's signature. If any timetable
is included, Bush has vowed a veto, a move which could provoke a
constitutional standoff.


Vice President Dick Cheney vowed late Saturday that the
administration would not allow any early withdrawal of US forces
from Iraq.


"A sudden withdrawal of our coalition would dissipate much of the
effort that has gone into fighting the global war on terror and
result in chaos and mounting danger," he said.


Bush said Saturday that if Congress does not fund the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan by April 15, forces in both countries would
face "significant disruptions."


The Pew poll found that 59 percent of Americans wanted their
congressional representative to vote to get troops out of Iraq by
August 2008.


Only 36 percent of those polled nationwide thought Bush's plan to
surge more troops into the conflict would work.

