

Free hugs, advice from a spastic ninja and band members
performing on a stage of eight treadmills won users' choice
awards, which YouTube announced on Monday.


"Instead of seeing a way to share videos, they saw an opportunity
for worldwide visibility and through their success have changed
the landscape of how a 'star' is defined," Jamie Byrne, head of
YouTube marketing, said in an online announcement of the winners.


US band OK Go won in the Most Creative category for a music video
filmed in one continuous shot as the four musicians synchronized
their movements on eight treadmills.


"It's incredible how quickly and completely YouTube is changing
culture," said OK Go front man Damian Kulash. "We can't wait to
get our trophy."


A music video of Australian Juan Mann spreading happiness by
giving free hugs to strangers in Sydney won the Most
Inspirational category.


YouTube users voted for their favorites among original content
posted in 2006.


A video advice column stars a ninja in the traditional black garb
of the Japanese fighters whose trademark sign-off is "I look
forward to killing you soon" was voted Best Series.


College students Anthony Padilla and Ian Hecox, collectively
branded Smosh, won Best Comedy with a video of a man apparently
stranded on an island. His log book entries of starvation and
cannibalism end as the camera pulls back and the wider shot shows
he is on a beach of families and sun-worshipers.


Classically trained singer and guitarist Terra Naomi of Los
Angeles won Musician of the Year with an acoustic version of her
song "Say It's Possible."


Naomi's video caught the eye of Island Records, which offered her
a contract.


Winning the Best Commentary category was "The Winekone," an
opinion piece on a video it derided as the worst ever.


Users crowned "Kiwi" the Most Adorable YouTube video from 2006.
It features a kiwi, a flightless bird, who gives its life to
fulfill its dream of knowing what it is like to fly.


The winning videos can be viewed online at
www.youtube.com/ytawards.


Search engine giant Google recently bought YouTube, of San Bruno,
California for 1.65 billion dollars.

