

UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari on Monday recommended
supervised independence for Kosovo as the only option for the
breakaway Serbian province, an idea immediately hailed by
Kosovo's president but rejected by Belgrade.


"Independence is the only option for a politically stable and
economically viable Kosovo," Ahtisaari said in his long-awaited
report on the future status of the ethnic-Albanian majority
province in southern Serbia.


"Only in an independent Kosovo will its democratic institutions
be fully responsible and accountable for their actions," he
added.


Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leaders immediately hailed Ahtisaari's
plan but Serbia, which views Kosovo as the birthplace of its
civilization, remained bitterly opposed to it.


Kosovo Albanians make up 90 percent of the province's population
of two million.


The United Nations has administered the Serbian province since
1999, after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb
forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on the majority ethnic
Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


"It is a historic day for Kosovo," President Fatmir Sejdiu said
in a statement, adding the independence proposal would resolve
the last remaining unsolved issue in the war-torn Balkans region.


"Any form of independence for Kosovo is unacceptable for Serbia,"
Serbian President Boris Tadic countered in a statement after a
telephone conversation with US Undersecretary of State Nicholas
Burns.


Tadic said Belgrade was ready to "constructively engage" in more
talks on the future status of Kosovo.


Ahtisaari's contentious plan is to be debated next month by the
Security Council, which must approve Kosovo's future status.


The German presidency of the European Union, the United States
and Britain threw their support behind the independence plan.


"The presidency of the European Union strongly supports the
proposal put forward by the former president of Finland," the EU
presidency, currently held by Germany, said in a statement.


In Brussels, Burns said Washington would issue a statement later
in the day stating that "we fully support Martti Ahtisaari's
proposal."


Burns said that a UN Security Council resolution on the
province's future status could be adopted "in April or May."


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the Council, has however
objected to the independence proposal, with Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov calling for more efforts to reach a compromise.


Burns remained cautious when asked how objections voiced by
Russia would be handled.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett welcomed Ahtisaari's
recommendations, saying they would give the province "clarity
over its future."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon, currently on a Middle East tour, also
expressed 'full support" for Ahtisaari's proposals in a statement
issued by his office here.


In his report, Ahtisaari made it clear that in the initial phase,
international supervision of an independent Kosovo would be
required.


"While independence for Kosovo is the only realistic option,
Kosovo's capacity to tackle the challenges of minority
protection, democratic development, economic recovery and social
reconciliation on its own is still limited," he noted.


"I therefore propose that the exercise of Kosovo's independence
... be supervised and supported for an initial period by
international civilian and military presences."


That international "supervisory role would come to an end only
when Kosovo has implemented the measures set forth in the
settlement proposal," the UN mediator added.


After 13 months of negotiations led by Ahtisaari, both Belgrade
and Kosovo Serbs earlier this month rejected independence for the
province, calling instead for more negotiations.


Pointing out that "a return to Serbian rule over Kosovo would not
be acceptable" to the Albanian majority, Ahtisaari said:
"Autonomy of Kosovo within the borders of Serbia ... is simply
not tenable."


Under the scheme, the province would adopt a constitution within
120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time the
mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo will end.


General and local elections are to be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced.


An international civilian representative, who will be a European
Union representative, would oversee the implementation of the
plan while having no direct role in administering Kosovo.


He will be aided by a NATO-led military mission and an EU police
force which will "monitor, mentor and advise on all areas related
to the rule of law."

