

European nations should pay reparations for the horrors of the
slave trade, Guyanese President Bharrat Jagdeo said Monday,
denouncing as mere lip service recent comments condemning
slavery.


"Now that some members of the international community have
recognised their active role in this despicable system, they need
to go one step further and support reparations," Jagdeo said.


His apparent swipe at British Prime Minister Tony Blair came in
an address to mark the 200th anniversary of the abolition of
slavery in Britain.


The Guyanese leader called on the international community to
recognize that there was not only a Jewish Holocaust, but also an
African one.


"Otherwise, their remarks about the horrors of the slave trade
and slavery become meaningless and platitudinous and such remarks
may be expressed merely to absolve guilt," said Jagdeo.


Blair on Sunday expressed "deep sorrow and regret" for Britain's
role in the slave trade, but stopped short of offering a full
apology despite repeated calls to do so in the run-up to the
bicentenary.


Jagdeo, a descendant of indentured labourers brought from India
at the end of slavery to work on sugar cane plantations, noted
that Europe has "shown little inclination" to offer reparations.


And he charged that European nations were even now supporting an
unfair world trading system that impoverishes, hurts and
subjugates small poor and vulnerable countries in Africa and the
Caribbean.


Preferential market access for African Caribbean and Pacific
(ACP) bananas, sugar and rice to Europe have been eroded through
new global trade rules set up by the World Trade Organization
(WTO).


Jagdeo told the gathering that included British High Commissioner
Fraser Wheeler that he was not celebrating the "goodness" of the
British parliament in passing the abolition of slave trade act on
March 25, 1807.


Instead the slave trade and slavery were abolished thanks to
slave revolts and an outcry led by church leaders and
abolitionists such as British MP William Wilberforce.


Nearly three million black people are thought to have been
shipped across the North Atlantic Ocean in British slave boats
between 1700 and the start of the 19th century.


Trade in black slaves was banned throughout the British empire by
the 1807 law, imposing a fine of 100 pounds for any slave found
on any British boat.


Slavery was completely outlawed in British colonies in 1833.


Importing slaves from Africa to the United States became illegal
under President Thomas Jefferson on March 2, 1807, but it was not
until 1865, during the US Civil War, that slavery was abolished.

