

Australian detainee David Hicks, the first suspect to be tried at
a new US military tribunal against "enemy combatants," deferred
entering a plea on Monday as he was formally charged with
supporting terrorism.


More than five years since he was captured in Afghanistan, Hicks,
31, appeared at a hearing at the remote Guantanamo Bay US base in
Cuba under tight security and chose to postpone entering a plea
to the charge against him.


Hicks is the first "war on terror" detainee at the US-run prison
to be tried under a controversial new law that revived the
tribunals after the US Supreme Court threw out the previous
system created by an order from President George W. Bush.


He arrived in the chamber dressed in khaki prison garb and flip-
flop sandals with chest-length hair but clean-shaven, escorted by
two uniformed, unarmed soldiers who allowed him to sit without
shackles or handcuffs.


His decision to delay entering a plea to a charge of lending
"material support to terrorism" to a later, undetermined date
keeps open the possibility he might accept a possible plea deal
that could get him out of Guantanamo.


But what was supposed to be a routine procedural hearing turned
into a tense exchange when the military judge, Colonel Ralph
Kohlmann, disqualified two civilian lawyers on the defense team.


The judge said US lawyer Joshua Dratel could only represent Hicks
in the tribunal if he signed an agreement setting out the rules
governing how the defense counsel could operate.


Dratel refused saying: "I can't sign a document that provides a
blank check that draws on my ethical obligations as a lawyer."


Dratel charged the tribunal system was making up rules as it went
along, comparing it to the previous military commissions that
were ruled illegal by the US Supreme Court in June.


"These are the same problems that plagued the last commissions,
that everything is ad-hoc," Dratel said.


A second civilian lawyer, Rebecca Snyder, was told by the judge
she would have to step aside, at least for the moment, until she
changed her reserve status in the military.


"I'm shocked because I just lost another lawyer," Hicks told the
judge.


A former horse trainer in the Australian outback and kangaroo
skinner, Hicks allegedly underwent training at an Al-Qaeda camp
in Kandahar, southern Afghanistan and volunteered to fight
alongside Taliban forces during the US-led invasion.


The charge sheet does not allege Hicks attacked a US target, but
says he conducted surveillance on the abandoned US embassy in
Kabul and met Osama bin Laden as well as accused "shoe bomber"
Richard Reid.


Previous charges of attempted murder, conspiracy and aiding the
enemy have been dropped, with defense lawyers saying the move
shows US authorities have a weak case.


Looking considerably heavier since his last apperance in public
more than two years ago, Hicks told the American judge he might
have difficulty understanding his Australian accent.


"If you don't understand what I say sometimes, it's my language,
it's Australian English, sir," he said.


Before the hearing, Hicks had a visit with his father and sister
-- his first contact with family since 2004 -- in a tearful
reunion that lasted more than two hours, said his father, Terry
Hicks.


"There were handshakes, hugs and tears," Terry Hicks told
reporters, saying his son had deteriorated during his detention.
"He looks bloody terrible."


Hicks, who sported a military-style haircut in photos from his
younger days, has grown his hair long so he could shield his eyes
at night to block out light in his cell and allow him to sleep,
his defense lawyers say.


Condemned by human rights groups as a legal blackhole, the
tribunals allow for hearsay, evidence obtained through "coercion"
and bar detainees from appealing their detention in US courts.


But Colonel Morris Davis, the chief prosecutor for the tribunals,
or commissions, has defended the legal framework as comparable to
international tribunals set up to try war crimes in former
Yugoslavia or Rwanda.


"I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of here at
Guantanamo Bay," Davis told reporters.

