

Democratic Republic of Congo President Joseph Kabila on Monday
defended the use of force to quash what he described as an armed
rebellion by militia loyal to former vice president Jean-Pierre
Bemba.


"Order had to be restored at any cost," Kabil said after deadly
clashes last week in the capital Kinshasa that left 155 dead and
150 seriously wounded, according to a new toll from aid agency
Caritas. The previous toll was for 120 dead.


In his first statement since the fighting, Kabila said that
Bemba's fighters had been intent on seizing control of the
capital, and that the dispute was military rather than political.


"You do not guarantee security through negotiation," he told
reporters, in an apparent response to calls from the United
Nations, the African Union and various countries for a dialogue
between the two sides.


About 2,000 troops had fought Bemba's 700 fighters in the Gombe
district of the capital on Thursday and Friday.


Bemba, who lost the presidential election in October to Kabila,
had refused to have his vice-presidential bodyguard integrated
into the regular army, arguing that his personal security could
not be guaranteed.


The former rebel leader took refuge in the South African embassy
in Kinshasa on Thursday.


Kabila accused Bemba of trying to put himself above the law. "It
was totally unacceptable ... and the law has put him in his
place," he added.


But he refused to say what would happen to his former vice-
president, saying that a "judicial procedure" had been launched.


The government on Friday said that Bemba was being charged with
high treason. Most of his fighters have fled or agreed to join
government forces, but 107 took refuge at the United Nations
mission here, the UN said.


Bemba for his part said he was prepared to go into exile if his
security could not be guaranteed by Kinshasa.


In an interview with the Paris daily Le Monde he accused Kabila
of wanting to "get rid" of him.


"We are at a turning point in our history, because if they
continue to decapitate the opposition, a new dictatorship will be
established," he said.


But Kabila denied any intention to make DR Congo a one-party
state.


"I would be the last person to violate the constitution. Setting
up a single party smacks of high treason," he said.


He reassured elected members of Bemba's opposition Movement for
the Liberation of Congo (MLC), some of whom claimed to have been
threatened.


"The constitution will be respected," Kabila said, referring to
guarantees of expression, assembly and demonstration. "The
deputies of the MLC can rest easy."


Kabila added, "I am the guarantor of the constitution. I must
ensure the security of 60 million Congolese."


"The government will now have to show it can be responsible," a
Western diplomat in Kinshasa said Sunday.


"If you are going to have a rule of law the opposition must be
allowed to exist without being threatened or fearing a witch-
hunt."


Kinshasa newspapers Monday welcomed the end of the conflict but
expressed worries about the future of democracy in DR Congo.

