

A landmark national survey of thousands of Indian children found
close to half were either economically, physically or sexually
abused, according to leaked results of the study.


The survey of almost 17,000 children and young adults marks the
first comprehensive study of child abuse in India, a child
welfare official said on Saturday, but would not comment on the
findings, which are not public yet.


However, national news magazine Outlook which obtained the study
reported it found "close to 50 percent of the respondents spoken
to have suffered some form of abuse."


"Twenty-five percent of the children have suffered sexual abuse.
In more than 30 percent of the cases, relatives of the child are
involved," the magazine said.


The same findings were reported in the Hindustan Times daily.


"It's the first study at the national level we have done to
understand the extent and magnitude of child abuse," said
Loveleen Kacker, an official at India's Department of Women and
Child Development.


Forty percent of the children nationwide in the study had been
beaten, the media reports said.


The beating figures were even more grim among children in the
capital New Delhi.


"Nearly 71 percent have been physically beaten by persons in
position of authority," the Outlook report said.


"In more than 56 percent of the cases (in New Delhi), the beating
resulted in bleeding," it said.


The study said 60 percent of those children surveyed had suffered
economic abuse which includes forced labour.


The government plans to release the study, conducted by the
Indian nonprofit Prayas and backed by the United Nation's child
welfare agency UNICEF and Save the Children Fund, at the end of
March.


The study, which spoke to children chosen at random who were on
the street, at jobs, in schools, in institutions and living at
home, will shed much-needed light on the nature of child abuse in
India, the project's leader told AFP.


"The numbers indicated in the National Crime Records Bureau,
these numbers are actually no indication of the actual figures,"
said Amod K. Kanth, a senior police officer and co-founder of the
child welfare group Prayas.


Of India's more than a billion people, almost 40 percent are
under the age of 18.

