

World stock markets stumbled Friday after a one-day rebound, with
Wall Street shares opening lower on inflation data that was
nonetheless seen as helping curb losses in Europe.


Asian exchanges earlier in the day ended the week with mixed
fortunes, with losses recorded in Tokyo and Shanghai while
markets in Hong Kong, Seoul and Kuala Lumpur were nearly flat.


In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Averag was down 0.37
percent at 12,115.14 at mid-day and the tech-dominated Nasdaq had
shed 0.38 percent to reach 2,369.62 points.


Analysts said the latest inflation reading would likely cement a
decision next week by the US Federal Reserve to keep US interest
rates on hold at 5.25 percent. The Fed, which has cited inflation
as one of its key concerns, meets Tuesday and Wednesday to mull
US rates.


The Labor Department said Friday that US consumer prices rose 0.4
percent in February, stronger than the 0.3 percent rise widely
expected by Wall Street.


The core inflation reading, which strips out volatile food and
energy costs, rose 0.2 percent and was in line with forecasts.


"The Fed is not out of the woods with respect to inflation, so
despite slowing growth, expect another hold from policymakers
next week," Wachovia economists said in a note to investors.


"The Fed anticipates a reduction of inflation and over time we
agree. The problem is that the decline is not fast enough to give
the Fed maneuvering room at present," agreed Stephen Gallagher,
an economist at Societe Generale.


Separately, the Fed reported that US industrial production
rebounded by a much stronger-than-expected 1.0 percent in
February after falling in the prior month.


In Europe the inflation and industrial production readings were
viewed positively and helped to pare losses.


The London FTSE 100 index shed 0.04 percent to close at 6,130.6
while in Paris the CAC 40 fell 0.14 percent to 5,382.16. In
Frankfurt the Dax slipped 0.07 percent to finish at 6,580.78
points.


Elsewhere in Europe there were declines of 0.12 percent in Milan,
0.26 percent in Amsterdam and 0.13 percent in Brussels.


Prices edged up 0.12 percent in Zurich and 0.27 percent in
Madrid.


A rout on global equity markets earlier this week, sparked by
fears of a meltdown in the US housing market, was checked
Thursday with solid share price gains in the United States,
Europe and Asia.


Analysts said it was no surprise markets were taking a breather
on Friday after the recent large swings, particularly ahead of
the weekend.


In addition remarks from Alan Greenspan caused jitters after the
former Fede chief told a conference that US home loan problems
could spill over into the wider economy, although there was no
evidence yet of such a trend.


With a long US property boom now fading into memory, mortgage
delinquencies and defaults are on the rise, especially at the
lower or "sub-prime" level among people with poor credit scores
and those who borrowed beyond their means.


"Sentiment was dampened by uncertainties about the US economic
situation," added Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities
in Tokyo, where the Nikkei-225 index ended down 0.69 percent on
Friday.


China's shares prices closed down 0.72 percent on Friday.


Elsewhere in Asia Sydney ended 0.29 percent lower and Singapore
was down 0.86 percent, while Hong Kong, Seoul and Kuala Lumpur
were more or less stable.


But Taipei added 0.31 percent, Jakarta was up 0.40 percent and
Manila put on 0.61 percent.


"The volatility of the past week provides a reminder that the
share market correction is not necessarily over and that the US
economy is the real issue, not the Chinese share market," said
AMP Capital Investor strategist Shane Oliver in Sydney.

