

Former heavyweight world champion Evander Holyfield finds himself
on the defensive heading into his latest comeback bout Saturday
in Corpus Christi, Texas.


Holyfield, 44, will fight his third bout in seven months against
fellow American Vinny Maddalone.


But unfortunately for Holyfield the pre-fight buzz has focused
not on his desire to claim the heavyweight crown for a fifth
time, but on a published report linking him to a steroids
investigation.


"I am disturbed about potential damage to my hard-won reputation
as a result of allegations in recent news reports concerning
performance-enhancing substances," Holyfield said in a statement.


Federal agents raided pharmacies in Florida and Alabama, with
authorities telling the Times-Union newspaper of Albany, New
York, that Holyfield used the name "Evan Fields" when placing
orders from a Mobile, Alabama, pharmacy.


"While I'm fairly certain I know how my name came up, I don't
want to say anything more until I have all the facts, which I
hope is just a matter of a few weeks," Holyfield said. "At that
time I'll release everything I know, no holds barred, and will be
more than happy to respond to questions."


Holyfield, whose victims list from glory days includes Mike Tyson
and George Foreman, was idled for nearly two years after New York
officials questioned his health following a 12-round decision
loss to Larry Donald.


The New York State Athletic Commission lifted a medical ban so he
could fight in other states, and his last two bouts have been in
Texas.


Holyfield, 40-8 with two drawn and 26 knockouts, beat Jeremy
Bates last August and Fres Oquendo last November.


Maddalone, who brings a record of 27-3 with 19 wins inside the
distance to the bout, had a no decision in his last fight against
Julius Long on December 15.


Prior to that, he had won six of seven fights, including five
knockouts. Maddalone hopes a win against Holyfield will lead to a
title shot.


"That's all I'm looking at," Madalone said. "Since I first put
the gloves on, this is all I've dreamed of. I definitely respect
Evander as a fighter, but once the bell rings, it's all
business."


Holyfield lost three fights in a row ending with the 2004 Donald
defeat, the end of a longer run where he went 2-5 with two drawn
starting with a controversial draw with Britain's Lennox Lewis in
1999.


Lewis has said has no plans to come out of retirement, ending any
chance for Holyfield to avenge a 1999 rematch loss that cost him
an undisputed crown.


That leaves as Holyfield's targets the three highly regarded
world heavyweight champions - unbeaten Russian giant Nikolay
Valuev (46-0 with 34 knockouts), Kazak-born Oleg Maskaev (34-5
with 26 knockouts) and Ukranian Wladimir Klitschko (48-3 with 43
knockouts).


Holyfield will turn 45 in October, the same age as Foreman was
when he stopped Michael Moorer to regain the heavyweight title.

