

American swimming superstar Michael Phelps, who won six gold
medals at the Athens Olympics, warned his rivals Saturday he is
ready to raise the bar even further.


The 21-year-old improved his own world record in the men's 200m
butterfly last month and said he is driven by wanting to be
remembered as one of the best swimmers ever seen.


"Everything so far has been going really well. I need to put some
pieces together and hopefully I will have a great championship,"
he said at the US team training base in Geelong, just outside
Melbourne.


"I'm going to take one race at a time and then move on to the
next. Time will tell how many medals I can get, but I just want
to get in the water and race.


"Every event I'd like to be the best in the world and I'd like to
go down as one of the best ever."


Asked what continued to motive him, Phelps replied: "Raising the
bar in American swimming, that's been my goal since I turned
professional."


Phelps, who is expected to aim for Mark Spitz's Olympic record of
seven gold medals next year at Beijing, is down to race the 200m
freestyle, 100 and 200 butterfly, 200 and 400 individual medley
and 4x200 free relay here.


He said being in Australia was also a motivating factor, pointing
to the traditional rivalry between the two swimming powerhouses.


"It's always big. Coming into Australia where swimming is so big
it's always great, we have a good rivalry," said Phelps, who also
holds world records in the 200m and 400m individual medleys.


"You can always count on them to put up a good team, with or
without (Ian) Thorpe, step up on the blocks and give it
everything they've got."


Some of the Aussies have been talking tough in the lead-up to the
worlds with Australian sprinter Eamon Sullivan joining the South
Africans this week in declaring he would love to spank the
powerful US men's 4x100m relay.


The USA have a proud tradition in relays and reclaimed the 4x100m
world record at last year's Pan Pacs by chopping nearly three-
quarters of a second off the old mark.


Phelps said such talk only served to fire up the US team.


"When someone does say something it motivates us," he said.


"It is the same thing leading into (the) 2003 (Barcelona world
championships) when a lot of people said I was unproven on
international soil, it just fuels the fire.


"It is something that is going to help us swim even faster, we
have four guys that we are going to put together and we are going
to swim as fast as we can."


Phelps's coach Bob Bowman is convinced his charge will produce an
explosive performance in Melbourne as a result of a new strength
training programme.


"It seems to be really paying dividends because he hasn't really
lost any endurance but he's gained strength and speed which I
think will help move him to the next level," Bowman told
reporters.


The US has a strong team in Melbourne. Apart from Phelps, Aaron
Peirsol is a three-time Olympic gold medallist and world record
holder and Natalie Coughlin won five medals in Athens.

