

Aston Villa manager Martin O'Neill is convinced Liverpool will
mount a serious title assault next season - despite Rafa
Benitez's concerns over his spending budget at Anfield this
summer.


Benitez is growing increasingly frustrated at the lack of
communication with American owners Tom Hicks and George Gillet
regarding the extent of funds available to him to strengthen his
squad for next season.


He has only met the American owners once since they took control
at Anfield and has still been given no clear indication of how
heavily they are prepared to back him in the transfer market,
which has left him with fears that Chelsea, Arsenal and
Manchester United will all be stealing a march on him on summer
targets.


But O'Neill, who is desperate to break into the chase for
Champions League places next season, believes Benitez does not
have to worry about money, because he already has a strong enough
squad to mount a concerted challenge next season.


"Manchester United and Chelsea's points ratio this season is
fantastic and I know that people are looking at Liverpool and
saying that they are as far away as ever," O'Neill said ahead of
Liverpool's visit to Villa Park on Sunday.


"But don't forget they have made it to the last eight of the
Champions League. What do people want?


"Liverpool are trailing behind in the Premiership but they are
very capable of winning the Champions League.


"That is why I think Liverpool start again next season with more
of a chance of winning the title. If they can sort their away
form out quickly I think they will be up there.


"They are not as far away from winning the Championship as people
think. All the people they have brought in will be 12 months more
experience and I think they will go a lot closer."


Benitez insists his future remains at Liverpool despite growing
speculation that Real Madrid are stepping up their efforts to
lure him back to Spain.


According to reports from Spain, Benitez's name is on a short
list along with Chelsea's Jose Mourinho to replace Fabio Capello,
whose reign at the Bernabeu is under serious threat after an
unconvincing season.


"I'm really happy at Liverpool," said Benitez, whose side are
looking to bounce back from back-to-back home defeats.


"I want us to win at Aston Villa, I want us to win against PSV
Eindhoven in the quater-finals of the Champions League and I
think I will be here for a long time.


"I think the team I have at Liverpool can go forward and make
even more progress. I'm sure they will do that."


Meanwhile, Benitez insists Harry Kewell still has a future at
Liverpool as Anfield's forgotten man nears a return to action.


Kewell's four-year career at the club has been littered by
injuries but the Australian international could be available for
Arsenal's visit at the end of the month.


"Harry is close to returning," said Benitez, who has been without
the player all season. "He is working hard to get fit and get
back in the team."


Liverpool have not lost at Villa Park for nine years and
O'Neill's side have won just two games in their last 18, but the
Irishman is convinced he is not too far away from solving his
problems.


"When you are not winning games you think of everything. When
people tell me that I have only won two games in 18 I feel like
going and putting my head under a tap," said O'Neill.


"I know what the players can and cannot do and eventually it is
up to me to start winning some games.


"I think we are improving as a team but it has not actually shown
in results. I feel more confident about the team at this moment
than I did in October. Whether that is misplaced or not I will
have to examine myself."

