

Relatives of 75 victims of a 2005 Indonesian air disaster are
suing aircraft manufacturer Boeing in a US court, a lawyer said
Saturday.


A Boeing 737-200 operated by privately-owned Mandala Airlines
ploughed into houses and burst into flames shortly after it took
off from Medan airport on the island of Sumatra on September 5,
2005.


The crash killed 147 passengers including persons on the ground.


Lawyer David Abraham said a case had been filed in a court in
Illinois state naming Boeing and industrial conglomerate United
Technologies Corp, which produces aircraft engines and aviation
systems, as defendants.


"The plane fault was caused by the producer's negligence, in this
case Boeing or United Technologies as the producer of the Boeing
737's machines," legal counselor David Abraham told AFP.


"We represent 75 victims of the Mandala crash. A mediation court
is scheduled for April 26. If an agreement is not met then, we
will proceed to the case trial," said Abraham.


"We do not specify the amount of the loss, it will later be
determined by the jury based on (the development of) the case,"
he said.


Abraham said his firm had also been asked by three relatives of
victims of the recent Garuda Indonesia crash to represent them in
a separate case and had written consent from relatives to
represent 11 victims of an Adam Air plane which crashed on New
Year's Day.


"I met with representatives of 11 Adam Air victims and explained
their rights," he said.


Abraham said he suspected the cause of the Adam Air crash was
similar to that of a Silk Air plane in December 1997.


"It (the Silk Air crash) was caused by the plane's faulty rudder
system, that is why in the Adam Air case we are planning to sue
Boeing and Parker Hannifin as manufacturer of the primary control
unit," he said.


The Adam Air Boeing 737-400 plunged into the sea off Sulawesi
island, killing all 102 people on board. Its wreckage and black
box flight recorders have not been recovered from the sea bed.


A Garuda Indonesia Boeing 737 airliner crash-landed this month in
the city of Yogyakarta and burst into flames, killing 21 people.


Indonesia's new air transport chief said earlier this week he
could shut down some domestic airlines following the latest
disaster.


Confidence in air travel, which helps to bind the archipelago
nation of 17,000 islands, has been shaken by the deadly crashes
and other incidents.

