

Kilmarnock striker Colin Nish may be a lifelong Hibernian fan but
on Sunday he wants to shoot down his boyhood heroes in the
Scottish League Cup final.


The 26-year-old grew up supporting the Easter Road club and was
at Hampden as a fan last season to witness their 4-0 hammering at
the hands of Edinburgh rivals Hearts in the semi-final of the
Scottish Cup.


Nish also remembers cheering on the Hibees as a boy when they
last lifted a trophy - the League Cup in 1991.


However on Sunday he will be completely focused on trying to help
Killie win this competition for the first time - even if that may
not please his whole family.


Nish said: "I was a Hibs fan as a boy and my entire family
support them. I didn't go to the final in 1991 but I saw it on
television. When I get the chance to watch them I still do but
you have to support the team you play for.


"My dad Adam will be wanting Kilmarnock to win and my big brother
Graeme will probably by 50/50.


"But I don't think it matters who we are playing in a final. You
just have to treat it like any other game and we are confident if
we play well we can win the Cup."


Killie manager Jim Jefferies will be relieved that goalkeeper
Alan Combe has shaking off a calf injury and is fit to play,
although defender Grant Murray is still struggling with a
hamstring injury.


Hibs boss John Collins, meanwhile, is confident his side will
handle the pressure of a Hampden final and go one better than
they did in this competition three years ago.


In 2004 the Easter Road side, managed by Bobby Williamson at the
time, were widely expected to lift the trophy by defeating
Livingston - who were on the brink of going into administration -
but instead lost 2-0.


Hibs are slight favourites for Sunday's game but Collins believes
his side will not freeze again.


He said: "We will only know for sure on Sunday but from what I've
seen since I joined the club four-and-a-half months ago this
group of players rise to the big occasion.


"This is the biggest and most important game since I arrived and
I'm confident the players will thrive on the big pitch in front
of the big crowd.


"Players need to have a mental toughness and good self belief if
they are to avoid freezing.


"We are going about our preparations as if this was any other
game. We've kept it nice and calm and hopefully that will help."


Under Collins predecessor, Tony Mowbray, Hibs played an
attractive brand of attacking football with a high tempo and this
style has been continued under the current manager.


And the former Celtic and Monaco player is confident that if Hibs
can play this type of football on Sunday they can lift the first
silverware of the Scottish season.


Collins said: "All I can ask of the players is they give me
everything and do the same things we ask them to do every week.


"It's about getting the ball down and passing it. I want the
players to want to be on the ball and play with no fear and for
the team.


"If they do all that against Kilmarnock then there's every chance
we will win the Cup."


Hibs will be without New Zealand striker Chris Killen, who is out
long-term with an Achilles injury but Northern Ireland
international Ivan Sproule has recovered from a groin strain.


Scottish League Cup final (1500 GMT)


Hibernian v Kilmarnock

