

Three New York police officers involved in the controversial
shooting death of an unarmed black man last year have been
indicted by a grand jury, a police spokesman said Friday.


The three were among five officers involved in the shooting of
Sean Bell, 23, who was gunned down in a hail of bullets as he was
leaving a nightclub in the borough of Queens just hours before he
was due to get married in November.


"This afternoon we heard from the district attorney's office and
we are here to confirm that three of the officers involved...
have been indicted," said Michael Palladino, head of the
Detectives Endowment Association.


"I am not aware of the charges. I have heard a lot of
speculation, however the district attorney's office has not
notified us of the exact charges. We will find that out on
Monday," he told reporters.


Undercover police who had been staking out the Queens nightclub
fired some 50 shots at Bell and two friends, killing the
bridegroom and wounding the two others, in circumstances that
remain unclear.


Investigations have hinged on conflicting reports over whether
there may have been a fourth man armed with a gun who later fled
the scene.


The shooting triggered protests in New York, outrage from the
black community and calls for the officers involved to be face
criminal charges.


Police were put on standby this week fearing a decision by the
grand jury not to indict any of the officers would have led to
disturbances.


Palladino criticized the decision to indict the officers, saying
their actions should not be subject to criminal charges.


"I firmly disagree with the decision to indict these officers. I
do not think that the reaction of the officers rises to the level
of criminality.


"I think that the message being sent by the indictments will have
a chilling effect not only on New York City detectives and New
York City police but on law enforcement throughout the country,"
he said.


"They took the action they took in good faith," he added. "The
message that's being sent now is that even though you're acting
in good faith ... there is no margin for error."

