

The US government Friday all but ruled out the chances of a free-
trade deal with Malaysia before a crucial deadline expires in two
weeks.


Steve Norton, a spokesman for US Trade Representative Susan
Schwab, said the Malaysian cabinet remained locked in debate
about crucial provisions of the deal including government
procurement rules.


After the last round of talks in February, Malaysia had informed
the United States that it needed more time to develop a political
consensus in favour of the ambitious pact, he told AFP.


"That process is continuing in the Malaysian cabinet. But I think
it's clear at this point that getting the free trade agreement
done under current TPA is improbable," Norton said.


The timetable is tightening because US President George W. Bush
loses his Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), which allows deals to
be fast-tracked through the Democratic-led Congress, on July 1.


The FTA negotiations need to be wrapped up by the end of March to
give Congress the requisite time of three months to consider the
deal. With that deadline just two weeks away, time has virtually
run out, Norton conceded.


"Having said that, we're going to continue meeting and will
probably have further discussions in the next few weeks," the
spokesman added.


"You don't want to let negotiations that have been going on for
the best part of a year to just disappear."


The two countries have held five rounds of talks but negotiations
have bogged down over 58 unresolved issues, and no further rounds
have been scheduled between the United States and its 10th
largest trading partner.


Among sore points for US trade negotiators are Malaysia's
positive discrimination policies for its majority-ethnic Malay
community. The policies give preferential treatment to Malay-run
companies in government contracts.


Malaysian farmers, activists and opposition parties have been
demanding a halt to the talks, arguing an FTA would damage
livelihoods.


"The government fully understands the thinking and concerns of
the people on the matter," Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah
Ahmad Badawi said after an inconclusive cabinet meeting on March
7.


"I would like to assure that the nation's interest will always be
safeguarded and would not be sacrificed in any way," he said,
according to the New Straits Times newspaper.


Malaysia's trade minister Rafidah Aziz insisted after the
February round the talks would continue, and has said both
parties are trying to resolve outstanding obstacles informally.


But she said "no-go" issues, such as the positive discrimination
regime, would be excluded from any future round of negotiations.

