

Herschelle Gibbs smashed his way into the record books as the
World Cup witnessed another heayweight nation deliver a brutal
knockout blow to a hapless contender on Friday.


Gibbs became the first man to hit six sixes in an over in a one-
day international as the Netherlands were bludgeoned into a
humiliating 221-run defeat at the hands of world number one South
Africa in St Kitts.


South Africa piled up 353-3 off just 40 overs in a rain-
restricted Group A tie with Jacques Kallis making an unbeaten 128
and Mark Boucher finishing not out on 75.


Boucher joined Gibbs, who was eventually out for 72, in the
record books by making the fastest World Cup half-century
reaching the mark in just 21 balls, two quicker than the previous
best of Brian Lara.


Skipper Graeme Smith contributed 67 before the Dutch crawled to
132-9 in their 40 overs.


"It's up there with the best things I've done," said Gibbs.


"I never thought about getting six in a row, but if it's your
day, it's your day."


It was the third embarrassing result of the first week of the
World Cup following Sri Lanka's 245-run win over Bermuda and
defending champions Australia's 203-run triumph against Scotland.


Meanwhile, New Zealand beat England by six wickets in a crucial
Group C clash at St Lucia in a game featuring the two probable
qualifiers from that section for the second round Super Eights.


The Black Caps' win also means they will carry two extra points
into the next round should England, as expected, edge Kenya and
Canada to second spot.


Chasing 210 for victory, New Zealand finished on 210 for four
with nine overs to spare after having recovered from 19 for three
in five overs.


They were still in trouble at 72 for four before an unbeaten
stand of 138 between all-rounders Scott Styris (87 not out) and
Jacob Oram (63 not out) saw them home.


Earlier, Kevin Pietersen top-scored for England with 60 but
England were undone by a middle order collapse which saw them
slump from 133-3 to 138-7.


"It's not the ideal start but we will have to pick ourselves up
in time to face Canada on Sunday," said England skipper Michael
Vaughan.


New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming praised his team.


"It was a crucial game and both teams were battling for the
points," said Fleming.


"Important players put their hands up at the right time - Shane
Bond and then Styris and Oram. It's a big win and we're on the
board."


Bangladesh, who face India in their first game on Saturday, were
in mourning after Test player Manjarul Islam Rana and fellow
cricketer Sajedul Islam Shetu were killed in a road accident.


Manjarul and Sajedul died when the motorcycle on which they were
travelling collided with a bus in the southwestern Bangladesh
city of Khulna.


"I am deeply shocked. He was our team-mate and we played together
for a long time," said Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar of
Manjarul who played six Tests and 25 one-day internationals but
missed out on the World Cup squad.


Left-arm spinner Manjarul, who was just 22, made his ODI debut in
November 2003 at the age of 19 and took the wicket of England
skipper Vaughan with his third ball.


Saturday's other World Cup match sees Pakistan take on Ireland
with the Irish buoyed by their last-ball tie with Zimbabwe in
their opening game and determined to celebrate St Patrick's Day
in style.

