

Dutch captain Luuk van Troost wanted to make history against
South Africa and he got his wish.


However, his hapless, hopeless team will be remembered as having
suffered the third heaviest World Cup defeat, having conceded the
most sixes in an innings and having played their part in
accommodating the fastest tournament half- century ever made.


If that wasn't enough history for one day, his leg-break bowler
Daan van Bunge then did his bit by allowing South Africa's
Herschelle Gibbs to become the first man ever to hit six sixes in
an over in an international game.


"Before the game we said let's make history by beating South
Africa. Well, we made history but in an another way," admitted
van Troost, whose team was dismissed for 131 to lose by 221 runs.


South Africa piled up 353-3 in a game reduced to 40 overs-a-side
after overnight rain had delayed the start of the Group A
mismatch at Warner Park.


Jacques Kallis smashed an unbeaten 128, Mark Boucher hit a
21-ball fifty while Gibbs boasted a 40-ball 72.


Even more embarrassing for the World Cup organisers was the fact
that three of the heaviest defeats in tournament history have
come in the last three days with Bermuda losing by 243 runs to
Sri Lanka and Scotland being routed by 203 runs by defending
champions Australia.


The Aussies remain the undisputed demolition kings having beaten
Namibia at the last World Cup in 2003 by 256 runs.


The 31-year-old Gibbs is only the third man in the game's history
to hit six sixes in an over.


West Indian great Sir Gary Sobers was the first to reach the
landmark playing for Nottinghamshire against Glamorgan at Swansea
in 1968 with Malcolm Nash the bowler taking the punishment.


Former India all-rounder Ravi Shastri then equalled the feat
against Raj Tilak for Bombay against Baroda in 1984.


Hovever, both those achievements came in first-class matches, not
international one-dayers.


Van Troost admitted it was embarrassing being captain as Gibbs
unleashed all of his firepower.


"What can you say? I told Daan after the third ball, "try to bowl
a quicker one" and he said, "I just did."


"There were a few good balls in it and a few shit balls. It's
terrible to be a captain in that situation. The last couple of
overs I didn't know where to put my players any more, or where to
bowl, I thought I'll take the last over, someone's got to do it.
Nightmare for a captain."


In all South Africa hit 18 sixes, another record.


When asked how van Bunge reacted in the dressing room, van Troost
replied: "He had some flashbacks. He started laughing as he was
sitting in the dressing-room. Serious!


"What can we say? It's a nightmare. We can hide in our rooms or
take the positives out of it, and show against Australia (their
next opponents on Sunday) that we can play better than today,"
said van Troost.


"They totally outplayed us, I was quite happy with the start
actually (when they removed opener AB de Villiers for nought),
but after that they were cruising. After we came off everyone was
very negative."

