

Opposition groups in Zimbabwe's second city of Bulawayo, which
has been traditionally hostile to Robert Mugabe, have vowed to
play their part in the campaign to topple the veteran president.


While there have been a handful of arrests, Bulawayo has so far
escaped the unrest of the capital Harare where Movement for
Democratic Change leader Morgan Tsvangirai and dozens of his
cohorts were arrested and then beaten last weekend.


But the tensions are palpable and some residents say it is only a
matter of time before things boil over.


Most of Bulawayo's citizens comes from the minority Ndebele
population, thousands of whom were killed in clashes in the early
1980s with members of the security forces controlled by Mugabe
who is from the larger Shona grouping.


The MDC has traditionally trounced Mugabe's ZANU-PF party in
elections and the president has long been wary of showing his
face here.


While MDC activists here are keeping their cards close to their
chest about how they plan to react to the unravelling situation
for fear of alerting the security services, they insist that they
will not sit idly by.


"We are planning to act against the regime," said the MDC's
Bulawayo spokesperson, Felix Mafa.


"If our leadership is brutalised, there is nothing to stop us
from fighting back. Democracy has been galvanised by what
happened on Sunday."


The MDC has been hit by divisions with many of its MPs splitting
from Tsvangirai in late 2005 and instead joining a rival faction
led by firebrand former student leader Arthur Mutambara.


However, a spokesman for Mutambara's faction in the southern
city, Farai Sibandi, said that his group was also planning
"activities to show solidarity with our leaders" while again
remaining coy about details.


Many residents of Bulawayo are wary of speaking publicly but the
feelings of resentment towards Mugabe are much stronger in a city
where food shortages markedly have been more acute than in
Harare.


"Things might appear normal here in Bulawayo, but they are not,"
said Bulawayo resident Kudzai Kwangwari.


"It's now a matter of time. There are things that neither the
government nor the opposition has control over that are bothering
us here -- shortages of mealie- meal for instance.


"We are bottling up our frustrations but soon we will burst," he
added.


Sithabile Bhebhe, a mother of two, says she is eager to take to
the streets for the sake of her children.


She says taking part in the proposed action is the only way she
can help find a solution to the problems that Zimbabweans are
facing.


"Yes we will be beaten, but that has to happen if we are going to
smoothen everything up for everybody in this country," she said.


"We are suffering in this country and we cannot carry on this
way," she added.

