

Marco Antonio Barrera puts his World Boxing Council super
featherweight title on the line against Juan Manuel Marquez
Saturday in a bout Marquez says he has been looking forward to
for years.


The match-up between the two Mexicans seems a natural, but for
some reason Barrera was always looking elsewhere.


"This is a fight that I was supposed to have a long time ago,"
said Marquez, who took the World Boxing Association and
International Boxing Federation featherweight titles from Derrick
Gainer in 2003. The following year he survived three first-round
knockdowns to earn a draw with Manny Pacquiao.


But always, Marquez said, he was looking toward Barrera.


"I wanted this fight over four or five years ago," he said. "It's
happening now. They gave me the opportunity and I want to take
advantage of that."


Barrera says he just hasn't had Marquez on his radar.


Since 2000, he has battled Erik Morales three times, stopped
Paulie Ayala, won decisions over Johnny Tapia and Naseem Hamed
and twice beaten Rocky Juarez.


He also has been stopped by Pacquiao, and took the bout with
Marquez when negotiations for a Pacquaio rematch broke down.


"We started paying attention to Juan Manuel when the fight was
signed," said Barrera, who brings a record of 64-4 with 42
knockouts to his fifth defence of the title. "He's a top-level
fighter, but it was never mentioned to me before."


Marquez, who boasts a record of 46-3-1 with 35 wins inside the
distance, is moving up from 126 to 130 pounds to challenge
Barrera.


Perhaps also at stake is a rematch with Pacquiao, a man both
Mexican fighters would love to face again. Neither, however, can
afford to look past Saturday.


"I want to be super featherweight champion," Marquez said. "I am
very motivated, ready and I have enormous determination to win.


"You have to take every fight seriously. I don't think Barrera is
thinking about losing. Me either."


Barrera said he was confident of emerging triumphant on Saturday.


"I know Juan Manuel, and I know that he will be very well
prepared, but I hve more experience and I hve also been training
very well," Barrera said.

