

The major US share indexes ended lower Friday after a stronger-
than-expected snapshot on inflation renewed economic concerns
days before the US Federal Reserve meets to mull US interest
rates.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 49.27 points (0.41
percent) at at 12,110.41 while the Nasdaq composite shed a lesser
6.04 points (0.25 percent) to 2,372.66.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 lost 5.33 points (0.38
percent) to end at 1,386.95.


Lingering concerns about the health of the country's vast
mortgage market, especially loans made to people with poor credit
histories, also continued to overshadow the market, traders said.


Analysts said the latest inflation reading would likely cement a
decision next week by the Fed to keep US interest rates on hold
at 5.25 percent. The Fed, which has cited inflation as one of its
key worries, meets Tuesday and Wednesday to mull US rates.


The Labor Department said Friday that US consumer prices rose 0.4
percent in February, stronger than the 0.3 percent rise widely
expected by Wall Street.


The core inflation reading, which strips out volatile food and
energy costs, rose 0.2 percent and was in line with forecasts.


"Prices moderated for vehicles and personal electronics, but most
other categories showed gains," Wachovia economists said in a
note to investors.


"The Fed is not out of the woods with respect to inflation, so
despite slowing growth, expect another hold from policymakers
next week," the economists added.


"Investors will probably hold back both buying and selling until
the Fed delivers its policy statement next Wednesday afternoon,"
said Frederic Dickson, an analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co.


"Few expect the Fed to change their current interest rate
policy," Dickson said.


Separately, a Fed survey showed US industrial production
rebounded by a much stronger-than-expected 1.0 percent in
February after falling in the prior month.


Most economists had been expecting the central bank's monthly
snapshot of the nation's industrial sector, measuring the output
of US factories, mines and utilities, to show a rise of just 0.3
percent.


The jump in industrial output across the United States, the
strongest gain since November 2005, was largely attributed to a
cranking up of gas and electricity output from the nation's
utilities amid cold winter temperatures.


On the stock front, mortgage groups remained under the microscope
amid ongoing concerns about loans to so-called "subprime"
borrowers, or people who have troubled credit histories.


Countrywide's stock closed down 51 cents at 34.96 dollars while
Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., ended up a strong 1.47
dollars at 10.90 dollars after announcing it had reached a deal
to sell 2.7 billion dollars of its loan portfolio.


Drug distributor Caremark Rx meanwhile announced its shareholders
had approved a 26.5-billion-dollar merger with the CVS retail
pharmacy group after fending off a rival takeover bid from
Express Scripts.


Tennessee-based Caremark's shares finished down 37 cents at 62.38
dollars while CVS, which welcomed the shareholder approval,
closed 40 cents lower at 32.94 dollars.


Discount air carrier JetBlue's stock ended down 21 cents at 11.69
dollars after announcing possible flight delays across the
country amid harsh weather forecasts predicting snow flurries in
some regions.


Bond prices fell as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.545 percent from 4.534 percent Thursday and that
on the 30-year bond rose slightly to 4.695 percent from 4.692
percent.


Bond prices and yields move in opposing directions.

