

The Indian air force Saturday resumed a search for three European
skiers and the pilot of their helicopter missing in Indian
Kashmir, officials said.


The French-piloted chopper that was carrying the trio, among them
a Swiss pioneer of "extreme skiing", vanished on Friday in the
northeastern mountains of Sonamarg, about 100 kilometers (60
miles) from summer capital Srinagar.


"The Indian airforce has resumed searches to locate the missing
helicopter and the foreigners," Indian army spokesman A.K. Mathur
told AFP.


He said aerial searches, suspended Friday evening due to fading
light, were resumed around 6:30 am (0100 GMT) Saturday.


"So far we have not been able to trace anything," he said.


A senior police official Farooq Ahmed said foot patrols have also
set out to search for the missing.


The heliski trip was led by Sylvain Saudan, a 71-year-old Swiss
national who is recognised as a veteran of extreme skiing in
Europe and the Himalayas.


He has organised paid heliski trips to the Himalayan region for
the past two decades, and has survived two helicopter crashes in
the Sonamarg area, most recently in 2000.


The other two skiers were identified by officials as Diane
Schlegal, aged 49 and a Swiss national, and Gerard Escoubas, a 38
-year-old Frenchman. The pilot of the missing Lama helicopter is
Lucien Brassier, also from France.


Saudan's trips involved departing from Srinagar in the morning,
returning by midday for refueling before making another trip to
the mountains.


Employees at Srinagar's Grand Palace hotel informed the police
when the chopper did not return for the midday fuel stop.


Heliskiing involves using a helicopter to reach isolated peaks
for challenging off-piste descents away from the crowds of
established, lift-served resorts.


Hundreds of Western skiers and snowboarders converge on Indian
Kashmir each year, even though the region has been wracked by an
insurgency against Indian rule since 1989.


The area is reputed as having some of the most challenging
extreme and off-piste skiing in the world, accessible either by
helicopter or at the resort of Gulmarg -- situated a two-hour
drive from Srinagar.

