

Tensions between India and Australia have risen at the World Cup
after two Australian players revealed their anger towards Sunil
Gavaskar over his criticisms of their team's behaviour, reports
said here Saturday.


Former India captain Gavaskar hit a raw nerve here by linking the
death of former Test cricketer David Hookes, who died after he
was punched outside a Melbourne hotel, with the treatment the
Australians could expect if they behaved as boorishly in a bar as
he claimed they did on the field.


Batsman Brad Hodge, who was coached by Hookes in Victoria and is
a member of Australia's World Cup squad in the Caribbean, was
stony-faced when asked about Gavaskar's comments.


"Pretty disappointed. I'm disappointed about comments made about
my former coach David Hookes," Hodge told Saturday's The Age
newspaper.


"That's all I'm going to say about it."


The Age said the Australian players are anxious not to turn the
feud into a World Cup distraction, but have found it hard to
conceal their dismay, which has been conveyed to International
Cricket Council chief executive Malcolm Speed.


Australia and India are seeded to meet in a potentially volatile
Super Eight match in Antigua on March 31, a repeat of the 2003
World Cup final that has been given extra heat since Gavaskar
escalated his attack on Ricky Ponting's team.


Veteran paceman Glenn McGrath said Gavaskar's standing with
Australian cricket could be damaged and, although he was entitled
to his opinion about the team's conduct, the Hookes' analogy was
"crossing the line".


"It's very disrespectful. Sunny was an amazing cricketer, but I
think this time he's gone beyond," McGrath told a Sydney radio
station.


"The comments in themselves are very disappointing when he's
mentioning David Hookes and you really feel for Hookesy's family.


"With it being the World Cup I think Sunny sees Australia as the
main threat to beat India and he's trying to put us off our
game."


McGrath said Australia's on-field behaviour was no worse than any
other sides.


"It's fine to say that but at the end of the day I think the
Indian team does it as well as every other team."


The Age cricket columnist Greg Baum said that after 20 years of
reaching out in cricket, Australia and India seem as
philosophically remote from one another as ever and perhaps the
gap can never be bridged.


"As ever in slanging matches, no one wins. Gavaskar's lament
about Australia is an old one. Doubtlessly, it is heartfelt, for
he was a stickler for the game's proprieties," Baum wrote.


"Still, his attack is problematic. Gavaskar is chairman of the
ICC's cricket committee. Perception matters; Australia will
remain suspicious that one powerful voice at the ICC is
intractably against it.


"Gavaskar invoked the late Hookes' name needlessly, carelessly
and tactlessly. It did not belong in this dialogue."

