

An Indian Muslim group has offered a 500,000 rupee (11,319
dollar) bounty for the beheading of controversial Bangladeshi
author Taslima Nasreen.


The president of the All India Ibtehad Council, Taqi Raza Khan,
said on Friday he had declared the reward for anyone who carried
out the "quatal" or "extermination" of the "notorious woman."


"Taslima has put Muslims to shame in her writing. She should be
killed and beheaded and anyone who does this will get a reward
from the council," he said in a statement received in Lucknow,
capital of northern Uttar Pradesh state.


The council, based in the Uttar Pradesh town of Bareilly, is a
splinter group of the influential All India Muslim Personal Law
Board.


Khan said the only way the bounty would be lifted was if Nasreen
"apologises, burns her books and leaves."


The bounty was not a fatwa as Khan, while a cleric, is not senior
enough to issue Islamic decrees.


But it drew swift condemnation from one of south Asia's most
powerful Muslim seminaries.


The clergy of the Sunni seminary Dar-ul Uloom in Deoband in Uttar
Pradesh, a state with a large Muslim population, said the call to
behead Nasreen was "un- Islamic" and that clergy should not issue
such "fatwas."


"Unnecessary edicts increase friction in society and people of
other religions start treating Islam as a barbaric religion,"
Mufti Arif, who sits on the board of the fatwa committee of Dar-
ul Uloom, told AFP by telephone.


At the same time Arif backed Khan's call for 45-year-old
Nasreen's expulsion from India, where she is seeking permanent
residence or citizenship.


Nasreen has incensed conservative Muslims for writing a novel
"Lajja" or "Shame" depicting the life of a Hindu family facing
the ire of Muslims in Bangladesh. The book is banned in Muslim-
majority Bangladesh.


The author was forced to flee her homeland in 1994 after radical
Muslims decried her writings as blasphemous and demanded her
execution.


There was no immediate comment available from Nasreen, who is
also a doctor, who has lived in self-exile in Europe and the
United States but who has lately been living in India.

