

A 42-year-old British solicitor who was wrongly jailed for more
than three years over the deaths of her two baby sons was found
dead at her home on Friday, her family said.


Sally Clark was found guilty of murder in 1999 and jailed for
life but the Court of Appeal cleared her in January 2003 after
hearing that key medical evidence that could have cleared her was
not disclosed at her trial.


A statement released by the family solicitor said Clark "passed
away during the night," adding the case was "in the hands of the
coroner and it is too early to provide any further information."


It recalled that Clark, a policeman's daughter, had been
wrongfully jailed for more than three years after being falsely
accused of murdering 11-week-old Christopher in December 1996 and
eight-week-old Harry in January 1998.


"Sadly, she never fully recovered from the effects of this
appalling miscarriage of justice," the statement said.


It described Clark as a "loving and talented wife, mother,
daughter and friend" who will be "greatly missed."


The Court of Appeal in London quashed Clark's murder convictions
as "unsafe" after she was found guilty of smothering Christopher
and shaking Harry to death at her luxury home in Wilmslow,
northwest England.


During the appeal, Clark's barrister argued that microbiological
test results on Harry showed that he probably died suddenly after
an infection.


Evidence of this infection had been known to a prosecution
pathologist, who had carried out postmortem tests on both babies,
but it was not disclosed at trial, the court was told.


Professor Sir Roy Meadow gave evidence during her trial claiming
the probability of two natural unexplained cot deaths in the
family was 73 million to one.


The Royal Statistical Society and other medical experts disputed
the figure, saying the odds of a second cot death in a family
were around 200 to one.


2Sir Roy was found guilty of serious professional misconduct and
struck off the medical register, but like Clark, he saw the
decision against him overturned on appeal.

