

A heated debate over whether to excavate one of the 28 imperial
tombs dotting the outskirts of China's ancient capital of Xian
has resurfaced with a respected economist weighing in on the
advantages to the nation of opening the royal grave.


"The cultural enlightenment from excavating the tomb of Qinshi
Huang will surpass the pyramids of Egypt," Zhang Wuchang of Hong
Kong University said in a recent article that has sparked the
debate.


"Not starting excavations is the same as having nothing. Only by
excavating will we find value capable of contributing to
society."


Zhang's article, posted on his website late last year, drew
heated reaction with the official Xinhua news agency reporting
that over 240,000 people had weighed in with their own opinions.


According to Zhang, by opening up Qinshi Huang's tomb, the
imperial tomb that accompanies Xian's famed terra-cotta warriors,
tourism revenues in Shaanxi province would double.


"Many view this kind of thinking as the main problem facing China
today," said Duan Qingbo, head of the excavation team of the
Qinshi Huang mausoleum.


"A lot of officials are only thinking about money and the
benefits that such an excavation will bring to them. Meanwhile
they ignore the science," he said.


"If any dig is going to be undertaken we have to ensure that what
is found can be preserved, otherwise we will be killing the
chicken that lays the golden egg."


Over 40 million people have visited the mausoleum of Qinshi
Huang, China's first emperor and ruler of the Qin Dynasty (221
BC), since the discovery of the terra-cotta warriors in 1974.


In the first half of 2006, 356,000 foreign visitors and 12.6
million domestic tourists visited Xian, both up around 13 percent
from the previous year, bringing in revenues of 8.49 billion yuan
(1.1 billion dollars), according to the Shaanxi Economic
Information Centre.


Other leading candidates for excavation include the Han Yangling
mausoleum of Han Dynasty (206  AD) emperor Jing Di and the Tang
Dynasty (618-907) Qianling mausoleum of emperor Gaozong and his
powerful empress Wu Zetian.


The Qianlong mausoleum is already a prominent tourist site, while
the Han Yangling museum opened last year.


Modern surveys indicate that the main burial vaults of the three
imperial tombs remain undisturbed, Duan said.


Historic records however suggest that grave robbers cleaned out
at least 17 of the Tang tombs in China's "Valley of the Kings,"
most of the nine nearby Han tombs and even Qinshi Huang's tomb
that lies east of Xian.


Meanwhile, Duan recalls the late 1950 excavation of the Ming
Dynasty (1368-1644) Dingling Mausoleum near Beijing that was
supposed to have brought China to the forefront of world
archaeology.


The dig was a disaster due to poor quality work that was worsened
by the intervening Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) when Red
Guards destroyed some of the finds, including the remains of the
dead emperor.


"Chinese archaeologists have ruined many objects because
excavations were not properly done and the technology was
lacking," Duan said.


This not only includes the bodies of former emperors and
empresses, but also clothes, paintings and any other artifacts
susceptible to disintegration after being exposed to different
atmospheric conditions following up to 2,200 years of burial, he
said.


"Shaanxi province applied to excavate Qianling in 2000, but was
turned down by (China's cabinet) based on the opinions of
archaeologists around the country," Wu Xiaocong, curator of the
Han Yangling Mausoleum, said.


"But techniques are getting better and if a tomb is going to be
excavated, Qianling would likely be the first."


Wu's museum, in the northern outskirts of Xian, boasts state of
the art techniques, with the ongoing dig being carried out under
climate-controlled conditions that will ensure the preservation
of the finds.


Such new techniques mean that the time is nearing when the state-
protected imperial tombs may be excavated, he said.


According to written records, the Qianling tomb holds the Gaozong
emperor's most precious possessions including paintings, silks,
lacquer objects, ceramics, wooden objects, silver, gold and
jewelled articles.


He is also said to be buried in a jade coffin, which purportedly
can prevent the corpse from decaying.


Qinshi Huang's tomb is even more elaborate with historical
records saying the coffin of the first emperor is encased in
molten copper and sits in a large tomb chamber full of fine
vessels, precious stones and rarities.


The ceiling of the chamber is studded with jewels that represent
the stars, sun and moon, while on the floor rivers of mercury
represent the earth.


"Certainly recent initial surveys have found high concentrations
of mercury under the tomb chamber," mausoleum archaeologist Duan
said. "But we will never know how accurate the historical records
are until actual excavation takes place."

