

Three European skiers and their pilot who went missing in revolt-
hit Indian Kashmir are safe, officials said Saturday.


"All the four are safe. They had ejected out of the helicopter in
time after it had developed some trouble," Indian Kashmir's head
of tourism Farooq Shah told AFP.


"We have made contact with them and they will be reaching their
hotel soon. We are very glad to hear this news," Shah said.


The French-piloted chopper that was carrying the trio, among them
a Swiss pioneer of "extreme skiing," vanished on Friday in the
northeastern mountains of Sonamarg, about 100 kilometres (62
miles) from Kashmir's summer capital, Srinagar.


The Indian airforce resumed a search to locate them Saturday
morning after suspending the operation late Friday due to fading
light.


Senior police official Farooq Ahmed said foot patrols had also
set out to search for the missing party.


The heliski trip was led by Sylvain Saudan, a 71-year-old Swiss
national who is recognised as a veteran of extreme skiing in
Europe and the Himalayas.


He has organised paid heliski trips to the Himalayan region for
the past two decades, and has survived two helicopter crashes in
the Sonamarg area, most recently in 2000.


The other two skiers were identified by officials as Diane
Schlegal, aged 49 and a Swiss national, and Gerard Escoubas, a 38
-year-old Frenchman. The pilot of the missing Lama helicopter is
Lucien Brassier, also from France.


Saudan's trips involved departing from Srinagar in the morning,
returning by midday for refueling before making another trip to
the mountains.


Employees at Srinagar's Grand Palace hotel informed the police
when the chopper did not return for the midday fuel stop.


Heliskiing involves using a helicopter to reach isolated peaks
for challenging off-piste descents away from the crowds at
established resorts with lifts.


Hundreds of Western skiers and snowboarders converge on Indian
Kashmir each year, even though the region has been wracked by an
insurgency against Indian rule since 1989.


The area is reputed as having some of the most challenging
extreme and off-piste skiing in the world, accessible either by
helicopter or at the resort of Gulmarg -- a two-hour drive from
Srinagar.

