

The eleven teams who hope to take on the holders Alinghi in
Valencia for the prestigious America's Cup are out on the open
water training intensely just one month before the knock-out
stages.


The America's Cup trophy, the oldest sporting silverware in the
world at 154 years old, on Thursday arrived at the "Puerto de
America" in Valencia, where it will be awarded to the winner of
the event at the beginning of July.


"We are working really hard in order to take the Cup back home
with us," said Grant Dalton, the boss of Emirates Team New
Zealand, who returned to their Valencian base in March after six
months hard training in New Zealand.


Team New Zealand were stunned by Alinghi in Auckland bay four
years ago, and are keen to exact their revenge.


The New Zealanders - who won the America's Cup in 1995 under the
leadership of Sir Peter Blake - are touted as favourites out of
the 11 challengers to pose the biggest threat during the knock-
out stage of the Louis Vuitton Cup starting the April 16.


However the team refuses to endorse their role as top challenger,
knowing all too well that "every race will be difficult to win."


The Kiwis will be up against stiff competition with the likes of
BMW Oracle, the Italian team Luna Rossa, the Spaniards of Desafio
or the Swedes of Victory Challenge among others.


The twelve-hour day (for the majority of the teams) starts with
morning exercises, followed by meetings and then out to sea for
six hours training, before a debriefing and various tasks untill
early evening.


"It's hard six days per week, but how can you be unhappy in
participating in such an event" confessed Bert Willborg,
spokesman for the Swedish team who were close to collapse last
year but remained a afloat thanks to numerous sponsors.


Teams' budgets can vary from more than 100 million euros for
Alinghi or BMW Oracle to a mere 22 million for the French team
Areva Challenge.


Areva will be setting their sights on a spot in the last four
thanks to their young an talented helmsman Sebastien Col and
their new boat Class America FRA 93 which has made a bit of a
splash in Valencia.


But the going will be tough with Swedes, Spaniards, Italian team
Mascalzone Latino and the South African team Shosholoza all with
a shot of a semi-final berth.


"There will be some surprises," promised the Director of the
Louis Vuitton Cup Christine Belanger.


The eventual winner of the Louis Vuitton Cup will then go on to
face Alinghi for the ultimate 'Cup' in a best-of-nine series of
races.


As the boats cruise through the "Port America" the boat-spotters
dotted along the boardwalks try and discern all the new additions
to the brand new Class America.


The boats will be unveiled on April 1, before a series of
preliminary races from April 3 through April 7. And then, after
four years of preparations, it's down to serious business.

