

New Zealand drew first blood against England as they won the
teams' World Cup Group C opener by six wickets here Friday.


Chasing 210 for victory, New Zealand finished on 210 for four
with nine overs to spare after having recovered from 19 for three
in five overs.


They were still in trouble at 72 for four before an unbeaten
stand of 138 between all-rounders Scott Styris (87 not out) and
Jacob Oram (63 not out) saw them home.


The teams - who beat each other twice during England's tri-series
triumph in Australia completed last month - are favourites to
qualify from a group also featuring Kenya and Canada.


Assuming both Test sides do go through, New Zealand will carry
forward two points into the second phase, Super Eight stage.


England, whose modest total of 209 was achieved only after they
were rescued from the depths of 138 for seven by an unbroken
partnership of 71 between wicket-keeper Paul Nixon (42 not out
off 41 balls) and Liam Plunkett (29 not out), made a sensational
start in the field.


James Anderson, doubtful for the match with a fractured finger,
struck with the sixth ball when Lou Vincent fell for nought after
edging to Nixon.


New batsman Ross Taylor then exited for a first ball duck, a
nicked drive off Plunkett brilliantly caught one-handed by a
diving Andrew Flintoff at first slip.


Black Caps captain Stephen Fleming at least managed seven before
a miscued pull off Anderson was well-held by Ed Joyce, running
round from square leg.


From 19 for three Styris, who'd earlier taken two for 25,
counter-attacked alongside the experienced Craig McMillan.


Their stand was worth 53 when Monty Panesar came on and, with his
second ball, the left-arm spinner had McMillan (27) lofting to
Jamie Dalrymple in the covers.


Styris pressed on, completing a 70-ball fifty by sweeping off-
spinner Dalrymple for his sixth four.


England's lack of runs now started to hurt and hopes of victory
all but disappeared when Kevin Pietersen, at short cover, dropped
a catch he should have held when Styris, on 61, checked a drive
off Panesar.


Oram, who lofted Panesar for a straight six, got to his fifty in
68 balls with two fours in a well-paced display.


Earlier Pietersen, in his first full international since January
after sustaining a rib injury in Australia, top scored for
England with 60.


From 133 for three, England lost four wickets for five runs,
three going down for one run in seven balls as key batsmen Paul
Collingwood (31), Pietersen and Flintoff, out for a first ball
nought, all fell in quick succession.


Fast bowler Shane Bond took two wickets in four balls as
Pietersen tamely holed out to James Franklin at long-on before
Flintoff chipped to Styris at short cover.


Medium-pacer Styris had started the slump when he removed
Collingwood after an attempted guide to third man was well-held
by Brendon McCullum - one of four catches for the wicket-keeper -
to end a fourth-wicket stand of 81, the best of England's
innings.


Fleming, on a pitch freshened by early morning rain, which
delayed the start by 30 minutes, saw his decision to field first
vindicated second ball when left-arm quick Franklin had Ed Joyce
caught behind for nought.


England captain Michael Vaughan, battling a hamstring injury that
saw him play just three one-dayers in Australia, looked in good
touch. But on 26 he bottom- egded a pull off Franklin into his
stumps.


England play Canada on Sunday while New Zealand face Kenya,
seven-wicket winners over the North Americans, on Tuesday.

