

Ferrari's celebrations over Kimi Raikkonen's pole-winning drive
in Australian Grand Prix qualifying were Saturday tempered by
potential race problems for teammate Felipe Massa.


Massa failed to complete qualifying and will start from the
eighth row of the grid in Sunday's season-opening race.


Raikkonen confirmed his early-season speed edge over his Formula
One rivals and is favourite to land Ferrari the first GP of the
17-race season, but Ferrari are under pressure for podium points
from rivals McLaren, who have both their drivers in forward grid
positions.


World champion Fernando Alonso will start outside of Raikkonen on
the front row, while rookie Lewis Hamilton is on the second row.


Raikkonen's early advantage could be somewhat negated should
Alonso and Hamilton both earn points for McLaren in the
constructors' title.


"A bitter-sweet start to the first weekend for us," Ferrari team
chief Jean Todt said.


"While there is satisfaction with the pole for Kimi, there is
disappointment because of the gearbox problem that affected
Felipe.


"Ferrari showed it had the potential to be a front-runner on a
day that confirmed the pecking order we had seen during winter
testing.


"Today we had the performance, but not the reliability and now we
have to work out how to get the most out of the sporting
regulations."


Massa, who was impressively fast in practice ahead of his ill-
plagued qualifying, said his aim now was to bring his car home in
Sunday's race.


"What happened in qualifying with the gearbox was a shame, given
the good car we had and the strong performance yesterday and
today," the Brazilian said.


"Tomorrow my main aim will be to bring the car to the finish,
trying to move up the order as much as possible.


"I am still confident because I know we have a car that is very
good in terms of race pace, but it will be difficult to finish in
the top places."


Massa will be hoping for better fortune than he had in last
year's Australian Grand Prix. He also started from well back on
the grid and was subsequently knocked out in the opening lap of
the 2006 race.

