

Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama on Friday sought
international help to prod Tamil Tiger rebels waging a battle for
a separate homeland to return to the negotiating table.


"The international community should once again seek to prevail
upon the LTTE to return to the negotiations and to negotiate in
good faith," he said during a visit to Washington, where he held
talks with US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and other
senior government officials.


Direct peace negotiations between Colombo and the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) stalled in October last year and
fighting has intensified despite the two sides agreeing to a
Norwegian-brokered truce in 2002.


More than 4,000 people have also been killed since December 2005.


Bogollagama urged the international community to make clear to
LTTE rebels that they should respond "in a time bound fashion
with specific targets" if they wanted to return to talks.


They should "not seek to use such an opportunity to merely buy
time or to score tactical advantages," he said.


"Above all they must join the democratic political mainstream.
After all there are several militant groups that have
successfully made this transition," he said.


Bogollagama said it was "hard to tell" whether foreigners would
succeed in convincing the LTTE but added that they "must push the
LTTE to make this choice, and make it now" as Colombo prepared
constitutional reforms that would set the stage for devolution of
power in Sri Lanka.


An all-party consultative committee has emerged with several
proposed constitutional reforms to be refined into a "final" plan
by April, he said.


If the Tamil Tigers "cannot be de-clawed," he said, the
international community should commit themselves to work with
Tamil democratic parties to further the interests of the Tamil
community.


The LTTE has been fighting for about three decades for an
independent state for the minority Tamil community northeast of
the majority-Sinhalese island nation.


The United States together with Japan, the European Union and
Norway are co- chairs of the a Tokyo donors' conference which had
tied 4.5 billion dollars of aid to Sri Lanka to progress on a
peace settlement.


Rice and Bogollagama discused human rights and humanitarian
conditions in Sri Lanka as well as the peace process, State
Department spokeswoman Nancy Beck told AFP.


"We support the Sri Lankan government's efforts to seek a
political settlement to the conflict that will satisfy the
aspirations of all Sri Lankans," Beck said.


Human Rights Watch has accused Sri Lanka of forcing people
displaced by recent fighting in the country's civil war to return
home despite fears that the areas were still unsafe, and called
for Colombo to guarantee their security.


It had accused the military of threatening to withdraw security
for people who refused to return.

