

Raw materials saw mixed trading again this week, with crude oil
prices retreating, as another fierce sell-off in global equities
created ripples across world commodities markets.


Stock markets around the globe sank this week as anxious
investors assess the outlook for the US economy, with problems
brewing in the American housing sector. That has sparked some
concern over commodities demand in the United States, which is
the world's biggest economy.


"Commodity markets have held up well despite the turmoil in risky
financial assets," said Goldman Sachs analyst Jeffrey Currie.


He added: "While the commodity markets had largely priced in the
softer economic environment, the risky financial assets -- and
equities in particular -- still held a relatively optimistic view
of growth."


OIL: Oil prices fell owing to fresh stock market turmoil, before
clawing back some ground late in the week.


Prices also tumbled as traders digested forecasts of warmer
weather across the United States, which is the world's biggest
energy consumer.


Crude futures drifted lower after the OPEC crude cartel held its
daily output target at 25.8 million barrels at a ministerial
meeting in Vienna, arguing that global supply levels were
healthy.


The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Counties supplies
more than one third of global crude.


Limited support came from the International Energy Agency, which
warned of a potential supply crunch in many industrialized
nations during the first quarter of 2007.


Geopolitical concerns over key crude producer Iran also
resurfaced.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in May fell to 61.28 dollars per barrel, from 61.51
dollars the previous week.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in April sank to
57.90 dollars per barrel from 60.85 dollars.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Grains and soya prices fell in line with stock
markets.


"The main reason this week we're down is because of the world
economy jitters," Allendale analyst Joe Victor said.


"The stock market have been rattled the last two weeks. You have
got some crossover into the futures market with some traders
taking profit out of the futures (markets) to help pay the losses
from the stock market."


On the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of wheat for May
delivery fell to 4.6125 US dollars per bushel on Friday, from
4.7650 dollars the previous week.


Maize for May delivery slid to 3.9850 dollars per bushel on
Friday, from 4.1750 dollars the previous week.


May-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- dropped to
7.5250 dollars on Friday, from 7.5975 dollars the previous week.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price of a tonne of
wheat for May delivery stood at 97.50 pounds, unchanged from the
previous week.


GOLD: Gold prices climbed after faltering at the start of the
week.


"The stronger euro (against the dollar) leaves the gold market
somewhat cheap relative to currency markets and ought to see gold
challenge the 655 dollars per ounce level," said JP Morgan
analyst Michael Jansen.


A weaker US dollar makes gold less expensive for buyers using
other currencies.


On the London Bullion Market, gold prices firmed to 653.20
dollars per ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 652.25 dollars
the previous Friday.


SILVER: Silver prices held steady, despite gold's move higher.


"Silver should find further support from bullish base metals,"
said James Moore, an analyst for specialist website
TheBullionDesk.com.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices stood at 13.07
dollars per ounce at Friday's late fixing, unchanged from the
previous week.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Platinum prices followed gold higher but
palladium struggled. However, there was strong speculative buying
interest for both metals, analysts said.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum stood at
1,217 dollars per ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,203 the
previous week.


Palladium eased to 351 dollars per ounce, from 352 dollars one
week earlier.


BASE METALS: Base metal prices mainly rose, with nickel smashing
another record as traders tracked weak stockpiles.


Nickel climbed as high as 48,500 dollars on the London Metal
Exchange (LME), which is the world's leading metals futures
market.


"Nickel price performance has remained impressive, with prices
setting a series of record highs on the back of continued strong
stainless steel demand, supply disruptions and delays and the
critically low LME nickel inventory," said Barclays Capital
analysts.


Copper, meanwhile, breached 6,500 dollars per tonne owing to
voracious Chinese demand.


"China's imports of copper... hit their highest level ever last
month, thanks to tight domestic supplies and high premiums,"
added UBS analyst Robin Bahr.


On Friday, three-month copper prices jumped to 6,490 dollars per
tonne on the LME, from 6,150 dollars the previous week.


Three-month aluminium prices rose to 2,775 dollars per tonne from
2,727.5 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices rocketed to 46,800 dollars per tonne
from 42,450 dollars.


Three-month lead prices gained to 1,885 dollars per tonne from
1,804 dollars.


Three-month zinc prices slid to 3,220 dollars per tonne from
3,300 dollars.


Three-month tin prices increased to 13,900 dollars per tonne from
13,740 dollars a week earlier.


COCOA: In London cocoa prices hit an eight-month peak of 1,010
pounds per tonne, which was last seen in July 2006, supported by
forecasts of a large production deficit.


New York cocoa meanwhile surged as high as 1,800 dollars per
tonne, which was last seen in May 2003.


The price outlook "remains bullish for cocoa because of
expectations of tight supplies," said Sucden analyst Michael
Davies.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for May delivery slid
to 989 pounds per tonne, from 995 pounds a week earlier.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the May contract stood at
1,792 dollars per tonne on Friday, from 1,789 dollars the
previous week.


COFFEE: Coffee prices steadied, trading within narrow margins
after heavy losses the previous week.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for May delivery stood at
1,509 dollars per tonne, from 1,508 dollars a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for May delivery dropped to 109.90 US cents
per pound on Friday, from 111.90 cents the previous week.


SUGAR: Sugar prices were stable.


"The market still remains under pressure from the prospect of a
larger crop in Brazil this season," Davies added.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of a tonne of white sugar for
August delivery firmed to 329 dollars, compared with 328 dollars
a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
stood at 10.20 US cents per pound, from 10.36 US cents the
previous week.


WOOL: Wool prices rose thanks to a pick-up in demand.


"In another good week of strong demand there were significant
increases over all Merino micron ranges on Wednesday," the
Australian Wool Industry Secretariat said.


Some 63,279 bales are rostered for sale next week in Sydney,
Melbourne and Freemantle.


The Australian wool market finished 1.8 percent higher on average
this week, with the Eastern index rising to 9.62 Australian
dollars per kilo, from 9.43 dollars the previous week.

