

Herschelle Gibbs made history by hitting six sixes in an over
while Jacques Kallis smashed a stunning century as South Africa
piled up 353-3 against the Netherlands in the World Cup on
Friday.


Gibbs became the first man in history to achieve the rare feat of
six sixes in an over in a one-day match and only the third player
to do so in all forms of cricket.


He launched into Dutch right-arm leg-break bowler Daan van Bunge
in the 30th over, hitting him for five straight sixes and one to
deep mid-wicket at the Warner Park ground during his robust
40-ball, 72.


Kallis, who finished unbeaten on 128, also plundered a hapless
Dutch attack, hitting eleven boundaries and five sixes during his
unbeaten 109-ball knock after South Africa were put in to bat in
the Group A game.


Mark Boucher then piled on the agony with a rapid-fire 31-ball,
unbeaten 75 which included nine boundaries and four sixes.


The match was reduced to 40-overs-a-side after overnight and
early morning rain left the outfield wet and delayed the start by
two-and-a-half-hours but once it started it rained sixes and
boundaries.


South Africa hit 18 sixes in all beating Pakistan's record of
most sixes in a one-day innings of 14 hit against Sri Lanka at
Nairobi in 1996-97.


The 33-year-old Gibbs followed West Indian great Sir Gary Sobers
and India's Ravi Shastri who both hit six sixes in an over but
they came in first class cricket.


Sobers was the first to reach the landmark playing for
Nottinghamshire against Glamorgan at Swansea in 1968 with Malcolm
Nash the bowler taking the punishment.


Former India all-rounder Ravi Shastri then equalled the feat
playing for Bombay against Baroda in 1984.


Gibbs finally holed out to van Bunge at long-on off Dutch captain
Luuk van Troost in the 31st over.


The South African star hit seven sixes and four boundaries during
his thrilling knock.


Kallis, who watched Gibbs' onslaught at the other end, reached
his 15th one-day hundred off 97 balls studded with ten boundaries
and two sixes.


South African skipper Graeme Smith hit a 59-ball 67 with six
boundaries and a six after his team had lost opener AB de
Villiers, caught behind off the second ball of the innings to
paceman Billy Stelling.


South Africa struggled to four runs in the first five overs
before Smith lifted the first of 18 sixes in the innings to
initiate the charge.


Peter Borren had Smith caught in the outfield but Gibbs carried
on his assault.


The historic feat will also cost a leading drinks firm one
million dollars.


The Johnnie Walker company had already agreed to donate the money
to charity in honour of the first player to register the
landmark.


Gibbs also erased Sanath Jayasuriya's record of most runs in a
one-day over which stood at 30 -- achieved twice against
Pakistan's Aamir Sohail in Singapore in 1996 and New Zealander
Chris Harris at Sharjah five years later.

