

Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone has hinted Australia should
consider staging their Grands Prix at night to boost their
chances of extending their current F1 licence, reports said
Saturday.


Ecclestone wants to include a number of night races on the F1
schedule as early as next season.


He believes the current Australian race does not produce big
enough European television ratings because of the early morning
viewing schedules.


And he has indicated that a decision to hold the race at night
will count in Melbourne's favour when the time comes to consider
an extension of its F1 licence beyond 2010.


Ecclestone was quoted in Saturday's The Australian newspaper as
saying about the possibility of Melbourne staying on future F1
circuits by shifting to a night race: "We won't say that, but
yes, they should think about it."


The F1 boss is delighted with the attendance figures the
Melbourne street race generates.


"I saw something in the papers today saying there was nobody here
yesterday," Ecclestone said in a radio interview Friday.


"There's no other circuit in the world on a Thursday that gets
more than 45,000 people," he said.


"I mean it's completely crazy that people are talking about
this."


Ecclestone said Melbourne is not in danger of losing the race
because it has held it for 12 years.


He cited Monaco, which had held the race without interruption
since the 1950s, as an example of a city which, like Melbourne,
had held the race for a long time.


Ecclestone said there were up to six other countries keen to host
a Formula One race, but Melbourne's bid to extend the contract
beyond 2010 will be considered on merit just as it had been in
the past.


"So obviously that will be taken into consideration," he said.


Australian Grand Prix Corporation chairman Ron Walker, who
floated the idea of night racing this week, insists Ecclestone is
not delivering Australian race organisers an ultimatum.


"Mr Ecclestone is not saying either you take it or you don't," he
said. "This has nothing to do with the renewing of our contract."


The Australian newspaper said there is no doubt that the push for
an evening race at Albert Park is coming from Ecclestone rather
than Walker.


"While shifting the race to night would do nothing to improve the
bottom line of the race for Victorian (state) taxpayers -- an
estimated 10 million dollars (7.8 million USD) in lights will add
to the cost of an event that is this year expected to lose 35
million dollars (28 million USD) -- the benefit to F1 coffers in
showing the race at a watchable time in Europe would be
substantial," the newspaper said.


Walker told The Australian: "About one billion people could watch
this in Europe, at a proper hour, rather than getting up at 5am,
if we embraced night racing.


"I am not saying for a minute it is going to happen but you have
got to consider all things to improve the sport."


Walker says there is much work to be done before any decision is
taken, including conducting a feasibility study to determine
whether the circuit could be sufficiently lit to safely hold a F1
race.

