

A man charged with an Islamist suicide bomber plot to rock London
told a court Friday he was protesting over Muslim suffering,
especially in Iraq, as one of the six accused gave evidence for
the first time.


Muktar Said Ibrahim has admitted being "principally responsible"
for making the explosive devices used in the suspected failed
terrorist attack on London's transport system on July 21, 2005,
which came exactly two weeks after a deadly wave of suicide
bombings.


But the Eritrean-born 29-year-old did not mean to injure anyone
with the devices, he insisted at Woolwich Crown Court in
southeast London.


Ibrahim swore on the Koran before giving evidence in the high-
profile trial, being held in Britain's highest-security court.


He immediately admitted he was the man on a bus in east London
caught on security camera footage apparently detonating a
rucksack.


His defence counsel George Carter-Stephenson asked: "Did you have
-- to describe it neutrally -- a device with you?"


Ibrahim replied: "Yes."


The lawyer asked: "Did you intend or hope that that device would
explode?" And the defendant replied, "No."


Carter-Stephenson said: "Was the device an improvised explosive
device, in other words, was it -- to your knowledge -- capable of
detonation?"


"No, it was not capable of detonation," Ibrahim replied.


His defence counsel continued: "In a short sentence, can you help
this jury as to why you had that device with you on July 21,
2005?"


Ibrahim replied: "To protest against the plight of Muslims
everywhere, especially in Iraq."


In one of the highest-profile cases involving alleged terrorism
seen in Britain, the accused deny charges of conspiracy to murder
and conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life.


On the opening day of the case in January, the accused were
alleged to have made bombs out of chapati flour, hydrogen
peroxide, acetone and acid, and packed with nails and screws to
maximise "devastation."


Jurors have been shown dramatic security camera footage of the
moments the alleged would-be suicide bombers tried to blow up
three London Underground trains and a bus.


Besides Ibrahim, the accused are Ramzi Mohammed, 25, Manfo Kwaku
Asiedu, 33, Hussain Osman, 28, Yassin Omar, 26, and Adel Yahya,
24, all originally from Africa.

