

World oil prices edged lower on Friday as traders digested the
impact of a decision by the OPEC cartel to keep its crude
production levels steady.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, lost 44 cents to close at 57.11 dollars a
barrel.


It was a volatile session, with New York futures veering between
a high of 58.29 dollars a barrel and a low of 56.17.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
retreated 38 cents to 60.30 dollars a barrel.


"OPEC's agreement to leave production restraints unchanged was
widely anticipated, but the impact of the decision is still being
debated," Deutsche Bank analyst Adam Siemski in London said.


Crude futures had fallen on Thursday after the Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries kept its daily output target at
25.8 million barrels, arguing that global supply levels are
healthy.


"The market is stable, the market is healthy, we do not need to
touch (output) at this time," OPEC secretary-general Abdullah al-
Badri told a press conference after a ministerial meeting in
Vienna.


The 12-nation cartel had already cut production at its two
previous meetings in October and December.


In its monthly report, OPEC added that world oil demand would
grow by 1.5 percent in 2007, matching its forecasts in January
and February.


OPEC's only surprise was its announcement to meet in September,
skipping an expected June meeting, analysts said. The cartel said
its next meeting would be an ordinary session in Vienna on
September 11.


The move suggested "they are in no hurry to raise output again,"
said Tim Evans, a Citigroup analyst.


Crude oil prices began the week in negative territory on Monday
as traders digested forecasts of warmer weather across the United
States, which is the world's biggest energy consumer.


The market was also roiled by fresh turmoil on global equity
markets and patchy US energy reserves.


Prices found some support after the International Energy Agency
warned of a potential supply crunch in many industrialized
nations during the first quarter of 2007.


Fimat analyst Mike Fitzpatrick said selling pressure could resume
next week as the OPEC decision plays out.


"Since this outcome offered no new price support, participants
may be a little disgruntled, since the cartel's compliance
record, to date, has been inconsistent," he said.


There is a widespread belief that not every OPEC member has
abided by the previous decisions to cut output, which was taken
in a bid to lift oil prices back up following a long slide from
mid-2006 highs above 78 dollars a barrel.


Fitzpatrick, however, noted there were also supportive factors
for prices, such as supply constraints for US gasoline.


"Continue to be mindful of the evolving dispute with Iran. It has
the potential to provide significant price support to the whole
complex," he added.

