

New Zealand all-rounder Scott Styris had one thing on his mind
when he came to the crease against England: bat.


And the 31-year-old did that and more, scoring an unbeaten 87 as
the Black Caps ultimately cruised to victory in their World Cup
opener here Friday by six wickets with nine overs to spare.


But victory looked anything but assured when Styris came in at
three for two. He could only watch as the Kiwis slumped to 19 for
three and then 72 for four.


But together with fellow seam-bowling all-rounder Jacob Oram (63
not out) he shared an unbroken stand of 138 to see New Zealand to
a victory that will secure them two points in the second phase,
Super Eight stage should England qualify alongside them from a
Group C also featuring Canada and Kenya.


"Just to bat really," said Styris when asked for his thoughts as
he walked out at No 4 after a top-order collapse.


"We thought we could only lose the game if we got bowled out, so
we really just had to go out and play and just take it as deep as
we could. We have a naturally aggressive side and runs still
came, probably for the last 30 overs, we didn't really need to
take a risk."


Man-of-the-match Styris, who'd earlier taken two for 25, with his
medium-pacers, faced 113 balls with nine fours.


It was a timely innings, representing his best performance with
the bat since he returned in February from a back injury during
the triangular series, won by England, in  Australia.


"I hadn't played very well since I came back from my back injury
so it was great to contribute today. I set myself to have a good
World Cup and I wanted to do well here and it's been a good
start."


Styris, who in 124 one-day internationals has scored 2,746 runs
at an average of 29.52 with three hundreds and 16 fifties, said
he had felt under pressure for his place from in-form batsman
Peter Fulton, not selected for this match after sustaining a
finger injury.


"You can't take your position for granted and we've got Peter
Fulton, who missed out today, who's had a good last three, four,
five matches so I knew the heat was on me to go out there and
deliver put on a performance worthy of keeping my position in the
side.


"I'm pleased that that was able to happen."

