

Ahead of a two-week deadline, the United States and South Korea
expressed optimism Friday on crafting an ambitious free trade
agreement as they prepared for the final stretch of tough
negotiations.


"We've come a long way, we still have a way to go but I firmly
believe we can get there by the end of March," chief US
negotiator Wendy Cutler told a forum in Washington.


She said quality would not be sacrificed in the rush to complete
the deal, the biggest free trade pact since the 1993 North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).


"Let me say that it is not going to be just any deal. I believe
we can achieve a high-quality, comprehensive and balanced deal
that both (sides) can take home and get the necessary
stakeholders' support to get through the  respective legislative
bodies," she said.


US President George W. Bush's powers to fast-track trade
agreements expire in June. That gives US negotiators up to March
31 to present a deal for a mandatory 90-day congressional review
that would then be subject to just an outright yes- or-no vote
without amendments.


Cutler said after negotiations at the officials-level the coming
week, a "handful" of outstanding and sensitive issues could be
taken up with the top leadership of the two countries for final
resolution.


When the eighth round of negotiations in Seoul ended last week,
the two sides had closed three chapters of the prospective deal
-- on customs, competition and government procurement, Cutler
said.


In seven other chapters -- general services, financial services,
market access, transparency, telecommunications, e-commerce and
standards -- "we are very, very close" to meeting targets, she
said.


On the most sensitive areas facing the United States -- the auto
sector, agriculture and pharmaceuticals -- Cutler said "we have
no breakthroughs but I would say that the outlines of the deal on
these issues is definitely becoming clearer."


Choi Seak Young, a senior South Korean embassy official in
Washington, also expressed confidence the two sides could meet
the deadline after 10 months of talks despite hostility from
farmers and other workers in his country who fear for the loss of
their jobs if US goods gain access.


"I am also optimistic that the deal will be done by end of
March," he told the forum. "The deadline could give negotiators a
unique opportunity to show flexibility."


He said the upbeat mood stemmed from three critical factors --
strong political commitment at the highest levels of both
countries, strong support from their private sectors and
"dramatically diminishing" skepticism that prevailed last year.


"Both sides have kept a high level of ambition and at same time
showed flexibility towards the deal," Choi said, expecting "great
progress" from high level meetings in the coming week.


One issue that stood in the way of the free trade negotiations
was South Korea's import ban on US beef.


But Seoul made a key concession last week, easing restrictions on
imports by allowing individual packages free of bone chips to be
sold in South Korea.


Washington has accused Seoul of using the fragments as a pretext
to exclude its beef and to protect local farmers while US
senators warned they would not back any FTA unless beef imports
were allowed.


The goods bilateral trade of military allies the United States
and South Korea reached 74 billion dollars in 2006, with services
trade accounting for another 14 billion dollars.


Both sides believe that an FTA "will really bring to each country
economic, commercial, political, strategic benefits as well as to
together strengthen  the ties between two longstanding allies and
add strong economic components to our relationship," Cutler said.


She and her South Korean counterpart Kim Jong-Hoon will lead
their teams to the final stretch of talks beginning Sunday in
Washington while top agriculture officials will simultaneously
hold meetings in Seoul.

