

Britain's No 1 Andy Murray had to overcome a nasty fall to post
one of the more remarkable comebacks of his career on Friday.


The 19-year-old Scot defeated Germany's Tommy Haas 3-6, 6-3, 7-6
(10/8) in the quarter-finals of the ATP/WTA Pacific Life Open.


Murray moves to the semi-finals of the 5.3 million dollar
hardcourt tournament in the California desert where he will play
Serbia's Novak Djokovic, who beat David Ferrer of Spain 6-3, 6-4.


"It was pretty eventful," Murray said. "It was a great match. At
one point I didn't think I was going to be able to continue."


It also was a gritty performance in front of an announced crowd
of 15,418 by Murray. He had not only had to recover from a first
set loss, but also a nasty fall early in the second set which
resulted in one of several visits by the trainer for treatment.


On the women's side of the draw former champ Daniela Hantuchova
set up a finals showdown with second seed Svetlana Kuznetsova,
while China's Li Na suffered a semi-final defeat.


Hantuchova, who won here in 2002, and former US Open champ
Kuznetsova meet in Saturday's final.


Murray also fought off two match points in the tie break then
clinched the match on his second match point when Haas pushed a
backhand long to end the almost three hour match.


Murray started slow in dropping the first set, then found his
serve in the second and forced Haas into making mistakes on his
groundstroke in the third.


There was a strange twist early in the second set which resulted
in a nine- minute delay after Murray tumbled hard while running
for a drop shot.


Murray stepped awkwardly, flew through the air before landing on
his side. He immediately grabbed his left ankle.


He lay face down on the ground in pain until Haas reached him.
Haas helped him sit up before the medical trainer arrived and
treated Murray for a twisted ankle and a bloody knee.


"I had the momentum in the second set and when I fell it was a
bit of a shock," said Murray who plays with a brace on his left
ankle. "I had problems with my ankle before and I told Tommy I
felt something snap but it might have been the strap on the
brace.


"The trainer taped it up and said it wasn't so bad so I continued
to play but then my side started to hurt because I fell on it.


"I'm a pretty sore right now. It is hard to bend (knee). Since I
have stopped playing my side is also starting to tighten up.


"I just hope by tomorrow when I wake up that I am not too sore."


Murray also received treatment for blisters at the end of the
first set.


But rather than fade, Murray stepped up his game after the
injury.


"It looked like he was actually hurt," Haas said. "He took an
injury time out and that was fine."


Murray had seven aces, 26 winners and 37 unforced errors to Haas'
seven aces, 36 winners and 58 unforced errors.


Murray won first career title in San Jose last year and then
defended it earlier this year.


This was the first career meeting between Murray and Haas, who
said he wasn't expecting Murray to play at such a slow pace at
times.


"He moves really well but it is incredible how slow he is," Haas
said. "The way we played a couple of rallies it felt like we were
back in juniors.


"He plays slice moves and defence. But he came up with some great
passing shots on big points."


Hantuchova, the lone former women's champion remaining, defeated
Li 7-5, 4-6, 6-1 in the semis.


This marks the first final of the year for Hantuchova who made a
name for herself by capturing the 2002 Indian Wells title.


"There is definitely something very special about this place for
me," Hantuchova said. "It is a fantastic feeling to be back on
the court and in the finals once again."


Kuznetsova defeated Sybille Bammer 6-7 (5/7), 6-4, 6-1 in a two
hour, 39 minute marathon semi-final on Friday.


On Wednesday, top seed and defending champion Maria Sharapova and
third seed and former champion Martina Hingis were eliminated.


The draw was already missing big names Serena Williams, Amelie
Mauresmo and Justine Henin, who decided to skip this event.

