

North Korea will not shut down its nuclear facilities until the
United States releases all funds frozen in a Macau bank, the
communist state's chief nuclear negotiator said Saturday as US
Treasury officials were in Macau for talks.


"If the United States does not remove all of its restriction on
our funds at Banco Delta Asia (BDA), we cannot shut down our
nuclear facilities at Yongbyon," Kim Kye-gwan told reporters on
arrival in Beijing.


Kim's comments were North Korea's first reaction to the US
Treasury's announcement on Wednesday that it had cleared the way
for the release of about 25 million dollars of North Korean funds
frozen in the Macau-based BDA.


In its ruling, the US Treasury barred US banks from dealing with
BDA, an institution it said had laundered money for reclusive
North Korea.


But the move allowed Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the cash after the bank was left in receivership.


Asked if North Korea would stop some of the operations in
Yongbyon if only part of the frozen funds were released, Kim
said: "(In that case) operations won't stop at all," reported
South Korea's Yonhap news agency.


Referring to any future visit to North Korea by the UN's
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors, Kim said:
"The entry by IAEA staff will come only after Yongbyon is shut
down. There would be no reason for them to come as long as
Yongbyon is not shut down."


Kim added that North Korea had not received any notification from
the United States regarding the lifting of financial sanctions,
according to China's official Xinhua news agency.


A US Treasury delegation led by Deputy Assistant Secretary Daniel
Glaser was due to discuss with Macau authorities Saturday what
steps could be taken to lift the restrictions, a spokeswoman
said.


"Discussions will focus on implementation of the final rule and
steps the Macanese and BDA can take for the Treasury to consider
lifting the rule," Treasury spokeswoman Molly Millerwise told
AFP.


Hong Kong's US consulate said Glaser would brief the press in
Hong Kong at 6:15 pm (1015 GMT) Saturday.


Christopher Hill, chief US envoy on North Korea, expressed
confidence the BDA issue "will not pose an obstacle to the six-
party talks."


"I'm quite sure we will not be talking about the BDA issue any
more in a couple of days," Hill said Saturday.


A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday had hailed US moves to
resolve the financial sanctions as a "landmark event," raising
hopes for progress in long-running disarmament talks.


Kim and Hill are in Beijing for Monday's start of the next round
of six-party negotiations, which group the two Koreas, China, the
United States, Russia and Japan.


Hill, who had said he would meet Kim soon after Kim's arrival,
attended a working group meeting Saturday along with other
representatives of the nations involved in the talks.


UN atomic agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei had said on Friday that
he hoped an April 13 deadline could be met for starting to
dismantle North Korea's nuclear weapons programme.


ElBaradei told reporters on returning to Vienna after visits to
Pyongyang and Beijing that he thought the North Koreans "still
would like to see that deadline respected and we still hope to do
it by April 13."


"If the financial sanctions are over, then we expect the DPRK
(North Korea) to invite us to work out the modalities of
monitoring and verification" of North Korea's deal to close and
seal its Yongbyon plutonium-producing reactor by April 13, the
IAEA director general said.


That would be 60 days after the six-party agreement reached in
Beijing on February 13.

