

Citing "hazy memories," the White House on Friday changed key
details of its defense in a mushrooming controversy over federal
prosecutor firings that may cost Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales his job.


The increasingly sharp dispute adds to the headaches in a White
House already laboring under the unpopular Iraq war, grim reports
of poor health care for veterans, and the conviction of a former
top aide in a CIA leak case.


And in a move that could set the stage for a battle with
Congress, US President George W. Bush's government lawyer said he
needed until Tuesday to decide whether top officials would
testify before lawmakers on the issue.


That angered Democrats at a time when they have been calling for
Gonzales to resign or be fired, joined by some Republicans while
others in Bush's party stopped short but warned they have lost
confidence in the attorney general.


With the pressure mounting, White House spokesman Tony Snow
cautiously downplayed speculation about Gonzales's future and
declined to say whether top Bush aides, including political guru
Karl Rove, would testify before Congress.


"There are ongoing conversations" with Democrats, who have warned
they are prepared to subpoena Rove and others to force them to
discuss the controversy under oath, said Snow.


Late Thursday, newly released electronic mail suggested that Rove
had played a bigger role in the mass firing than the White House
had claimed earlier -- leading Democrats to redouble their
efforts to secure White House testimony.


Last month, aides to Gonzales had insisted that the eight ousted
prosecutors had been fired for performance reasons and that then-
incoming White House counsel Harriet Miers had first raised the
idea -- quickly shot down -- of removing all 93 US Attorneys
after Bush's 2004 reelection.


Snow, who earlier this week passed along those claims, carefully
backed off during two briefings with reporters on Friday,
explaining that "at this juncture, people have hazy memories."


"I want to try to err on the side of caution by noting that Karl
(Rove) had a recollection that she (Miers) had mentioned it to
him, and that's really as far as we can go with it," said Snow.
"He thought it was a bad idea."


On the question of whether the firings were because of poor job
performance, Snow declared "I'm not going to be the fact witness"
but hinted that it would be enough to resist Bush policies "for
reasons of conscience or whatever."


"Loyalty to the President means doing your job and faithfully
carrying out the priorities of the administration," he said,
saying that it would be enough to disagree on "something like the
death penalty or pornography statutes."


Asked whether Bush might have ordered the firings, Snow said
"anything is possible" but emphasized "I don't think so" and went
on: "I want you to be clear here. Don't be dropping it at the
president's feet."


Critics have charged that some of them were fired for political
reasons, noting that one, Carol Lam in California, played a
central role in a major corruption case that led to a prison term
for a Republican congressman and may have led to the resignation
of a top CIA official.


Another was the target of complaints by Republican elected
officials that eventually reached Bush, who has denied ordering
the removal of any specific US attorneys.


White House officials deny any wrongdoing, noting that Bush
praised the investigation and conviction of the Republican
congressman, Randall "Duke" Cunningham.


Snow also brushed aside talk of Gonzales resigning and, when
asked Friday whether Bush would fire the attorney general,
carefully replied "I know of no such plan."

