

North Korea will not shut down its nuclear facilities until the
United States releases all funds frozen in a Macau bank, the
communist state's chief nuclear negotiator said Saturday.


"If the United States does not remove all of its restriction on
our funds at Banco Delta Asia (BDA), we cannot shut down our
nuclear facilities at Yongbyon," Kim Kye-gwan told reporters on
arrival in Beijing.


Kim's comments were North Korea's first reaction to the US
Treasury's announcement on Wednesday that it had cleared the way
for the release of about 25 million dollars of North Korean funds
frozen in the Macau-based BDA.


In its ruling, the US Treasury barred US banks from dealing with
BDA, an institution it said had laundered money for reclusive
North Korea.


But the move allowed Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the cash after the bank was left in receivership.


Asked if North Korea would stop some of the operations in
Yongbyon if only part of the frozen funds were released, Kim
said: "(In that case) operations won't stop at all," reported
South Korea's Yonhap news agency.


As to a visit to North Korea by the UN's International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors, Kim said: "The entry by IAEA
staff will come only after Yongbyon is shut down. There would be
no reason for them to come as long as Yongbyon is not shut down."


Christopher Hill, chief US envoy on North Korea, said Saturday
the BDA issue "will not pose an obstacle to the six-party talks."


"I'm quite sure we will not be talking about the BDA issue any
more in a couple of days," Hill said.


A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday had hailed US moves to
resolve financial sanctions against North Korea as a "landmark
event," raising hopes for progress in long-running disarmament
talks.


Kim and Hill are in Beijing for Monday's start of the next round
of six-party negotiations, which group the two Koreas, China, the
United States, Russia and Japan.


Hill had said he would meet Kim soon after Kim's arrival on
Saturday morning.


UN atomic chief Mohamed ElBaradei said on Friday that he hoped an
April 13 deadline could be met for starting to dismantle North
Korea's nuclear weapons programme.


ElBaradei told reporters on returning to Vienna after visits to
Pyongyang and Beijing that he thought the North Koreans "still
would like to see that deadline respected and we still hope to do
it by April 13."


ElBaradei, director general of the IAEA, said: "If the financial
sanctions are over, then we expect the DPRK (North Korea) to
invite us to work out the modalities of monitoring and
verification" of North Korea's deal to close and seal its
Yongbyon plutonium-producing reactor by April 13.


That would be 60 days after the six-party agreement reached in
Beijing on February 13.

