

Los Angeles superstar Kobe Bryant poured in 65 points on Friday
as the Lakers ended a seven-game National Basketball Association
skid with a 116-111 overtime victory over Portland.


Bryant shot 23-of-39, including 8-of-21 from 3-point range, to
post his second- highest career total.


Bryant's career best was his 81-point outburst against Toronto
last season - second highest in NBA history.


His performance on Friday surpassed his 62-point effort of
December 20, 2005 against Dallas, for No. 2 on his personal-best
chart. Bryant now has 15 games with 50 or more points, four of
them coming this season.


"I felt pretty good. I just wanted to keep on attacking," Bryant
said. "I was in a groove, made some shots when it counted."


More important than the personal points total, Bryant said, was
ending the seven-game slide.


It was the longest losing streak of Lakers coach Phil Jackson's
illustrious 16-year coaching career.


"Oh, man, I finally get a chance to sleep at night," Bryant said
of ending the slide.


"We had to gut it out," he said. "It's good to see we're getting
a little edgy, a little scrappy. Sometimes we need to grind it
out."


Bryant broke a 108-108 tie in overtime with an incredible
fadeaway 3-pointer with two Portland defenders in his face from
the right corner and Maurice Evans added two free throws for a
five-point lead with 28 seconds remaining.


Martell Webster drained a shot from the arc to bring the Trail
Blazers within 113-111 10 seconds later, but Bryant and Evans
made key foul shots to seal the win.


In regulation, Bryant connected on three straight 3-pointers,
including the game-tying shot from the arc with 17 seconds left
to make it 98-98.


The Trail Blazers had a chance to win it, but Zach Randolph
misfired on a 27-footer as the buzzer sounded.


Lamar Odom had 15 points and nine rebounds and Evan netted 14 for
Los Angeles, which pulled one-half game ahead of idle Denver for
seventh place in the Western Conference standings.


Jackson admitted the team felt the "desperation" of ending the
losing streak.


He said Bryant's impact began before the game even started.


"Before the tip-off Kobe went around and got in all those guys'
ears and talked about playing with some intensity and fervor,"
Jackson said.


"That finish was incredible," he said of Bryant's effort, which
included 24 points in the fourth quarter. "They couldn't keep the
ball out of his hands, and they couldn't keep him from putting
that ball in the hoop."

