

Arsenal midfielder Cesc Fabregas has admitted that the club's
ambitions for this season now hinge on their next two games -- a
Merseyside double-header against Everton and Liverpool.


Arsene Wenger's team, knocked out of the League Cup, FA Cup and
Champions League in the space of ten days earlier this month,
must now focus on securing a Champions League spot for next
season by clinching a top four Premiership finish.


Three points at Goodison Park against Everton on Sunday, followed
by another victory over Liverpool at Anfield on March 31, will
all but secure that top four slot for the Gunners.


But Spanish youngster Fabregas admits that Arsenal still believe
second place and an automatic Champions League spot could yet be
up for grabs between now and the end of the season.


Fabregas said: "The next two league games with Everton and
Liverpool will be massive, especially Liverpool because we can
take a step towards closing in on third place.


"It is not hard to be motivated now. For every footballer,
football is our life and what we enjoy the most, so whenever I
play football, I am motivated.


"It is true at times that you have bigger games than others and
for us right now second place is an objective we still want to
try and achieve that."


David Moyes, who celebrated his fifth anniversary as Everton
manager earlier this week, has guided his team to a series of
impressive results against Arsenal at Goodison in recent seasons.


The Scot is without broken foot victim Tim Cahill for the rest of
the season, however, and he admits that the loss of the
Australian midfielder will force him to rethink his team's
approach against Wenger's men.


Moyes said: "Tim is very important to us and we will need to find
a new balance now, a new blend, and it's something that I need to
look for.


"Losing him for such an important chunk of the season is a big,
big miss, and with our squad they way it is, we are quite limited
in our options, but I will have to find something.


"You hope to win as many of your home games as you can and I just
hope we can do it again against Arsenal.


"It's a big ask. They have been here already this season and
beaten us in the League Cup, so we know we have to change that
around.


"But we played with ten men that night for most of the match,
against a team which then went on to do very well in other cup
ties. It's a real hard game, but one we have to take something
from."


Czech midfielder Tomas Rosicky is set to continue for Arsenal
after recently returning from injury and he insists that, despite
the club's failures in the cups, they still have plenty to play
for.


He said: "The win against Aston Villa in midweek was very
important as we have moved ahead of Liverpool now.


"Staying ahead of them is a big target for the last stage of the
league."

