

Millions of fans back home may by expecting India to win the
World Cup, but skipper Rahul Dravid believes the most significant
thing is that the players should not let themselves down.


Nicknamed "The Wall" for his solid defence and sound temperament,
Dravid says he is aware of the fans' expectations and the players
should do their best to live up to them.


"It's just the way you look at it (burden of expectations)...
look at it as a great opportunity, look at it as a chance to make
a lot of people happy. At the end of the day, the boys can only
try their best," said Dravid.


"We should not let ourselves down. That's really important. We
have to go out there and do our best. If we do that, I think the
hopes of a billion people will be satisfied.


"Yes, they (fans) want us to win, but more importantly they want
us to be good representatives of our country and do our best.
That's what we aim to do."


India were opening their Cup campaign against Bangladesh here on
Saturday.


Sri Lanka and debutants Bermuda are other sides in Group B, with
the top two advancing to the next Super Eight stage.


When asked to name a player who could clinch the Cup for India,
Dravid said he did not believe his side can win the event on the
strength of one person's performance alone.


"If you want to compete against top sides, I think you need a
team effort and all the guys to contribute. At various stages of
the tournament, they need to put their hands up and be match-
winners for us," said Dravid.


"I don't think you can name one person. I don't think we can win
the World Cup on the back of one person's performance. We have
got a lot of good players in the team and we expect everyone to
perform.


"If the majority of players have a good tournament, stand up at
critical stages of the games and be counted, then I think we will
do pretty well."


The Indian captain said the early part of the tournament would be
crucial because it would give an opportunity to all the teams to
get used to the conditions and find the right combinations.


"The early part of the tournament is about testing the form of
your players. It is about testing the conditions and getting used
to them. As the tournament goes on, the teams might start looking
at different things," he said.


Dravid was not worried over the Caribbean pitches, saying his
team had the flexibility to adjust to any condition.


"Everyone is telling me that pitches will be low and slow in the
Caribbean, but no-one really knows. We just have to adapt to
whatever conditions we are playing in," said the Indian skipper.


"Each island is probably going to be different. The good thing
about us is that we have got flexiblility in the team and quality
in all the departments.


"We can adapt and play according to what the wicket is like and
what the opposition is like. But at the end of the day, it's
really about people who play and put up critical performances."

