

UN atomic chief Mohamed ElBaradei said Friday that he hoped an
April 13 deadline could be met for starting to dismantle North
Korea's nuclear weapons program despite the current stalemate.


ElBaradei told reporters upon returning to Vienna from visits to
Pyongyang and Beijing that he thought the North Koreans "still
would like to see that deadline respected and we still hope to do
it by April 13."


A pro-Pyongyang newspaper on Friday hailed US moves to resolve
financial sanctions against North Korea as a "landmark event",
raising hopes for progress in long-running disarmament talks.


North Korea has yet to give an official response to the US
Treasury's announcement on Wednesday that it had cleared the way
for the release of about 25 million dollars of North Korean funds
frozen in a Macau bank.


However a column in the Japan-based Chosun Sinbo gave the first
hint that North Korea may accept the US deal and proceed with a
six-nation accord signed last month that would see it begin
dismantling its nuclear programme.


The chief US envoy on North Korea, Christopher Hill, insisted
earlier Friday in Beijing that the United States had effectively
ended the dispute with its sanctions-busting strategy.


"I think they (the North Koreans) want assurances that the
financial issue is resolved," Hill told reporters.


"Frankly I think it has been resolved. We have already resolved
it pursuant to our obligations."


ElBaradei, director general of the International Atomic Energy
Agency, said: "If the financial sanctions are over, then we
expect the DPRK to invite us to work out the modalities of
monitoring and verification" of North Korea's deal to close and
seal its Yongbyon plutonium-producing reactor by April 13.


That would be 60 days after the six-party agreement reached in
Beijing on February 13.


ElBaradei, who visited North Korea Tuesday and Wednesday, said he
would not have to go back, just IAEA technical staff to work out
the details.


He hinted that there would not yet be a meeting of the IAEA's
35-nation board of governors to authorize agency inspections in
North Korea.


He said there would be a board meeting "when we are ready" and
that IAEA inspectors were in any case on standby to go
immediately if there is a breakthrough.


A diplomat close to the IAEA confirmed that a special board
meeting was not scheduled.


The diplomat said the inspectors must first be invited back, once
Pyongyang accepts that the financial sanctions issue is resolved,
and that a board meeting would then authorize the inspectors'
mission.


ElBaradei said: "It's up to them. The earlier they invite us, the
more possible that we meet the deadline."


ElBaradei had emerged Wednesday from his landmark visit to
Pyongyang saying North Korea had told him it was committed to
disarmament as long as the financial sanctions issue was
resolved.


It was UN atomic chief's first trip to North Korea since IAEA
inspectors were thrown out of the country in December 2002.


North Korea withdrew from the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
(NPT) in January 2003. The IAEA is responsible for verifying the
NPT.


North Korea conducted its first atomic test in October last year.
It is believed to have several plutonium bombs.


Under the February 13 accord, North Korea has 60 days to close
down its main Yongbyon nuclear facility in exchange for 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel and diplomatic concessions.


North Korea would eventually receive the equivalent of one
million tonnes of fuel aid if it completely disbanded its nuclear
weapons programme.


South Korean Defence Minister Kim Jang-soo expressed "scepticism"
over the North Korean nuclear deal, said his visiting French
counterpart Michele Alliot-Marie after a meeting in Seoul Friday.


A new series of six-nation talks on North Korea's nuclear
programme is due to start on Monday in the Chinese capital.

