

Former champ Daniela Hantuchova set up a finals showdown with
second seed Svetlana Kuznetsova, while China's Li Na suffered a
semi-final defeat at the Pacific Life Open on Friday.


Hantuchova, the lone former women's champion remaining, defeated
Li 7-5, 4-6, 6-1 in the semis of the 5.3 million dollar ATP/WTA
hardcourt tournament.


This marks the first final of the year for Hantuchova who made a
name for herself by capturing the 2002 Indian Wells title.


"There is definitely something very special about this place for
me," Hantuchova said. "It is a fantastic feeling to be back on
the court and in the finals once again."


Hantuchova will play Russia's Kuznetsova in Saturday's final.
Kuznetsova defeated Sybille Bammer 6-7 (5/7), 6-4, 6-1 in a two
hour, 39 minute marathon semi-final on Friday.


Hantuchova got help in the final game from Li, who served up
consecutive double faults on the final two points in front of a
crowd of 4,000 at the main Indian Wells Tennis Garden stadium.


"I don't know why. I just couldn't serve in the court," Li said.


Li was trying to become the first Chinese to reach the finals of
a Tier 1 tournament. She also made the semis of the WTA Tier 1
Berlin tournament last year.


Li was pleased with her overall performance here and said she
plans to reward herself by going shopping at a nearby mall
Saturday.


"It is my second time to play Indian Wells and I got to the semi-
finals," Li said. "This will give me more confidence for my next
tournament in Miami.


"I want to go shopping tomorrow. A lot of Chinese girls went
yesterday and I want to buy a nice gift for myself because I
played in the semi-final here."


In 2004, Li became the first Chinese to win a WTA Tour title by
capturing the Guangzhou tournament in southern China.


On Friday, Hantuchova won 11 of 12 points to open the third set.
She broke Lee twice early in the set jumping out to a 4-0 lead.


Hantuchova had 15 winners and 31 unforced errors to Li's 30
winners and 53 unforced errors.


Li began the match by winning the first seven-straight points.
She found her form in the second set but then struggled with her
serve in the final set.


The temperatures in the Palm Springs area have been 10 degrees
Celsius above normal the past week. The high was expected to
reach 38C (101 Fahrenheit) on Friday.


"It was tough because it was so hot and conditions were very,
very difficult," Hantuchova said. "I felt like physically I was
feeling much better on the court."


Li said she plays mind games with herself to try and overcome the
heat.


"If I start thinking the weather was hot, so the weather was more
hot. Maybe next time I will just keep telling myself the weather
is cold," said Li.


Li has made a habit of fighting back from the brink of defeat in
her matches the past few weeks but the magic wasn't there on
Friday.


"My legs just felt so heavy," Li said. "I couldn't jump or hit a
big serve."


Li's ranking will improve this week from the No 17 she had going
into the event as she gets closer to cracking the top 10.


"Every player wants to be in the top 10. I will learn how to get
to the top 10," she said.


On Wednesday, top seed and defending champion Maria Sharapova and
third seed and former champion Martina Hingis were eliminated.


The draw was already missing big names Serena Williams, Amelie
Mauresmo and Justine Henin, who decided to skip this event.


On the men's side of the draw, Serbia's Novak Djokovic defeated
David Ferrer 6-3, 6-4 in the quarter-finals on Friday.


Djokovic moves to the semi-finals where he will play the winner
of an evening match between Briton Andy Murray and Tommy Haas, of
Germany.


"I won this match because I was fighting and I was physically
more ready than he is, more fit," Djokovic said. "It was really
hot, a hot day today. One of the positive things is to be
physically ready when you are playing on these kind of days."

