

Polluters releasing more than their share of the so-called
greenhouse gases responsible for global warming would be slapped
with fines under a plan unveiled Friday by opposition Liberals.


The plan -- which could come into effect under a Liberal
government from January 2008 if the party is returned to power --
would charge companies 20 Canadian dollars (17 US) per tonne of
carbon dioxide released in excess of the company's "carbon
budget" and jump to 30 dollars (25 US) in 2011.


"We cannot keep using our atmosphere as a dump," Liberal boss
Stephane Dion, as he presented the "pay as you pollute" plan.


Companies staying below their quotas could reap rewards by
selling their rights to pollute.


If Liberals are able to implement their plan, they would assign
each company its carbon budget, a portion of Canada's commitment
to meet the Kyoto Protocol target of six percent below 1990
emissions levels.


The Liberal plan targets the largest polluters, especially power
generation and the oil and gas industries, such as extractors of
oil from Canada's vast deposits of oil sands, which require
energy to separate the crude.


Liberals argued it would not be a tax.


"This is the strongest proposal for regulating industrial
greenhouse gas pollution made by any political party in Canada,"
said the Pembina Institute in a statement.


"It sets a new standard against which the (Conservative Stephen)
Harper government's soon-to-be-announced regulatory framework
must be judged," said Matthew Bramley of Pembina, a Canadian
environmental think tank.


The Conservative Harper government has said repeatedly that
Canada is not up to meeting the Kyoto commitments, but announced
early this year financing for environmental projects.


Dion said just 700 companies emitted 50 percent of Canada's
greenhouse gases.


As an incentive to innovate, companies could recover as much as
half of their fines to invest in their own projects to lower
emissions.


A layer of gases in Earth's upper atmosphere allows rays of
sunlight in but does not let heat out, as does the glass in a
greenhouse.


While the effect is necessary for life here, the release of
carbon and other gases into the atmosphere since the Industrial
Revolution has caused a steady rise in Earth's temperature, which
scientists fear could upset weather, sea levels and biological
balances.

