

As Tiger Woods floundered, Rocco Mediate rocketed up the
leaderboard Friday, seizing the halfway lead in the 5.5 million-
dollar Arnold Palmer International.


Mediate fired a 5-under-par 65 to surge past Woods and take a
three-shot lead with a 9-under total of 131.


Woods had held a share of the first-round lead after a 64 on
Thursday that he called his best round of 2007. But the world No.
1 stumbled to a 3-over 73 on Friday to fall six shots adrift.


Woods, who won this tournament four straight times from 2000, had
just two birdies and three bogeys to go with a stunning double-
bogey at the par-5 fifth hole.


"I broke 80," Woods said, shaking his head. "That's about the
only thing (that was positive). God-awful shots you've ever seen
in your life today. It was pathetic."


Woods said he was undone by too many missed fairways early, a
poor tee shot at the second that went over the green, and some
poor club selection.


"It was my takeaway, my downswing, back swing, club selection,
mind process. You name it I did everything wrong today," Woods
said.


Woods managed to steady himself a little coming in.


"At least I'm still in contention," he said. "At least I still
have a shot at it this weekend. Now I've got to clean it up big-
time."


Mediate followed his opening-round 66 with another crisp effort,
producing six birdies, including Nos. 1 and 2, and just one
bogey.


Britain's Paul Casey, who began the day tied for the lead, shot
an even-par 70 and was tied for second with John Rollins at 134.


Rollins matched Mediate's round with a bogey-free 65.


Spain's Sergio Garcia (69) was in a logjam at 135, tied with
Shaun Micheel, Ben Curtis, Canada's Stephen Ames and first-round
co-leader Vaughn Taylor.


South Africa's Trevor Immelman was amng a group of four players
on 136, while South African Retief Goosen joined Woods in a group
of six players at 137.


Mediate, who has refashioned his game in order to keep playing
after his back injury - a shattered disk - limited him to just 18
tour events last year, was delighted to see the results.


"Today was a huge day," said Mediate, who hit 13 of 14 fairways.
"But relearning this game at 44 as far as playing is kind of
hard. This is 'Rocky VI,' man. This is the sixth try. And I made
that decision last December. I said, 'Do I want it or don't I
want it?' "And I chose, 'Yes.'"


Mediate was leading the Masters last year when he wrenched his
back on the 63rd hole and finished with a final-round 80.


He said that disappointment made days like Friday even better.


"Especially at my age with what's happened," he said, "if you
don't think I'm going to enjoy the hell out of this stuff, you're
out of your mind."

