

Defending champions Australia are already looking beyond the
formality of dismissing the Netherlands on Sunday as the
countdown begins to their World Cup clash against South Africa.


Captain Ricky Ponting has one eye on the crucial match against
the world number one Proteas on March 24 which will decide who
tops Group A.


"We are ready for our next two matches and have planned well for
South Africa which I expect to be a real good contest," said
Ponting after his team saw South Africa crush the Netherlands by
221 runs at Warner Park on Friday.


South African batsman Herschelle Gibbs became the first man in
one-day cricket history to hit six sixes in an over when he
smashed five straight ones and one towards mid-wicket off hapless
leg-break bowler Daan van Bunge.


Gibbs finished with a 40-ball 72, Jacques Kallis hit an unbeaten
128, while Mark Boucher hit the fastest World Cup fifty off just
21 deliveries during his quickfire 75 not out as South Africa
mustered 353-3 in a shortened 40-over match.


But Ponting, who himself smashed five sixes in his 113 in
Australia's 334-6 in a 203-run win over Scotland on Wednesday,
was not surprised at the run riot.


"It doesn't actually surprise me that much. Gibbs's was a fairly
rare feat but having played out there the other day it's a pretty
small ground and it could have happened, not easily, but the way
some of the players are hitting the ball these days it doesn't
surprise me at all."


Ponting predicted a high-scoring match against South Africa.


"I think 350 is very much a par score out there, it's just so
small a ground. The straight boundaries are really small. I mis-
hit a few the other day to the top of the grandstand.


"If we bat first (against South Africa) then we are going to have
to make a really good score to be competitive," said Ponting
whose side has failed to defend big totals, including a world
record score of 434 against South Africa last year.


"That last match was a fitting end to a great series. I expect
the game to be a really good contest and we have special plans
for all of their guys."


"They are number-one ranked one-day team in the world now, so
they are doing lots of things right. We've got a good rivalry
with South Africa in Test and one-day cricket," said Ponting
whose team lost their world number one spot to Greame Smith's
side last month.


Australia are expected to be unchanged on Sunday after all-
rounder Andrew Symonds, recovering from arm sugery, was ruled
out.


The Netherlands, playing their third World Cup since 1996, will
be hard pressed to pick up pieces after their South African rout.


"It will be tough but we must cheer up and face Australia in the
next game," said Dutch skipper Luke van Troost.


"We were doing well until the tenth over of the South African
match but from their we lost our way. I would be happy if we
could repeat our first ten over performance and bat better."


Australia beat the Netherlands in their only previous World Cup
meeting by 75 runs in South Africa in 2003.

