

The Iraq war has "shattered America's image," the prime minister
of France told a US audience on Friday, emphasizing that no
country acting alone can impose a new world order.


The United States "remains the leading power" in the world and
the only nation with the "military strength, economic power,
capacity for technological innovation, and attractiveness of its
way of life" necessary to stay on top, said French Prime Minister
Dominique de Villepin.


But "the war in Iraq marked a turning point," he told students
and academics at Harvard University near Boston, Massachusetts.
"It shattered America's image. It undermined the image of the
West as a whole.


"It is time for the United States and Europe to regain together
the respect and admiration of other peoples," said de Villepin,
who presented France's objections and later its refusal to
participate in the Iraq war to the United Nations in 2003.


"None can impose a new world order on their own," he said,
advocating the establishment of a "true global governance."


"In this path toward a new world order, the United States, France
and Europe have more duties than others ... It is our duty to
work together," he said, adding that "Europe is the United
States's only global ally."


"The things that draw us together are stronger than the ones that
divide us. We share fundamental values: democracy, human rights,
the same concept of the role of the individual in society."


"It is up to us to build a partnership of equals. It is in
Europe's interest for the United States to be powerful yet open.
It is in the US's interest to have a Europe that isn't submissive
but strong and responsible. Europe is America's partner, not
America's rival," he said.


The United States must "better take into account the world's
realities," he said.


Its "true strength isn't its army" because "the modern form of
power is both influence and the ability to act together."


"There is no power in standing alone. There is only organized,
shared power," de Villepin said.


"And personally speaking, after having lived in the United States
and come to love your country, I want to tell you that America
remains a dream for many people throughout the world," he added.

