

George W. Bush will be remembered as the worst US president ever,
real estate mogul Donald Trump said Friday, adding that US
Senator Hillary Clinton could be Bush's White House successor.


"Bush is probably the worst president in the history of the
United States," Trump told CNN, lamenting the 2004 Democratic
failure to stop Bush's reelection.


"I just don't understand how they could have lost that election."


Trump added that Clinton, the junior senator from New York, would
likely be the Democratic pick for the November 2008 vote.


"I think she'll probably be the nominee," he said, and told CNN
she is ready to be commander in chief: "I think she is."


Trump inherited a real estate empire and added an airline,
casino, resorts, hotels, skyscrapers in New York, around the
world and named them after himself, turning his name into a sort
of brand.


He also owns a television show, "The Apprentice," in which he
appears, as well as the Miss Universe contest.


He calls Senator Barack Obama, the first black candidate to have
a competitive shot at the US presidency, "Young."


"It's a little bit soon. I think his time might come, but I think
it's too soon."


Should Trump's friend, Rudolph Giuliani, New York City mayor at
the time of the September 11, 2001 attacks take the Republican
nomination and face Clinton, Trump would have a tough time
deciding.


"I'm not going to make it (a decision) now, because there's no
reason to," he told CNN.


"They are two great candidates and I would make a decision."


As for Arizona Republican Senator John McCain, he said: "It
looked like he was going to walk into the nomination, and now
Rudy is doing so well in the polls that it's really amazing."


He chalked up McCain's slide in popularity to his solution to the
Iraq war. "Anybody that wants more troops going over to Iraq, I
think, can't win an election."


However, he reserved his harshest language for Bush's Iraq war.


"There's only one person you can blame, and that's our current
president," Trump told CNN.

