

A glamorous former CIA spy has accused the Bush administration of
maliciously blowing her cover, in an Iraq war political scandal
that has a top White House aide heading for jail.


Valerie Plame, 43, broke her silence over a drama clouding
President George W. Bush's second term, using a congressional
hearing Friday to accuse officials of exposing her to avenge her
diplomat husband's criticism of the drive to war.


"It was a terrible irony that administration officials were the
ones who destroyed my cover," said Plame, who portrayed herself
as an innocent victim of a political firestorm whipped up over
the 2003 invasion.


The blonde former intelligence officer, whose appearance drew a
paparazzi-style pack of photographers into the staid House of
Representatives committee room, also accused Bush aides of
tainting the intelligence services.


"I feel passionately as an intelligence professional about the
creeping insidious politicizing of our intelligence process,"
Plame said.


She told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee that
such actions could wreak lasting damage on America's crucial
intelligence capacity, which plays a key role in the "war on
terror."


"If our government cannot even protect my identity, future
foreign agents who might consider working with the Central
Intelligence Agency and providing needed intelligence would think
twice."


Plame was constrained by the details she could give in an open,
public hearing as even though she has retired from the CIA, she
is still bound by its restrictions on classified information.


As she spoke, a pink-garbed anti-war protestor edged into camera
range behind her, with a T-shirt reading "Impeach Bush Now."


Plame was at the center of the so-called CIA leak case which
erupted when her husband Joseph Wilson wrote a July 2003 opinion
piece in the New York Times criticizing Bush's case for war
against Iraq.


She contends White House officials then deliberately leaked her
name to the media, to ruin her career, and punish Wilson for his
actions.


"I felt like I had been hit in the gut. It (my career) was over
in an instant," she said, of the moment when she saw her name
emblazoned across a newspaper column.


"I immediately thought of my family's safety, the agents,
networks that I had worked with" said Plame, saying she had made
many secret foreign intelligence missions on behalf of the CIA.


She also insisted the top White House political adviser was
behind the controversy, and blamed Bush for refusing to fire
anyone who leaked.


"Karl Rove clearly was involved in the leaking of my name, and he
still carries a security clearance to this day," Plame argued.


The incident led to the appointment of a special prosecutor who
probed whether administration officials had broken the law by
knowingly outing a covert intelligence agent.


No charges were laid under that statute, but prosecutor Patrick
Fitzgerald did charge Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief
of staff I. Lewis 'Scooter' Libby with perjury and obstruction of
justice over the affair.


After a trial which lifted the lid on the frenzied White House in
the months leading up to the invasion of Iraq, Libby was
convicted earlier this month, and faces up to 25 years in prison.


Sentencing is set for June 5, though federal guidelines suggest
he will face a much shorter sentence.


Wilson, a former US ambassador to Gabon, was sent to Niger in
February 2002 to investigate claims Saddam tried to buy uranium
for nuclear bombs but concluded it was doubtful such transfers
took place.


The claim still found its way into Bush's annual state of the
union address a year later, prompting Wilson to stew for six
months before unleashing the Times article, in which he warned
top US officials may have ignored data which contradicted the
case for war.


On July 7, 2003, the White House admitted the Niger claim rested
on flawed intelligence, and should never have made it into the
speech.


Conservative newspaper columnist Robert Novak then reported that
"two senior administration officials" told him that Plame was a
CIA operative working on weapons of mass destruction and had
suggested Wilson's mission.

