

Iraqi Vice President Adel Abdel Mahdi on Friday laid out an
ambitious five-year plan to revive his war-torn country's economy
and urged the world community to respond with pledges of aid and
debt relief.


Mahdi co-chaired a UN-sponsored conference on the International
Compact with Iraq (ICI), a joint initiative with the world body
established last July with the support of the World Bank.


Nearly 90 countries, including Iran and Syria, and several
multilateral institutions attended the parley to review Iraq's
progress in carrying out political, security and economic reforms
in exchange for international aid and debt relief.


"We are very satisfied with the results of today's conference and
we are looking forward to taking Iraq out of its crisis with the
help of the international community," Mahdi told a press
conference after the meeting.


The United States, which spearheaded the war that ousted Saddam
Hussein in Iraq four years ago and still maintains 142,000 troops
in the country, strongly backs the ICI initiative as part of
efforts to stabilize Iraq.


"Today was not a pledging conference. This is a Compact (in
which) the Iraqis lay out what they are prepared to do and the
international community lays out what they are prepared to do,"
said US Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert Kimmit after the
meeting.


"The Iraqis have done their part. The question is now what will
the international community do" to help Iraq return to "self-
sufficiency and financial independence", he added.


Kimmit said the co-chairs of Friday's meeting -- Mahdi and UN
chief Ban Ki- moon's new ICI special adviser Ibrahim Gambari
planned to schedule a meeting no later than the end of April "at
which the international community would give its response to the
document laid out today." The venue for that meeting has yet to
be fixed.


Kimmit said the Compact lays out a joint monitoring mechanism at
which Iraqi government reforms "will be sequenced and evaluated"
against established benchmarks.


"The Iraqis already are performing quite well under another set
of benchmarks, that is the International Monetary Fund standby
agreement, so there is every reason to believe that they will
perform well under this," he added.


One such benchmark is Iraq's draft oil law approved last month
and due to be submitted to parliament for approval soon. The
draft law aims to distribute revenues from crude oil exports
equitably across Iraq's 18 provinces and open the sector to
foreign investors.


Under the Compact, Iraq commits itself to treating all of its
ethnic groups fairly and equally sharing its oil resources
through a transparent energy sector. It also vows to fight
corruption and keep to rigorous budgets.


The UN meanwhile commits itself to helping Iraq achieve these
goals through its Baghdad mission and other international
agencies based there.


"The United Nations will make every effort to ensure that the
international community remains engaged in this process," Ban
said in his opening statement to the conference. "The challenges
ahead are immense. I am sure you will agree that we cannot leave
Iraq on its own to cope with them.


Friday's meeting here was part of a concerted effort to stabilize
the US-backed Baghdad government and end sectarian and insurgent
violence in Iraq.


A first meeting dubbed an Iraq neighbors conference but which
also included diplomats from other Arab states and the five
permanent UN Security Council members -- Britain, China, France,
Russia and the US -- was held March 10 in Baghdad.


Thursday, US officials said another international conference on
Iraq that will see US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sit
alongside her Iranian and Syrian counterparts could be held as
early as April 1.


The venue for that meeting has not yet been made public, but the
United States has said it would like to have it in Istanbul.

