

The Palestinian parliament was set to vote in a long-awaited
unity government Saturday amid hopes it will end a turbulent year
of deadly power struggles, international isolation and economic
hardship.


Lawmakers were expected to give near-unanimous approval to the
broad-based cabinet, which unites the rival Fatah and Hamas
factions, in a parliamentary session due to open at 11 am (0900
GMT).


The vote was to follow a speech by prime minister designate
Ismail Haniya in which the Hamas leader was to present the
incoming government and its programme to MPs. President Mahmud
Abbas was also expected to give a brief address.


Haniya's speech will be closely followed by Israel and the West
for clues to the new government's position on issues key to
restarting peace talks and resuming much needed Western aid to
the cash-strapped Palestinian Authority.


Israel has already denounced the unity government and called on
the international community to maintain the boycott it adopted
last year after the Islamists of Hamas took power.


The so-called Quartet of major players in the peace process --
the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United
States -- has been calling on the new government to renounce
violence and recognize Israel and past peace deals for the flow
of aid to resume.


The European Union and the United States have both given the
unity cabinet a guarded welcome, adopting a wait-and-see
approach.


"We will wait until the government is actually in place and we
have an understanding of what their platform will be before we
make any final judgements about it," US State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said Thursday.


France and Russia have distanced themselves from the Quartet
demands and indicated a greater willingness to work with the
incoming Palestinian government.


Hamas will take 12 of the 25 portfolios in the coalition cabinet,
while Abbas's Fatah faction will take six. Seven ministries,
including the powerful finance, foreign affairs and interior
posts, will go to independents and smaller factions.


The Palestinians hope the new government will usher in an era of
calm and economic prosperity after a year of bloodshed and
boycott.


Lawlessness and factional violence have ravaged Gaza in the past
12 months while in the West Bank strikes by public employees over
wage arrears have brought government services to a standstill.


"Big challenges lie in front of this government," the spokesman
for the outgoing Hamas-led government Ghazi Hamad told AFP on
Saturday. "The path is not lined with flowers, but there is a
commitment to progress now."


The east Jerusalem daily Al-Quds hailed the new government Friday
as a sign that the Palestinians had "passed the stage of barbaric
fighting," while shopkeepers in Gaza's teeming refugee camps
voiced rare optimism.

