

"March Madness", the annual ritual in which office workers,
students and even politicians go haywire over US college
basketball, has gripped America with fans betting millions of
dollars on their favorite teams.


"We're like kids, it's Christmas," said Andy Ahlberg, seated with
a horde of other fans at "Fast Eddies", a sports bar in the heart
of the US capital, to watch the first match of the University of
Maryland team on Thursday.


"You too, you're on sick leave?" he joked with a colleague.


The games involve 66 teams from all over the country who are
vying to become college basketball's NCAA champion and who will
be playing for almost three weeks in 13 cities. The games began
March 15 and end April 2.


Like millions of other Americans, Andy Ahlberg, a government
employee, has placed two 10-dollar bets and is banking on the
Florida Gators team to claim the championship again this year.


According to the sports site Pregame.com, seven out of 10
Americans in 2006 placed bets on the games.


"About three billion dollars are bet during the whole March
Madness," Peter St Cyr, a spokesman for the web site, told AFP.
"This is more than the Superbowl which is a single day event."


Even politicians have joined the frenzy, with Republican
presidential hopeful John McCain urging his supporters on his
website to bet on the matches and become eligible to win a McCain
2008 fleece jacket, hat or pin for "your prognostication
prowess".


The US television network CBS, which has paid six billion dollars
to broadcast the matches through 2014, said it expects at least
128 million viewers to tune in.


That's not counting the millions others who will be following the
games on Internet, with CBS doubling the bandwidth capacity for
the online player that provides live streaming video of the games
and setting up a "virtual waiting room".


In 2006, the site attracted five million visitors, said Alex
Riethmiller, of CBS Sportline.


The Internet video streams allow employees nationwide to watch
the games at their workplace, especially the first two days, when
the matches take place non- stop between noon and midnight.


According to a study by Chicago-based consulting firm Challenger,
Gray and Christmas, "March Madness" could exceed 1.2 billion
dollars in lost productivity among American businesses.


But despite the potential impact on productivity Challenger said
a survey of 100 human resources executives found that only six
percent of companies plan to take steps to prevent workers from
accessing "March Madness" websites.


CBS, meanwhile, has set up a "boss button" on its website to
protect basketball fans from being caught watching the games at
work.


"It's somewhat to be taken lightly," Riethmiller said. "It's kind
of a joke.


"When you hit the boss button, a financial spreadsheet pops up
and the audio is muted," he added. "So it's made to appear like
you are working."

