

Citing "hazy memories," the White House on Friday overhauled
explanations for a politically damaging late-2006 purge of
federal prosecutors that may cost Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales his job.


Even some of US President W. Bush's Republican allies have joined
Democrats in saying Gonzales should resign or be fired, while
others stopped short but have said they have lost confidence in
the attorney general.


With the pressure mounting, White House spokesman Tony Snow
cautiously downplayed speculation about Gonzales's future and
declined to say whether top Bush aides, including political guru
Karl Rove, would testify before Congress.


"There are ongoing conversations" with Democrats, who have warned
they are prepared to subpoena Rove and others to force them to
discuss the controversy under oath, said Snow.


Late Thursday, newly released electronic mail suggested that Rove
had played a bigger role in the mass firing than the White House
had claimed earlier -- leading Democrats to redouble their
efforts to secure White House testimony.


Last month, aides to Gonzales had insisted that the eight ousted
prosecutors had been fired for performance reasons and that then-
incoming White House counsel Harriet Miers had first raised the
idea -- quickly shot down -- of removing all 93 US Attorneys
after Bush's 2004 reelection.


Snow, who earlier this week passed along those claims, carefully
backed off during two briefings with reporters on Friday,
explaining that "at this juncture, people have hazy memories."


"I want to try to err on the side of caution by noting that Karl
(Rove) had a recollection that she (Miers) had mentioned it to
him, and that's really as far as we can go with it," said Snow.
"He thought it was a bad idea."


On the question of whether the firings were because of poor job
performance, Snow declared "I'm not going to be the fact witness"
but hinted that it would be enough to resist Bush policies "for
reasons of conscience or whatever."


"Loyalty to the President means doing your job and faithfully
carrying out the priorities of the administration," he said,
saying that it would be enough to disagree on "something like the
death penalty or pornography statutes."


Asked whether Bush might have ordered the firings, Snow said
"anything is possible" but emphasized "I don't think so" and went
on: "I want you to be clear here. Don't be dropping it at the
President's feet."


Critics have charged that some of them were fired for political
reasons, noting that one, Carol Lam in California, played a
central role in a major corruption case that led to a prison term
for a Republican congressman and may have led to the resignation
of a top CIA official.


Another was the target of complaints by Republican elected
officials that eventually reached Bush -- though he has denied
ordering the removal of any specific US attorneys.


White House officials deny any wrongdoing, noting that Bush
praised the investigation and conviction of the Republican
congressman, Randall "Duke" Cunningham.


Snow also brushed aside talk of Gonzales resigning and, when
asked Friday whether Bush would fire the attorney general,
carefully replied "I know of no such plan." He later said that
Gonzales's job was safe for the next two weeks.


The purge is not Gonzales's only headache: he also faces
controversies tied to the revelations that the FBI abused its
power to get Americans' personal information and a news report
accusing him of helping to quash an internal probe that might
have targeted him.


The National Journal publication that covers US politics said
Gonzales advised Bush to shut down the investigation into the
warrantless wiretapping program the president ordered after the
September 11 terrorist attacks at a time when Gonzales knew his
own conduct might come under scrutiny.

