

The Pentagon is facing mounting criticism over the awarding of
several large contracts because of deficiencies and
irregularities in the procurement of new age military machines.


Thursday, the US Government Accountability Office, a
congressional agency responsible for keeping tabs on federal
spending, revealed delays in developing an advanced combat Joint
Strike Fighter and costs had swollen 12 percent.


"Total JSF program acquisition costs (through 2027) have
increased by 31.6 billion dollars," the GAO said.


Wednesday, the US Coast Guard withdrew a contract from Lockheed
Martin and Northrop Gumma to steer the procurement of 12 patrol
boats, saying it could better "ensure full and open competition,
and control costs" by doing the work in-house.


The 24-billion dollar "Deepwater" project launched after the
September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States was to provide
for progressive modernization and recapitalization of the aging
Coast Guard fleet over 25 years.


In December, the New York Times exposed several deficiencies in
the program, launched in June 2002 to better protect America's
coasts against possible terrorist attacks. They included hull
cracks, engine breakdowns, design flaws and electronic equipment
that was not sufficiently waterproofed.


The construction of the high-speed vessel was already scrapped
once because they were deemed too heavy, guzzled too much fuel
and problems with their propulsion systems arose, the newspaper
said.


"You will see changes shortly in the Coast Guard in our
acquisition organization," fleet commander Admiral Thad Allen had
predicted then. "It will be significantly different than we have
done in the past."


Late February, doubt was coast over another major military
purchase worth 10 billion dollars -- Boeing's construction of 141
combat search and rescue helicopters (CSAR) for the US Air Force.


The GAO recognized that Boeing competitors Sikorsky (United
Technologies) and Lockheed Martin had valid concerns about the
current bidding process.


"We recommend that the Air Force amend the solicitation to
clarify its intent with respect to evaluation of Operations and
Support costs, reopen discussions with offerors consistent with
our conclusions above, and then request revised proposals," the
GAO said.


But Boeing chief executive Jim McNerney told the Financial Times
in March: "I do not think there will be a full-blown re-compete
on the helicopter competition."


These complications come at the worst time for the Air Force.


Already facing a poor rating over contracts granted to Boeing for
the renewal of its supply aircrafts, then canceled, the Air Force
is under intense scrutiny by Congress.


The House Armed Services Committee held hearings on March 7 on
the Air Force's procurement plans, some accusing the Pentagon of
rigging the bidding process for supply planes to favor Boeing
over consortium EADS/Northrop.

