

Apple Inc. continued its effort to get out of a stock option
backdating quagmire on Friday, offering to pay any extra taxes
incurred by employees and let them correct option "strike" dates.


Apple outlined the offer in a US Securities and Exchange
Commission filing that estimated the cost of the plan would be
67,000 dollars.


Fewer than 100 employees could be subject to additional income
taxes due to exercising misdated stock options since 2005,
according to Apple spokesman Steve Dowling.


Apple will also let employees with unsold options correct strike
dates, days used to determine the price at which they can buy
stock, and pay the workers for any loss of value, according to
the filing.


"If they still hold the option, we will adjust the stock price
and make up the difference in cash," Dowling told AFP. "If they
have already exercised, we are paying the extra taxes on their
behalf."


Because of Internal Revenue Service rules, the offer does not
apply to Apple officers such as chief executive Steve Jobs. Jobs
voluntarily cancelled his outstanding stock options, according to
Apple.


Jobs has been questioned by US federal investigators as part of a
probe into the granting of stock option awards at the Cupertino,
California-company which makes Macintosh computers and the best-
selling iPod digital music players.


Apple has said that Jobs was aware of irregular backdating of
stock options for some executives, but that he did not personally
benefit from the awards.


Other technology firms, including McAfee and CNET, have also been
roiled by the wide-ranging federal probe into the granting of
stock options at over 100 companies.


The backdating of stock options is not illegal itself. But it is
improper to manipulate the date on which stock options are
awarded, or to grant such rewards without disclosing them to
shareholders in security filings.


Executives could reap bigger rewards cashing in stock options if
the date on which they were granted is manipulated to when a
company's share price was at its lowest.


Following an internal review overseen by former US vice president
Al Gore, Apple said that it would account for extra non-cash
stock-based compensation expenses of 84 million dollars, dating
to 2004.

