

A dispute over fees for foreign defence counsel to Cambodia's
Khmer Rouge tribunal should be resolved within weeks and will not
sink the long-stalled genocide trials, the court's chief lawyer
said Saturday.


"We will hopefully have this resolved within a few weeks," said
Rupert Skilbeck, head of the UN-backed tribunal's defence office
who has been asked to meet with Cambodian Bar Association
officials to discuss the issue.


"I'm pretty confident we can find a solution," he told AFP.


Cambodia's Bar, which must approve all foreign defence counsel,
is demanding that international lawyers wishing to participate in
the trials pay fees amounting to some 4,900 dollars a year.


But international judges to the tribunal said Friday that if the
Bar did not drop these demands, the adoption of internal tribunal
rules that are necessary for the trials to go forward was in
question.


In a statement released after 10 days of talks on the rules, the
judges said a plenary at the end of April during which the rules
would be formally approved "will be possible only if a
satisfactory resolution of this issue is reached".


"In order to find a solution that is acceptable to all parties so
that the plenary can proceed, the (Bar) is invited to reconsider
its position as soon as possible," the judges added.


At the same meeting, foreign and Cambodian jurists said they did
come to an agreement on the procedures governing the tribunal,
"although some fine tuning remains to be done."


The role of foreign defence counsel has been the main obstacle at
previous failed rules talks in November and January, and concerns
remain that the fees would dissuade many international lawyers
from participating in the tribunal.


"The fees expressed are quite considerable ... and the concern is
that lawyers won't pay them, limiting the choice of lawyers for
defendants," Skilbeck said.


But Bar Association president Ky Tech said Friday the fees were
merely meant to bring the pay of Cambodian defence attorneys up
to the same level expected for foreign counsel.


After nearly a decade of tough negotiations and many setbacks,
the first trials of former Khmer Rouge leaders were expected this
year.


But repeated delays mean trials will not likely start until early
2008, officials say.


Rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift trials
amid concerns that aging Khmer Rouge leaders will die before
being brought to justice for one of the worst genocides of the
20th century.


So far, only one possible defendant is on custody.


The only other person arrested for crimes committed during the
Khmer Rouge's 1975-79 rule, military commander Ta Mok, died in
prison last July. Several others live freely in Cambodia.


Up to two million people died of overwork, starvation and
execution under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.

