

Two US senators who witnessed the questioning of the suspected
mastermind of the September 11 attacks have urged officials to
investigate his allegations of being badly treated.


Democratic Senator Carl Levin and his Republican colleague
Lindsay Graham revealed in a joint statement that they were
allowed to watch a hearing for Khaled Sheikh Mohammed at the US
military base in Guantanamo Bay via a video link in an adjoining
room.


Mohammed confessed to 31 acts of terror or plots including the
September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, according to a
transcript of the hearing released by the Pentagon this week.


The senators agreed the transcript of the proceedings, which
lasted more than an hour on Saturday, March 10, was accurate.


And they confirmed that Mohammed, who has no right to a lawyer
and was represented by a military officer, had handed the panel a
written statement "alleging mistreatment during his captivity
prior to arriving at Guantanamo."


This statement has been censored and was not released along with
the transcript of his hearing.


"The panel said the allegations will be submitted to appropriate
authorities. Allegations of prisoner mistreatment must be taken
seriously and properly investigated. To do otherwise would
reflect poorly on our nation," the lawmakers said in a joint
statement.


They also agreed that a hearing at which the detainee admits the
allegations against him was not "the true test" of a process
which would be in "a case in which the detainee disputes those
allegations."


Mohammed, thought to be the number three leader of the Al-Qaeda
network, told the panel that he had planned the September 11,
2001 attacks from "A to Z".


He also claimed to have been behind a host of other attacks and
plots, most of which were never realized, such as assassination
attempts on former US presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton,
and the late Pope John Paul II.


He also said he had personally beheaded US journalist Daniel
Pearl, who was abducted in January 2002 in the southern Pakistani
city of Karachi and then killed.


"It was apparent that Khaled Sheikh Mohammed views himself as a
warrior, motivated by religious teachings, and seeks his place in
history," the senators said.


They added they would "continue to review the process and will
explore possible ways to improve this process through
congressional action."


Mohammed has been held in controversial circumstances, most of
the time in complete secrecy, since his capture in Pakistan in
2003. He has no access to a lawyer and allegations have been made
that he was tortured while in US custody.


Human Rights Watch called Thursday for the United States to
release Mohammed's separate statement in which he claims to have
been tortured while held by the CIA.


No media or human rights monitors were allowed to watch the
hearing.

