

The United States protested a raid Friday by Kyrgyzstan security
forces on a printer of opposition newspapers hours after clashes
between police and demonstrators in the Central Asian nation.


The State Department said agents seized all copies of several
opposition newspapers being printed by a media center set up by
the US-based non- governmental organization Freedom House.


"The Kyrgyz government has interfered with the fundamental right
of citizens to obtain information through an independent press,"
department spokesman Sean McCormack said in a written statement.


McCormack called the raid an "act of censorship" and deemed the
move "disappointing" given the Kyrgyz government's past
declarations of support for freedom of the press.


"The United States calls on the government to respect the right
of the media to report and publish information and opinions on
recent events without interference," he said.


Freedom House sent a letter to US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice earlier Friday appealing for help following the pre-dawn
raid on its Media Support Center Foundation in the Kyrgyz
capital, Bishkek.


"The security officers' visit to the printing press this morning
and the confiscation of independent newspapers may be part of a
larger -- and increasing -- crackdown on opposition voices
throughout Kyrgyzstan," Freedom House executive director Jennifer
Windsor wrote to Rice.


Windsor said 30 armed security officers took part in the raid,
confiscating all copies of two Kyrgyz-language papers, Agym and
Kyrgyz Rukhu, both of which have been critical of the government
and had been reporting on a series of opposition demonstrations
held in Bishkek since April 11.


The raid came hours after dozens of people were injured in
clashes between police and thousands of demonstrators who were
throwing rocks and bottles at the presidential palace.


The ex-Soviet state, strategically located on China's western
edge and host to US and Russian airbases, has experienced regular
demonstrations and unrest since the 2005 ouster of former
president Askar Akayev in an uprising.


Protestors accuse the current President Kurmanbek Bakiyev, who
came to power promising democratic and economic reforms, of
running a corrupt administration and failing to live up to his
pledges.

