

The hottest new attraction in the throbbing heart of London
opened its doors this week: Amora -- The Academy of Sex and
Relationships, dedicated to looking at love in a new light.


Stereotypical Britons may be all stiff upper lips and cucumber
sandwiches rather than sexually open, passionate lovers, but this
visitor attraction promises to get them out of their shells.


"We consciously differentiate ourselves from a museum: we are
about sex today and tomorrow, not in the past," Amora's founder
and chairman Johan Rizki told AFP.


"The Amsterdam sex museum is sleazy; New York's is rather
boring," added the Frenchman, New Yorker and Harvard Business
School graduate.


Nestled between Leicester Square and the famous electronic
billboards of Piccadilly Circus, Amora is a world away from the
busy London streets surrounding it.


Visitors descend the stairs to a backdrop of seductive whispers
from the red walls and are offered an aphrodisiac cocktail on
entry.


Three years in the making, Amora uses visuals, interactive
displays and sound to explore and explain relationships and
sexual behaviour.


There are touch screens, hands-on exhibits -- including dildos,
model vaginas, and fake breasts and testicles to show how to
check for potentially dangerous lumps -- as well as video
screens, hand-held audio guides, life-size models, computer
animations and wall displays to educate and excite once inside.


Visitors discover seven zones blending knowledge with
entertainment, covering aspects of sexual relationships including
the chemistry of dating, erogenous zones, fantasies, techniques
and sexual health.


"My idea was to create somewhere for talking about sex, but in a
very fun, interesting, up-to-date way," said Rizki.


"No-one before has ever brought love into a physical space where
it is accessible to people. We have sex therapists where people
can go and ask questions and there are workshops and academics
host debates," said Rizki, touting the venue as "the most emotive
visitor attraction in London."


All the displays are penned by one of 30 experts -- including
academics, medical doctors, relationship councillors,
psychologists and sex therapists -- and come with a safe sex
message.


Inside the Sexplorium section, a young pair with their arms
around each other watch a video clip on using sex furniture. In
the Fantasy and Fetish zone, a laughing couple test their
strength on the spankometer.


Londoners Chloe and Hannah, both 18, rushed to the academy. "We
saw it on television and thought we'd come down. We like doing
different things," Chloe told AFP.


Hannah -- who like her friend preferred not to give her last name
-- found some of the plaster casts "eye-popping."


A young male visitor in shorts said: "For me it's very important
that young people have all the information they need about sex,
so they can decide."


Amora is intended to be a hub for sex education and
enlightenment. Visitors become part of its Internet community and
an exhibition will tour Britain.


School parties have already asked to visit, Rizki said, and will
be able to explore the health section -- complete with its gory
pictures of sexual disease sufferers -- the gallery-cum-seminar
room and the library.


Rizki, who made his wealth in investment banking and hedge funds,
said he recruited investors strictly from the finance and health
sectors -- deliberately ruling out those from the pornography
industry.


"My first drive is making the world a sexier place and helping
people pick up a few tips and tricks that can make a difference
to their lives," the investor said.


"I've always been attracted by 'how-to' things."


But, critics might ask, how will the seven-million-pound (14
-million-dollar, 10 -million-euro) academy ultimately go down in
the the land of make tea, not love?


"In Britain, there is a desire to learn, and to learn about love.
Shops like Ann Summers (a well-known sex toy and lingerie
shopping chain) and broadcasters like Channel Four here have
brought sex into the mainstream, using down-to-earth language,"
said Rizki.


"If it can be timely somewhere, it can be timely here.


"People are attracted to things around sex. The British public is
a lot smarter than the way it has been portrayed."


Not everyone is completely convinced.


"One problem is that we've glamourised sex to the extent that
ordinary people feel uncomfortable when they don't live up to
their imagination," said Kaye Wellings of the London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.


"If the sex academy does that it's a shame," she told The
Guardian.


"We talk about love in an entertaining way," Rizki said. "There
are no taboos. We don't take a stand, but we ask you, is it for
you?"


There are plans to open an Amora in Paris, Germany and the United
States.


Amora costs 12 pounds (24 dollars, 18 euros) before 5:00 pm and
15 pounds from then on until midnight, seven days a week.
Students and the elderly get a discount.

