

The Queensland Reds recorded only their second win of a miserable
season when they beat the Central Cheetahs of South Africa 23-13
in their Super 14 rugby clash here Saturday.


The Reds had not won since they beat the Wellington Hurricanes in
the opening round of the Super 14 and were not expected to win
here.


But once they got in front, the Reds showed more passion than
their opponents and won convincingly in the end.


They scored two tries to one, with fullback Clinton Schifcofske
kicking two goals and three penalties to give Queensland some
hope of avoiding the Super 14 wooden spoon.


"It's been a long time between drinks," Reds coach Eddie Jones
said of the win.


"The first 40 minutes were pretty good, the second 40 minutes
were pretty scratchy, but the boys hung in there."


The Reds, playing more expansively than at any time this season,
found themselves in the unusual position of leading at halftime
when they went into the break 14-3 ahead.


The Cheetahs opened the scoring with a Meyer Bosman penalty after
13 minutes. But the Reds hit back three minutes later when lock
James Horwill crashed over following a neat interchange of passes
with flanker Mitchell Chapman and hooker Stephen Moore.


Schifcofske converted from out wide to put Queensland ahead 7-3
and they went further in front on the 30-minute mark when former
Wallaby Ben Tune, playing his last ever match on Australian soil,
took an intercept and raced 60 metres to touch down under the
posts and delight the home crowd.


The Cheetahs had numerous chances to close the gap but were let
down by poor options and terrible handling.


Skipper Juan Smith was the prime culprit, dropping the ball with
the line wide open on two occasions.


The Cheetahs hit back immediately after halftime when No.8
Kabamba Floors crashed over at the back of a rolling maul and got
to within four points on two occasions.


But the steady kicking of Schifcofske always gave the Reds some
breathing space and they never really looked like losing
throughout the second half.


Smith said the Cheetahs had only themselves to blame.


"I think we probably lost that game ourselves," he said.


"I myself had two crucial knock-ons on the wing, so I think we
didn't take our chances - there were a number of opportunities to
score tries."

