

Nigerians vote in landmark polls Saturday that should, for the
first time in the country's post-colonial history, see a power
transfer between two civilian presidents, amid widespread
insecurity and general disorganisation.


Just hours ahead of the election violence flared again in the
south of the world's sixth biggest oil exporter.


Gunfire broke out at a hotel in Yenagoa, Bayelsa state, where the
ruling party's vice presidential candidate was staying but he was
not hurt in the incident, a diplomatic source said.


It was unclear whether Goodluck Jonathan, who is also governor of
Bayelsa state, had been targeted. A high-ranking governent
official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Jonathan was
taken to a safe location.


The latest unrest comes a week after state governorship elections
triggered violence that left at least 21 people dead.


"I think there'll be trouble this time round but maybe less than
last weekend - the same sort of thing - stealing ballot boxes,
ballot stuffing," a security advisor told AFP.


Electoral commission chairman Maurice Iwu assured Nigerians that
the presidential vote would be better handled than the April 14
election.


"We have learnt good lessons from Saturday's poll ... the
election of 2007 will be concluded peacefully, freely and
fairly," Iwu said.


President Olusegun Obasanjo, a former general, acknowledged that
voting in the gubernatorial poll had been marred by fraud and
called for a crackdown on any attempts at vote rigging.


The election contest will be between three northerners: Umaru
Yar'Adua of the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP), Vice
President Atiku Abubakar, who defected from the PDP to run as
candidate for the opposition Action Congress (AC), and former
military ruler Muhammadu Buhari.


Yar'Adua was flown to Germany for emergency medical treatment in
March, but health concerns aside, he is seen as holding the edge
over his two main rivals.


Uncertainty over whether Abubakar would be allowed to compete was
lessened by an 11th-hour Supreme Court ruling earlier this week
that he could stand despite attempts by the electoral commission
to disqualify him over corruption allegations.


Even if fraud and violence are contained logistical problems
caused by last- minute political wrangling was expected to have
an impact on Saturday's vote.


Iwu delayed the start of the vote by two hours because ballot
papers printed in South Africa were late in arriving.


Voting will start at 10:00 am (0900 GMT) and end at 5:00 pm (1600
GMT).


It was not clear by Friday evening whether distribution of the
ballot papers had already started.


Iwu downplayed the importance of the delay. He said that even in
previous polls the commission had not send ballot papers out
early to individual polling stations "because of the lack of
confidence there is amongst us".


There was sporadic shooting with light weapons in Yenagoa, the
capital of the southern oil state of Bayelsa, Friday evening.


And armed men attacked a security vessel supporting a rig
drilling for Conoil at Brass in the same state.


But opposition parties who had threatened to boycott the poll
called off their threat at the last moment and the northern city
of Kano, the theatre of violence that left at least 38 dead
earlier in the week, was calm.


While ordinary Nigerians hope Saturday's election will help to
bring an end to the corruption that permeates society, Western
powers fear mainly for the stability of Africa's largest
democracy as a major oil source.


Shell, Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Total all operate in the west
African country and oil companies will be crossing their fingers
that existing unrest is not aggravated by political tensions
around the elections.


World oil prices rose slightly on Friday as traders fretted that
continued violence in the run-up to Nigeria's poll may disrupt
supplies from Africa's biggest crude-producing nation.

