

A barrage of mortar bombs crashed into the Somali capital for the
fourth day on Saturday as Ethiopian army units battled Islamist
insurgents after a night of sporadic fire, residents said.


The Ethiopian army fired mortar rounds and rockets from the
fortified presidential palace, Villa Somalia, in southern
Mogadishu at several insurgents hideouts, sparking a volley of
retaliatory fire from insurgents.


At least four people were killed, two others wounded and several
houses demolished after shells crashed into a residential belt in
Bakara district.


"A father and his three sons have been killed when two shells
landed in their house," said Ali Hassan Aden, a neighbour. Two
civilians were wounded, he added.


"The Ethiopian forces are shelling this neighbourhood. They want
to flatten it completely yet we do not see any insurgents here.
Other houses nearby have been totally demolished by shells, but
fortunately their owners had fled," he added.


Resident Nurto Hussein confirmed the death of the four and
expressed shock at the unrelenting clashes.


"We are really shocked by what is happening this morning. Our
neighbourhood has been relatively calm, but now we have been
targeted," added the visibly shaken Hussein, who is among the few
residents remaining in southern Mogadishu.


Islamist insurgents and some of Mogadishu's clan warlords have
vowed to oust the Ethiopians who helped the UN-backed
transitional government in January to expell the Somali Council
of Islamic Courts from the city last year.


The rivals exchanged heavy machinegun fire in the northern Fagah,
Ex-Control and Sanaa districts as well as areas around the main
Bakara market.


There was sporadic shelling in several districts overnight, but
casualty figures from the numerous battle fields could not be
established, residents said.


"The Ethiopian forces are shelling Bakara market, mortars are
landing everywhere and at this moment, we do not know what to
do," said Hashim Ali Mohamed, who lives in southern Mogadishu.


The United Nations said at least 321,000 people had fled the city
since February, one of the largest exodus from the seaside
capital since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


On Friday the United Nations warned of a humanitarian catastrophe
with corpses left rotting in the streets, where rival fighters
continued pounding each other with heavy artillery.


Local human rights groups said the latest fighting has killed at
least 113 civilians and wounded 229 others in three days of
clashes and warned that the toll could rise dramatically if a
truce was not reached.


Some 1,500 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda deployed in
Mogadishu since early March have failed to stem the surge in
violence. They have instead taken positions in the main airport,
sea port, presidential palace and a key access road to the
airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to deploy in Somalia to
help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed expand his tenuous grip on
the country.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon pressed for world support for African
peacekeepers but warned that pursuing military solutions in
Mogadishu was likely to be "counter- productive."


In a report released Friday, the UN chief warned that pursuing
"military solutions to stabilize Mogadishu is likely to be
counter-productive, creating long-term resentment among certain
clans and communities and damaging prospects for the
reconciliation process."


There is a need to "dissuade some regional actors from
contributing to instability and the proliferation of arms in
Somalia, while encouraging positive contribution from others,"
the report said.

