

A gunman killed a male hostage and himself at NASA's Johnson
Space Center Friday, just days after 33 people died in the
bloodiest school shooting in US history.


A female hostage was found bound with duct tape but otherwise
unharmed nearly four hours after the standoff began, police said.


Police believe the other hostage was killed at about 1:40 pm
(18:40 GMT) when a shot was fired inside a communications and
engineering building on the sprawling campus.


Building 44 was evacuated as the man barricaded himself inside a
room.


Police tried to negotiate with the man but all they heard from
the room was another gunshot.


When they rushed in the room they found the two men dead and the
woman bound at her hands and ankles.


"The suspect shot himself one time to the head. He appears to be
deceased at this time," Houston police captain Dwayne Ready said
at a press conference.


"Also on the same floor, there was one other hostage that was
shot. We believe that may have occurred in the early minutes of
this whole ordeal," he said.


Ready said the bound woman was being "looked at by our
paramedics."


NASA officials said mission operations were not interrupted by
the incident. An e-mail was immediately sent out to all employees
telling them to shelter in place.


Once officials realized the situation had been contained to the
one building, a second e-mail was sent out telling employees they
could go home whenever they wished.


"We have a standard set of security rules that do include random
vehicle searches," NASA spokeswoman Eileen Hawley said at the
press conference.


"Certainly, I would believe that our security and our senior
leadership is going to take a very close look at this incident,
and see if there was anything that we should have done or could
have done differently."


NASA chief Michael Griffin headed to the center after the
shooting, the space agency said.


The Johnson Space Center is home to the space shuttle's mission
control.


The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has several
facilities across the country, including the shuttle launch pad
at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida.


NASA was rocked earlier this year when an astronaut was accused
of driving hundreds for kilometers (miles) -- wearing a diaper to
avoid stopping during the trip from Houston to Florida -- to
kidnap a rival for the affection of a space shuttle pilot.


In March, Lisa Nowak, who flew on a shuttle mission last year and
was fired last month, pleaded not guilty to an attempted
kidnapping charge stemming from the incident.


Friday's shooting happened while the nation was mourning the 32
people shot dead by a South Korean student who killed himself
after his rampage at Virginia Tech University on Monday.

