

South Africa fast bowler Shaun Pollock may not have a five-wicket
haul in the ongoing World Cup, but is silently setting up his
team's victories with his discipline.


He has so far grabbed seven wickets in nine matches, but his
captain Graeme Smith is not complaining because the paceman has
been doing with the new ball what is expected of him.


Pollock creates pressure with his probing line and length and his
team-mates exploit it when batsmen try to take liberties against
them in a bid to step up the run-rate.


Pacemen Andre Nel, Andrew Hall and Charl Langeveldt each had a
five-wicket haul, but Pollock is the most economical of all as he
has conceded just 3.54 runs in an over.


Pollock has had two expensive wicketless matches in the
tournament when he gave away 83 runs in 10 overs against
defending champions Australia and 46 in eight against Sri Lanka,
but soon bounced back.


He will be keen to settle a score or two with Australia in the
semi-final at St Lucia on April 25, especially after having done
well in his last five Super Eights games.


Pollock has shed much of his pace of late, but not the ability to
test batsmen with subtle variations. He is the most difficult
bowler to score off in the powerplays with fielding restrictions.


The 33-year-old has plenty of reasons to deliver this time.


Pollock was the captain of the South African side which failed to
qualify for the Super Six stage at home in the 2003 World Cup and
this will be last chance to be part of the Cup-winning squad.


The fast bowler believes his team can win the Cup for the first
time since making their debut in 1992.


"I believe we have the ability. If we get it right on the day, we
have shown we can beat anyone," he said recently.


"I believe there is something special about this one. And it will
be extra special for me because it will be my last one."


Pollock lost his captaincy after his team's doomed Cup campaign
at home, but it turned to be a blessing in disguise as he has
been performing with freedom in recent years.


Many captains have faded away from the scene after their teams'
failures in the World Cup, but Pollock is one of the few skippers
who are still enjoying the game as players.


The ongoing tournament has already seen the retirements of
Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and his West Indian counterpart
Brian Lara following their teams' failures to qualify for the
semi-finals.


But Pollock, the first South African to bag 400 Test wickets, and
Sri Lankan Sanath Jayasuriya are the two who led their sides in
2003 but are still playing here as players and delivering.


The South African paceman, whose father and uncle also
represented the country with distinction, entered the World Cup
in excellent form as he was named man of the match against
Pakistan in a home one-day series.


Pollock made his Test debut against England in 1995 and played
his maiden one- day international the following year, forming a
formidable partnership with fast bowler Allan Donald.


He is not only a quality paceman, but also an effective batsman
down the order having scored more than 3,000 runs in both Tests
and one-dayers.


Pollock has so far taken 416 wickets in Tests and 380 in the
shorter version of the game.

