

A nailbiting suspense gripped France Saturday, as the country
prepared to vote in the first round of the presidential election
as the last polls showed the race is wide open.


Official campaigning stopped at midnight Friday, after which a
ban came into force preventing media from publishing opinion
polls and statements from the 12 candidates.


After a day meant for discussion among family and friends, voting
opens at 8:00 am (0600 GMT) Sunday morning and ends 12 hours
later, with normally reliable projections due out immediately.


The latest published surveys continued to show right-wing
favourite Nicolas Sarkozy in the lead. But the race for second
place was hotly contested by Socialist Segolene Royal, centrist
Francois Bayrou and far-right leader Jean- Marie Le Pen.


Only the two front-runners from the ballot qualify for a decisive
second round on May 6 -- the system having been devised so that
presidents are elected with more than half the vote.


The first votes were actually to be cast Saturday as citizens of
French overseas territories and expatriates in the Americas go to
the polls 24 hours ahead of mainland France.


The tiny French dependency of St Pierre and Miquelon -- a group
of islands off Canada's Atlantic coast with just 5,000 registered
voters -- was to kick off the election at 1000 GMT.


The four leading contenders held their last rallies on Thursday
evening, appealing to the third of the 44.5 million voters that
pollsters say are still undecided.


For the last month polls have consistently given a clear first
round lead to Sarkozy, a 52-year-old former interior minister who
heads the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


Royal, 53, has been in second place followed by Bayrou and Le Pen
-- but the gap separating them has varied widely and speculation
has centred on who will join Sarkozy in the second round.


Speaking late Friday in the northwestern city of Rouen, Bayrou --
who heads the small Union for French Democracy (UDF) -- repeated
his claim to be the only candidate capable of beating Sarkozy in
the run-off.


"This is very important, and very positive. It answers the
question that all those undecided voters are asking: what is the
most effective vote for ensuring things change," the 55-year-old
centrist politician said.


Royal, a former environment minister who wants to be France's
first woman president, would be under threat if large numbers of
left-wing voters switched tactically to Bayrou in order to keep
out Sarkozy, analysts said.


However she stands to gain from memories of the 2002 vote when
the Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin was beaten in round one by
Le Pen. Failure to qualify for a second time for round two would
be disastrous for the Socialist party, and this may encourage
left-wingers to stay with Royal.


A further uncertainty hangs over the level of support for Le Pen,
78, who says that his poll ratings underestimate his true vote.


Some newspapers issued endorsements for candidates Saturday, with
the pro- Communist daily L'Humanite urging a vote for Communist
Party's Marie-George Buffet.


The left-wing newspaper Liberation said that "what counts (in a
leader) are the spirit of decision and a feeling for the nation.
On both these counts, Segolene Royal has shown she easily is the
equal of her adversaries."


On Thursday the centre-left Le Monde urged the elctorate not to
vote for Bayrou, in order to give a clear left-right choice on
May 6.


France is choosing a successor to Jacques Chirac -- who has been
president since 1995 -- in an election seen as one of the most
exciting and important in recent times.


Also running in the election are three Trotskyites, a Green and
anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The other two are a
hunters' rights candidate and the Catholic nationalist Philippe
de Villiers.

