

While the worst-ever US school shooting has sparked another
national debate about controlling guns, in the tradition-bound
countryside around Virginia Tech, where 32 people were shot dead
this week, people see owning handguns as a necessary right.


Gun purchases, and especially requests for state permits to carry
concealed weapons, are up since the massacre Monday, according to
anecdotal reports from gun dealers and pawn shops.


"We even had a Virginia Tech professor apply for a concealed gun
permit," one pawnshop employee near Blacksburg said Friday, while
refusing to allow his name or his shop's name to be used.


And one woman who wouldn't be identified confided to an AFP
correspondent that she told her college-student daughter to carry
a gun to school.


Cho Seung-Hui took advantage of Virginia's lenient gun controls
to buy two guns even though he was not even a US citizen, only a
permanent resident, and despite having been once taken into
custody by police and ordered by a court in 2005 to seek
psychiatric treatment due to disturbing and threatening behavior.


While pro-gun control sentiment is strong in large, crime-
stricken US cities, in rural Virginia, where many men grew up
hunting, most people think that more people carrying handguns
would keep crime down.


Indeed, Virginia has some of the most lax handgun purchase laws
in the country, so lenient that Cho could buy two pistols without
a license in just a two-month period.


The state requires licenses to carry a concealed handgun, but
those only require filling out a form, paying about 40 dollars,
and waiting a few weeks for the state to check one's criminal
background.


The result is Virginia has issued 135,000 concealed gun permits
in all, according to police, though there are restrictions on
carrying the guns into government buildings or bars.


"Gun control won't fix this," said Lyle Hartsock, a 1985 Virginia
Tech graduate who joined memorial services for the dead Friday,
who pointed out that the university officially bans guns from
campus.


"What if one of the girls had a 'carry' permit and dropped this
clown," he said, referring to Cho.


That is the point of many influential conservative radio
commentators. Neil Boortz, Sean Hannity and others have, since
the first news of the university massacre broke, even scolded the
students for not fighting back and said they need to carry guns.


Boortz, who is heard on some 150 stations around the country,
including one of Blacksburg's more popular AM band stations,
asked "why these students did so little to defend themselves?"


But not everyone in the southwest Virginia region believe the gun
laws are fine. "I don't think it would be a bad idea to be a
little stricter," said Angie Cook, who works in a hotel in nearby
Christiansburg.


She pointed to the case of two teenagers in the small area town
of Riner who were arrested and charged with conspiracy to commit
murder in March after they brought a revolver and ammunition to
high school and talked about shooting the principal.


Cook says half of her friends support tighter controls, but half
like the current easy laws.


Some want tighter controls to prevent people from carrying guns
onto campus -- like many urban high schools in the United States,
which force students to pass through metal detectors to go to
class.


But Virginia Tech student John Schwartz said that's not possible
on the sprawling campus, which has numerous entrances for cars,
scores of buildings and hundreds of doorways.


"Part of the beauty of this campus is that it is open," he said.


But he added, thinking of Cho, "It would be a help if mental
history would be an issue in handgun purchases."

