

The Otago Highlanders kept their faint Super 14 semi-final hopes
alive when they just held off a fast finishing New South Wales
Waratahs 26-25 here on Saturday.


Trailing by 20 points with 13 minutes remaining, the Waratahs
launched a spirited counterattack and scored three tries to
almost steal an unlikely win.


NSW fullback Peter Hewat had a chance to win the game with a
conversion from the sideline but he sent his kick just wide and
let the shell-shocked Highlanders off the hook.


"That was a terrible game to lose," Waratahs captain Rocky Elsom
said.


"We had a game plan, we wanted to attack and keep attacking, but
the pill was very slippery tonight and we dropped a lot of ball.


"But the boys kept doing it, and kept doing it and we came home,
but not quite enough to win it - it breaks your heart."


The close result seemed undeserved after the Waratahs spent the
first 65 minutes showing why they are second last on the Super 14
table.


Their scrum struggled, their line-out was a mess and their
backline looked completely off the pace as the Highlanders raced
away to score three tries in the first half and lead 20-6 at the
break.


The Waratahs were found out for a lack of pace out wide
throughout the first half as the Highlanders' backs cut their
opponents to ribbons.


They started the half chipping ahead to turn the NSW backs
around, then when the defenders dropped back slightly to cover
the kicks, the Highlanders ran at them at pace, creating gaps and
making ground with ease.


Their first try came from a chip kick ahead from fullback James
Wilson. Winger Viliame Waqaseduadua chased through and beat Lote
Tuqiri and Hewat to touch down.


NSW struck back with two penalties to Hewat as the Waratahs had
the lion's share of possession, but as soon as the Highlanders
got the ball they looked dangerous.


In the 31st minute they were awarded a free kick on the 22 and
from the quick tap flyhalf Nick Evans finished off a crisp
backline movement to cross out wide.


Four minutes later outside centre Jason Kawau strolled over under
the posts as the Waratahs' backline defence was again found
wanting.


Evans kicked two penalties at the start of the second half and
the game appeared heading for an easy Highlanders win when the
Waratahs struck back.


Exciting young scrumhalf Josh Holmes scored, then set up Hewat
for the first of his two tries.


Then with the clock ticking Hewitt regathered a chip ahead to
cross out wide and narrow the gap to one point.


Highlanders coach Gordon Cooper said his side had slipped off the
pace with 20 minutes to go and almost paid the penalty.


"They overpowered us in the defensive line towards the end. We
just did enough to win the game, but we made it hard for
ourselves," he said.

