

The family of the US campus killer broke their silence Friday to
share their devastation at the "horrible and senseless act" in
which the South Korean student killed 32 people and himself.


In a statement, Cho Seung-Hui's family, which is in hiding and
reportedly under police protection, said they were "deeply sorry"
for the massacre at Virginia Tech University and felt, "hopeless,
helpless and lost."


The shooter's sister, Cho Sun-Kyung, who works as a contractor at
the US State Department, said "We have always been a close,
peaceful and loving family. My brother was quiet and reserved,
yet struggled to fit in. We never could have envisioned that he
was capable of so much violence."


"On behalf of our family, we are so deeply sorry for the
devastation my brother has caused," she said of Monday's massacre
-- the deadliest US school shooting in history.


"No words can express our sadness that 32 innocent people lost
their lives this week in such a terrible, senseless tragedy," she
said. "We are heartbroken."


Listing the names of those killed, she said, "we pray for their
families and loved ones who are experiencing so much excruciating
grief."


"And we pray for those who were injured and for those whose lives
are changed forever because of what they witnessed and
experienced," she said.


"Each of these people had so much love, talent and gifts to
offer, and their lives were cut short by a horrible and senseless
act."


Early Monday, Cho Seung-Hui killed two people in a dormitory and,
more than two hours later, stormed another building and shot into
classrooms before turning his gun on himself.


South Korean news reports said Cho's family lived a tough life in
South Korea before they emigrated to the United States in 1992,
when Cho was only eight, in search of the American dream.


Their former landlord told Yonhap news agency that they lived in
a modest rented apartment in northern Seoul.


In Centreville, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, they live in a
three-story beige townhouse and run a dry cleaning business.


Cho Sun-Kyung said her family would "continue to cooperate fully"
with law enforcement, "to help authorities understand why these
senseless acts happened. We have many unanswered questions as
well."


"This is someone that I grew up with and loved. Now I feel like I
didn't know this person," she said.

