

Voting started in overseas territories Saturday for France's
hotly contested presidential election that heralds the transfer
of power to a new generation of political leaders.


With right winger Nicolas Sarkozy still leading socialist
Segolene Royal in final opinion polls before a campaign ban came
into effect, all 12 candidates are nervously waiting to see how
the millions of undecided voters cast their polls.


A day ahead of the vote in mainland France, the tiny islands of
Saint Pierre and Miquelon off Canada's Atlantic coast -- home to
just 5,000 registered voters -- kicked off the election in bright
sunshine and freezing temperatures.


Citizens of Guadeloupe, Martinique and French Guiana -- as well
as expatriates across the Americas -- were to follow during the
day.


In mainland France, official campaigning stopped at midnight
Friday when a ban came into force preventing media from
publishing opinion polls and statements from the 12 candidates.


After a day meant for reflection, polling booths open at 8:00 am
(0600 GMT) Sunday and close 12 hours later when the first
projections were due out.


The last published surveys continued to show right-wing favourite
Sarkozy in the lead. But the race for second place was hotly
contested by socialist Segolene Royal, centrist Francois Bayrou
and far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


The two front-runners from the ballot qualify for a decisive
second round on May 6 -- the system having been devised so that
presidents are elected with more than half the vote.


The four leading contenders held their last rallies on Thursday,
appealing to the third of the 44.5 million voters that pollsters
say are still undecided.


For the last month polls have consistently given a clear first
round lead to Sarkozy, a 52-year-old former interior minister who
heads the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


Royal, 53, has been in second place followed by Bayrou, 55, and
the 78 year-old Le Pen -- but the gap separating them has varied
widely and speculation has centred on who will join Sarkozy in
the second round.


Speaking late Friday in the northwestern city of Rouen, Bayrou --
who heads the small Union for French Democracy (UDF) -- repeated
his claim to be the only candidate capable of beating Sarkozy in
the run-off.


"This is very important, and very positive. It answers the
question that all those undecided voters are asking: what is the
most effective vote for ensuring things change," he said.


Royal, a former environment minister who wants to be France's
first woman president, would be under threat if large numbers of
left-wing voters switched tactically to Bayrou in order to keep
out Sarkozy, analysts said.


However she stands to gain from memories of the 2002 vote when
the Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin was beaten in round one by
Le Pen. Failure to qualify for a second time for round two would
be disastrous for the Socialist Party, and this may encourage
left-wingers to stay with Royal.


France is choosing a successor to Jacques Chirac -- who has been
president since 1995 -- in an election seen as one of the most
exciting and important in recent times.


All three main candidates come from a younger generation of
political leaders, and all claim to represent a radical break
from the past. All also describe France as a country in crisis,
thanks to massive debt, high unemployment, low income levels and
simmering discord in the riot-hit suburbs.


In Sarkozy and Royal, voters face a clear choice between a right-
wing programme based on free-market ideas and a left-winger
promising to safeguard the country's "social model".


Also running in the election are three Trotskyites, a Communist,
a Green and anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The other two
are a hunters' rights candidate and the Catholic nationalist
Philippe de Villiers.

