

Bangladesh may have lost their last World Cup match, but will
return home as an outfit that gained respect from their opponents
for their gutsy performances.


That they emerged the second-best side of the sub-continent after
Sri Lanka was a matter of pride for Habibul Bashar's Bangladeshis
who were not expected to go beyond the opening round.


Bangladesh exceeded expectations with a couple of big
performances to upstage sub-continental giants India and
Pakistan, who fell flat in the opening round itself after winning
just one game.


Their surprise wins over former champions India and top-ranked
South Africa meant they were never taken lightly by their
opponents.


However, as a sign of their maddening inconsistency, they then
lost to Ireland.


"We had some good days and we had some bad days, but we showed
what we were capable of when we qualified for the Super Eights,"
Bashar said after his team's 99-run defeat against the West
Indies here on Thursday.


"We can take a lot of positives from this tournament. We have
earned respect from the opposition. It was good for us to qualify
for the second round from a tough group.


"We have shown we are capable of beating big sides, but we need
to be more consistent."


Bangladesh had been playing one-day cricket for more than a
decade, but could achieve only a few big wins. They beat India,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Australia just once each but failed to
build on these successes.


They looked a different team this time, qualifying for the second
round for the first time since making their Cup debut in 1999 in
England.


Bangladesh had won just two Cup matches before this tournament,
but improved upon their performance with three victories, their
other victims being debutants Bermuda.


The presence of talented youngsters in Tamim Iqbal, Saqibul Hasan
and Mushfiqur Rahim augurs well for Bangladesh, who now prepare
for a home series against India.


Left-arm spinners Mohammad Rafique, Abdur Razzak and Hasan backed
their seamers Mashrafe Mortaza and Syed Rasel and always looked
difficult to score off on helpful pitches.


Bangladesh started the tournament on a sensational note when they
whipped India in their opening game at Trinidad, a victory which
eventually knocked the former champions out of the tournament.


Their biggest moment came in Guyana when they upset South Africa.
The win briefly put Bangladesh in contention for a semi-final
spot, something unthinkable before the tournament.


Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore said "self-belief" was the main
difference between the current team and the previous ones.


"The Bangladeshi side of three years ago wouldn't have been able
to overhaul the target of 192 (against India)," he said after the
India match.


"A lot of these boys are willing to work a lot harder out in the
middle during difficult periods.


"It gives me a tremendous satisfaction to see a group of players
who have come a long way since I joined in 2003. The team has
changed and it will continue to change. It will always evolve.
That's how I look at it."


Left-handed opener Iqbal made his mark, showing courage to deal
with quality pacemen on different pitches.


He played two significant knocks -- both against big sides when
he scored a brisk 51 against India and 38 against South Africa.


"Every victory is important for Bangladesh. I must thank all the
Bangladeshi supporters. They really helped us. Looking around the
stadium it was like we were playing at home," Bashar said after
the South Africa match.


Mohammad Ashraful had the satisfaction of playing a gem of a
knock when he hammered an 83-ball 87 in his team's victory over
South Africa.


Bangladesh now look forward to the home series against India
where Whatmore will be overseeing the team for the last time.

