

Australia and the United States have warned of an impending major
terrorist attack in the southern Philippines, where Al Qaeda-
linked militants recently beheaded seven Christian hostages.


In an advisory to its citizens circulated late Friday, the US
embassy said the attack could take place anywhere on Mindanao,
the country's main southern island.


"The embassy has information that a terrorist group may be
planning to carry out bombing attacks in central Mindanao over
the next several days," the travel notice said.


It asked Americans to "carefully consider plans" to visit the
area, keep a low profile and avoid going to public places,
including a national sports festival scheduled in Koronadal city
from April 22 to 28.


Australia also warned its citizens against travelling to Mindanao
and the adjoining islands of Basilan, Jolo and Tawi-Tawi, where
Al Qaeda-linked militants are operating.


"Recent credible information indicates terrorists may be in the
advanced stage of attack planning," it said. "The attacks may be
imminent and could occur at any time, anywhere in Mindanao."


It said there was a "very high threat" of terrorist attacks,
including kidnappings.


Philippine troops have been engaged in a two-pronged counter-
terrorism offensive against the Abu Sayyaf, the Jemaah Islamiyah
(JI) and Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) on Jolo.


MNLF rebels led by Islamic firebrand Habier Malik last week
shelled an army base, killing two soldiers and a civilian and
triggering heavy government reprisals.


Elsewhere in Jolo, troops are also on the trail of an Abu Sayyaf
faction which on Thursday beheaded seven Christian workers seized
three days earlier.


The MNLF was the country's main Muslim separatist group until it
sealed a peace pact with Manila in 1996.


Despite settling for limited autonomy, implementation of the
agreement has been fraught with difficulties, with many hardline
MNLF commanders still controlling armed units that constantly
engage the military.


The government said there appeared to be evidence that Malik may
have joined forces with the Abu Sayyaf, which, like the JI, is on
the US government's list of foreign terrorist organisations.


Several Indonesian JI militants, including two wanted for deadly
bombings in Bali, Indonesia in 2002, are believed to be fighting
alongside Abu Sayyaf militants on Jolo.

