

China's rising snooker star Ding Jinhui says that support from
his countrymen back home will spur him on when he makes his World
Championship debut against twice former winner Ronnie O'Sullivan
here on Sunday.


A great future has been forecast for the 20-year-old from
Shanghai, but he could not have been handed a tougher start at
the Crucible than against the mercurial Englishman who on his day
is the most devastating shotmaker in the game.


The match is certain to draw a huge television audience back in
China perhaps even surpassing the record 110million who watched
his triumph in the China Open two years ago.


"I have one billion people behind me and it feels very good,"
Ding said of the support he gets back home. "I think it's my
biggest advantage."


"They say I'm the third most famous sportsman in China behind
(basketball player) Yao Ming and (110 metre hurdler) Liu Xiang. I
don't really care about it.


"Mostly I concentrate on my game. I don't really care about my
fame."


The reality for Ding though is that despite the support from his
fans in China, he is bound to be confronted by an overwhelmingly
pro-O'Sullivan Crucible crowd.


The game's brightest young star was left in tears the last time
he was exposed to such an atmosphere, during January's Masters
final defeat to the same opponent.


He says he has learnt from that Wembley defeat and will profit
from it in Sheffield, a city which he has taken to his heart.


"It's a great place because it has the world's best facilities in
snooker," he said.


"It's a good place to live in because of cinemas, concerts - I
can relax and I came here with my friends."


If Ding manages to beat O'Sullivan, he will be immediately
installed as one of the tournament favourites, quite a compliment
for a player who only qualified at the fourth attempt.


But his talent is such, that come the end of the 17-day marathon,
the Crucible could conceivably herald its youngest ever world
champion.


That is looking too far ahead for Ding, however.


"My mind is very peaceful when I play every tournament. I don't
think about winning a championship, I just concentrate on each
game," he said.


Asked why snooker has become so popular in China, Ding said he
had an idea.


"It's a very easy sport to participate in, no matter how old you
are or what gender you are, not like running or basketball, where
if you're old, you cannot play," he said.


"There are a lot of young talents in China. Hopefully they can
have a chance to play here to learn from the experienced players.


"Certainly, the level of Chinese snooker will grow in the very
near future."

