

A UN report released Friday pressed for world support for African
peacekeepers in Somalia but warned that pursuing military
solutions in Mogadishu was likely to be "counter-productive."


"The international community should urgently support the African
Union (AU) with all means at its disposal," the report by UN
chief Ban Ki-moon said.


It stressed the need to provide "sufficient financial and
logistical resources" to the AU stabilization force to enable it
to complete its deployment and facilitate the withdrawal of
Ethiopian troops.


But the report also warned that pursuing "military solutions to
stabilize Mogadishu is likely to be counter-productive, creating
long-term resentment among certain clans and communities and
damaging prospects for the reconciliation process."


It underscored the need to "dissuade some regional actors from
contributing to instability and the proliferation of arms in
Somalia, while encouraging positive contribution from others."


The report was released as at least 113 civilians were killed and
229 wounded in three days of fighting between Ethiopian forces
and Islamist insurgents in the Somali capital, according to a
local human rights group.


Ethiopian troops helped the UN-backed transitional Somali
government oust Islamists from Mogadishu in January. But since
then fighting has steadily grown worse as Islamist insurgents and
clan warlords have vowed to oust the Ethiopians.


The UN warned of a humanitarian catastrophe in the lawless Somali
capital with corpses left rotting in the streets, where rival
fighters continued pounding each other with heavy artillery.


Some 1,500 AU peacekeepers from Uganda who deployed in Mogadishu
early March have failed to stem the surge in violence. They have
instead taken positions in the main airport, sea port,
presidential palace and a key access road to the airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the AU plans to deploy in Somalia to help President
Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed maintain control of the country.


Ban's report also recommended that the UN Security Council review
the volatile situation in Somalia by mid-June to determine
whether conditions are ripe for the deployment of UN peacekeepers
"subject to progress in the reconciliation process and
developments on the ground."


It further highlighted the need to "explore all possible avenues
to promote inclusive dialogue and genuine reconciliation between
the transitional federal institutions and all other
stakeholders."


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the ousting of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off a power struggle
that exploded into inter-clan warfare.

