

Residents of a dangerous Baghdad district on Saturday accused US
forces walling them in behind a five-kilometre (three-mile)
security barrier of hardening the city's already bitter sectarian
divisions.


On April 10, US paratroopers began hauling six-tonne
(14,000-pound) sections of concrete wall into place around the
Sunni district of Adhamiyah, one of the minority community's last
enclaves in Shiite east Baghdad.


The wall is designed to prevent Shiite death squads from
launching attacks to drive out the Sunnis, and to prevent Sunni
insurgents from using the pocket as a base for raids and bombing
runs into Shiite areas.


Eleven days after the project began, the highway dividing
Adhamiyah from its Shiite neighbours is lined with tall concrete
barriers. A US military statement issued on Tuesday said troops
would work nightly until it is completed.


"The idea is to curb some of the self-sustaining violence by
controlling who has access to the neighbourhoods," said Captain
Marc Sanborn, a military engineer from the 82nd Airborne
Division, according to the US statement.


The area is to become what the US military called a "gated
community" protected by barriers and checkpoints manned by Iraqi
troops.


Adhamiyah's suspicious residents are unconvinced, however, and
many fiercely oppose the idea. Um Haider, a 54-year-old housewife
from inside the cordon, branded the barrier a "weird idea."


"I'm astonished by the way officials think. Is that reasonable?
Protecting al- Adhamiyah by segregating it from adjacent
neighbourhoods?" she asked, when AFP contacted her by telephone.


"Erecting concrete walls between neighbourhoods is not a solution
to the collapse in security and the rampant violence. If so,
Baghdadis would find themselves in a maze of high walls
overnight," she said.


Perfume dealer Zaid Abdullah said: "We do not want to see
segregating walls between us and the rest of Baghdad. I'm afraid
this wall will isolate us, and stricter security procedures stop
us from getting out.


"Tradesmen will not be able to see clients any more," the 26
-year-old said.


The US soldiers building the wall are part of a "surge" of
reinforcements sent into the city to work alongside Iraqi units
and enforce an ambitious plan to quell the sectarian violence
that has left tens of thousands dead.


While they jokingly call their project the "Great Wall of
Adhamiyah," in a reference to China's most famous feat of
military engineering, they see it as more akin to one of the
fenced suburbs around US cities.


"That community will be completely gated and protected," said
Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Rogers, commander of the 407th Brigade
Support Battalion.


While US soldiers see parallels to Ancient China or modern
Houston, British and Irish observers are reminded of the so-
called "Peace Lines" -- walls separating rival Loyalist and
Republican communities in Belfast.


In the Middle East there is a still more incendiary comparison to
be made with Israel's "security barrier" enclosing Palestinian
territory.


And, as the citizens of Nicosia and Berlin found out, once a city
is divided it can stay so for years. In Adhamiyah, Sunni
residents suspect a plot to send them into internal exile while
the Shiite-led government takes over.


"It appears that partitioning through federalism will divide not
only Iraq but also Baghdad," sneered 29-year-old Ali Ibrahim,
referring to moves in parliament to split Iraq into three or more
autonomous regions.


"People here are talking about the new ID cards (Prime Minister
Nuri) al- Maliki's government has decided to issue to al-
Adhamiyah's inhabitants. Is this because we're special, or
because we're persona non grata?" he asked.


Mustafa, a 25-year-old computer programmer, shared his anger,
saying: "I resent the barrier. It will make Adhamiyah a big
prison."


But Adhamiyah is not the only area of Baghdad to have walls, and
no one pretends that such barriers are protection in themselves
against attacks.


The International or Green Zone, which houses the US embassy and
many Iraqi state buildings, has a wall and concentric rings of
armed security.


On April 12 a suicide bomber still managed to launch a deadly
attack inside the parliament building -- well inside the Green
Zone.

