

The head of the official Catholic church in China, Bishop Fu
Tieshan, has died of illness at the age of 76, official media
reported Saturday.


Fu, who was chairman of the Chinese Catholic Patriotic
Association, died Friday night in Beijing, said the People's
Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party.


The newspaper paid a front-page tribute to the memory of this
"close friend of the Chinese Communist Part," who was bishop of
Beijing and also a vice-chairman of the National People's
Congress, or parliament.


Diplomatic relations between Beijing and the Vatican were severed
in 1951 after the Holy See recognised Taiwan, which China's
communist authorities consider a rebel territory awaiting
reunification, by force if necessary.


The official Chinese Catholic Patriotic Association which has
five million members grew up alongside a so-called underground
church which counts some 10 million faithful who remained loyal
to Rome.


The Vatican wishes to reunite the two churches and, according to
Cardinal Joseph Zen, the archbishop of Hong Kong who answers to
Rome, 85 percent of the bishops of the Chinese official church
are now recognised by the pope.


Relations between China and the Vatican have improved markedly
since Benedict XVI took over the papacy in 2005, with envoys from
both sides meeting regularly.


However, the thaw halted last year when the four bishops were
ordained.


One of China's two conditions for establishing official relations
is that the Vatican first cut ties with Taiwan.


China has also insisted that the Vatican must not interfere in
the country's internal affairs, referring to the state-sanctioned
church's right to appoint its own bishops.


Fu was not recognised by the Vatican as a legitimate bishop
because he was appointed in 1979 by Beijing without papal
approval, the South China Morning Post said in Hong Kong.


His death may create huge problems for the Beijing diocese to
find a successor who is acceptable to both the communist
government and most of the bishops who are recognised by the
Vatican, the newspaper said.

