

Bolivian authorities announced Friday a drastic rationing of
natural gas supplies to Argentina, and smaller cuts in exports to
Brazil after protesters seized control of three gas
installations.


Argentina will be the worst affected, with natural gas deliveries
cut from five million cubic meters (176 million cubic feet) a day
to just 1.2 million cubic meters (42 million cubic feet), said
Planning and Development Minister Gabriel Loza.


Supplies to the Brazilian cities of Sao Paulo and Santos will be
reduced from 24.6 million cubic meters (869 million cubic feet) a
day to 24 million cubic meters (847 million cubic feet,) while
exports to the the eastern Brazilian region of Cuiaba, which
received 1.2 million cubic meters (42 million cubic feet) a day,
will be cut off entirely, the minister said.


The decision came after residents in southern Bolivia seized
control of two gas pumping stations operated by Royal Dutch Shell
subsidiary Transredes and another installation run by Brazil's
Petrobras.


Local residents in Yacuiba and nearby areas have been involved in
violent protests since Monday, demanding a larger share of
royalties from the huge Margarita natural gas field.


Earlier in the week, the protesters clashed with security forces
and held dozens of police forces hostage, releasing them on
Thursday.


They also paralyzed roads leading to neighboring Argentina and
Paraguay.


While it is not yet fully operational, the Margarita gas field,
which is at the center of the dispute, is believed to contain 20
percent of Bolivia's proven and probable natural gas reserves,
which authorities say total 1.55 trillion cubic meters (54.74
trillion cubic feet).


Royalties from the gas field, operated by Spain's Repsol YPF,
amounted to 25 million dollars last year, when leftist President
Evo Morales announced that Bolivia's oil and gas contracts with
foreign operators would be renegotiated.


Congress on Thursday approved the 44 contracts with 10
transnationals, giving Bolivia majority control of the energy
sector, after partisan disputes and clerical errors held up the
government's flagship nationalization policies for months.


The Bolivian state will now draw 82 percent of the revenues from
oil and natural gas production, as compared to 18 percent in the
past.


South America's poorest country, Bolivia has the region's second-
largest natural gas reserves, after Venezuela.

