

Polls began opening Saturday amid chaos and tension in Nigeria's
landmark presidential elections, due to see the first post-
colonial transfer of power between two civilian presidents in
Africa's most populous nation.


The first of Nigeria's 61.5 million voters cast their ballots as
booths opened at 0900 GMT in the commercial capital Lagos, in
northern Kaduna and in Abeokuta (south-west), where outgoing
President Olusegun Obasanjo is to cast his vote.


Voting began after police foiled a bomb attack on the offices of
the Electoral Commission (INEC) in the capital Abuja and a shoot-
out in the southern oil-rich Delta, where one of the leading
vice-presidential candidates was present.


Authorities banned private vehicles on the roads of Lagos and
ordered troops and police onto the streets to check vehicles
there and in Yenagoa for potential trouble-makers.


There was little to no traffic on the streets of Lagos.


According to the private owned TV station Channels, elections for
the National Assembly and the Senate, also due to have taken
place concurrently with the presidential poll, were cancelled in
parts of the country at the last minute on Saturday.


It was also unclear whether 65 million ballot papers, ready for
distribution only on the eve of the voting on Friday, had arrived
at the country's 120,000 polling stations.


The ballot paper mayhem was caused by an 11th-hour decision this
week by the country's Supreme Court to allow Vice President Atiku
Abubakar, who is facing corruption allegations, to run for
election. He had previously been disqualified by the electoral
commission.


The election contest will be between three northerners: Umaru
Yar'Adua of the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP), Abubakar,
who defected from the PDP to run as the candidate for the
opposition Action Congress (AC), and former military ruler
Muhammadu Buhari.


The election in Africa's most populous country, also the world's
sixth oil producer, is seen as a key not only to the future of
Nigeria, but to the continent.

