

US President George W. Bush said Friday it was too soon to judge
whether a US- led security push in Iraq would work, but asserted
it was already turning the tide of the war.


"There are still horrific attacks in Iraq, such as the bombings
in Baghdad on Wednesday, but the direction of the fight is
beginning to shift," Bush said in a speech two days after those
attacks killed more than 200 people.


The US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, "reports that
it will be later this year before we can judge the potential for
success, but the first indications are beginning to emerge," Bush
said.


"And they show that so far, the operation is meeting
expectations," added  the US president, whose poll numbers have
slumped in large part because of the unpopular war, which roughly
half the US public believes is already lost.


Bush said he would deliver public updates on the two-month-old,
US-led security crackdown in Baghdad and restive Al-Anbar
province that many observers have called a last-ditch effort to
quell sectarian violence.


His optimistic comments came one day after Democratic Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid told reporters "this war is lost" --
drawing immediate and fierce rhetorical attacks from the White
House and Republican lawmakers.


Bush did not directly address Reid's comments, but White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino quickly fired back that they were at odds
with US military assessments on the ground.


And "if this is his true feeling, then it makes one wonder if he
has the courage of his convictions and therefore will decide to
defund the war," the spokeswoman said late Thursday.


Reid charged on Friday that Bush was repeating "the same old
story" with a strategy that "calls for more of the same."


"It's a failed strategy for our troops in Iraq. It's a failed
strategy for our security at home. It's dangerous that the
president refuses to recognize the reality on the ground in
Iraq," he told the US Senate.


"The longer we continue down the president's path, the further we
will be from success. But there is still a chance to change
course, and we must change course."


A spate of recent polls suggests that a little less than half of
Americans agrees with Reid that the war is already lost, with a
sizeable number more saying that the United States can still win,
but probably will not.


A Washington Post/ABC news poll out Monday found that 51 percent
of Americans believe the United States will lose, against 35
percent who say it will win. The survey had a three-percentage-
point error margin.


A CNN poll out in mid-March found the public evenly divided, 46
percent apiece, saying that the United States cannot win. That
survey also had a three- percentage point error margin.


Bush also again rejected Democratic efforts to tie a 100-billion-
dollar emergency military funding measure to a 2008 timetable for
a US withdrawal from Iraq, which he has promised to veto.


Democrats were poised to work out differences between rival
Senate and House of Representatives versions of the legislation
and send a final package to Bush's desk by late next week.


Congressional sources said Friday that the final measure would
probably set a 2008 withdrawal as a goal, rather than an absolute
requirement. Democrats lack the votes to override Bush's veto.


Earlier Friday, US Defense Secretary Robert Gates, in Baghdad to
meet with Iraq's elected government, warned that American troops
would not stay on indefinitely.


"Our commitment to Iraq is long-term, but it is not a commitment
to have our young men and women patrolling Iraqi streets open-
endedly," he told reporters after meeting Iraqi Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki.


Gates said the ongoing Baghdad security plan aimed to give Maliki
time and space for political progress, not to end the conflict
itself.


"The surge is a strategy for buying time for progress towards
justice and reconciliation in Iraq," he said, while acknowledging
that recent deadly insurgent bomb attacks had been a setback.

