

Alec Baldwin issued an apology on Friday for unleashing a
volcanic tirade at his 11-year-old daughter and blamed "certain
people" for leaking the rant to US media.


The Oscar-nominated star of "The Departed" branded daughter
Ireland a "rude, thoughtless, little pig" in a fiery voicemail
message that emerged on celebrity websites on Thursday.


It is the latest twist to the bitter legal wrangling between
Baldwin and ex-wife Kim Basinger over custody and visitation
rights relating to Ireland. The couple split in 2001.


Baldwin's tirade was apparently triggered by Ireland's failure to
switch her mobile phone on for a scheduled call with her father.


"Once again I've made an ass out of myself trying to get to a
phone at a specific time," Baldwin says in the message. "I'm
tired of playing this game with you. You have insulted me for the
last time.


"You don't have the brains or the decency as a human being -- I
don't give a damn that you are 12 or 11 or a child or that your
mother is a thoughtless pain in the ass who doesn't care what you
do."


Baldwin then tells his daughter that he is going to fly to Los
Angeles to "straighten" her out.


In a statement on his website, alecbaldwin.com, posted Friday,
the actor said he had apologized to his daughter for his actions,
suggesting that the stress of legal battles with Basinger had
tipped him over the edge.


"Naturally, it is not best for a parent to lose their temper with
their child," Baldwin said. "Everyone who knows me privately
knows that I have endured a great deal over the last several
years in my custody litigation.         "Everyone who knows me
privately knows that certain people will go to any lengths to
embarass me and to disrupt my relationship with my daughter.


"I'm sorry, as everyone who knows me is aware, for losing my
temper with my child. I have been driven to the edge by parental
alienation for many years now."


Baldwin's spokesman said in an earlier statement that "in the
best interest of the child" the actor would "do what the mother
is pathologically incapable of doing -- keeping his mouth shut
and obeying the court order."


The statement said Basinger and her lawyer leaked the tape in
violation of a court order, and that Baldwin regretted the choice
of language used.


Basinger's lawyers hit back at the spokesman's explanation on
Friday. In a statement to TMZ.com, celebrity attorney Neal Hersh
said the actor's response showed he was "out of touch."


"I am concerned that Mr. Baldwin's recent statement, wherein he
attempts to shift responsibility to Kim and her lawyers for his
issues with Ireland, shows just how out of touch he is with the
reality and gravity of the situation," Hersh told the website.


Baldwin and Basinger, the star of "LA Confidential," split in
2001 but have been locked in bitter legal wrangling related to
Ireland's custody and visitation rights.


Basinger was charged with contempt of court last year for
violating a 2004 custody arrangement. A Los Angeles court
rejected a bid by Basinger's lawyers to have the charges
dismissed this week.

