

Former US vice president Al Gore on Friday canceled planned
meetings with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe, amid mounting
allegations officials close to the South American leader had
links with right-wing paramilitary squads.


Gore's spokesman Kalee Kreider said the former vice president and
2000 presidential candidate had canceled his scheduled appearance
at a Miami forum Friday, where he was to be introduced by Uribe.


Officials in Bogota said Gore also called off a planned September
visit to Colombia, Washington's closest ally in Latin America.


Kreider said that Uribe had not been scheduled to attend the
Miami event at the time Gore accepted to address the forum.


But he also stressed that the claims that emerged in recent days
in Colombia "are deeply troubling."


Uribe, who has repeatedly denied past links with paramilitary
leaders, said he hoped Gore "will closely examine the situation
in Colombia."


The mounting scandal has also led US lawmakers to block 55
million dollars in military aid to Colombia.


In the latest twist, a Colombian state prosecutor said on Friday
authorities were investigating an alleged plan to assassinate
leftist Senator Gustavo Petro. The senator claimed on Tuesday
that ranches owned by the president's family were used for
meetings of paramilitary leaders in the 1990s.


On Wednesday, Colombia's Supreme Court announced it was
investigating the president of the House of Representatives and
two other lawmakers for alleged links with the paramilitary
United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC), which the United
States considers a terrorist organization.


Earlier this year eight lawmakers from parties in Uribe's
governing coalition were arrested for alleged links with the AUC.


Colombia's paramilitary groups were organized as private armies
in the 1980s, ostensibly to protect landholders from leftist
guerrillas, but were later accused of numerous massacres of
civilians suspected of leftist sympathies, and of involvement in
drug trafficking.


The AUC officially demobilized the last of its 30,000 fighters in
April in a deal that guaranteed prison terms of no more than
eight years to paramilitaries convicted of crimes.

