

Close allies of British Prime Minister Tony Blair are set to be
charged in the "cash for honours" row that has tainted his final
year in office, newspapers said Saturday.


Police investigating the allegations on Friday handed a 216-page
file to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which will now
decide whether anyone should face criminal proceedings in the
case.


The 13-month inquiry was launched amid claims that political
parties, mainly Blair's governing Labour Party, had illegally
offered their financial supporters seats in parliament's
unelected upper House of Lords.


Blair was interviewed twice as a witness in the probe, the first
sitting prime minister to be questioned as part of a criminal
inquiry, as the police gradually closed in on his Downing Street
office.


The Financial Times said Blair "looks almost certain to escape
prosecution."


But The Times said it understood that two of Blair's closest
allies face charges: Lord Michael Levy, Labour's chief fundraiser
and Blair's Middle East envoy, and Ruth Turner, the Downing
Street director of government relations.


The pair and two others were arrested in the probe. They, plus
biotech tycoon and Labour backer Sir Christopher Evans, remain on
bail. All three deny any wrong-doing.


Under the front-page headline "Charge them!", the Daily Mail said
the police demanded that Levy, Turner and Evans be prosecuted.


The Times said it understood that police had also discussed
possible charges against Evans, Blair's longest-serving aide
Jonathan Powell, and John McTernan, the prime minister's
political secretary, though it was unclear whether they were
recommended for prosecution.


"The evidence under normal circumstances would be considered as
strong. But who knows what will happen in this case. The stakes
are so incredibly high," a source told The Times.


The newspaper said they would have to wait around three months
for a decision.


The Financial Times said it understood that any charges would
almost certainly be brought after Blair's resignation, expected
by many pundits to come in May.


In its editorial, The Times said the case would "colour British
politics for a long time to come."


It said the timing of the police handing its file to the CPS was
"bound to trigger a degree of adverse comment," coming in the
run-up to the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and English
local elections on May 3.


"It would be extremely unfortunate if the return of this saga
influenced how votes were cast in these contests only for it to
be discovered later that no one was to be charged, never mind
convicted," it said.


"This has been an extremely political case from the outset."


In a statement, London's Metropolitan Police said that 136 people
had been questioned either as witnesses or suspects as part of
the probe.


Members of Blair's cabinet were among those quizzed.


"We have had extensive consultation with the CPS during the
inquiry and provided them with reports together with over 6,300
documents," the Met said.


"It is now a matter for the CPS to consider the evidence, advise
us on whether any further enquiries are necessary and whether any
charges should be brought."


Police launched their investigation last March after a complaint
from Scottish Nationalist MP Angus MacNeil.


Detectives investigated whether there had been any offences
committed under the rarely-used Honours (Prevention of Abuses)
Act 1925, which forbids the sale of peerages, knighthoods, and
other gongs.


This came after the revelation that the House of Lords'
appointment commission had blocked the award of peerages to four
wealthy Labour backers who lent the party money before the 2005
general election.


Labour admitted being secretly loaned nearly 14 million pounds
(28 million dollars, 20.5 million euros) in that period.


And when the main opposition Conservatives also owned up to
receiving 16 million pounds for its election kitty, the probe was
widened to include them as well.


The whole affair threatens to overshadow Blair's plans as the
curtain falls on his time on office.

