

Mortar bombs exploded in the Somali capital Saturday, killing
more civilians and swelling the exodus from the city, as
Ethiopian soldiers battled Islamist insurgents for a fourth day.


The Ethiopian army fired mortar rounds and rockets from the
fortified presidential palace in southern Mogadishu at several
rebel hideouts, sparking a volley of retaliatory fire from
insurgents, residents said.


At least 11 civilians were killed in separate incidents as the
latest clashes forced more people to leave the blood-soaked,
seaside capital.


A morter hit a passenger bus in the city's southern Hodan
district, killing four and wounding several others.


"We heard a heavy explosion and a bus in front of us was in
flames.... Four dead bodies were recovered and other wounded
people were bleeding," said one witness, Mohamed Weli.


A father and his three sons were killed when a shell pounded
their house in the Bakara district, said Ali Hassan Aden, a
neighbour, while officials at the main Medina hospital reported
that three patients died from their wounds.


Local human rights groups said the three previous days of
fighting killed at least 113 civilians and wounded 229 others.


With no sign of a truce, hundreds of terrified residents fled the
city to the safer outskirts, an AFP correspondent reported.


Mogadishu residents expressed shocked at the unrelenting clashes.


"We are really shocked by what is happening this morning. Our
neighbourhood has been relatively calm, but now we have been
targeted," said the visibly shaken Nurto Hussein, among the few
residents remaining in southern Mogadishu.


Islamist insurgents and some of Mogadishu's clan warlords have
vowed to oust the Ethiopians who helped Somalia's UN-backed
transitional government in January to expell the Somali Council
of Islamic Courts from the city.


The rivals exchanged heavy machinegun fire in the northern Fagah,
Ex-Control and Sanaa districts as well as areas around the main
Bakara market, where columns of the insurgents' modified pick-up
trucks and Ethiopian tanks raced around the city.


There was sporadic shelling in several districts overnight, but
casualty figures from the numerous battlefields could not be
established, residents said.


"The Ethiopian forces are shelling Bakara market, mortars are
landing everywhere and at this moment, we do not know what to
do," said Hashim Ali Mohamed, who lives in southern Mogadishu.


The United Nations said at least 321,000 people have fled the
city since February, one of the largest displacements of people
from the seaside capital since the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre.


On Thursday the UN warned of a humanitarian catastrophe with
corpses left rotting in the streets of Mogadishu, where rival
fighters pounded each other with heavy artillery.


Some 1,500 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda deployed in
Mogadishu since early March have failed to stem the surge in
violence. They have instead taken positions in the main airport,
sea port, presidential palace and a key access road to the
airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to deploy in Somalia to
help Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed expand his tenuous
grip on the country.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon in a report released Friday pressed for
world support for African peacekeepers but warned that pursuing
"military solutions to stabilize Mogadishu is likely to be
counter-productive, creating long-term resentment among certain
clans and communities and damaging prospects for the
reconciliation process."


There is a need to "dissuade some regional actors from
contributing to instability and the proliferation of arms in
Somalia, while encouraging positive contribution from others,"
the report said.


Somalia has lacked an a functional government since the 1991
Barre's ouster exploded into a deadly power struggle that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore stability.

