

Vietnam will allow foreign strategic non-bank investors to raise
their stake in domestic banks from 10 to 15 percent, the
government said in an online statement Saturday.


However, the change did not apply to foreign banks, whose maximum
stake in local banks remains capped at 10 percent. It also left
unchanged the total foreign ownership ceiling of 30 percent in
any Vietnamese bank.


The move comes amid a shake-up in the banking sector of communist
Vietnam, a fast growing economy with an under-developed financial
sector where only eight percent of the country's 85 million
people have bank accounts.


The new decree would help local banks expand after Vietnam's
entry into the World Trade Organisation in January rang in a new
era of stiff competition against foreign banking giants eager to
do business here.


International banks such as London-based HSBC and the Australia
and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) plan to set up new branches
and expand services such as credit cards, personal loans and
mortgages.


The decree, issued Friday and published Saturday, said Vietnam
would allow the "stake of a strategic foreign investor to
increase from 10 percent to 15 percent of the legal capital of a
Vietnamese commercial bank."


However, it also said that "the stake of a foreign financial
institution ... cannot exceed 10 percent of the legal capital in
a domestic commercial bank."


Under the new rules, the prime minister can, in special cases,
raise the share limit for a foreign non-bank strategic investor
to 20 percent, while non- strategic investors are limited to a
five-percent stake.


The decree did not define who is considered a strategic investor
and did not say when the changes would take effect.


Several foreign banks have recently bought 10-percent stakes in
Vietnamese banks under deals that give them a market foothold
while transferring capital and technical and managerial expertise
to their local partners.


BNP Paribas has tied up with Orient Commercial Bank, ANZ joined
with Sacombank, while regional giants Standard Chartered and HSBC
partnered Asia Commercial Bank and Techcombank.

