

Police stormed an apartment in Tokyo Saturday, ending a 15-hour
stand-off with an armed man, just days after the fatal shooting
of Nagasaki's mayor stunned a nation that prides itself on its
safety record.


Yuji Takeshita, a 36-year-old gang member, is believed to have
gunned down a fellow gangster before holing himself up in the
apartment and firing at police officers.


The incident came a day after a man was shot dead outside a shop
in suburban Tokyo, and prompted calls for new legislation to
control activities of gangs, in addition to tighter gun-control
rules.


Underworld gangs are linked to most gun violence here, including
the death of mayor Iccho Ito, who was killed by a gangster
Tuesday in the southern Japanese city as he campaigned for re-
election this weekend.


"The police must strengthen its crackdown on gangs," the Tokyo
Shimbun newspaper said in its editorial.


"Society as a whole needs to show strong opposition to
violence... such tragedies may continue unless we overhaul gun
control rules and measures to combat violence by organised
gangs," it said.


Police stormed Takeshita's apartment shortly after 3:00 am (1800
GMT), where they found him with severe head wounds having
apparently shot himself.


He was arrested for possessing weapons, the Jiji Press news
agency reported, and Japanese television later showed him being
taken to hospital in an ambulance.


Before storming the apartment, police used a telephone call from
another gangster to try to persuade Takeshita to give himself up.


Takeshita replied, "I want to apologise with my death," Japanese
newspapers reported.


"I'm relieved, it's good that no one living around here was
injured," said one local resident after the man's arrest.


"I don't want this kind of accident to happen again in the
future," said another.


Gun crimes are rare in Japan, which bans possession of firearms
except for police officers and a limited number of licence-
holders.


The number of guns confiscated by police has been declining in
recent years after anti-gangster and gun-control laws were
revised.


But experts warned stricter regulations were forcing mobsters
into using more artful ways to possess guns.


"The fact that the number of guns confiscated has dropped
drastically -- to about 460 guns last year from about 1,500 in
1996 -- is just because ways to smuggle and hide guns have become
more sophisticated," said Hiroshi Murahashi, a lawyer who
specialises in gang crime, in an interview published Saturday.


"As long as organised groups of gangs exist, tragedy will keep
occurring. We need a fresh law to combat gangsters," he said.


Japan's government said on Friday it would consider tightening
gun-control rules after the mayor's murder.

