

Brian Lara's batting heroics were all the more impressive given
the weakness of the West Indies side he played in, said one of
the few men able to judge him from the standpoint of someone
approaching an equal.


Australia captain Ricky Ponting, bracketed with West Indies
skipper Lara and India's Sachin Tendulkar as the best batsmen
currently in world cricket, paid a generous tribute on the eve of
his old rival's final international appearance, against England,
in Barbados on Saturday.


"I've always thought he and Sachin (Tendulkar) have been the two
greatest batsmen I've ever played against, probably for different
reasons," Ponting said after champions Australia's dominating
215-run World Cup Super Eights win against fellow semi-finalists
New Zealand here Friday.


"Brian has got the ability to turn it on when he wants and take
an attack apart and Sachin has been the most techically correct
player I've seen.


"The thing a lot of people don't think much about with Brian
Lara, is that he's basically had the weight of that whole team on
his shoulders for the best part of 10 years and had to carry
their batting and win them games almost by himself.


"That sort of pressure going into every game, for him to be able
stand up and perform is something that should never be
overlooked."


Lara, 37, holds the world records for Test and first-class
scores.


He smashed an unbeaten 400 against England in the Antigua Test in
2004 and an unbeaten 501 for Warwickshire against Durham in the
English county championship in 1994.


He is the highest scorer in Tests with 11,953 runs in 131 matches
with 34 centuries and the fifth-highest in one-dayers with 10,387
in 298 games.


But his 17-year international career has coincided with a sharp
decline in West Indies cricket, his captaincy receiving renewed
criticism as the hosts failed to qualify for the World Cup semi-
finals.


However, his batting ability has never been in doubt.


Australia opener Matthew Hayden, who topped Lara's then Test
record score of 375 by making 380 against Zimbabwe at Perth
during the 2003-04 season, said  his fellow left-hander's
exceptionally high backlift made him stand out.


"Brian is probably unheralded as far as batting technique goes.
He's got an unusual, unorthodox technique which makes bowlers
look embarrassed at times. I love the way he manipulates the
field.


"It's a pretty sad day for cricket because he is a tremendous
ambassador for the game."


New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming, another lefty, added: "I
heard him (Lara) say he wanted to be an entertainer; he was all
that and more.


"He was a player who created interest in New Zealand and around
the world - so he brought more players to the game.


"For a left-hander he was inspirational to watch and play
against."

