

The Buffalo Sabres and San Jose Sharks booked their second-round
berths in the National Hockey League playoffs on Friday.


Maxim Afinogenov had a goal and an assist and Ryan Miller made 30
saves as the top-seeded Sabres advanced to the Eastern Conference
second round with a 4-3 victory over the New York Islanders in
game five of their best-of-seven series.


The Sharks got the job done on the road as Patrick Marleau scored
his second goal of the game with 4:21 remaining in the third
period, snapping a tie and leading San Jose Sharks to a 3-2
series-clinching triumph over the Nashville Predators in game
five of their Western Conference series.


Ryane Clowe also tallied and Evgeni Nabokov made 22 saves for the
Sharks, who eliminated the Predators in the first round for the
second straight postseason.


San Jose's captain, Marleau cashed in during a five-minute power
play late in the second period to forge a 2-2 tie.


He came through again in the latter stages of the third to give
the Sharks their third straight berth in the conference semi-
finals.


Joe Thornton, who led the NHL with 92 assists during the regular
season, held the puck behind Nashville's net as defenseman Shea
Weber and Vernon Fiddler stood on either side waiting. That left
Marleau alone in front, and after receiving a pass from Thornton,
he swept a shot past goaltender Tomas Vokoun, giving San Jose a
3-2 edge.


Despite a furious attempt to get the equalizer, the Predators
managed just two shots on goal the rest of the way as the Sharks
held on for the victory.


In Buffalo, rookie Drew Stafford, Jason Pominville and Derek Roy
also scored for the Sabres, who posted its first playoff series
win over the Islanders in four all-time meetings.


One of the Islanders' top four blue-liners, Sean Hill began
serving the 20-game suspension he received earlier Friday for
violating the terms of the Performance Enhancing Substances
Program run by both the league and the Players' Association.


But with his team losing three of the first four games of the
series with him in the lineup, it is doubtful the veteran would
have been enough of a factor to prevent New York from being
eliminated.


Buffalo carried a 3-0 lead into the third period before former
Sabre Miroslav Satan atoned for an earlier miscue 4 1/2 minutes
into the session to get New York on the board.


Afinogenov restored the three-goal advantage just over two
minutes later, and the goal proved crucial as the Islanders
tallied twice in a 3:24 span midway through the period to climb
within 4-3.


However, New York could not get the equalizer past Miller, who
made half of his saves in the final session to help send the
Presidents' Trophy-winning Sabres to next round and keep the
Islanders without a playoff series victory since 1993.

