

Global automakers roared into China this week unveiling their
hottest new models and revving sales forecasts for what many
believe will be the world's largest car market in the years
ahead.


Enthusiasm for the Shanghai Auto Show, which opens to the public
on Sunday, signals the importance of China's market after it
overtook Japan last year to become the world's second largest
vehicle market behind the United States.


Whether selling inexpensive subcompacts or million-dollar luxury
models, auto firms have driven into China's financial hub en
masse, eager to woo and consummate the nation's budding romance
with the automobile.


"Shanghai is clearly one of the biggest shows in the world,"
Kevin Wale, president and managing director of General Motors
China group, told reporters in Shanghai Friday.


"That's why we (have) got a whole range of GM seniors coming to
China. This is really an important market and a really important
show."


GM, the globe's largest manufacturer, will display 41 models at
its 4,500 -square-metre (48,420-square-feet) stand here, and also
premier two concept cars, the Buick Riviera coupe and the fuel-
cell-powered Chevrolet Volt.


"This year, we just want to grow faster than the market and
continue to grow in reference of China," said Wale, who last year
oversaw China sales of GM cars with its joint ventures of 876,747
units, up 31.8 percent.


Volkswagen, the market share leader in China, will unveil here
the ultra economical Polo BlueMotion, in what company vice
president Winfried Vahland described Friday as a bid to reduce by
20 percent fuel consumption and emissions from its cars in China
by 2010.


Toyota vice president Yoshimi Inaba told a press briefing that he
expects sales this year in the vibrant Chinese market to top the
400,000 mark, up from the 308,000 units sold last year.


About 1,300 companies have set up shop at the biennial
exhibition, but the show is not just about the global giants but
also the likes of Ferrari, Spyker and Bentley, hoping to tap
China's growing rich set.


Refusing to be caught in the slow lane are China's hungry and
increasingly prominent auto makers.


The largest firms such as SAIC, FAW, Geely and Chery have
aggressive development plans and may soon challenge the dominance
of Western and Japanese auto making.


Although many have foreign partners, they have made it clear that
they are no longer going to take a back seat in their own market
while also targeting overseas expansion in developed markets.


"Without independent innovation, we cannot achieve sustainable
development," SAIC chairman Hu Maoyuan said Thursday.


SAIC is brimming with confidence after completing its pledge to
begin building its own brands by 2007, with the launch of the
"Roewe 750," a sporty sedan based on Rover 75 technology.


The Shanghai-based firm, which partners Volkswagen and GM, bought
part of Britain's scrapped MG Rover Group last year, and aims to
target the sporty sedan at what it calls China's middle-high
class segment.


Hu said it had booked about 7,000 orders of the Roewe 750 so far.


Although Chinese brands have long been regarded as low-end,
substandard products with poor reliability, that image is
changing to the detriment of foreign car makers.


Chinese-brand sedans had a 25.7 percent market share at home in
2006, up more than two percentage points from a year earlier,
according to the semi-official China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers.


Domestic auto makers sold 982,800 sedans last year in a market
that totalled 3.8 million cars and 7.2 million vehicles including
trucks and buses.


"The growth came after the rising awareness of local automakers
and their better-designed automobiles," Jiang Lei, secretary
general of the association was quoted Friday as saying in the
Shanghai Daily.


Sales of Chinese-made vehicles in the first quarter of this year
jumped 22.2 percent from last year to 2.12 million, with
passenger car sales jumping 28.5 percent to 1.25 million.


"No other vehicle market is expected to experience the growth of
China over the next decade," Wale was quoted as saying Wednesday
in a state newspaper.

