

The Waikato Chiefs cemented their position in the Super 14 top
four and defended New Zealand's honour with a 35-27 win over the
Coastal Sharks in a high-octane rugby match here Saturday.


Importantly for the Chiefs they closed within three points of the
third-placed Sharks as both sides came away with four-try bonus
points.


They also denied the Sharks their quest to become the first side
to win a "grand slam" against all five New Zealand franchises in
a season after they earlier accounted for the Highlanders,
Crusaders, Hurricanes and Blues.


For the first 45 minutes the Chiefs looked to have overcome the
defensive woes that saw them concede 70 points in the past two
weeks, as they raced to a 32-3 lead.


But over the closing stages the familiar holes returned and the
fast-finishing Sharks piled on the points with four tries,
including two while Marty Holah was in the sin bin.


"I thought our defence was a big step up and we're getting to
where we want to be. Unfortunately we didn't shut the door in the
last 20 (minutes)," said Chiefs skipper Jono Gibbes.


In a blistering opening, the Chiefs began at a point-a-minute as
they raced to an 18-0 lead inside the first quarter.


Taking their lead from the way the Sharks dealt to the Blues last
week, the Chiefs exploited the unease of JP Pietersen and Odwe
Ndungane under the high ball, while a barging Sione Lauaki caused
havoc around the base of the ruck.


Following two penalties and a conversion by Stephen Donald and
tries by Lelia Masaga and Tasesa Lavea for the Chiefs, the Sharks
put their first points on the board in the 33rd minute with a
Francois Steyn penalty.


But a second Lavea try and Donald conversion had the Chiefs in
front 25-3 at the turn.


Brendon Leonard increased the lead to 32-3 soon after the
resumption, finishing off a break from Liam Messam, but the tide
was turning.


The Sharks, who had scrummed solidly all match, were rewarded for
their power up front when Bobby Skinstad peeled off the back of a
scrum for their opening try.


They then backed up by driving burly Deon Carstens over the line
and at 13-32 with 25 minutes remaining, the outcome remained in
doubt.


When Holah was sent from the field for persistent infringing, the
Sharks were awarded a penalty try for a deliberate scrum
infringement by Lauaki and then a try to replacement Bismarck du
Plessis.


The Sharks now return to South Africa to play the Lions and
Stormers while the Chiefs face away games against the New South
Wales Waratahs and competition leaders Canterbury Crusaders.

