

The clock is ticking. Politically, the US military "surge" in
Iraq has to start showing positive results soon -- and up to now
the outcome is mixed.


US officials say that time is running out for Iraqi politicians
to overcome their differences and pass key legislation to show
they are governing for all Iraqis, not just for their narrow
sectarian groups.


But voters in Iraq and in the US are also looking for military
progress.


"Our commitment to Iraq ... is not a commitment to have our young
men and women patrolling Iraqi streets open-endedly," US Defence
Secretary Robert Gates said in Baghdad on Friday after meeting
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


Gates described the new security plan announced in January by
President George W. Bush as "a strategy for buying time for
progress for justice and reconciliation" in Iraq.


But the US public, weary after four years of war, has little
patience left.


Failure in Iraq could result in anything from the US Congress
cutting off funds for the war to candidates from Bush's
Republican Party being crushed in the 2008 election.


Bush announced in January that he was deploying some 28,000 more
US troops to Iraq, bringing the total to 160,000 by June.


The bulk of the soldiers are going to Baghdad, while 4,000 are
heading to the province of Al-Anbar, a Sunni Arab insurgent
stronghold to its west.


Stretched thin after four years in Iraq and more than five in
Afghanistan, at first it seemed the all-volunteer US army could
not handle the new demands.


Gates solved that on April 11 by ordering all soldiers in Iraq to
stay for a minimum of 15 months -- three more months than usual--
thus giving him the manpower to maintain a "surge" level at least
through the end of the year.


However, the level of violence in Iraq seems to have reached new
heights, with Wednesday's spate of car bombings in Baghdad
killing almost 200 civilians.


On April 12, a bombing inside the Iraqi parliament, itself inside
the fortified Green Zone, killed an MP.


In Washington, the opposition Democrats -- now in control of
Congress on the back of mounting anti-war sentiment -- want to
deny the president funding for the conflict unless he agrees to a
date to start pulling out troops.


Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic majority leader in the Senate,
even went as far as saying that the "war is lost, and this surge
is not accomplishing anything, as is shown by the extreme
violence in Iraq this week."


Gates, who spent the week touring the Middle East in a bid to
shore up support for the Iraqi government, responded simply: "I
respectfully disagree."


With so much riding on the success of the troop surge, Gates held
lengthy consultations with top brass, including the head of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Peter Pace; the head of Central
Command, Admiral William Fallon, the commander of US forces in
Iraq, General David Petraeus and his deputy, Lieutenant General
Raymond Odierno.


Gates even cancelled a planned visit to a joint Iraqi-US security
post in Baghdad that would have provided a golden photo
opportunity in order to spend more time with the generals.


Petraeus, the security plan's main architect, has repeatedly said
there will be no overnight results. "We have always been very
upfront by saying this is about months, not weeks or days," he
told reporters.


Gates and Petraeus said they will evaluate the plan's progress in
late August, taking into consideration progress towards
reconciliation between Iraq's bitterly divided Shiite and Sunni
communities.


News of the violence however overshadows any early signs of
progress in the "surge" plan.


The US marine commander in charge of ground operations in Al-
Anbar, Brigadier General Mark Gurganus, said that with his new
"surge" forces he can permanently station marines with Iraqi
forces in every provincial population centre.


Gurganus and his marines are based in Fallujah, captured after a
major assault on insurgents in November 2004 and now a relatively
peaceful town.


Other positive signs include a ceramics factory reopening in the
provincial capital of Ramadi, and a cement factory reopening in
Fallujah.


Attacks on his forces are "down significantly," Gurganus said,
giving no figures.


But he is quick to mention other factors, especially support from
Sunni tribal leaders who are urging their men to join the police
and army now that they can serve in Al-Anbar for at least two
years.


The Anbar crackdown may also have pushed the insurgents elsewhere
in Iraq, Gurganus said.


"We do need some time to try to make this work," said Gates,
speaking in Baghdad.


"I think it is no surprise that the results are mixed at this
point. There will probably be tough days ... but I'm hopeful and
modestly optimistic."


It is unclear, however, how much time the US public will give
Gates and Petraeus before losing patience with the war.

