

The Boston Red Sox overcame two more home runs by red-hot Alex
Rodriguez to defeat the New York Yankees 7-6 Friday in the first
of a three-game series between the bitter baseball rivals.


Rodriguez bashed two more homers to become the fastest player to
12 home runs (15 games) in major league history.


He belted a solo homer in the fourth off Boston starter Curt
Schilling, and added a three-run blast off Shilling in the fifth
as the Yankees took a 6-2 lead.


But one day after they rallied from a 6-2 deficit with two outs
and nobody on base in the ninth against Cleveland, the New York
bullpen imploded.


On a night when the Red Sox were wearing green uniforms in honor
of the late Red Auerbach, the architect of the Boston Celtics' 16
National Basketball Association championships, David Ortiz
started the decisive rally with a double against Mike Myers.


Manny Ramirez drew a walk against Luis Vizcaino and both runners
moved up on a groundout before Mike Lowell singled home Ortiz.


That brought on Yankees closer Mariano Rivera, who was seeking
his first save of the season.


But Jason Varitek singled in Ramirez with a base hit to right-
center and Coco Crisp grounded a triple down the first base line
that rattled around in the corner, allowing both Lowell and
Varitek to score to tie the game.


With the infield in, Alex Cora fisted a soft liner over Derek
Jeter at shortstop, plating Crisp for a 7-6 lead and handing
Rivera his second straight blown save.


Cora had the game-winning hit in the ninth inning Thursday
against Toronto.


Of Rivera's 57 career blown saves, 11 have come against the Red
Sox. The last time he blew consecutive saves was against Boston
in the 2005 season.


With Red Sox closer Jonathan Papelbon unavailable due to a rest
day, Boston manager Terry Francona turned to Japanese lefthander
Hideki Okijima, who worked around a one-out walk to Bobby Abreu
for his first save.


He retired Rodriguez on a soft liner to second base for the
second out of the frame.


Kyle Snyder got two outs in the eighth for the win.

