

Rafael Nadal will bid to extend a winning home tradition as he
aims for a third successive title at the Barcelona Open beginning
on Monday.


The world number two who excels on clay, is among five Spaniards
who have lifted trophies over the past six editions at the Real
Club.


The odd man out is Argentine Gaston Gaudio, who won in 2002, two
years before lifting the Roland Garros title.


Nadal began his 2007 clay-court campaign at the Monte Carlo
Masters. But his job this spring is filled with challenges almost
every week.


The 20-year-old is defending winner's points from a swag of
events including Monte Carlo, Barcelona, Rome and Paris.


Though Roger Federer is not competing this week, training
privately instead with coach Tony Roche, Nadal can do little to
make up immediate ground with his rival, whom he beat in three of
four spring finals a year ago.


After the March hardcourt season in the United States, Nadal has
eased comfortably onto his preferred surface.


"I'm happy with my level, I'm playing good forehands and
backhands," said the two-time Roland Garros winner. "I'm very
happy with the game, the full game.


"I"m feeling better movement on clay."


Nadal heads a field of dedicated clay-court seeds, with Russian
Nikolay Davydenko standing second and fellow Spaniard Tommy
Robredo on third.


Argentine David Nalbandian will try to kick start his 2006
campaign on the surface after an early Monte Carlo defeat.


Fifth seed David Ferrer has confidence from a quarter-final at
Monte Carlo, though his run ended as he ran into Federer.


Finn Jarkko Nieminin takes the sixth seeding ahead of 2001
Barcelona winner Juan Carlos Ferrero and eighth seed Juan Chela
of Argentina.


Briton Andy Murray would have ben a crowd attraction with his Top
Ten status and Barcelona training background. But the teenager
was forced out by a back injury in Monte Carlo and is now due to
resume at Estoril in a week.


The first eight seeds have byes, with Nadal due to face the
winner from Belgian Kristof Vliegen and Italian veteran Davide
Sanguinetti.


Russian Marat Safin, who won the title seven years ago, is also
in the mix on an 11th seeding with an opening match against
Italian Simone Bolelli.

