

British Prime Minister Tony Blair could see two of his close
colleagues charged in the "cash for honours" row that has marred
his final year in office, according to media reports on Saturday.


Blair himself however "looks almost certain to escape prosecution
... after being cleared by police of any wrongdoing" The
Financial Times, citing sources close to the inquiry, reported.


The revelations come at a sensitive time for the governing Labour
Party ahead of local elections next month, and before Blair's
widely-expected resignation.


The police inquiry into the affair, dubbed cash-for-honours, was
launched a year ago amid claims that political parties had
illegally offered financial supporters seats in parliament's
unelected upper House of Lords.


Police investigating the allegations handed a file on Friday to
the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which must now decide
whether anyone should face criminal proceedings in the case.


Blair was interviewed twice as a witness in the probe, the first
sitting prime minister to be questioned as part of a criminal
inquiry, as the police gradually closed in on his Downing Street
office.


However, The Times said it understood that two of Blair's closest
allies face charges: Lord Michael Levy, Labour's chief fundraiser
and Blair's Middle East envoy, and Ruth Turner, the Downing
Street director of government relations.


The pair and two others were arrested in the probe. They, plus
biotech tycoon and Labour backer Sir Christopher Evans, remain on
bail. All three deny any wrongdoing.


Under the front-page banner headline "Charge them!", the
rightwing Daily Mail tabloid claimed that police were calling for
Evans, Levy and Turner to be prosecuted. The newspaper did not
name its source.


According to The Times, police had discussed possible charges
against Evans, Blair's longest-serving aide Jonathan Powell, and
John McTernan, the prime minister's political secretary, though
it was unclear whether they were recommended for prosecution.


"The evidence under normal circumstances would be considered as
strong. But who knows what will happen in this case. The stakes
are so incredibly high," an unnamed source told The Times.


In a statement, London's Metropolitan Police said that 136 people
had been questioned either as witnesses or suspects as part of
the probe.


Members of Blair's cabinet were among those quizzed.


The FT said a final decision was unlikely to be made "for several
weeks and almost certainly after Mr Blair's resignation as prime
minister, expected in early May."


In its editorial, The Times said the timing of the police handing
its file to the CPS was "bound to trigger a degree of adverse
comment," coming in the run-up to the Scottish Parliament, Welsh
Assembly and English local elections.


Blair has vowed to step down as premier by September and is
likely to announce a firm date soon after the May 3 vote.


"It would be extremely unfortunate if the return of this saga
influenced how votes were cast in these contests only for it to
be discovered later that no one was to be charged, never mind
convicted," The Times added.


"This has been an extremely political case from the outset."

