

Alec Baldwin has taken a vow of silence after a recording of a
volcanic tirade by the actor to his 11-year-old daughter appeared
in US media reports.


The Oscar-nominated star of "The Departed" unleashed a heated
tirade at daughter Ireland, who has been caught in the middle of
tit-for-tat legal battles between Baldwin and ex-wife Kim
Basinger in recent years.


Baldwin's April 11 rant -- where at one point he informs his
daughter that she is a "rude, thoughtless, little pig" -- was
reported widely in US broadcast and online media Friday.


The 49-year-old actor's ire was apparently triggered by Ireland's
failure to switch her mobile phone on for a scheduled call with
her father.


"Once again I've made an ass out of myself trying to get to a
phone at a specific time," Baldwin says in the message. "I'm
tired of playing this game with you. You have insulted me for the
last time.


"You don't have the brains or the decency as a human being -- I
don't give a damn that you are 12 or 11 or a child or that your
mother is a thoughtless pain in the ass who doesn't care what you
do."


Baldwin then tells his daughter that he is going to fly to Los
Angeles to "straighten" her out.


Baldwin's spokesman said in a statement that "in the best
interest of the child" the actor would "do what the mother is
pathologically incapable of doing -- keeping his mouth shut and
obeying the court order."


The statement said Basinger and her lawyer leaked the tape in
violation of a court order, and that Baldwin regretted the choice
of language used.


"Although Alec acknowledges that he should have used different
language in parenting his child, everyone who knows him privately
knows what he has been put through for the past six years," it
added.


Basinger's lawyers hit back at Baldwin's explanation on Friday.
In a statement to TMZ.com, celebrity attorney Neal Hersh said the
actor's response showed he was "out of touch."


"I am concerned that Mr. Baldwin's recent statement, wherein he
attempts to shift responsibility to Kim and her lawyers for his
issues with Ireland, shows just how out of touch he is with the
reality and gravity of the situation," Hersh told the website.


Baldwin and Basinger, the star of "LA Confidential," split in
2001 but have been locked in bitter legal wrangling related to
Ireland's custody and visitation rights.


Basinger was charged with contempt of court last year for
violating a 2004 custody arrangement. A Los Angeles court
rejected a bid by Basinger's lawyers to have the charges
dismissed this week.

