

Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki will begin a regional tour on
Sunday to drum up support for next month's international
conference in Egypt aimed at quelling the raging bloodshed in
Iraq.


Maliki's tour comes to the backdrop of a warning by US Defence
Secretary Robert Gates to Iraqi leaders that they need to get
their act together as American patience towards them is wearing
thin.


On Saturday, sectarian violence was reported from northern Iraq's
oil hub of Kirkuk as gunmen slaughtered four members of a Kurdish
Shiite family, including an eight-year-old girl, police said.


The Shiite premier will leave for Cairo on Sunday and is expected
to travel on to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other regional states
for preparatory talks ahead of the May 3-4 meeting, Iraqi
officials told AFP.


The ministerial meeting, a follow-up to an ambassadors'
conference last month in Baghdad, will be attended by Iraq's
neighbours and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council, plus Japan, Canada and Germany.


"Egypt will be his first stopover where he will hold talks with
President Hosni Mubarak, before moving to Kuwait and other
countries in the region," an official at Maliki's office said on
condition of anonymity.


Mahmud Othman, a Kurdish MP close to the government, said Maliki
is also expected to visit Saudi Arabia during his tour.


"The prime agenda for his trip is to discuss the preparations for
the meeting," he said.


Neither official could say whether or not Maliki will visit Iran
which has still not confirmed its attendance at the Egypt meeting
amid a dispute over five Iranian officials held prisoner by US
forces in Iraq.


If Iran were to attend the high-profile gathering at Egypt's Red
Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, its officials would sit at the
same table as US Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice who has
already confirmed she will be there.


"Iran has demanded that at least three of the five Iranians
detained by US forces in Iraq must be released before the Egypt
conference," Othman told AFP, referring to the Iranians seized on
January 11 in the northern city of Arbil.


"This has almost become a condition for them to attend the Sharm
el-Sheikh meeting," he said, adding that US authorities may free
them given the implications of the meeting.


When AFP asked the US military for an update on the status of the
detainees, it did not offer an immediate comment.


Othman said Baghdad was urging Tehran to attend the conference as
Shiite Iran's support is seen vital in stabilising violence-
wracked Iraq.


Washington accuses Tehran of funding and training militant groups
to fight its forces in Iraq, and alleges that the detained
Iranians are "intelligence officers" suspected of aiding the
anti-American insurgency.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said on Saturday that Iran
will make its position clear next week, complaining that the
conference risks "weakening" the positions of Iraq's neighbours.


"The definition of the Sharm el-Sheikh meeting weakens Iraq's
neighbours," Mottaki told the Kayhan daily. "Some decisions have
been made over which no consultations have been carried out
first."


The conference aims to create a framework within which world
powers and Iraq's neighbours can help Baghdad end the brutal
sectarian conflict that has killed tens of thousands of people
since last year.


To quell the bloodshed, most of which continues to be in Baghdad,
about 80,000 US and Iraq troops are patrolling the capital's mean
streets.


But on Friday, Gates warned Maliki that American troops will not
do so indefinitely.


"Our commitment to Iraq ... is not a commitment to have our young
men and women patrolling Iraqi streets open-endedly," he said,
adding that it was a strategy to give Maliki "time for progress
for justice and reconciliation."


The deaths of one more US and a Polish soldier in Iraq were
announced Saturday.

