

A US Army general in charge of an investigation into the killings
in the Iraqi town of Haditha has concluded that the Marine Corps
had ignored "obvious" signs of "serious misconduct" by its
troops, The Washington Post reported.


The newspaper said Major General Eldon Bargewell's report on
Haditha is scathing in its criticism of the Marines' actions,
from the enlisted men who were involved in the shootings on
November 19, 2005, to the two-star general who commanded the 2nd
Marine Division in Iraq at the time.


Twenty-four Iraqi civilians were killed in the town after the
marines went on a shooting spree, targeting unarmed men, women
and children after a comrade, Miguel Terrazaz, was killed by a
roadside bomb while on patrol.


Bargewell's previously undisclosed report obtained by The Post
found that officers may have willfully ignored reports of the
civilian deaths to protect themselves and their units from blame,
the paper said.


Though Bargewell found no specific coverup, he concluded that
there also was no interest at any level in investigating
allegations of a massacre, the report said.


"All levels of command tended to view civilian casualties, even
in significant numbers, as routine and as the natural and
intended result of insurgent tactics," the paper quotes Bargewell
as writing.


He condemned that approach because it could desensitize Marines
to the welfare of noncombatants.


"Statements made by the chain of command during interviews for
this investigation, taken as a whole, suggest that Iraqi civilian
lives are not as important as US lives, their deaths are just the
cost of doing business, and that the Marines need to get 'the job
done' no matter what it takes," the general pointed out.


Though Bargewell completed his secret report in June 2006, it has
not been publicly released because of ongoing criminal
investigations of three marines on murder allegations and four
marine officers who allegedly failed to look into the case, The
Post said.


Bargewell's report focuses on the reporting of the incident and
the training and command climate within the Marine Corps
leadership and does not address the actual incident in detail,
according to the paper.

