

The Sacramento Kings sacked coach Eric Musselman on Friday, two
days after their National Basketball Association season ended
without a trip to the playoffs.


The Kings lost 16 of their final 21 games en route to a 33-49
campaign and they missed the postseason for the first time since
1998.


"There is no particular joy in making this decision," said Kings
president of basketball of operations Geoff Petrie, who changed
coaches for the second time in as many years. "However, I feel it
is in the best interest of everyone going forward."


The hiring of Musselman, who signed a three-year, seven million-
dollar contract with the Kings, was a curious decision from the
start. He reportedly was chosen by owners Joe and Gavin Maloof
against the wishes of Petrie.


Under previous coach Rick Adelman, the Kings were a perennial
playoff team, won two Pacific Division titles and reached the
2002 Western Conference finals.


But Adelman was fired last spring after the Kings lost to San
Antonio in six games in the first round of the playoffs.


Musselman's tenure got off to rocky start when he was arrested on
a drunken- drive charge on October 20. He later pleaded no
contest to the charge and served a two-game suspension in
February.


With virtually the same roster Adelman had to work with last
season, Musselman, 42, watched his team underachieve virtually
the entire campaign.  The Kings fell below .500 for good in early
December.


After an 11-6 stretch from late January to early March got them
back in the playoff race, the Kings limped to the finish line,
often playing without energy.


A defensive-minded coach, Musselman failed to live up that
reputation with the Kings, who allowed 103.1 points per game to
rank 24th in the league. The average was well up from last
season, when they gave up 97.3 points to rank 17th overall.


Whoever takes over for Musselman does have a talented trio build
around in point guard Mike Bibby, controversial forward Ron
Artest and guard Kevin Martin. However, Bibby who has been with
the team for the last six seasons, could opt out of his contract.

