

Mark Calcavecchia turned in another bogey-free effort on Friday
to take the halfway lead in the 6.1 million-dollar Zurich Classic


The 1989 British Open champion, who is seeking his second victory
of 2007 and the 14th US Tour title of his career, fired a steady
three-under 69 for a nine- under total of 135.


The American veteran was one shot in front of Lucas Glover and
Nick Watney. Glover also signed for a 69, while Watney recorded a
67 at the TPC Louisiana.


"It's a miracle I don't have any bogeys yet, considering some of
the places I hit it today," Calcavecchia said. "I made about four
unbelievable pars, and then a 30-footer at the last.


"You know, it doesn't happen very often, but I believe I shot
about the lowest score humanly possible today, considering the
places I was," added the 46-year- old.


Calcavecchia parred his first six holes despite a two wayward
shots at six.


After a birdie at the seventh, he survived another trip to a
bunker before posting a pair of birdies on the back nine to jump
into the lead.


"My first one was on No. 6, where I yanked a 3-wood and it
somehow didn't kick in the water, and then I hit it in the front
bunker but with a horrible lie and a bad stance, and I chunked
that out about 15 feet short and made that," Calcavecchia said as
he catalogued some of his worst shots of the day. "That was one
of them.


"On No. 8, I buried it in the side of the lip. I was standing a
foot above it, didn't even know if I could get it out, hacked it
out in the fairway 100 yards from the pin, hit that in there and
made an eight-footer for par."


PGA Tour rookie Kyle Reifers, who fired a course-record 64 on
Thursday, dropped into a tie for fourth with Charley Hoffman, two
shots behind after signing for a 73.


Starting on the back nine, the 23-year-old American bogeyed two
of his first six holes.


"It was just a struggle out there," Reifers said. "You know, I
felt good, felt comfortable, didn't have much ... many things go
my way. I hit a lot of good putts that I thought kind of wobbled
around and just didn't go in."


Despite the second-round slide, Reifers - who missed the cut in
three of the previous six events in which he has played this
season - is still happy to be in the hunt.


"That's all you can ask for," he said. "I want to get on that
back nine on Sunday and have a chance to win, be in contention,
so I didn't shoot myself in the foot too bad. Come out and play
two solid rounds and I'll be right there."


Three strokes off the pace were Wes Short (69), Paul Stankowski
(69), Steven Wheatcroft (70), Jason Schultz (71) and Sweden's
Daniel Chopra (68).


Also in the mix at five-under was Bubba Watson, who carded a 67
on Friday to rebound from an opening-round 72.


Defending champion Chris Couch just made the cut at 1-under after
following an even-par 72 in the opening round with a 71.


The tournament has returned to the 7,341-yard TPC Louisiana after
a one-year hiatus, during which the course was under repairs in
the wake of Hurricane Katrina.


Nearly 2,000 trees were lost due to the storm that devastated the
Gulf coast, and a number of holes were completely under water.


It took more than a year to get the course back into shape, and
the tournament was held last year at English Turn Golf and
Country Club.

