

A barrage of mortar bombs crashed into the Somali capital for the
fourth day on Saturday as Ethiopian army units battled Islamist
insurgents after a night of sporadic fire, residents said.


Ethiopian forces fired mortar shells and rockets from the
presidential palace in southern Mogadishu at several insurgents
hideouts, sparking a volley of retaliatory fire from insurgents.


Islamist insurgents and some of Mogadishu's clan warlords have
vowed to oust the Ethiopians who helped the UN-backed
transitional government in January to expell the Somali Council
of Islamic Courts from the city last year.


The rivals exchanged heavy machinegun fire in the northern Fagah
district  and areas near the main Bakara market.


There was sporadic shelling in several districts overnight, but
casualty figures could not be established, residents said.


"The Ethiopian forces are shelling Bakara market, mortars are
landing everywhere and at this moment, we do not know what to
do," said Hashim Ali Mohamed, who lives in southern Mogadishu.


The United Nations said at least 321,000 people had fled the city
since February, one of the largest exodus from the seaside
capital since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


On Friday the United Nations warned of a humanitarian catastrophe
with corpses left rotting in the streets, where rival fighters
continued pounding each other with heavy artillery.


Local human rights groups said the latest fighting has killed at
least 113 civilians and wounded 229 others in three days of
clashes and warned that the toll could rise dramatically if a
truce was not reached.


Some 1,500 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda deployed in
Mogadishu since early March have failed to stem the surge in
violence. They have instead taken positions in the main airport,
sea port, presidential palace and a key access road to the
airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to deploy in Somalia to
help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed expand his tenuous grip on
the country.


UN chief Ban Ki-moon pressed on Friday for world support for
African peacekeepers but warned that pursuing military solutions
in Mogadishu was likely to be "counter-productive."

