

A gunman killed a male hostage and himself at NASA's Johnson
Space Center Friday, just days after 33 people died in the
bloodiest school shooting in US history.


A female hostage was found bound with duct tape but otherwise
unharmed nearly four hours after the standoff began, police said.


Police believe the hostage was killed at about 1:40 pm (18:40
GMT) when a shot was fired inside a communications and
engineering building on the sprawling campus.


The building was evacuated as the man barricaded himself inside a
room in Building 44.


Police tried to negotiate with the man but all they heard from
the room was another gunshot.


When they rushed in the room they found the two men dead and the
woman bound at her hands and ankles.


"The suspect shot himself one time to the head. He appears to be
deceased at this time," Houston police captain Dwayne Ready said
at a press conference.


"Also on the same floor, there was one other hostage that was
shot. We believe that may have occurred in the early minutes of
this whole ordeal," he said.


Ready said the bound woman was being "looked at by our
paramedics."


NASA officials said mission operations were not interrupted by
the incident. An e-mail was immediately sent out to all employees
telling them to shelter in place.


Once officials realized the situation had been contained to the
one building a second e-mail was sent out telling employees they
could go home whenever they wished.


"We have a standard set of security rules that do include random
vehicle searches," NASA spokeswoman Eileen Hawley said at the
press conference.


"Certainly, I would believe that our security and our senior
leadership is going to take a very close look at this incident,
and see if there was anything that we should have done or could
have done differently."


The sprawling Johnson Space Center campus is home to the mission
control center for space shuttle missions.


The shooting happened while the nation was mourning the 32 people
shot dead by a South Korean student at Virginia Tech University
on Monday.

