

Japanese superstar Daisuke Matsuzaka brought plenty of big-game
experience to the major leagues, and he'll need it Sunday when he
is thrown into the fire of the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry.


Matsuzaka is scheduled to start Sunday in the finale of a three
game series between the American League East rivals, who are
clashing for the first time this season.


"The litmus test for him is, he's pitched his best in the biggest
games of his life," said Curt Schilling, who got the start in
Friday's opening game of the series.


"This is going to be fun for him. . . . I've talked to him. He is
looking forward to this."


Matsuzaka said the challenge reminded him of his arrival in
Japan's pro league as a young star fresh out of high school.


"It is a funny thing to say that I've experienced a similar thing
when I started playing in the professional baseball league in
Japan right out of high school with a lot of expectations placed
on me," Matsuzaka said.


"Maybe it is too much to say that I am used to it, but I
definitely don't feel too much pressure, and more importantly, I
think that I want to respond to those expectations by performing
well on the field."


Expectations have been high ever since the Red Sox shelled out
more than 100 million dollars to get him, including 51 million
dollars just for the right to negotiate with him.


Their bid for negotiating rights topped that of the Yankees by
nearly 20 million dollars, and Boston manager Terry Francona
acknowledged that the club's determination to get Matsuzaka was
at least partly motivated by a desire to keep the Yankees from
getting him.


"I understand now exactly why sights were set on Daisuke and why
he was viewed as the one way to get our team right back to where
it needed to be . . . after a disappointing season," Francona
said this week.


"There are guys who can throw six pitches, but have command of
none of them. He's the complete opposite. I've never seen a guy
with this much repertoire and able to command all of it.


"We also knew that if the Yankees got Daisuke, we'd be in real
trouble," Francona added.

