

The only sounds for several minutes were muffled sobs as about
1,000 people huddled here Friday on a US campus field dotted with
make-shift memorials to pay tribute to 32 slain.


When the expected loud ringing of bells did not come due to a
technical problem, the crowd gathered at Virginia Tech simply
prayed and hugged and then watched solemnly as 32 balloons soared
into the skies.


Each one bore up into the sunny skies the name of one of the 27
students and five teachers gunned down on Monday in a murderous
rampage by South Korean-born Cho Seung-Hui.


"It tears me up. I've been trying to close myself all week," said
biology senior John Schwartz, a longtime resident of Blacksburg.


He had brought his wife and four sons, all dressed in the maroon
and orange university colors, to the memorial.


"We want our kids to remember this," his wife Amy said. "They saw
Blacksburg love each other."


Finally the tear-stained silence was broken with an impromptu
cheer as the crowd took up the university's clarion call to roar:
"Let's go -- Hokies, let's go -- Hokies."


As the crowds drifted apart, many embraced long-unseen friends. A
religious group was even offering free hugs, and had plenty of
takers.


Others placed flowers on 32 stones arranged in a semicircle on
the drill field, each adorned with a US flag and a basket of
fresh spring bulbs waiting to bloom.


Similar scenes were played out around the nation, with many
communities ringing bells and holding religious services in a
show of support for the university, known nationally as a
collegiate sports powerhouse with fiercely dedicated fans, the
Hokies.


Lyle Hartsock, who graduated from Virginia Tech in 1985 with a
degree in electrical engineering, drove up from Nickelsville, 225
kilometers (140 miles) to the southwest, for the memorial,
wearing a weathered Virginia Tech football jersey and a gold
graduate's ring from the university.


"When I saw this on the news I was just heartsick," the burly
power company employee said of Monday's tragedy.


"I stood at some of these places" where Cho launched his shooting
spree before committing suicide, he recalled of his university
years.


At one end of the drill-field, the university's 600-strong
Association of Chinese Students and Scholars had laid out white
sheets for people to pen thoughts and prayers for the dead.


"We feel we need to show our sadness and sympathy," said
association president Xue Hong, a native of Chengdu in Sichuan
province and a doctoral candidate in economics.


"We also lost friends," he said, as dozens of Chinese students
pressed banknotes and checks into a box to collect money for the
families of the dead.


Christine Backhus and Katie Willson, who with other friends
decided at the last moment to launch the maroon and orange
balloons at noon, could not hold back their tears.


"You think you've cried it all out, and then there's more," said
Backhus, a senior in psychology from Centreville, Virginia, the
town Cho also called home.

