

The dollar firmed slightly against other currencies Friday but
remained close to its all-time low against the euro and 26-year
lows against sterling as traders consolidated ahead of the
weekend.


Analysts said traders would await fresh data on economic momentum
in the United States in the coming week, which would offer
further clues on the directions of interest rates.


The euro fetched 1.3590 dollars at 2100 GMT from 1.3609 late
Thursday, after flirting with its historic record of 1.3666
dollars set on December 30, 2004. It had risen as high of 1.3637
dollars in trading Friday.


The dollar was changing hands at 118.66 yen, against 118.50 yen
on Thursday.


Sterling meanwhile edged lower to 2.0026 dollars after 2.0032 a
day earlier, near its highest level against the dollar since
1981.


Scotiabank analyst Camilla Sutton said that after the greenback
fell 0.6 percent in the past week against a basket of other
currencies, many are expecting further weakness in response to a
softening economic picture.


"Data last week continued to support our view that the US economy
is weakening," she said in a note to clients.


In the face of this situation, she said, "Our view continues to
be that the Fed (Federal Reserve) will be forced to cut rates
twice in 2007, whereas the market expects one cut in 2007."


The surging euro meanwhile has led to some angst in the eurozone
among officials who worry that a high currency will hurt exports
and the region's fragile recovery.


In Berlin, finance ministers from the 13-nation eurozone shrugged
off the surging strength of the euro.


"The growth situation in our area is improving, is robust, is
broadening," said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker
after chairing a meeting of eurozone finance ministers and
central bankers in Berlin.


However ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet reiterated that
excessive exchange rate volatility is "undesirable."


The prospect of rising interest rates in the eurozone has
propelled the euro higher against other major currencies as many
investors borrow in low interest rate currencies for higher-
yielding euro-denominated investments.


Many investors are switching away from the dollar because
American borrowing costs appeared to be heading lower, dealers
said.


Owing to strengthening European economies, particularly in
Germany, analysts believe the European Central Bank will likely
raise rates soon from the current level of 3.75 percent. In
contrast, many market watchers reckon the US Federal Reserve will
cut rates from the current 5.25 percent.


"As long as the ECB needs to hike interest rates euro-bearish
comments will only have a minor impact," analysts at BNP Paribas
told Thomson Financial's AFX newswire.


Robert Brusca at FAO Economics said the eurozone may see some
troubles ahead from the high level of the currency.


"The eurozone will have to succeed in world markets in an
environment where some of its fast growing customers will slow:
China, OPEC and the US," he said. "How can Europe also deal with
a stronger currency in those circumstances?"


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2082 Swiss francs
from 1.2044 on Thursday.

