

A NASA contractor took two co-workers hostage at Johnson Space
Center Friday, killing one of them before turning the revolver on
himself, officials said, just days after the bloodiest school
shooting in US history.


Bill Phillips, an engineer with Jacobs Engineering who has worked
for NASA for about 12 years, barricaded himself inside the
building after managing to sneak a revolver past security at the
sprawling space center campus, police and NASA officials said.


Phillips shot David Beverly in the chest, killing the NASA
employee, and later shot himself in the head inside Building 44,
a communications and engineering facility, officials said.


The second hostage, Fran Crenshaw, a NASA contract worker, was
found duct-taped to a chair a few hours after the standoff began.
She was treated at a hospital and released.


Police had tried to negotiate with the man but all they heard
from the room was another gunshot. When they rushed in the room
they found the two men dead and the woman bound at her hands and
ankles.


All three were electrical engineers in their early 50s who knew
each other,  and they may even had had lunch together earlier in
the day, Johnson Space Center director Michael Coates told a news
conference.


Officials did not know the motive behind the killing.


"Apparently there was some type of dispute between" Phillips and
Beverly, Houston Police Chief Howard Hurtt told reporters.


Phillips lived alone, was not married and had no children,
officials said.


"Up until recently he has been a good employee," Coates said.


Coates said NASA had reviewed its security procedures, which were
beefed up after the September 11, 2001 terror attacks, in the
wake of Monday's massacre at Virginia Tech University but decided
they did not need further tightening.


"We never believed this could happen to our family here," Coates
said.


Visitors and employees need badges to get into the space center,
which is home to the space shuttle's mission control, and cars
are randomly checked for bombs. Guns are not allowed in the
complex.


"We have a standard set of security rules that do include random
vehicle searches," NASA spokeswoman Eileen Hawley said at an
earlier press conference.


"Certainly, I would believe that our security and our senior
leadership is going to take a very close look at this incident,
and see if there was anything that we should have done or could
have done differently."


NASA officials said mission operations were not interrupted by
the incident.


NASA chief Michael Griffin headed to the center after the
shooting, the space agency said.


President George W. Bush was kept informed throughout the
standoff, the White House said.


"The president was deeply saddened to hear about the loss of life
and he will pray for the family members and co-workers, who
surely must be shocked and grieving," White House spokesman Tony
Fratto told AFP.


NASA was rocked earlier this year when an astronaut was accused
of driving hundreds for kilometers (miles) -- wearing a diaper to
avoid stopping during the trip from Houston to Florida -- to
kidnap a rival for the affection of a space shuttle pilot.


In March, Lisa Nowak, who flew on a shuttle mission last year and
was fired last month, pleaded not guilty to an attempted
kidnapping charge stemming from the incident.


Friday's shooting happened while the nation was mourning the 32
people shot dead by a South Korean student who killed himself
after his rampage at Virginia Tech University on Monday.

