

Investors fear that five years of political stability in Turkey,
which slashed chronic inflation and helped launch accession talks
with the European Union, may be jeopardized if Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan runs for the presidency, analysts said.


In the coming weeks, the Turkish parliament will elect a
successor to President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, who retires on May 16,
and many here believe Erdogan, a conservative politician with an
Islamist past, will make a move for the country's top job.


The ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) holds a
comfortable majority in parliament so if he runs, Erdogan will be
elected, despite opposition by the secular establishment of this
overwhelmingly Muslim country.


"The presidential election matters only to the extent that it
affects the outcome of parliamentary elections in autumn," said
Memhmet Simsek, emerging markets economist and strategist at
Merrill Lynch.


For the markets, an AKP without the charismatic Erdogan at the
helm could translate into fewer votes for the party in general
elections scheduled for November, raising the possibility of a
coalition government.


"The general investor view is that if Erdogan announces his
candidacy for the presidency, the AKP would suffer, because
Erdogan enjoys more popularity than his party does," said Yarkin
Cebeci, a senior economist at JP Morgan.


The AKP stormed to power with a nearly two-thirds parliamentary
majority in 2002, ending more than a decade of weak coalition
governments under which the economy plunged into one of its worst
recessions.


Since then, Turkey has staged an impressive economic recovery
under a 10 -billion-dollar International Monetary Fund (IMF)
stand-by deal, which expires next year.


Inflation, which stood at 29.7 percent in 2002, was reduced to
9.65 percent in 2006, and economic growth averaged more than
seven percent between 2003 and 2006, compared with an average of
2.6 percent in the decade leading to 2002.


Foreign direct investment (FDI) was around 20 billion dollars
last year, compared to an average 1.1 billion dollars in the
decade to 2002, and public debt stock was reduced to 45 percent
of gross national product in 2006 from 78 percent in 2002.


It was also under the AKP government that Ankara achieved its
four-decade dream of starting EU membership talks.


Recent surveys say four parties will cross the 10-percent
threshold to win parliamentary seats in the November elections,
compared to only two in 2002, with the AKP garnering the most
votes.


"For all investors, the best-case scenario is an AKP majority
government, but a coalition government with AKP as the senior
partner and a market-friendly party as the junior partner would
not be bad," Ozgur Altug, chief economist at Raymond James, said.


"Such a government could commit itself to both IMF and EU
reforms," he added.


But a coalition with more than two partners in which it may be
difficult to reconcile policy differences "could be perceived as
catastrophic," he said.


If Erdogan decides to run, initial market reaction would be
"negative but temporary," Altug said.


Political stability is crucial as Turkey needs to address
remaining weaknesses in its booming 400-billion-dollar economy,
such as a record current account deficit of 31.3 billion dollars
in 2006.


"Only further progress on structural reforms, which is necessary
to improve productivity and long-term growth, can help Turkey
achieve a durably better macroeconomic performance," Simsek said.


"Favourable global liquidity conditions and strong FDI inflows
should help Turkey live with a large current account deficit in
2007, but a soft landing largely depends on whether parliamentary
elections generate a strong and reformist government," he added.


On the other hand, a president working hand in hand with the
goverment would bolster the reform drive, he said.


Outgoing President Sezer, a stauchly secular former judge, has
several times vetoed key legislation drafted by Erdogan's
government, such as an IMF-sought social security reform, whose
implementation has been delayed until after general elections.

