

The French presidential election campaign ended Friday with the
last opinion polls showing right winger Nicolas Sarkozy ahead of
socialist Segolene Royal but the overall contest too close to
call.


All 12 candidates made a final case to millions of undecided
voters before Sunday's first round of voting to choose two rivals
for a runoff vote on May 6.


The official campaign ended at midnight (2200 GMT) Friday. No
more political rallies were allowed and opinion polls could not
be published until voting ends on Sunday night.


In the last five surveys published before the ban, Sarkozy was
credited with between 26.5 and 30 percent of voter intentions.
Royal had between 22.5 and 25.5 percent.


Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou got 18 and 20 percent in two
polls, but in one got only 16 percent and was beaten by far-right
leader Jean-Marie Le Pen.


The other eight candidates were far behind.


One poll by CSA-CISCO showed Royal and Sarkozy level at 50
percent each in the second round. Most have made Sarkozy the
favourite to win in the second round, though Royal made gains in
the final polls.


The leading candidates used their last rallies to appeal to the
third of the 44.5 million voters that pollsters say are still
undecided. According to a BVA institute poll published late
Friday, 10 percent of voters said they would choose a candidate
Saturday and a quarter on Sunday's polling day.


Sarkozy, 52, head of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement
(UMP) and former interior minister, visited a bull ranch in
southern France, posing for photographers in jeans and checkered
shirt.


He said in one interview that the campaign had been "intense". "A
presidential campaign is of course very demanding, but I don't
feel exhausted, I have not come to the end, I still have things
to say."


Royal, a 53-year-old former environment minister who wants to be
France's first woman president, went on a walkabout in Paris with
the capital's socialist mayor Bertrand Delanoe before a final
meeting with 5,000 supporters in Poitier.


She urged "all those who have republican and humanist values" to
vote for her in round one "because the history of France must be
written with the largest number of citizens."


Bayrou, the 55-year-old leader of the small Union for French
Democracy (UDF), visited the World War I cemetery and memorial at
Verdun, where he highlighted polls that say he is the only
candidate who can beat Sarkozy in the second round.


With Sarkozy seemingly assured by opinion polls of a place in the
decisive second round, speculation is focussing on who will come
in second on Sunday.


Royal has been consistently placed a few points ahead of Bayrou,
but analysts say left-wing voters could switch tactically to
Bayrou in order to keep out Sarkozy.


Another unknown is the level of support for Le Pen, 78, who says
that his poll rating of between 12 and 16.5 percent
underestimates his true vote.


In the 2002 election, Le Pen transfixed the world when he beat
socialist candidate Lionel Jospin in round one -- despite polls
that had put him well behind in the run-up.


France is choosing a successor to Jacques Chirac -- who has been
president since 1995 -- in an election seen as one of the most
exciting and important in recent times.


All three main candidates come from a new generation of political
leaders, and all claim to represent a radical break from the
past. All describe France as a country in crisis with massive
debt, high unemployment, low income levels and simmering discord
in the riot-hit suburbs.


In Sarkozy and Royal, voters face a clear choice between a right-
wing programme based on free-market ideas and a left-winger
promising to safeguard the country's "social model".


Voting starts on Saturday for some 882,000 citizens in overseas
French dependencies and expatriates in the Americas.


Also running in the election are three Trotskyites, a Communist,
a Green and anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The other two
are a hunters' rights candidate and the Catholic nationalist
Philippe de Villiers.

