

A Cairo court on Saturday sentenced an Egyptian with Canadian
citizenship to 15 years behind bars for spying for Israel, based
on a confession the defendant said was extracted by torture.


Judge Sayyed al-Gohary of Cairo's high state security court
sentenced Mohammed Essam Ghoneim al-Attar, 31, and three Israelis
tried in absentia, to 15 years in prison and fines of 10,000
Egyptian pounds (1,760 dollars) each.


Throughout his trial which began in February, Attar protested his
innocence, claiming that Egyptian security services extracted his
confession by torture.


"The accused followed the path of the devil and sold himself and
his nation to (the devil)," Gohary told the court during the
lightning 10-minute session.


Prosecutors charged that Attar was recruited by his three Israeli
co-defendants when he visited Turkey on a tourist visa in 2001.


The prosecution said Attar was trained by the Mossad officers to
gather information from Arabs living in Turkey -- an activity he
later continued when he moved to Canada, where he obtained
citizenship.


Attar was charged with espionage, bribery and recruiting Arabs
abroad for foreign intelligence services.


"A sinful meeting brought him with the three (Israelis), which
led to him filing reports on the activities of Egyptians and
Arabs for eventual recruitment in the Mossad, harming Egypt's
national interest," the judge told the court.


Attar, a former student at Cairo's Islamic Al-Azhar University,
was arrested while visiting his family in Cairo on January 1.


He was described in the press as a homosexual -- considered a sin
in Islam and a taboo subject in Egypt -- and as a convert to
Christianity, also a sensitive issue in the mainly Muslim
country.


"He changed religion and converted to Christianity. He is no gain
to either of these religions," Gohary said.


During the trial, Attar insisted that he was neither a spy nor a
Christian convert, and loudly recited the "shehada" -- the Muslim
declaration of faith -- during one hearing.


In February, Attar said he had been treated well by police, but
that the intelligence service tortured him into a making up a
story of espionage, which he borrowed from an Egyptian comic
book.


"I accuse one man from national security, Nabil Mahmud. He made
me sign a document saying that I'd cooperated with a fictional
character called Daniel Levy," Attar told reporters at the time.


One of the three Israelis has the same name, and Egypt has asked
Interpol to arrest him and the two others, who are said to be of
Turkish origin.


"I am sad about the verdict because I am convinced of (Attar's)
innocence," his lawyer Ibrahim al-Bassiouni said on Saturday,
adding that Attar received a light sentence. "Usually in cases
like this one expects 75 years."


According to a Canadian newspaper, Attar told Egyptian
interrogators he recruited several gay or financially strapped
Arabs for Mossad while he was living in Canada.


A transcript of his interrogation in Egypt, viewed by The Globe
and Mail newspaper, alleged that Attar was a gay Zionist who
turned his back on Islam and worked with the Israeli spy agency
to undermine Egyptian security.


According to the paper, he cited his new religion and
homosexuality in applying for UN refugee status, which eventually
led him to Canada.


Attar has repeatedly insisted that he moved to Canada three years
ago after a row with his parents, and that he moved back to Egypt
in January because it is "home."

