

The United Nations will push through an international court to
try suspects in the murder of former Lebanese premier Rafiq
Hariri if the political deadlock in Beirut continues, the UN's
top legal adviser warned in comments published Saturday.


"If the statutes of the tribunal laid out in the accord between
the United Nations and the Lebanese government are not ratified
in accordance with Lebanese constitutional procedures, other ways
will have to be found," Nicolas Michel told the Lebanese dailies
An-Nahar and As-Safir.


"In such a case I would see no other legal solution than recourse
to Chapter Seven," he said. This would mean imposing UN Security
Council resolutions and obliging states to accept and apply them.


"But that would definitely not be under Article 42 which
authorises the use of force to impose resolutions, but under
Article 41" which makes no reference to the use of force, Michel
added.


"Anyway, the UN commission of inquiry was created under Article
41, which means all member states must cooperate with it."


Michel said that the Hariri tribunal's terms of reference would
not include crimes that are not linked to his murder, and that
Hezbollah fears of an extension of its competence were unfounded.


"It is impossible to examine other cases because, according to
the statutes, the court's competence is determined by time. It
begins on October 1, 2004 (date of the attempted assassination of
anti-Syrian MP Marwan Hamadeh) and includes the attacks that
followed" if it turns out that the events are linked.


"That was specified notably so the tribunal's constitution would
have a deterrent effect against the cycle of violence continuing
in Lebanon," Michel said.


The attempt to kill Hamadeh was followed by 14 political murders
or attempted assassinations in Lebanon.


Michel said that Syria has "been informed of" the special court's
statutes, and that it had submitted "verbal observations."
Damascus has indicated that it will not allow Syrians to appear
before the tribunal.


On Friday during his four-day visit Michel called for a return to
dialogue in divided Lebanon and for the prompt creation of the
tribunal.


After his arrival in Beirut on Tuesday, he met all prominent
Lebanese leaders in a bid to unblock months of political
paralysis preventing the court from being established.


The agreement between the United Nations and the government of
Western-backed Prime Minister Fuad Siniora was followed by the
resignation last November of six pro-Damascus cabinet ministers.


Since then, the pro-Syrian speaker of parliament, Nabih Berri,
has refused to convene parliament to ratify the creation of the
special court.


Lebanon's anti-Damascus parliamentary majority accuses the
opposition of trying to protect Syria, which has denied any
involvement in Hariri's murder on February 14, 2005.


The billionaire former premier and 22 other people were killed by
a massive bomb widely blamed on Syria, which was then forced to
end nearly 30 years of military and political domination in
Lebanon.


The Lebanese majority has demanded recourse to Chapter Seven of
the UN Charter in the Hariri affair.

