

Raphael Jacquelin held on to his spot atop the leaderboard of the
BMW Asian Open after an exciting third round here Saturday, that
saw the field close in on the ice-cool Frenchman.


Jacquelin, who has led the tournament from the start, saw his
three-shot overnight lead quickly eroded as a host of players
took advantage of the calm weather, with Scot Simon Yates
shooting a course record-equalling eight-under 64.


However, Jacquelin managed three birdies alongside two bogeys on
the back nine to finish with a two-under 70 and go into the final
round at 11-under, one stroke ahead of Australian Scott Hend, who
shot a 67.


Despite his only win in 12 years as a professional coming in 2005
at the Madrid Open, Jacquelin gave no indication that he would be
overcome by nerves on Sunday.


"I'm excited every time I'm on the leaderboard, especially when
I'm playing on the final day," the 32-year-old said with a smile.


"I'm pretty calm normally. That's the way I play. I try to stay
calm. I'll try to have some fun out there. I'll have some fun
with my caddie if things are difficult."


Yates' blistering performance gave him a share of third spot at
nine-under, alongside Sweden's Joakim Backstrom and Soren
Kjeldsen of Denmark, who both carded 68s.


Eight-time European Order of Merit champion Colin Montgomerie of
Scotland was a stroke further back after shooting a 69, alongside
Australia's Markus Brier and Denmark's Soren Hansen.


World number five Ernie Els, the highest ranked player at the
2.3-million dollar tournament, is five shots adrift of Jacquelin.


But, thanks to consecutive birdies on the 15th, 16th and 17th
holes, the "Big Easy" said he had given himself a chance to win
his second Asian Open, after capturing the title in 2005 by a
record margin of 13 strokes.


"I have a really good shot at it tomorrow but I still have to
shoot quite low," Els said, adding he was relieved that his
putting finally came good after a frustrating first couple of
days on the greens.


"I am just glad I made a few putts on the back nine as I have not
holed anything all week."


Montgomerie is the other big name in with a shot on Sunday, but
he was disgusted at himself after his poor form with the putter
cost him dearly.


"I missed five putts today and if I don't win tomorrow it is
because of that," he said.


Hend, aged 33, who was runner-up at last week's Volvo China Open,
was much more upbeat after his round of five-under left him in
outright second place.


"I just played pretty solid today, it was nice. I didn't try to
do anything silly," said Hend, who is resurrecting his career
after a horrible 2006 that saw him lose his US PGA Tour card and
suffer a left arm injury.


With heavy rain forecast for Sunday, tee-off times for the final
round were brought forward to early morning, and the wet weather
was a hot topic of discussion for the leading players.


"It's going to be tough for everybody if it rains very hard. It's
going to make the course a lot longer," Jacquelin said.


One of other top draws for spectators in Shanghai, Englishman
Paul Casey, withdrew from the tournament with a neck injury after
shooting a 77 on Saturday that left him at four-over.

