

Former premier Khaleda Zia faced increasing isolation Saturday as
she prepared for exile amid a battle to succeed her as head of
the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), a report said.


Party sources told the leading independent Daily Star newspaper
several senior BNP leaders were planning to make a grab for the
leadership if Zia was forced into exile.


At least three groups of BNP leaders had also held secret
meetings to review the crisis, the paper added.


Zia was said to be angry at the apparent disloyalty of some
senior BNP figures.


"The party chief (Zia) is highly annoyed with the senior leaders
for not taking any move at the time of her distress, particularly
when the authorities are forcing her to go into exile," the
report quoted an unnamed top-ranking BNP leader as saying.


Zia, whose five-year term as prime minister ended last October,
is being pushed into exile in Saudi Arabia by the emergency-ruled
country's new government.


The military-backed government is waging a campaign to clean up
Bangladeshi politics before holding fresh elections.


Her departure appeared to be imminent after she visited her elder
son Tareque on Saturday at Dhaka central jail where he is being
held on corruption allegations, a private television channel
reported.


Zia, who has been under virtual house arrest since last week, is
reported to have agreed to go abroad in return for leniency for
her two sons. Her younger son Arafat Rahaman was briefly arrested
on corruption allegations last week.


The government has also barred Sheikh Hasina Wajed, leader of the
other main political party, the Awami League from returning from
a holiday in the United States.


Murder and extortion charges were also filed against her in her
absence.


Both leaders stand accused of misrule that led to a political
crisis earlier this year.


The crisis followed a political impasse reached in January, amid
spiralling violence, in which the Awami League accused the BNP of
seeking to rig elections.


As a result, President Iajuddin Ahmed, head of an interim
government tasked with holding fair elections resigned on January
11, imposed emergency rule, and cancelled the polls.


The new interim government was installed the following day and
has won popular support for its anti-graft drive and efforts to
exile the two party leaders.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina, known as the "battling begums" for their
longstanding personal rivalry, have ruled the country alternately
since democracy was reinstated in 1991. Begum is a Muslim
honorific.


The pair represent rival political dynasties that have dominated
the political landscape since the country won independence in
1971.


Zia is the widow of Ziaur Rahman, a former president, who was
assassinated in an attempted military coup in 1981.


Sheikh Hasina is the daughter of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the
nation's independence leader and first premier and president. He
was murdered along with most of his family in a military coup in
1975.

