

Taliban holding two French aid workers hostage in southern
Afghanistan have called for the withdrawal of French NATO troops
and the freeing of imprisoned militants in exchange for their
release, in a statement on their website.


The statement, published Friday, demanded the "French government
withdraw its soldiers from Afghanistan in one week" and called on
the Kabul administration "for a rapid response with regard to an
exchange of prisoners."


Around 1,000 French troops are deployed in the Kabul region as
part of the NATO force.


Paris said Friday night it was analysing the demands, the first
to be made publicly.


"We have taken note of the instructions which figure in the
Taliban website. We are analysing them," said French foreign
ministry spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mattei.


"We will not make any other comments."


The statement, published in English, has not been authenticated.


Its release two days ahead of the first round of the French
presidential election on Sunday sharply increases the pressure on
Paris to find a solution to the hostage crisis.


The two hostages, from the Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our
Children) charity, were identified only as Celine and Eric.


They were seized in the southwestern province of Nimroz on April
3 along with three Afghan colleagues.


Authorities say the five hostages were then transferred to
neighbouring Helmand province, a Taliban stronghold.


In a videotape message broadcast a week ago, the two French
hostages said they feared for their lives and urged the French
government to give in to the kidnappers' demands.


Paris has in recent days stepped up diplomatic efforts to secure
their freedom.


Senior French diplomat Philippe Faure met this week with Afghan
President Hamid Karzai, and conveyed Paris's strong desire to
secure the freedom of all five hostages as soon as possible, said
Mattei.


French President Jacques Chirac telephoned his Afghan counterpart
Thursday to discuss their fate.


The Taliban made similar demands ahead of the release of the
kidnapped Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo.


Karzai has said that his government will not make any more
hostage deals with the rebels following the controversial freeing
of five rebels last month in exchange for Mastrogiacomo's
release.


The deal generated outrage as the Italian journalist's Afghan
driver and interpreter were beheaded. The gruesome killings were
filmed. Mastrogiacomo was seen urging Rome to "do something."


The Islamist militia was ousted from power in a US-led invasion
in 2001.


In addition to the 1,000 French soldiers in Afghanistan, French
fighter jets have been deployed in support of ground troops
fighting the Taliban.

