

A Spanish cycling armada is threatening to spoil Dutch hopes of
securing an elusive victory in the Amstel Gold Race this Sunday.


The eighth race on the Pro Tour, and the fifth one-dayer of the
series is the only Dutch race on the calendar apart from the
Eindhoven time trial.


But the hosts's annual expectation of seeing a tough challenge
from the orange- clad home riders, most of whom ride for
Rabobank, has taken on special significance this year.


Former winner Michael Boogerd will saddle up for his home race
for the final time having announced in midweek that he will
retire at the end of the season.


Boogerd, who will be 35 next month, turned pro in 1994 and over
the past decade has dominated Dutch cycling along with Erik
Dekker, winning stages in the Tour de France as well as finishing
fifth overall in 1998.


"I want to finish this season in style, starting on Sunday,"
warned Boogerd, who last won at Amstel in 1999 and has since
appeared on the podium a remarkable, but agonising, seven times.


Statistically, Amstel has the most climbs of any race on the
European calendar.


And while each is not too long or difficult, the total of 31
climbs means Amstel is best suited to those who at least have the
legs to manage that kind of repetitive effort.


Given the Spanish contingent's recent performances at the Tour of
the Basque country, where the hills are steeper, longer and much
more punishing, Boogerd will have to be vigilant throughout the
252.km race.


Spanish ace Alejandro Valverde is a big favourite, having been
one of the protagonists in the Basque country where he finished
fifth overall.


Valverde could be trying to set up a winning streak beginning
Sunday and ending with victory at Liege-Bastogne-Liege in two
weeks' time.


The Spaniard won the 2006 edition of Liege-Bastogne-Liege, one of
the most prestigious scalps to claim because it is the oldest
one-day classic in existence.


Days before that victory, Valverde won Fleche Wallonne, which
will be raced this Wednesday.


Ahead of his bid to add Amstel to his list, the Caisse d'Epargne
ace will in turn be keeping a close eye on at least two of his
compatriots.


Saunier Duval pair Juan Jose Cobo, 26, and Jose Angel Gomez
Marchante danced with surprising ease over the tough hills in the
Basque country where Cobo took the overall win and two stages.


Italian Riccardo Ricco, 23, is another contender.


Like Cobo, he has stormed his way into the European peloton and
his climbing prowess at the Tirreno-Adriatico stage race, then at
Milan-San Remo, means he can throw his hat into the Amstel ring.


CSC's defending champion Frank Schleck of Luxemburg, Euskaltel's
Samuel Sanchez - another Basque Country performer - and Italian
Danilo Di Luca will all be looking to finish triumphantly atop
the final cliumb at Cauberg.


"I'm very close to prime condition," warned Di Luca, who rides
for Liquigas.


All Dutch eyes meanwhile will be on Rabobank veteran Boogerd,
known affectionately as "Boogie", who will have the unflinching
support of Spanish team-mate and three-time world champion Oscar
Freire.

