

Residents of the remote Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan will be
voting for the first time in the country's history Saturday in
"dummy" elections designed as a warm- up for democratic change.


Authorities in in the "Land of the Thunder Dragon" are hoping to
teach people how a parliamentary democracy actually works, ahead
of their planned transformation of the country next year from
absolute monarchy to democracy.


"We are ready for the dummy elections and hope the turnout is
encouraging," Dasho Kunzang Wangdi, Bhutan's chief election
commissioner, told AFP by telephone from the capital, Thimphu,
ahead of the vote.


Real elections for a new parliament are due to be held in 2008,
the culmination of a plan by former king Jigme Singye Wangchuck
-- who handed his crown to his young Oxford-educated son, Jigme
Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, in December -- to change with the times
and relinquish absolute rule.


This is in contrast to King Gyanendra in the nearby Himalayan
kingdom of Nepal, who made an ill-fated attempt to take
dictatorial powers and now risks seeing his monarchy dismantled.


For the dummy polls, voters have nevertheless been spared having
to figure out which party to chose from -- the challengers being
the fictional Druk (Thunder Dragon) Blue Party, the Druk Green
Party, the Druk Red Party and the Druk Yellow Party.


"Although this is a mock election we are taking it very
seriously," a senior police official in Thimphu said. "We are
here to ensure smooth conduct of the polls."


Home to 600,000 people and known as a Shangri-la of jaw-dropping
beauty, Bhutan's transition to democracy began in 2001, when the
hugely popular former king handed over the powers of daily
government to a council of ministers.


A 34-point draft constitution unveiled in 2004 has also been sent
to the Bhutanese people for their views ahead of the 2008 polls.
The constitution will replace a 1953 royal decree giving the
monarch absolute power.


The kingdom, about the size of Switzerland and landlocked between
Asian powerhouses India and China, had no roads, telephones or
currency until the 1960s.


It was also never colonised, and for centuries the Bhutanese
relished their independence and isolation from the outside world,
maintaining a barter economy and allowing few foreigners to
visit.


The previous king also famously decided to make the Buddhist
Bhutan's priority not its gross domestic product, or GDP, but
"gross national happiness."


Witnesses and officials said people appeared happy about the
prospect of the vote, with the polling expected to resemble one
large national day out.


"We're very excited about the mock elections. Me and my husband
will be wearing our khos and kiras," Tashi Wangmo, a
businesswoman in Thimphu, said in a telephone interview with AFP.


The men's costumes, called khos, are long-sleeved robes which
reach below the knees and are worn with a belt and high
stockings.


Women wear kiras, a full length dress like a sarong tied with a
belt at the waist and held up by a pair of broaches at the
shoulder.


An estimated 400,000 people are eligible to vote for 47
parliamentary constituencies. Two teams of election officials
from the United Nations and neighbouring India will monitor the
two-round process on Saturday and May 28.


More than 800 polling booths will be set up, with polling to take
place between 0300 GMT and 0900 GMT.


Some residents, however, are apparently still having difficulties
grappling with the idea of a democracy.


"Many of the Bhutanese people are still confused and not sure,"
said Ugyen Dorji, a tour operator.


"Some people were asking if they have to pay some money to vote,
while a few asked if they would be punished if they don't vote."


Last month, the election commission also complained that appeals
for new political parties to come forward had fallen on deaf ears
-- even though all the other trappings of a democracy were ready.
Only two political parties have since been formed.

