

Taliban insurgents Saturday vowed a new round of attacks against
Afghan and foreign troops in the war-torn country, promising to
focus more attention on the relatively-peaceful north.


Naming the new drive "Ghazwatul Badr" after the historic battle
fought by the Prophet Mohammed some 1,400 years ago, a Taliban
spokesman said the operation would target the country's northern
and southern parts.


The call came as Taliban holding two French aid workers hostage
in southern Afghanistan early Saturday called for the withdrawal
of French NATO troops and the freeing of imprisoned militants in
exchange for their release, in a statement on their website.


Northern Afghanistan has remained mostly peaceful compared to
south and southeast which have seen much of the violence plaguing
the country since the ouster of the hardline regime in late 2001.


"Soon we will launch a new operation, Ghazawatul Badr, from the
north to the south," rebel spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP from
an unknown location.


Ahmadi claimed they will send "fresh troops in massive numbers"
to the north of the country as part of what he called a Taliban
countrywide operation.


Taliban have often made inflated claims in the past. Ghazawatul
Badr relates to a crucial victory in the 7th Century by Islamic
forces at Badr, in what is now Saudi Arabia.


An Afghan defence ministry spokesman dismissed the threat.


"This is nothing more than a propaganda scheme," ministry
spokesman general Mohammad Zahir Azimi told AFP.


The insurgency, which scaled down late autumn and winter due to
freezing weather, has increased with the spring. More than 4,000
people mostly militants were killed in 2006.


Nearly 40 foreign troops have died in Afghanistan since January.


As part of their campaign the Taliban have made wide-use of
roadside bombs, said to be a tactic copied from insurgents
fighting the US-led coalition force in Iraq.


Taliban have held control of at least one district in the
troubled southern Helmand province for several months.


They have also increased the Iraqi style abduction of mostly
foreign nationals to pressure foreign forces to leave
Afghanistan, to secure release of Taliban prisoners or to try and
extract ransoms.


There are more than 35,000 NATO led troops fighting the Taliban
insurgency alongside the Afghan army and police.

