

Bollywood stars Aishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan began life as
"Mr and Mrs Bachchan" on Saturday after three days of wedding
celebrations for Indian cinema's hottest couple.


"It's a Bollygood show," said a headline in the Hindustan Times
newspaper on Saturday over a picture of the wedding procession in
Mumbai, India's entertainment capital, where thousands of fans
jostled for a glimpse of the stars, who married late the previous
night.


"Reel to real: Abhi-Ash get married," said the daily Indian
Express, a reference to the couple's nickname  "Abhiash," or
India's answer to Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's "Brangelina"
partnership.


Police had to use batons to control the crowd, who broke through
barriers and climbed trees on Friday to try and catch a glimpse
of the former Miss World and the son of veteran Indian screen
legend Amitabh Bachchan.


"There's no monarchy in India but there are the Bachchans -- this
is the dream wedding," Jagdeep Kapoor, chairman of Indian
marketing consultancy Samsika, said.


Movie-mad Indians have been feasting on details of the couple's
wedding in which Rai, 33, wore a red sari for the traditional
Hindu ceremony, while the 32-year- old groom sported a ceremonial
turban and gold-embroidered, cream-coloured sherwani coat.


The ceremony kicked off at the auspicious hour of 6:13 pm Friday
with an exchange of garlands. Astrologers poured over the
couple's star charts to determine the ideal time for the wedding.


Eleven priests chanted mantras and the couple walked around a
sacred fire seven times to complete their marriage.


Billed as the "Wedding of the Year" by the media, the event was
kept relatively low key out of deference to the bridegroom's
grandmother, who is unwell in hospital.


Unlike usual Indian weddings where the guest list can run into
thousands of people, the wedding ceremony was restricted to
around 100 close friends and family.


The only controversy came away from the festivities, when a
"mentally disturbed" and little-known Bollywood actress attempted
suicide ahead of the wedding, claiming Abhishek had promised to
marry her, police said Friday.


Bollywood movies have a huge following in India and around the
world, especially in nations with large Indian populations such
as Britain, Malaysia, Singapore and South Africa.

