

Militants riding speed-boats on the waters of the oil-rich Niger
Delta attacked a military base in southern Nigeria on Saturday as
the country went to polls in a landmark presidential election.


The attack came a day after assailants attacked a hotel in
Yenagoa where the state governor was staying and razed another
with explosives, leaving several dead.


Goodluck Jonathan, the governor of Balyelsa state and the ruling
party's vice presidential candidate, was uninjured in Friday's
attack though several dead bodies were pulled from the other
hotel, according to an AFP reporter.


Saturday's assault on Yenagoa's military base came as a group of
journalists were waiting for a briefing from a local military
commander on Friday's attack.


"We could have been killed but for the soldiers who promptly
spirited us to safety", the AFP reporter on the scene said.


Heavily-armed troops fanned out on Saturday morning across the
streets of Yenagoa following Friday's attacks in which the
assailants attempted to enter the town.


"The soldiers have taken over the streets, they are heavily armed
and they are checking every vehicle. They ask people to raise
their hands and conduct body checks. They said they are looking
for militants", a witness said.


The scene of Friday's trouble was littered with empty cartridge
cases on Saturday and the area cordoned off.


"We have repelled them but we are cordoning off the place to make
sure that the militants don't launch another attack", a military
official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


It was unclear whether Jonathan, a member of Nigeria's ruling
People's Democratic Party, was specifically targeted by the
gunfire. A high-ranking state government official in Yenagoa,
speaking on anonymity, said Jonathan had been taken to a safe
location.


However, the Park Lane hotel attacked with explosives was in
ruins. There was blood everywhere and soldiers said they had
removed several dead bodies but did not give a precise figure for
how many had died or been injured.


Presidential elections due to see the first civilian-to-civilian
transfer of power in the country's post-colonial history began at
0900 GMT Saturday, a week after violence marred governorship and
state assembly elections, killing 21 people.

