

Following is the statement issued Friday by the family of Cho
Seung-Hui, who gunned down 32 students and  teachers at Virginia
Tech University.


Statement by Sun-Kyung Cho, sister of Seung-Hui Cho, on behalf of
herself and her family.


"On behalf of our family, we are so deeply sorry for the
devastation my brother has caused. No words can express our
sadness that 32 innocent people lost their lives this week in
such a terrible, senseless tragedy.


We are heartbroken.


We grieve alongside the families, the Virginia Tech community,
our State of Virginia, and the rest of the nation. And, the
world.


Every day since April 16, my father, mother and I pray for
students Ross Abdallah Alameddine, Brian Roy Bluhm, Ryan
Christopher Clark, Austin Michelle Cloyd, Matthew Gregory
Gwaltney, Caitlin Millar Hammaren, Jeremy Michael Herbstritt,
Rachael Elizabeth Hill, Emily Jane Hilscher, Jarrett Lee Lane,
Matthew Joseph La Porte, Henry J. Lee, Partahi Mamora Halomoan
Lumbantoruan, Lauren Ashley McCain, Daniel Patrick O'Neil, J.
Ortiz-Ortiz, Minal Hiralal Panchal, Daniel Alejandro Perez, Erin
Nicole Peterson, Michael Steven Pohle, Jr., Julia Kathleen Pryde,
Mary Karen Read, Reema Joseph Samaha, Waleed Mohamed Shaalan,
Leslie Geraldine Sherman, Maxine Shelly Turner, Nicole White,
Instructor Christopher James Bishop, and Professors Jocelyne
Couture-Nowak, Kevin P. Granata, Liviu Librescu and G.V.
Loganathan.


We pray for their families and loved ones who are experiencing so
much excruciating grief. And we pray for those who were injured
and for those whose lives are changed forever because of what
they witnessed and experienced.


Each of these people had so much love, talent and gifts to offer,
and their lives were cut short by a horrible and senseless act.


We are humbled by this darkness. We feel hopeless, helpless and
lost.


This is someone that I grew up with and loved. Now I feel like I
didn't know this person.


We have always been a close, peaceful and loving family. My
brother was quiet and reserved, yet struggled to fit in. We never
could have envisioned that he was capable of so much violence.


He has made the world weep. We are living a nightmare.


There is much justified anger and disbelief at what my brother
did, and a lot of questions are left unanswered. Our family will
continue to cooperate fully and do whatever we can to help
authorities understand why these senseless acts happened. We have
many unanswered questions as well.


Our family is so very sorry for my brother's unspeakable actions.
It is a terrible tragedy for all of us."

