

Down a dirt road in a northeastern Yangon suburb, a large barn
stands empty but for white feathers and piles of chicken
excrement that hint at its former occupants.


The owners hide behind a locked red gate, shaking their heads and
refusing to answer questions.


But nearby residents here in Mayangone Township say these farmers
lost everything when officials in protective clothing came and
killed all their chickens.


This is the site of Myanmar's first bird flu outbreak this year,
and for once the secretive junta is winning praise from the
international community for their response to the potential
disaster.


Authorities in this military-run country have confirmed five
outbreaks of the deadly H5N1 avian influenza virus across Yangon
since February 28, and have killed nearly 45,000 birds in an
attempt to contain the disease.


"I think they are handling it quite professionally. It is the
only advantage of this type of regime, if they decide to seal
off, they can be quite efficient," said one Yangon-based
diplomat.


The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation last month hailed the
government's response as "quick and effective," and the United
States, usually quick to criticise Myanmar, gave the regime
600,000 dollars to help fight bird flu.


The livestock department has set up a strict monitoring system,
and banned the movement of poultry, eggs and animal feed in
affected areas.


A resident living near the first outbreak site described how
health officials in protective suits and masks, accompanied by
military personnel, came to the small city farm and took away two
truckloads of chickens.


"They just said 'this is an outbreak area'," the resident told
AFP. "At first I worried that I would be infected, but now
nothing has happened."


Since the outbreak, health officials have returned and educated
local residents about prevention of bird flu and kept the area
under surveillance.


"After the outbreak I didn't eat chicken. The authorities closed
the nearby markets. They don't sell chicken anywhere," the
resident added.


At nearby Nandawon market, legs of mutton hang from hooks and
flies buzz around piles of offal, but there is not an egg or a
chicken to be seen. Posters at the entrance warn people to beware
of chicken excrement.


Myo Myint Aung, a 37-year-old poultry vendor, said that market
officials came to him on March 3 and told him to stop selling
chicken.


"Now I just sell fish and other things. My income decreased about
70 percent," he said, adding that he understood why the
authorities took the drastic action.


"It is a natural disaster, so that's why we understand," he said.
"We are the first ones who can die, we are very close with the
birds."


The World Health Organisation website reports that 170 people
have died of the human strain of bird flu since 2003, most of
them in Southeast Asia. No human cases or deaths have yet been
reported in Myanmar.


The last avian flu scare here was in March 2006, when more than
100 outbreaks were reported in the central city of Mandalay.
After killing 660,000 birds, authorities last September declared
the country free of bird flu.


Kyaw Nyunt Sein, deputy director general of the health ministry,
said no human cases had been discovered since the Yangon
outbreaks.


"We started monitoring about 1,137 people who were in contact
with birds," he said in a recent interview in the administrative
capital Naypyidaw.


"About 371 people are still under surveillance. So far we haven't
seen any positive cases," he said.


One UN official in Myanmar said he was impressed with the
regime's transparency over bird flu, but said a human outbreak
would be a disaster in a country where the health system is in
tatters after decades of underfunding.


"If you look at the infrastructure that exists, if human cases
broke out it would be more difficult than in many other countries
in the region," he said. "It would be close to impossible to
contain."


Despite some gloomy predictions, people out and about in affected
areas seem unconcerned, with many asking chicken vendors when
they will be able to buy the meat again.


"We have not seen any human cases so we are not afraid at all.
For us, we get upset when we see it -- seeing is believing," said
one jewelry seller perched behind rows of gold at Nandawon
market.

