

No one knows better than the Dallas Mavericks just how dangerous
a Don Nelson- coached team can be.


The Mavericks, who finished the National Basketball Association
regular season with a league-leading 67 victories, are heavily
favored heading into the first round of the playoffs against
Nelson's Golden State Warriors.


But the Warriors, who captured the last NBA playoff berth by the
skin of their teeth, have beaten the Mavericks in all three of
their meetings this season, and boast a key weapon in Nelson - a
former Dallas coach well versed in the ways of the Mavericks.


"Our offenses are pretty much the same because we both use Nellie
offenses," said Golden State guard Jason Richardson. "That's why
they're a pretty good matchup for us."


Dallas Coach Avery Johnson was Nelson's protege, and Nelson's son
is still a Mavericks executive.


"There are a lot of intertwined relationships," said Mavericks
assistant coach Del Harris.


The second-winningest coach in NBA history, Nelson resigned as
Dallas coach 64 games into the 2004-05 campaign.


He was succeeded by Johnson, who was already being groomed to
replace him.


Last August, Golden State lured Nelson out of retirement,
bringing back the coach who had guided the Warriors to their last
playoff appearance in 1994.


In addition to his ties to the Mavericks, Nelson is an expert at
exploiting the weaknesses of supposedly better opponents.


"We get away from our game plan against them," Dallas point guard
Jason Terry admitted. "But that's the threat you face when you
play a team like Golden State. They lull you into the way they
play. You can't do that."


However, Terry said a best-of-seven playoff series would offer
Dallas ample opportunity to adjust to anything Nelson and the
Warriors throw at them.


Certainly the Warriors' most recent win over the Mavericks, in
which Dallas rested Most Valuable Player candidate Dirk Nowitzki,
Josh Howard, Jerry Stackhouse and Eric Dampier, isn't a reliable
yardstick.


In their second meeting of the season, in March, the Warriors
limited a frustrated Nowitzki to 13 points and put an end to the
Mavericks 17-game winning streak.


Back in November, in Nelson's return to Dallas, Baron Davis
scored 26 points as the Warriors handed the Mavericks a third
straight loss to open the season.


Stackhouse acknowledged that the Mavericks know they must be on
their toes against the Warriors despite their lowly seeding.


"We're definitely not treating them as a normal No. 8 seed,"
Stackhouse said. "But hopefully all good things must come to an
end for them."


And Stackhouse noted, while the Warriors are thrilled just to be
back in the postseason, the Mavericks are itching to get back to
the finals and capture the title they missed out on when they
lost to Miami in the championship series.


"Golden State has been a great story with how Nellie has come out
of retirement and led them back to the playoffs," Stackhouse
said. "At the same time, our goal is much bigger.


"We came up a little short last year. Our goal is to win the
title this year."

