

The family of a gunman who shot dead 32 people has apologized for
the "excruciating grief" inflicted on a US campus, saying as the
nation mourned that he had made "the world weep."


"Each of these people had so much love, talent and gifts to
offer, and their lives were cut short by a horrible and senseless
act," said a statement issued by the family of South Korean-born
Cho Seung-Hui Friday.


"We are humbled by this darkness. We feel hopeless, helpless and
lost," they said in the statement which named all 32 of the
victims who died in the shooting at Virginia Tech university on
Monday.


Issued by 23-year-old Cho's sister, Cho Sun-Kyung, the statement
said that her brother was "quiet and reserved," and had
"struggled to fit in."


"We never could have envisioned that he was capable of so much
violence," the family said. "No words can express our sadness
that 32 innocent people lost their lives this week in such a
terrible, senseless tragedy."


The statement came just after bells tolled around the country for
the 27 students and five teachers mown down in a hail of gunfire
when Cho rampaged through a dormitory block and a classroom
complex.


Burning questions remain over whether Cho, who had been briefly
hospitalized for mental health problems, should have been able to
buy two guns and ammunition.


"We can never fully understand what would cause a student to take
the lives of 32 innocent people," US President George W. Bush
said, announcing that he had ordered a review of the questions
raised by the shooting.


Top officials from the departments of education, justice and
health are to travel around the country for discussions before
reporting to Bush with recommendations on how to avoid such
tragedies in the future.


Virginia Tech led the country in mourning Friday, as about 1,000
people crowded onto the campus' drill-field and bowed their heads
for several minutes of silence.


Amid the crying and hugging, a handful of students released 32
orange and maroon balloons each bearing a name of the dead.


"You think you've cried it all out, and then there's more," said
Christine Backhus, a psychology senior, from Centreville,
Virginia, the same town Cho called home, who helped organize the
balloon release.


Late Friday, a huge crowd of maroon-and-orange-shirted fans
turned up at a baseball game, confirming the community was ready
to move ahead.


Virginia Tech athletic director Jim Weaver said the univerisity
wanted to create "an opportunity for all the students and members
of the community to get off that event of Monday."


Masses, prayers and memorial services were held around the
country by the university's alumni, with a special prayer service
for the victims to be held on Sunday in the National Cathedral in
Washington.


And as the country mourned Friday, it was hit by another shocking
shooting, when a gunman killed a male hostage and himself at
NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, leaving a female
hostage bound but otherwise unharmed.


The Virginia Tech memorial day fell on the eighth anniversary of
the massacre at Columbine High School in Colorado.


In a ranting, hate-filled final manifesto sent to a US television
network, Cho referred to the two Columbine killers who on April
20, 1999 killed 12 classmates and a teacher, before shooting
themselves. He called them martyrs.


Known as a sullen loner, Cho was committed for less than 24 hours
to a mental institution in December 2005 after stalking two
students.


Fellow students and professors also raised the alarm over his
gory, violent writings and intimidating manner long before the
attacks.


The disturbing videos he recorded before his bloody spree, show a
clearly unbalanced Cho brandishing the murder weapons and
painting himself as a long- suffering martyr like Jesus Christ.


In a nation still healing from the September 11, 2001 attacks,
Monday's killing spree at Virginia Tech have now been written
into the annals of US history as the country's deadliest school
shooting.

