

Surging share prices on Wall Street over the past week have put
the 13,000 level in sight for the the Dow blue-chip index even
though some analysts see momentum fading.


The latest rally has been fueled by stronger-than-expected
profits for top US firms and hints that inflation is easing, but
a slew of more corporate results in the coming week and a reading
on US economic growth will put momentum to the test again,
analysts say.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average of blue chips rode a seven-
session winning streak to close Friday at an all-time high of
12,961.98, with a weekly gain of 2.77 percent.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index meanwhile
rallied 2.17 percent to end the week at a six-and-a-half-year
record of 1,484.35, edging closer to its all-time high of
1,527.46 in March 2000.


The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite advanced 1.38 percent for the
week to 2,526.39.


The gains over the past week were inspired by "surprisingly
stronger earnings than people had been expecting," said Owen
Fitzpatrick, market analyst at Deutsche Bank.


A blowout billion-dollar quarterly profit from Google, and robust
results from Bank of America, Coca-Cola and JPMorgan Chase helped
offset disappointments from a few including Yahoo.


Significantly, the market reaction was positive to the latest
consumer inflation data.


Although US consumer prices rose a strong 0.6 percent in March as
energy costs shot higher, the "core" inflation level seen as an
important forward-looking gauge showed a modest 0.1 percent rise.


If the trend holds, analysts said it could induce the Federal
Reserve to cut interest rates later this year, which would
stimulate economic and profit growth.


"Inflation risks are fading," said Stephen Gallagher, economist
at Societe Generale in New York.


"It appears that the benign core CPI was sufficient to ease
inflation concerns in the market," he said.


Brian Bethune and Nigel Gault at the research firm Global Insight
said the past week's market action came "in response to good
earnings reports, better news on the economy and quiescent core
consumer price inflation."


They said in a note to clients that earnings "were boosted by
solid export demand and currency gains from a weak US dollar" but
that "this will be a tough act to follow next week" with data
expected to "reinforce the picture of a wounded housing market
and a winded economy."


The analysts said they expect US gross domestic product (GDP) for
the first quarter to show an adavnce of just 1.3 percent.


Meanwhile Bob Dickey, technical analyst at RBD Dain Rauscher,
said momentum is showing signs of slipping after gains for the
Dow in 13 of the past 14 sessions.


"The market is hitting new highs, but is doing so in an
unconvincing fashion," Dickey said. "The relatively low volume is
less than what would be desired at new highs."


Dickey said he sees the Dow moving as high as 13,200 before some
consolidation begins, and then perhaps another leg up.


"It appears to be shaping up in a similar fashion as last year,
in which the summer months saw a market correction that led us
into one of the best rally periods since 2003," he said.


"We expect to see further gains over the near-term, but also
believe that we will see the adage of 'sell in May and go away'
work again this year as it did in 2006."


Bonds were mixed over the past week. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury bond edged up to 4.672 percent from 4.761 percent a week
earlier while the 30-year bond yield eased to 4.845 percent from
4.926 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite
directions.


Among earnings in focus in the coming week will be reports from
ExxonMobil, Chevron, Microsoft and AT&T. Economic data in
addition to GDP will include reports on home sales and consumer
confidence.

