

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II was marking her 81st birthday in
private on Saturday -- a far cry from last year's public
celebrations in front of cheering, flag-waving crowds.


The queen, on the throne since 1952, was to spend the day in
private at Windsor Castle, west of London -- the royal residence
she considers home -- and enjoy a private dinner with her husband
Prince Philip, 85.


For her 80th birthday, the monarch had been greeted by large
crowds in Windsor, a national service of thanksgiving was held
and her eldest son and heir, Prince Charles, hosted a lavish
dinner at Kew Palace, attended by all the senior royals.


The sovereign shows few signs of wanting to slow down. Though her
hectic schedule has been scaled back, she still approaches her
duties with her customary enthusiasm.


Commentators say she is conscious of her vow to serve as queen
for life and would never consider relinquishing her role.


Along with her husband Prince Philip, the queen is set to pay a
two-day visit to Virginia on May 3 and 4 to commemorate the 400th
anniversary of the Jamestown Settlement. The visit to the United
States, which will run to May 8, will be her first in 16 years.


The queen, as head of the Commonwealth, will also attend the bi-
annual Commonwealth heads of government meeting in the Ugandan
capital Kampala in November. Charles, 58, will also attend for
the first time.


On the queen's birthday, the Union Flag is flown on all
government buildings from 8:00 am (0700 GMT) until sunset and
royal gun salutes are fired in her honour.


The monarch also has, by tradition, a second official birthday on
a Saturday in June, when the normally more clement weather is
better suited to outdoor parades.


Arthur Edwards, The Sun newspaper's royal photographer, has
pictured Queen Elizabeth for the past three decades.


"She looks marvellous for a woman of 81 and has an amazing
complexion -- the skin of a lady half her age," the lensman said
Saturday.


"And her clothes are always immaculate. I have never seen a
stitch out of place.


"The queen usually spends her birthday in the same way as
millions of other mothers in Britain do, with her family.


"But one thing is for certain, she won't think turning 81 is a
big deal. She will most likely go for a ride along the river and
take her dogs out.


"I am told the queen is happiest when she is with her horses and
dogs, because they don't know she's the queen."


The Sun was encouraging readers to leave a message on its
Internet site, to be compiled into a giant birthday card to be
presented on her official birthday, which this year falls on June
16.


The Daily Telegraph newspaper paid tribute to Queen Elizabeth in
its editorial Saturday, saying her visits were a reminder of her
value.


"These events bring home to us the great experience of the queen,
and the tradition within which she acts," the broadsheet said.


"How different her steadiness and devotion to duty are from the
party tactics of fly-by-night politicians. The British do not
wear their hearts on their sleeves, but know how to reciprocate
quietly loyal service. Today they can feel, if they do not sing,
God save the Queen."

