

A liberal Turkish magazine that ran controversial articles about
two military coup plots in 2004 has been taken off the press by
its owner after police raids, the editor said Saturday.


"The suspension is indefinite. You can consider it as a closure,"
Anatolia news agency quoted editor-in-chief Alper Gormus as
saying of the decision to halt publication of Nokta, which had
been running for 25 years.


Gormus said journalists had not received any threats and that he
was not aware of any pressure being exerted on owner Ayhan
Durgun.


"However, one cannot not fail to notice that he (Durgun) has been
visibly uneasy and worried over the past month," he said.


Acting on orders from a military prosecutor, police stormed
Nokta's Istanbul office last week and copied the contents of all
computers.


The operation was part of a probe into the leaking of an internal
army document published by the weekly last month, which the
military said was stolen from its headquarters.


The document included lists of journalists categorised as "anti-
army" and "pro- army."


Also in March, Nokta (Point in Turkish) published what it said
were excerpts from the diary of former navy chief Ozden Ornek,
which described how a group of senior generals plotted two coups
in 2004 to oust Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.


The plans did not materialise because they failed to garner the
support of influential commanders, it said.


Ornek denied keeping a diary, but Nokta stood behind its report.


The Turkish army, the self-declared guardians of the mainly
Muslim nation's secular system, is mistrustful of Erdogan's
Justice and Development Party (AKP), the offshoot of a now-banned
Islamist movement.


It has carried out three coups -- in 1960, 1971 and 1980 -- and
in 1997 forced the resignation of Turkey's first Islamist-led
government, to which many AKP members belonged.


The AKP has disowned its roots and pledged adherence to
secularism, but hardline secularists still suspect it of having a
secret Islamist agenda.


Turkish media organisations denounced the police raid on Nokta as
a serious affront on freedom of the press in a country which is
seeking to join the European Union.

