

A Kevin Pietersen-inspired England kept their promise of winning
the last World Cup match for coach Duncan Fletcher when they beat
the West Indies by one wicket here on Saturday.


In-form Pietersen smashed a robust 100 and skipper Michael
Vaughan regained form with a timely 79 as England surpassed their
rivals' total of 300 with one ball to spare in a thrilling Super
Eights "match of farewells".


It was also the last international appearance for West Indies
captain Brian Lara, who would be disappointed with his team's
below-par bowling show in the second round.


England finished fifth and the West Indies sixth after defending
champions Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and South Africa had
qualified for the semi- finals.


Vaughan had said his team desperately wanted to win the game for
their coach whose eight-year stint with England ended with this
match. He himself led from the front with his first half-century
in nine Cup matches.


England were struggling at 189-6 before Pietersen and Paul Nixon
(38) put on 80 for the seventh wicket. Pietersen hammered one six
and 10 fours in his 91-ball knock for his fifth century, and the
second of the tournament.


They needed 45 to win off the last five overs with four wickets
in hand, but Pietersen and wicket-keeper Nixon brought their team
closer to victory with brilliant improvisation before Stuart
Broad completed the job with a brace.


England were in control after Vaughan added 90 for the second
wicket with Ravi Bopara (26) and 53 for the next with Pietersen,
but a hat-trick of run-outs had put them on the back foot.


Pietersen put paid to the West Indies' hopes with a gem of a
knock. He received valuable support from wicket-keeper Nixon.


West Indies opener Chris Gayle earlier gave a superb
demonstration of power- hitting as he smashed three sixes and 10
fours in a 58-ball 79 for his first half-century of the
tournament.


Gayle put on 131 for the opening wicket with Devon Smith (61),
who played a supporting role remarkably well before falling to a
superb one-handed catch by Paul Collingwood at point off paceman
Andrew Flintoff.


Marlon Samuels (51) and Shivnarine Chanderpaul (34) also made
merry as the West Indies reached their highest total of the
tournament.


But the biggest applause was reserved for Lara, who gave a few
glimpses of his attractive stroke-play during his 17-ball 18
before being run out while responding to a call from hesistant
Samuels.


Samuels initially charged for a single after pushing paceman
Broad to mid-on before changing his mind. Lara was out of the
crease when Pietersen hit the stumps at the non-striker's end
with an underarm throw.


Lara had arrived at the crease to a thunderous applause from a
capacity 22,500 crowd at the Kensington Oval, hugging returning
Gayle on the way.


He opened his account with a single before hitting his first
four, a square- drive off Flintoff bowling round the stumps. The
England bowler then immediately tested Lara with a bouncer.


Lara flicked James Anderson for his second boundary and edged
Flintoff for his third which eluded Andrew Strauss's outstretched
right hand at the lone slip. Just when it looked he had settled
down, he was run out.


The celebrating England cricketers, who had formed a guard of
honour on his arrival, applauded him when Lara was returning to
the pavilion.


Lara stopped, turned back, took off his helmet and raised his
bat, acknowledging the applause from the crowd before walking
back to the dressing-room sporting number '9' on his shirt.


Gayle exploded with a flurry of big shots, once severely
punishing seamer Liam Plunkett. He cracked two fours and as many
sixes in an over before racing to his half-century off just 29
balls.

