

German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck sought on Saturday to
rally his EU counterparts behind German plans for more oversight
on speculative hedge funds, but only found limited support.


"There is general agreement that more work has to be done on this
issue," Steinbrueck told journalists after chairing a meeting
with finance chiefs and central bankers from the 27-nation
European Union.


Berlin has had little success during its presidency of the EU and
the Group of Seven richest countries drumming up support for its
plans to step up oversight over hedge funds.


While Germany had originally pushed for more regulation of hedge
funds, Berlin has had to back down after most other countries
only showed interest in the lighter option of increasing
monitoring.


Instead of regulations, Steinbrueck promoted the idea of a
voluntary "code of conduct" that would only need to be applied to
the biggest hedge funds to have an impact.


"It would be a success to have agreement with about 10-15 percent
of the industry," he said. "You don't need to have every hedge
fund around the table, (just) the most important ones."


Hedge funds are largely unregulated pools of capital, whose
managers often use borrowed money to take hugely complex and
highly risky investments in a broad range of financial securities
and commodities.


The industry has enjoyed spectacular growth in recent years as
otherwise conservative pension funds invest in hedge funds, which
now account for a large part of the volume on many stock and
other securities exchanges.


In the United States and Britain, home to the biggest hedge funds
where resistance to the German campaign is strongest, such
investment vehicles generally escape regulation because of their
privately held ownership.


As the industry has grown, concerns have mounted -- especially in
Germany -- that hedge funds could pose wider risks to the
stability of the financial system if they ran into serious
trouble.


"What we want to be sure of is that these new instruments will
also hold up in more adverse economic environments," said
Bundesbank president Axel Weber.

