

The world's fifth space tourist, Hungarian-born American
billionaire Charles Simonyi, returned to Earth Saturday,
describing his 25-million-dollar trip as "terrific".


The Soyuz capsule carrying Simonyi, 58, and two crew members from
the International Space Station, Mikhail Tyurin of Russia and
American Miguel Lopez- Alegria, touched down as planned in the
steppes of Kazakhstan, a spokesman for Russia's space centre
said.


Television pictures showed Simonyi smiling and looking relaxed as
he lay on the grass of the steppe, his space helmet off, enjoying
the sunshine.


"It was terrific," he told the Vesti 24 channel in English. "It's
good to be back on Earth."


The former Microsoft whizz kid who made his fortune helping
develop the company's Word and Excel software broke the record
for space tourists by spending 14 days in space.


The lift-off on April 7 from the Baikonur launchpad drew more
than the usual attention as he received a cosmic bon voyage from
US homemaking queen Martha Stewart, fuelling the rampant romantic
gossip about the couple.


The relationship did influence Simonyi's time on the space
station, where he planned to prepare a gourmet dinner for his ISS
hosts, along with conducting experiments and recording his
impressions on an Internet blog, www.charlesinspace.com.


Stewart was not in Kazakhstan for the landing back on Earth, a
spokesman in Moscow for Space Adventures, which organises the
multi-million-dollar excursions, told AFP. The US-based company
markets one of three seats on the Soyuz on behalf of the Russian
Space Agency.


An unidentified woman was seen on television embracing Simonyi on
his return and heard saying, "I haven't been through what you've
been through," as Simonyi explained that the trip back to Earth
was difficult because he could not move his head during the
entire descent.


"You just look great," she added.


The software engineer had arrived at the ISS on April 9, with
Russian cosmonauts Oleg Kotov and Fyodor Yurchikhin who were
relieving Tyurin and Lopez-Alegria for a 190-day shift in orbit.


The three returning space travellers were to be taken by
helicopter to Karaganda, some 200 kilometers (125 miles)
southeast of the Kazahk capital Astana, where after undergoing
medical examinations they would be flown to Moscow, the ITAR-TASS
news agency said.


Simonyi, who left his native Hungary at the age of 17 for the
United States, was the fifth tourist to travel to the ISS,
following Dennis Tito (2001) and Greg Olsen (2005) of the United
States, South Africa's Mark Shuttleworth (2002) and an American
of Iranian origin, Anousheh Ansari (2006).


Space Adventures plans to expand its offerings next year to
include a 100 -million-dollar orbit of the moon and a
100,000-dollar budget option: five minutes of sub-orbital space
flight.


Eric Andersen, boss of Space Adventures, said when Simonyi took
off that the company had another client for a flight this year
who would go public within a few months.

