

A fired-up pack and some brilliant defence allowed the Western
Stormers to score a thrilling 33-20 Super 14 victory over the
Auckland Blues here at Newlands on Saturday.


It was the Blues' second consecutive defeat in this year's
competition after going down to the Sharks in Auckland a week
ago.


The home side turned around a 10-0 deficit to score 20 unanswered
points in the opening half hour to set up the win.


The result means the Stormers move up to 10th on the log after
this, their fifth win of the campaign, while the Blues remain in
second spot with 37 points, but are being hotly pursued by the
Coastal Sharks (35) and Northern Bulls (32) who occupy third and
fourth places respectively.


The Waikato Chiefs, in fifth spot, also have 32 points. The men
from Auckland now have to go to Loftus Versfeld to take on the
Bulls, who moved into fourth place on Saturday after their win
over the Lions.


The home side suffered an early setback when Blues centre Isaia
Toeava ran in a wonderful try on two minutes and jumped further
ahead after a David Holwell penalty.


The hosts had dominated the opening stanza, thanks mainly to
their loose forwards who caused all sorts of problems for the men
from New Zealand.


They competed superbly at the breakdowns, harassing the Blues men
and on a number of occasions forced a penalty when the visitors
weren't able to get their way.


The free-running backs, so dangerous throughout the competition,
were also kept in check by strong Stormers defence.


With the home side winning plenty of quality first phase ball,
the backs slowly got into their stride and asked plenty of
questions of the reshuffled back division of the Blues.


Superb interplay between Peter Grant, De Wet Barry and Jean de
Villiers on the 15 minute mark allowed fullback Conrad Jantjes to
dot down for his team's first try. Grant's conversion and a
further three-pointer just five minutes later leveled the scores.


Then on 24 minutes, Stormers captain Luke Watson ran all of 50
metres to score under the posts after receiving a pass from lock
Ross Skeate, who'd picked up the loose ball after a Barry tackle
on Blues No 8 Nick Williams.


The home side continued to heap the pressure on the Blues and it
wasn't long before they won another penalty which Grant duly
converted to hand his side a 20-10 lead.


Holwell closed the gap to just seven points with his second
penalty on the stroke of half-time. But a tiring Blues team fell
off the pace in the early stages of the second period and a
further two penalties by Grant and an intercept try by De
Villiers saw the Cape Town team into a 33-13 lead with a quarter
of the match remaining.


Visiting coach David Nucifora, no doubt desperate to get a win to
keep alive his team's chances of hosting a home semifinal, rung
the changes, bringing on the likes of the dangerous Isa Nacewa at
flyhalf, and he reaped the rewards almost immediately when prop
Tony Woodcock scored under the posts after an impressive drive by
the Blues forwards.


Nacewa converted the try to reduce the deficit to 13 points.
While the visitors continued to hammer away at the Stormers' line
in the late stages, some gutsy tackling prevented any further
scores and the home side hung on for an entertaining victory.

