

Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki will begin a regional tour on
Sunday to drum up support for next month's international
conference in Egypt to discuss the turmoil in Iraq, officials
said.


Maliki will leave for Cairo on Sunday and is expected to travel
on to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other regional states for
preparatory talks ahead of the May 3 and 4 meeting, an official
at his office and a lawmaker told AFP.


The ministerial meeting, a follow-up to an ambassadors'
conference last month in Baghdad, will be attended by Iraq's
neighbours and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council, plus Japan, Canada and Germany.


"The prime minister is to start a regional tour tomorrow in Egypt
to prepare for the international conference," an official at
Maliki's office said, speaking on condition of anonymity.


"Egypt will be his first stopover where he will hold talks with
President Hosni Mubarak, before moving to Kuwait and other
countries in the region."


In Cairo, the state news agency Mena added that Maliki would also
meet with his Egyptian counterpart, Ahmed Nazif.


Iraqi lawmaker Mahmud Othman, who is close to the government,
said Maliki is also expected to visit Saudi Arabia during his
tour.


"The prime agenda for his trip is to discuss the preparations for
the meeting," Othman, a Kurd, said.


Neither official could say whether or not Maliki will visit Iran
which has still not confirmed its attendance at the meeting amid
a dispute over five Iranian officials held prisoner by US forces
in Iraq.


If Iran were to attend the high-profile meet at Egypt's Red Sea
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, its officials would sit at the same
table as US Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice who has already
confirmed she will be there.


As a condition for taking part, Tehran has demanded the release
of the Iranians, who have been detained by US forces in Iraq
since January 11 when they were seized in a raid in the northern
Kurdish city of Arbil.


"Iran has demanded that at least three of the five Iranians
detained by US forces in Iraq must be released before the Egypt
conference," Othman told AFP.


"This has almost become a condition for them to attend the Sharm
el-Sheikh meeting."


He said Baghdad had urged Tehran to attend the conference as
Shiite Iran's support is seen as vital in stabilising violence-
wracked Iraq.


Washington accuses Tehran of funding and training militant groups
to fight its forces in Iraq, and alleges that the detained
Iranians are "intelligence officers" suspected of aiding the
anti-American insurgency.


Othman said: "Turkey and Syria have also said they will attend
the conference and are even pursuing Iran."


Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said on Saturday
Tehran has yet to decide whether to attend the conference,
complaining that it risks "weakening" the positions of the
country's neighbours.


Mottaki told the Kayhan daily that Iran would only make clear its
position after talks with his Iraqi counterpart in Tehran next
week.


"The definition of the Sharm el-Sheikh meeting weakens Iraq's
neighbours," Mottaki said. Some decisions have been made over
which no consultations have been carried out first."


The conference broadly aims to create a framework within which
world powers and Iraq's neighbours can help Iraqis end the raging
sectarian conflict that has killed tens of thousands of people
since last year.

