

Lyon were crowned French champions for a record sixth time in a
row without even having to lace up their boots on Saturday.


Gerrard Houllier's men had already all but mathematically ensured
they would win the title despite being held to a 0-0 draw by
Rennes in midweek.


But having spoilt their title celebration aspirations on
Wednesday, Rennes did the league leaders a favour by beating
Toulouse 3-2 on Saturday, removing the one remaining obstacle to
Lyon's celebrations.


Former Liverpool striker Bruno Cheyrou scored the Rennes winner
with just three minutes to play, ending Toulouse's all but
extinct hopes of winning the league.


Toulouse suffered a double blow as they also lost second place -
and direct entry into the Champions League group stages next
season - to Lens who beat Le Mans 1-0 at home.


Lyon thus beat the record five titles in a row that they set last
season, although such is their domination domestically that it
may be many years and records before they are dethroned.


Earlier a double from Portuguese striker Pauleta lifted Paris
Saint Germain to a 4-0 win over relegation-rivals Nantes, a
victory which could prove vital to the Parisians' bid to beat the
drop.


Rockbottom Nantes, however, look set for the second division next
season just six years after they won the last of their domestic
titles, as the side from southern Brittany showed a lack of
fighting spirit during a match in which they rarely threatened
their hosts.


PSG are now riding a four-game unbeaten streak that includes
three victories and a solitary draw.


But boss Paul Le Guen warned against complacency, despite his
side moving six points clear of the drop zone with just five
games to play.


Asked if the win would be enough to guarantee safety, Le Guen
replied: "Definitely not! After the match against Rennes (the
last game PSG lost) there were headlines such as: Paris are
sinking and Paris are going straight down.


"But I don't think the same way. Today we have the opposite:
Paris are saved. I don't believe that either.


"We have to stay on our guard and ready. It would be dangerous to
think that way (that we are saved). But for sure the 10 points
from 12 has done us a lot of good and we can allow ourselves to
be a little more confident."


Pauleta - who had been left out of the starting team for the past
few matches - opened with a superb free kick taken after 17
minutes with midfielder Jerome Rothen finding the net for the
first time this season two minutes before the break.


Pauleta claimed his second on 65 and a minute later helped Peguy
Luyindula score the fourth which compounded the misery of Nantes.


PSG now have 38 points and Le Guen believes that his side need 43
points to survive, but the Parisians face a tough end to the
season with ties against Toulouse, Lyon, Nice, Troyes and Lorient
on the cards.


Only a miracle can save the Canaries who look set for the drop
for the first time since their first division adventure began in
1963.


Modest M'Bami scored a winner four minutes from time as Marseille
leaped into a UEFA Cup qualification place with a 2-1 home win
over Troyes, who remain third from bottom.


Lyon play away to Auxerre on Snuday in a match that will now have
a party atmosphere from the visiting supporters.

