

The Northern Bulls kept alive their hopes of reaching the Super
14 playoffs for the third year in a row when they ran out
comfortable 31-7 winners over the Lions here Saturday.


The visitors, who led 10-7 at the break, scored five
scintillating tries to the Lions' sole effort in the first
period.


The five log points earned ensured the men from Pretoria moved
into fourth spot on the points table of the southern hemisphere
inter-provincial competition.


It was a massively physical encounter with plenty of niggle and
it came as no surprise when the Lions lost scrumhalf Erico
Januarie to the sin-bin late in the first half.


He was sent to the cooler after kneeing Bulls loose forward
Pedrie Wannenburg in the head.


While the Lions shaded the visitors from Pretoria in the opening
exchanges, with flyhalf Andre Pretorius getting two shots at
goal, which he missed, the Bulls slowly found their rhythm to
enjoy territorial advantage for the biggest part of the first 40
minutes.


The Bulls' backs saw heaps more ball than their opponents and it
was they who were the difference between the sides throughout the
match.


"We needed all five points here today and we got them. I'm very
happy," said Bulls skipper Victor Matfield afterwards, referring
to the four points for the win and one extra bonus point for
scoring four or more tries.


"We've got two games to go so it's going to be a big fight. We're
only ahead of the Waikato Chiefs on points difference."


Wynand Olivier opened the scoring for the Bulls on 16 minutes
when the Lions failed to win their ball at a lineout. When it was
shifted wide, winger Bryan Habana ran a superb angle, cutting in
from the wing, and his offload allowed the Bulls centre to dive
over in the left hand corner.


The Lions hit back almost immediately through flanker Ernst
Joubert who crashed over after his teammates had mauled the ball
to the Bulls' line after winning a lineout 10 metres out.
Pretorius added the extras to give the home side a 7-5 lead.


With the Bulls enjoying the majority of possession and pretty
much most of the time camped in Lions territory, it wasn't long
before they got their second try, scored by wing Akona Ndungane,
after further good work by Habana on the touchline.


While Derick Hougaard missed his second conversion, the visitors
changed over in a deserved 10-7 lead.


If matters weren't going the way of the Lions in the opening
half, they got a whole lot worse straight after the restart.


Pretorius knocked the ball on from the kick-off and from the
resulting scrum, the Bulls scored their third try through
Olivier, his second, and on this occasion Hougaard made no
mistake with the conversion.


Just minutes later the rampant Bulls scored their fourth
touchdown to ensure they picked up a crucial bonus point when
Habana went over in the corner after his fullback Johan Roets had
sliced through a rather weak Lions midfield.


Hougaard's conversion put last year's semi-finalists into a 24-7
lead.


While the Lions enjoyed a mini-resurgence midway through the
second period, during which time they came close on several
occasions to scoring a second try, the Bulls' defence held
strong, as it did for most of the match.


When they eventually got out of their 22m area, centre JP Nel
burst through a clutch of bodies to score next to the uprights.
Hougaard added the two points and the Bulls hung on for a crucial
win.

