

International Cricket Council (ICC) chief executive Malcolm Speed
said Saturday some of the criticism of the World Cup was
unwarranted.


"The prospects of the semi-finals are mouth-watering but less so
is the criticism of the tournament, some of which has been over
the top, to put it mildly," said Speed.


"No-one ever pretended this World Cup would be a straightforward
event to stage.


"There have been some negatives, yes, but there have also been
plenty of positives and they surely outweigh the negatives to a
significant degree."


The ICC was criticised for the duration of the touranament with
51 matches spread over 47 days.


High ticket prices, which were out of reach of most locals, and
the lack of crowds also came under fire.


The ICC chief executive agreed poor attendance was disappointing.


"It would have been great if every one of the stadia had been
full for every match but that has not happened and that has been
a disappointment. Ticket pricing may have been an issue, although
we would maintain that 25 US dolars for a ticket for the group
matches is a fair price for a global event."


Speed praised the facilities provided by the organisers.


"The matches have taken place on good pitches with good practice
facilities that make the West Indies the envy of many other of
our Full Members as well as providing a great legacy for the game
in the region," said Speed of the West Indies, the likely hosts
of Champions Trophy in three years.


"To start with, the event is taking place in the Caribbean, a
place to which the game of cricket owes a huge debt for helping
to popularise the sport through much of the past half-century.


"Staging it in the region, over nine separate countries, has been
a huge logistical challenge. However, it is a challenge to which
many people, paid and unpaid have risen and can all be proud of
what has been achieved."


Speed also defended the tournament format.


"The format was criticised, it has cost the tournament in terms
of supporters (India and Pakistan going out in the first round)
but it has also shown that cricket does exist outside the top
eight sides," he argued.


"To those people who have said the tournament has been too long
it is worth pointing out that there are three fewer matches this
time when compared to the event in southern Africa four years
ago, despite the fact we had an additional two teams taking part.


Speed said he was hoping for a great finale.


"The four sides left - Australia, Sri Lanka, New Zealand and
South Africa - will play make-or-break matches, having got to
this stage following a rigorous examination of their credentials.


"No one could deny that each of these teams deserves its place in
the semi- finals and each is a story in itself Australia,
unbeaten and seeking an unprecedented third straight title.


"Sri Lanka, aiming to repeat its 1996 success; New Zealand,
three-time semi- finalists but yet to lift the top prize; and
South Africa, so close yet again after successive heartaches."


Speed termed Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer's death as "tragic" part
of the tournament.


"The tragic death of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer has cast a long
shadow over the event. Bob was a fantastic servant to the game at
all levels my hope is that we produce a climax which would do
justice to Bob's contribution to our great sport."

