

Britain's finance minister Gordon Brown said he expected a battle
with rival candidates to become prime minister once Tony Blair
steps down, in an interview published Saturday.


He urged challengers to come forward in the contest for the
leadership of the governing centre-left Labour Party, which would
therefore see the winner become prime minister.


But the chancellor of the exchequer, 56, hinted that he would
quit politics altogether if he felt he could no longer make a
difference.


"I think there will probably be one (a leadership contest),"
Brown told the Daily Mail newspaper.


"I just say to people that if they want to stand, then please
feel free to do so, because I'm ready to put my views and
experience to the test."


But he added that he would have no problem quitting politics if
his career waned.


"If I thought it was time to do something else, such as charity
or community work, then I would do it," the Scot said.


"If I can't make a difference in the job I'm doing... then I
shall move on. But at the moment, I think I've got the experience
and an idea of how the potential of this country can best be
realised.


"I feel I have something to offer for the future, but if there
came a time when it was right to move on, it wouldn't
particularly worry me.


"People often talk about someone like me as a career politician,
but I'm not. I'd rather do something useful than be in any
particular job."


Blair is expected to step down shortly after the May 3 elections
to the Scottish Parliament, the Welsh Assembly and English local
councils, triggering a seven- week campaign to select and install
a successor.


Opinion polls indicate Labour could be in for a battering.


Fringe left-wingers John McDonnell and Michael Meacher have
declared their intention to stand, but they may not be able to
muster the 44 nominations needed from fellow Labour MPs.


Environment Secretary David Miliband, 41, seen by some Blairites
as the most likely to be able to defeat Brown, has repeatedly
insisted he will not stand.


But tough-talking Home Secretary John Reid has yet to declare his
hand, as have other Blair loyalists determined to stop Brown from
becoming Labour leader.


Bookmaker Ladbrokes reckons Brown is the red-hot 1-10 favourite,
followed by Miliband at 11-2, Reid at 20-1, then former health
secretary and Blair ally Alan Milburn and Education Secretary
Alan Johnson, both at 33-1.

