

Sunderland blew a chance to strengthen their Premiership
promotion push as Colchester inflicted their first defeat in 18
league matches on Saturday.


Roy Keane's side slumped to a 3-1 loss at Layer Road that could
prove costly in the race for automatic promotion from the
Championship.


The Black Cats remain top of the table but Birmingham can knock
them off with a victory at Wolverhampton on Sunday. With third-
placed Derby beating Luton 1-0 on Friday, the three-way battle
for automatic promotion is going down to the wire.


Wayne Brown had given Colchester a 45th minute lead when he
headed in Kevin Watson's free-kick. Dwight Yorke equalised 10
minutes after half-time with a header from Daryl Murphy's cross,
but Richard Garcia restored play-off chasing Colchester's lead
with a brilliant finish in the 82nd minute.


Jamie Cureton completed Sunderland's dismal day when he converted
a last minute penalty to leave the visitors just a point ahead of
Derby with two games to play.


Southampton remain firmly in the play-off race after a 1-0
victory over 10-man Leeds that pushed the visitors closer to
relegation.


Bradley Wright-Phillips, brother of Chelsea star Shaun, grabbed
the winner with just six minutes left at St Mary's after former
Botlon and Celtic star Alan Thompson was dismissed in the first-
half.


George Burley's side are just a point behind sixth-placed
Wolverhampton. But Leeds, who have never played outside the top
two divisions of English football, remain in the relegation zone.


Thompson's straight red card for a lunge on Jhon (eds: correct)
Viafara sparked a brief flare-up, with stewards keeping Leeds
players away from referee Tony Bates. Then Wright-Phillips added
to their misery by converting Djamel Belmabi's cross. The final
whistle saw further angry scenes as rival fans threw missiles.


Stoke wasted a golden opportunity to move into the top six as
relegation- threatened Hull earned a 1-1 draw with a last minute
goal.


Tony Pullis's side had taken the lead through Liam Lawrence's
deflected shot on the stroke of half-time, but former England
international Nicky Barmby boosted the relegation-threatened
visitors when he scored from Jon Parkin's flick.


Barnsley moved five points clear of the relegation zone as Daniel
Nardiello scored a goal in each half to clinch a 2-0 win over
Crystal Palace at Oakwell.


Nils-Eric Johansson's last minute goal gave Leicester a 1-0 win
at Preston as Nigel Worthington got his first win as Foxes boss.
Preston remain fourth but have lost four of their last five
matches.


Southend stay in the drop zone, with Leeds and already relegated
Luton, after a 2-1 defeat at Plymouth.

