

A record number of French citizens living abroad were registered
to vote Saturday for France's next president, in a sign of the
intense interest in the hotly contested election.


French citizens in overseas territories and expatriates in the
Americas voted Saturday, one day before their compatriots back
home for the first time to avoid going into voting booths just as
results emerge in France.


About 820,000 French citizens are registered to vote abroad
compared to 385,000 in 2002, according to the foreign ministry.
Another 120,000 were to vote by proxy, meaning someone in France
would vote on their behalf.


Another hundreds of thousands are registered to vote in French
overseas territories, including the Caribbean island departments
of Guadeloupe and Martinique as well as French Guiana in South
America.


Tens of millions of French voters will cast their ballots in
mainland France Sunday, choosing between a diverse field of 12
candidates from the political left, right and center to succeed
Jacques Chirac.


Right-wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy led opinion polls for the
first round, as socialist Segolene Royal, centrist Francois
Bayrou and far-right leader Jean- Marie Le Pen battled for second
place to qualify for the May 6 runoff.


Residents of France's tiny island territory of Saint Pierre and
Miquelon off Canada's Atlantic coast kicked off the election
Saturday, followed by voters in the overseas territories and
expatriates across the Americas.


Hundreds lined up to vote at a school in Montreal, home to the
largest number of French voters outside Europe.


"It is definitely the first time there are so many people. I
can't believe it," said Jacqueline Orquin, a medical researchers
at the University of Montreal who has lived here since 1960 and
has voted in every election.


Some 34,000 are registered to vote in Montreal compared to 12,000
in 2002, when Le Pen shocked France by finishing second in the
first round before being trounced by Chirac in the runoff.


About half of the more than 100,000 French citizens living across
Canada are registered to vote.


Voting at the French embassy in Ottawa, Francoise Obissier, who
has lived in Canada for 37 years, said it was the most important
election for the future of France.


"It could rock France," she said, adding that she had voted for
Royal.


About 75,000 people are registered to vote in the United States,
a twofold increase from five years ago. More than 250,000 French
nationals are estimated to live in the United States.


In Washington, scores went to the French consulate to vote in the
morning -- too many to handle at one point for election workers
who even complained "we can't catch up."


French citizens also went to the polls across Latin America.


In Argentina, home to the largest number of French registered
voters in Latin America with 12,000, four voting rooms were set
up at the French embassy in Buenos Aires.


In neighboring Brazil, the 11,000 French voters could cast their
ballots in eight cities, from the picturesque beach city of Rio
de Janeiro to the megalopolis of Sao Paulo and the capital
Brasilia.


Thousands more headed to voting booths across the region, from
Chile to Colombia and Mexico, where classrooms in the French
lyceum were converted into voting booths.


The overseas ballots will be counted Saturday evening, but the
French foreign ministry will only unveil the results after voting
ends in France Sunday.

