

Sudanese-born forward Luol Deng scored 33 points and Ben Gordon
added 24 to lead the Chicago Bulls over defending champion Miami
96-91 here Saturday in a National Basketball Association playoff
opener.


Deng, now a British citizen, scored back-to-back baskets, the
last a three-point play, to give the Bulls a 92-83 lead with 1:51
remaining.


Miami answered with the next eight points but Gordon and
Argentina's Andres Nocioni, who finished with 17 points, each hit
two late free throws to hold off the Heat.


In another best-of-seven Eastern Conference series opener,
Richard Jefferson scored 28 points and former Toronto star Vince
Carter added 16 to spark New Jersey past Toronto 96-91. Each
series will continue on Tuesday.


The Bulls had a game-high 14 rebounds by Ben Wallace and a game-
high 11 assists from Gordon.


With Chicago clinging to a 92-91 lead, it was Wallace who tapped
a rebound to Deng that led to Gordon's key free throws.


After Dwyane Wade, Miami's top scorer with 21 points, missed a
3-pointer, the Heat fouled Nocioni and the South American star
sank two free throws with 9.8 seconds remaining to create the
final victory margin.


Shaquille O'Neal had 19 points and six rebounds but had fouled
out by the final dramatics as the defending champions, weakened
by injuries all season, proved vulnerable to the new generation
of the team Michael Jordan led to six NBA titles in the 1990s.


At Toronto, Carter made only 5-of-16 shots as Raptors supporters
booed their former hero, but he scored nine points in the fourth
quarter to help the Nets capture the first game of their series.


The Raptors made a 17-6 run to begin the fourth quarter but the
Nets held off their hosts, thanks in part to a playoff career
high 16 points by Bostjan Nachbar of Slovenia and 11-of-21
shooting by Jefferson.


"We understand with this much emotion ionvolved they were going
to make a run," Jefferson said, adding that New Jersey's depth
offset Carter's struggles.


"We're a team. It's not just about him. Even if someone has an
off night, down the line we will play great."


Chris Bosh scored 22 points to lead the Raptors, who also had 21
points from T.J. Ford and 16 more from Anthony Parker.


The Raptors, who will try to even the series here Tuesday,
rallied within 83-82 with 4:08 remaining


Nachbar scored five points in the final 2:40 and Carter had four,
including a layup and two free throws that kept the Raptors from
taking the ball with a chance to pull even.

