

France on Sunday holds the first round of a presidential election
that is seen as one of the most hard-fought and important for
decades.


Some 44.5 million registered voters -- an increase of 3.4 million
on 2002 -- are choosing a successor to Jacques Chirac, 74, who
steps down next month after leading the country for 12 years.


The last opinion polls issued before a ban at midnight Friday
showed that right- wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy and socialist
Segolene Royal are favourites to reach the all-important second
round on May 6.


However polls also indicate millions of voters do not know who to
vote for and the chance of a last-minute upset created an air of
high tension, as both centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and far-
right veteran Jean-Marie Le Pen are within a few points of the
leaders.


Memories are vivid of the last presidential election in 2002,
when Le Pen shocked the world by qualifying for round two.


The 2007 election marks the changing of France's political guard
at a time of intense national uncertainty.


All three main candidates come from a new generation of leaders,
and all claim to represent a break from a discredited past. All
also say the country needs radical solutions to save it from
burgeoning public debt, rampant unemployment and seething
discontent in the high-immigration suburbs.


In Sarkozy and Royal, voters face a clear choice between an
avowedly right-wing programme based on the themes of work and
national identity and a left-winger promising to safeguard the
country's generous "social model".


Voting began a day early in France's overseas territories in the
Americas, with some 5,000 registed electors in the tiny islands
of Saint Pierre and Miquelon the first to turn out Saturday.


In mainland France, Saturday was a day for political reflection.
Some 65,000 polling booths open at 8:00 am (0600 GMT) on Sunday
and close 12 hours later.


For the first time, some electronic voting machines are being
used.


Only the two front-runners qualify for the decisive second round
-- the system having been devised so that presidents are always
elected with more than half the vote.


For several months polls have consistently given a clear first
round lead to Sarkozy, a 52-year-old former interior minister who
heads the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


Royal, 53, has been in second place followed by Bayrou, 55, and
the 78 year-old Le Pen -- but the gap separating them has varied
widely causing the speculation over who will join Sarkozy in the
second round.


Royal, a former environment minister who wants to be France's
first woman president, would be under threat if large numbers of
left-wing voters switch tactically to Bayrou in order to keep out
Sarkozy, analysts said. Polls suggest that Bayrou has the best
chance of beating Sarkozy in the run-off.


However she stands to gain from memories of the 2002 vote when
the Socialist Party Lionel Jospin was beaten by Le Pen. Failure
to qualify for a second time for round two would be disastrous
for the party.


Also running in the election are three Trotskyites, a Communist,
a Green and anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The other two
are a hunters' rights candidate and the Catholic nationalist
Philippe de Villiers.


After a passionate campaign and with sunny weather forecast,
pollsters predicted a high turn-out Sunday. With most voters
congregating around the four leaders, there was little chance of
a repeat of 2002 -- which was widely seen as a disgrace for
French democracy.


Thanks to a low turn-out and the large number of candidates, in
2002 more than half the electorate either abstained or voted for
the extreme left and right.

