

EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou and Russian Agriculture
Minister Alexei Gordeyev said on Saturday they were seeking a
breakthrough toward a deal for Moscow to lift its embargo on
Polish farm products.


"Let's hope we will reach some outcome this evening, and see how
we proceed," Kyprianou told reporters during a break in their
talks in the coastal city of Limassol in his native Cyprus.


"We've identified issues and the areas we should concentrate on.
Now it's a question of agreeing procedure and steps that should
be taken to solve the problem as soon as possible," he said.


Gordeyev said: "We are trying to identify solutions and that
process will continue tonight."


Asked if he was optimistic, he said: "Just as in the past, we are
in a position to identify mutual acceptable solutions for both
the Russian Federation government and the EU Commission. We are
quite confident to do so today as well."


In Brussels, EU officials have voiced optimism that Russia can be
persuaded to lift its embargo on Polish farm products so that
talks can begin on a new partnership agreement with Moscow.


On Tuesday the European Commission sent the latest in a string of
letters to Moscow seeking to clear up lingering concerns over the
safety of Polish meat and other foodstuffs.


Russia, which accuses the Polish authorities of lax practices
over food safety standards, imposed its embargo in November 2005
but Warsaw argues the ban is a politically motivated move against
the former Soviet satellite state.


The row has taken on wider proportions since Warsaw vetoed the
opening of talks between the European Union and Russia on a new
partnership agreement in retaliation over the embargo.


That new broad economic cooperation agreement will be aimed,
among other things, at securing a reliable flow to Europe from
Russia's massive oil and gas fields.


The existing partnership agreement runs out late this year, but
EU officials stress it can be extended in the absence of a new
deal.


After the meeting on Saturday, being held on an informal basis,
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is to hold talks with EU
officials on the sidelines of an EU foreign ministers' meeting in
Luxembourg on Monday.


An EU-Russia summit will take place on May 18 in the eastern
Russian city of Samara.

