

Real Sociedad continued to keep alive their hopes of avoiding
relegation with their third win in four games, beating Atletico
Madrid 2-0 on Saturday.


The San Sebastian side took an early lead with Darko Kovacevic
stabbing the ball home from the edge of the six yard box,
following a cross from the left wing by Savio, after seven
minutes.


Real Sociedad nearly went further ahead nine minutes later when
Gaizka Garitano hit the crossbar.


Atletico's Spanish international striker Fernando Torres had two
chances late in the first half to put the visitors on level terms
but both of his efforts skimmed the post.


However, Atletico's chances of salvaging a point started to
diminish severely with 20 minutes to go.


Firstly, their French midfielder Peter Luccin was sent off for
trying to con the referee about an inexistant foul after he'd
lost the ball.


Atletico were then reduced to nine men with 10 minutes to go when
Brazilian defender Fabiano Eller picked up his second yellow
card.


Savio then secured three points for Sociedad with six minutes
remaining after being left unmarked, scoring with his left foot
from almost exactly on the penalty spot.


Sociedad remain in dire trouble and are still second from bottom
but their recent run, with seven games to go, suggests that the
Basque side may yet avoid playing in the Spanish second division
for the first time in 40 years.


By contrast, Atletico stay in sixth place but have now not won in
13 visits to the Anoeta stadium.


League leaders Barcelona are four points clear at the top and,
with just eight games to go, they are aware that lifting their
third successive Spanish title is in their own hands as they aim
to maintain their advantage at Villarreal on Sunday.


Barca coach Frank Rijkaard named two-time World Player of the
Year Ronaldinho in his squad after the Brazilian missed the
reigning champions' last two games due to a bout of tonsillitis.


"He (Ronaldinho) is feeling a lot better and has recovered his
energy. I would not have included him if he was still feeling
tired or ill. He wants to participate," said the Dutch coach at a
press conference on Saturday.


Rijkaard was also trying to dampen expectations about Lionel
Messi in the wake of the Argentine teenage phenomenon's stunnning
goal in the Spanish Cup semi- final against Getafe on Wednesday.


Messi's goal, the second in Barca's 5-2 victory, was a near
carbon copy of the famous strike by his compatriot Diego Maradona
for Argentina against England in the 1986 World Cup, starting in
his own half and going past four defenders.


"Messi knows that life goes on. I'm sure that the goal will be an
additional motivation to him but he's got to go on the field
aiming to help the team, not just trying to do spectacular
things," added Rijkaard.


Sevilla are in second, four points behind the reigning champions,
and will face relegation-threatened Athletic Bilbao on Sunday.


Earlier this season, most pundits would have predicted an easy
win for the UEFA Cup semi-finalists but Sevilla have started to
show the strain of being the only Spanish team to still be
contesting three titles.


Athletic have also improved significantly in recent weeks and
could preserve their historic status as one of only three clubs -
Barcelona and Real Madrid being the others - to have been ever-
present in the Spanish first division.


Real themselves are one place further back in third and face a
huge battle against fourth-placed Valencia on Saturday.


"Against Valencia we are playing to stay in the title race. If we
lose I think we will only be in contention for a place in the
Champions League," said Real club captain Raul Gonzalez earlier
this week.

