

Jonathan Stead scored a potentially priceless equaliser as
Sheffield United denied Charlton a victory which would have
lifted them out of the Premiership's relegation zone at the
expense of their guests.


Stead's superb solo goal 20 minutes from time cancelled out a
deflected shot from Talal El-Karkouri and the Blades held out for
a vital 1-1 draw.


The point leaves Charlton third from bottom on 33 points with
United occupying the final survival spot two points above them.


The home team received a timely boost before kick-off when top-
scorer Darren Bent was passed fit to play after a thigh injury.


United boss Neil Warnock brought back Stead, Keith Gillespie and
Chris Armstrong after they were rested for the Blades' midweek
defeat at Manchester United.


The visitors were the first team to pose an attacking threat when
Keith Gillespie whipped in a dangerous cross which striker Luton
Shelton could only reach with the aid of his hand, earning the
Jamaican a booking.


The home team were stung into action and after a flurry of
corners Michael Tonge narrowly avoided heading into his own net
from a dangerous Dennis Rommedahl cross.


Danish international Rommedahl continued to look like the
Addicks' best source of a breakthrough and it almost arrived in
the 14th minute when his floated cross was headed narrowly wide
by Darren Ambrose.


England international Bent was next to go close when he volleyed
a yard wide from an Ambrose corner.


Set-piece specialist El-Karkouri came even closer for the home
side two minutes later when his 30-yard free-kick was
acrobatically tipped over the bar by Paddy Kenny.


The game entered a scrappy period with a series of free-kicks and
mis-placed passes hampering both teams' efforts to grasp the
initative.


United's best chance of the opening half arrived in the 33rd
minute when a Gillespie header from Stead's cross was tipped
around the post by a diving Scott Carson.


Moroccan international El-Karkouri finally broke the deadlock for
the home team on the hour mark.


The defender took control of the ball 35-yards out from goal
before hitting a speculative drive which took a deflection off
Matthew Kilgallon to leave goalkeeper Kenny helpless.


But the home fans' joy only lasted eleven minutes as the Blades
responded with a well-taken equaliser from Stead.


The ex-Blackburn man received the ball from Nick Montgomery
before surging to the edge of the penalty area and hammering an
unstopable shot into the bottom right-hand corner of the goal.


It was the striker's second strike within a week following his
effort in last weekend's 3-0 win over West Ham.


The home supporters became more and more anxious as their team
tried to push for the vital goal but were restricted to long-
range efforts.


Indeed it was United who looked the more likely to score a second
after mounting a series of counter-attacks.


The crowd were buoyed by the indication of five minutes injury
time but the Addicks created no more chances and now know their
team are fast running out of games to rescue themselves.

