

Martin Jol showed little compassion for Arsene Wenger after Spurs
rescued a 2-2 draw in Saturday's north London derby against
Arsenal.


Jol's side avoided defeat against their bitter rivals thanks to a
Jermaine Jenas equaliser in the last minute of stoppage time, but
Arsenal should have had the points wrapped up long before then.


The Gunners, who trailed to Robbie Keane's strike before going
ahead through Kolo Toure and Emmanuel Adebayor, squandered a
series of chances and hit the woodwork three times.


The result put the seal on a traumatic week for Wenger, who saw
his close friend David Dein quit as vice-chairman following a row
with his fellow directors over a potential takeover by American
Stan Kroenke.


Jol said: "We had good spells but in the second half we looked
flat and tired. We were pretty lucky to get a draw in the end.


"We couldn't keep the ball and if you have got Arsenal in your
half you ask for problems. It is not the first time we have
conceded goals like that. Pascal Chimbonda should have stayed
with Toure and he didn't do that.


"But they can only blame themselves. They had a chance to make it
3-1 but they didn't take it and when that happened it gave us the
opportunity to come back into the game."


Wenger conceded that Arsenal need to learn how to kill teams off
when they are in control.


"We should have won by five goals and it is frustrating," he
said. "We hit the post three times and had a lot of crosses.


"I couldn't see Tottenham creating many chances but they scored
two goals and that is the story of the season.


"We have great quality in our game but we have to learn to make
the maximum out of the chances we create. To let Tottenham score
two goals out of the chances they had is too many.


"It is down to our confidence and maturity. The basics are
fantastic, but we have to work and keep belief in what we do."


Wenger had wanted to win the game for Dein but he insisted the
behind the scenes drama would not distract his players.


"We wanted to give a victory to David today," he said. "Of course
it was an eventful week.


"It will not distract us. You have to focus on your own
performance. There is always talk. That is what happens at a big
club. It is down to your mental strength and we showed we have
some of that."


Spurs striker Dimitar Berbatov was furious with the way his side
gifted Arsenal two goals from set-pieces and he added: "We must
think when we play and sometimes we don't do that.


"We let Arsenal take the initiative and they scored two goals
from free-kicks. It is stupid and we can't allow these sorts of
goals if we want to achieve something in the future."

