

Manchester United's drive to reclaim the Premiership title
stalled on Saturday when Sir Alex Ferguson's side were held to a
1-1 draw by Middlesbrough at Old Trafford.


The point extended United's lead at the top of the table to four
points.


But Chelsea can cut that back to one by winning their game in
hand, at Newcastle on Sunday, and, with United due to visit
Stamford Bridge on May 9, the champions now have their destiny
back in their own hands: If Jose Mourinho's men win their five
remaining games they will be champions for a third straight
season.


United had got off to a perfect start when Kieran Richardson
tapped the ball into the net after Wayne Rooney had broken clear
and rounded goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer.


But Mark Viduka headed Boro back on level terms in first-half
stoppage time and an increasingly nervy United were unable to
force Schwarzer into a single save after the interval.


United's stumble came on a day that Watford were relegated from
the top flight while Liverpool warmed up for next week's
Champions League meeting with Chelsa by pushing Wigan into deeper
trouble.


Goals in either half from Dutch striker Dirk Kuyt guided
Liverpool to a 2-0 win that guarantees the Reds a top four finish
and leaves their guests two points clear of the relegation zone.


"We were looking for a good game, a good result and we wanted to
rest some players and didn't want injuries," Liverpool boss Rafa
Benitez said. "So it was almost perfect."


Watford's drop back to the Championship after one season in the
top flight became a mathematical certainty as a result of their
1-1 draw at home to Manchester City.


Former England striker Darius Vassell gave City the lead early in
the second half and although Hungarian striker Tamas Priskin
equalised with quarter of an hour left, it was not enough to save
Watford from a fate that has looked inevitable since October.


West Ham were Saturday's big winners in the battle for survival,
Bobby Zamora's superb first-half strike earning Alan Curbishley's
side a precious 1-0 win over Everton at Upton Park.


The win left the Hammers within three points of fourth-from-
bottom Sheffield United, who came from a goal down to grab a 1-1
draw at fellow strugglers Charlton.


Charlton had been on track for a win that would have lifted them
out of the bottom three after Talal El Karkouri gave them a lead
just before the hour mark.


But Jon Stead grabbed an equaliser 10 minutes later to keep the
Blades' two points above the drop zone.


Fulham also remain embroiled in the dogfight at the bottom after
failing to defend a lead against Blackburn, a 1-1 draw extending
their winless run to nine matches.


Vincenzo Montella scored the Cottagers' first goal under new boss
Lawrie Sanchez to give them a 10th-minute lead but free-scoring
South African Benni McCarthy grabbed a deserved second-half
equaliser for Blackburn.


Arsenal ended a week dominated by boardroom turbulence on a
frustrating note as Jermaine Jenas's 25-yard-strike earned
Tottenham a 2-2 draw deep into injury time in the north London
derby.


The Gunners, who trailed to Robbie Keane's early header before
going ahead through Kolo Toure and Emmanuel Adebayor, squandered
a series of chances and hit the woodwork three times in a
performance that summed up their season.


"We have great quality in our game but we have to learn to make
the maximum out of the chances we create," manager Arsene Wenger
admitted after the club's first match since the shock departure
of David Dein, the former vice-chairman who brought him to
London.


Reading reignited their hopes of ending their first season in the
Premiership with a UEFA Cup place thanks to the Irish-made late
rally that secured a 3-1 win at Bolton.


The home side looked set for maximum points thanks to an own goal
by Nicky Shorey.


But Steve Coppell's side got back on level terms through an 84th-
minute penalty from Kevin Doyle. The Ireland striker notched a
second five minutes later and an injury time strike from his
international team-mate Stephen Hunt rounded off a win that
lifted Reading into seventh place in the table.

