

Debate raged anew Saturday over gun controls in the United States
after reports said that Virginia Tech shooter Cho Seung-Hui
should not have been able to legally buy guns due to his mental
health history.


With the nation rocked by yet another shocking murder-suicide
Friday, at a NASA building in Texas, critics began to assail the
state of Virginia, where Cho was able to buy two handguns in a
little more than a month despite having been held and ordered for
counseling.


Friday was also coincidentally the eighth anniversary of the day
two students shot 12 dead at Columbine High School in Colorado,
the previous most deadly school shooting in the country before
Cho slaughtered 32 at the southwest Virginia university last
Monday before killing himself.


Just four days after Cho's rampage, a National Aeronautics and
Space Administration contractor managed to sneak a revolver into
the Johnson Space Center in Houston Friday and kill a hostage and
himself inside a building.


Media reports Saturday said that Cho's history of mental illness
two years ago should have prevented him from obtaining the two
handguns he used, even under Virginia's lenient state firearms
purchase rules.


According to the New York Times, federal law should have
prevented the sale of the guns to Cho, one from a local gun
dealer and another over the Internet via a local pawnshop,
because two years ago a judge ruled that the moody loner
presented "an imminent danger to himself as a result of mental
illness."


At the time Cho, an English major at Virginia Tech, had been
reported to campus police for stalking two women, and professors
had taken note of him as disturbed, anti-social and possibly
dangerous.


But even though police held him for a day and ordered him to
obtain counseling, that information did not make it into the
records that gun dealers consult before making a gun sale.


"It's clear we have an imperfect connection between state law and
the application of the federal prohibition," Richard Bonnie, who
leads a commission on mental health law reform for the Virginia
state supreme court, told the Times.


Earlier the Brady Campaign, which fights for tougher gun controls
across the United States, argued that Cho's history as an
"adjudicated as a mental incompetent" should have prevented him
from acquiring guns under the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968.


But in rural areas like the rolling hills that surround Virginia
Tech, guns and hunting are an established way of life, and there
is spare support for an overhaul of gun laws.


Indeed, gun purchases, and especially requests for state permits
to carry concealed weapons, are up since the massacre Monday,
according to anecdotal reports from gun dealers and pawn shops.


"We even had a Virginia Tech professor apply for a concealed gun
permit," one pawnshop employee near Blacksburg said Friday, while
refusing to allow his name or his shop's name to be used.


Virginia has some of the most lax handgun purchase laws in the
country, so lenient that Cho could buy the two pistols without a
license in just a two-month period.


The state requires licenses to carry a concealed handgun, but
those only require filling out a form, paying about 40 dollars,
and waiting a few weeks for the state to check one's criminal
background.


The result is Virginia has issued 135,000 concealed gun permits
in all, according to police.


"Gun control won't fix this," said Lyle Hartsock, a 1985 Virginia
Tech graduate. "What if one of the girls had a 'carry' permit and
dropped this clown," he said, referring to Cho.


Not everyone in the southwest Virginia region believe the gun
laws are fine. "It would be a help if mental history would be an
issue in handgun purchases," said Virginia Tech student John
Schwartz.

