

Arsene Wenger insisted David Dein's departure as Arsenal's vice-
chairman will not affect his summer spending plans after his team
were held to a 2-2 draw by rivals Tottenham.


The Gunners manager has long maintained that he sees no reason to
make significant additions to his squad, but his close ally's
surprise exit had led to speculation that he might be offered
substantial funds by his board as a sweetener.


Wenger, however, maintained that he has no plans to dip into the
transfer market, prefering instead to keep faith with his crop of
talented youngsters and his injured trio Thierry Henry, Theo
Walcott and Robin van Persie.


"We have remarkable players with a remarkable spirit and a
remarkable quality and I'm sure that we will see that next
season," he said. "So that is why we will not change the team. It
will remain the same as at the moment except we will have the
injured players back.


"It is possible that we will add one player but we will keep the
core and the spirit of the side at the moment. We have not gone
very far in terms of financial discussions but I feel the quality
is already there.


"Of course, we always want to improve and we would never turn
down the chance to get an outstanding talent but sometimes it is
intelligent not to try and change things too much."


The departure of Dein - the man who brought Wenger to English
football in 1996 - had inevitably sparked doubts over the
Frenchman's future, although he moved quickly to quell anxiety
among his players by holding a meeting with them last week.


But Wenger admitted that Dein's sudden exit will irrevocably
alter the way in which the club conduct their transfer business
and will also hasten their search for a director of football.


"We always did the job of transfers together and at the moment I
am doing it alone," he added. "In the past, I would leave the
ugly part to David, or as much as I could, and he did much of the
negotiation work so it will be more difficult and time-consuming
for me.


"Ideally I would like a director of football - that would be my
decision and choice, but there is nothing happening yet."


Wenger's bad week appeared set for a happy ending at White Hart
Lane, where goals from Kolo Toure and Emmanuel Adebayor - both
picked out by set-pieces delivered with pin-point precision by
Cesc Fabregas - cancelled out Robbie Keane's 30th-minute opener.


It was just reward for a dominant second-half performance, which
also saw the visitors strike the woodwork twice, but there was a
sting in the tail. It was delivered by Jermaine Jenas, the
England midfielder, who cracked an unstoppable low drive into the
bottom corner deep into stoppage time to restore parity.


That was not enough to end Tottenham's eight-year wait for a
victory over their north London rivals but it perked up Martin
Jol, their manager, who hailed Jenas's spectacular contribution.


"Jermaine saved the day for us but it was not a lucky goal
because we see him do it all the time in training sessions," he
said. "That goal made it feel more like a victory for us and we
are getting closer to beating them.


"We did everything right in the first half and closed them down
well, which they could not cope with. But in the second half they
could have scored four or five goals so a point was a good
result."

