

A Greek cruise ship that sank near the popular holiday island of
Santorini more than two weeks ago is a pollution hazard, the
local head of Greenpeace said Saturday, accusing authorities of
"criminal" delay in draining the ship's tanks.


The 143-metre (472-foot) cruise ship, Sea Diamond, sank with 450
tonnes of fuel in an "exceptionally beautiful and sensitive
ecosystem," Greenpeace Hellas director Nikos Haralambidis told Ta
Nea daily.


"Two weeks have gone by, and no decision has been made (to drain
the fuel)," the environmental activist said. "This delay is
criminal."


The cruise ship operated by Cyprus-based Louis Hellenic Cruise
Lines on April 5 hit a reef half a nautical mile offshore as it
was preparing to dock at Santorini.


After a major operation to evacuate some 1,600 passengers and
crew, the ship was towed to a nearby bay where it sank the
following morning to a depth of 140 metres.


"Imagine a small city with 1,000 households... how many hundreds
of litres of chlorine, paint, lubricants it has on board,"
Haralambidis said. "Most of these have already spread to the
marine environment."


Santorini is one of Greece's main travel destinations, visited by
hundreds of thousands of tourists every year, and local
authorities have threatened to sue the ship's owners for damage
to the island's economy and environment.


Greek media report that the fuel drainage will begin by early
May, but the merchant marine ministry has not released details on
the operation.


Two French tourists, a 45-year-old man and his 16-year-old
daughter are still missing, and feared to have been trapped on
board the sinking ship.


The cruise ship's data recorder has been recovered and is
expected to be sent to the United States next week for analysis
into the causes of the accident, Ta Nea said.


The Sea Diamond's captain and five officers have been charged
with causing a shipwreck through negligence, breaching
international shipping safety regulations and polluting the
environment.

