

Italy's Democrats of the Left (DS) on Saturday approved a plan to
merge with a centrist party as part of a bid to boost the ruling
centre-left's tenuous grip on power.


"It's not the end of a story but the building of a greater one,"
DS leader Piero Fassino said in an emotional closing speech at a
party congress in Florence, calling the planned merger "an
extraordinary adventure."


The some 1,500 delegates at the three-day congress gave Fassino a
clear mandate to convene a constituent assembly in October to
create a new, reformist Democratic Party (PD), billed as a "force
as big as the future".


The merger with the Daisy party, the second largest formation in
the nine-party coalition of Prime Minister Romano Prodi, would
create a party larger than former prime minister Silvio
Berlusconi's Forza Italia, currently Italy's most popular.


To thunderous applause, Fassino said Saturday that he wanted to
build a "House of Reformists" to challenge Berlusconi's centre-
right alliance, the House of Freedoms.


However, the far left flank of the DS, led by Higher Education
Minister Fabio Mussi, rejected the merger and vowed to form their
own party.


At local assemblies across the country ahead of the DS congress,
Mussi's motion won 15 percent support from the some 255,000
delegates who voted, while 75 percent backed Fassino's merger
initiative.


"You have chosen nostalgia," Fassino said of the Mussi faction.


The Daisy party of centrists and former leftist Christian
Democrats, led by Culture Minister Franceso Rutelli, was to
conclude its congress on Sunday with an expected parallel
announcement.


The PD is being billed as both a forward-looking strategy for the
centre-left and a cure for Italy's chronic political instability.


The centre-left's razor-thin victory in last year's elections
depended on the splintered remainder of the coalition, made up of
communists, Greens, libertarians and others. The far left has a
deep independent streak that briefly brought down the Prodi
government in February.

