

A British television journalist and a Kenyan camerawoman have
been arrested for filming a police station in the capital
Nairobi, officials here said Saturday.


Police sources said Dan Edge, 29, and Susan Kurumba, 27, were
arrested Friday after being caught outside Kileleshwa police
station, sparking concern in Britain.


Their lawyer Harun Ndubi and colleague Steve Grey appealed for
their release, saying they had all the necessary documents to
film a documentary on terrorism in the country.


Edge works for British broadcaster Channel 4 while Kurumba works
with Kenya's Vivid Features.


The pair were filming for Channel 4's news documentary programme
Dispatches.


"We were shocked," Ndubi told reporters.


"Police are now investigating the two with a possible link to
terrorism when indeed they came here to shoot a documentary film
on terrorism and the government's efforts to fight the vice."


In London, a Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware that a
British national has been arrested in Kenya on April 20.


"Consular assistance has been offered but we do not know if he
has been officially charged."


British police officials refused to discuss the case.


Grey said the two were making a documentary for Channel 4 on the
renditions to Somalia and Ethiopia of hundreds of people who were
arrested by Kenyan police while fleeing fighting between
Ethiopian forces and Somali Islamists.


"It is about the situation in the Horn of Africa and obviously
terrorism is one aspect of it ... We will go to Ethiopia and see
the situation there, in Somalia -- it is a broad documentary,"
Grey told reporters.


Dispatches editor Kevin Sutcliffe said: "I am surprised at this
turn of events given that earlier in the day the crew had been
conducting an interview with the Kenyan foreign minister as part
of their film.


"I hope this situation can be resolved as swiftly as possible
with the Kenyan authorities."


Nairobi has stepped up security after the east African republic
was twice hit by extremists linked to Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda
terror network.


New York-based Human Rights Watch said Kenyan security forces
arrested at least 150 individuals from some 18 different
nationalities at the Liboi and Kiunga border crossing points with
Somalia.


The rights body said US and other national intelligence services
interrogated several foreign nationals while they were being
detained in Nairobi, where they were denied access to legal
counsel and consular representatives.


Most of the people were transferred to Ethiopian jails.

