

Svetlana Kuznetsova and Nadia Petrova gave Russia a commanding
2-0 lead after the first day of Russia's World Group first round
Fed Cup tie with Spain beating Lourdes Dominguez-Lino and Anabel
Medina Garrigues respectively here on Saturday.


Russia's 21-year-old Kuznetsova, who was tied at 1-1 with
Dominguez-Lino ahead of Saturday's clash, won in straight sets
6-3, 6-2 to put Russia 2-0 up.


"I did not play in the Fed Cup for two years and was a bit
nervous at the beginning making too many unforced errors,"
Kuznetsova said.


"But one way or another I added a point to our score and this is
the only thing that really matters."


Kuznetsova, currently fifth in the WTA rankings, looked slightly
rusty from the start, making a catalogue of unforced errors and
allowing her opponent to break in the fifth game.


However, Kuznetsova managed to put her feet back on the ground
and replied with a couple of breaks to take the opening set in 35
minutes.


In the second Kuznetsova underlined her supremacy at the red clay
court of Moscow's Luzhniki small indoor arena producing two more
breaks to take the set and the match in one hour six minutes.


Earlier on Saturday Petrova gave Russia the first rubber
clinching her second head-to-head win over Medina Garrigues 6-3,
6-4 in as many meetings.


The Spanish 24-year-old started the match with an immediate break
for a 2-0 advantage but Petrova broke back twice to clinch a one-
set lead in 39 minutes.


Medina Garrigues broke early in the second set for a 3-0 lead but
failed to keep her advantage again as Petrova, 24, broke back in
the seventh game to level at four games all.


In the ninth game Petrova broke again minutes before she won the
set and the match on the first match point in one hour 30
minutes.


"I expected it would be much more easy to win today. I had to
work really hard to clinch this important point for our team,"
Petrova said after the match.


"I was really nervous, while Medina Garrigues had absolutely
nothing to lose and played very confidently. Luckily I managed to
find my normal playing and win."


The reverse singles and doubles clash will complete the tie's
schedule on Sunday.

