

Former captain Ramiz Raja on Saturday stressed the need for a
strong system in Pakistan cricket, saying a young leader in
Shoaib Malik needs support to be successful.


Pakistan on Thursday appointed Malik as successor to Inzamam-ul-
Haq after a disastrous and tragic World Cup where they crashed
out in the first-round following an upset three-wicket defeat
against the first-timers Ireland.


The 25-year-old Malik's appointment is seen as a step towards the
future, something Raja believed could only be good if the young
leader is given strong support.


"On one side it is a good decision because he is gutsy and a team
player but he can be emotional and temperamental because he has
not been tested at the top level so he needs a strong system for
support," Raja told AFP.


"I am a bit guarded as well, it's young leadership but it can
only be good if you strengthen the system which must assure the
young talent is not taken hostage by senior players."


Younis Khan, deputy to Inzamam, declined the offer for personal
reasons while some senior players like the prolific batsman
Mohammad Yousuf, all-rounder Abdul Razaq and dashing batsman
Shahid Afridi were bypassed.


Ramiz, however, backed the decision of appointing a young
captain.


"It is a right decision because every team is now looking four
years ahead to give it a refreshing look and for me it is a
chance worth taking and its now up to Malik to show his
capabilities," said Raja, who played 57 Tests and 198 one- day
internationals for Pakistan.


When asked would Malik be haunted for throwing a domestic
Twenty20 match two years ago, Raja said the incident was mis-
interpreted.


"It was a different scenario and was mis-interpreted. It wasn't a
case of throwing a match and Malik would now realise how
important it would be to keep emotions under control," said Raja,
also a former chief-executive of the Pakistan Cricket Board.


Malik, incensed over a penalty for slow over-rate, admitted he
conceded a match to knock out a rival team from the semi-final.


He was later banned from one Test and fined 75 percent of his two
one-day matches fee.


Raja said Pakistan should take a leaf out of England book who
disciplined Andrew Flintoff.


"Look how England disciplined Flintoff during the World Cup and
have closed the doors of captaincy on him. It should be tight
like that and any indiscipline should not be tolerated."


Malik was also late coach Bob Woolmer's first choice as the
future captain and wanted the all-rounder to be groomed as a
leader on the lines of South Africa's Graeme Smith.


"To me Malik has all the qualities of a shrewd leader. He has the
mannerism and the guile to lead Pakistan but I would like him to
adopt an approach like Smith," Woolmer said last year.

