

The opening day of the Fed Cup World Group threw up no surprises
Saturday with hosts Italy, Russia and France all moving within
one point of overall victory in their first round ties.


Defending champions Italy took a 2-0 lead in Castellaneta Marina
after China's Peng Shuai retired injured in her tie against
Flavia Pennetta.


The Chinese number one held match points at 5-4 in the second
set, but pulled out in the third set with a left hamstring
injury, with Pennetta winning through 0-6, 7-5, 3-0.


Earlier Tathiana Garbin battled to a 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 victory over
Olympic doubles champion Sun Tian-Tian in an encounter which
lasted 2hr 38 minutes.


Italy are now just one point away from a semi-final place against
either France or Japan in July.


But Peng's injury gives China captain Qi Zhang a selection
problem for Sunday's reverse singles and doubles ties with two
lowly-ranked novices Zhang Shuai and Sun Sheng-Nan to choose
between.


In Limoges, Nathalie Dechy beat Japan's top-ranked player Ai
Sugiyama 7-5, 6-1 and Tatiana Golovin brushed aside Akiko
Morigami 6-2, 6-4.


Golovin, who has taken over as team leader as world number three
Amelie Mauresmo recovers from appendicitis, gave 27-year-old
Morigami no chance to avenge her loss in her only previous
meeting with the 19-year-old Frenchwoman at the 2004 US Open.


Golovin took the first set against 55th-ranked Morigami in 30
minutes and resisted a fightback by her Japanese opponent in the
second.


"I let up a bit in the second set, mainly because of the tension.
She started to serve very well but I was stronger mentally," said
Golovin.


Earlier Dechy won a battle of nerves against Fed Cup veteran
Sugiyama.


After an intense battle lasting 65 minutes, Sugiyama was the
first to crack at 6-5 with a double fault allowing Dechy to claim
the first set during which the Frenchwoman had to save seven of
eight break points.


In Moscow, Svetlana Kuznetsova and Nadia Petrova gave Russia a
commanding 2-0 lead beating Spaniards Lourdes Dominguez-Lino and
Anabel Medina Garrigues respectively.


Russia's 21-year-old Kuznetsova, who was tied at 1-1 with
Dominguez-Lino ahead of Saturday's clash, won in straight sets
6-3, 6-2 to put Russia 2-0 up.


Earlier Petrova gave Russia the first rubber clinching her second
head-to-head win over Medina Garrigues 6-3, 6-4 in as many
meetings.


The winner will play either the United States or Belgium in the
next round.


In Delray Beach, Venus Williams gave the United States the first
point of their tie against Belgium when she beat Kirsten Flipkens
7-5, 6-2, with sister Serena Williams due to take on Caroline
Maes later Saturday.


The US are the overwhelming favourites with Belgian stars Justine
Henin and Kim Clijsters not competing.

