

Alan Pardew remained defiant about Charlton's Premiership
survival chances despite a potentially costly 1-1 draw against
fellow strugglers Sheffield United.


Charlton now sit third from bottom of the table with 33 points,
two adrift from safety with only three games remaining.


The Addicks face a daunting run-in with a home clash against
Tottenham sandwiched between trips to Blackburn and Liverpool.


Pardew accepted the draw has left Charlton in a precarious
position, but he refused to be downcast about his team's
prospects.


"The percentage chance of us staying up will have gone down but I
think picking the players up will be easy," claimed the ex-West
Ham manager.


"They can just take solace from the fact we've been on a
fantastic run. Other results have gone our way and it's all to
play for. It's going to be tense and there are going to be more
moments."


Pardew refused to be drawn on how many points he thought would be
needed for survival. He said: "I've absolutely no idea how many
points it will take to stay up. It's obvious we need one more
win, but who knows, that might be enough."


Pardew criticised referee Alan Wiley for his role in United's
equaliser, claiming the official didn't allow him to take off the
injured Ben Thatcher.


"We were desperately trying to get two substitutes on, Thatcher
had a hip injury and he was the player involved in their goal,"
bemoaned the Charlton boss.


Moroccan international Talal El-Karkouri broke the deadlock for
the home team on the hour-mark, sparking dreams of survival.


The defender took control of the ball 35-yards out from goal
before hitting a speculative drive which took a deflection off
Matthew Kilgallon to leave goalkeeper Paddy Kenny helpless.


But the home fans' joy only lasted eleven minutes as the Blades
responded with a well-taken equaliser from Jonathan Stead.


The ex-Blackburn man received the ball from Nick Montgomery
before surging to the edge of the penalty area and hammering an
unstopable shot into the bottom right-hand corner of the goal.


It was the striker's second strike within a week adding to his
effort against West Ham.


The result brought an end to a dismal run of eight away defeats
in a row for the Yorkshiremen.


Blades manager Neil Warnock urged caution despite his team's
seemingly easy run- in, which sees them entertain relegated
Watford and struggling Wigan at Bramall Lane.


"If you know Aidy Boothroyd and his Watford lads they'll be
fighting to the death," he said. "We know what we're in for.


"I don't think anything's won on paper, there's so many twist and
turns but I've got to be pleased with certain results today.


"I don't think Charlton are neccessaraly down, it's amazing what
can happen."


The long serving manager had praise for Stead's influence since
his January transfer-window move from Sunderland.


"He's been very harshly treated," Warnock said. "He single-
handedly kept Blackburn up but then had a couple of difficult
seasons.


"He's been a breath of fresh air and has lifted all the players.
He always plays with a smile on his face."


Warnock insisted that out of the struggling teams, United were
the side feeling the least expectations.


He said: "There's pressure on everybody. If you look at the teams
down there, West Ham, Charlton, Wigan and Fulham, I don't think
anybody would envisage them being in the position that they are
in.


"But everbody would have said Sheffield United would be in there,
so the pressure is not so much on us."

