

England captain Michael Vaughan has given a boost to South
Africa's bid to stop Australia's unbeaten run in the World Cup.


South African coach Mickey Arthur revealed on Saturday that
Vaughan had given him valuable advice about conditions in St
Lucia, where South Africa meet Australia in a semi-final showdown
Wednesday.


England were based in St Lucia for their group matches but no
South African team has played at the island's Beausejour ground.


"I've actually chatted quite a lot with Michael Vaughan," said
Arthur.


"He came over and offered a lot of advice about St Lucia which
was something I didn't expect. He told us about the wicket.
There's quite a prevailing wind helping swing bowlers when they
bowl from one end of the ground. He told us how it played when
they were there. It was very nice of him."


Although the Beausejour ground has a reputation for being slow
with low bounce, which would not suit South Africa's fast
bowlers, Arthur said he was encouraged by Vaughan's comment about
swing bowling.


"He said it was one of the best wickets, other than Barbados,
that they have played on. It did a little early in the morning
when it was damp and then it became really nice to bat on later,"
said Arthur.


The South Africans had a net practice Saturday, their first since
qualifying for the semi-finals and ending England's hopes with a
nine-wicket win in Barbados Tuesday.


They had a day off Wednesday, worked out in a gym Thursday and
played soccer Friday.


Arthur said he had opted for three days away from cricket because
of the long gaps between games.


"Just when you hit the ground and you think you have some
momentum going then you sit and wait for a week before you play
again. You can't just keep going to nets," he said.


He felt Saturday's workout, followed by a flight to St Lucia
Sunday and two more days of nets would be enough to get the
players ready.


If South Africa could reproduce the form they showed against
England Arthur said he was confident they could become the first
team to defeat Australia in a World Cup match since Steve Waugh's
team lost to Pakistan at Headingley in 1999.


"There is a lot of relief," admitted Arthur. "But we deserve to
be in the semi- final. England was the most clinical display the
guys have produced since I took over. It encompassed everything
we wanted and is the way we want to play cricket."


Arthur said stopping Australia's hard-hitting opening batsmen,
Matthew Hayden and Adam Gilchrist, was a key factor, admitting
that the pair's explosive hitting had set the tone for
Australia's 83-run win when the team's met in a group match in St
Kitts last month.


"To beat Australia you've got to be on top of your game in all
three disciplines," he said.


"You can't afford to wane on one. When we played them in St Kitts
they got the upper hand very quickly with the bat. They
dominated."


Arthur said Australia's middle order had not batted much because
of the form of their top order players, which he believed could
make them vulnerable if South Africa were able to take early
wickets.


He also believes pressure could be put on Australia's back-up
bowlers when Glenn McGrath and Nathan Bracken were not bowling.

