

An Indian MP's assistant has accused two more federal lawmakers
of links to a people-smuggling plot, that saw his boss arrested
for using family passports to try and fly a woman and a boy to
Canada, reports said Saturday.


Hindu nationalist MP, Babubhai Katara, was arrested Wednesday at
New Delhi's Indira Gandhi international airport along with the
woman and teenager, minutes before the three were to board a
Toronto-bound Air India flight.


Sundarlal Yadav -- assistant to the main opposition Bharatiya
Janata Party MP -- has now been captured by the police after
going on the run, a senior Delhi police officer said.


"He was produced before the magistrate in court (today) and there
he named one BJP MP and another from the (regional BSP party) in
the alleged human smuggling plot," said one of the officers
probing the case. The regional Bahujan Samaj Party has its base
among the lower castes in northern India.


Yadav told the court that he had introduced two travel agents to
the MPs, the Press Trust of India news agency said.


He added he had received 50,000 rupees to 100,000 rupees (1,136
to 2,270 dollars) for the introduction but added he was unaware
of any intention to smuggle people out, the report said.


Katara, the woman and son, were arrested after airport staff
noticed that passport photographs of Katara's wife and son in
their passports did not match the faces of the woman and the
youth.


Police suspect Katara of being involved in a scam to smuggle the
two out of the country in return for cash and on Thursday, a
Delhi court ordered Katara to spend 10 days in police custody and
sent the teenager to a remand home, pending further inquiries.


The scandal is the latest to embroil the country's political
classes. A number of politicians face criminal charges but their
cases have still to be resolved under India's slow-moving justice
system.


Last year, an Indian cabinet minister was sentenced to life for
kidnapping and murdering an aide who was blackmailing the
minister over a political scandal.


In 2005, 11 MPs were caught on camera stuffing wads of bank notes
into their pockets in exchange for asking questions in the
parliament in a television sting operation.


A 2004 study by an independent watchdog found nearly one quarter
of the 540-plus representatives in the lower house of parliament
faced criminal charges, including murder and rape.

