

A spectacular Barry Ferguson overhead kick handed Rangers a 2-1
victory at home to Hearts to all but clinch second place in the
Scottish Premier League.


The Tynecastle team had been ahead at half-time through
Lithuanian Andrius Velicka but Gavin Rae levelled after the break
and with 11 minutes remaining the Ibrox club's captain secured
all three points.


With third place Aberdeen being held to a 2-2 by Hibernian at
Pittodrie, Rangers are now 10 points ahead in the race for the
runners-up spot with only four games to go.


And the victory also meant Celtic must win away to Kilmarnock on
Sunday to clinch their second consecutive SPL title.


Rangers had dominating the early play but it was Hearts who took
the lead in the 15th minute.


Ghanaian Laryea Kingston picked the ball up in the centre of the
pitch and carried the ball to the edge of the Ibrox side's
penalty area before sliding a well weighted pass into Velicka.


The Lithuanian looked up before firing a low shot across Rangers
goalkeeper Allan McGregor into the corner of the net.


Rangers resumed control of possession after the goal but it took
them until the 38th minute to again threaten Hearts goalkeeper
Craig Gordon's goal.


Kevin Thomson's cross from the left found Bosnian defender Sasa
Papac and his powerful header looked destined for the top corner
of the net until Gordon threw himself to his right to tip away.


Unfortunately for Papac he clashed heads with Hearts defender
Christophe Berra going for the ball and was duly stretchered off
to be replaced by Ian Murray.


At the start of the second half Rangers continued to push forward
and they were rewarded in the 52nd minute.


Alan Hutton did well to drive down the right to the byline before
chipping the ball back towards the penalty spot where midfielder
Rae was waiting to send a downward header beyond Gordon.


Although Rangers were controlling the match Hearts were still
looking dangerous.


In the 61st minute Kingston had a chance to test Rangers
goalkeeper McGregor, with the home side's defence guilty of
backing off, but the Ghanaian midfielder sliced his shot
harmlessly wide from 20-yards.


Rangers looked as if they were beginning to run out of ideas but
in the 79th minute a wonder strike by their captain put them
ahead.


Croatian striker Dado Prso's cross was met by French-Algerian
Brahim Hemdani who headed the ball towards Ferguson.


The Rangers skipper chested the ball before spinning to send a
spectacular left- footed overhead kick into the top corner of the
net and clinch the vital victory.


Elsewhere in the SPL on Saturday Aberdeen had earlier drawn 2-2
at home to Hibernian, who ended the match with nine men.


The visitors had taken the lead through Damon Gray but the Dons
levelled through Russell Anderson. However, before the half-time
break Dean Shiels restored Hibs's lead.


At the start of the second half Aberdeen missed a penalty through
Darren Mackie and then Hibs were reduced to 10 men when Sean
Lynch was sent off.


Richard Foster equalised for the home team in the 79th minute
before Hibs's Dermot McCaffrey received a second booking and
subsequent red card.


Bottom of the table Dunfermline grabbed an SPL survival lifeline
with a 1-0 win at home to Dundee United to move to within one
point of St Mirren, who play away to Falkirk on Monday.


Tam McManus score the Pars's winner before the break.


And in the final match on Saturday Inverness Caledonian Thistle
won 2-0 at home to Motherwell with Craig Dargo scoring both goals
in the first half.

