

Dirk Kuyt's double sent Liverpool into next week's Champions
League clash with Chelsea on a high on a day that saw Watford
become the first casualty of the Premiership's cut-throat
relegation battle.


Dutch striker Kuyt guaranteed the Reds of a top four finish with
a goal in either half of their 2-0 win over Wigan that leaves
Paul Jewell's side just two points clear of the relegation zone.


Watford's drop back to the Championship after one season in the
top flight became a mathematical certainty as a result of their
1-1 draw at home to Manchester City.


Former England striker Darius Vassell gave City the lead early in
the second half and although Hungarian striker Tamas Priskin
equalised with quarter of an hour left, it was not enough to save
Watford from a fate that has looked inevitable since October.


West Ham were Saturday's big winners in the battle for survival,
Bobby Zamora's superb first-half strike earning Alan Curbishley's
side a precious 1-0 win over Everton at Upton Park.


The win left the Hammers within three points of fourth-from-
bottom Sheffield United, who came from a goal down to grab a 1-1
draw at fellow strugglers Charlton.


Charlton had been on track for a win that would have lifted them
out of the bottom three after Talal El Karkouri gave them a lead
just before the hour mark.


But Jon Stead grabbed an equaliser ten minutes later to keep the
Blades' two points above the drop zone.


Fulham also remain embroiled in the dogfight at the bottom after
failing to defend a lead against Blackburn, a 1-1 draw extending
their winless run to nine matches.


Vincenzo Montella scored the Cottagers' first goal under new boss
Lawrie Sanchez to give them a tenth-minute lead but free-scoring
South African Benni McCarthy grabbed a deserved second-half
equaliser for Blackburn.


Arsenal ended a week dominated by boardroom turbulence on a
frustrating note as Jermaine Jenas's 25-yard-strike earned
Tottenham a 2-2 draw deep into injury time in the north London
derby.


The Gunners, who trailed to Robbie Keane's early header before
going ahead through Kolo Toure and Emmanuel Adebayor, squandered
a series of chances and hit the woodwork three times in a
performance that summed up their season.


"We have great quality in our game but we have to learn to make
the maximum out of the chances we create," manager Arsene Wenger
admitted after the club's first match since the shock departure
of David Dein, the former vice-chairman who brought him to
London.


Wenger insisted uncertainty created by Dein's ousting from the
board - linked to takeover overtures from American tycoon Stan
Kroenke - would not prove a distraction for his players.


"There is always talk," the Frenchman said. "That is what happens
at a big club. It is down to your mental strength and we showed
we have some of that."


Reading reignited their hopes of ending their first season in the
Premiership with a UEFA Cup place thanks to the Irish-made late
rally that secured a 3-1 win at Bolton.


The home side looked set for maximum points thanks to an own goal
by Nicky Shorey.


But Steve Coppell's side got back on level terms through an 84th-
minute penalty from Kevin Doyle. The Ireland striker notched a
second five minutes later and an injury time strike from his
international team-mate Stephen Hunt rounded off a win that
lifted Reading into seventh place in the table.

