

Al-Hilal of Sudan staged a stunning comeback this weekend to
reach the African Champions League group phase for the first
time.


Trailing international rookies Nasarawa United of Nigeria 3-0
after the first leg of a third round qualifier, perennial African
campaigners Hilal triumphed by the same score at home before
winning 3-2 on penalties.


Hilal have failed at the final hurdle four times in six previous
challenges to qualify for the 3.5-million-dollar mini-league
stage where the eight survivors are split into two groups.


Success came after a multi-national effort with Mozambican Dario
Khan opening the scoring after 38 minutes, Nigerian Kelechi
Osunwa adding the  second and Sudanese Youssef Mohammed getting
the third with five minutes left.


Appearing in the Champions League for the first time, Nasarawa
from the central town of Lafia now face fellow Nigerians Kwara
United in an African Confederation Cup playoff next month.


There was also drama in Algeria as local club Jeunesse Sportive
Kabylie scored with one minute left to defeat Cotonsport Garoua
of Cameroon 2-0 and clinch a second consecutive appearance in the
pool phase.


Cotonsport took a 1-0 advantage into the match and contained the
'Canaries' until the 65th minute in Algiers when Mali-born Omar
Dabo scored his fifth goal of the competition to bring the clubs
level on aggregate.


And with a penalty shootout looming, Kabylie substitute Nassim
Hamlaoui scored to leave Cotonsport still seeking a group place
after seven attempts   over 10 years.


The pressure will be on Kabylie to at least reach the semi-finals
after a dismal showing last year by a club that is based in the
eastern town of Tizi Ouzou but stages all international fixtures
in Algiers.


Kabylie, who won the competition in 1981 and 1990 when it was
called the African Champions Cup, managed only one win in six
2006 group matches and finished bottom of the standings.


Garoua will face Club Sportif Sfaxien of Tunisia or Issia Wazi of
Ivory Coast in the Confederation Cup playoffs.

