

Police have detained the girlfriend of the alleged leader of the
assailants who brutally killed three Protestants in eastern
Turkey, bringing the number of people in custody to 12, officials
said Saturday.


She is the girlfriend of Emre Gunaydin, 19, who remains in
hospital after jumping from the third-storey office of a
Christian publishing house in Malatya, where two Turks and a
German were slain Wednesday, Governor Halil Ibrahim Dasoz said in
televised remarks.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were killed by knife-wielding assailants who tied the
men to chairs and tortured them before cutting their throats.


Four suspects were captured at the crime scene when police raided
the publishing house office, alerted by a member of the local
Protestant community who grew suspicious when he found the office
door locked.


Gunaydin, who allegedly led the gang, jumped from the window in
an apparent bid to escape arrest and was hospitalised with
serious head injury.


He had reportedly made several visits beforehand to the
publishing house to gain the confidence of the people working
there.


Doctors said Saturday his condition was improving and he might be
fit for questioning next week.


"We attempted to wake him up today, but he woke up a bit
aggressively... We will try again tomorrow (Sunday) or the
following day," Sezai Yilmaz, the head of the hospital treating
the man, told Anatolia news agency.


Officials have not revealed the details of the remaining six
suspects, who were detained Thursday and Friday, saying only that
everyone in custody is aged 19 and 20.


One of them, who was detained in Istanbul, was also brought to
Malatya for questioning, the governor said.


According to media reports, the killers are believed to be
members of a cell of nationalist-Islamist fanatics similar to one
in the northern city of Trabzon blamed for the January murder of
Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant Dink.


Before killing the victims, the assailants reportedly tortured
them for three hours as they interrogated them on their
missionary activities.


The Zirve publishing house distributed Bibles and published
Christian literature.


Proselytizing is not banned in Muslim, secular Turkey, but is
generally viewed with suspicion.


Prosecutors are looking into whether there was an illegal
organisation or a mastermind behind the attack.


The murders were the latest attack on non-Muslim minorities in
Turkey following Dink's killing and the shooting of Italian Roman
Catholic priest Andrea Santoro in Trabzon in February 2006.


They were strongly condemned by the international community.


Germany, which holds the rotating presidency of the European
Union which Turkey is seeking to join, has urged Ankara to take
measures to protect religious freedom.

