

President Fidel Castro met with a top Chinese official for an
hour, the government said, in another sign the convalescing
leader is unofficially assuming more of his customary official
duties.


"For an hour, Fidel met with a member of the (Chinese Communist
Party). The meeting was fruitful and touched on a number of
themes," according to a government statement released on Friday.


The exchange was "an expression of the excellent relations that
have developed between the two countries," especially since a
2004 visit by Chinese President Hu Jintao.


Saturday, the Cuban Communist Party newspaper Granma ran two
still photos of Castro and Wu -- the first official media picture
of Fidel Castro since January 30. The most recent photo of him,
with Colombian author and friend Gabriel Garcia Marquez, was run
by the Colombian daily El Tiempo last month.


In the new images, Castro appears in a black and red track suit,
both sitting and standing, and appeared to have gained back some
of the weight he lost during his illness.


The official who met Castro, Wu Guanzheng, is a member of the
Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China. He
reportedly brought a card for the Cuban leader from Hu.


Wu arrived in Cuba on Thursday for a four-day official visit that
is part of a tour that includes Colombia and Chile.


The government of China "considers its relations with the
Communist Party and the government of Cuba a matter of high
importance," Wu said.


After meeting with Castro, Wu saw his brother, acting president
Raul Castro, who has served in Castro's place since July, and
discussed "national and international issues of interest to both
countries and marked the excellent relations between the two
parties, governments and peoples," the report said.


China is Cuba's second-most important trade partner after
Venezuela, with two- way trade close to two billion dollars in
2006, and one of Cuba's principal sources of credit.


After the talks, Raul Castro and Wu signed a bilateral agreement
on economic and technical cooperation as well as a protocol on
changes in a bilateral accord on investment protection.


Last August China urged non-interference in the affairs of Cuba,
following comments by US President George W. Bush offering US
support for "democratic change" in the Caribbean nation after
Fidel had ceded power to his brother.


"China has all along stood for mutual respect between nations and
mutual non- interference in the affairs of other nations," the
Chinese foreign ministry said at that time.


"We believe that the internal affairs of Cuba should be decided
by the Cuban peoples themselves."


Castro underwent intestinal surgery last July and temporarily
handed over power to Raul, the defense chief.


However, in December, he managed to send New Year's greetings to
Hu through the Chinese ambassador in Cuba.

