

A spectacular Barry Ferguson overhead kick handed Rangers a 2-1
victory at home to Hearts to all but clinch second place in the
Scottish Premier League.


The Tynecastle team had been ahead at half-time through
Lithuanian Andrius Velicka but Gavin Rae levelled after the break
and with 11 minutes remaining the Ibrox club's captain secured
all three points.


With second place Aberdeen being held to a 2-2 at Pittodrie,
Rangers are now 10 points ahead in the race for the runners-up
spot with only four games to go.


And the victory also meant Celtic, who are 10 points ahead of the
Ibrox side, must win away to Kilmarnock on Sunday to clinch their
second consecutive SPL title.


Rangers manager Walter Smith was pleased with his players'
fighting spirit.


He said: "We started the match well and it was slackness which
gifted them their goal.


"But we managed to peg them back and I was delighted with the
players' attitude overall.


"Both our goals were great and I knew it was going to take
something special to beat Craig Gordon as he had made some
tremendous saves earlier on.


"It's not finished yet but we are now in a strong position to
finish second."


Rangers had dominating the early play but it was Hearts who took
the lead in the 15th minute.


Ghanaian Laryea Kingston picked the ball up in the centre of the
pitch and carried the ball to the edge of the Ibrox side's
penalty area before sliding a well weighted pass into Velicka.


The Lithuanian looked up before firing a low shot across Rangers
goalkeeper Allan McGregor into the corner of the net.


Rangers continued to push forward and they were finally rewarded
with a 52nd minute equaliser.


Alan Hutton drove to the byline before chipping the ball back for
midfielder Rae who sent a downward header past Hearts goalkeeper
Craig Gordon from 12-yards.


Although Rangers were controlling the match Hearts were still
looking dangerous.


Rangers looked as if they were beginning to run out of ideas but
in the 79th minute a wonder strike by their captain put them
ahead.


Croatian striker Dado Prso's cross was met by French-Algerian
Brahim Hemdani who headed the ball towards Ferguson.


The Rangers skipper chested the ball before spinning to send a
spectacular left- footed overhead kick into the top corner of the
net and clinch the vital victory.


Hearts assistant head coach Stephen Frail said: "We came with a
plan to frustrate Rangers and it worked with the goal we scored
but we are still disappointed with the result.


"I was pleased we showed we have decent players who can come to
Ibrox and pass the ball and we scored a great goal but in the end
you need that wee something extra to take something from games
like this."


Elsewhere in the SPL on Saturday Aberdeen drew 2-2 at home to
Hibernian, who ended the match with nine men after Sean Lynch and
Dermot McCaffrey were sent off in the second half.


Goals from Damon Gray and Dean Shiels put Hibs 2-1 ahead at the
break, after the Dons had briefly levelled through Russell
Anderson. However, Richard Foster equalised for the home team in
the 79th minute.


Bottom of the table Dunfermline grabbed an SPL survival lifeline
with a 1-0 win at home to Dundee United, courtesy of Tam McManus'
goal to move to within one point of St Mirren, who play away to
Falkirk on Monday.


In the final match on Saturday Inverness Caledonian Thistle won
2-0 at home to Motherwell with Craig Dargo scoring both goals in
the first half.

