

Emotional fans bid farewell to Brian Lara here on Saturday,
saying the West Indian batting legend would be remembered for
entertaining crowds throughout the world in his 17-year
international career.


When Lara walked out to the middle at the Kensington Oval for the
toss in the World Cup clash against England, he was roundly
applauded as the 30,000-capacity stadium began to fill eager to
see the great Trinidadian play his last international match.


"On behalf of umpires and match referees, I congratulate Brian
Lara on a glittering career and wish him the best in the future,"
said chief referee Ranjan Madugalle.


The 37-year-old West Indies captain lost the toss but was still
cheered.


"I thank the people who have come here to see my last match,"
said Lara.


His team-mates shook hands with him, there was a final group
photograph and even the umpires had their picture taken with him.


Lara played 131 Tests, scoring 11,953 runs with 34 centuries.


He holds the twin world records of the highest Test innings of
400 not out and highest first-class score of 501 not out.


Saturday's match was his 299th one-day international.


Shawn Carter, wearing a maroon West Indian shirt with Lara's
number nine on the back, said he had travelled from Trinidad to
salute his hero.


"I want to see Lara bowing out with a hundred, nothing short,"
said Carter, who claims to have watched all of Lara's matches
since his debut in 1990.


"It's an irony that his last World Cup didn't bring the desired
result," said Carter of the West Indies' failure to qualify for
the semi-finals.


Another fan Edward Sobers, named after former West Indian great
Sir Garry Sobers, said Lara will be missed.


"I saw Sobers' last match and now I have the same feeling when
Sobers was departing. They are two greats who played in different
eras. Sobers was fortunate to have other greats with him, Lara
stood out as the only top man in an otherwise weak team.


"Sobers, I think was more adored. Lara subjected to jealousy
rather than affection."


Leeandra Clarke said she even had a crush on Lara.


"I have loved Lara, for he had the personality to be adored. I
know there are millions who loved him but my love was different,"
said Clarke, who has over 200 pictures of the player in her
house.


The stands were full of West Indies flags and farewell banners.


Most proclaimed "we'll miss you", "Lara, the great," and "Lara,
we owe you a thank-you."


Vernon Lavine thinks Lara should not have retired.


"I think West Indies cricket still needs him and probably he
should have toured England and then announced his retirement.
Perhaps he wanted to play his last match before his home crowd,"
said Lavine.

