

Police have detained the girlfriend of one of the suspected
assailants of three Protestants brutally slain in eastern Turkey,
bringing the number of people in custody to 12, officials said
Saturday.


She is the girlfriend of a suspect who remains in critical
condition after jumping from the third-storey office of a
Christian publishing house in Malatya, where two Turks and a
German were killed Wednesday, Governor Halil Ibrahim Dasoz said
in televised remarks.


Another suspect, detained in Istanbul Friday, was brought to
Malatya for questioning, he said.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were killed by knife-wielding assailants who tied the
men to chairs and tortured them before cutting their throats.


According to media reports, the killers are believed to be
members of a cell of nationalist-Islamist fanatics similar to one
in the northern city of Trabzon blamed for the January murder of
Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant Dink.


Before killing the victims, the assailants reportedly tortured
them for three hours as they interrogated them on their
missionary activities.


The Zirve publishing house distributed Bibles and published
Christian literature.


Proselytizing is not banned in Muslim, secular Turkey, but is
generally viewed with suspicion.


The murders were the latest attack on non-Muslim minorities in
the country following Dink's killing and the shooting of Italian
Roman Catholic priest Andrea Santoro in Trabzon in February 2006.


They were strongly condemned by the international community.


Germany, which holds the rotating presidency of the European
Union which Turkey is seeking to join, has urged Ankara to take
measures to protect religious freedom.


Four of the suspects were captured at the crime scene when police
raided the publishing house office, alerted by a member of the
local Protestant community who grew suspicious when he found the
office door locked.


A fifth suspect, 19-year-old Emre Gunaydin, who was allegedly the
leader of the gang, jumped from the window in an apparent bid to
escape arrest.


Officials have not revealed the details of the remaining five
suspects, who were detained the following day, saying only that
everyone in custody is aged 19 and 20.


Prosecutors are looking into whether there was an illegal
organisation or a mastermind behind the attack.


Gunaydin had reportedly made several visits beforehand to the
publishing house to gain the confidence of the people working
there, newspapers said.

