

Reigning champion Graeme Dott suffered a shock opening-round exit
at the World Snooker Championships at the Crucible on Saturday.


The Scot was beaten 10-7 by England's Ian McCulloch to ensure
that once again a first-time winner has never come back to make a
successful defence of their title.


Dott trailed 5-4 after the first session of his best-of-19 clash,
but should have led 5-2 if he not missed a pot on the black ball.


McCulloch had match breaks of 46, 63, 110, 51 and, from 5-4 ahead
after the first nine frames, always led before a second-round
showdown with either Anthony Hamilton or Marco Fu.


"The way (Ian) plays frustrated the life out of me, but I beat
myself really," said the 29-year-old Dott.


"I've never felt like that. I felt as though I was letting him
beat me.


"I felt absolutely horrible, that defeat has ruined a perfectly
good season."


Dott is now likely to miss out on being crowned the new world
number one this season despite last month winning the China Open
final in Beijing, dispensing with 'Rocket' Ronnie O'Sullivan in
the semi-finals.


England's Hamilton, meanwhile, opened up a healthy 6-1 advantage
over Hong Kong's Fu, a Crucible semi-finalist last season, before
their match was dragged off set two frames early because it was
going too slowly.


John Parrott led fellow veteran Steve Davis 6-3 in their first-
round clash courtesy of breaks of 90, 126 and 55.


Welshman Matthew Stevens made the perfect start to his
championship campaign by establishing a welcome 7-2 lead over
Crucible debutant Joe Delaney.


Ireland's Delaney, making his first appearance at the Crucible
since turning pro 16 years ago, struggled badly to find any form
against Stevens, the 2005 runner- up, who took full advantage to
leave himself needing three frames for a place in the next round.


World number 14 Stevens was not at his sparkling best, but breaks
of 60, 45, 69 and 53 were enough for the former UK champion to
power ahead against the Irish qualifier.


Delaney pocketed a high break of 73 to win his first frame when
trailing 6-0, but Stevens won the next frame to keep his title
hopes on track.

