

Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo on Saturday pledged the
government would not tamper with presidential election results as
he thanked God that no lives were lost in two separate attacks
that have marred the historic poll.


"I want to assure Nigerians that this government is a law abiding
government. It has no reason to tamper with the results of
elections," he said after casting his vote in his native city,
Abeokuta in the southwest.


"This government and my PDP (People's Democratic Party) party has
no reason for that. There is no party that has campaigned as much
as my party," he added.


"I also want to thank God and I hope well-meaning Nigerians will
join me in thanking God because for those who do not want these
elections to take place, they have left no stone unturned to make
sure it does not hold," he said.


Hours before polling was due to start, there was an attempt to
blow up the headquarters of the electoral commission (INEC) in
Abuja, while the night before shooting broke out at Yenoaga,
capital of southern Baleysa state, where the PDP's candidate for
the vice-presidency, Goodluck Jonathan, was staying.


"What happened in Bayelsa State last night, if it had succeeded,
we probably would not have known the whereabouts of Jonathan by
now or he would have been dead," said Obasanjo.


If the planned attack on INEC headquarters had come off, "there
would have been debris and deaths because of the location," he
added.


"It would have been a flow of blood and debris of destructions,"
he said.


In southern Bayelsa, Jonathan and his wife, Patience, voted
around noon at his Itu Oke village outside Yenagoa, an AFP
correspondent at the scene said.


Commenting on last night's failed attempt on his life, Jonathan,
who is also the state governor, said:


"Security reports said that the attack was carried out by
miscreants who came from neighbouring states. Their motive was to
scuttle the election. So far, there are no recorded casulaties
from the incident".

