

A Palestinian was killed in an Israeli air strike on his car in
Gaza on Saturday, minutes after two Israelis were wounded by a
rocket he fired on the Jewish state, medical and security sources
said.


Kamal Anan, 37, of the radical Islamic Jihad group was killed
when an Israeli aircraft fired a missile at his vehicle in
Jabaliya, northern Gaza Strip. Another militant was lightly
wounded.


The Israeli raid came minutes after two Israeli civilians were
lightly wounded in a Palestinian attack in the southern town of
Sderot, some five kilometres (three miles) from the Gaza Strip.


"A house in Sderot sustained a direct hit from a Qassam rocket.
Two people were taken to hospital with light wounds," a spokesman
for the Magen David Adom rescue services told AFP.


Four other people were treated for shock at the site, he said.


According to an Israeli army spokesman, Palestinians had fired
three projectiles at Israel on Saturday. He had no immediate
comment on the strike in Gaza.


Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP
following the rocket attack that "Israel expects the Palestinian
leadership to entirely stop rocket fire from the Gaza Strip."


Militants in the Gaza Strip regularly fire rockets against
Israel, despite a ceasefire agreement reached between Palestinian
groups and the Jewish state on November 26.


At the beginning of April, Defence Minister Amir Peretz ordered
troops to take decisive action against militants and rocket fire.


In other violence, Israeli troops on Saturday shot dead three
Palestinian militants during a raid in the West Bank town of
Jenin, Palestinian security and medical sources said.


Israeli special forces opened fire on a car, killing Abbas al-
Damaj and Ahmad Ayassa from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, a
militant offshoot of president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah movement.


A third militant from Islamic Jihad died of his wounds shortly
after being hit in the same incident, the sources said.


The Israeli army said that "during an operation in Jenin, a
border police special force identified three militants firing at
them and returned fire, hitting the three."


Earlier on Saturday, Israeli troops shot dead a Palestinian
policeman, 23-year- old Mohammed Abed, during an operation in
Jenin.


Saturday's deaths brought to 5,665 the overall toll since the
eruption of the current Palestinian uprising in September 2000,
the vast majority of them Palestinians, according to an AFP
count.

