

Liverpool guaranteed their place in next season's Champions
League on an afternoon when their thoughts were clearly on next
week's semi-final in this year's competition.


But the Dirk Kuyt double that delivered a 2-0 victory over Wigan
at Anfield offers a far more worrying prospect for the losers.


Paul Jewell's team, who themselves entertained thoughts of
qualifying for Europe during an impressive debut season in the
Premiership last year, were left just three points above the
relegation zone as Kuyts goals and results elsewhere, conspired
against them.


Wigan shamelessly set out their stall in an effort to collect
what would have been a priceless point towards their aim of
Premiership safety, five men packing midfield against a Liverpool
unit missing Steven Gerrard, rested and placed on the bench by
Benitez ahead of Wednesday's first leg with Chelsea.


Even without their most consistent and impressive performer, who
missed a Premiership start for the first time in a year,
Liverpool were still far too strong and talented for their
struggling opponents.


John Arne Riise and Bolo Zenden missed with shots from the edge
of the Wigan area as Liverpool patiently probed at the massed
Wigan defensive ranks and, with the visitors showing little
initiative or ability in attack, the only question remained how
long it would take the home side to score.


The answer was half an hour. After Wigan failed to clear Xabi
Alonso's driven right-wing cross, Jermaine Pennant drilled the
ball back into the area from the left flank and Kuyt leaped above
Matt Jackson, taking advantage of poor positioning from
goalkeeper John Filan, to head in his 12th goal of the season.


Peter Crouch should have doubled the lead, and put the result
beyond all reasonable doubt, in the last minute of the first half
as he met Pennant's well- aimed cross with a mis-hit first time
volley that flew tamely wide.


And, in the opening moments of the second half, Kuyt's cross
picked out Mark Gonzalez's near post run but the Chilean winger
failed to control and Emmerson Boyce was able to hack the loose
ball to safety.


By that stage, Jewell had brought on Henri Camara as a half-time
replacement for Ryan Taylor and gone with a two-man attack but it
was hard to see a way back for his team.


Indeed, it took a fine diving save from Filan in the 51st minute
to keep out a low, hard 20-yard strike by the increasingly
influential Kuyt, the rebound ricocheting to safety, fortunately
for the visitors.


Nevertheless, there was the occasional reminder that 1-0 remained
a precarious lead. In the 60th minute, Leighton Baines's
rampaging run down the left ended with a cross which almost found
Camara and required a solid clearance from Sami Hyypia.


Any lingering worries Liverpool might have had were removed in
the 68th minute, however, when Kuyt claimed his second.
Gonzalez's long ball into the penalty area saw Craig Bellamy and
Riise link neatly to create an opening for the alert Kuyt who
curled an unerringly accurate finish beyond Filan's dive and into
the corner of the net.


Wigan substitute Caleb Folan forced Jose Reina into his first
save of the game in the 79th minute, a superb stop that kept out
his diving header from Josip Skoko's free-kick, but the remainder
of the contest was one-way traffic.


Dutchman Kuyt might have had a hat-trick but Filan snatched his
attempted lob at full-stretch, substitute Gerrard sent a shot
whistling past the post after fine approach play by Pennant,
Gonzalez's well-placed shot appeared to be creeping into the
corner of the goal until Filan made another diving save and Kuyt,
again, headed straight at the keeper.

