

The front-runners in Saturday's race to take over as head of
state from Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, who has served
two four-year terms, are Umaru Yar'Adua, Atiku Abubakar and
Muhammadu Buhari.


The following are brief profiles of the three, who are all
Muslims from the northern part of the country:


Umaru Yar'Adua, the 55-year-old governor of the strictly Muslim
state of Katsina who is Obasanjo's favourite, is widely tipped to
win despite questions about his health.


"Discreet", "modest" and "honest" are the words repeatedly used
to describe this politician, whose profile is diametrically
opposed to the average Nigerian political leader. His campaign
posters boast his "honesty, integrity, humility and courage".


In public life, the father of six has won a long track record of
financial prudence, public service and accountability, and is one
of the few governors recently absolved of corruption by the
country's anti-graft agency.


But many Nigerians remain concerned about his failing health.
Only weeks before the election, as campaigning for the election
was hotting up in early March, Yar'Adua had to be flown to
Germany for emergency medical treatment.


His older brother, Shehu Yar'Adua, was Obasanjo's deputy and
confidant when he was military head of state between 1976 and
1979. The outgoing president's support for the governor of
Katsina is seen as a pay-back for the loyalty of his older
brother.


Atiku Abubakar, 60, a former senior customs officer and
Obasanjo's deputy since his first election to office in May 1999,
is running for the presidency on behalf of the opposition Action
Congress (AC) after falling out severely with his onetime friend.


Atiku has earned himself the label of "rebel" politician in the
Nigerian press after surviving myriad intrigues and judiciary
somersaults in the lead up to the election.


Less than a week before the vote, the Supreme Court overturned a
decision by the electoral commission (INEC) to disqualify him
from the presidential race after corruption allegations.


Born in Jada in the northeastern state of Adamawa, Atiku was
orphaned at the tender age of eight, a fact that may have
prepared him for the turbulent political life that has followed.


A disciple of the late Shehu Yar'Adua, Abubakar is generally
regarded as a "grassroots" politician. It was thanks to his
influence in the ruling People's Democratic party (PDP) that
Obasanjo first won election as president in a 1999 poll.


He left the PDP for the AC last December after splitting with
Obasanjo and being thrown out of the party.


His political weight last year ensured that parliament blocked a
plan by Obasanjo to amend the constitution to enable him to bid
for a third term in office.


Senate president Ibrahim Mantu recently described him as "a
leader and a man of the people."


Nigeria's former military ruler, General Muhammadu Buhari, 64, is
running for the presidency under the banner of the opposition All
Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP).


In 2003, he was the major challenger against Obasanjo, then
running for a second term.


Buhari, a Muslim from northern Katsina State, came to power on
December 31, 1983 after a military coup ousting the corrupt and
ineffectual regime of civilian president Shehu Shagari.


He is remembered for his draconian attempts during his short two-
year rule to eradicate corruption and indiscipline, whatever the
human cost.


Under his administration, three Nigerians convicted of drug
trafficking were publicly executed. In all some 500 people,
mostly politicians and businessmen, were thrown in jail.


An oil minister back in the 1970s, Buhari after his 1985 ouster
spent some time in charge of the Petroleum Trust Fund, a
government vehicle for channelling petroleum money into
infrastructure projects.

