

Stuttgart's Brazilian striker Cacau scored both goals as they
inflicted a 2-0 defeat on Bayern Munich on Saturday which leaves
the German giants with a mountain to climb to qualify for a
Champions League place next season.


Cacau floored the guests with two goals in as many minutes which
opens a five- point gap between Stuttgart and Bayern to keep
Munich in fourth and outside the Champions League places with
four games left.


After Bayern defender Christian Lell put in a clearance kick near
his own goal, the ball hit Caucau with considerable force and
rebounded past Munich's goalkeeper Oliver Kahn for the opening
goal after 24 minutes.


The first goal was a freak, but the second one was a defensive
lapse which left veteran Kahn screaming with fury at his
defenders after they failed to deal with the Brazilian's threat.


A long ball found Stuttgart midfielder Sami Khedira down the left
flank and he whipped in a cross for Caucau to slip his markers
and bury his shot past the furious Kahn, who was later booked for
venting his frustrations.


Caucau was again allowed too much space with the goal at his
mercy four minutes later, but his shot went wide and Stuttgart
were rarely tested.


Schalke 04 went back to the top of the Bundesliga having lost
pole-position for less than 24 hours - thanks to Werder Bremen's
3-1 win over Alemannia Aachen on Friday night - with a 2-0
victory at Energie Cottbus.


Cottbus midfielder Timo Rost scored an own goal on the hour mark
and Brazilian Bordon scored with a header four minutes later to
make it 2-0.


Bayern Leverkusen took opponents Nuremberg's fifth-place - and
potential UEFA Cup spot - with a 2-0 win home win.


German international midfielder Bernd Schneider gave his side the
lead with a right-footed shot after 20 minutes and bagged his
second on 59 minutes to make the result safe.


Arminia Bielefeld clawed up one place to 15th and out of the
relegation zone with a superb 3-2 win over VfL Wolfsburg.


After scoring an early goal through defender Heiko Westermann
after eight minutes, Bielefeld fell behind as Wolfsburg's
Brazilian Marcelo Marcelinho scored after 16 minutes and they
took the lead when striker Isaac Boakye scored on 53 minutes.


But Bielefeld equalised through striker Christian Eigler on 72
minutes and Polish striker Artur Wichniarek sealed the win on 86
minutes.


And VfL Bochum moved up four places and the relative safety of
ninth spot thanks to their 3-0 win over Eintracht Frankfurt who
have slipped further down the table and hover just above the
relegation zone.


The Bundesliga's top-scorer Bochum's Greek striker Theofanis
Gekas put his side 1-0 up after 32 minutes before Cameron
midfielder Joel Epalle scored with two late goals.


Having started the day just one place off the relegation zone,
Borussia Dortmund - the 1997 European Champions - boosted their
chances of staying up with a 1-0 win at Hertha Berlin which took
them up three places to 12th.


Defender Markus Brzenska scored with a 49th minute header.


On Sunday, Hanover host bottom-club Borussia Moenchengladbach
while mid-table Hamburg play second-from-bottom Mainz 05.

