

Watford manager Adrian Boothroyd is already planning for a quick
return to the Premiership after his side's 1-1 draw against
Manchester City confirmed their relegation.


Boothroyd's side knew they needed a win at Vicarage Road to
retain any survival hopes, but Ben Foster's error that gifted a
goal to Darius Vassell early in the second half made their task
even harder and, although Tamas Priskin equalised, it was not
enough to keep them up.


The Hornets can have few complaints about their fate as they have
won just four Premiership matches, while this was the rock bottom
side's 20th defeat of the season.


It isn't all doom and gloom for Watford though. They were never
short of passion and held their own against clubs with far bigger
budgets and Boothroyd believes a promotion campaign next season
is a distinct possibility.


"Nobody has died," Boothroyd said. "It is not a time to be sad
and say 'if only'. It is a time to reflect, and make sure we
build on all the good things from this season.


"I have learned loads this season. I have had bouncebackability
and effort from my players, but it is not enough in this league.


"I think we can come straight back up, but it will be very tough
and we need to bring in one or two players.


"We will look to keep the nucleus of the squad together. No-one
will raid us and no-one will go.


"Next year, we will be expected to come straight back up, and
that is when the pressure arrives. But you have to aim for the
stars, and that is what I am about."


City boss Stuart Pearce admitted he is still growing into his
role and said: "This is my second full season as a manager, and
it has been a fantastic learning curve for me. We know where we
need to strengthen, and I hope we will do that in the summer."


Watford were quick to take the game to Pearce's side as they
faced their last opportunity to retain their top-flight status.


If Gavin Mahon had kept a cooler head he could have given the
Hornets an ideal start. City goalkeeper Andreas Isaksson weakly
punched Hameur Bouazza's corner to Mahon, but the midfielder
seemed to be startled by the chance and could only push his
header wide.


Marlon King was making his first start since October after
recovering from a knee injury, but the Watford striker was
understandably rusty early on and he headed wide after Bouazza
nodded on Foster's long clearance.


Bouazza has been Watford's main goal threat this season but the
Algeria striker was left red-faced when he blasted wastefully
over after being picked out by Douglas Rinaldi.


City, with little to play for, were content to stroll through the
first half but they almost snatched the lead in the 52nd minute.
China midfielder Sun Jihai worked a shooting opportunity but was
just off-target with his thudding effort.


Pearce's side didn't have to wait long for the breakthrough. Just
a minute later Foster, on-loan from Manchester United, miscued a
pass intended for Chris Powell to Vassell and the City striker
looped his shot back into the net from 25 yards.


Priskin came on for Steve Kabba and the Hungarian striker made an
instant impact in the 75th minute.


Rinaldi's pass gave Priskin a sight of goal and he steered his
strike past Isaksson to give Watford a glimmer of hope.


King almost postponed the last rites of Watford's season but he
was just unable to convert at the far post after Danny Shittu had
flicked on Bouazza's cross.

