

A weekend of funerals for victims of the deadliest US school
shooting spree opened Saturday after the family of shooter Cho
Seung-Hui apologized for the "excruciating grief" he caused.


Private and public services were scheduled around the country,
with a key requiem being held Sunday at the National Cathedral in
Washington.


Before noon Saturday, mourners in black and in the maroon-and-
gold university colors began to file into the Blacksburg Baptist
Church across the street from the campus ahead of the funeral of
Austin Michelle Cloyd, 18, who was in her first year in
international studies when she was cut down in Cho's shooting
spree Monday, which took the lives of 33, including Cho himself.


Just 30 minutes away in Roanoke, Virgina, Henry Lee, aka Henh Ly,
whose family fled communist Vietnam to immigrate to the United
States, was to be memorialized Saturday night. The 20-year-old
was in his first year studying computer science and French before
he died.


The wakes and memorials took place as familes and friends of the
27 students and five lecturers that the South Korea-born, US-
raised Cho killed learned of his family's public apology Friday
for his "unspeakable actions."


"On behalf of our family, we are so deeply sorry for the
devastation my brother has caused. No words can express our
sadness that 32 innocent people lost their lives this week in
such a terrible, senseless tragedy. We are heartbroken," read the
statement released by Cho's sister Cho Sun-Kyung.


"We have always been a close, peaceful and loving family. My
brother was quiet and reserved, yet struggled to fit in. We never
could have envisioned that he was capable of so much violence.


"He has made the world weep. We are living a nightmare," the
statement said.


The statement came as police continued to probe Cho's rampage,
undertaken early Monday with two handguns he bought despite
having been judged mentally ill two years before by police and
ordered to seek counseling.


Media reports Saturday said that should have prevented him from
obtaining the guns, even under Virginia's lenient state firearms
purchase rules.


According to the New York Times, federal law should have
prevented the sale of the guns to Cho, one from a local gun
dealer and another over the internet via a local pawnshop,
because two years ago a judge ruled that the moody loner
presented "an imminent danger to himself as a result of mental
illness."


ABC News reported that besides looking into the gun purchase,
police were also reported combing through his phone records to
see if he had any connection to any of the victims and whether he
had told anyone ahead of time of his rampage, which he had
planned for at least several weeks, according to his own written
and videotaped statements recovered after the crime.


According to the report, authorities were now seeking Cho's cell
phone records from Verizon Wireless in New Jersey.


"We can never fully understand what would cause a student to take
the lives of 32 innocent people," US President George W. Bush
said, announcing that he had ordered a review of the questions
raised by the shooting.


On the Virginia Tech campus Saturday, friends, family and many
former students flooded in to see the memorials at the campus
center to the dead.


Many also edged along yellow police tape that still surrounds the
two buildings where Cho unleashed his carnage, one a dormitory
where he shot two people and the other a classroom building
where, some two hours after the first killings, he started anew
and murdered 30 more.


The overriding concern was how many students would be ready to
start classes Monday when they reconvene after a week of
cancellations following the tragedy.


"I think it is important that we get back to class to talk about
it," said Miranda Martin, a second-year student from Atlanta and
one of the few who did not return home for the week.


"This is a time for getting back into our routines," said another
female student who did not want to be identified, though she was
concerned that the start of classes could be unsettling.


Mental health professionals said during the week that many
students and university employees might not even react to the
bloodshed for weeks.

