

Eritrean President Issaias Afeworki arrived in Sudan on Saturday
determined to kick-start talks to end the violence in Darfur, a
senior Sudanese official said.


The meetings will be part of "efforts toward a political
solution" in Darfur that includes those rebel groups that did not
sign a May 2006 peace deal with Khartoum, said Mustafa Osman, an
aide to President Omar al-Beshir.


Eritrea also mediated peace between Khartoum and eastern Sudan
rebels that ended 12 years of insurgency with an accord in
October, and Issaias is also expected to touch on that in his
talks.


Under the deal, the Sudanese government agreed to invest 600
million dollars in the impoverished east of the country over five
years.


Last month, Issaias and Beshir agreed to develop areas along
their common borders, which could help to defuse the long-
standing tensions between the two countries.


Regarding Darfur, Osman said on Thursday that "we have always
been ready to hold talks with any group, wherever and without
conditions, but it is the United States and Great Britain that
are putting a spanner in the works."


He was speaking after London and Washington on Wednesday
threatened Sudan with sanctions, accusing it of not doing enough
to end the conflict.


The 2006 peace deal was signed between Khartoum and just one of
three negotiating Darfur rebel factions, with the aim of ending
the conflict.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations.


Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say the death
toll is much higher.


Osman also said on Thursday that Chadian President Idriss Deby
Itno would visit Khartoum in the coming days, to smooth bilateral
relations which, nosedived after deadly border clashes between
forces of the neighbouring countries earlier this month.


Asmara sent an envoy to Tripoli last week to join talks between
Sudanese and Chadian officials aimed at easing tensions.


Chad has since apologised for the cross-border action of its
forces, explaining that it was not deliberate and that they were
in hot pursuit of rebels who had just attacked several Chadian
villages.


Sudan says it lost 17 of its troops in the attack and the
Chadians say 30 were killed overall.


Chad and Sudan accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Sudan's western Darfur region will spill
over into Chad and ignite a regional war.


"The normalisation of Sudanese-Chadian relations is an essential
element in the search for a solution in Darfur," Osman said on
Thursday.

