

As angry voters poured out of a school in the northern city of
Kano used as a polling booth in Nigeria's key presidential vote
Saturday, Mohammed Lawal shouted: "There's no security and
there're not enough ballots ... If this continues, there'll be
trouble!"


"This is larceny!. They are stealing our votes," said other
voters, surrounded by children in rags and a cloud of dust thrown
up by the voter stampede.


At around 1 pm, three hours after the vote for a new president,
parliament and senate was due to start, voters in the northern
reaches of Africa's most populous country all but boiled over due
to the chaos of the vote.


Problems were bound to crop up after the country's election
authorities had to reprint 65 million ballot papers at the last
minute and get them to 120,000 polling stations in a country
twice the size of France.


The papers, printed in South Africa, and rushed in to Nigeria on
the eve of the election, had to be reissued when one of the
leading contenders for the presidency was allowed to run by the
Supreme Court though he faces allegations of corruption.


Then last-minute printing errors forced the cancellation on
Saturday morning of part of the legislative and senatorial
elections in parts of the country.


Was this the case at the Fagge school polling booth in Kano?.
Nobody knew, and most of the women in veils and men in light-
coloured robes who had turned out to vote in the blazing heat of
the morning were not even aware there was a potential problem.


So when the local electoral commission (INEC) officer stood up to
say there were no ballots for the National Assembly vote, the
people lined up in queues went mad.


As fiery allegations of vote-rigging echoed across the arid
schoolyard, fears mounted of an impending explosion of violence
in a city routinely hit by such incidents, the last of which left
40 people dead, including 12 policemen, in religious clashes
early this week.


"If the election continues like this there could be violence
between members of different parties," added Mohamed Lawal,
recalling the underlying tensions in Kano, one of 12 Nigerian
states to have adopted sharia (strict Muslim) law in the last few
years.


Standing guard by the ballot boxes, policeman Zubwai Dabo tried
to calm people down. "You have two ballot papers," he said.


But the crowd just grumbled and said "No, no, no!"


Some of the voters agreed with Aminu Abubakar Hassan that
something rotten was going on. "Our local parliamentarian, who
hasn't done a thing in eight years, just doesn't want to step
down. He organised this with INEC so we couldn't vote."


As some disappointed voters headed for the street, a member of
the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP) warned there could be
trouble.


"People are beginning to be concerned. They think things could
degenerate because of these problems," said Alhaji Ousmane
Kawatchiri.


"You shouldn't stay here," a polling station supervisor told
journalists.


But not too far from Fagge school, a mere hundred-odd yards away
in the Sandamai Barewa district, voters were handed ballots for
the three elections being held concurrently -- highlighting the
election chaos across the West African nation.


Many of them, supporters of presidential candidate Mohammed
Buhari, running for the opposition All Nigeria Peoples Party
(ANPP), said they would brook "no fraud or pressure", and
complained of having to vote outside, in full view of others.


Outside Fagge school, sitting in the shade of the awning of his
butcher's stall, 60-something Alhadji Sabu Mohammed, took a more
philosophical view:


"Our job is to put the ballot in the box. The result, and what
they make of it, is something else. It might make me angry, but
what can I do?"

