

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas on Saturday called on the
European Union to lift a year-long suspension of direct aid to
his Hamas-led government, arguing that the lack of funds
threatens to encourage extremism.


"We call upon the European Union to lift the embargo imposed on
our people, whose continuation will only succeed in encouraging
extremism," Abbas told reporters after a meeting with Greek
Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis.


"The Palestinian people must be assisted to live a normal life,"
he said.


The European Union was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian
government until the Hamas militants came to power in March 2006.


The Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the EU, the United
States, the United Nations and Russia -- then suspended direct
aid to the Palestinian Authority.


"We recently formed a government of national unity, its agenda
has been announced and we believe that it corresponds to all
expectations," said Abbas, who arrived in Greece for a three-day
visit as part of a European tour designed to press for the
resumption of direct funding.


He added that conditions are ripe to "carry out the vision of US
President (George) Bush and the Quartet to create an independent
Palestinian state."


Abbas also invited Israel to respond to the "peace initiative"
extended by the Arab League last month.


"Fifty-seven Arab and Muslim states will be prepared to normalise
relations," he said.


The Arab initiative offers Israel full normalisation of relations
in return for its withdrawal from all Arab land captured in 1967,
the creation of a Palestinian state and -- in a key sticking
point for Israel -- the return of Palestinian refugees.


Bakoyannis said Greece favours an independent, democratic and
viable Palestinian state co-existing with Israel in safety.


"It is important to clarify the prospects to create such a state,
possibly with a new timetable," she said. "We feel that such a
development would send a clear political message."


The Greek government stands ready to support the Palestinian
people and the institutions of the Palestinian Authority, but on
the issue of direct funding "particular importance must be
attached to the declarations and actions of Authority members,"
Bakoyannis said.


Greece has traditionally pursued friendly relations with the
Palestinians, a policy spearheaded by late Socialist PM Andreas
Papandreou, who was a personal friend of late Palestinian leader
Yasser Arafat.


Abbas is scheduled to meet with Papandreou's son George, leader
of the opposition Socialist party on Sunday, and with Greek Prime
Minister Costas Karamanlis and President Carolos Papoulias on
Monday.

