

The Chinese government has given Zimbabwe a 58 million US dollars
financing facility that will be used to purchase farming
equipment, implements and tools, a cabinet minister said.


Under the deal, China's CAMC Engineering will supply various
agricultural equipment including 424 tractors, 65 dumper trucks,
40 heavy duty harrows and eight bulldozers.


"The total loan facility granted by the People's Republic of
China is 58 million US dollars," Joseph Made, minister for
agricultural engineering said during the official handover of
some of the equipment and tools.


The ceremony in the capital was also attended by President Robert
Mugabe and Jia Qinglin, chairman of the National Committee of the
Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CAMC).


In return for the help with its struggling agriculture, Zimbabwe
will deliver 110,000 tonnes of tobacco to China over two years,
Made said.


The two countries also signed three separate agreements related
to finance, agriculture and education.


Zimbabwe and China have relations dating back to Zimbabwe's 1970s
liberation struggle when Beijing provided arms and training to
the black nationalist movement fighting the white minority
government of Ian Smith.


The friendship was rekindled when Mugabe, shunned by former
friends in the West over the political crisis in his country,
adopted a "Look East" policy forging stronger ties with countries
like China, Malaysia, Indonesia and India.


Zimbabwe is reeling under social, political and economic crises
battling  four- digit inflation, sky-high unemployment and food
shortages.


Mugabe, who has been in power since his southern African country
gained independence from Britain in 1980, has meanwhile seen his
standing among many plummet from a liberation hero to a despot
who brooks no opposition.


The 83-year-old leader and his coterie face sanctions from the
West and critics who accuse him of stifling democracy and human
rights raised an outcry recently after government forces recently
arrested and assaulted opposition leaders.

