

Benni McCarthy grabbed a second-half equaliser for Blackburn to
extend Fulham's winless run to nine matches and ensure the
spectre of relegation looms larger for the west London club.


With clashes against Arsenal and Liverpool in their final three
matches, this result means the Cottagers were left just three
points clear of the drop zone -- and they only have themselves to
blame after squandering an early lead in front of a home crowd
that did its best to inspire them to victory.


On-loan striker Vincenzo Montella, the 'Little Airplane', ensured
a flying start after being drafted in instead of Heidar Helguson.


The Italian's 10th minute strike was a typical poacher's effort
but it owed much to Senegal midfielder Papa Bouba Diop's power in
the air.


Diop's huge leap allowed him to connect with a corner from Wales
midfielder Simon Davies and his header was bound for the net
before Montella stuck out a leg and touched the ball over the
line for his fifth goal since his January move from Roma.


Blackburn always looked like getting back into the match,
however, and Antti Niemi made the first of several crucial saves
in the 22nd minute when he flipped a long-range free-kick from
Morten Gamst Pedersen over the bar -- although his contact was
missed by referee Graham Poll, who awarded a goal-kick.


The home side had another let-off four minutes later when the
lively David Bentley whipped in a trademark cross from the right
that Liam Rosenior headed towards his own goal, forcing Niemi to
produce a dive to touch the ball onto the woodwork.


Jason Roberts was next to threaten, bursting clear of the Fulham
back four and beating Niemi, only to see Zat Knight get back and
clear the ball off the line.


Blackburn continued to press after the break and, after McCarthy
had rattled an effort against the crossbar, Niemi produced a fine
double save to deny Pedersen before the inevitable equaliser
arrived in the 61st minute.


Former Liverpool defender Stephen Warnock got clear of Rosenior
on the left and sent over a low cross that McCarthy finished off
from six yards out.


Fulham mounted a predictable late push for maximum points but
Blackburn were not unduly troubled by attacks lacking any real
cutting edge.


The draw ensured a first point for new manager Lawrie Sanchez
but, on this evidence, the Northern Ireland boss could well be
plying his trade in the Championship next season.

