

Citizens of France's overseas territories began casting their
votes Saturday, as the nation braced for round one of its most
hard-fought presidential elections in decades.


The last opinion polls issued before a midnight ban came into
effect showed that right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist
Segolene Royal are favourites to qualify in Sunday's first round
of the vote for the all-important run-off on May 6.


However the chance of a last-minute upset created an air of
tension, as both the centrist candidate Francois Bayrou and the
far-right veteran Jean-Marie Le Pen are within just a few points
of the leaders.


The first round of the last presidential election in April 2002
was a moment of high drama, when Le Pen unexpectedly made it into
the second round against Jacques Chirac.


France is choosing a successor to Chirac -- president since 1995
-- in an election that marks the changing of the political guard
at a time of intense national introspection and uncertainty.


All the main candidates come from a younger generation of
leaders, and all claim to represent a break from a discredited
past. All also say the country needs radical solutions to save it
from burgeoning public debt, rampant unemployment and seething
discontent in the high-immigration suburbs.


In Sarkozy and Royal, voters face a clear choice between an
avowedly right-wing programme based on the themes of work and
national identity and a left-winger promising to safeguard the
country's generous "social model".


Voting began a day early in France's overseas territories in the
Americas, with some 5,000 registered electors in the tiny islands
of Saint Pierre and Miquelon the first to turn out to the polls
on a cold but sunny Atlantic day.


Some one million citizens and expatriates are affected by a
recent rule change meant to prevent voters in the Americas --
which lie several hours behind France -- hearing early results of
the mainland election before they go to the polls.


Official campaigning stopped at midnight Friday when a ban came
into force preventing media from publishing opinion polls and
statements from the 12 candidates.


After a day meant for reflexion among family and friends, polling
booths open at 8:00 am (0600 GMT) Sunday morning and close 12
hours later, with normally reliable projections due out
immediately.


Only the two front-runners from the ballot qualify for the
decisive second round -- the system having been devised so that
presidents are elected with more than half the vote.


For the last month polls have consistently given a clear first
round lead to Sarkozy, a 52-year-old former interior minister who
heads the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


Royal, 53, has been in second place followed by Bayrou, 55, and
the 78 year-old Le Pen -- but the gap separating them has varied
widely and speculation has centred on who will join Sarkozy in
the second round.


Speaking late Friday in the northwestern city of Rouen, Bayrou --
who heads the small Union for French Democracy (UDF) -- repeated
his claim to be the only candidate capable of beating Sarkozy in
the run-off.


"This is very important, and very positive. It answers the
question that all those undecided voters are asking: what is the
most effective vote for ensuring things change," he said.


Royal, a former environment minister who wants to be France's
first woman president, would be under threat if large numbers of
left-wing voters switched tactically to Bayrou in order to keep
out Sarkozy, analysts said.


However she stands to gain from memories of the famous 2002 vote
when the Socialist Lionel Jospin was beaten by Le Pen. Failure to
qualify for a second time for round two would be disastrous for
the Socialist Party, and this may encourage left-wingers to stay
with Royal.


Also running in the election are three Trotskyites, a Communist,
a Green and anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The other two
are a hunters' rights candidate and the Catholic nationalist
Philippe de Villiers.

