

Billionaire space tourist Charles Simonyi landed back on Earth
Saturday, describing his 25-million-dollar trip to the
International Space Station (ISS) as "terrific."


The Soyuz capsule carrying Simonyi, 58, who spent nearly two
weeks aboard the ISS, and two crew members from the space
station, touched down as planned in the steppes of Kazakhstan, a
spokesman for Russia's space centre said.


"According to reports from the support teams ... all the
cosmonauts are well," the spokesman told AFP by telephone.


Television pictures showed the US-Hungarian Simonyi looking
relaxed as he lay on the grass of the steppe, his space helmet
off, enjoying the sunshine.


"It was terrific," he told the Vesti 24 channel in English. "It's
good to be back on Earth."


Simonyi and two ISS crew members, Mikhail Tyurin of Russia and
American Miguel Lopez-Alegria, had left the space station some
three hours earlier for the descent.


He had arrived at the ISS on April 9, with Russian cosmonauts
Oleg Kotov and Fyodor Yurchikhin who were relieving Tyurin and
Lopez-Alegria for a 190-day shift in orbit.


Simonyi, who left his native Hungary at the age of 17, made his
fortune at Microsoft, where he developed the Excel and Word
programs.


His time on the ISS was scheduled to include conducting
experiments, recording his impressions, and preparing a gourmet
dinner for his hosts -- he is the partner of US homemaking queen
Martha Stewart.


Simonyi was the fifth tourist to travel to the ISS, following
Dennis Tito (2001) and Greg Olsen (2005) of the United States,
South Africa's Mark Shuttleworth (2002) and an American of
Iranian origin, Anousheh Ansari (2006).


Space Adventures, the company that organises the trips, plans to
expand its offerings next year to include a 100-million-dollar
orbit of the moon and a 100,000-dollar budget option: five
minutes of sub-orbital space flight.


Eric Andersen, boss of Space Adventures, said when Simonyi took
off that the company had another client for a flight this year
who would go public within a few months.

