

The brother of the late princess Diana revealed Saturday that he
read his eulogy to her coffin before he delivered the emotional
speech at her 1997 funeral, watched the world over.


Earl Charles Spencer's address in September 1997 was outspoken
and provoked an unprecedented wave of applause through
Westminster Abbey in London.


He said Diana did not need the "Her Royal Highness" title, taken
away after her 1996 divorce from Prince Charles, and vowed that
her "blood family" would protect her children, Princes William
and Harry -- taken as an attack on the royals.


But Spencer wrote in The Guardian newspaper that he wrestled with
what to say and repeatedly practiced delivering the eulogy.


He said he initially struggled to write anything more than the
first two sentences.


The earl then read letters from sympathisers, which had two main
themes: disbelief and "revulsion at the gutter press," and
concerns that William and Harry would be "led away to an unhappy
upbringing by the cold, dry, hand of the establishment."


He decided to make his eulogy a "celebration of an extraordinary
life, lived to the full, which had been cut off cruelly, and
prematurely.


"I went to my study, powered up my computer, and wrote. Within
two hours I had completed every word, a stream of writing that
came more from my heart than my head."


"I had practised the speech to myself repeatedly over the days
preceding the funeral, trying to familiarise myself with the
passages that might lead me to break down, a very real
possibility.


"I read it to Diana's coffin, in the chapel at Saint James's
Palace, and at the conclusion heard a whisper that sounded like
satisfaction in that sad, sad, place."


He said delivering the speech was "a terrible ordeal. I was
emotionally in tatters."


The earl revealed how he felt "weak" as he walked to the lectern,
and "never heard" the applause as he finished.


"The last paragraphs, speaking to my nephews across their
mother's coffin, were extraordinarily difficult: I had to haul
each word out of the pit of my stomach, through a tightening,
hoarse, dry throat. I only just made it to the end."


Diana, her boyfriend Dodi Fayed and his chauffeur Henri Paul were
killed in a car crash in Paris on August 31, 1997.


Spencer said his only consolation was that at her funeral, "every
word I said was true."

