

Watford were relegated back to the Championship after being held
to a 1-1 draw against Manchester City on Saturday.


Adrian Boothroyd's side knew they needed a win at Vicarage Road
to retain any survival hopes, but Ben Foster's error that gifted
a goal to Darius Vassell early in the second half made their task
even harder and, although Tamas Priskin equalised, it was not
enough to keep them up.


The Hornets can have few complaints about their fate as they have
won just four Premiership matches, while this was the rock bottom
side's 20th defeat of the season.


It isn't all doom and gloom for Watford though. They were never
short of passion and held their own against clubs with far bigger
budgets so a promotion campaign next season is a distinct
possibility.


Watford were quick to take the game to Stuart Pearce's side as
they faced their last opportunity to retain their top-flight
status.


If Gavin Mahon had kept a cooler head he could have given the
Hornets an ideal start. City goalkeeper Andreas Isaksson weakly
punched Hameur Bouazza's corner to Mahon, but the midfielder
seemed to startled by the chance and could only push his header
wide.


Marlon King was making his first start since October after
recovering from a knee injury, but the Watford striker was
understandably rusty early on and he headed wide after Bouazza
nodded on Foster's long clearance.


Isaksson looked far from convincing and Watford, scenting a
weakness, bombarded the penalty area. The Swede nearly gifted
Boothroyd's men a goal when he pushed King's cross towards Mahon,
but Nedum Onuoha cleared the danger.


Bouazza has been Watford's main goal threat this season but the
Algeria striker was left red-faced when he blasted wastefully
over being picked out by Douglas Rinaldi.


City, with little to play for, were content to stroll through the
first half but they almost snatched the lead in the 52nd minute.
China midfielder Sun Jihai worked a shooting opportunity, but was
just off-target with his thudding effort.


Pearce's side didn't have to wait long for the breakthrough. Just
a minute later Foster, on-loan from Manchester United, miscued a
pass intended for Chris Powell to Vassell and the City striker
looped his shot back into the net from 25 yards.


Priskin came on for Steve Kabba and the Hungarian striker made an
instant impact in the 75th minute.


Rinaldi's pass gave Priskin a sight of goal and he steered his
strike past Isaksson to give Watford a glimmer of hope.


King almost postponed the last rites of Watford's season but he
was just unable to convert at the far post after Danny Shittu had
flicked on Bouazza's cross.

