

The United States hopes to step up military relations with
Vietnam and is planning the sale of non-lethal defence equipment
to its former enemy, a visiting senior Pentagon official said
Friday.


Washington had invited Hanoi to send military observers to
regional naval exercises and planned to soon sell it equipment
including helicopter parts and coastal patrol craft, said
Brigadier General John Toolan.


"We're working slowly towards building a relationship where we
can trade and sell to them equipment and technology that they
need," he said, adding that this could eventually include lethal
military hardware.


The two sides also hoped to start in coming months a joint search
for the remains of US wartime pilots shot down over the South
China Sea, said Toolan, Asia Pacific principal director in the
Office of the Secretary of Defence.


A US naval research vessel would provide oceanographic and
meteorological data in the search for "400-odd pilots that have
been shot down during the Vietnam War and are in the ocean,"
Toolan told a Hanoi media briefing.


The United States also hoped to help Vietnam with its search and
rescue capabilities and step up an ongoing language training
programme, he said.


Toolan said the effort to strengthen defence ties with Vietnam
was not aimed against China, which he said Washington sought to
engage, not contain.


But he conceded that Hanoi would always consider its ties with
Beijing.


"They share a border with China, so I don't think they're really
going to make any decisions without taking into consideration
what's the impact on China," he said, speaking during a four-day
visit to communist Vietnam.


Toolan said the United States was encouraging Vietnam "to assume
a larger role" in regional security groupings including the ASEAN
Regional Forum.


With its long coastline, Vietnam could eventually become a
"tremendous contributor" to counter-terrorism efforts, providing
surveillance and maritime interdiction of vessels thought to
carry weapons of mass destruction, he said.

