

The troubled Polish Football Association (PZPN) on Friday imposed
a one-month match ban on corruption-tainted first division club
Arka Gdynia.


Several top club officials have been accused of involvement in
the two-year-old match-fixing scandal while more than 60 people
connected to Polish football have been arrested, including
several referees and a member of the PZPN leadership.


PZPN disciplinary head Michal Tomczak was quoted by the PAP news
agency as saying: "There is no doubt about the accusations
weighing against them. I read the prosecutor's file and was
disgusted by what I saw.


"A club of this sort has no place in the first division. These
are major accusations, and the club officials are refusing to co-
operate with the ongoing investigation.


"They deny everyting, even when prosecutors have documentary
evidence. They're behaving like nothing has happened, as if there
was no corruption at all."


The case involving the Baltic port city's club is
"unprecedented", Tomczak added.


Arka Gdynia, who are currently 10th in the 16-club Polish first
division, will be suspended from all league and cup matches with
immediate effect, Tomczak announced.


It was not immediately clear how the ban would affect the league
standings of the clubs Arka Gdynia had been scheduled to play
over the coming weeks.


The scandal also sparked a fight between the conservative Polish
government and the world and European football governing bodies
FIFA and UEFA.


Poland's ruling Law and Justice party came to power on an anti-
corruption platform in 2005, and the PZPN was swept up by the
nationwide clean up drive in January.


Polish Sports Minister Tomasz Lipiec suspended the PZPN
leadership on January 19, and appointed a commissioner to run the
association.


But FIFA and UEFA protested that the move flew in the face of the
sporting world's rules against government interference and
threatened to impose sanctions on Poland -- which usually
involves banning the national team and clubs from international
competition.


Lipiec later backed down and reinstated the former PZPN board
pending the election of a new leadership.

