

England captain Michael Vaughan said the murder of Pakistan coach
Bob Woolmer was horrific but insisted that the World Cup must go
on.


The announcement on Thursday that Woolmer had been strangled to
death, a day after Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup,
has stunned the cricket world and led the likes of former South
Africa fast bowler Allan Donald to say that the sport's showpiece
tournament should now be called off.


But Vaughan insists the Caribbean show must continue.


"It's a horrific time for world cricket. We all knew what a good
bloke Bob was," said Vaughan.


"Whatever goes on the field, this incident is a lot bigger
because someones's life has been taken away.


"But I think the World Cup has to go on, the game has to go on."


Responding to Donald's calls for the tournament to be called off,
Vaughan said: "I can understand his emotion and his thoughts
there but the best thing for this game is to show it in a great
light."


The England captain admitted his entire squad was stunned by the
news.


"We're all in complete shock," said Vaughan.


"The inquiry has been going on for a few days and the
announcement last night came as a huge shock to all the team.


"Our thoughts are with Bob's family. But while there is a murder
inquiry going on, and a police investigation, it's very difficult
to comment."


England have a Group C game against Kenya here Saturday, with the
winners assured of a place the Super Eight, second phase of the
World Cup.


"Our focus now is to make sure we prepare for tomorrow's game and
pass on our condolences to Bob's family. It must be a horrific
experience which they've gone through over the last five days,"
Vaughan said.


"Preparation yesterday (Thursday), you could sense there was
something a little bit wrong because of what's gone on but we do
have to focus today (Friday) and make sure we produce a good
performance tomorrow (Saturday).


"The World Cup must go on, we must play cricket. This great game
has to be seen in a great light."


With Woolmer being found dead in his hotel room in Jamaica,
attention has now focused on the security arrangements for
competing teams at the World Cup.


But Vaughan said he was happy with the security surrounding
England.


"We've always been delighted with the security which we have
around our team. We have a real good security officer, who has
been helped by the St Lucian government and we don't feel in any
threat at all around the places that we've been.


"We understand that with incidents like this security will be
upped but we've always been delighted with the way we've been
looked after and the hospitality we've received everywhere we've
gone.


"We haven't felt threatened at all."

