

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will unveil Sunday a declaration
aimed at restoring public confidence in the future of the
European Union, as it marks the 50th birthday of its founding
treaty.


The "Berlin Declaration", prepared by EU representatives behind
closed doors, will be less than three pages long and written in
language easily understood by European citizens.


It is divided into sections praising the EU's achievements,
noting its common values and its common policies, and looking to
the future, amid the institutional chaos caused by the failure of
the planned constitution.


It will be signed in the German capital by Merkel, whose country
currently holds the rotating EU presidency, European Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso and European Parliament President
Hans-Gert Poettering, but not the leaders of the 27 EU member
states.


A German presidency official said the main obstacle holding up
the document was its translation into the 23 official EU
languages.


Excerpts from an almost finalised French-language draft of the
declaration seen by AFP Friday shows what the document -- which
starts with "We the citizens of the European Union ..." will
contain.


ACHIEVEMENTS


Among the EU's successes since the signing of the Treaty of Rome
on March 25, 1957, that will be noted are peace, prosperity and
unity in Europe. It will also highlight the single market, the
euro common currency, and open borders.


VALUES


A German presidency official said it will contain a "passage full
of emotion about values... which must underpin all our actions."
It will mention equality between states, tolerance, solidarity
and justice. Human rights and equal opportunity will also figure.


CHALLENGES


These will include confronting globalisation and preserving
Europe's "social model." Energy policy, climate change and the
fight against organised crime, as well as "Europe's role in the
world" are also likely to figure.


CONSTITUTION


The EU's moribund constitution will not be explicitly mentioned,
but the text will refer to the need for the bloc to find a
settlement to its institutional woes before 2009.


"We are united in the common goal of renewing, in time for the
2009 European Parliamentary elections, the common foundation on
which the European Union is built," said an early draft, which is
subject to change.


ENLARGEMENT


The draft makes no clear reference to enlargement -- a process
that countries like France and the Netherlands see as diluting
Europe's identity, while Britain and Poland see it as an
opportunity to export democracy and prosperity. The foreign
minister of Turkey, a candidate for EU membership, has voiced
regret that none of the aspiring members have been invited to
Berlin.


RELIGION


Officials have said that no mention of religion will figure in
the declaration, despite pressure to have a reference to Europe's
"Judeo-Christian roots" made in it.

