

Tim Henman has stepped out of Davis Cup retirment and straight
into the Great Brtain squad to face the Netherlands in a Euro-
African Zone I tie in Birmingham from April 6-8.


Henman lines up alongside British number one Andy Murray, Greg
Rusedski, Jamie Murray, Jamie Baker and Richard Bloomfield in the
six-man squad named by captain John Lloyd.


The 32-year-old Henman last played in the competition against
Austria in Portschach in 2004.


But he returns to a Great Britain side to complete an impressive
looking line-up that includes fellow former top-10 player
Rusedski and current world number 12 Murray.


"I am confident we have one of the strongest teams in years for
this tie against the Netherlands," said Lloyd.


"It is vital for us to win if we are to work our way back into
the World Group. I am really excited about the balance of the
team with huge professional experience and some really exciting
young talent."


Henman, whose original retirement announcement was borne out of
his desire for a more comfortable schedule in the twilight of his
career, was persuaded to return after a number of meetings with
Lloyd.


After years of carrying the burden of the team's hopes almost
single-handedly, he is also known to be excited by the prospect
of handing over some of that responsibility to Murray.


Meanwhile Murray's older brother Jamie has been rewarded for his
magnificent doubles form with his first call-up.


The 21-year-old has risen to a doubles world ranking of 43 after
winning two ATP tour titles this season. Norwich 23-year-old
Bloomfield has climbed to 183 in the singles rankings and earned
his first selection on the back of some impressive performances
on the Challenger circuit so far this year.


Lloyd said: "We have got a bit of a fear factor going on now with
our squad and particularly if we get home matches, bring anybody
on. If our team is fit and ready to play there are not many teams
who would like to play us.


"When I took the job last year we had an exceptional singles
player in Andy Murray who was rising fast, Greg Rusedski who had
not won too many matches and had injury problems, and other
players who were not quite ready.


"But things have turned round quickly. Andy has continued to play
exceptionally and taken another step to being an established,
world-class player, and we were very fortunate to get Tim back
into the team."


Lloyd's cause is boosted enormously by the emergence of the elder
Murray, who has beaten even the most optimistic of forecasts with
his doubles performances, including back-to-back titles on the
main ATP Tour circuit this year.


Lloyd added: "Jamie has taken the doubles by storm and he has
come up faster than anybody anticipated. He has had an
exceptional year and he has really gone on a streak with his
American partner (Eric Butorac)."

