

South African manager Ghoolam Rajah said Friday his team did not
agree with former fast bowler Alan Donald's view that the World
Cup should be called off following the murder of coach Bob
Woolmer.


"He (Donald) does not speak for the team," said Rajah after his
team's practice ahead of their Saturday's clash against
Australia.


"I think obviously the players are sad over the tragic events and
the cause of Bob's death does affect the team, but they want to
continue on," said Rajah.


The Jamaican police on Thursday announced Pakistan coach Woolmer
had been strangled to death after the autopsy report on the 58
-year-old initially proved inconclusive. Woolmer was found
unconscious in his hotel room in Jamaica on Sunday.


The International Cricket Council termed the murder as tragic but
announced that the tournament would carry on.


Donald, however, believed the World Cup should be stopped after
the death of Woolmer, who coach South Africa from 1994 to 1999.


Rajah refused to comment on speculation that Woolmer's death was
linked to match-fixing mafia.


"Certainly not, it's pure speculation. A lot of people with their
own little theories. I respect the law and I'm sure they'll get
to the bottom of it. But I'm not prepared to speculate."


South African cricket was also embroiled in match-fixing and
betting after former captain Hansie Cronje admitted to taking
money from bookmakers in 2000. His conversation with an Indian
bookie was also tapped by Indian police during team's tour in
2000.


Cronje was subsequently banned for life after a match-fixing
inquiry in South Africa before he died in a plane crash in 2002.


Rajah said his team was assured of beefed-up security after the
Jamaican episode.


"We must learn lessons if there are some, we have been assured of
the beef-up in security and it can be felt around us," said
Rajah.


Fit-again all-rounder Andrew Symonds said the Australian team
sent their condolences to Woolmer's family.


"The team is obviously sending our heartfelt regrets to his
family. It's an absolutely shocking tragedy and hopefully they
can get to the bottom of it and find the killer. And his family
can put it to bed, hopefully, by finding who was responsible."


Symonds said Woolmer would have wanted the World Cup to go on.


"Bob, being a cricket man, I would think that he wouldn't want it
to stop. I think he would probably want the games to roll on and
the competition to end."


Symonds said Australian team did not have any security problems.


"We've got no problem. It's just one of those things. You can
take life for granted sometimes and then something like this
happens and all of a sudden and we're taking extra-special
measures. I don't know what to say.


"It's just a real shocker. It's something you hope you never see
again," said the 31-year-old all-rounder, who was cleared to play
against South Africa on Saturday.

