

A cargo plane with 11 people aboard which crashed north of
Mogadishu on Friday was hit by a rocket, Somali government
spokesman Hussein Mohamed Muhamoud told AFP.


"Three rockets were fired at the plane and one of them hit the
plane. This is an act that will not be accepted by the Somali
people and government," Muhamoud said.


He was unable to say if there were any casualties.


"The government forces have surrounded the area" some 15
kilometres (10 miles) north of the airport, he said.


"They have cordoned off the area. The investigations are going on
but meanwhile we do not know if anybody is alive or dead,"
Muhamoud said, adding that rescue operations were difficult
because it was dark.


The plane was a Belarussian Ilyushin cargo plane chartered by the
African Union to bring engineers and equipment to Mogadishu to
repair another, an Ilyushin-76, also chartered by the AU, which
caught fire on landing, with no casualties, two weeks ago.


"Eleven people were on board, including technicians and crew. We
cannot confirm if anyone has survived," said Captain Paddy
Ankunda, spokesman for AU peacekeepers in the Somali capital.


"The plane was going to Nairobi, taking back some technicians and
engineers who had come to repair the other plane," Ankunda said.


He said that there had been no Ugandan peacekeeping soldiers
aboard and that it was unclear if the plane had been attacked.


A Mogadishu resident said earlier that a plane had crashed in the
capital's northern Karan neigbourhood.


"We have a seen a huge plane with smoke coming out of it. The
plane was going down. We heard an explosion before we saw the
smoke, but we are not sure if the plane was gunned down," said
Mohamed Haji, a resident of Karan.


Belarus's transport ministry confirmed last week that the first
Ilyushin plane had been hit by a rocket and was seriously damaged
while landing in the Somali capital.


Islamist fighters opposed to the Ethiopian-backed Somali
government and to African Union peacekeepers being brought into
the country claimed responsibility for the attack.

