

The world should invest 10 billion dollars annually to halve
deforestation in the fight against global warming, Nicholas
Stern, the author of a key climate change report, said Friday.


Forest clearance for farming or urban development released large
amounts of the greenhouses gases blamed for climate change, he
told reporters at a meeting in Indonesia's capital, Jakarta.


"The world has to work together to provide a strong fund to cut
deforestation in Indonesia, Brazil and other countries," he said.


In a landmark report commissioned by the British government,
Stern warned last year that climate change could bring economic
disaster on the scale of the world wars and the 1930s' Great
Depression unless urgent action was taken.


"The cost of action, strong and urgent action, will be very much
less than the cost of inaction," he said in Jakarta.


"If we do nothing, if we go on with business as usual, we will
eventually derail growth and development."


Rich nations had a powerful interest in helping to preserve
forest cover because they would also be affected by global
warming, he said.


"The money is not charity -- it's investing in a future of which
they will be the big beneficiaries," said Stern, who is due to
visit Indonesia's Sumatra island to see the problem of
deforestation close up.


Experts say Indonesia has about two percent of the world's forest
area but is losing large amounts of it annually, which releases
carbon dioxide and makes the country one of the world's largest
greenhouse gases polluters.


The 10 billion dollar global fund could be used to provide
compensation to discourage forest clearance, Mike Harrison, an
expert from Britain's Department for International Development,
told AFP.


The money could also be given to national parks to conserve
forests and some could be used to fund forest concessions, he
said.


The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation said this month that
forests were expanding in several regions of the world, but that
each day saw a net loss equivalent to an area twice the size of
Paris.


Global forest covers about 30 percent of the world's land area.
From 1990 to 2005, the world lost three percent of its total
forest area, according to the organisation.


Ten countries account for 80 percent of the world's primary
forests, of which Indonesia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Brazil
saw the highest losses in the five years from 2000 to 2005, it
said.


The IPCC, the United Nations' paramount scientific authority on
global warming, has predicted the Earth's surface temperatures
will rise between 1.8 and 4.0 degrees Celsius (3.2 and 7.2
degrees Fahrenheit) by 2100.

