

Taliban militants attacked a convoy delivering supplies to
foreign troops in southern Afghanistan Friday, killing 17 Afghan
security guards and drivers, their commander said.


Another four guards were missing in the ambush by about 100
Taliban in southern province of Kandahar, the commander of the
pro-government militia that had been guarding the convoy said.


"Fifteen security guards and two truck drivers were killed in the
attack," commander Abdul Manan said.


"Four guards are missing. Five trucks and one pick-up truck were
burned to ashes. Taliban have taken one of the pick-up trucks,"
he said.


Police could not give AFP information about the ambush.


However the Afghan Islamic Press news agency said Kandahar police
general Asmatullah Alizai confirmed the incident, although he
said 10 guards and four drivers were killed.


There are regular attacks on convoys supplying foreign military
bases in Afghanistan, but Friday's was believed to be the
deadliest.


The convoy was attacked on the highway between Kabul and the main
city in the south, Kandahar, en route to a military base in Zabul
province.


On Wednesday the decapitated body of an Afghan truck driver
supplying NATO forces was found dumped at the side of the same
highway in Zabul, not far from the scene of Friday's attack.


The head was placed on the body, officials said.


Militants last weekend cut off the noses and ears of three
drivers supplying US military bases in the mountainous eastern
province of Nuristan. Police blamed the Taliban.


There are several foreign and Afghan groups providing security to
private companies in Afghanistan, including those that deliver
logistics to military bases and construction projects.


Militants with the extremist Taliban movement, which was toppled
from power in late 2001 in a US-led offensive, target these
security guards and other people working for the government and
its allies.


The Taliban-led insurgency was its bloodiest last year, leaving
more than 4,000 people dead -- most of them rebels.


The Al-Qaeda-linked militants have vowed a new wave of violence
this year and have already carried out a series of suicide
attacks.


The most serious was on February 27 and killed more than 20
people, including four foreigners, outside a US military base
near the capital as US Vice President Dick Cheney was visiting.


The foreign and Afghan security forces say however they are
better able to confront the militants this year.


Afghan forces killed 69 in an operation in the southern province
of Helmand on Thursday, the defence ministry said Friday. Seven
police were also killed.


The number of foreign troops has risen to around 50,000 with NATO
appeals for more soldiers and equipment seeing some extra pledges
of support.

