

Former Iranian president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani's son,
whose name emerged on Friday in a bribery probe of French Total,
was implicated in an earlier corruption case involving a
Norwegian oil company.


In 2004, the Norwegian public oil giant Statoil was slapped with
a fine of 20 million kroner (at the time worth 2.4 million euros,
2.97 million dollars) for having engaged in attempted corruption
in an Iranian oil deal.


At the heart of the matter was a 15.2-million-dollar (11.4
-million-euro) Statoil contract signed in June 2002 with a
London-based consultancy Horton Investments.


Norwegian investigators suspected that the consultancy was a
front company and the contract was in fact a bribe to former
Iranian president Rafsanjani's son and head of Iranian oil group
NIOC Mehdi Hashemi Rafsanjani aimed at facilitating Statoil's
access to Iranian oil reserves.


Mehdi Hashemi's name resurfaced on Friday in an investigation of
French oil giant Total's chief executive Christophe de Margerie,
who is facing corruption charges over alleged bribes for an
Iranian gas contract in 1997.


Sources close to the matter indicated that Mehdi Hashemi's
secretary, a Swiss resident who allegedly holds a bank account in
Switzerland containing suspect funds, was believed to be the
middleman in that case.


Investigators are interested in two Swiss accounts into which
payments of nearly 100 million Swiss francs (60 million euros, 80
million dollars) were paid.


Margerie, who rose to Total's top position last month, was the
group's Middle East director when the 1997 contract was signed.


Statoil, which has always rejected the corruption charges,
terminated its contract with Horton Investments in September 2003
after Norwegian media got wind of the affair.


Norway's Economic Crime Unit however maintained that the company
ought to have terminated the deal in July that year, when a new
Norwegian anti-corruption law entered into force.


By accepting to pay the fine, as well as a 21-million-dollar
penalty to US authorities, Statoil dodged any legal repercussions
in Norway and the United States.


There was no mention of Total in the Norwegian case, which cost
Statoil's chief executive at the time, Olav Fjell, his job. He
was later cleared of all charges.

