

One of six men accused of plotting failed bomb attacks in London
allegedly collaborated with two of the suicide bombers who killed
52 people in the capital two years ago, a court heard Friday.


Muktar Said Ibrahim, 29, on trial over alleged involvement in
failed attacks in London on July 21, 2005, spent two months in
Pakistan at the same time as two of the four bombers who caused
carnage two weeks earlier, it was claimed.


The allegation -- the first time the two incidents have been
linked -- came from Stephen Kamlish, the lawyer representing one
of Ibrahim's co-defendants, 33 -year-old Manfo Kwaku Asiedu.


He made the claim earlier in the trial but it can only be
reported now after reporting restrictions were lifted by the
judge.


Kamlish said he had seen documentary evidence proving that
Ibrahim was in Pakistan at the same time as Mohammed Sidique Khan
and Shehzad Tanweer.


Khan, Tanweer and two other men all died when they detonated
rucksack bombs on three London Underground trains and a bus at
rush hour on July 7, 2005 in what was the worst such attack on
British soil.


Three men were arrested Thursday and are currently being
questioned by British police on suspicion of helping the group.


Until now, there had been no suggestion of a connection between
the July 7 atrocities and the alleged failed attacks on July 21.


Kamlish asked Ibrahim earlier in the trial, which started in
January: "Has there been any discussion between you and them on
how to make effective bombs to start a bombing campaign in this
country, the first of which was 7/7, the second of which was
going to be 21/7?"


But Ibrahim replied: "No."


The claim emerged after Asiedu broke ranks with his five co-
defendants Thursday to allege that Ibrahim intended the July 21
attacks to be a "copy-cat" of the July 7 ones, only "bigger and
better."


Asiedu is now sitting separately from the other defendants in
court for his own protection.


Ibrahim and Asiedu are on trial at London's Woolwich Crown Court
alongside Ramzi Mohammed, 25, Hussain Osman, 28, Yassin Omar, 26,
and Adel Yahya, 24, all originally from Africa.


They deny charges of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause
explosions likely to endanger life.

