

The family of an Afghan captured by Talian with an Italian
journalist, who was freed this week, on Friday circulated a video
of the kidnapped man in an appeal for help to win his release.


Ajmal Naqshbandi, captured March 4, had called his father on
Thursday to say his life was in danger and he was still with the
Taliban, his brother Munir told AFP. The call was cut before he
had finished talking, he said.


Naqshbandi was seized in Helmand province with Italian Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, freed Monday in exchange for five Taliban
prisoners, and an Afghan driver who was beheaded by his captors.


Munir Naqshbandi circulated among the Afghan and international
media Friday a video clip of his 25-year-old brother calling for
help and said he hoped the pictures would spur efforts to win his
freedom.


Ajmal gives the date as March 12, a week before Mastrogiacomo was
freed and days before driver Sayed Agha was decapitated.


The family received the video on Thursday from an Italian-run
hospital in the Helmand capital Lashkar Gah which handled the
negotiations for Mastrogiacomo's release, Munir said.


Munir also produced press passes to prove that Ajmal was a
freelance journalist and not a translator as reported, saying
this might persuade the media and Afghan and Italian government
to take his case more seriously.


In the clip, Ajmal says he had "illegally entered a Taliban
area."


"We are in hands of Taliban now, we are fine up to now. I request
from the journalists' association and the government to try their
best so we can be released."


He tells his mother he is "fine". Of his captors, he says, "they
are all our compatriots, they are Muslims and we are in hands of
Islam."


"Don't worry, Inshahla (God willing), we are going to be freed
soon and I will come."


Munir said the Afghan and Italian governments should help his
brother as they had the La Repubblica correspondent.


"It is not fair, they should have tried to release both of them
(Ajmal and Mastrogiacomo)," he told AFP.


"I am happy Daniele is free. But now he and the Afghan and the
Italian government must work for the release of my brother. He
was only captured because he was with Daniele," he said.


Italy has fended off criticism over negotiations for the release
of Mastrogiacomo, with NATO allies saying hostage-taking in
Afghanistan was now more likely, after the Italian was swapped
for the five Taliban prisoners.

