

The United States on Friday issued visas for Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his delegation ahead of a vote in the UN
Security Council, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


The Iranian leader has asked to address the Council as it
prepares for a vote expected on Saturday on a resolution imposing
new sanctions on Tehran for refusing to rein in its suspect
nuclear program.


"The passports with the visas with them have been delivered,"
McCormack said, adding they were delivered at 10:00 am (0900 GMT)
in Bern, Switzerland.


Some of the requests for visas from the Iranian delegation were
still being examined and had not yet been granted, he added.


Iran and the United States have not held diplomatic ties for the
past 27 years, and Switzerland takes care of US interests in
Iran, with Iranian interests in the US dealt with by Pakistan.


McCormack said Ahmadinejad now had his visa.


"I don't know if the Iranian representative has actually handed
it to him, but he has his visa," he said.


"He is, by all accounts, fully prepared to be able to come to the
UN and address the Security Council if he chooses to do so


"He and his diplomatic and security contingent have their visas.
There was aircrew visas and we are currently working on
processing all of those."


Iran has alleged that the US was dragging its feet on the
president's visa.


Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi on Friday told the
state news agency IRNA that the Americans were "creating
problems."


"Despite the official processing and American officials' promises
in the media, the president's and his delegation's visas have not
been issued up to this moment," he alleged.


But McCormack said Iran had initially requested 39 visas -- 13
diplomatic visas, and another 26 for security staff.


Then, Iran made another request for 33 crew members.


"It was one of these incidents when they failed to fill out all
the forms. But our folks in Bern are working as quickly as they
can to make sure that those visas get issued wiin the confines of
our host country obligations," McCormack said.

