

Britain marks the 200th anniversary of the abolition of slavery
this weekend with the government proposing an annual
commemoration day -- but still refusing to make a full apology.


In contrast the Anglican church has made an unreserved mea culpa,
and on Saturday Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams will lead
hundreds of people on a "Walk of Witness" marking the
bicentenary.


"Some have said they see no need for the apology made last year
by the General Synod for the role the Church played in the slave
trade," said Williams.


"But when we acknowledge historic injustices inflicted in the
name of the Church, this is a vital part of our life as members
of the body of Christ," he wrote in a foreword to the programme
for the walk.


The walk includes the culmination of the March of the
Abolitionists -- a group of walkers who have worn yokes and
chains during a 250-mile journey beginning in the northeastern
city of Hull.


British merchants are believed to have transported nearly three
million black Africans across the Atlantic between 1700 and the
early 19th century.


Overall, some 21 million black Africans were transported by
Europeans in the Atlantic slave trade from 1450 until 1850,
according to historians. British merchants were the biggest
participants, followed by the French and Dutch.


The 1833 Slavery Abolition Act outlawed slavery itself throughout
the British Empire. However, slaves did not gain their final
freedom until 1838.


But despite voicing its regret, the British government has never
made a full, formal apology for its role in the trade.


Earlier this month British Prime Minister Tony Blair reiterated
that he was sorry for Britain's role in the slave trade
Wednesday, labelling it "entirely unacceptable."


On the eve of the anniversary, Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott said Britain is to hold an annual commemoration day to
remember its role in the slave trade, as well as the fight to end
it.


He told The Guardian daily that he expected the day would be
sometime in June and said it could provide an opportunity for the
country to consider how it could help modern day Africa.


Events are being planned to mark the bicentenary of the Abolition
of the Slave Trade Act here. It was passed on March 25, 1807,
imposing a 100-pound fine for every slave found aboard a British
ship.


"Like the Holocaust, we are learning to talk about the slave
trade more openly and more honestly," Prescott told the daily.


"There is a sense of shock and horror at what went on in our
history, and the sheer brutality of it ... We need to get the
proper history told, including the good, the bad and the dreadful
...


"The legacy of this 200th anniversary should be a permanent date
when we ask whether there is more we could do, so that every
year, like (the) Holocaust, we remind people of the horrors."

