

Pakistan's cricket coach Bob Woolmer probably knew the killer who
strangled him in his hotel room at the World Cup, Jamaican police
said Friday, in a crime that sparked rumours of involvement by
match-fixing gangs.


"Clearly he let somebody into his hotel room and it may be that
he knew who that person was," Jamaica's deputy police
commissioner Mark Shields told BBC radio in London.


"It seems difficult to believe at this stage it was a complete
stranger."


Former England international Woolmer, 58, was found in his room
Sunday and declared dead in hospital, a day after Pakistan's
shock defeat to minnows Ireland saw the 1992 World Cup winners
crash out of this year's competition.


Shields said that police were probing video recordings from the
hotel's closed- circuit television cameras but had yet to find
anything suspicious. He dismissed rumours that arrests had been
made.


Pakistan's players made statements to police and gave DNA samples
and fingerprints. Pakistan said it was rushing a senior diplomat
from Washington to Jamaica to liaise with the police there.


Jamaican police spokesman Karl Angell told a news conference
Thursday that Woolmer had been the victim of foul play.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


Shields suggested more than one person may have been involved and
said there were no signs of forced entry to Woolmer's room.


"Bob was a large man and therefore it would have taken some
significant force to subdue him and cause strangulation, but we
do not know at this stage how many people were in the room," he
said.


Shockwaves from the killing reverberated through international
cricket but organisers insisted the showpiece tournament must go
on.


"It's a horrific time for world cricket," said England captain
Michael Vaughan.


International Cricket Council chief executive Malcolm Speed
expressed "a profound sense of shock at the news that his death
is being treated as murder," but said the game of cricket "cannot
be put off by a cowardly criminal act."


"The best way to do that is for the teams that remain in the
tournament to play out a great World Cup, something that will
help put the smile back on the face of our great sport," he said
in a statement.


There was speculation that the killing was carried out by
criminals keen to avoid exposure in claims of match-fixing which
may have arisen in a book Woolmer was planning to write.


Pakistan team spokesman Pervez Mir dismissed such suggestions.


"The players as far as I know have not spoken about any match-
fixing or any match-fixing incident because there is no question
of that," he told British broadcaster Sky News.


Woolmer was coach of South Africa when its former captain Hansie
Cronje was bought off by bookmakers in 1996, but was never
alleged to have been involved himself.


In cricket-obsessed Pakistan, former fast bowler Sarfraz Nawaz
said Woolmer had fallen victim to a "gambling mafia."


"Nothing was stolen from Woolmer's (room) except for his diary
and papers," he told AFP. "I am not sure about his laptop. But
the diary and the papers could only be of interest to bookie
mafia."


Woolmer became coach of Pakistan in 2004 and had talked of the
stresses of managing one of the most volatile teams in world
cricket.


British police confirmed that they have volunteered to help with
the investigation, and retired Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Lord Condon was on standby to go to Jamaica. Condon was
commissioned by the ICC to write a report into cricketing
corruption in 2001.


Woolmer, meanwhile, received tributes from around the world.


"Our hearts go out to his family and we hope that the
investigation can get to the bottom of his murder so the
perpetrators can be punished," Mahmudur Rahman, chief executive
of the Bangladesh cricket board, told AFP.


South African bowling great Allan Donald, who was a friend of
Woolmer and played under him at county level and for South
Africa, criticised the ICC decision to press on with the
tournament.


"I just don't know how this World Cup can continue under the
shadow of what's happened," he told BBC radio, but added:
"Knowing Bob, he would have wanted this to go ahead."


"I think everyone will continue this World Cup but, at the back
of their minds, know that a tragedy took place."

