

Zimbabwean opposition leader Arthur Mutambara said Friday only
Africans had the moral authority to speak out against the
situation in his country under the regime of Robert Mugabe.


"The only people who have a legitimate role to talk about
Zimbabwe are Africans ... Mugabe is a despot, a dictator,
brutalising blacks, brutalising whites, brutalising Africans,"
the SAPA news agency reported Mutambara as telling a seminar on
Zimbabwe in Johannesburg.


Support from the West was appreciated, but Western states'
"double standards" undermined Zimbabweans' struggle against
Mugabe, he added.


Mutambara, who leads a breakaway faction of the Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) was barred from leaving Zimbabwe for
South Africa last week but travelled to Johannesburg after his
passport was returned on an order of court.


Western countries, especially Mugabe's sworn enemy Britain and
the United States, have been vociferous in criticising a recent
violent crackdown on the opposition.


The 83-year-old president told them to "go hang".


Traditionally loathe to interfere in Zimbabwean affairs, African
leaders have started adding their voices to the growing
international discontent.


Mutambara said the MDC respected South Africa's policy of "quiet
diplomacy" towards its neighbour.


"We respect the rights of the South African government ... we
leave the condemnation of the government to South Africans. We do
not think it is helpful or effective for us to condemn."


General secretary Zwelinzima Vavi of COSATU, an alliance partner
of the South African ruling party, said the South African
government should condemn "the atrocities causing pain and
suffering in Zimbabwe."


Mutambara said the fractured opposition had reunited under the
recent clampdown, and was capable of working together to bring
about change.


"Many are under the illusion that there is division in the
opposition movement in Zimbabwe, but the past two weeks have
shown the world that our core aim is to liberate our country ...
we stand a ghost of a chance as individuals," he said.

