

Knut, a polar bear cub who has become a global sensation after
surviving rejection by his mother, made his first public
appearance at the Berlin Zoo Friday under the gaze of the world's
media.


Knut seemed to lap up the attention from dozens of cameramen and
photographers, toddling around his enclosure, occasionally
nibbling the boots of his handler Thomas Doerflein and poking his
nose into a pond.


Even German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel got in on the
act, appearing with the little bear after adopting him through
the zoo's sponsorship scheme.


The nine-kilogramme (19-pound) bear has triggered a wave of media
coverage in recent days after an animal activist said he should
have been put down after he and his brother were spurned by their
mother following their birth in December.


His brother died, but Knut was reared by the zoo, with Doerflein
bottle-feeding him and strumming Elvis Presley songs for him on
his guitar.


Despite an impassioned debate over whether it is right to hand-
rear the cub, the zoo has vowed it will not kill the bear.


A zoo in the eastern German city of Leipzig was faced with a
similar dilemma last year when a sloth bear rejected its two
newborn cubs. The zoo allowed one to die and put the other down
because it feared that a bear raised by humans would become too
attached to its handler.


Knut now has his own video podcast from the zoo and a song has
been written about him: "I was born in a zoo in the middle of
Berlin, I have a lot of friends even a penguin..."


Many schools took their pupils on a special trip to the zoo to
get a glimpse of the new star on Friday.


"My pupils would love to take him home," said Eva-Maria Kraemer,
a teacher at a Berlin primary school.


The zoo said journalists from Australia, Colombia, Egypt, Japan,
New Zealand, South Africa and many European countries were
present to record Knut's first steps in public.


And even before this week's furore, celebrity photographer Annie
Leibovitz had taken Knut's portrait for an environmental
campaign.


Gabriel said that while Knut was safe, he hoped his story would
focus attention on the plight of polar bears, which are
classified as at risk by the World Conservation Union.


"Knut is in good hands and is not under threat," the minister
said. "But that is not the case for his species."

