

London and Dublin made last-ditch appeals to Northern Ireland's
political leaders on Friday to agree to share power ahead of a
make-or-break deadline in the British-run province.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's spokesman said the 12:00 am
Tuesday (2300 GMT Monday) deadline meant "devolution or
dissolution" while Irish Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern urged
Protestants and Catholics to make a historic break with the past.


"We're almost there. Let's finish the job. Let's secure the
peace. That's what Monday is about," he said.


The issue also came up in the Vatican, where Irish President Mary
McAleese, in Rome to address a European bishops' conference, had
a 35-minute audience with Pope Benedict XVI.


"The Pope said that the world needed this process to work and
emphasised the importance of Christians working together,
demonstrating that reconciliation can work," a statement from
McAleese's office said.


On Thursday, US President George W. Bush pressed for a deal to be
reached, telephoning the leaders of the province's biggest
parties -- the Protestant Democratic Unionists (DUP) and Catholic
Sinn Fein -- in person.


But there was still no clear indication Friday evening that the
DUP, which favours continued union with Britain, and Sinn Fein,
which largely wants union with the Republic of Ireland to the
south, had reached a landmark deal.


DUP leader Ian Paisley jetted in for talks with Blair in London,
a day before the party's 120-member executive meets in Belfast to
decide whether to nominate him as the devolved Northern Ireland
Assembly's first minister.


Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary has set a 0000 GMT Sunday
deadline on the party to confirm Paisley's candidature for the
job. Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, Martin McGuinness, is in line
to be his number two.


But unnamed DUP sources quoted by Britain's domestic Press
Association news agency Friday said there were still a number of
issues to be resolved before they would commit to forming an
executive with Sinn Fein.


The DUP wants greater clarity from Sinn Fein about its attitude
to Northern Ireland's police force, which it has long accused of
a pro-Protestant bias.


Both the DUP and Sinn Fein are also looking to Britain's finance
minister, Gordon Brown, to provide more money for the executive,
claiming a package unveiled Thursday was inadequate.


Brown promised Northern Ireland an extra one billion pounds (1.97
billion dollars, 1.47 billion euros) on top of 35 billion pounds
over four years but only on condition a power-sharing deal is
struck.


Paisley on Friday accused Brown of a "sleight of hand" because
400,000 pounds of the one billion was from the Irish government,
while Sinn Fein's Mitchel McLoughlin asked whether London was
setting up the assembly to fail.

