

Thousands of people fled their homes in Maputo Friday fearing
fresh explosions from the smoking wreckage of Mozambique's
largest armory as emergency workers stockpiled bodies and missile
shells.


Men, women and children packed up meagre belongings and tried to
hitch a lift into town from the impoverished Magoanine
neighbourhood which bore the brunt of the explosions on Thursday
evening which killed more than 80 people.


Women with children strapped to their backs and basic food
supplies balanced on their heads thronged along the highway
leading to the centre of town after being told by security forces
to get out of harm's way.


"We are worried about the possibility of more explosions," said
Maria Machabo, fleeing with her five young children.


"It is still so hot, yesterday it was 36 (degrees Celcius) (97
degrees Fahrenheit) now it's 38 ... even the soldiers seem to be
running away."


Security forces sealed off the area around the blast as smoke
continued to billow into the air on Friday afternoon with the
fire brigade fighting a losing battle to dampen the ground.


They were joined by medics and civilian volunteers to ferry the
dead and injured to hospital and gather exploded and unexploded
ordnance which landed in nearby homes.


A source involved in the emergency operation said the blast had
occurred as the massive stockpile of weapons, missiles and
ammunition had been badly stored at an army base close to the
capital's international airport.


"The explosion was due to bad storage," he said on condition of
anonymity.


"The ammunition and weapons were kept under a metal roof with no
real ventilation. It is the heat that has caused it."


Rockets and missiles rained down on houses after being set off by
a series of massive blasts around nightfall on Thursday.


As news began emerging of the scale of the tragedy, hospitals
treating the wounded issued an emergency appeal for blood donors
to come forward.


Dozens of volunteers gathered late night at Maputo Central
Hospital to donate blood as streams of makeshift ambulances
brought in the dead and wounded.


Others also offered help, like car dealership owner Daniero Jala
who gave emergency services the use of several 4-X-4 vehicles to
help in the evacuation of the injured and the gathering of
shells.


Stockpiles of missiles could be seen under the shade of trees
before being loaded into the back of vehicles.


Jala said he had seen scenes of carnage in the homes that had
borne the impact of the disaster.


"Until now they are still taking out the dead. There are bodies
still in the houses. It was so terrible, there were bodies
without heads ... so many people injured."


The impact of the explosion shattered windows up to eight
kilometres (five miles) away, including in the Tinashe health
clinic from where patients fled when windows shattered and the
ceilings began to collapse.


"The earth started rising from under our feet. We couldn't see
one another because of all the dust," said Machabo as she
described the moment of impact.


"It was getting dark but we could see the flames. They were very
high."


Many of the injured were children playing outside at the time of
the initial blast.


Eriqueta Chaver, a nurse at a nearby mental hospital that also
suffered extensive damage, said her 12-year-old niece was still
missing.


"She disappeared and I've asked for permission to look for her
(from security forces who cordoned off the area)."


Another resident, Raphael Luis, said he had to leave most of his
possessions behind, but this was of little importance.


"The only thing we should worry about is that we're alive," he
said as he trundled with his girlfriend towards her parents'
house.


"The rest does not matter."

