

The commander of coalition operations in the Gulf region where 15
British sailors were seized by Iran Friday said he hoped the
incident was a "misunderstanding" within disputed waters.


Commodore Nick Lambert, of the Royal Navy, told BBC television
that he believed the group were safe but stressed that they were
in Iraqi waters when they were captured.


"There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that they were in Iraqi
territorial waters," he said, speaking from HMS Cornwall, the
mother ship of the captured personnel.


"Equally, the Iranians may well claim that they were in Iranian
territorial waters.


"The extent and the definition of territorial waters in this part
of the world is very complicated -- that is one of the reasons
we're here."


He also outlined hopes that the situation would be resolved
quickly. "We may well find, and I hope we find, that this is a
simple misunderstanding at a tactical level," Lambert added.


"There hopefully has been a mistake that has been made and we'll
seek early clarification and an early release of my people."


His "scant communications" with the Iranians had reassured him
that "the 15 people are safely in their hands", he said, adding
that their capture had been "entirely peaceful".


"Everything is being done to the highest level of the UK
government, indeed the coalition structure that we're working
under, to ensure that safe return as soon as possible," he added.


Lambert also confirmed that the capture had taken place during a
routine boarding as forces worked to enforce a United Nations
Security Council resolution.


"The boarding party got on board, it was an entirely compliant
boarding, the skipper was quite content, he answered all the
questions and the leader of the boarding party cleared him to
continue with his business," he said.


"After that, we lost communications with the boats but we did
have a helicopter in the area...and our understanding from that
is that the boarding party returned to its boats which were then
promptly arrested by a group of Iranian patrol boats inside Iraqi
territorial waters."

