

About 2,000 Thais held an anti-junta rally organised by members
of deposed premier Thaksin Shinawatra's political party Friday,
demanding an end to the military-installed government.


"We are against the coup. The military government should leave
now," shouted the crowd, mostly middle-aged men and women, at
Bangkok's Sanam Luang plaza as 900 policemen stood guard.


Several protesters held a picture of Thaksin, who has been living
in self- imposed exile abroad since a bloodless coup in
September. He was in New York when the military overthrew his
twice-elected government.


"The military should leave politics. Surayud and Sonthi should
get out," said one male protester, referring to army-backed Prime
Minister Surayud Chulanont, a former general, and junta leader
General Sonthi Boonyaratglin.


The protest, which followed an anti-coup rally on Sunday, was
peaceful, police said. The weekend demonstration also drew at
least 2,000 people.


"Police are not going to take action as the rally is unlikely to
turn violent," said Police Major General Manit Wongsomboon.


The demonstration was organised by employees at a new Thai
television channel set up by members of Thaksin's Thai Rak Thai
(Thais Love Thais) party.


Earlier in the month a state telecom blocked the channel,
People's Television, from making its first broadcast. The
telecom's board of directors is headed by General Saprang
Kalayanamitra, one of the most outspoken junta members.


The military imposed martial law following the putsch, purged
Thaksin's loyalists and banned public gatherings.


The junta justified the coup by saying that Thaksin, a self-made
billionaire- turned-politician, was corrupt and that the army-
backed government would probe alleged graft during his five years
in office.


But the military has come under criticism over the slow pace of
its corruption probes, with the latest survey showing public
support for Surayud's government plunging to 48 percent in
February from 71 percent in November.


While the government has lifted the ban on political gatherings,
half of Thailand remains under martial law.

