

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will use European Union birthday
celebrations this weekend to relaunch debate about the bloc's
moribund constitution in an effort to end the impasse by 2009.


A "Berlin Declaration", to praise the EU's achievements and lay
out its priorities, will include a commitment to bring an end to
the institutional problems dogging the ever-expanding bloc.


It will be signed by Merkel and the heads of the European
Commission and the Parliament in the German capital on Sunday,
the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome that founded what is
now known as the EU.


"The presidents of the (EU) institutions agree that we need to
put the European Union on a new, sound foundation by 2009," an
official with the German EU presidency told reporters Friday, on
condition of anonymity.


Merkel is keen to resolve the problem, sparked when French and
Dutch voters rejected the planned EU constitution in referenda
two years ago, before European Parliament elections take place
that year.


The constitution was meant to simplify the way the EU operates as
it expands, as well as to establish a longer-term president and a
foreign minister.


It has been ratified by 18 member states, but all 27 must do so
for the treaty to enter into force. The document has remained in
political limbo and no one knows quite how, or whether, to
resurrect it.


Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek said on Thursday that Prague
would prefer that "no concrete date be mentioned in the (Berlin)
text." The Czech Republic is scheduled to hold the EU's
presidency for six months in 2009.


But the presidency official suggested Merkel had overcome this
problem in fresh talks on Friday with the Czech premier.


In an interview with Friday's mass market Bild newspaper, the
chancellor said that a European constitution was key to
eliminating the alienation that has arisen between the EU and
many of its citizens.


"A certain impatience is common because it often takes a long
time for the 27 member states to reach a consensus," she said.


"To change that we need an EU constitutional treaty to harmonise
the decision- making mechanisms with a larger EU."


The fact that there is no direct reference to the charter in the
Berlin Declaration is due to strong differences over how it
should be handled.


Merkel is tasked with drawing up a road map on the way ahead,
which she plans to present to EU leaders in June, once the
presidential elections are over in France.


"The window of opportunity will be after the French presidential
elections and so we will deal with intensively between mid-May
and June," the presidency official said.


"For the moment it's just a question of looking at the views of
the different countries. Discussion is going on intensively."


He said the heads of the three institutions -- the 26 other EU
leaders will not as previously thought sign the declaration --
"will put the Union on a renewed, common basis" on the way ahead.


But he noted that it would not bind them to the future.


"You can't put anything legally binding on the heads of state and
government. We can just decide together to seek to achieve
something. We can't do anymore unless there is a legally binding
treaty," he explained.


Starting with "We the citizens of the European Union...", the
declaration praises Europe's achievements, notes its common
values and address future challenges.


Priorities are to fight terrorism while protecting civil
liberties, combating poverty, defining a common, sustainable
energy policy and working to hold off climate change.

