

FIFA president Sepp Blatter warned Friday that violence on and
off the pitch had driven football to a crossroads and raised the
possibility of punishing coaches for the actions of their
players.


"We have now come to a crossroads of football. Our football is
ill and we must find medicine," Blatter said after a FIFA
Executive Committee meeting.


Blatter said successive FIFA Congresses in recent years, which
assemble football chiefs from around the world, had examined the
problem and sought to raise awareness.


"We have discussed it, now we need to act," Blatter told
journalists.


FIFA's next Congress is due to be held in Zurich on May 30-31.


Asked about the possibility of making coaches accountable for
misbehaviour by players, Blatter said it was a sensitive issue
and ruled it out for sporting conduct like fouls or cheating.


However, world football's supremo said he personally favoured the
idea for disciplinary conduct like players who fight.


"Coaches could also be punished," Blatter said.


"Coaches are also responsible for the behaviour of their team,"
he underlined.


Blatter slammed clashes between Arsenal and Chelsea players
during the League Cup final in Cardiff last month, and the mass
brawl between Valencia and Inter Milan players in their Champions
League tie on March 6.


"Violence is inside the stadiums and very well paid players are
coming to blows, like at Cardiff or Valencia," he said.


"If players are not educated and coaches don't impose a minimum
of discipline on them, where are we heading?" FIFA's chief added.


Blatter noted that even rich countries were unable to provide a
safe environment for fans in their stadiums.


European governing body UEFA's new president, Michel Platini,
told police and government officials this week that he supports a
policy of "zero tolerance" towards violence in and around
football stadiums in Europe.


Platini has also called for more government cooperation in Europe
to stamp out stadium violence following an upsurge in incidents
in several countries, including the murder of a policeman by
rampaging fans in Italy earlier this year.

