

London investors will track takeover talk and company earnings
next week to guide the stock market to higher ground following
turbulent trading earlier this month, analysts said.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares ended at 6,339,40
points on Friday, up 208.8 points or 3.4 percent from a week
earlier.


Investors are hoping that merger and acquisition (M and A) news
will continue to drive share prices higher, analysts said.


"M and A stories and rumours are behind the relative strength of
many companies that have performed well over recent weeks," said
ABN Amro analyst Elin Ottosson.


"There are several reasons why the M and A activity should
continue -- borrowing costs are low, there are plenty of buyers
out there and the appetite for M and A has not decreased."


Next week, investors will digest a fourth-quarter trading update
from supermarket chain J Sainsbury -- which has been the subject
of intense takeover speculation.


Investors will also keep a keen eye on British bank Barclays,
which has outlined plans for a merger with Dutch peer ABN Amro
but has stopped short of announcing a formal takeover offer.


Britain's Imperial Tobacco is chasing Altadis after the Franco-
Spanish cigarette rejected its takeover bid worth 11.5 billion
euros (15.2 billion dollars).


Takeover talk has also sent shares soaring in leisure group
Whitbread, and confectionery and soft drinks giant Cadbury
Schweppes.


Other companies publishing their latest results next week include
oil exploration group Cairn Energy, catering firm Compass and
home-improvements retailer Kingfisher.


Next Wednesday, meanwhile, investors will pore over the third and
final estimate of British economic growth in the fourth quarter
of 2007.


The economy grew by 2.7 percent in 2006, according to the second
estimate published last month. The gross domestic product growth
figure compared with 1.9 percent in 2005.


Earlier this week, British finance minister Gordon Brown held his
economic growth forecasts as he unveiled his eleventh and
probably final budget before taking over from Prime Minister Tony
Blair later this year.


Brown predicted economic growth of 2.5-3.0 percent in 2008 and
2009, down from a forecast of 2.75-3.25 percent growth in 2007.

