

Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, who wants to become France's
first woman president, talks about her family, feminism and life
in politics in a new book to be released next week.


Royal heaps praise on her partner, Francois Hollande, who heads
the Socialist Party, and their four children in "Now", which goes
on sale Tuesday.


"I think my children are absolutely great. They support me, each
of them in his or her way. Francois too," said Royal in the book,
which is a compilation of interviews with Elle magazine editor-
in-chief Marie-Francoise Colombani.


"I think about them all the time because they do have to be well-
balanced to remain calm during this ordeal," she said.


The couple's four children -- Thomas, Clemence, Julien and Flora
-- are aged between 22 and 14. The eldest, Thomas, is helping her
campaign, in particular in running her website.


The 53-year-old presidential contender in next month's election
also denied rumours that her relationship with Hollande had
become an arrangement of convenience.


"Yes, we are together and yes, we live together," she said. "If
that wasn't the case, I can assure you that with the number of
paparazzi who follow us, it would come out."


The Socialist who polls show is running neck-to-neck with Nicolas
Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing rightwing party, said she
was not bothered by rumours.


"I am always quick to talk to my children to dispel those 'they
are saying that...' before they reach them," she said.


While the couple have never married, they have been together for
over 25 years, since they met at the elite Ecole Nationale
d'Administration (ENA).


Royal said that she would give up politics "without even a
thought" if one of her children became ill or had serious
problems that required full-time attention.


A former adviser to late president Francois Mitterrand, she also
said she was not surprised by claims that she lacks the gravitas
required to become the head of state.


"It's not surprising. It's such a revolution to have a woman at
the pinnacle of power."


Royal also said that being a feminist "did not mean being hostile
to men. It's about rejecting a system of male domination of which
men also are prisoners."


Excerpts of the book are due to be published in Elle magazine on
Monday.

