

The Security Council scrambled Friday to reach consensus on a
draft text broadening UN sanctions against Iran as the Iranian
president was granted a US visa to attend the vote expected
Saturday.


The 15-member body held another bargaining round Friday over
imposing punitive sanctions on Tehran for refusing to halt its
sensitive nuclear fuel work.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has asked to address
the Council to defend his country's right to uranium enrichment,
was issued a visa Friday and was expected to attend the vote with
his delegation.


But ahead of the vote, the 15-member Security Council was still
involved in last-minute haggling, with Indonesia and Qatar
insisting on inserting a paragraph on the goal of establishing a
"Middle East free from weapons of mass destruction and all
missiles for their delivery" into the draft.


Chinese Ambassador Wang Guangya, whose country was among the six
major powers which crafted the latest sanctions resolution, said
efforts were continuing to accommodate South Africa, Indonesia
and Qatar, three non-permanent council members still unhappy with
the latest amended text.


"We have to see how council members react to the text put in blue
(meaning readied for a imminent vote Thursday) and see whether
there are areas that can be improved to get more support," he
told reporters.


"I want all 15 council members on board."


Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of the draft's co-
sponsors, said Thursday the plan was to have a vote on the text
Saturday.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
text has the support of at least 12 council members.


Ahmadinejad told French television Thursday that he wanted to
present what he called "new proposals" about the Islamic
Republic's nuclear program, which the major powers fear is a
covert grab for an atomic bomb.


He called the proposed UN sanctions illegal, adding he was "not
worried" by the prospect of US strikes against his country over
the issue.


The delicate diplomatic maneuvering here was unfolding amid fears
for 15 British navy sailors seized by Iran as they were
conducting "routine" anti-smuggling checks in Iraqi waters
Friday, according to the British Ministry of Defense.


Diplomats said the incident has no bearing on the sanctions
debate here, but it comes amid rising tensions between Iran and
other countries.


Late Thursday, the Security Council members had finetuned minor
changes made to the text agreed last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus Germany.


But South Africa expressed disappointment that its suggestions
for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political
negotiations with Tehran, to remove the weapons ban and other
financial sanctions were rejected.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


Indonesian Ambassador Rezlan Ishar Jenie also said Friday: "We
are not happy with the text. There are important things that we
see as not there."


He said the insertion of a paragraph on the Middle East a
nuclear-free zone was "one important aspect I want to discuss
today".


His Qatari counterpart Nassir Abdulaziz al-Nasser said he also
wanted the paragrah included.


The draft resolution under consideration would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it is striving to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its program is designed to
generate electricity.

