

The international community on Friday called for an immediate
ceasefire in the Democratic Republic of Congo, urging renewed
dialogue to settle a standoff between Kinshasa and opposition
leader Jean-Pierre Bemba.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana launched "a solemn appeal
to the Congolese actors to settle their differences through
dialogue," after fighting in the capital over the past two days
left at least seven people dead.


"The international community, and especially the European Union,
will not accept that the Congolese democratic experiment, a major
success for the African continent, is jeopardised," he added.


Solana went on to express his "deep concern" over the situation
in Kinshasa, where authorities have issued an arrest warrant for
"high treason" for Bemba, who has sought refuge in the South
African embassy amid heavy fighting between members of his
personal bodyguard and government troops.


South Africa, a key contributor to the peace process in DR Congo,
agreed, appealing "to all forces in the DRC to immediately stop
fighting" and take part in negotiations, deputy foreign minister
Aziz Pahad told reporters in Pretoria.


Britain meanwhile called "on both President (Joseph) Kabila and
Mr Bemba to order an immediate ceasefire in the interests of
peace and of the innocent lives of their fellow citizens,"
according to a statement by Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett.


"And I call on them to resolve their differences by negotiation
in the same spirit which ended the civil war and brought fresh
hope to their country. The Democratic Republic of Congo has
suffered enough," she added.


"Nothing can justify the attacks using heavy weapons in a capital
city of nine million civilians. Many hundreds of people are
currently trapped, including school children," Beckett said.


France also called "for an immediate halt to the confrontations
that began yesterday (Thursday) in Kinshasa and that have created
both civilian and military victims," foreign ministry spokesman
Jean-Baptiste Mattei told reporters.


Paris "calls on all the participating parties, especially the
legitimate Congolese government ... and senator Jean-Pierre Bemba
to re-establish dialogue as quickly as possible and to work to
find a peaceful, joint and lasting solution to the current
crisis," Mattei said.


He added that two French citizens had been injured by stray
bullets during the fighting on Thursday, but their lives were
"not in danger."


Belgium, the former colonial power in DRC, joined the call for
calm, with Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt calling for "an
immediate cessation of fighting."


Portugal meanwhile said Friday it was prepared to evacuate its
citizens from DRC following the latest upsurge in violence.


On Thursday, the United Nations Mission in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, or MONUC, evacuated over six hundred people
from an area of Congolese capital caught up in fierce fighting.


Those taken to safety included UN personnel, foreign embassy
staff, school children and wounded civilians, said MONUC
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Didier Rancher.


Tensions have been rising in Kinshasa since the government of
Kabila announced last week that it intended to scale down the
military force protecting Bemba, a former rebel leader.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections here in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated
as president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Since his election as a senator, Bemba has refused to have his
vice-presidential bodyguard integrated into the regular army,
arguing that his personal security could not be guaranteed.

