

Australian Adam Blyth fired a new course record of seven-under-
par 65 to charge into the joint halfway lead with American Mike
Cunning in the inaugural Motorola International Bintan on Friday.


The 25-year-old Blyth, chasing his maiden title on the Asian
Tour, was flawless as he sunk five birdies and an eagle to better
the day-old record set by Cunning and New Zealand's Mark Brown.


India's Vivek Bhandari also carded a spectacular 65, an 11-shot
improvement from his opening round 76.


Struggling with the flu, Cunning laboured to a 69 to retain his
overnight lead in the 350,000 dollar event at the spectacular
Gary Player-designed Ria Bintan Golf Club on this holiday isle
off the coast of Singapore.


Korean Ted Oh maintained his push for a maiden title in Asia with
a 69 that left him in a share of third place with Australian
Scott Strange, who carded a 67.


A stroke further back were Thai star Thaworn Wiratchant, Asia's
number one in 2005, who carded a 67, Australians Peter Fowler
(69) and Scott Hend (68), Canadian Rick Gibson (69) and New
Zealand's Mark Brown (71).


"This is my career best round. It was kind of a weird round. When
I started, I was feeling tired. I then said to myself to wake up
and let's start playing golf," said Blyth, playing in his third
season in the region.


Cunning showed he still had some fight left in his game despite
being ill.


He eagled the 16th, rifling a three wood approach to 10 feet of
the flag.


But what took the aches away was a 20 foot birdie conversion at
the last hole.


"The last three holes, all of the sudden, that was exciting,"
said Cunning.


"It was good to finish with that long birdie as I knew nine under
was leading. Unfortunately, I'm not feeling so good. Maybe that's
a blessing in disguise."


US-based Oh hopes to finally realise his potential here after a
colourful amateur career where he made global headlines by
qualifying for the US Open as a 16-year-old.


The Korean, now 30, was Rookie of the Year in Asia in 2001 but
has failed to secure his winning breakthrough, with two top-three
finishes plus a couple of domestic wins in Korea.


Unlike Oh, Strange has won twice in Myanmar and the Philippines.


"Pull off a win on Sunday and it'll be a big party on Sunday
night! They might have to leave that tent behind on that 18th
green but that's still two days away," said Strange, 15th on the
Asian Tour's UBS Order of Merit.


Thaworn was thrilled to be in contention as he looks for a record
ninth Asian Tour title after a superb round that included six
birdies against a lone bogey.


The halfway cut was set at 144 with 72 players qualifying for the
weekend rounds. Local player Illassyak, who added a 70 to his
first round 72, was the only Indonesian to survive the cut.

