

Upul Tharanga and Chamara Silva hit solid half-centuries to help
Sri Lanka post a competitive 254-6 in a World Cup match against
India here on Friday.


India bowled superbly for a major part of the innings before
losing their way in the closing 10 overs which yielded 75 runs,
thanks to Silva's 68-ball 59 for his third successive half-
century.


Silva put on 83 for the fifth wicket off just 80 balls with
Tillakaratne Dilshan (38), ensuring his team crossed the
250-mark.


Left-handed opener Tharanga top-scored with a fighting 64 for his
sixth half- century, but was unable to dominate the disciplined
pace-spin attack.


Seamers Zaheer Khan (2-49), Munaf Patel (1-46) and Ajit Agarkar
(1-33) all bowled tightly on a pitch which offered movement and
bounce early in the innings.


India, needing a win in this game to boost their chances of
qualifying for the next Super Eight stage, kept pressure on the
Sri Lankan batsmen as they never allowed them to build a notable
partnership till the closing overs.


India skipper Rahul Dravid elected to field after winning the
toss and his new- ball bowlers did not let their captain down as
both Zaheer and Agarkar exploited the conditions superbly.


Veteran Sanath Jayasuriya (six), who hammered a century in the
previous game against Bangladesh, was the first to go when he
top-edged a Zaheer delivery to be caught by Agarkar at the third-
man boundary.


Tharanga kept his end intact with his sensible knock, but
received little support as in-form skipper Mahela Jayawardene and
Kumar Sangakkara fell cheaply to leave their team in a spot.


Agarkar was rewarded for his hard work when he had Jayawardene
(seven) caught by wicket-keeper Mahendra Dhoni, who dived to his
left to bring off an excellent catch.


Sangakkara (15) lost his patience and wicket, caught at long-off
by Patel while trying a big shot off seamer Sourav Ganguly.


Sachin Tendulkar then got a big wicket when he trapped Tharanga
leg-before to send Sri Lanka struggling at 133-3. The Sri Lankan
opener struck six fours in his 90-ball knock.

