

Democratic Republic of Congo opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba,
who faces treason charges, proclaimed his innocence in an
interview aired here Friday, saying the Kinshasa authorities were
trying to eliminate him.


"It's me who's been the victim of the attack and encirclement of
my residence for weeks," Bemba told Belgian public radio VRT,
adding that he believed the authorities wanted to eliminate him.


"You can't turn the roles on their heads. I am truly the victim
and am not guilty," he added.


Bemba, who was defeated in presidential elections last year,
sought refuge in the South African embassy in Kinshasa late
Thursday after heavy fighting broke out between members of his
personal bodyguard and government troops in the capital Kinshasa.


Asked if he thought that DR Congo President Joseph Kabila's camp
were trying to "physically eliminate him", Bemba replied: "Yes, I
can confirm that, and in so doing muzzle the opposition."


The fighting broke out after Bemba, a former rebel chief, refused
a government order for his bodyguards to be integrated into the
regular army.


The judicial authorities on Friday announced that they had issued
"an arrest warrant for high treason" against him.


"Bemba committed treason in using the armed forces for his own
ends," a government spokesman said.


Bemba told his Belgian interviewer that he was safe at present
but refused to say if he remained in the South African embassy.


"The attack on my residence was the fourth in six months," he
said. "I deplore this way of seeking to hurt me physically," he
added.


Bemba, who was elected a senator in January, a position that
carries immunity from prosecution, said he no longer controlled
his forces since having to flee his residence.


"Everyone needs to calm down," he added.


Light weapons fire and loud explosions from shells or mortars
were heard  Friday in Kinshasa's northern district of Gombe,
where Bemba's residence is located.


But the district was later brought "under the control of the
Congolese army," a spokesman for the UN mission in the country
(MONUC) said.


At least seven people have been killed in the fighting in the
past two days, UN- sponsored Radio Okapi reported.

