

Was it a death-blow to the gut, or was legendary illusionist
Harry Houdini poisoned? A family member bent on getting at the
truth is trying to bust Houdini out of his grave to find out.


The Hungarian-born magician died in 1926 at the age of 52 in
circumstances shrouded in mystery. While the official cause of
death was peritonitis caused by a ruptured appendix, one theory
has suggested he was poisoned.


"Advances in forensic science have increased our desire to
disinter... in order to solve outstanding mysteries," said Joseph
Tacopina, a lawyer representing Houdini's grandnephew George
Hardeen.


"In the case of Harry Houdini, evidence has come to light 80
years after his passing which shrouds his death in as much
mystery as that which enveloped his life -- evidence which
suggests that he may have been poisoned," he said.


A team of pathologists and toxicologists led by renowned forensic
specialist Professor James Starrs was on hand to perform tests on
the remains pending approval by a New York City court.


Legal papers requesting an exhumation were due to be filed next
week.


Houdini made some enemies by trying to expose mediums in the
then-popular spiritualist movement, saying their claims to be
able to contact the dead were bogus. The theory goes that they
may have killed the magician.


One of those who fell out with Houdini was Arthur Conan Doyle,
the writer and creator of detective Sherlock Holmes.


The most commonly accepted account of Houdini's death describes
how a student repeatedly punched him in the stomach when the
illusionist said he could withstand any blow. Accounts of the
incident suggest Houdini was not ready and crumpled in pain.


It was originally believed that the blows may have ruptured his
appendix, but Tacopina said this was now proven to be impossible.


Houdini is best remembered for his death-defying stunts, such as
the one in which he would escape while handcuffed inside a
nailed-down packing crate plunged into a water-filled tank, all
in full view of his audience.


He is buried in New York City.

