

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was issued a visa by the US
on Friday, ahead of a UN Security Council vote on a draft
resolution slapping new punitive sanctions on his country.


The Iranian leader, who has remained defiant in the latest
showdown with major powers over his country's suspect nuclear
program, has asked to address the Council, which is expected to
vote on the resolution on Saturday.


Ahmadinejad told French television Thursday that he wanted to
present what he called "new proposals" about the Islamic
Republic's nuclear program, which the major powers fears is a
covert grab for an atomic bomb.


He called the proposed UN sanctions illegal, adding he was "not
worried" by the prospect of US strikes against his country over
the issue.


"The passports with the visas with them have been delivered,"
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said, adding some of
the requests from the Iranian delegation for visas were still
being examined.


The move came amid fears for 15 British navy sailors seized by
Iran as they were conducting "routine" anti-smuggling checks in
Iraqi waters Friday, the British Ministry of Defence said in
London.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has summoned the
Iranian ambassador, and the British government has demanded the
immediate release of the sailors seized in the disputed Shatt al-
Arab waterway.


But the incident risks inflaming the tensions between the Islamic
Republic and the major powers over Tehran's nuclear plans, as the
Security Council vote nears.


Late Thursday the Security Council members had finetuned minor
changes made to the text agreed last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus Germany.


"Our intention is that there should be a vote Saturday,"
Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry told reporters after the
15-member Security Council met.


"We'll meet tomorrow (Friday) for one final consideration. But
the text is in blue," indicating it is ready for an imminent
vote.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
draft was expected to receive overwhelming support.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it is striving to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its program is designed to
generate electricity.


Amid the tensions over its nuclear ambitions, Tehran announced it
had launched naval military exercises, codenamed "Power," in the
Gulf to display the Islamic Republic's "power and defense
capability."


"During these maneuvers frigates equipped with missiles,
warships, air-to-sea missiles and sea-to-air missiles are being
used, as well as tactical reconnaissance submarines," Admiral
Sajad Kushaki told state television.


"The Iranian people will not allow a single American soldier to
set foot on their soil."


Earlier this year US President George W. Bush announced the
United States was increasing its own naval presence in the Gulf,
in a move seen more directed at Iran than to support US forces in
Iraq.


The draft resolution under consideration would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.


The sponsors of the resolution rejected proposals from South
Africa for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political
negotiations with Tehran to continue.


A proposal by Indonesia and Qatar to include in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery" also was
dismissed.

