

World oil prices eased on Friday as traders took profits after
recent gains, but London Brent remained above 62 dollars per
barrel on concerns over weak US gasoline reserves, analysts said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
shed 32 cents to 62.19 dollars per barrel during electronic
trading, after peaking overnight at 62.74 dollars.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, lost 37 cents to 61.32 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market,
after earlier hitting 61.99 dollars.


Oil prices had soared by about two dollars on Thursday amid
tightening US gasoline reserves, and on the belief that a US
Federal Reserve rate cut could be in the offing, dealers said.


"Crude futures were a little lower (on Friday), coming off after
strong gains on the back of continued concerns over sharp falls
in gasoline stocks and after the US Federal Reserve left interest
rates unchanged, relaxing its hawkish tone about future rises,"
said Sucden analyst Michael Davies.


A stable US economy bolsters oil prices because it improves the
demand outlook in the world's biggest economy, analysts said.


"There's a lot of talk the Fed won't increase rates anymore,
which is seen as positive for commodities," said Base Commodities
trader Tony Machacek, who added that Friday's modest falls were
due to profit-taking.


This week, crude oil prices have veered close to 2007 high points
approaching 63 dollars per barrel.


Oil prices have found firm ground as an encouraging recovery on
world stock markets has supported investor sentiment.


Elsewhere, market concerns persisted over key crude producer
Iran.


Major powers readied a draft resolution on Friday to slap new
punitive sanctions on Iran with a UN Security Council vote
expected Saturday as Tehran remained defiant over its nuclear
program.


"Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad plans to reassure the
council on how it (Iran) has no intentions of developing weapons
and that its nuclear program is for energy generation only,"
Davies noted.


Should the international community punish Iran with economic
sanctions, the Islamic republic might disrupt its crucial oil
exports, according to some industry experts.

