

US home sales rose 3.9 percent in February as the struggling real
estate market showed some signs of a rebound, industry data
showed Friday.


The National Association of Realtors (NAR) said existing home
sales improved to an annualized pace of 6.69 million, well ahead
of market expectations of a pace of 6.30 million.


The monthly report showed signs that lower prices -- following a
long boom in the property market that ended last year -- are
starting to stimulate sales.


The median sales price fell 1.3 percent to 212,800 dollars, the
seventh decline in a row.


The property market has been struggling as lending rates have
increased and speculators have pulled out of what had been a
sizzling sector.


The latest data show existing home sales are still 3.6 percent
below the 6.94 million-unit pace in February 2006, but last
month's increase was the second in a row and the biggest monthly
rise in three years.


"Some of the rise in home sales may be from mild weather that
brought out shoppers in December, but fundamentals have improved
in the housing market and buyers see a window now with
historically low mortgage interest rates and competitive pricing
by sellers," said David Lereah, NAR's chief economist.


"Even so, winter storms last month discouraged shopping, and
buyers were chilled with the third coldest February on record.
These unusual weather patterns mean home sales that close in
March may decline before rebounding later this spring."


Mortgage rates have returned to near historic lows after rising
much of last year. The NAR said data showed a 30-year,
conventional, fixed-rate mortgage was 6.16 percent in the last
week, down from an average of 6.29 percent in February. That
compared with 6.22 percent in January, and 6.25 percent in
February 2006.


NAR president Pat Vredevoogd Combs said the overall figures
failed to show regional trends -- with some of the areas that
benefitted from the boom now hurting.


"Over the last year, we've seen declining sales in many high-cost
areas but rising activity in lower cost markets," she said.


"This change in the geographic composition of sales means we
aren't getting apples-to-apples comparisons in median home prices
from a year ago."


She said home prices are "soft" in general after several years of
double-digit price growth.


Total housing inventory levels rose 5.9 percent at the end of
February to 3.75 million existing homes available for sale, which
represents a 6.7-month supply at the current sales pace.

