

Opponents of the Belarussian regime say police are arresting
opposition activists on the flimsiest of pretexts, even for
swearing, in an attempt to cripple a planned protest rally this
weekend.


The rally on Sunday comes a year after unprecedented protests in
the capital Minsk against presidential elections in which
authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko was declared the
overwhelming victor.


The ex-Soviet republic's security services appear to be taking no
chances this time. Opponents have been banned from gathering on
Minsk's vast central Oktyabrskaya Square and have instead been
allotted a small square in the city outskirts.


Police are also moving preventatively against activists hoping to
rally with key opposition leaders including former presidential
candidate Alexander Milinkevich.


"Some are being warned about criminal charges should there be
disturbances. Others are being charged and imprisoned for several
days," Ales Belyatsky, the head of the human rights organisation
Vyasna, told AFP.


Five members of the Youth Front opposition group were facing
trial Friday on "hooliganism" charges, including swearing during
arrest by police, Vyasna said.


Youth Front's spokesman, Boris Garetsky, was sentenced Thursday
to 12 days in prison for swearing, according to Vyasna, which
monitors the courts in Belarus.


"It's just like last year. They're going after the most active
youth representatives, the ones who say they will go to the
square," Belyatsky said.


Lukashenko, dubbed "Europe's last dictator" in some Western
capitals, allows no criticism in the state-controlled media and
has imposed severe restrictions on opposition demonstrations.


After police violently dispersed an unauthorised post-election
rally last year and arrested opposition leader Alexander Kozulin,
the European Union and the United States imposed sanctions
against Lukashenko and his entourage.


Sunday's demonstration will be a test of the opposition's ability
to sustain its momentum and overcome persistant internal
divisions and rivalries.


Meanwhile Lukashenko has also come under pressure from his
traditional backers in Moscow.


An energy pricing row badly strained ties over the New Year and
Lukashenko accused Russia of "putting the noose around our neck."


This has led some analysts to predict a softening in Lukashenko's
hardline domestic policies and an attempt to rebuild links with
Western countries.


However, the run-up to Sunday's demonstration -- officially
marking Belarus's short-lived pre-Soviet independence declaration
-- recalls the atmosphere surrounding protests last year.


Police have arrested activists from the Free Youth movement,
which is largely made up of veterans from the 2006 protest, in
which several hundred young protestors occupied Oktyabrskaya
Square for four days, before being arrested en masse.


Arrests have also taken place in the provinces, including the
cities of Grodno and Gomel, opposition members say.


"Such acts starkly differ from the Belarussian authorities'
rhetoric about wanting to improve relations with the civilised
international community," the United Civil Party, an opposition
group, said.


"This is proof that violation of rights and freedoms in Belarus
are overwhelming and permanent."


Sovietskaya Belarussiya, an official newspaper, dismissed the
opposition as self-serving and in the pocket of Western
paymasters.


"Those urging youths to come to the square well understand that
this is the only way they can show themselves and get jobs in the
opposition, which as you know are not badly paid," the newspaper
said. "They are just using the youths."

