

Long-ruling Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe on Friday
castigated opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai as being a stooge
of the West and vowed he would never rule the country.


"Tsvangirai, you want to rule this country on behalf of (British
Prime Minister Tony) Blair," Mugabe told hundreds of supporters
at his party headquarters.


"As long as I am alive that will never happen."


He said Britain was using Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC) party as a front to re-colonise Zimbabwe in order to
plunder the country's minerals.


"You (Tsvangirai) thought when I say I am 83, you could push me.
It's a solid 83 years of experience and resilience and I know the
tactics.


"We went to jail, we are hardened. Nothing frightens me. Someone
wrote that I am a frightened man. Frightened by who? Little men
like Blair. I have seen it all. I make a stand on principle, here
I was born, here I stand and here I shall die."


Mugabe has come under increasing international pressure after his
security forces thwarted a planned anti-government rally,
detaining and beating up Tsvangirai and scores of opposition
activists.


He said Tsvangirai provoked the police to arrest and assault him
to draw the attention of the international media while opposition
youths were paid to start riots.


"You don't go to the police with violence. If you are a violent
man you get more violence."


Mugabe called on members of his ruling Zimbabwe African National
Union - Patriotic Front to stand up against their opponents
saying there was no room for cowards in the party.


"There are some among us who are frightened. If they are attacked
they easily break. They are frightened by reports from CNN and
BBC and think we are finished. This has not started today. We
have experienced worse things. We were put in jails by the
colonial government and restricted in protected villages like
goats and we were labelled terrorists."


Mugabe, who has ruled Zimbabwe since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1980, announced he is ready to stand
for another term in presidential elections due next year if his
party choses him.

