

US President George W. Bush will probably not shut down the
controversial Guantanamo Bay prison for suspected terrorists
before leaving office in January 2009, the White House said
Friday.


Asked whether the facility, a lightning rod for international
criticism from rights groups and even US allies, would close
before Bush's term ends, spokesman Tony Snow replied: "I doubt
it. No, I don't think it will."


Most countries with citizens held at the US military base in Cuba
have told Washington they do not want them back, and moving them
to the US mainland would pose legal headaches, Snow told
reporters.


Moreover, the United States has only just opened trials by
military commission for some of the roughly 400 detainees, some
of whom have been held at the base since the late 2001 US
invasion of Afghanistan, he said.


"We have just begun a legal procedure that does take time," said
Snow. "It's highly unlikely that you can dispense with all those
cases between now and the end of the administration."


Snow confirmed a New York Times report that new US Defense
Secretary Robert Gates pushed late last year to shut the
facility, arguing it damaged US credibility and that any trials
would be tainted by its notoriety.


"He had some concerns. And the legal issues were resolved and he
deferred to the attorney general on the legal issues," said Snow.
"But it did not reach the president."


Bringing the prisoners to the United States from the US military
base in Cuba would have legal ramifications, potentially
expanding the detainees' rights and encouraging them or others to
file lawsuits challenging their imprisonment, US officials have
said.


In his first weeks in office, Gates lobbied to have trials of
terror suspects held at Guantanamo to be moved to the United
States to lend more credibility to the proceedings and to remove
a problem that was hampering the broader war on terror, the
officials told the Times.


Gates found support for his case from Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice but failed to persuade Bush to shut down the
detention camp, the paper said, quoting unnamed administration
officials.


The defense secretary's predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, had
overseen the creation of the Guantanamo camp and staunchly
defended the prison despite widespread criticism from foreign
governments and human rights groups.


But Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and some government lawyers
strongly objected to Gates's proposal, with Vice President Dick
Cheney weighing in on their side, the newspaper wrote.


Although high-level discussions about closing the controversial
prison ended after Bush rejected the idea, officials continue to
study options for the detention of terror suspects, it said.


One official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a separate
dispute that has damaged Gonzales could mean Gates's proposed
approach might be revived in the future.


"Let's see what happens to Gonzales," the official said,
referring to speculation the attorney general might be forced to
step down due to a row over a mass firing of federal prosecutors.


One alternative to Guantanamo that was discussed would have moved
detainees from Guantanamo to military brigs in the United States,
where they would remain under the custody of the US military and
would be subject to a military trial.


As of December 2006, the Pentagon said more than 400 detainees
were being held in Guantanamo, including alleged Al-Qaeda
operative Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and 13 others from Al-Qaeda.


Human rights advocates in the United States and abroad have
demanded the detainees either be charged with crimes in US courts
or released.


The US Congress adopted a law last year allowing for the
detainees to be tried in special military tribunals that operate
under different procedures than US courts or military courts-
martial.

