

Britain and Spain are to prospect for treasures buried on a
British galleon which sank in the Mediterranean four centuries
ago, the foreign ministry said here Friday.


The ministry announced its "satisfaction at the agreement" which
would see the two countries work together to rescue artefacts
from the vessel, believed to be the HMS Sussex, which went down
in 1694 in the western Mediterranean.


Britain and Spain "have reached an accord to carry out undersea
archaeological prospection in the waters of the Sea of Alboran"
in the western Mediterranean "to identify the hull of 'HMS
Sussex'," a ministry statement said.


The vessel is submerged west of the Strait of Gibraltar and is
widely believed to contain a rich cargo of an estimated 10 tonnes
of gold and 100 tonnes of silver.


The joint mission will be overseen by Odyssey Marine Exploration,
a US- registered exploration company which first became aware of
the vessel a decade ago and which has a contract with the British
government.


The ministry added that if the vessel were confirmed as HMS
Sussex then "Spain will recognise that the hull and contents are
the property of the United Kingdom in accordance with
international law."


According to the Council for British Archaeology the cargo is
worth "hundreds of millions of dollars on the open market."


Its cargo is thought to consist primarily of gold coins.


The vessel, which was hoping to provide financial support to the
Duke of Savoy during a war against French King Louis XIV, is
believed to be in about 2,500 feet (900 metres) below the
surface, requiring a search using deep sea robotic equipment.


Archaeologists who will take part in the mission include a number
from the regional government of the southern Spanish region of
Andalusia.


HMS Sussex went down in a severe storm in February 1694 a day out
of the British dependent territory of Gibraltar.


It was the flagship of Admiral Sir Francis Wheeler, who drowned
along with all but two of the crew.


Searches by Odyssey expeditions to date have uncovered a number
of other shipwreck sites, including a merchant vessel some 2,500
years old and believed to date from Phoenician times.

