

The head of oil giant BP discussed the group's future operations
in Russia with President Vladimir Putin Friday as BP joint
venture TNK-BP said it would participate in a sale of assets of
the stricken company Yukos.


Putin hosted BP chief executive John Browne and his designated
successor Tony Howard at his residence outside Moscow.


BP "is actively developing in Russia and there has been a growth
of its reserves, production volume and profit," Putin was quoted
by RIA Novosti as telling the executives.


Earlier a TNK-BP spokesman, Peter Henshaw, told AFP the company
would participate in an auction next week of a 9.44-percent stake
in state-controlled Rosneft owned by stricken giant Yukos.


BP owns 50 percent of TNK-BP, with the other half owned by
Russia's Alfa Group.


Henshaw said TNK-BP had placed a deposit to participate in
Tuesday's auction of the Rosneft stake, part of a sell-off of
assets of Yukos, whose former head Mikhail Khodorkovsky is in
jail on embezzlement charges.


"We're interested in the asset and we intend to participate in
the auction," Henshaw told AFP, adding that he was unaware of the
agenda of Friday's meeting.


A spokesman for BP in Moscow, Vladimir Buyanov, declined to
comment on the content of Friday's meeting, saying only that
Browne had introduced Howard to Putin.


At next Tuesday's auction TNK-BP will come up against Rosneft
itself, which is also bidding for the stake.


An analyst at Moscow-based Alfa-Bank, Konstantin Batunin, said
TNK-BP was unlikely to win the Rosneft stake up for auction and
that its participation was more intended to dignify the process.


The sell-off of Yukos assets has been controversial as the West
criticized the break-up of the company and Khodorkovsky's jailing
in what were seen as heavily politicized inquiries.


Yukos' former management, a number of whom have fled the country,
has denied that the company was bankrupt and needed breaking up
and has rejected the charges against it.


BP has been cooperating closely with Rosneft on a number of
projects around Sakhalin island in the Russian Far East and last
year spent one billion dollars on Rosneft shares in a public
flotation.


Batunin said it was the future composition of TNK-BP that would
be at the centre of Friday's talks and in particular the
possibility of Gazprom taking over Alfa Group's stake.


Russian media have said that Gazprom is seeking a stake in TNK-BP
after the Russian gas giant recently obtained a controlling
interest in the Sakhalin-2 energy project.


Gazprom has not publicly stated such an intention.


But Batunin insisted the most important issue in Friday's talks
was the "likely entrance of Gazprom into TNK-BP by replacing
Alfa" and probably taking majority control with an additional
share.


"By assisting Rosneft ... the company raises its prestige in the
eyes of the Russian authorities," Batunin said.


Rosneft said earlier it had borrowed 22 billion dollars (16.5
billion euros) mainly to invest in Yukos assets.


The starting price for the Rosneft stake at next week's auction
is 195.5 billion rubles (5.6 billion euros, 7.5 billion dollars).


Potential bidders at the auction of Yukos assets had until the
end of Friday to register their interest.

