

Arsenal shares hit a record high on Thursday amid rumours that
the English Premiership club will be the subject of a takeover
bid.


Arsenal were the only one of four English sides in the Champions
League this season not to be under foreign ownership.


But as rumours of an imminent takeover abound, Arsenal Holdings
PLC shares closed at a record high of 6,275 pounds (12,300
dollars) on Thursday evening.


It pushed the value of the club on the Ofex stock exchange up to
388.87 million pounds (763 million dollars).


Rumours suggest that foreign investors such as Dubai
International Capital or Russian aluminium magnate and oligarch
Oleg Deripaska are eyeing a bid for the Londoners, who this
season moved to a new 60,000-seat stadium.


"It is only speculation, although in September of last year, when
there was similar speculation, the board issued a statement to
say they were not in talks with anyone. And at this stage, this
time around, thay haven't said anything," a member of the Arsenal
Supporters' Trust told AFP.


The largest single shareholder Daniel Fiszman, a non-executive
director who holds a 24.11 percent stake, sold one percent of the
club's capital on March 15, triggering suspicions that a sale
could be in the offing.


"With no known reason as to why he's done this at this time and
in the absence of any information over who the buyer is,
naturally one tries to draw some conclusions," added the
supporters' trust source.


Alongside Fiszman, the club's other major shareholders are non
executive director Lady Nina Bracewell-Smith (15.90 percent),
vice-president David Dein (14.6 percent) and non-executive
director Richard Carr (4.38 percent).


Between the four of them they hold a 60 percent stake in the club
while television channel ITV holds almost 10 percent.


"The ITV share is definitely for sale but they're holding it for
the right price," added the source.


Of England's other big four clubs, Manchester United were bought
in 2005 by American billionnaire Malcolm Glazer for 790 million
pounds, Liverpool were bought by Americans Tom Hicks and George
Gillett in February for 174 million pounds and Chelsea were
bought by Russian billionnaire Roman Abramovich in July 2003 for
60 million pounds.

