

Gunmen on Friday kidnapped three foreign construction workers,
including a Dutch national, in two separate incidents in oil-rich
southern Nigeria, police and industry sources said.


Two industry sources said the other two victims were "Lebanese
nationals working for Cetraco", a construction company. A senior
police officer, however, said one of the men was Indian.


The Dutchman was kidnapped in Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil
capital, in the southern Rivers State.


"The man was taken early this morning around 7:00 am (0600 GMT)
from the Bilfinger Berger premises in Port Harcourt and taken to
an unknown location," Rivers police commissioner, Felix Ogbaudu,
told AFP.


Ogdaudu said the man, a security officer, "heard shooting, came
out to see what was happening and was immediately seized".


The other two foreigners were seized between 10:00 am and 11:00
am from a construction site on which they were working in
neighbouring Delta State, police commissioner Udom Ekpoudom said.


Major Musa Sagir, a spokesman for the Joint Task Force charged
with policing the Niger Delta, told AFP troops had been deployed
"to hunt for the kidnappers" responsible for the Rivers State
incident.


The foreign ministry in The Hague confirmed that the man seized
in Port Harcourt was Dutch but refused to reveal his name.


A Dutch national was killed in the region just over two months
ago when gunmen attacked a boat travelling between Port Harcourt
and the oil and gas terminal at Bonny.


No group immediately claimed responsibility for either of the
latest attacks.


The most high-profile of the separatist groups operating in the
region, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
(MEND), which has abducted dozens of people in the past, said it
was not involved this time.


These latest kidnappings bring to five the number of foreigners
currently held by armed groups in southern Nigeria.


Two Chinese nationals were abducted on March 17 in the
southeastern state of Anambra.


The previous day the last foreign hostage held in the region, a
Frenchman working for oil group Total SA, had been released after
a month in captivity.


His release came 24 hours after that of two Italians who had been
in captivity for more than three months.


But the abduction of the Chinese, who were snatched from their
factory, meant that the hostage-free situation in southern
Nigeria lasted barely 24 hours.


Since the start of this year about 60 foreigners, most of them
with links to the oil industry, have been kidnapped in Nigeria,
as many as were abducted during the whole of 2006.


The foreigners, most of whom have been released unharmed, have
been abducted by a mixture of criminal gangs out to make ransom
money and armed groups with a political agenda.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars (3.3 billion euros) last year,
according to official sources.

