

Alcohol is nearly as harmful as heroin and tobacco is more
dangerous than cannabis, LSD or ecstasy, according to a new
classification table of drugs published in The Lancet medical
journal Friday.


The table, drawn up by a group of leading British scientists,
ranked heroin, cocaine, barbiturates and street methadone as the
most harmful drugs, closely followed by alcohol in fifth place.


Tobacco was assessed to be the ninth most dangerous drug behind
ketamine -- commonly used as a horse tranquilizer --
benzodiazepines, which are prescription tranquillisers, and
amphetamines.


Cannabis was said to be the 11th most harmful. LSD was ranked
14th and so-called "clubbers' drug" ecstasy in 18th, or third
last, place.


The classifications were based on individual drugs' so-called
"harm scores" -- the physical damage to the user; how likely the
drug was to induce dependency; and the effect of its use on
families, communities and society.


Each of the three categories was split into nine categories of
risk and independent experts including psychiatrists, chemists
and forensic scientists ranked each category on a scale from 0
("no risk") to 3 ("extreme risk").


Heroin scored 2.7 on the harm scale with alcohol just under 2.
Tobacco scored 1.7 and ecstasy scored just over 1.1.


One of the scientists, Professor Colin Blakemore, the chief
executive of the government-funded public health body the Medical
Research Council, said their findings differed markedly from the
existing drugs classification in Britain.


"Alcohol and tobacco are way up there in the league table, with
alcohol being not very far behind demonised terrors of the street
like heroin," he said.


His colleague, Professor David Nutt, from the University of
Bristol, western England, said isolated cases of unpleasant and
unpredictable responses to drugs were allowed to dictate policy.


"A more scientific view is that these risks have to be assessed
against their effect on the whole population," he added.


Possessing Class A drugs like heroin, cocaine and crack, ecstasy
and LSD currently carries a maximum seven-year prison sentence;
cannabis is a Class C drug, while alcohol and tobacco are
unclassified.


Blakemore said he hoped policy makers would "take note" that
their table differed substantially from the official
classification, which a separate British study published on March
8 also criticised as inadequate.


The RSA Commission on Illegal Drugs, Communities and Public
Policy said Britain's drug laws should be replaced by a system
recognising the harm to health of substances like alcohol and
tobacco rather than crime prevention.

