

British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Friday endorsed Margaret
Thatcher's 1982 decision to send a military task force to reclaim
the Falkland islands after their invasion by Argentina.


On a podcast posted on his Downing Street website in the run-up
to the 25th anniversary of the Falklands conflict, Blair was
asked whether he would have acted in similar fashion to the "Iron
Lady" in taking back the remote British territory in the South
Atlantic Ocean by force.


"Yes, yes I am sure," he responded.


"When I look back, I mean, I was much, much younger at the time
obviously, but when I look back, yes, I have got no doubt it was
the right thing to do...


"I think there was a principle at stake which is that, you know,
a land shouldn't be annexed in that way and people shouldn't be
put under a different rule in that way," he said.


Blair also compared the conflict to Kosovo in 1999, when Britain
committed troops to a NATO force.


"There may be some parallels in what happened in Kosovo later,
although it is a different set of circumstances," he said.


"In the end, military intervention in Kosovo brought down (former
Serbian president Slobodan) Milosevic.


"And the interesting thing is that when you stand up to that type
of dictatorship... the consequences then are severe for that
dictatorship."


Kosovo was Blair's first major military deployment after becoming
prime minister in 1997.


His justification was that taking action there was also "the
right thing to do". Such reasoning has become a feature of
Blair's backing for military intervention overseas.


The Falklands War forged Thatcher's reputation as the "Iron
Lady", and this week Pathe Productions, the BBC and DJ Films said
they have commissioned a screenplay about the 17-day period it
took the former premier to send the naval task force to evict
Argentine occupation forces.


Blair, who entered parliament as a lawmaker the following year,
said "it took a lot of political courage actually to do that."


London has occupied the territory since 1833 but Buenos Aires
claims the land as its own amid failed attempts at negotiations
over sovereignty.


Following a number of unauthorised Argentine landings on South
Georgia, Argentina's forces under the military government headed
by General Leopoldo Galtieri occupied the tiny islands off its
southern coast on April 2, 1982.


Britain then sent its task force. More than 900 people died,
including 655 Argentines, 255 British troops and three Falkland
Islanders, before Argentine forces surrendered on June 14.


Argentina returned to democracy in 1983. Buenos Aires and London
restored diplomatic relations in 1990.

