

Steve McClaren has warned his England stars that they cannot
afford another below-par performance as they seek to put their
Euro 2008 qualifying campaign back on track against Israel here
on Saturday.


A goalless draw against Macedonia and defeat in Croatia in
October have left England languishing in third place in Group E
and defeat at the Ramat Gan stadium here on Saturday would
seriously compromise their chances of qualifying for next year's
finals in Austria and Switzerland.


Wins here and against group minnows Andorra in Barcelona on
Wednesday would however significantly alleviate such fears and
McClaren insisted he was confident of flying home on Wednesday
night with six points in the bag.


In a pre-match press conference liberally punctuated by the
phrase "time to deliver" McClaren acknowledged anything less than
that would be difficult to explain to the supporters who booed
England off the pitch in Croatia and after last month's friendly
defeat by Spain.


"We all realise what is expected of us," McClaren said. "We have
spoken often recently and now the talking has to stop. We have to
deliver on the pitch and we have to do it tomorrow.


"These are qualifiers. We are playing for points. The pressure is
on, the atmosphere will be intense and this is where we have to
perform.


"The players know the expectations from the fans. We have to
produce a performance they can be proud of."


McClaren's overblown rhetoric was, if anything, exceeded by his
captain, John Terry, who suggested a bit more "f-ing and
blinding" by himself and his team- mates might inject a bit more
urgency into the side's display.


The Chelsea centreback went on to admit that England's defeat and
shambolic performance in Croatia had eaten away at him over the
last five months.


"When you play an England game and lose it is so frustrating
because you can't go out straight away and put it right," he
said. "Now it is down to us to get out there and show what we can
do. It can't come round quick enough as far as I'm concerned.


"There can't be any excuses about players being tired or about
this being a tough place to come -- it's completely no excuses,
that is the way we are feeling."


Saturday's match sees Owen Hargreaves return to the England side
for the first time since he broke his leg in September, and Terry
is confident that the Bayern Munich midfielder will restore the
defensive solidity that has been missing from England's last four
performances.


"I think it is very important to have Owen back in the squad,"
Terry said. "He's certainly been missed. He plays a similar role
to (Claude) Makelele at Chelsea. Anything that gets in behind
Frank (Lampard) or Steve (Gerrard) he mops up. And if one of the
fullbacks bombs forward, he shuffles across to fill that gap."


Hargreaves returns to a midfield in which Lampard will be allowed
to get forward as he does for Chelsea while Gerrard patrols the
right-flank and the pacy Tottenham winger Aaron Lennon makes his
first England start on the left.


Andrew Johnson is to partner Wayne Rooney in attack while the
back four, missing the injured Gary Neville and suspended Ashley
Cole, will be comprised of Phil Neville, Rio Ferdinand, Terry and
Jamie Carragher.

