

A former CIA agent claims he personally buried leftist
revolutionary icon Ernesto "Che" Guevara, and challenged Cuba to
allow a DNA test to prove that the remains it interred are
Guevara's, The Miami Herald reported Friday.


Miami Cuban emigre Gustavo Villoldo, 71, a veteran of the failed
US-backed Bay of Pigs invasion, said he buried Guevara and two
colleagues in October 1967 in a pit in Vallegrande, Bolivia,
after cutting a lock of the hair of the Argentine- born Cuban
revolutionary hero.


The communist Cuban government in 1995 announced it had located
Che's remains and returned them to Cuba in 1997 for a pomp- and
parade-filled extravaganza, ending in their interment at a
mausoleum in Cuba honoring Guevara.


"In the hair, I'm sure there is a sample of Che's DNA, and I'm
willing to have it tested and compared against the remains in his
tomb in Cuba," Villoldo told the newspaper. While cooperation
from Cuba's government or Guevara's relatives seemed unlikely,
his claim stirs new debate over the final fate of one of the
Cuban Revolution's most recognizable "ambassadors."


Villoldo said he had the exact coordinates of the grave, and
would only give them to the Guevara family if they requested
them, the report said.


The medic-turned-guerrilla fighter was killed in October 1967 in
Bolivia, where he had gone to foment a leftist uprising.


US Central Intelligence Agency operatives and special forces
advisers helped organize a Bolivian military operation, as a
result of which he was captured and executed, according to
documents made available later.


But much to the dismay of the Cuban exile community, Guevara's
death turned him into a cultural icon.


A world-famous 1960 photograph of Guevara taken by Alberto Korda
captured the restless spirit of the long-haired revolutionary
after he had helped Fidel Castro topple a pro-US regime in Cuba.


Guevara appears in painter Andy Warhol's artwork, is the subject
of countless books, articles and the popular 2004 movie, "The
Motorcycle Diaries."

