

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will unveil Sunday a declaration
aimed at restoring public confidence in the future of the
European Union, as it marks the 50th birthday of its founding
treaty.


The "Berlin Declaration", prepared by EU representatives behind
closed doors, runs to two-and-a-half pages in the original German
and is written in simple language devoid of the jargon typical of
EU documents.


It is divided into three sections, with a preamble.


It praises the EU's achievements, notes its common values and
looks to the future, amid the institutional chaos caused by the
failure two years ago of the planned constitution.


It will be signed in the German capital by Merkel, whose country
holds the rotating EU presidency, European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso and European Parliament President Hans-Gert
Poettering.


Leaders of the 27 EU member countries will not add their
signatures.


A German presidency official said the main obstacle holding up
the document was its translation into the 23 official EU
languages.


The German-language draft, on which other translations are based,
seen by AFP Friday shows that the document -- which starts with
"We the citizens of the European Union ..." -- will contain the
following:


ACHIEVEMENTS


Among the successes since the signing of the Treaty of Rome on
March 25, 1957, that will be noted are peace, prosperity and
unity in Europe. It will also highlight the single market, the
euro common currency, and open borders.


VALUES


It mentions freedom, tolerance, solidarity, the rule of law and
security, as well as inalienable rights and equal opportunity, as
values that the Union aspires to.


CHALLENGES


These include preserving Europe's "social model", energy policy,
climate change and the fight against organised crime, racism and
violence.


CONSTITUTION


The EU's moribund constitution will not be explicitly mentioned,
but the text will refer to the need for the bloc to find a
settlement to its institutional woes before 2009.


It will say the Union is "united in the common goal of renewing,
in time for the 2009 European Parliamentary elections, the common
foundation on which the European Union is built."


ENLARGEMENT


The draft makes no clear reference to enlargement -- a process
that countries like France and the Netherlands see as diluting
Europe's identity, while Britain and Poland see it as an
opportunity to export democracy and prosperity. The foreign
minister of Turkey, a candidate for EU membership, has voiced
regret that none of the aspiring members have been invited to
Berlin.


RELIGION


No mention of religion will figure in the declaration, despite
pressure to have a reference to Europe's "Judeo-Christian roots".

