

The New Zealand World Cup squad have been assured by cricket's
ruling body, the ICC, that they are not now facing a greater
threat following the murder of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer.


Confirmation that the former England batsman had been strangled
to death in his hotel room on Sunday, just a day after Pakistan's
shock elimination from the World Cup, has heightened security
concerns at the event.


But Black Caps general manager Lindsay Crocker insisted Friday:
"We have been assured by the ICC we are not regarded as a target
or are in any specific danger.


"Nonetheless they have increased security across the board,"
Crocker told reporters at New Zealand's hotel here Friday.


New Zealand have qualified for the second phase of the World Cup
and are set to begin their Super Eight programme against hosts
West Indies in Antigua on Thursday.


"We are fortunate in our draw, in St Lucia first, and then on to
Antigua which are both regarded as low-risk areas," Crocker said.


"We are comfortable with the level of security around us and the
general level of risk. So I just want to assure people back home
that we are in a safe environment."


He added that the squad had received updated advice on security
Thursday.


"We talked about it yesterday and talked through this whole
thing, only briefly, an update on security. We don't feel
particularly oppressed with the security here, a lot of it is
plain clothes.


"We have team protocols about players going out in groups if they
go out beyond the secure compound where we live and they must
take security people with them."


Crocker said some of the concerns being expressed in New Zealand
arose from a lack of understanding regarding the different
islands in the Caribbean where World Cup matches are being
staged.


"Back home we regard the West Indies as one country. We are a
long way from here, people who have never been here probably
don't understand the lay of the land. We've got a fortunate draw
in where we are going and we've got security around us."


"It's been my job to try to reassure the families that we are
okay and safe," Crocker said.


Former South Africa fast bowler Allan Donald has said the World
Cup should now be called off following Woolmer's death.


But Crocker insisted New Zealand's view was that cricket's
showpiece tournament had to continue.


"The show must go on really. ICC have committed to continuation
of the event and we are also committed to fulfilling our part in
that."


Reflecting on the "further sadness and disappointment" felt
within the New Zealand camp at the announcement that Woolmer had
been murdered, Crocker said he'd been anticipating such a
development.


"Whilst it was sad to hear that final news I guess it wasn't a
huge surprise. The climate had been pointing towards that over
the last few days."

