

Pakistani cricket coach Bob Woolmer received no threats prior to
his murder, was not involved in match-fixing and nothing he wrote
can explain his killing, his family said Friday.


"To the best of the family's knowledge there is absolutely
nothing to suggest Bob was involved in match fixing," said a
statement issued by Woolmer's wife Gill and sons Dale and Russell
from Cape Town.


"Contrary to reports, we can confirm there is nothing in any book
Bob has written that would explain this situation and there were
no threats received," they added.


There has been speculation that the killing was carried out by
criminals keen to avoid exposure in claims of match-fixing which
may have arisen in a book Woolmer was planning to write.


Jamaican police earlier said Woolmer might have known the person
who strangled him in his hotel room.


"Clearly he let somebody into his hotel room and it may be that
he knew who that person was," Jamaica's deputy police
commissioner Mark Shields told BBC radio in London.


"It seems difficult to believe at this stage it was a complete
stranger."


Former England international Woolmer, 58, was found in his room
Sunday and declared dead in hospital, a day after Pakistan's
shock defeat to minnows Ireland saw the 1992 World Cup winners
crash out of this year's competition.


His family reacted with shock to the news that the "wonderful
father and husband" was murdered.


"The news from Jamaica about Bob's death is devastating. It's
very difficult for the family to come to terms with and they have
no idea why this happened," said the statement.


"He gave his life to the service of cricket and cricketers and
endeared himself to anyone who came into contact with him.


"He always had time for those who approached him, either for an
interview or for a chat."


They described Woolmer as a unique character with a "cheerful
nature, positive outlook on life and a never-give-up attitude.


"Bob would definitely have wanted the World Cup to continue."

