

Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Friday that his
government would not reverse plans to create "special economic
zones" for industrialisation despite deadly riots.


"SEZ as an instrument of economic policy has come to stay," said
the prime minister, according to the Press Trust of India.


The SEZs, modelled on a similar Chinese programme, allow
companies to set up large tax-free enclaves to spur
industrialisation and the development of infrastructure.


But the controversial scheme, launched in 2005, has met with
massive protests from those living on land earmarked for such
zones in India, where two-thirds of the billion-plus population
live off agriculture.


"In the process of implementation, we have been exposed to
certain problems which cannot be dismissed," Singh told
reporters.


Fourteen people were killed 10 days ago when police in eastern
India fired on villagers protesting against the sale of their
land for a proposed petrochemicals project involving an
Indonesian group.


The bloody demonstration was followed by a state-wide strike in
which dozens were injured, and there were renewed protests in
neighbouring states that are attempting to set up the zones.


"There have been inadequacies in compensation and in ensuring
that the interests of all stakeholders who suffer in this process
are taken into account," the prime minister said.


Singh said the government was looking at the issue of proper
compensation for those displaced, which might lead to delays in
the setting up of the zones.


There are 14 SEZs in India and proposals for hundreds more.


"These are decisions which are irreversible," the prime minister
said. "Therefore, it's very important that before we move, if
there are any gaps in the performance, gaps in the design and
gaps in the implementation, we should halt a little bit even
though it takes time."


Korean steel giant POSCO, which in 2005 decided to invest 12
billion dollars in a steel plant in the eastern state of Orissa,
India's largest foreign direct investment, said it understood the
difficulties in acquiring land.


"The project has not taken off so far mostly due to land
acquisition," said Shashanka Pattnaik, spokesman for POSCO India,
in a statement.


"Land acquisition is not an easy process. We understand that
there are many related issues and we are examining the matter
very seriously."


He denied a media report that said the company had told Indian
officials if there was no progress in the next two or three
months, it could reconsider its investment plans.


"We are not thinking of that option at all," Pattnaik told AFP
from Orissa.


Singh said the cost of going slowly in acquiring land would be
much less than the social cost India could incur if the policy
was "bulldozed (through), regardless of human, social and
economic concerns."


Analysts say India's Maoist rebels, active in many of the states
that have seen protest over the zones, could reap political
benefits from the anger of those displaced by the policy.

