

Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Salam al-Zubayi was undergoing
surgery after being wounded in a two-bomb assassination bid
outside his Baghdad home on Friday that left six guards dead.


The British defence ministry meanwhile confirmed that it was
"urgently" seeking clarifications from Iran after 15 British
sailors were detained by the Iranian navy.


Zubayi, one of the most prominent Sunni Arab leaders in the
Shiite-led government, was rushed to a US military hospital in
the fortified Green Zone after the bombers struck while he was
performing Muslim prayers.


"At 12:30 pm (0930 GMT) a suicide bomber attacked Zubayi while he
was performing his Friday prayers in a mosque within his
residential complex," Brigadier General Qassim Musawi told state
television.


"I called the hospital. He is unstable and undergoing surgery,"
added Musawi, a spokesman for a mammoth five-week-old Iraqi-US
security crackdown aimed at stemming the sectarian bloodshed
gripping the capital.


"He was admitted in a US combat hospital an hour ago," US
military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver said,
declining to provide any further details on Zubayi's condition.


An Iraqi security official said six guards were killed and
another 15 people wounded in the attack, including a child and a
brother of Zubayi -- one of two deputy prime ministers in the
disparate Iraqi government.


Iraqi security officials said Zubayi's home, office and mosque
complex was highly guarded and "cannot be accessed easily,"
giving fuel to speculation that the attack could have been an
inside job.


Prominent Kurdish member of parliament Mahmud Othman said Zubayi
was Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's deputy on a ministerial
committee for security, which was enough to make him "an
important target."


"He is a very frank and good leader and always talks his mind. He
is one of the good ones in the government," Othman said.


A number of Iraqi Shiite and Sunni politicians have suffered
assassination or kidnapping attempts in the insurgent and
sectarian bloodshed that has killed tens of thousands of their
countrymen.


On February 28, two brothers of prominent MP Saleem Abdullah al-
Juburi were killed by gunmen in a rebel stronghold north of
Baghdad.


Four days earlier, a suicide car bomber attacked a checkpoint
protecting the home of one of Iraq's most powerful Shiite
leaders, Abdel Aziz Hakim, killing at least three civilians and
wounding seven.


Insurgents have continued to launch attacks, especially car
bombings, across Baghdad despite the massive Operation Fardh al-
Qanoon (Imposing Law) security clampdown that was launched on
February 14.


The crackdown by around 90,000 troops has seen a reduction in
execution-style killings, considered the hallmark of Shiite
militias, but the high-profile bombings that are normally the
work of Sunni insurgents have raged on.


On Thursday, a rocket landed just metres (yards) from a building
where visiting UN chief Ban Ki-moon was giving a live news
conference with Maliki.


In southern Iraq, details of the incident in which the British
sailors were detained by Iranian naval personnel remained
sketchy.


"The British government is demanding the immediate and safe
return of our people and equipment," said a statement from the
defence ministry in London, adding that the sailors had been
detained after a routine boarding of a merchant ship in Iraqi
waters.


British military spokesman Major David Gell would confirm only
that "we are chasing these reports and we are aware of an
incident in the north of the Persian Gulf.


"There has been an incident there but we have no details at this
stage," he told AFP.


News reports had originally suggested that there were American
military personnel among those detained in the Shatt al-Arab
waterway close to the southern stretch of Iraq's border with
Iran.


British and US militaries have regularly accused Iran of funding
attacks on its troops in Iraq.


On Friday, Lieutenant Colonel Justin Maciejewski, commanding
officer of a British base in the southern city of Basra, told BBC
that Iranian agents are paying local Iraqis around 500 dollars a
month to attacks coalition forces.


"I have no direct proof that I can put my hand on, but I have no
reason to disbelieve what we have been told by locals here, who
are desperate for this interference in their internal affairs to
stop," he said.


Iran in turn accuses the coalition allies of fomenting violence
among the ethnic Arab minority of its sensitive southeastern oil
province of Khuzestan.

