

New Zealand pace bowler Daryl Tuffey was ruled out of the World
Cup here Friday, Black Caps general manager Lindsay Crocker told
reporters.


New Zealand now hope to replace him with Chris Martin.


Tuffey injured his right arm, which has been operated on in the
past, during New Zealand's 114-run win against Canada on Thursday
in what was his first match of the tournament.


"Yesterday, unfortunately, Daryl Tuffey injured himself during
the course of the match. Our understanding, having gone to the
doctor yesterday, is that he won't be able to take any further
part in the tournament and so we need to replace him," Crocker
said at New Zealand's hotel.


"We need to go through procedures with ICC (the International
Cricket Council) to put that into effect.


"He's not officially out of the tournament yet but we know he
can't take any further part in the tournament and we will be
looking to replace him once we get confirmation during the course
of the day."


Crocker added: "It's the same arm but a slightly different
injury.


"It's in the bicep itself rather than the attachment of the bicep
muscle to the shoulder.


"We are looking to get Chris Martin in. Hopefully, he'll be here
on Sunday but we need to confirm that with ICC first."


Tuffey's six wicket-less overs with the new ball against minnows
Canada cost 40 runs.


New Zealand also have fitness concerns regarding another of their
quick bowlers in Mark Gillespie, who hasn't played in this World
Cup because of a shoulder problem caused by a viral infection.


Gillespie has until Sunday to prove his fitness, Crocker added.


But batsman Ross Taylor, who sustained a hamstring injury making
85 against Kenya on Tuesday, will be given more time to prove his
fitness ahead of New Zealand's opening Super Eight match against
the West Indies in Antigua on Thursday.


Tuffey, 28, had a two-year gap, mainly because of injury, between
appearing against Australia in a one-day international in
Auckland in February 2005 and his return for the Chappell-Hadlee
one-day series in New Zealand last month.

