

The Security Council scrambled Friday to reach consensus on a
draft text broadening UN sanctions against Iran as the Iranian
president was granted a US visa to attend the vote expected
Saturday.


The 15-member body held another bargaining round early Friday
over imposing punitive sanctions on Tehran for refusing to halt
its sensitive nuclear fuel work.


The 15 council members were to meet again later in the day to try
to agree on an amendment requested by Indonesia and Qatar for
insertion of a paragraph on the goal of establishing a "Middle
East free from weapons of mass destruction and all missiles for
their delivery" into the draft.


Diplomats said the United States was opposed to the inclusion of
this paragraph.


The Russian delegation, however, offered compromise language
stating that "a solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would
contribute to global non- proliferation efforts, including those
in the Middle East."


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has asked to address
the Council to defend his country's right to uranium enrichment,
meanwhile, was issued a visa Friday and was expected to attend
the vote with his delegation.


But ahead of the vote, Chinese Ambassador Wang Guangya, whose
country was among the six major powers which crafted the latest
sanctions resolution, said efforts were continuing to accommodate
South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar, three non- permanent council
members still unhappy with the latest amended text.


"We have to see whether there are areas that can be improved to
get more support," he told reporters. "I want all 15 council
members on board."


Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of the draft's co-
sponsors, said Thursday the plan was to have a vote on the text
Saturday.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
text has the support of at least 12 council members.


Ahmadinejad told French television Thursday that he wanted to
present what he called "new proposals" about the Islamic
Republic's nuclear program, which the major powers fear is a
covert grab for an atomic bomb.


He called the proposed UN sanctions illegal, adding he was "not
worried" by the prospect of US strikes against his country over
the issue.


The delicate diplomatic maneuvering here was unfolding amid fears
for 15 British navy sailors seized by Iran as they were
conducting "routine" anti-smuggling checks in Iraqi waters
Friday, according to the British Ministry of Defense.


Diplomats said the incident has no bearing on the sanctions
debate here, but it comes amid rising tensions between Iran and
other countries.


Late Thursday, the Security Council members had finetuned minor
changes made to the text agreed last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus Germany.


But South Africa expressed disappointment that its suggestions
for a 90-day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political
negotiations with Tehran, to remove the weapons ban and other
financial sanctions were rejected.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


The draft resolution under consideration would ban Tehran from
exporting arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it is striving to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its program is designed to
generate electricity.

