

Some 15 sailors from a British warship were seized by Iranian
naval vessels in the Gulf on Friday, the Ministry of Defence
said, demanding their immediate release and seeking urgent
clarification from Tehran.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett summoned the Iranian
ambassador over the incident, which comes amid mounting tension
between the Islamic republic and the West over Tehran's nuclear
plans.


"The British government is demanding the immediate and safe
return of our people and equipment," the ministry said,
underlining that the sailors had been engaged in "routine" anti-
smuggling operations in Iraqi waters.


The abduction of the British servicemen came as the United
Nations Security Council prepared to vote on new sanctions aimed
at forcing Tehran to curb its nuclear programme.


In Friday's incident, which occurred about 10:30 a.m. local time,
"15 British naval personnel, engaged in routine boarding
operations of merchant shipping in Iraqi territorial waters ...
were seized by Iranian naval vessels," the defence ministry said.


The 15, from the frigate HMS Cornwall, "had completed a
successful inspection of a merchant ship when they and their two
boats were surrounded and escorted by Iranian vessels into
Iranian territorial waters," the ministry said in a statement.


"We are urgently pursuing this matter with the Iranian
authorities at the highest level and on the instructions of the
Foreign Secretary, the Iranian ambassador has been summoned to
the Foreign Office.


"The British government is demanding the immediate and safe
return of our people and equipment."


A ministry spokesman declined to give further details, but
underlined that the British navy was boarding merchant ships in
Iraqi waters in support of UN Security Council resolution 1723.


"Typically what happens is that we would send a couple of
inflatables," he said. "It was a routine boarding operation in
support of the UN resolution.


"Normally what would happen is that we have the Navy ships
monitoring vessels going in and out of the area, so we would call
them up on the radio and go through a simple list of checks and
if there's anything that's not right, they send out two boats of
naval personnel to board it.


"They check the cargo and see if the boat needs any assistance,"
he said.


It was not immediately clear exactly where the incident occurred,
but British naval boats routinely patrol the Shatt al-Arab
waterway, which divides southern Iraq from Iran, to clamp down on
cross-border smugglers.


In June 2004, six British marines and two navy sailors were
detained for three days in Iran after a routine operation. They
were paraded blindfold on television and forced to apologise for
their "mistake."


On that occasion Iran insisted that the boats -- which it has not
yet returned -- were intercepted only after they entered Iranian
waters on the Shatt al-Arab.

