

Serbia's Democrats have accepted a demand by Vojislav Kostunica
that he keeps the prime ministership in a new government on
condition they secure ministries dealing with war crimes, reports
said Friday.


The Democratic Party (DS) had made the concession after its
candidate for the role, Bozidar Djelic, was rejected by
Kostunica's party in talks to hammer out a coalition government
earlier this week, said the Blic newspaper.


President Boris Tadic's Democrats are still struggling to find a
compromise in forming a government with Kostunica's Democratic
Party of Serbia (DSS) and the G17 Plus party more than two months
since parliamentary elections.


An agreement now hinged on the acceptance by Kostunica's party
that the Democrats secure portfolios dealing with war crimes,
namely the ministries of defence and interior, said Blic.


However, "Kostunica isn't satisfied with the offer of the post of
prime minister and some meaningless ministries," the daily quoted
an unnamed source close to the talks as saying.


"On the other hand, the Democrats want to be sure that they will
have control over the new government," said the source.


"Tadic has indicated he is ready to take responsibility for
Kosovo, cooperation with The Hague and for European integration,
but the position of the DS has to be in accord with this
responsibility."


The pro-European Democrats and moderate nationalist DSS were now
unlikely to come to an agreement on forming a new coalition
government with the G17 Plus party until early next month, added
the source.


In May last year, the European Union suspended rapprochement
talks with Kostunica's outgoing government over its lack of
cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the
former Yugoslavia.


EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn earlier this week urged
Serbian politicians to establish a new cabinet that ensured "a
clear chain of command" for better cooperation with the ICTY.


The Hague-based UN tribunal is still seeking six Serbs wanted in
relation to crimes committed in the 1990s wars that shattered
Yugoslavia, most notably former Bosnian Serb general Ratko
Mladic.


The report that the Democrats had accepted Kostunica's demand to
stay on as premier was also carried by several other media
outlets on Friday including the Danas newspaper.


However, while Kostunica's cabinet had confirmed the reports, the
office of President Tadic denied there had been any such
agreement, said the private Beta news agency.


B92 television said that according to its sources in all three
parties, Serbia was closer to having repeat elections than
forming a new coalition government.


Former Serbian justice minister Vladan Batic said it would be
"political suicide" for the DS to cave in to Kostunica's demands
to remain premier because many voters had backed the party in the
hope of ousting him from the position, reported Beta.


In the January 21 elections, the Democrats came second by
securing 64 places in Serbia's 250-seat parliament, followed by
the DSS with 47 and G17 Plus with 19.


The ultra-nationalist Serbian Radical Party (SRS) garnered the
most support for a single political grouping, but fell short of a
majority with 81 seats.

