

Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Friday that his
government would not reverse plans to create 'Special Economic
Zones' for industrialisation despite deadly rioting by furious
villagers.


"SEZ as an instrument of economic policy has come to stay," the
Press Trust of India quoted him as saying.


The special economic zones (SEZ), modeled on a similar Chinese
program, allow companies to set up large tax-free enclaves in
order to spur industrialisation and the development of
infrastructure.


But the controversial programme, launched in 2005, has met with
massive protest from those living on land being earmarked for
such zones.


"In the process of implementation, we have been exposed to
certain problems which cannot be dismissed," Singh acknowledged.


Fourteen people were killed 10 days ago when police in eastern
India fired on villagers fighting against the forced sale of
their land for a proposed petrochemicals project by an Indonesian
group.


The bloody demonstration was followed by a statewide strike in
which dozens were injured, and saw renewed protests in
neighbouring states that are attempting to set up the zones.


"There have been inadequacies in compensation and in ensuring
that the interests of all stakeholders who suffer in this process
are taken into account," the prime minister was quoted as saying.


Singh said that the government was looking at the issue of proper
compensation for those displaced, which might lead to delays in
the setting up of the zones.


There are 14 SEZs in India and proposals for hundreds more.


"These are decisions which are irreversible," said the prime
minister. "Therefore, it is very important that before we move,
if there are any gaps in the performance, gaps in the design and
gaps in the implementation, we should halt a little bit even
though it takes time."


The cost of delay would be much less than the social cost India
could incur if the policy was "bulldozed, regardless of human,
social and economic concerns," he said.


Analysts have said India's Maoist rebels, active in many of the
states that have seen protest over the zones, could reap
political mileage from the anger of those displaced by the
policy.


This month's violence over the SEZs has renewed debate over
whether farmland should be used for industry in India, where some
two-thirds of the billion-plus population live off agriculture.

