

World oil prices were driven to the highest levels of the year on
Friday by news that 15 sailors from a British warship had been
seized by Iran, a key crude producer.


Crude futures found further support from weak levels of gasoline
or petrol stocks in the United States ahead of the peak-demand
driving season, starting in May when many Americans take to the
roads for holidays, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
surged to 63.68 dollars per barrel, the highest since December 8,
2006. The contract later stood at 63.02 dollars in electronic
deals, marking an increase of 52 cents from Thursday's close.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, leapt on Friday to 62.65 dollars per barrel,
last witnessed on December 22. It later stood at 62.15 dollars in
floor trading, an increase of 46 cents.


Since Monday, prices have jumped by almost six dollars in New
York and three dollars in London.


The price of oil had fallen earlier on Friday but bounced higher
after news that about 15 sailors had been seized by Iranian naval
vessels in the Gulf on Friday, according to Britain's Ministry of
Defence.


"This sort of incident, and subsequent mishandling, is just the
sort of thing that fuels concerns about a global conflagration
over oil," said Fimat analyst John Kilduff.


"It's premature to judge the seriousness of this incident, but it
is potentially explosive."


The MoD, which said that the sailors had been engaged in
"routine" anti- smuggling operations in Iraqi waters, demanded
their immediate release and sought urgent clarification from
Tehran.


Iran is the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil and is the
second-biggest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries after cartel kingpin Saudi Arabia.


The seizure of the British servicemen came as the United Nations
Security Council prepared to vote on new sanctions aimed at
forcing Tehran to curb its nuclear programme.


Industry experts fear that Iran might disrupt its crucial oil
exports if the international community punishes the Islamic
republic with economic sanctions.


Crude futures had slipped earlier on Friday as traders took
profits from big gains on Thursday amid concerns over weak US
gasoline or petrol reserves, analysts said.


The US Department of Energy revealed that US gasoline reserves
had sunk by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million in the week to
March 16. The reading was heavier than market expectations for a
dip of two million.


Gasoline is moving into focus ahead of the peak-demand driving
season, beginning May 31, when US drivers hit the roads for their
summer vacations.

