

Democratic Republic of Congo authorities charged opposition
leader Jean-Pierre Bemba with "high treason" Friday, on a second
day of clashes which reports said had killed at least seven
people.


The former vice president, who was defeated in historic
presidential elections last year, sought refuge in the South
African embassy late on Thursday after heavy fighting broke out
between members of his personal bodyguard and government troops
in the capital Kinshasa.


"The judicial authorities... have issued an arrest warrant for
high treason against Jean-Pierre Bemba," government spokesman
Toussaint Tshilombo Send told AFP.


"Bemba committed treason in using the armed forces for his own
ends," the spokesman said.


Fighting broke out between members of the DRC presidential guard
and Bemba loyalists Thursday after Bemba, also a former rebel
chief, refused a government order for his bodyguards to be
integrated into the regular army.


Light weapons fire and loud explosions from shells or mortars
were heard earlier Friday in the northern district of Gombe,
where Bemba's residence is located, AFP correspondents said.


But the district was later brought "under the control of the
Congolese army," the spokesman for the UN mission in the country
(MONUC), Lieutenant-Colonel Didier Rancher, said.


"There are still some shots in other districts but the situation
has calmed down," he added.


At least seven people have been killed in the fighting in the
past two days, UN- sponsored Radio Okapi reported Friday.


The head of the capital's General Hospital, Dieudonne Diabeno,
could not confirm any dead to AFP but said there were some 10
wounded, including three soldiers in serious condition.


A Western security official said he had seen "four or five"
bodies of Bemba loyalists near his home in Gombe, while the UN's
Rancher said "many" wounded were being evacuated.


Two French nationals have been wounded by stray bullets but their
lives are not in danger, a foreign ministry spokesman said in
Paris.


And two people were hurt when a shell struck a building across
the River Congo in Brazzaville, capital of the neighbouring Congo
republic, hospital sources said.


The Greek embassy in Kinshasa was also hit by a shell that
shattered windows and damaged the interior, but there were no
casualties, the Greek government said.


A petrol storage tank was hit by a mortar shell and exploded in
flames near Ndolo air base in Gombe, diplomatic sources said. A
thick plume of smoke was visible from more than 10 kilometres
(six miles) away.


The violence broke out mid-morning Thursday near Bemba's home,
prompting residents to flee their homes and schools.


As the clashes intensified, Bemba took shelter in the South
African embassy.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," South Africa's deputy ambassador
Kenneth Pedro told AFP.


"He didn't feel safe in his home. He wanted to be able to
continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


Bemba was elected a senator in January, a position that carries
immunity from prosecution during the term of office.


The DRC chief prosecutor, Tshimanga Mukeba, told AFP that
parliament would be approached with a request to lift Bemba's
immunity.


South Africa, which was a key contributor to the peace process in
the Democratic Republic of Congo, expressed deep concern at the
renewed violence and called for a ceasefire.


Similar calls for calm came from the European Union, Britain,
France, and Belgium. The UN peacekeeping force in DRC evacuated
more than 600 people from the area caught up in fighting
Thursday.


Tensions rose in Kinshasa after the government of President
Joseph Kabila announced last week that it intended to scale down
the military contingent protecting Bemba and another former vice-
president, Azarias Ruberwa.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice-presidents under Kabila during a post-war
transition to democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated as
president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Since his election as a senator, Bemba has refused to have his
bodyguard integrated into the regular army, arguing that his
personal security could not be guaranteed.

