

Australian all-rounder Andrew Symonds says he will survive on
adrenaline when he returns to face South Africa in Saturday's
crucial World Cup clash.


Symonds, who has been recovering from arm surgery, plays his
first match of the tournament at Warner Park with the winner
taking a crucial two extra points into the second round Super
Eights.


"I wouldn't go out there if I didn't think I could play a full
100 overs," said Symonds after team practice on Friday. "Today, I
threw very firmly with relatively no pain at all."


Although rating himself five percent short on full fitness,
Symonds said he didn't feel any restrictions in fielding.


"The only thing I haven't done is have a full game and match-
fitness is probably the only thing that is an unknown. The
adrenaline of being back out there in this competition will
probably be enough to get me through."


Symonds will replace Brad Hodge for the high-profile contest
which will decided who tops Group A.


Australian captain Ricky Ponting said: "We are approaching this
as big a game, as a semi-final or a final. Symonds is ultra-
important. He wouldn't be here if we didn't know how big a player
he's going to be for us through this World Cup."


The 31-year-old Symonds had arm surgery after hurting his bicep
during the tri- series in Australia last month.


"Hopefully I can draw on the experience that I've had. Most of my
fielding is done in the circle," said Symonds.


"I guess we're expecting a good old-fashioned Australia-South
Africa showdown. There will be no love lost. I think it's a game
that everyone is looking forward to watching. We're certainly
looking forward to playing it."


Symonds said he was happy to play against South Africa.


"It's nice to play against the stronger sides. We've had a couple
of games when we haven't been pushed or tested, so now it's
really time to see where we're at.


Symonds accepted he felt for Hodge.


"I'm feeling for him right now, because it's happened to him
before," said Symonds.


"But that's the way it goes. I spoke to him earlier and he hasn't
given up by any means. He'll just have to wait and if he gets an
opportunity, he's the perfect man to come in and take over a
batting role."


Australia team: Ricky Ponting (capt), Adam Gilchrist, Nathan
Bracken, Michael Clarke, Matthew Hayden, Brad Hogg, Michael
Hussey, Glenn McGrath, Andrew Symonds, Shaun Tait, Shane Watson.
12th man: Brad Hodge

