

South Korea's rising star Kim Yu-Na made her world championship
debut in style here Friday, leading the women's short programme
as her Japanese arch-rival Mao Asada bungled on a combination
jump.


Kim, who beat fellow 16-year-old Asada into second spot at the
Grand Prix final in December, opened with a dazzling triple-
triple combination and went on to the music of Tango de Roxanne
from the film Moulin Rouge.


Judges awarded Kim 71.95 points, her personal best, going in to
the long final event, the free programme, on Saturday.


"The high score was more than I could imagine," Kim said. "I made
no major mistake but I slightly went off balance in a spiral."


Kim, who recently hurt her tailbone in training while being
treated for disc herniation, said her back pain subsided the day
before the event.


"I could go out skating with confidence," she said. "I want to go
full out in the free, the last programme of the season, so I have
no regrets even if I make a mistake."


Japan's Miki Ando, 19, the first and only woman to land a
quadruple jump in competition, stood on 67.98 points, with
European champion Carolina Kostner of Italy third on 67.15.


Defending champion Kimmie Meissner of the United States skated a
clean programme but failed to impress the judges for big bonus
points. The 17-year-old followed in fourth spot with 64.67
points.


Asada, the youngest female skater in these championships, landed
a clean triple Lutz at the beginning of her programme but failed
to stop her rotation after a triple flip and singled a planned
triple loop in a combination.


She stood in fifth spot, 10.63 points off Kim.


Neither Kim nor Asada could compete in the Turin Olympics or the
world championships last year because they were too young.


But Asada, 20 days younger than Kim, beat then world number one
Irina Slutskaya to win the Grand Prix final in late 2005, a
premier senior event with a lower age limit, which Kim missed.
They have each won one Grand Prix event this season.


Asada saw many personal records fall. "I thought I should score a
personal best myself. I made a big mistake although I tried not
to be desperate."


But Asada promised to land her trademark triple Axel, a difficult
3.5-revolution jump practised by few women, in the free skating
and become the first to score a total of more than 200 points in
international women's events.


"I will be careful in official practice and land it tomorrow
aiming for 200 points," she said.


Kim, the first South Korean figure skater of international note,
wowed a sellout crowd of 6,800 at the Tokyo Metropolitan
Gymnasium not only with her solid jumps but also a melancholic
face and other expressions belying her age.


Ando said she was ready to try a quadruple in the free skating,
although she has not succeeded since late 2003. "A safe triple
may help me onto the podium. But it's not my goal. I will go full
out."


Kostner, 20, said she was "a lot more nervous" than when she won
her first European title in January. She said she had not been
home since then and wanted to make people in Italy happy again
with "a good result."


Meissner, who won the US national championship and the Four
Continents title after a slow start to the season, said: "I was
pretty nervous out there today. But I love doing the free and I
think I'll feel a lot better tomorrow."

