

The US House of Representatives voted for the first time Friday
to link funding for the Iraq war to a timeline for withdrawing
combat troops by August 21, 2008, defying a veto threat from
President George W. Bush.


In the latest tense drama in the escalating tussle between
Congress and Bush over Iraq, lawmakers voted 218 to 212 to
approve a 124-billion-dollar war budget, which includes the
withdrawal deadline, inserted by Democrats.


The White House did not wait for the vote to be completed before
reiterating Bush's vow to veto the measure.


"He's going to veto it because even though it provides some
funding it also puts handcuffs on generals, colonels, lieutenant
colonels, majors, captains, lieutenants, sergeants, corporals,
privates and everybody else," said White House spokesman Tony
Snow.


The president was due to make a statement at 1745 GMT.


The vote followed a passionate and sometimes bitter debate,
centering on the withdrawal deadline and Bush's plan to surge
more than 21,500 extra US troops into Iraq in a bid to quell
raging violence.


Two Republicans broke with their leaders and voted in favor of
the bill. Fourteen Democrats voted against.


The legislation funding the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
presented Republican lawmakers with a dilemma: if they opposed
the timetable plan, they risked being potrayed as voting against
a bill providing funding for American troops locked in fierce
combat.


"This war is a grotesque mistake," House speaker Nancy Pelosi
said.


"The world is watching for our decision, the American people will
not support a war without end, and neither should this Congress."


Democratic Representative John Murtha, a passionate advocate of a
US withdrawal from Iraq, said: "We are going to bring those
troops home, we are going to start changing the direction of this
great country.


"The American people in the last election sent a message, they
said we want the Iraqis to solve their own problems in Iraq," he
said, in a speech on the House floor greeted by applause and a
standing ovation by Democrats.


But Republican Minority leader John Boehner said the bill would
send a damning message about the US commitment to fighting global
terrorism.


"We are in the midst of a fight with an enemy that is not just in
Iraq, that's all over the world," he said.


The White House accused Democrats of playing politics with US
national security.


"You've got to ask yourself, why go through this long, drawn-out
exercise of going and wheeling and cajoling and trying to buy
votes within your own party when, in fact, you know it's not
going to go anywhere and the need for funding the troops is
urgent, the clock is running," Snow said.


The 124-billion-dollar emergency supplemental spending package
for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq would tie the deployment of
combat forces to strict standards for rest, equipment and
training of troops.


It also would create benchmarks that would hold the Iraqi
government accountable for progress toward self-governance and
security.


If the Iraqis fail to meet the objectives, a withdrawal of troops
would have to begin within months.


No matter how the Iraqi government performs, the bill calls for
withdrawals to begin in March 2008 and for most US combat forces
to be out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


The package passed after the Democrats overcame divisions within
their own ranks from lawmakers who were demanding an immediate
withdrawal from Iraq.


Although Bush has made clear he would veto any timetable for a
pullout, Democrats saw the bill as part of a concerted political
campaign to force the end of US involvement in Iraq and pressure
the president's Republican backers.


Separately, a Senate committee on Thursday approved its own draft
emergency war funding measure, setting a March 2008 deadline to
withdraw most US combat troops from Iraq.


The House and Senate versions must be reconciled, then the
president must sign the measure for it to become law. To override
a presidential veto, each chamber would have to secure a two-
thirds majority.


The Democratic-controlled Senate last week rejected a bid to pass
a separate binding resolution that would have called for US
troops to be pulled out of Iraq by the end of March 2008.

