

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country holds the current
European Union presidency, called for the gradual creation of a
European army, in an interview published Friday.


"We need to move closer to a common European army in the EU,"
Merkel told the top-selling daily Bild ahead of weekend
celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome which
laid the foundation for the EU.


Asked how Europe will look in another 50 years, Merkel said: "The
European Commission will have more room to manoeuvre with clearly
defined responsibilities."


But Merkel said she did not expect the emergence of a European
federal state, even in the distant future.


"We will maintain the diversity of the national states," she
said.


Asked about Merkel's comments on a European army, her spokesman
Ulrich Wilhelm stressed she was talking about long-term goals.


"There have been calls for greater integration of the (European)
armed forces for a long time," he said, adding that the scope for
action that European has in the world "depends on its unity" and
its ability to assume responsibilities.


"The chancellor wanted to express her conviction that there are
still things to do in this area in the long run. Of course we
need to move forward step by step and together ... This is not a
debate for today but for the coming decades."


A defence ministry spokeswoman noted that the EU's "battle
groups" rapid response forces, created for deployment in crisis
zones, were an example of greater military cooperation within the
bloc.


Merkel, European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso and
European Parliament president Hans-Gert Poettering are to sign on
Sunday a Berlin Declaration hailing past successes of the EU and
outlining common principles and goals in the presence of the
leaders of the other 26 member states.


The chancellor said that a European constitution was key to
eliminating the alienation that has arisen between the EU and
many of its citizens.


"A certain impatience is common because it often takes a long
time for the 27 member states to reach a consensus," she said.


"To change that we need an EU constitutional treaty to harmonise
the decision- making mechanisms with a larger EU."


The German presidency said Friday that the Berlin Declaration
will insist that member states find a solution by 2009 to the
crisis prompted by the rejection of the EU constitution by French
and Dutch voters in referendums two years ago.


Merkel said the EU was born in the postwar era with the dream of
"a common Europe after the horrible experiences of the world war
started by Hitler's Germany," she said.


"The idea of European unification is still a question of war and
peace today. We should never take peace and democracy for
granted, even if the longest period of peace in the history of
Europe has become familiar reality thanks to the European Union."


Merkel, a conservative who was raised in former communist East
Germany, said the European way of life could be summed up in one
word: tolerance.


"Our model in Europe aims for balance and community. That means,
for example, that top earners pay a higher rate of taxes and that
we have a solid social welfare system," she said.


"But we need to make sure that social security is linked to
individual freedom and responsibility. And we will have to stand
up for our values because the world is constantly changing."

