

Scientists have decoded the genome sequence of rhesus monkeys
proving they share 93 percent of man's genetic make-up which may
help research into chronic illnesses, a study said Thursday.


The unveiling of the rhesus monkey genome pattern is the third
primate DNA sequence to be completed by scientists after that of
humans and chimpanzees.


"The rhesus macaque genome helps illuminate what makes humans
different from other apes," said Richard Gibbs, director of the
Baylor College of Medicine Human Genome Sequencing Center in the
study published in the US magazine Science.


"It allows us to learn what has been added or deleted in primate
evolution from the rhesus macaque to the chimpanzee to the human.


"This sequence and its comparison to that of the human and
chimpanzee enable us to look back at history at how these species
evolved and diverged."


The human genome sequence was unveiled in 2001 after years of
research and has already begun providing clues to the evolution
of man, yielding valuable information for the treatment of such
diseases as cancer and AIDS.


"But researchers knew they would benefit by having other genomes
for comparison," said Gibbs, who heads up an international team
of 170 scientists also examining the DNA sequences of gorillas,
gibbons and marmosets.


The decoding in 2005 of the genetic make-up of man's closest
cousin, the chimpanzee, revealed that the two species share 99
percent of their genes.


Chimps diverged from humans some six million years ago, while
rhesus monkeys are relatively ancient and separated from man's
lineage some 25 million years ago, the study said.


"Before this paper, analyses of this kind had focused on human
and chimp, and they're so close that it's not interesting," said
Adam Siepel, one of the co- authors of the study.


"The macaque gives us the ability to more sensitively detect
subtle natural selection pressure."


By comparing the rhesus monkey's genes which have evolved over a
longer period of some 25 million years, scientists can learn more
about why and how genetic modifications happened.


On average the genes in humans and chimps evolved more quickly
than in other primates, while in general primates' genes evolved
faster than rodents and dogs which split off even earlier from
the evolutionary tree, the study said.


By comparing the rhesus monkey to other primates, researchers
also found nearly 200 genes which could be key players in
determining differences between them.


These genes included those responsible for hair formation, immune
response, membrance proteins and sperm-egg fusion.


Researchers speculate in the study that humans may be less hairy
than monkeys because of an ancient climate change or some shift
in what was deemed to be desirable by potential mates.


The rhesus monkey is already widely used in medical research
because of its physiological similarities to man, and has helped
understanding on the rhesus factor in blood, as well as
development of the polio vaccine.


The monkey's response to the immunodeficiency virus, which lept
from apes to man, also provides vital clues in research into
AIDS, the study said.


"The sequencing of the rhesus macaque genome, combined with the
availability of the chimp and human genomes, provide researchers
with another powerful tool to advance our understanding of human
biology in health and disease," said Francis Collins, director of
the National Genome Research Institute.


"It has become clear that comparing our genome with the genomes
of other organisms is crucial to identifying what makes the human
genome unique."

