

Algerian authorities on Thursday ordered tougher security in
cities after two suicide bomb attacks that killed at least 33
people.


Amid fears of a resurgent Al-Qaeda front in North Africa,
Interior Minister Nouredine Zerhouni said extra security forces
would be put on the streets.


But he warned that it could take "years" to capture the head of
the Al Qaeda group that claimed responsibility for Wednesday's
attacks on the government headquarters and a police station on
the main road to Algiers airport.


Those attacks came only a day after three suicide bombers blew
themselves up and a fourth was killed by police in the Moroccan
city of Casablanca.


Speaking on a tour of hospitals where Algerian victims were
taken, the minister said security precautions were "correct" but
added that "the number of gendarmes and police in our cities will
be increased."


The minister did not give numbers but said the extra security
measures were agreed at a crisis cabinet meeting held late
Wednesday by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.


The Algiers bombings were claimed by Al-Qaeda's branch in North
Africa, formerly known as the Salafist Group for Preaching and
Combat (GSPC), which published photographs of what it said were
the three bombers on the Internet.


"Whatever the name of the group, Al-Qaeda or GSPC, it doesn't
matter," commented the minister.


"The attacks signify that it is one of the last acts of people
who do not want the state to function normally."


Zerhouni said the "neutralisation" of Abdelamalek Droukdel, head
of the former GSPC, "who was responsible for this operation may
take weeks or years ... and it will depend on our ability to
remain vigilant because the Algerian people are used to peace."


The minister highlighted that operations by the army and security
services in recent months had "put out of action a few hundred
people active in terrorism, who have been killed, imprisoned or
have given themselves up."


Reinforcing the vow to get tough, Prime Minister Abdelaziz
Belkhadem insisted earlier that national elections scheduled for
May 17 would go ahead despite the attacks.


While the death toll increased from 24 to 33, of the more than
220 people injured in the explosions, Zerhouni said 57 remained
hospitalised, some in a serious condition.


Algerian newspapers compared the bombings to the September 11,
2001 attacks in the United States and the Madrid train bombings
in 2004.


"New York had September 11, Madrid had March 11 and it was
Algeria's turn on April 11 to witness the murderous madness of
the suicide bombers," said the French-language Le Jeune
Independant.


Terrorism experts warned that the attacks might signal a wider
resurgence of Islamist militancy in the region that could spread
to Tunisia, Libya and to countries further south.


"We now have a belt which extends from Morocco to Somalia," said
Magnus Ranstorp, a terrorism specialist at the Swedish National
Defence College.


"The key question is: are they going to internationalise that
even further, with action in France for example ... or actions in
Spain by Moroccans?" Ranstorp said.


Muslim countries on Thursday echoed other world leaders in
condemning what the Iranian foreign ministry described as an
"inhuman and ugly act," with Jordan's King Abdullah II denouncing
"cowardly acts that have nothing to do  with Islam".


For Algiers' residents, like Amria Abdelmoun, an official at a
state-run company, the explosions were a terrifying reminder of
the "black years of terrorism" in the 1990s.


"We were promised that they (the Islamists) would never return
and that we had witnessed the death throes of these fanatics," he
said.


At least 33 people, including about 15 Algerian security forces,
have been killed in clashes with Islamist militants this month
alone.


In Morocco meanwhile, police set up road blocks and barricades
Thursday around the Casablanca district in bid to find
accomplices of three suicide bombers who blew themselves up this
week.


Two men were arrested, including one who entered a house and
threatened to blow himself up if he was not given food, a police
source said.

