

US-led warplanes and soldiers killed 24 Taliban who were hiding
in caves in southern Afghanistan, while two Canadian troops died
in a roadside bomb blast, officials said Thursday.


Afghan and US-led coalition troops spotted a group of the
Islamist rebels on a ridge near a cave in troubled Zabul province
late Wednesday and called in jets to bomb the location, the
coalition said in a statement.


Several Taliban who survived the airstrike jumped on motorcycles
to evade the advancing troops before taking refuge in another
cave which was also destroyed by coalition aircraft, the
statement said.


"As a result of the fighting, 24 enemy fighters were killed, 14
motorcycles and two cave sites were destroyed. One weapons cache
was also recovered during a subsequent search of the caves," it
said.


Earlier a spokesman for the governor of Zabul province, Gulab
Shah Alikhil, said 35 rebels were killed in the fighting, without
explaining how the figure was confirmed.


Zabul is one of Afghanistan's most violent regions. Taliban
rebels seized control of a remote district there last week, the
latest of several rebel attempts to exert control in southern and
western parts of the country.


Separately, two Canadian soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb
near their vehicle on Wednesday, as the bodies of six of their
comrades who died days earlier in a similar attack were returning
home for burial, officials said.


The latest blast about 38 kilometres (24 miles) west of the
southern city of Kandahar -- the birthplace of the Taliban --
also wounded two soldiers, one seriously, Canadian National
Defence spokesman John Knoll said in Ottawa.


A suicide bombing of a Canadian convoy west of Kandahar wounded
10 Afghan civilians and caused minor damage to a vehicle earlier
Wednesday, Knoll said, updating the number of injured from eight.


Canada has 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan as part of the
37,000-strong International Security Assistance Force (ISAF)
contingent that is supporting the government of President Hamid
Karzai. Separately, there are around 11,000 US-led coalition
troops.


The latest casualties bring the Canadian military death toll in
Afghanistan to 53 since the start of their mission in 2002.


On April 8, Easter Sunday, Canada suffered its heaviest single-
day troop loss in 50 years with the death of six soldiers outside
Kandahar, as the nation marked the 90th anniversary of a key
World War I victory in Vimy, France.


Meanwhile, an ISAF service member died of "non-combat-related
injuries" in the northeastern province of Kunar Tuesday, a
military statement said, without giving the victim's nationality.


Local police said the soldier drowned in the flooded Kunar river.


About 1,000 people, most of them militants, have been killed in
Taliban-related violence this year, according to an AFP toll
based on official reports.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and were ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the
September 11 attacks on the United States, but have since
regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates announced Wednesday that army
soldiers would see their tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq
extended by three months in a sign that the US military is
straining to meet its commitments.

