

Pope Benedict XVI has called for reconciling faith and reason
when looking at the earth's creation, arguing that the theory of
evolution has significant gaps.


A German book published this week, "Creation and Evolution,"
records the pope's reflections in a seminar last September at his
summer palace in Castel Gandolfo outside Rome with a group of his
former students.


Benedict cites "open questions" on Darwinism and the demands they
make on followers of Church doctrine.


"Not that I want to cram dear God in those gaps -- he is too big
to find enough space in those gaps," he said.


"But it seems important to underscore that the teachings of
evolution imply questions that must be put in the category of
philosophy and go beyond natural science."


He said much of Darwinism cannot be proved because "10,000
generations cannot be brought into the laboratory."


Benedict quotes his predecessor John Paul II in saying, "The
theory of evolution is more than a hypothesis" but added that it
was also "not yet a complete, scientifically verified theory".


He is equally critical of science that excludes any mention of
the divine as of religious belief that ignores intellectual
inquiry and proven scientific findings.


"It is not a question of choosing a creationism that
fundamentally shuts out science or an evolutionary theory that
covers up its own gaps and does not want to look at the questions
that extend beyond the methodological possibilities of natural
science," he said.


"It is more about the interplay of various dimensions of reason
in which the road to faith is also opened. If you emphasise
science or philosophy between reason and faith, it is about
winning back a dimension of reason that we have lost.


"Without that, faith would be banished to a ghetto and lose its
meaning for the whole of reality and humanity."


For centuries the Roman Catholic Church rejected scientific
theories which it felt threatened its view of the creation of the
universe, and some defenders of science were branded as heretics
during the Inquisition.


The Church has recently distanced itself from some Christian
fundamentalist groups which want to ban the teaching of the
Darwinian theory of evolution.


Fundamentalist Christians insist on a literal interpretation of
the Book of Genesis in the Bible, in which God made the world in
seven days, culminating in the creation of the first two humans,
Adam and Eve.


A variation of this is called "intelligent design" which
acknowledges Charles Darwin's theory of evolution but claims that
genetic mutations are guided by God's hand rather than by what
the British biologist called the process of natural selection.

