

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming won the toss and elected to
bat against Sri Lanka in the World Cup Super Eights match at the
Grenada National Stadium here Thursday.


New Zealand, who top the Super Eights table, need just one more
win to be certain of a semi-final spot and equal their record run
of 10 straight one-day international victories.


But this match was the start of a run of three tough games that
sees them also up against South Africa and champions Australia.


The Black Caps recalled batsman Ross Taylor, who'd missed New
Zealand's last four games with a hamstring injury sustained in a
group match against Kenya, in place of Hamish Marshall.


In another change to the side that beat Ireland by 129 runs in
Guyana on Monday fast bowler Mark Gillespie, yet to play a match
in this World Cup because of a viral problem in his shoulder,
replaced off-spinner Jeetan Patel.


Sri Lanka were without fast bowler Lasith Malinga, top of the
tournament bowling averages, after he'd sustained damage to his
left ankle ligaments in training. His place was taken by Farveez
Maharoof.


In January, New Zealand and visitors Sri Lanka shared a one-day
series 2-2.


Teams


New Zealand: Peter Fulton, Stephen Fleming (capt), Ross Taylor,
Scott Styris, Craig McMillan, Jacob Oram, Brendon McCullum (wk),
Daniel Vettori, James Franklin, Shane Bond, Mark Gillespie


Sri Lanka: Upul Tharanga, Sanath Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara
(wk), Mahela Jaywardene (capt), Chamara Silva, Tillakaratne
Dilshan, Russel Arnold, Farveez Maharoof, Chaminda Vaas, Muttiah
Muralitharan, Dilhara Fernando


Umpires: Asad Rauf (PAK), Billy Doctrove (WIS)


TV umpire: Aleem Dar (PAK)


Match referee: Mike Procter (RSA)


Reserve umpire: Mark Benson (ENG)


Pitch conditions: On evidence of the match between West Indies
and South Africa here Tuesday, the pitch looks to be a good
cricket wicket with pace and bounce for the quicks but one where
batsmen can also play their shots. Likely to offer early
movement.


Weather: Chance of rain with a high of 28 degrees Centigrade.

