

Morocco has proposed an autonomy referendum in the disputed
territory of Western Sahara annexed by Rabat in the 1970s,
according to the text of a plan submitted to the UN and made
public Thursday.


"Autonomy following negotiations should be put to a referendum
involving  all concerned parties in line with the principles of
self-determination and the charters of the United Nations," a
text of the copy said.


The extract was published Thursday in the Nishane weekly and a
Moroccan official confirmed its authenticity.


The plan, submitted to UN chief Ban ki-Moon, envisages giving
locals "control over their affairs through legislative, executive
and judicial institutions" under the aegis of Moroccan
sovereignty and calls for "negotiations for a political solution
acceptable to all parties."


It says the autonomous parliament should comprise members of the
diverse tribes and be directly elected.


Agriculture, investment, trade, tourism and industry would be in
their hands but Morocco would retain the "attributes of
sovereignty" in the region with its flag, money and national
anthem.


Morocco annexed the desolate but phosphate-rich northwest African
territory after the withdrawal of the region's former colonial
power Spain and neighbour Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it
with around 300,000 Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed armed Polisario Front,
which contested Rabat's sovereignty, ending only in 1991 with a
UN-brokered ceasefire.


The Polisario Front meanwhile said it would guarantee the safety
of Moroccans in the region if the referendum led to independence.


"We are ready to negotiate with Morocco for holding a referendum
and we are ready to provide necessary guarantees for the period
following it," said Mohammed Khaddad, Polisario coordinator at
MINURSO, the UN Mission for Western Sahara.


Khaddad said there were roughly 150,000 Moroccans living in the
area as well as 130,000 troops.


US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns, who was briefed on
the proposal by a Moroccan delegation on Tuesday, has called it
"a serious and credible proposal to provide real autonomy for the
Western Sahara."


"The United States hopes Morocco's presentation of its initiative
to the United Nations will spur discussion and create an
opportunity for Morocco and the Polisario (independence movement)
to engage in direct negotiations, without preconditions, to
resolve the Western Sahara dispute," he said in a statement.

