

Swiss food giant Nestle announced Thursday it had agreed to buy
the biggest baby food maker in the United States for 5.5 billion
dollars (4.1 billion euros) in a deal that extends its global
empire.


Nestle said the all-cash deal to buy Gerber from the Swiss
pharmaceutical group Novartis would secure it the number one
position in the United States, the world's largest baby food
market, where Gerber has a 79-percent market share.


"The acquisition of Gerber is the perfect complimentary fit,"
said Nestle chief executive Peter Brabeck.


"It not only gives Nestle the leadership position in baby food,
but it also constitutes a decisive step to establish Nestle
Nutrition as the undisputed global leader in the nutrition
field," he added.


The Swiss giant is widely regarded as the world number one for
baby foods, but Gerber's dominance in the United States had
stifled Nestle's progress in the lucrative US market.


Brabeck predicted that the deal, which is due to be completed in
the second half of 2007, would boost overall sales of its keynote
nutrition division -- covering health foods, medical nutrition,
infant food and performance foods -- to 10 billion dollars.


The Vevey-based multinational had already acquired Novartis's
medical nutrition business for 2.5 billion dollars last December,
but failed to take over Gerber, a successful brand it has been
eyeing for years.


In 2006, Gerber achieved unaudited net sales of 1.6 billion
dollars with an operating income of 307 million. Nestle estimated
Thursday that those sales could reach 1.95 billion dollars in
2007.


Novartis said the sale of the US-based baby food brand completed
its divestments under a strategy to focus on its core healthcare
and pharmaceuticals business.


The Swiss pharmaceutical group's chairman and chief executive,
Daniel Vasella, emphasised that the sale was also "the right move
for Gerber, as it will become a priority business in a leading
global nutrition company."


Analysts said Novartis had been content to manage Gerber while it
was looking for a buyer, while Nestle could reinvigorate business
at the US company.


Nestle's share price fell 1.33 percent to 483.25 Swiss francs by
the close of trading on the Zurich stock exchange Thursday, while
Novartis shares were unchanged at 67.10 Swiss francs (1101 GMT).


The overall SMI index was down 0.28 percent points at 9,110.06.


Market players welcomed the deal as a positive move for both
companies, even though Nestle was seen paying a higher price than
expected.


"The 5.5 billion dollars offers an extra 10 percent to what was
last speculated by the media," one trader said.


"While the deal was widely expected, it remains a sound move for
both Novartis and Nestle," added a trader at Zuercher
Kantonalbank.


Banque Cantonale Vaudoise analysts said the deal could lead to
cost savings for Nestle of 95 million dollars by 2011.


Nestle has reportedly been keen to acquire Gerber for more than
10 years. It made an offer for the group back in 1994, but was
thwarted by Sandoz, which went on to merge with Ciba-Geigy to
create Novartis.


Gerber, based in Parsipanny, New Jersey, has a portfolio of
around 300 food products for babies, toddlers and infants as well
as a line in baby-care and life insurance.

