

The United States urged Turkey on Thursday to refrain from
launching cross- border raids against separatist guerrilla bases
in neighboring Iraq, although it agreed the rebels "need to be
dealt with."


"Turkey's army chief argued publicly earlier Thursday in favor of
a military incursion into northern Iraq to crack down on Turkish
Kurd rebels there.


"Certainly that's an option that everybody should work to avoid,"
responded State Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


McCormack urged Turkey and the leadership of the Kurdish
autonomous area of northern Iraq to pursue US-brokered
negotiations aimed at curbing the activities of the separatist
Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, which Washington and Ankara
consider a terrorist group.


"It's in their interest to come up with lasting solutions for
problems that might arise," he said. "We're lending our good
offices to that good effort," he said.


"Ideally you do not have a resort to cross-border operations. I
think that is not an appealing option," he said.


But the US spokesman went on to say it was imperative to counter
the PKK, which has has waged a bloody campaign for Kurdish self-
rule in Turkey's southeast since 1984, an insurgency that has
already claimed about 37,000 lives.


"Clearly the terrorist activities of the PKK are completely
unacceptable," he said. "They are a terrorist group and they need
to be dealt with."


McCormack spoke after Turkey's top military commander, General
Yasar Buyukanit, told a press conference: "If you ask me whether
a cross-border operation is needed, yes it is needed. It would be
useful."


The army, he said however, had not yet asked the government for
parliamentary authorisation for an incursion into Iraq.


A special US envoy, retired general Joseph Ralston, has been
trying for months to lower tensions between Turkey, a key US
military ally, and Iraqi Kurdish leaders whose support is
essential for US efforts to stabilize that country.


But the dispute has only worsened in recent weeks, when there has
also been an upsurge of fighting in Turkey between the army and
PKK units, which have left 10 soldiers and 29 rebels dead this
month.


Ankara fears that moves towards Kurdish independence in northern
Iraq could fuel the PKK's separatist campaign in southeast
Turkey.


Washington for its part is concerned that Turkey operations
against PKK bases inside northern Iraq could destabilize one of
the few relatively stable parts of the country.

