

The Vatican's ambassador to Israel said on Thursday that he would
not attend an annual Holocaust memorial next week at the Yad
Vashem memorial because of its negative portrayal of the wartime
pope.


Monsignor Antonio Franco said he would boycott the ceremony on
Sunday night at the memorial museum in Jerusalem because of a
caption that appears next to a photo of Pope Pius XII, the
pontiff during most of World War II.


"It hurts to go to Yad Vashem and see how Pius XII is presented
there," Franco said to the Italian bishops news agency SIR.


"This photo offends the entire Catholic Church," he said, adding
he had already conveyed his disapproval of the use of the picture
last year.


A Yad Vashem spokeswoman said the papal envoy "sent us a letter
last week in which he indicated that he would not participate in
the commemoration" in protest at "the way the pope is presented
in the museum."


The caption that accompanies a photo of Pope Pius XII says his
"reaction to the murder of the Jews during the Holocaust is a
matter of controversy" and that "his silence and the absence of
guidelines obliged churchmen throughout Europe to decide on their
own how to react."


In a statement, Yad Vashem said it was "shocked and disappointed"
that the envoy would not partake in the official ceremony,
normally attended by Israeli officials and foreign ambassadors to
Israel.


"This contradicts the pope's statement during his visit to Yad
Vashem regarding the importance of remembering the Holocaust and
its victims," it said.


It said the "the Holocaust museum presents the historical truth
on Pope Pius XII as is known to scholars today."


"Yad Vashem told the Vatican's representative in Israel that it
was willing to continue examining the issue, and noted that if
granted access it would gladly study the Vatican's archives from
the era of Pope Pius XII's service, to possibly learn new and
different information than what is known today."


The caption also says that "when he was elected Pope in 1939, he
shelved a letter against racism and anti-Semitism that his
predecessor had prepared. Even when reports about the murder of
Jews reached the Vatican, the Pope did not protest either
verbally or in writing.


"In December 1942, he abstained from signing the Allied
declaration condemning the extermination of the Jews. When Jews
were deported from Rome to Auschwitz, the Pope did not intervene.


"The Pope maintained his neutral position throughout the war,
with the exception of appeals to the rulers of Hungary and
Slovakia towards its end."

