

Pakistani tribesmen Thursday blamed elements in Afghanistan for a
week of fierce clashes between rival Sunni and Shiite Muslims
that have left around 50 people dead.


The development came as tribal elders arranged a shaky ceasefire
in several violence-hit areas around the curfew-bound tribal town
of Parachinar, in the Kurram tribal district which hugs the
Afghan border.


Tribesmen "have blamed extraneous forces from across the border
for the unrest," said a statement issued by the office of Ali
Muhammad Jan Aurakzai, the governor of North West Frontier
Province, which oversees affairs in the tribal region.


"The people of Kurram Agency have shown their desire to live in
mutual peace and harmony without being exploited by vested
interests," the statement quoted Aurakzai as telling a joint
delegation of Shia and Sunni elders.


Shiites account for about 20 per cent of Pakistan's 160 million-
strong, Sunni- dominated population, but are in the majority in
Parachinar.


Separately Arbab Arif, a top official dealing with security in
the tribal areas, gave a toll of 49 dead and 115 injured in the
fighting in the past week.


"The law and order situation has been restored to some extent,"
he said, adding that in some areas there were slight violations
of the ceasefire imposed by security forces and tribal elders.


Security officials speaking on condition of anonymity said
earlier that the toll was 55, with 15 of those deaths occurring
on Wednesday.


Residents said at least 40 houses were torched in Jalime and Char
Dewar villages, on the outskirts of Parachinar, on Wednesday.
Women and children fled to the nearby town of Alizai, they said.


The fighting erupted on April 5 after members of the Shiite
community protested outside their mosque against local Sunnis,
who allegedly chanted anti-Shiite slogans during a religious
rally early this month.


Parachinar, which has a population of about 70,000 people, has
remained under curfew since then, and soldiers patrolling the
town have been given shoot-on- sight orders to curb the violence.


Sectarian violence involving Sunni and Shiites has claimed more
than 4,000 lives since the late 1980s.

