

EU plans to cap the price operators can charge mobile phone users
while abroad cleared a key hurdle on Thursday when a panel in the
European Parliament backed the package.


Despite fierce lobbying from mobile phone operators, the
parliament's industry committee massively supported plans to cap
the price of calls made abroad in the EU at 40 cents per minute
and 15 cents for calls received abroad.


The committee's backing sets the stage for a vote before the full
parliament in a plenary session on May 10 in Brussels and a final
decision by EU telecoms ministers on June 7 in Luxembourg.


The bill's rapporteur, Austrian conservative Paul Ruedig, said:
"We are sending a very clear message to the consumers and telecom
operators. It's a good basis for our deliberations."


The plans as adopted by the panel go even farther in the favour
of consumers than original propositions from the European
Commission, which had proposed a 44-cent ceiling on outgoing
calls made abroad in the EU and a 15-cent cap on incoming calls.


The EU's executive arm hopes to see so-called roaming charges
fall by as much as 70 percent, thanks to its plans to cap what
operators charge customers at the retail level and what they
charge each other at the wholesale level.


The Commission drew up the plans to regulate roaming rates last
year after finding evidence of huge variations between operators'
prices with roaming calls costing some times up to six times
those of local mobile calls.


EU Telecoms Commissioner Viviane Reding, who has led the drive
for regulation of roaming rates, hailed the committee's support
for her plans as "very good news for Europe's consumers."


The BEUC European consumers association said that while the plans
"go in the right direction", the price caps "are still too high
and should be readjusted based on real costs."


Reding is aiming for the package to go into effect in summer so
consumers can benefit from lower prices during the holidays
abroad, although some EU lawmakers have said its application
might not come until the autumn.


"In view of the emerging consensus on the new rules, an early
entry into force of the EU roaming regulation is now a very
realistic possibility," she added.


The package has the industry, which argues that fierce
competition has already driven down prices, up in arms and it has
been lobbying hard to get the plans watered down.


The GSMA trade association said that "retail price regulation is
inappropriate and unprecedented on the basis of the principles of
a market economy."


It charged that the plans "will force European mobile operators
to offer roaming services at below cost and give them no scope to
compete with each other on price and on new services."


The organisation has been lobbying for a ceiling of at least 65
cents for outgoing calls abroad and 35 cents for incoming calls.


With roaming charges generating on average 10 percent of
operators revenues, Reding acknowledged that the regulations
would prove to be painful for operators and would probably
provoke a "correction" in the share prices.

