

Turkey's army chief pushed for a military incursion into northern
Iraq on Thursday to crack down on Turkish Kurd rebels he said had
sought refuge there.


"If you ask me whether a cross-border operation is needed, yes it
is needed. It would be useful," chief of the general staff
General Yasar Buyukanit told a rare press conference.


"But there is a second dimension to that: it requires a political
decision," he said. "If the armed forces are given this mission,
they are strong enough to carry out such operations."


The army, he said however, had not yet asked the government for
parliamentary authorisation for a cross-border operation.


Buyukanit's comments are the latest in a series of official
Turkish statements that have ratcheted up the pressure on
neighbouring Iraq over the presence of Kurdish rebels in the
north of the country.


On Wednesday, Turkey called on Iraq to take "urgent" measures
against the rebels, who Ankara says enjoy unrestricted movement
in the region and are able to obtain weapons and explosives for
cross-border attacks on Turkish targets.


It has accused Iraqi Kurds of tolerating, and even supporting the
rebels.


The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has waged a bloody campaign
for Kurdish self- rule in Turkey's southeast since 1984, an
insurgency that has already claimed about 37,000 lives.


There was a period of relative calm betwen 1999 and 2004 but
since then the situation has gradually deteriorated.


Washington has warned Ankara against carrying out raids against
the PKK in Iraq, fearing they will destabilise one of the sole
relatively calm areas in that country.


Earlier this week sharp words were exchanged between Ankara and
Iraq over remarks made by Massud Barzani, the head of the
autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq.


Barzani suggested Iraqi Kurds would fan unrest among Turkish
Kurds if Ankara continued to oppose their ambitions to attach the
oil-rich ethnically volatile Iraqi city of Kirkuk to their
enclave.


The row was ended with an apology from Iraq's President Jalal
Talabani, himself a Kurd.


Buyukanit said Barzani's region had become a "protection zone"
for the PKK, where rebels enjoy "great freedom," conduct military
training and receive "logistical support."


"The PKK has now taken root in northern Iraq, because not even a
single member of the Iraqi security forces is present there," he
added, highlighting concerns that the Kurdish region is slipping
out of Baghdad's control.


Ankara fears that Kurdish independence in Iraq could fuel the
PKK's separatist campaign in southeast Turkey.


Buyukanit also said the army had launched "large-scale"
operations to pursue the PKK in Turkey with the advent of spring,
which is the time when the rebels usually step up attacks.


"Large-scale operations are currently under way in several
regions," he said, adding that 10 soldiers and 29 PKK rebels have
been killed this month.

