

NATO allies with troops deployed in southern Afghanistan met
Thursday in Quebec to discuss ways to confront a Taliban
offensive which has already dealt Canada its worst military
losses in half a century.


"The participants at the working meeting will share best
practices and explore ways to enhance working relationships among
Regional Command South countries under the guidance of ISAF,"
Defense Minister Gordon O'Connor said.


A spokesman for the minister told AFP the closed-door talks are
meant simply to ensure "cohesion in the International Security
Assistance Force's efforts against the Taliban."


The ISAF members with troops in volatile southern Afghanistan
include Australia, Britain, Denmark, Estonia, Netherlands,
Romania, the United States as well as Canada.


Each has sent representatives to Quebec City for the informal
talks, ahead of an expected Taliban spring offensive in
Afghanistan.


The talks come as two more NATO soldiers were killed Thursday in
separate explosions in Afghanistan, taking the number of foreign
soldiers killed in the country to 11 in less than a week, ISAF
said.


Local media, citing US officials, reported that US Defense
Secretary Robert Gates would press the group to send more
supplies to Afghanistan, but Washington would not likely commit
more troops or equipment.


"We are not expecting to put down any additional offers on the
table," a US official told reporters.


Gates announced Wednesday that army soldiers would see their
tours of duty in Afghanistan extended by three months to 15
months instead of 12 in a sign the US military is straining to
meet its commitments.


Australia also said Wednesday it would double its deployment,
while Canada's chief of defense staff Rick Hillier is expected to
announce the purchase of new tanks Thursday afternoon to send to
Afghanistan.


Canada has deployed 2,500 soldiers in southern Afghanistan as
part of the 37,000-strong ISAF contingent that is supporting the
government of President Hamid Karzai. Separately there are around
11,000 US-led coalition troops.


NATO commanders have requested additional troops and armaments.
But the alliance's response has been timid. NATO needs more
aircraft, medical equipment and military trainers, and financial
aid to reconstruct the war-torn country.


Canadian, US and British officials have also lamented that
caveats by some countries restrict the alliance's ability to
deploy in war zones, but to no avail.


The NATO talks inside the walls of Quebec City's ancient citadel
come days after Canada suffered its heaviest single-day troop
loss in 50 years.


On April 8, Easter Sunday, six Canadian soldiers were killed
outside southern Kandahar. On Wednesday two more Canadian
soldiers were killed and three were injured in two separate
roadside bombings near their vehicles west of Kandahar City, the
birthplace of the Taliban.


The fundamentalist Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and were ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the
September 11 attacks on the United States, but have since
regrouped to lead a bloody insurgency.


Late Wednesday, 35 Islamist Taliban fighters were killed in
fierce fighting with Afghan and US-led troops in troubled Zabul
province, Afghan officials said.


Four Afghan soldiers were also killed and nearly two dozen
wounded in the province after being ambushed by Taliban
insurgents on Monday.


"It's the commencement of the Taliban's incursion into our
territories, at least the territory that we are occupying and
which we want to make safe," former Canadian National Defense
director Michel Drapeau told CBC.


"They are now going to start giving us trouble ... with murderous
results."


The latest casualties bring the Canadian military death toll in
Afghanistan to 53 since the start of their mission in 2002.


Around 1,000 people, the majority of them militants, have been
killed in Taliban-related violence this year. Last year was the
bloodiest since 2001 with almost 4,000 dead.

