

Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai expressed optimism
Thursday about planned talks between his party and President
Robert Mugabe's government to end the crisis in the country.


"This crisis is going to be resolved through negotiations,"
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Tsvangirai told a
news conference in the capital Harare.


"And ZANU-PF and MDC will sit down and negotiate under the
tutelage and under the facilitation of (South African) President
(Thabo) Mbeki."


Zimbabwe's political crisis deteriorated even further last month
when state security agents assaulted Tsvangirai and scores of
supporters and shot dead an opposition activist as they broke up
an anti-government rally.


Tsvangirai said of the planned talks: "Things are moving. We want
to see how President Mbeki is going to successfully resolve this
crisis and we wish him well."


He confirmed receiving a letter from Mbeki on the planned talks
but declined to elaborate on the correspondence.


Mbeki was last month tasked by the Southern African Development
Community to broker talks between Mugabe's Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-FP) and the MDC.


"If he (Mugabe) is going to defy, let him defy the whole Southern
African Development Community, let him defy the whole world and
let him defy President Mbeki and it's up to President Mbeki to
deal with that situation," said Tsvangirai.


"It's not in our realm."


Tsvangirai deplored the government crackdown on the opposition,
which he said had seen the arrest and abduction of at least 600
supporters.


But he vowed his party would press on with a campaign to demand
political and constitutional reforms under the banner of a
coalition of church and rights groups.


"Despite this violence and assault, our resolve is not shaken and
we will pursue vigorously the quest for democratic change in
Zimbabwe."


Scores of opposition activists have been detained and allegedly
tortured in the last few weeks, most of them after being accused
of firebombing stores and police stations.


The MDC has posed the stiffest challenge to Mugabe, in power
since independence from Britain in 1980.

