

Turkey's new president should be wholeheartedly committed to the
secular order in the mainly Muslim country, army chief Yasar
Buyukanit said Thursday in his first comments on upcoming
presidential elections.


"We want to underline our hope that the parliament will elect a
president who adheres in earnest, and not just in words, to the
basic principles of the republic and the ideal of a secular,
democratic state," Buyukanit told a rare press conference here.


Asked whether he had doubt that someone not meeting this
description could get the post, Buyukanit said "No," and refused
to answer further questions.


His remarks came amid a mounting debate on whether Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a former Islamist, will run in next month's
elections, a prospect that has sparked objections by secularists
and raised tensions in Ankara.


Erdogan says he has disowned his Islamist past and now describes
himself as a "conservative democrat", but the secular elite
suspects he still has a secret Islamist agenda.


The Turkish army sees itself as the self-appointed guardians of
the secular system and, in 1997, forced the resignation of the
country's first Islamist-led government.


The president is elected for a single seven-year term by the
550-member parliament, where Erdogan's Justice and Development
Party (AKP) -- born out of a now defunct Islamist party -- holds
a two-thirds majority that will allow it to easily elect the
candidate of its choice.


The main opposition center-left Republican People's Party
describes the presidency as the "last stronghold" of secularism
and accuses the AKP of seeking to seize it to advance its
Islamist ambitions.


The influential military, the academic elite and the judiciary
are also mistrustful of the AKP.


The election, which can run to four rounds, should be completed
on May 15 at the latest, but a detailed timetable has yet to be
fixed. Parliament will begin collecting candidacy applications on
April 16.


No party has so far announced a candidate.


Pro-secular civic groups have called a rally in Ankara next
Saturday to protest against Erdogan's purported intention to
succeed President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a staunch secularist who
has often clashed with the government.


Along with largely ceremonial duties, the president has a one-
time right to reject bills passed by parliament and the final
word on appointing senior government officials.


Sezer, a former senior judge, has often sent back to parliament
laws he considered breaches of secularism and blocked the
appointment of officials he saw as Islamist government cronies.

