

The head of an army of blue-collar lunch delivery workers in
India's financial hub Mumbai turned management guru Thursday,
teaching future business leaders about efficiency.


The 5,000-strong army of "dabbawallas," a century-old service,
has long been studied by business schools around their world as a
model for their great time management and organisation skills.


In a lecture to business students Raghunath Medge, head of the
Bombay Tiffin Box Supply Charity Trust, which represents the
dabbawallas, said public transport was crucial to delivering
thousands of piping hot lunches to the right people at the right
time.


"We would not have been able to survive without local railways,"
he said.


Using the Mumbai commuter rail, lunchbox carriers dressed in
traditional "dhotis," a sort of sarong for men, pick up hot food
from homes and deliver it to some 200,000 hungry office workers
just in time for lunch.


Medge's lecture, titled "The Magic of Dabbawallas: Redefining Six
Sigma," sought to impart time management and organisation
strategies to the students of the Sri Sri Institute of Management
Studies in Margao.


The title refers to a rating conferred on them by business
magazine Forbes, which means they have an error rate as low as
one per one million deliveries and puts them in the league of
companies like General Electric and Motorola.


"Proper time management is our key to success. We do everything
to keep the customer happy and they help in our marketing," Medge
told the business students.


The service costs about 300 rupees (seven dollars) a month and
dabbawallas say their number of customers increases by about 10
percent a year.


The dabbawallas carry the meals daily across Mumbai using trains,
handcarts and bicycles, employing a complex colour-coded system
to deliver and retrieve the lunch boxes.


Their system also uses a 10-digit alphanumeric code to track the
deliveries, in the manner of shipping companies.


Prince Charles, the heir to the British throne, is an admirer of
the dabbawallas and invited two of them to his wedding to Camilla
Parker Bowles in England in 2005 after the lunch runners' trust
sent the couple wedding presents.

