

US Senator Barack Obama beat Hillary Clinton into fifth place in
an Internet poll released Thursday of who was considered the best
presidential candidate to lead the country out of Iraq.


Obama came top of the polls organized by the left wing anti-war
group MoveOn.org after what was billed as a virtual town hall
meeting held with the top Democratic Party candidates late
Tuesday.


According to the results of the poll, 27.87 percent of those who
voted believed Obama, a rising Democratic star, would be the best
to lead the US out of Iraq. Obama has already called for the US
troops to be withdrawn by March 31, 2008.


He was closely followed at 24.84 percent by John Edwards, who has
urged Congress to cut of funding for the war, now in its fifth
year and which has claimed the lives of more than 3,200 US
soldiers.


But perhaps the most surprising result was Clinton, currently
considered the Democratic favorite, who trailed in at fifth place
with 10.70 percent of the vote among the 43,000 MoveOn members
who listened into the debate.


Clinton has been heavily criticized for backing the war during a
Congress vote in 2002, and has now pledged that if President
George W. Bush doesn't end the war, she will.


The town hall meeting is a staple of US presidential politics in
which candidates interact with ordinary Americans, but MoveOn.org
has taken the tradition online in the first of three virtual
forums.


Senators Joe Biden and Chris Dodd, along with Representative
Dennis Kucinich and New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, also
took part in the debate in which the candidates could be heard
but not seen.


Kucinich, who is made little impact so far on the national
opinion polls, came in third in Thursday's results with 17.18
percent, followed by Richardson with 12.26 percent.


MoveOn.org is the brainchild of two Silicon Valley entrepreneurs
who founded the group in September 1998 out of frustration and
anger at the attention paid to the sex-and-lies scandal
surrounding then-president Bill Clinton.


The group, which has 3.3 million members, said it would hold two
other virtual town halls, on health care and global warming.


The results were different among MoveOn members who listened to
the debate at one of the 1,000 house parties organized for the
event.


Here Edwards came out top with 24.5 percent, followed by
Richardson and Obama. Clinton dropped to sixth place with just
7.7 percent of the vote.

