

New York officials broke ground on the city's first new subway
line in 70 years Thursday, in what promises to be a state-of-the-
art addition to an otherwise creaking and aging system.


Plans for a Second Avenue line have been beset with difficulties
since proposals first arose in the 1920s, but officials are
adamant that after several false starts, the project will not be
derailed this time around.


"Today's groundbreaking is the real deal," said Elliot Sander,
director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority that runs
the subway, at a ceremony deep under the streets of uptown
Manhattan.


"We have so much to celebrate today," added Congresswoman Carolyn
Maloney.


"For over 80 years there have been many starts and stops, big
plans and cancellations and numerous jokes, but today the Second
Avenue subway is moving forward and it will not turn back," she
said.


The project will eventually link Harlem in the north of Manhattan
to the southern tip of the island. The aim is to reduce
overcrowding on other lines and to improve connections to the
Lower East Side of New York especially.


Transport authorities are mulling plans to introduce sleek glass
screens along the length of the platforms on the new line, as is
the case on certain lines in cities such as London, Paris and
Hong Kong.


Artist impressions of the new line are a far cry from the run-
down older sections of the subway, much of which dates back more
than a century.


The 24-hour subway system transports some five million people a
day at comparatively reasonable fares, but stations in particular
have suffered from years of neglect and lack of investment.


While the first stage of the project is tentatively due to be
ready by 2013, the entire 13.5-kilometer (8.5-mile) line is not
expected to open before 2020.


The mammoth engineering project involves creating 16 new
stations, boring tunnels under long stretches of eastern
Manhattan and will see several properties demolished to make way
for vents and emergency exits.


Plans for a Second Avenue line go back to 1929 but were abandoned
during the Great Depression. Proposals were revived in the 1940s
and authorities even held a groundbreaking ceremony in 1972
before a financial crisis again halted work.


The fact that unveiling plans for the new line has in the past
coincided with financial crises has not escaped the attention of
many, with some labeling the phenomenon "The curse of Second
Avenue."


"New York's odd record of trumpeting plans for the Second Avenue
subway just as we're on the cusp of economic, financial, and/or
fiscal turmoil actually makes perfect sense," the New York Post
recently wrote.


"Just as cabbies giving stock tips is a sign that speculation has
run wild, so too are grand schemes from politicians a sign of
unrealistic political optimism," it said.


Many have questioned the need and expense of a new line, with the
budget for the first phase of construction alone running to
nearly four billion dollars.


If it does go ahead as planned, the project will be the first
completely new line on the New York subway system since 1936.

