

An Ohio man has been accused of helping to train fellow Al-Qaeda
agents to carry out bombings in Europe and the United States, US
officials said Thursday.


Christopher Paul, 43, was indicted Wednesday on charges of
providing material support to terrorists and conspiring to use
weapons of mass destruction.


The indictment said Paul traveled to Germany in 1999 to provide
explosives training and help recruit Al-Qaeda agents and began
researching commercial flight simulator programs as well as
remote-controlled boats and helicopters in 2006.


It also detailed a store of terrorism tools he kept in his home
and that of his father, including a laser range finder, night
vision scope, remote control items and books with titles such as
"Guerilla's Arsenal: Advanced Techniques for Making Explosives
and Time-Delay Bombs" and "Deathrap! Improvised Booby Trap
Devices."


"The indictment of Christopher Paul paints a disturbing picture
of an American who traveled overseas to train as a violent
jihadist, joined the ranks of Al- Qaeda, and provided military
instruction and support to radical cohorts both here and abroad,"
said Assistant Attorney General Wainstein.


"Our persistence and determination in the pursuit of this case
should serve as a strong warning to any American who considers
joining forces with our enemy."


The indictment paints a narrow sketch of Paul's life as he
repeatedly changed his name and traveled to Pakistan,
Afghanistan, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and Croatia in his
pursuit of "violent jihad."


Paul, who was born in Columbus, Ohio with the name Paul Kenyatta
Laws, first traveled to Pakistan and Afghanistan in 1990 with the
aim of "obtaining military-type training at a terrorist training
camp and to further the purpose of violent jihad," the indictment
said.


While there, he professed his willingness to kill people and
destroy property and voiced anger at the fact that Al-Qaeda
"would even consider scaling back military operations," the
14-page indictment said.


He trained in the "use of assault rifles, grenades, rocket-
propelled grenades, small unit tactics and hand-to-hand combat"
and was selected for "advanced training in map reading, climbing,
rappelling, military history and explosive devices."


After completing his training, he returned to Ohio and taught
martial arts at a mosque for a while before traveling to Eastern
Europe.


When he returned to Ohio, Paul and some of his co-conspirators
had screening of videos meant to entice people to commit violent
jihad and conducted training operations in a state park.


He also sent a number of packages to his "brothers" in Germany
and Turkey, including a currency verifier which is used to make
fraudulent documents, a night vision scope, and an old but still
valid US passport.


Paul was arrested Wednesday. He faces a maximum penalty of life
in prison.

