

Poland's sports chief said on Thursday that he was "very
confident" the country's joint bid with Ukraine to hold Euro 2012
would win the race, despite political crisis, corruption and
jitters about transport links and match venues.


UEFA will choose the hosts of the European football championships
at an April 18 meeting in the Welsh capital Cardiff, and the
Polish-Ukrainian camp are trying to calm concerns and make sure
they beat rival joint bidders Hungary and Croatia, as well as
Italy.


"We may not have as much experience as the Italians. And unlike
Hungary, which is a candidate for the third time, this is our
first bid. But we have a chance. I'm very confident," Sports
Minister Tomasz Lipiec told AFP.


"We have plenty of advantages. We are extremely determined and we
represent a market of almost 100 million people. UEFA sees the
championships as a business, and that could count in our favour
against the bid by the Hungarians and Croats," whose combined
population is some 15 million, Lipiec said.


Lipiec played down the potential impact of the bitter political
crisis in neighbouring Ukraine, where supporters of the prime
minister and president are facing off after the latter dissolved
parliament.


"The events in Kiev certainly don't help us, but there's no need
to panic. Ukraine will have democratic elections and the
situation will rapidly become stable again," he said.


He also said he saw a silver lining to the corruption scandal
which has badly dented the image of Polish football.


"The fact that we have launched an anti-corruption campaign can
only work in our favour," he said.


Poland has been gripped by a two-year-old match-fixing scandal
which has led to more than 60 arrests, including several
referees, a member of the Polish Football Association (PZPN)
leadership and a string of club officials.


The scandal has led the PZPN to suspend two corruption-tainted
clubs, Arka Gdynia and Gornik Leczna, from the first division, as
part of a wider government-speared crackdown on graft.


"You can also talk about unstable governments in Italy, as well
as corruption in football. Plus they have a hooligan problem,"
said Lipiec.


"Hungary also has political stability issues, while there's a
problem with stadium security in Croatia," he added.


Infrastructure is also seen as a weak link in the Polish-
Ukrainian bid.


But Polish Transport Minister Jerzy Polaczek countered that
around 26 billion euros (35 billion dollars) is guaranteed to
help fit the bill, thanks mostly to a European Union finance
package for Poland which runs until 2013.


"Road, rail and air projects will get more than 19 billion
euros," which will be topped up with Polish government money,
Polaczek said at a joint press conference with Lipiec.


"Giving us Euro 2012 would make us step up these projects," he
added.


Polaczek noted that the Polish government had already decided to
speed up construction of the new A4 motorway linking Germany to
Ukraine via southern Poland, so that it would be ready for 2012
rather than the original 2015.


Critics of the Polish-Ukrainian bid point to the vast distances
between the planned venues in the two countries.


Around 2,000 kilometres (1,240 miles) separate Gdansk, in
northern Poland, from Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine, for example.


Only 23 kilometres (14 miles) of that is motorway, and the road
journey currently takes around 22 hours.

