

South Africa's key lending rate is to remain unchanged at 9.0
percent despite inflationary pressures, central bank governor
Tito Mboweni announced on Thursday.


"The monetary policy committee has decided that despite the
slight deterioration in the inflation outlook, an unchanged
monetary policy stance continues to be appropriate for now,"
Mboweni told reporters.


"The repo rate will therefore remain at nine percent per annum,"
he added after a meeting of the committee in the capital
Pretoria.


Economists expected the repo rate to remain the same despite
mounting oil prices, the effects of drought which have driven up
the price of basic food, and the impact of a weaker rand.


Mboweni singled out the risk posed by oil and food prices which
affected the deterioration in inflation outlook but said economic
growth, "estimated to be slightly above potential", was helping.


"The less favourable outlook has been brought about primarily by
petrol and food prices increase. Domestic demand pressures and
credit extensions have remained strong with only tentative signs
of moderation in response to the tighter monetary policy stance,"
he said


"At the same time the South African economy has been growing at a
robust pace and employment growth has also been encouraging.
Domestic growth prospects remain positive despite the temporary
sell-off in the international markets in the late February."


Mboweni said economic growth was likely to remain at its current
level throughout the year.


The Reserve Bank has in the past eight months increased rates
four times by a total of 200 basis points, in an attempt to curb
spending and inflation.


But Mboweni admitted that credit extension still remained
uncomfortably high at 26.12 percent in February.


The governor said that despite the tighter monetary stance,
growth in household spending, at almost eight percent in the
fourth quarter of 2006, continued to fuel inflation.


Economists at Standard Bank meanwhile pointed to the "large
current account deficit, continued bouyancy in the household
sector's borrowing" and fears that food and oil prices would rise
even higher.


"We believe that an inflation spike ... could materialise over
next few months, but that inflation will resume its downward
trend after that," the bank said.

