

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz, struggling with an anti-
corruption drive at the global organization, now finds himself in
the eye of the storm about playing favorites himself.


The 63-year-old former Bush administration official is now
fighting for his own survival at the helm of the global lender
amid mounting questions about big pay hikes given a World Bank
staffer who is also his girlfriend.


Since being named bank president two years ago, Wolfowitz has
faced resistance as he tried to mount an effort to root out graft
at the bank, which lends some 18 to 20 billion dollars a year
around the world.


The former deputy US defense secretary, known as a key architect
of the US invasion of Iraq in 2003, has been thrown on the
defensive over an employment package worth nearly 200,000 dollars
given by the World Bank to his Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told
journalists as he kicked off the spring meetings of the World
Bank and International Monetary Fund.


The comments came after the Financial Times, citing sources at
the bank, said Wolfowitz personally ordered the hefty pay rise
for his girlfriend.


It cited two people who had seen a memo from Wolfowitz to the
bank's head of human resources spelling out the terms of the pay
hike.


Under the deal, Riza was also promoted and eventually assigned to
the US State Department, and paid more than even US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice.


The furor that has erupted after details of Riza's pay became
public threatens to overshadow this weekend's annual spring
meeting of the World Bank and has raised questions about
Wolfowitz's future at the bank's helm.


It also comes with Wolfowitz waging a public and occasionally
unpopular campaign against corruption in World Bank lending.


Wolfowitz has been forced to backtrack from initial plans to
bypass national governments more, in a bid to ensure that aid
gets to the poor.


According to a Fox News report, some of the World Bank's biggest
borrowers such as China and India are now threatening to go
elsewhere for funds, which would undermine the bank's very reason
for existence.


Wolfowitz has been bound up with US foreign and defense policy
for most of his career, rather than economic development that is
the traditional mission of World Bank presidents.


Born on December 22, 1943 in New York, Wolfowitz was a
mathematician by training and secured a doctorate in political
science from the University of Chicago.


His main experience in development issues was as the US
ambassador to Indonesia from 1986 to 1989 where according to his
official Pentagon biography he was a tough negotiator on
intellectual property rights and an advocate of political
openness.


Before that, he had worked at the Defense and State departments,
where in charge of Asian affairs in the early 1980s he played a
key role nurturing democracy in the Philippines after the
downfall of the Marcos dictatorship in 1986.


On returning from Jakarta, Wolfowitz rejoined the Pentagon as an
assistant secretary of defence as the United States started to
redefine its military policy after the end of the Cold War in
Europe.


He also helped coordinate the US response to the Iraqi invasion
of Kuwait in 1990 and the Gulf War that followed.


During Bill Clinton's presidency, Wolfowitz returned to academia,
teaching a course on security at the National War College in
Washington.


He became defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld's deputy in the
Republican administration that took power in 2001.


He has defended the US plan to invade Iraq but his position has
made him a target of critics such as film director Michael Moore
in his award winning movie "Fahrenheit 9/11."

