

European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the euro
bank would closely monitor wage deals around the single currency
area in case sharp increases in pay fuelled inflationary
expectations.


Responding to a call by the European Trade Union Confederation
(ETUC) earlier on Thursday that the ECB should not "meddle" in
the current round of wage negotiations across the euro area,
Trichet said that bank would monitor the talks "with particular
attention."


"Stronger than currently expected wage developments could pose
significant upward risks to price stability, not least in view of
the favourable momentum in labour markets observed over the past
few quarters," the Frenchman told a news conference here.


"It is therefore crucial that the social partners continue to
meet their responsibilities," Trichet said.


"In this context, wage agreements should take into account price
competitiveness positions, the still high level of unemployment
in many economies, as well as productivity developments."


In a newspaper interview on Thursday, ETUC deputy general
secretary Reiner Hoffmann had urged the ECB not to interfere in
wage talks, rejecting the argument that high wage increases could
fuel inflation in the single currency area.


"The ECB should stop meddling in wage talks," Hoffmann told the
daily Frankfurter Rundschau.


Wage policy did not represent any inflationary threat in Europe,
he insisted.


"Company profits have risen meteorically, but not workers'
income," Hoffmann said.


In Germany in particular, "there is a lot of catching up to do"
for workers to participate in the economic upturn, he added.


The ECB, known as the guardian of the euro, has repeatedly urged
for wage deals across Europe to remain moderate so as not to
trigger an inflationary spiral in the 13 countries that share the
euro.


The euro bank has raised borrowing costs seven times since
December 2005 in a bid to keep a lid on area-wide inflation.


While it held its key rates steady on Thursday, the ECB is widely
expected to raise them again in the coming months from their
current five-and-a-half-year high of 3.75 percent.

