

US shares edged higher in late morning dealing Thursday as
bargain hunters emerged following hefty losses in the prior day's
trading session, market participants said.


Traders voiced hope that the hangover from Wednesday's share sell
off was abating after the minutes of a Federal Reserve meeting
dashed investors hopes of interest rate cuts anytime soon.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up a slight 0.65 points
(0.01 percent) to 12,485.27 at 1543 GMT after opening lower.


The Nasdaq composite rose a stronger 5.15 points (0.21 percent)
at 2,464.46 while the Standard and Poor's 500 broad-market index
had gained 0.54 points (0.04 percent) to 1,439.41.


"Buyers continue to show some resolve in face of diminished hopes
of a Fed rate cut and rising oil prices," analysts at
Briefing.com said in a market update.


The Fed minutes, dating from a March meeting but released
Wednesday, sparked a stock sell off as investors poured over the
deliberations which warned that "further policy firming might
prove necessary to foster lower inflation."


Traders said investors were also keeping a watch on fresh profit
reports as the first quarter corporate earnings season swung into
gear.


"Investors are also now keeping a close eye on earnings releases
after Alcoa kicked off earnings season Tuesday night by topping
forecasts with record first quarter net income," said Al Goldman,
a chief market strategist at AG Edwards.


On the deal front, Swiss food giant Nestle said it had agreed to
buy baby food maker Gerber for 5.5 billion dollars in a
transaction boosting its global footprint.


Nestle said the all-cash offer to buy Gerber from Swiss
pharmaceutical group Novartis would secure it a top position in
the United States, the world's largest baby food market, where
Gerber has a 79-percent market share.


Novartis shares slipped a penny to 55.08.


Retail titan Wal-Mart meanwhile announced better-than-expected
comparable store sales for the four week period ended April 6,
saying sales had risen four percent compared with the same period
a year earlier.


Wal-Mart's stock was down four cents at 47.23 dollars.


Elsewhere, Dow Chemical said it had fired two corporate officers
for "unauthorized discussions with third parties about the
potential acquisition" of the chemicals giant.


Dow said it had terminated Pedro Reinhard, a senior advisor and
member of the board, and Romeo Kreinberg, an officer of the
company, for engaging in "business activity that was highly
inappropriate and a clear violation of Dow's Code of Business
Conduct."


Dow's shares had surged earlier this week on reports that US
private equity firms and foreign investors were poised to mount a
mega 50-billion-dollar takeover bid for the company.


Dow's shares were up 1.04 dollars at 46.13 dollars.


Canadian media reports suggested that auto-parts giant Magna
International Inc. was wooing investment firm Onex Corp. to help
it launch an all-Canadian bid for troubled US carmaker Chrysler.


German-US auto giant DaimlerChrysler has put Chrysler up for sale
after struggling to maintain the US firm's vehicles sales, partly
amid an onslaught from Japanese car makers.


Magna fell 96 cents to 77.49 and DaimlerChysler's US shares lost
44 cents to 82.74.


New York oil prices surged higher to within range of 63 dollars
in morning deals.


Bond prices also rose. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
eased to 4.724 percent from 4.739 percent late Wednesday and that
on the 30-year bond dipped to 4.902 percent against 4.915
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

