

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte arrived in Sudan on
Thursday at the start of an African tour that will be dominated
by the situation in war-torn Darfur, an official said.


Negroponte is expected to press Khartoum to accept a hybrid
peacekeeping force of UN and African Union forces to stem
violence that has steadily escalated since the Darfur conflict
erupted in 2003 and which has increased tension between Sudan and
neighbouring Chad.


"The tragic situation of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur is
something that peoccupies all Americans. It is an issue to which
the administration is devoting considerable time and resources,"
Negroponte said in Washington ahead of his mission.


On Friday he will go to Juba, capital of semi-autonomous south
Sudan over which a peace accord was signed in January 2005 after
more than 20 years of conflict with the north.


The US embassy said Negroponte will travel to Durfur on Saturday
ahead of talks on Sunday with officials in Khartoum. The State
Department said he will then visit Chad, Libya and Mauritania.


Negroponte's visit comes after the United States held off on a
decision to impose unilateral sanctions against Sudan to give UN
Secretary General Ban Ki- moon a last chance to convince Khartoum
to allow UN peacekeepers into Darfur.


Ban on April 2 asked for an additional two to four weeks to
pressure Sudan's government to lift its opposition to deployment
of the UN force of some 20,000 troops to Darfur before turning to
sanctions.


Sudan, the United Nations and the African Union have agreed in
Addis Ababa on phase two of UN support for the AU force, with
7,000 men. But Khartoum is refusing to accept a further 3,000 men
and assault helicopters, according to Sudanese press reports.


Phase three -- the hybrid UN-AU force itself, has yet to be
negotiated.


The African Union peacekeepers have been unable to contain the
violence in Darfur where 200,000 people have been killed and more
than two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations, which has reported widespread human rights abuses.


The Khartoum government disputes those figures.

