

The Serbian government said Thursday it would protest to Berlin
over a call by the German ambassador in Belgrade for independence
for the disputed Kosovo province.


In his remarks, ambassador Andreas Zobel "has obviously
interfered in Serbia's internal affairs," the government said in
a statement.


"Ambassador Zobel has, in many ways, questioned the territorial
integrity of Serbia and the inviolability of its recognised
international borders," the statement continued.


Speaking at a public debate in Belgrade on Wednesday, Zobel said
the sensitive issue of Kosovo's status should be solved as soon
as possible by granting an internationally-supervised
independence to the southern Serbian province.


That is in line with recommendations made by United Nations chief
mediator Martii Ahtisaari for the future status of the Albanian-
majority province.


His plan has already been endorsed by Kosovo Albanians, the
European Union and the United States but is strongly opposed by
Moscow and Belgrade, which has instead suggested that the
province be granted autonomy within Serbian borders.


If the Kosovo issue was not solved as suggested, "the problems
could reappear in Vojvodina (a northern Serbian province with a
multi-ethnic population) and Sandzak," a southwestern Serbian
region with a strong Muslim population, Zobel was quoted as
saying by private radio B92.


The Serbian government said it expected "the German government to
clarify whether ambassador Zobel has expressed the official
stance of his government."


Serbian President Boris Tadic also sent a protest note to the
Germany's foreign ministry, and his office said German President
Horst Kohler would receive a similar note.


The German embassy in Belgrade has meanwhile denied that Zobel
warned that Vojvodina's future might be on the line, according to
a statement quoted by the Beta news agency.


The ambassador himself apologised at a brief press conference
late Thursday "for remarks that might have been incorrectly
understood," B92 reported.


Though legally a Serbian province, Kosovo has been run by a
United Nations mission since mid-1999, when a NATO bombing
campaign ended the Serbian forces' crackdown on the independence-
seeking ethnic Albanian population.

