

American author Kurt Vonnegut, whose works blended science
fiction and black comedy built on his experience as Nazi prisoner
of war, has died at the age of 84, his publisher said Thursday.


Vonnegut, best known for "Cat's Cradle," "Breakfast of Champions"
and "Slaughterhouse-Five," widely rated as one of the best
American novels of the 20th century, died late Wednesday in New
York, a Random House spokeswoman said.


Vonnegut suffered brain injuries in a fall several weeks ago, his
longtime friend Morgan Entrekin told the New York Times.


Born in Indianapolis, Indiana in 1922, Vonnegut was captured
inside German lines in 1945 following the Battle of the Bulge.


Confined to an underground meat-packing cellar in Dresden when
Allied bombers descended upon the city, he was one of just seven
US prisoners who survived the devastating firestorm that engulfed
the city.


That experience formed the core of "Slaughterhouse-Five,"
published in the midst of the furor over the Vietnam war in 1969
to widespread acclaim.


"All this happened, more or less," is the memorable line opening
the metaphysical, humanist tale of a soldier "unstuck in time" in
an underground Dresden abattoir.


After the war he moved to Chicago where he worked as a local
police reporter and entered the University of Chicago in pursuit
of a master's degree in anthropology.


His thesis on "The Fluctuations Between Good and Evil in Simple
Tales," was famously rejected by all the members of a faculty
panel, and he only earned the degree in 1971 when the university
accepted "Cat's Cradle" as the thesis.


In 1947 he moved to New York and began writing for magazines and
took up odd jobs. He published his first of 14 novels in 1952.


"Player Piano" was a futuristic study of a society dominated by
machines but with deep divides between upper and lower classes,
painted with the irony and humor that identified his later
novels.


His next book, "The Sirens of Titan," came out in 1959, another
science fiction novel heavy with satire and featuring the "Church
of God the Utterly Indifferent."


But he made his name in 1963 with "Cat's Cradle." Heavily
autobiographical, it is narrated by an author writing a book
called "The Day the World Ended" about an atomic bomb being
dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima.


He continued to publish short stories and essays, and then topped
book sales charts in 1969 with "Slaughterhouse-Five."


In an interview with the Times that year, he summed up his
approach. "You can't write novels without a touch of paranoia...
I'm paranoid as an act of good citizenship, concerned about what
the powerful people are up to."


His success did not prevent a descent into personal despair and a
suicide attempt in 1985, which evoked his mother's own suicide 41
years earlier.


But even that became fodder for his sardonic, self-effacing work.


He published his last full-length book, "Timequake," in 1997, and
wrote in his later years searing and humorous asides in the
Chicago leftist magazine "In These Times."


Months before the March 2003 invasion of Iraq, he bemoaned the
coming war: "I myself feel that our country, for whose
Constitution I fought in a just war, might as well have been
invaded by Martians and body snatchers."


Vonnegut was married twice. His first wife was Jane Marie Cox,
whom he married after returning from the war. He had three
children with Cox. They also adopted the three children of
Vonnegut's sister after she died of cancer.


He separated from Cox in the 1970s and they divorced in 1979. He
later married photographer Jill Krementz, with whom he adopted
another child.

