

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz Thursday apologized for
making a "mistake" over hefty pay rises given to his girlfriend
at the development lender, but refused to say if he might quit.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told a press
conference as an uproar intensified over an employment package
worth nearly 200,000 dollars given by the World Bank to his
Libyan-born partner, Shaha Riza.


The former deputy US defense secretary refused to say if he might
have to resign as the World Bank's board of governors met to
discuss the row Thursday.


"I'm not going to pre-empt their deliberations," he said, but
added: "I will accept any rememdies they propose.


"I take full responsibility for the details of the agreement," he
added, after explaining that he had followed advice given by the
bank's ethics committee on Riza's employment.


"I did not attempt to hide my actions nor make anyone else
responsible."


The controversy has embarrassed Wolfowitz just as he battles to
overcome skepticism about a campaign that he is waging against
corruption in the World Bank's multi-billion-dollar lending.


He is also under fire from veteran World Bank staff for his
management style, following a series of clashes with the board
and hostility towards his appointment of Republican Party allies
to key bank posts.


Riza was transferred from the World Bank's communications office
to the US State Department, in line with bank regulations to
avoid a conflict of interest after Wolfowitz's appointment in
mid-2005.


While still on the World Bank payroll, she was then rapidly
promoted and ended up with a nearly 200,000-dollar package --
more even than Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


Wolfowitz acknowledged that the controversy "had the potential to
harm this institution" and stressed that he had initially wanted
no involvement in her employment terms.


"This was not in any way to protect personal interests. My real
regret was that I didn't more forcefully keep myself out it," he
said.


Given his romantic involvement with her, he faced a "painful
personal dilemma when I was new to the institution" but had made
a "good-faith effort to promote my understanding of that advice"
of the ethics committee.


The committee's advice had been to "promote and relocate" Riza
out of the World Bank, he said, although that is disputed by some
bank staff.


According to a Financial Times report Thursday, Wolfowitz
personally ordered the massive pay rises given to Riza.


It cited two people who had seen a memo from Wolfowitz to the
head of human resources spelling out the terms of the package.


Last week the bank's governors, who are appointed by national
governments, ordered an investigation into a "possible violation
of staff rules in favor of a staff member closely associated with
the president."


The probe was instigated after a circular from the World Bank's
internal staff association said it had been "inundated with
messages from staff expressing concern, dismay and outrage" over
the Riza case.


Wolfowitz, attacked by some members like Mexico for his role as
an architect of the war in Iraq, refused to say whether his
credibility was now damaged beyond repair.


But he insisted that he had taken on board staff criticisms,
especially over his appointment of two former members of
President George W. Bush's administration to high-ranking jobs in
his inner circle.


Wolfowitz denied he had brought in an "army of Bush
administration retreads" but acknowledged: "I agree that their
role has to be better structured."

