

The White House on Thursday condemned a deadly suicide bombing
inside Iraq's parliament complex but insisted that the attack did
not call into question the US-led crackdown in Baghdad.


"The United States condemns this attack on the democratically
elected government of Iraq," national security spokesman Gordon
Johndroe said after the bombing left three people dead, including
two Iraqi lawmakers.


Asked whether the blast called into question the effectiveness of
the US-led security plan, Johndroe replied: "No, I think it shows
the determination of the terrorists and and extremists.


"They are worried that the United States and Iraqi security
forces are fighting them, so they are fighting back because they
do not want the people of Iraq to live in freedom," Johndroe told
AFP.


"The terrorists will do everything they can to try to undermine a
government that is trying to bring peace and stability for the
people of Iraq," he added, saying US and Iraqi authorities would
work to prevent another such attack.


"This incident just took place, I know that American and Iraqi
security forces will take a look at exactly what happened and
take steps to make sure that it does not take place again," said
the spokesman.


An Iraqi security official, speaking on condition of anonymity
from the scene of the attack, said the suicide bomber, who wore
an explosive vest and carried a briefcase, blew himself up in the
canteen.


State television reported that three lawmakers were killed, but
the official told AFP that the third victim was a parliamentary
employee.


"The flesh of the suicide bomber was scattered across the
cafeteria. There was blood everywhere on the floor," the official
told AFP.


MP Mohammed Awad, who is a member of the National Dialogue Front,
a Sunni Arab party which has 11 seats in the 275-member
parliament, was among the dead, the official told AFP.


The official said the other lawmaker killed was a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, the second biggest grouping represented in
parliament after the main Shiite Muslim alliance.


However, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, also a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, could not confirm that when contacted by AFP.


Another 20 people, around 10 MPs and 10 security officials, were
wounded in the blast and all the casualties were taken to the Ibn
Sina, the US military hospital inside the heavily guarded Green
Zone compound.

