

Global trade growth could slacken this year given a forecast
slowdown in the world economy, but Chinese exports will continue
to gain market share, the World Trade Organisation said on
Thursday.


"The reduced pace of global economic activity will imply lower
trade growth which is expected to average maybe around 6 percent
in 2007," the WTO's chief economist Patrick Low told journalists.


Trade growth reached 8.0 percent in 2006, accelerating by two
percentage points over 2005, the WTO said in a preliminary report
on trade prospects.


The growth in overall demand in the United States is expected to
remain weak in the first half of the year, while Japan and Europe
are not expected to post as impressive economic performances as
in 2006, Low added.


China, however, should remain a growth powerhouse, and is set to
overtake the United States to become the world's second largest
exporter of merchandise goods, the WTO said.


Chinese merchandise exports rose 27 percent in 2006 to 969
billion dollars (719 billion euros), behind the United States on
1.037 trillion dollars and Germany in pole position with 1.112
trillion dollars.


In the second half of the year, they actually surpassed those of
the United States.


"If China's growth continues... it will continue to exceed US
merchandise exports," said WTO senior economist Michael Finger.


WTO Director General Pascal Lamy said the uncertainties and risks
facing the global economy should act as a spur for all concerned
to work for a successful conclusion of the deadlocked Doha round
of trade liberalisation talks.


"A successful conclusion to the Doha Round holds great potential
for boosting growth and alleviating poverty," Lamy said.


However, WTO economists would not be drawn on specific figures or
forecasts of how a successful conclusion to the round, which is
aimed at breaking down trade barriers, would stimulate the world
economy.


"It seems to me that at the end of the day anyone who tells you,
you do this in the Doha Round and this is what is going to happen
in the economy, is a bit of a charlatan," said Low.


His points were echoed by Finger, who noted that it would take
several years for the impact of any successful trade agreement to
be felt across the global economy.


The WTO report said greater risks of a downturn in financial and
property markets and large current account imbalances were
fuelling investor uncertainty.


"The consensus among forecasters favours a moderate deceleration
in world economic growth in 2007," it added.


However, economic fundamentals in the major economies are strong
enough to keep global growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
close to 3.0 percent, compared to 3.7 percent last year, the
report underlined.


The United States is likely to bear the brunt of the slowdown of
GDP growth, while any European let-up was likely to be less
pronounced.


Japan could avoid a slowdown in growth altogether, the report
said.


In such a scenario, developed economies could maintain their
average GDP growth at 2.5 percent in 2007.


The modest slowdown is likely to have an impact in the developing
world, although economies there remain set to grow at twice the
rate of their developed counterparts, the WTO said.


The economists also said that environmental concerns are likely
to play a more prominent role in policy, for example consumer and
political concerns about the environmental costs of transporting
goods across countries.


"The potential for this to affect world trade is real, but the
issue we need to do work on... is really to look at what the
relationships are," said Low.


However, current analysis is very insufficient, and other factors
such as energy use should be taken into consideration alongside
transport, he added.

