

The United States called on Nigeria Thursday to give poll
observers "full and transparent access" to presidential elections
this month that will mark the country's first transfer of power
from one civilian to another.


"We encourage the electoral authorities and government to take
all possible measures to enhance public confidence in the
elections," said State Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


"These steps should include the immediate granting of full and
transparent access for domestic and international electoral
observers," he said.


Elections for state governorships and assemblies are scheduled
for April 14 while presidential and National Assembly elections
are set for April 21.


The run-up to the elections have been marred by violence, with
five people killed this week in clashes between political rivals.


And a key rival to outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, Vice
President Atiku Abubakar, has been barred by the electoral
commission from running for the presidency.


McCormack rejected suggestions that Washington was ignoring
opposition charges that the ruling party of Obasanjo, a US ally
who steps down in May after 16 years in power, was using
intimidation and legal maneuvers to limit slates of candidates in
the polls.


"In no way, shape or form," McCormack said, noting that the US
government had spent some 15 million dollars over the past three
years to train election authorities and poll watchers in Nigeria
ahead of the votes.


"The United States is a committed supporter of free, fair and
open elections in Nigeria," he said.


But McCormack acknowledged that Nigeria was "trying to move
beyond its past where the credibility of some of those elections
came into doubt among outside observers."


"We have talked to the Nigerians periodically about the
importance of having the right kinds of elections," he said,
adding that this meant polls that are "free, fair and
transparent, not only on election day but also in the run-up to
the election."


Nigeria's presidential election will mark the first transition
from one civilian government to another in the oil-rich west
African nation of 140 million.

