

The head of Bangladesh's military-backed government said Thursday
he expected to stage elections by the end of 2008 and hand over
power afterwards.


"I firmly believe the much awaited parliamentary elections can be
held before the end of 2008,' Fakhruddin Ahmed said in a
televised address to the nation.


"We are determined to hand over power to an elected government
after holding free and fair elections through carrying out
necessary programmes and administrative reforms as soon as
possible," he said.


"In this respect I want to say in clear language that we won't
stay on power a day longer than necessary," he added in the
address which marked the completion of his third month as head of
the government.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since elections slated
for January were cancelled after months of turmoil over
allegations of poll rigging.


Political activity has been banned and freedom of speech curbed.


The former central bank governor's statement came after the
government moved to sideline the country's two chief political
dynasties, spearheaded by women whose fierce rivalry has been
called the "battle of the begums."


Sheikh Hasina Wajed, the main opposition leader, was charged on
Wednesday in the murder of four people who were beaten to death
during political violence that racked the nation's capital last
October.


At the same time, the government severely curtailed the freedom
of former prime minister Khaleda Zia, putting her under virtual
house arrest.


The new interim government has vowed to clean up politics and
carry out sweeping electoral reforms in order to stage credible
elections.


Its crackdown has led to the arrest of at least 50 political
figures, including Zia's influential son.


Last weekend, Hasina attacked the government's decision to delay
elections for 18 months while on Tuesday, Zia warned that the
South Asian nation, which has known long periods of military
rule, was at the crossroads.


Hasina, who has delayed her return to Bangladesh from the United
States where she was visiting relatives, has said the murder
charges against her are false and vowed to fight them in court.

