

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz Thursday apologized for
making a "mistake" over hefty pay rises given to his girlfriend
at the development lender, amid an uproar about alleged
favoritism.


"I made a mistake for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told a press
conference.


The former deputy US defense secretary refused to say if he might
have to resign as the World Bank's board of governors met to
discuss the row Thursday.


"I'm not going to pre-empt their deliberations," he said, but
added: "I will accept any rememdies they propose.


"This was not in any way to protect personal interests. My real
regret was that I didn't more forcefully keep myself out it," he
said.


"I take full responsibility for the details of the agreement," he
added, after explaining that he had followed advice given by the
bank's ethics committee on the employment of his Libyan-born
partner, Shaha Riza.


She was transferred from the World Bank's communications office
to the US State Department in line with bank regulations to avoid
a conflict of interest after Wolfowitz's appointment in mid-2005.


While still on the World Bank payroll, she was then rapidly
promoted and ended up with a nearly 200,000-dollar package --
more even than Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


Wolfowitz acknowledged that the situation surrounding Riza "had
the potential to harm this institution" and stressed that he had
initially wanted no involvement in her employment terms.


Given his romantic involvement with her, he faced a "painful
personal dilemma when I was new to the institution" but had made
a "good-faith effort to promote my understanding of that advice"
of the ethics committee.


The committee's advice had been to "promote and relocate" Riza
out of the World Bank, he said, although that is disputed by some
bank staff.


According to a Financial Times report Thursday, Wolfowitz
personally ordered the hefty pay rises given to Riza.


It cited two people who had seen a memo from Wolfowitz to the
head of human resources spelling out the terms of the package.

