

Former Pakistan cricket captain Inzamam-ul-Haq criticised the
security at the Jamaican hotel where coach Bob Woolmer was
strangled during the World Cup last month.


Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room in Kingston, Jamaica on
March 18, a day after cricketing giants Pakistan suffered a shock
defeat at the hands of minnows Ireland, knocking them out of the
World Cup.


Inzamam -- who quit as skipper after Pakistan's exit and also
announced his retirement from one-day internationals -- said if
the murder had happened in Pakistan there would have been a big
fuss abroad.


"Four international teams were staying in one hotel -- what
security arrangements were made for them? There should be an
investigation," Inzamam told private Geo television in an
interview broadcast Thursday.


"We should raise this question" with the World Cup hosts, he
added.


Two Pakistani policemen -- one of whom led the probe into the
2002 murder of US reporter Daniel Pearl in the southern Pakistan
city of Karachi -- travelled to Jamaica last week to monitor the
Woolmer investigation.


Jamaican police have said Woolmer was strangled to death in his
room but have yet to identify the killers, despite persistent
rumours of a link to match- fixing.


It was also reported on Thursday that the inquest into Woolmer's
death has been set for April 23.


Patrick Murphy, the Kingston coroner, will conduct a hearing at
the Jamaica Conference Centre and, according to The Times
newspaper, a dozen or more witnesses are expected to testify.


Meanwhile, Inzamam said that following their World Cup debacle
Pakistan should select an "experienced coach ... a person of good
nature" as Woolmer's successor.


Inzamam again took responsibility for the defeat, adding the
team's performance was dismal. "The team was not bad, but we
played badly," he said.


He rejected as "unfair" comments by critics that the team went to
the West Indies without proper planning for the World Cup,
pointing to Bangladesh's victory last week over South Africa.


Inzamam said he would not reverse his decision to retire from
one-day cricket and would be ready to play under any skipper. "I
would have no problem playing under any captain," he said.

