

UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Thursday sought to reassure Sudan that
helicopter gunships to be used by UN peacekeepers in Darfur would
be used for deterrence, not for offensive purposes.


Asked about the remaining sticking point in a tripartite
agreement involving a plan to send UN troops to bolster AU troops
in Darfur, Ban indicated that that this involved the use of
attack helicopters.


"There seems to be some misunderstanding on the part of the
Sudanese government on this equipment," the UN secretary general
said, referring to the helicopter gunships. "This is not for any
offensive purpose...When you deploy troops you need to have
mobility with some capacity for deterrence."


"This is just standard equipment about which they (the Sudanese)
should have no concern," he added.


Ban pointed out that the commander and deputy commander of the
proposed UN force in Darfur would be African generals, as
requested by Khartoum.


Monday after talks involving UN, AU and Sudanese government
officials in Addis Ababa over a three-stage plan for
international peacekeeping in Darfur, Sudan agreed to allow the
UN to start sending reinforcements to AU troops in Darfur.


The AU's peace and security commissioner Said Djinnit then said
Sudanese representatives agreed on all but "one outstanding
point" of the second-stage plan to send UN troops to support the
AU force.


He added that the Sudanese promised to respond to this
outstanding issue -- the use of helicopter gunships -- "within
days," after speaking to the government in Khartoum.


Djinnit said the agreement was a "very important step forward"
and said the AU was now urging the UN to "move quickly" to
implement the plan.


Under the second-phase of the UN plan, roughly 2,300 UN troops
are to be deployed in Darfur to bolster under-equipped AU troops
that have failed to stem the bloodshed in the western Sudanese
region.


Ban recalled that he would hold key talks here Monday and Tuesday
with AU Commission Chairman Alpha Oumar Konare on the third and
final phase of the UN plan expected to culminate in the
deployment of a 20,000-strong joint UN-AU force in Darfur.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million fled their homes since the Darfur
conflict erupted in February 2003. Some sources say the death
toll is much higher.

