

Moroccan police questioned two men and uncovered a cache of
assault rifles Thursday as they hunted accomplices of three
suicide bombers who blew themselves up here this week.


Police said one of the men had been cleared and released.


Another man, who entered a house after the bombings and
threatened to blow himself up unless he was given food, was also
not thought to be involved in Tuesday's violence. He was not
carrying any explosives.


He remained in custody but a police officer said he had not been
carrying any explosives when he was eventually subdued by
security forces.


A search of an apartment used by one of the bombers turned up a
cache of Kalashnikov assault rifles, a computer and mobile
phones, which police said could provide valuable information on
the bombers' accomplices.


Authorities have said there was no sign of a link between the
Casablanca bombings and two suicide bomb attacks that killed at
least 33 people in Algeria on Wednesday.


Residents of Casablanca were jittery in the wake of Tuesday's
explosions in the commercial el Farah district, when three
suspected militants blew themselves up as they were being chased
by police.


Police shot dead a fourth would-be bomber before he could set off
his explosives belt.


One police inspector was killed and seven people including a
child and two police officers were injured in the blasts.


Most shops in the el Farah area were closed on Thursday.
Residents told how they had surrounded one of the men detained by
police.


"We saw the young man trying to clandestinely leave the
district," said Ahmed Choukhani.


"We went after him and detained him before handing him over to
police. He looked thin and tired like someone who had been
hiding," he added.


Interior Minister Chakib Benmoussa said Wednesday that security
forces believed the bombers were local militants with no
connection to the Al-Qaeda group of Osama bin Laden, which
claimed responsibility for the Algeria attacks.


"We have found no logistical or structural elements to prove a
link with  the bombings at Algiers but we do not rule out a
movement espousing jihad (Islamic holy war) and terrorism," he
said.


The extremists who blew themselves up here Tuesday were wanted in
connection with a March 11 bombing at a Casablanca Internet cafe.

