

The outlook for growth in the 13-country eurozone remains
favourable and there are still upside risks to price stability in
the single currency area, European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet said on Thursday.


Speaking after the ECB held its key interest rates steady at 3.75
percent at the bank's regular monthly meeting here, Trichet
hinted at further rises in eurozone borrowing costs in the coming
months by insisting that "the outlook for price developments
remains subject to upside risks."


And the bank, known as the guardian of the euro, would act in a
"firm and timely manner" to counter such risks, the Frenchman
vowed.


While statistical base effects were likely to lead to a slowdown
in area-wide inflation in the short term, the annual rate of
inflation in the 13 countries that share the euro would likely
"rise again towards the end of the year to hover again at around
2.0 percent."


The ECB defines price stability as inflation rates close to but
just below 2.0 percent.


The main factors behind the anticipated pick-up were "the
possibility of further oil price rises and additional increases
in administered prices and indirect taxes beyond those announced
and decided thus far," Trichet said.


"More fundamentally, stronger than currently expected wage
developments could pose significant upward risks to price
stability, not least in view of the favourable momentum in labour
markets observed over the past few quarters," he continued.


Liquidity in the eurozone economy was also "ample by all
plausible measures" as seen in robust money supply growth, which
the ECB sees as a gauge of future inflation.


The eurozone's money supply expanded by 10.0 percent in February,
way above the ECB's reference value of 4.5 percent.


"Monetary developments therefore continue to require very careful
monitoring, particularly against the background of a solid
expansion in economic activity," Trichet said.


Indeed, the growth outlook for the euro area was positive, the
ECB chief said.


"On the basis of the latest data, it appears that robust growth
is continuing in the first half of 2007," he said.


And "looking further ahead, the conditions are in place for the
euro area economic to grow solidly," Trichet added.

