

North Korea's handover of the remains of six US soldiers was a
personal and not a political gesture, a high-ranking officer of
the communist state said Thursday.


North Korea on Wednesday handed over the purported remains of six
Americans killed during the 1950-53 Korean War as the clock
ticked for Pyongyang to meet a deadline to start shutting a
nuclear reactor.


A high-ranking officer of the Korean People's Army told AFP that
Pyongyang wanted to show goodwill to Bill Richardson, the US
presidential candidate and veteran negotiator who took back the
remains.


"This is not a political gesture, this is a sign of goodwill"
towards Richardson, said the lieutenant colonel stationed at
Panmunjom, the border village where the New Mexico governor
crossed the day before.


"This is a personal gesture more than a political gesture towards
the United States," said the officer, who did not give his name.


Referring to the United States, the officer said: "They waited 57
years to get back the remains, but why did they attack our
country?"


Richardson's mission came ahead of Saturday's deadline for North
Korea to shut down a nuclear reactor in the first key deadline of
a breakthrough US-backed aid-for-disarmament deal.


The United States says it has resolved a row over frozen North
Korean funds that had prevented Pyongyang from implementing the
deal.


Richardson on Wednesday thanked the North for returning the
remains "unconditionally and in a very dignified manner,"
describing it as a very positive gesture.


"Hopefully this act will help heal wounds from the Korean War"
and bring closure to families, he said.


On Thursday, Richardson joined US troops for a solemn ceremony in
South Korea to repatriate the remains, which the military sent to
Hawaii for identification.


Richardson has dealt closely with North Korea throughout his
career, including as the US ambassador to the United Nations.


It was his sixth visit to the communist state. Richardson has
also welcomed North Korean delegations twice to New Mexico.


More than 33,000 US troops were killed during the Korean War and
some 8,100 are still listed as missing in action.


Between 1996 and 2005, North Korean and US authorities jointly
recovered 229 sets of US remains after Pyongyang accepted former
US president Jimmy Carter's proposal to retrieve the bodies.

