

European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet sent a clear
signal Thursday that the bank was set to raise its key interest
rates -- already at a five-and-a -half-year high -- still further
in June.


While the ECB, known as the guardian of the euro, held its
benchmark "refi" refinancing rate steady at 3.75 percent on
Thursday and signalled a continuation of the status quo again
next month, the financial markets were not wrong in betting on a
rise in eurozone borrowing costs in June, Trichet said.


Asked at a news conference whether market expectations for a June
rate rise were correct, Trichet said: "I would not say anything
today aimed at changing the expectations for a month or two."


Nevertheless, the Frenchman insisted that the ECB had not "pre-
committed" to any pre-set timetable of interest rate moves.


"We never pre-commit in advance," he said. "I will not comment on
future decisions."


The ECB had not been expected to tighten monetary conditions in
the euro area again this month after it raised its key rates to a
five-and-a-half-year high in March.


ECB watchers are nevertheless expecting the ECB to tighten
monetary conditions again in the coming months, with the
overwhelming majority of analysts betting on a rise in the refi
to 4.0 percent in June.


Trichet said that "there was no discussion" within the ECB's
policy-making governing council of a possible move this month.


The decision to hold rates steady was "unanimous", he said.


Nevertheless, even at the current level of interest rates, the
ECB's monetary policy stance remained "on the accommodative
side", Trichet said. The bank would "act in a firmly and timely
manner" to safeguard price stability in the euro area, he
promised.


The prospect of a further rise in ECB rates is likely to rile
politicians and business leaders in the euro area.


Politicians believe that further rate hikes could put the brakes
on the eurozone's current economic expansion.


And business leaders are concerned that higher interest rates
will make it more expensive for companies to borrow money.


But Trichet insisted that "the conditions are in place for the
euro area economy to (continue to) grow solidly" in the longer
term and that the risks to price stability remained firmly on the
upside, not least as a result of a possible renewed rise on oil
prices and high wage increases.


"Stronger than currently expected wage developments could pose
significant upward risks to price stability," Trichet said.


The ECB would therefore "monitor wage negotiations in euro area
countries with particular attention," he said.


The comments appeared to be a direct riposte to a call by the
European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) for the ECB not to
"meddle" in the current round of wage talks.


In a newspaper interview on Thursday, ETUC deputy general
secretary Reiner Hoffmann urged the ECB not to interfere in wage
talks, rejecting the argument that high wage increases could fuel
inflation in the single currency area.


"The ECB should stop meddling in wage talks," Hoffmann told the
daily Frankfurter Rundschau.


Wage policy did not represent any inflationary threat in Europe,
he insisted.


"Company profits have risen meteorically, but not workers'
income," Hoffmann said.


In Germany in particular, "there is a lot of catching up to do"
for workers to participate in the economic upturn, Hoffmann
added.

