

Virgin Media on Thursday launched legal proceedings in Britain's
High Court against rival pay-TV broadcaster BSkyB, as it accused
the latter of stifling competition.


"Virgin Media today filed legal proceedings in the High Court
aimed at resolving its dispute with Sky surrounding Sky's
withdrawal of its 'basic' channels from Virgin Media's TV
service.


"The proceedings also seek a remedy for the onerous rates imposed
by Sky for carriage of Virgin Media TV channels on Sky's own TV
service," a statement said.


Virgin Media chief executive Steve Burch said that the decision
to sue was a "serious step."


However he also noted that it was "a last resort" in Virgin's bid
to resolve a row with BSkyB that has led to hundreds of thousands
of Virgin customers prevented from viewing acclaimed US series,
including "24" and "Lost".


The statement added: "Sky, which accounts for almost 70 percent
of the country's Pay TV subscribers, is dominant in the UK Pay TV
market and has engaged in a strategy to stifle competition by
using its dominance against Virgin Media."


Virgin said that in January, Sky forced Virgin Media TV to accept
a reduction of approximately 85 percent in the fees that it pays
for Virgin Media channels such as Living, Bravo and Trouble,
despite a significant increase in the channels' popularity.


It added that in February, Sky attempted to double the fees
Virgin Media pays for retailing Sky's basic channels on the
Virgin Media network, despite a reduction in the channels'
popularity of about 20 percent over the last three years.


"When Virgin Media declined to pay such excessive charges because
it would not be viable for it to do so, Sky refused to continue
to supply its channels to Virgin Media. Sky has aggressively
promoted the withdrawal as a reason for Virgin Media customers to
switch to Sky," the statement continued.


Virgin Media provides pay-television through cables while BSkyB
offers its Sky television service via satellite.


"This dispute is one very specific example of how UK consumers
are being denied the benefits of a diverse, dynamic and
competitive pay TV market," said Virgin's chief Burch.


"Litigation is obviously a serious step and a last resort but we
are determined to have these issues resolved as quickly and
fairly as possible."

