

The Vatican's ambassador to Israel will not attend an annual
Holocaust memorial next week because of its negative portrayal of
the wartime pope, the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial said on
Thursday.


Monsignor Antonio Franco said he would boycott the ceremony on
Sunday night at Yad Vashem in Jerusalem because of a caption that
appears next to a photo of Pope Pius XII, the pontiff during most
of World War II, spokeswoman Estee Yaari told AFP.


"The representative sent us a letter last week in which he
indicated that he would not participate in the commemoration" in
protest of "the way the pope is presented in the museum," she
said.


The caption that accompanies a photo of Pope Pius XII says his
"reaction to the murder of the Jews during the Holocaust is a
matter of controversy" and that "his silence and the absence of
guidelines obliged churchmen throughout Europe to decide on their
own how to react."


Franco confirmed the boycott to the Italian bishops news agency
SIR.


"It hurts to go to Yad Vashem and see how Pius XII is presented
there," he said, adding: "This photo offends the entire Catholic
Church."


The papal envoy said he had already conveyed his disapproval of
the use of the photo last year.


In a statement, Yad Vashem said it was "shocked and disappointed"
that the envoy would not partake in the official ceremony,
normally attended by Israeli officials and foreign ambassadors to
Israel.


"This contradicts the pope's statement during his visit to Yad
Vashem regarding the importance of remembering the Holocaust and
its victims," it said.


It said the "the Holocaust museum presents the historical truth
on Pope Pius XII as is known to scholars today."


"Yad Vashem told the Vatican's representative in Israel that it
was willing to continue examining the issue, and noted that if
granted access it would gladly study the Vatican's archives from
the era of Pope Pius XII's service, to possibly learn new and
different information than what is known today."

