

Azerbaijan expelled an Iranian dissident Thursday, sending him
back to his homeland where supporters say he will face
persecution for opposing Tehran's policies toward Iran's large
ethnic Azeri minority.


Hadi Sid Javad Musavi, an activist with a nationalist Azeri group
inside Iran, flew from the Azerbaijani capital Baku to Tehran
early Thursday, his legal representative, Alovsat Aliyev, said.


"As far as we know, he was arrested as soon as he arrived on
Iranian territory," said Aliyev, director of Azerbaijan's Centre
for Legal Aid to Migrants.


"This was someone who was involved in a struggle for freedom in
Iran," he said. "He should never have been deported to a country
where he is under threat."


Aliyev said Musavi, born in 1981, was arrested and tortured after
he participated in a July 2004 protest in northwestern Iran
during which he burned an Iranian flag. Musavi fled to Baku in
January 2006, where he requested asylum as a political refugee.


He is linked to the nationalist National Awakening Movement of
Southern Azerbaijan, which opposes Tehran's rule over parts of
northern Iran bordering Azerbaijan.


Aliyev said the decision to expel Musavi violated international
refugee conventions and was based on Azerbaijan's unwillingness
to anger Iran.


Azerbaijani authorities rejected the accusation.


"Musavi has not been deported from the country and there was no
underlying political reason involved," the head of the
Azerbaijani interior ministry's migration service, Shovgi
Gadiyev, said.


"Musavi was administratively expelled because he was residing on
the territory of Azerbaijan without a visa, in violation of the
law," Gadiyev said.


Northern Iran is home to 16-30 million ethnic Azeris, according
to varying estimates, far more than the eight million in
Azerbaijan itself.


Azeris speak a language close to Turkish, but have cultural and
religious links to Shiite Muslim Iran.


Azeri nationalists claim Iranian authorities have violently
suppressed attempts to promote minority rights, most recently
last May, when protests broke out over an official newspaper's
caricature of Azeris as cockroaches.


Dissident groups claim more than two dozen protesters were killed
and hundreds arrested in an ensuing crackdown. The claims have
not been independently verified.


Ex-Soviet Azerbaijan is a key US ally in the Caucasus region but
also has close diplomatic and trade relations with Iran.

