

The head of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) on Thursday welcomed what he called "positive"
early signals from Turkmenistan's new president, but rights
groups remained sceptical.


"The steps and proposals that have been transmitted to me are
positive," Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos told
reporters in the Turkmen capital following talks with President
Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov.


"They are aware of the challenges and want to go step by step in
the different areas," he added.


Moratinos hailed what he called the "young president in a young
country, (with) a dynamic economy and a strategic geopolitical
position."


"The strengthened cooperation with the OSCE is a positive sign,"
Moratinos added.


The Turkmen authorities hope to cooperate with the OSCE in
setting up a national electoral committee to prepare for
elections, Moratinos said, adding that the country had also
requested help in carrying out health reforms.


But human rights groups remained sceptical Thursday. They argued
that democracy was still a distant dream for Turkmenistan's five
million inhabitants.


"The reforms are limited to repairing the most flagrant
devastation (caused by Niyazov)," said Farid Tuhbatullin, who
runs the Turkmen Initiative for Human Rights from Vienna, where
he has been exiled since 2003.


The best scenario was a return to the worst of the Soviet era, he
added.


"For the time being there is no question of economic reforms --
the entire economy remains under State control -- and even less
of a democratic opening," he told AFP.


Aaron Rhodes of the Helsinki Federation for Human Rights agreed.


"A real sign of an opening would be to release the political
prisoners and authorise a civil society," he said.


"Until then, Turkmenistan will remain a totalitarian society."


Berdymukhammedov took power in the resource-rich central Asian
country in February following the death in December of the
country's first post-Soviet leader, the dictator and president-
for-life Saparmurat Niyazov.


The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
said at the time that the poll, which Berdymukhammedov won with
89 percent of the vote, marked an improvement in the rights
situation in the country.


But it but said it could not be described as a genuine election.


Major global powers have watched closely for signs of change in
the country because of its vast natural gas reserves and its
strategic location next to Afghanistan.


During his 15 years as president Niyazov largely sealed off this
country, relying on natural gas exports to Russia and Iran to
fill state coffers, while building an elaborate personality cult
around himself and his deceased parents.


According to Erika Dailey of the New York-based Open Society
Institute, life might actually have gotten worse under the new
president.


"Indeed, some civic leaders are reporting heightened surveillance
and harassment since Berdymukhammedov," she said.

