

The powers negotiating a nuclear disarmament deal with North
Korea can delay a weekend deadline that Pyongyang looks certain
to miss for sealing its main nuclear reactor, a senior US
official said Thursday.


"The members of the talks have it within their power to, I
suppose, modify any previous agreements," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said when asked whether the deadline
could be extended.


"These aren't treaties, these are political and diplomatic
commitments," he said of the landmark February 13 agreement under
which North Korea had 60 days to shutdown and seal its Yongbyon
reactor, from which the communist regime has extracted plutonium
to make nuclear bombs.


The North Koreans have refused to begin the process of shutting
the reactor until a dispute was resolved over 25 million dollars
of North Korean funds that were frozen in a Macau bank under US-
inspired sanctions.


While US officials insist the dispute was resolved this week, it
seems clear that Pyongyang does not have the time to completely
shut and seal Yongbyon by the Saturday deadline.


US Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill, Washington's
main negotiator in the six-party talks which led to the February
13 deal, said in Seoul Thursday that North Korea was still
expected to begin the process of closing down the reactor by
Saturday.


"I think it is possible to get going on the process in the next
two days, so let's see if they get going on the process," he told
reporters in the South Korean capital.


But he acknowledged that the process would take "more than days"
to complete and other US officials said they had no information
yet from North Korea on whether they had taken the first steps in
the procedure.


McCormack said the five parties involved in the negotiations with
North Korea -- China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United
States -- would discuss the state of play over the weekend.


"We'll assess where we are on Saturday and I expect over the
weekend there will be consultations," he said.


"One would hope we'd have a better idea of what the North Koreans
have done or what they're going to do," he said.

