

Virgin Media on Thursday launched legal proceedings in Britain's
High Court against rival pay-TV broadcaster BSkyB, accusing the
latter of stifling competition.


"Virgin Media today filed legal proceedings in the High Court
aimed at resolving its dispute with Sky surrounding Sky's
withdrawal of its 'basic' channels from Virgin Media's TV
service.


"The proceedings also seek a remedy for the onerous rates imposed
by Sky for carriage of Virgin Media TV channels on Sky's own TV
service," a statement said.


Virgin Media chief executive Steve Burch said that the decision
to sue was a serious step.


However he also noted that it was a last resort in Virgin's bid
to resolve a row with BSkyB that has led to hundreds of thousands
of Virgin customers prevented from viewing acclaimed US series,
including "24" and "Lost".


Hitting back, BSkyB said in a separate statement that the legal
action was "without foundation and is an obstacle to bringing
back Sky's basic channels for Virgin Media customers."


Some British media have described the escalating row as a battle
between British tycoon Richard Branson, head of the Virgin
conglomerate, and US rival Rupert Murdoch, whose media empire
News Corp. owns 39 percent of BSkyB.


Heading BSkyB, meanwhile, is Murdoch's son James.


Virgin noted Thursday that BSkyB accounts for almost 70 percent
of Britain's pay TV subscribers. This meant it was "dominant in
the UK Pay TV market and has engaged in a strategy to stifle
competition by using its dominance against Virgin Media."


British media watchdog Ofcom announced last month it would
investigate the pay TV market after a number of complaints from
players in the industry, including Virgin Media, plus concerns
raised by bodies such as the National Consumer Council over the
loss of Sky channels on Virgin Media.


Ofcom could refer the pay TV market to the Competition Commission
following an inquiry.


Virgin Media on Thursday alleged that in January, Sky forced
Virgin's TV arm to accept a reduction of approximately 85 percent
in the fees that Sky pays for Virgin Media channels such as
Living, Bravo and Trouble, despite a significant increase in the
channels' popularity.


Virgin added that in February, Sky attempted to double the fees
Virgin Media pays for retailing Sky's basic channels on the
Virgin Media network, despite a reduction in the channels'
popularity of about 20 percent over the last three years.


"When Virgin Media declined to pay such excessive charges because
it would not be viable for it to do so, Sky refused to continue
to supply its channels to Virgin Media. Sky has aggressively
promoted the withdrawal as a reason for Virgin Media customers to
switch to Sky," the statement continued.


Virgin Media provides pay-television through cables while BSkyB
offers its Sky television service via satellite.


"This dispute is one very specific example of how UK consumers
are being denied the benefits of a diverse, dynamic and
competitive pay TV market," said Virgin's chief Burch.


"Litigation is obviously a serious step and a last resort but we
are determined to have these issues resolved as quickly and
fairly as possible."

