

Europe and Washington should work to ease Moscow's concerns over
US plans for a missile defence system, German Defence Minister
Franz-Josef Jung said Thursday.


Jung, addressing the EU parliament's foreign affairs commission,
said the planned system was "aimed at protecting populations".


Asked about the US plan to install part of the anti-missile
shield in Poland and the Czech Republic, Jung said: "I think it
is good that in NATO, as with the NATO-Russia council, we are
working together to assuage possible doubts".


Although Jung has voiced support for the US scheme, it is not a
view that is universally backed within the German cabinet.


But he did insist it was important for the West "to work on a
partnership basis with Russia" on the matter, he added.


Russia should be convinced of the argument so as "to reach an
agreement for the protection of populations, for European
populations in particular," he said.


The United States has asked the Czech Republic to host a radar
system and Poland to host interceptor rockets as part of its
missile defence plans.


Washington insists the anti-missile shield is intended as
protection against attacks from "rogue states" such as Iran. It
points out that the proposed system would be useless against
Russia's vast weapons arsenal.


But Russia's President Vladimir Putin has said it could spark a
new arms race and that it was a needless distraction from the
fight against terrorism.


Jung also told the European deputies that every possible
diplomatic effort should be made "to prevent Iran from equipping
itself with nuclear arms".


He added: "It is vital for world peace. The United States,
Russia, Europe and China must work together."


President Putin had been very clear on one point, he continued.
"It is also in Russia's interests that Iran does not possess
atomic weapons."


On April 19, at NATO's Brussels headquarters, the 26 NATO allies
-- including 21 EU member states -- will discuss the anti-missile
system in the North Atlantic Council and then with Russia at a
NATO-Russia meeting.


Putin has strongly criticised the plans for the US missile
defence system.


"Why is it necessary to put military infrastructure on our
border? It's hardly connected to today's global threats. What is
the real threat? Terrorism," Putin told a security conference in
Munich in February.


That speech marked a further worsening of relations between
Moscow and Washington under Putin, who has tried to restore
Russia's prestige since the economic collapse that followed the
breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991.

