

The United States Thursday condemned a deadly suicide bombing
inside Iraq's parliament complex as the work of "terrorists" and
vowed it would not derail the crackdown on Baghdad.


"It's obviously again the terrorists and those who wish to stop
the Iraqi people from having a future that would be based on
democracy and stability," US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
said after meeting with Senator John McCain.


"There will be good days and bad days," Rice said, speaking of
the new US security plan which has seen thousands more US troops
deployed to Baghdad in recent weeks to counter insurgent attacks
and sectarian violence.


"But the commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and
working to try to make the population more secure," she said.


White House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe, when
asked if the blast raises questions about the effectiveness of
the US-led security plan in Baghdad, replied, "No, I think it
shows the determination of the terrorists and extremists.


"The terrorists will do everything they can to try to undermine a
government that is trying to bring peace and stability for the
people of Iraq," he added, saying US and Iraqi authorities would
work to prevent another such attack.


"This incident just took place, I know that American and Iraqi
security forces will take a look at exactly what happened and
take steps to make sure that it does not take place again," he
said.


McCain, a Republican presidential hopeful whose strong support
for the administration's policy in Iraq has hurt his popularity,
just returned from Baghdad where he praised the security.


He said the attack should not deter the United States from
pursuing its security surge.


"I fully expect the enemy to try to orchestrate more spectacular
attacks, such as rocketing the Green Zone and other acts, which
would understandably grab the attention and the headlines in the
United States, because they realize that if they can erode the
American public's will, then they would be able to achieve
success," he said.


"But I don't think that that should change the larger picture
which means we're achieving some small successes already with the
strategy being employed," he said.


An Iraqi security official, speaking on condition of anonymity
from the scene of the attack, said the suicide bomber, who wore
an explosive vest and carried a briefcase, blew himself up in the
canteen.


State television reported that three lawmakers were killed, but
the official told AFP that the third victim was a parliamentary
employee.


"The flesh of the suicide bomber was scattered across the
cafeteria. There was blood everywhere on the floor," the official
told AFP.


MP Mohammed Awad, who is a member of the National Dialogue Front,
a Sunni Arab party which has 11 seats in the 275-member
parliament, was among the dead, the official told AFP.


The official said the other lawmaker killed was a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, the second biggest grouping represented in
parliament after the main Shiite Muslim alliance.


However, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, also a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, could not confirm that when contacted by AFP.


Another 20 people, around 10 MPs and 10 security officials, were
wounded in the blast and all the casualties were taken to the Ibn
Sina, the US military hospital inside the heavily guarded Green
Zone compound.

