

The United States led international condemnation of Thursday's
deadly suicide bomb attack on Iraq's parliament complex, calling
it a cowardly assault on the fledgling democracy.


Eight people -- including at least two MPs -- were killed in the
attack in the cafeteria of the Baghdad parliament building, the
US military said.


"I strongly condemn the action. It reminds us, though, that there
is an enemy willing to bomb innocent people and a symbol of
democracy," US President George W. Bush told reporters.


The US leader said his message to the Iraqi people is: "We stand
with you."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said: "It's obviously
again the terrorists and those who wish to stop the Iraqi people
from having a future that would be based on democracy and
stability."


Britain and the Arab League also spoke out against the attack.
British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said: "Nothing could
highlight more the twisted minds of those who are seeking to
disrupt the democratic process in Iraq."


"Those who carry out these outrageous attacks offer nothing to
the Iraqi people except more murder and destruction. The Iraqi
people have shown great fortitude and courage -- they deserve our
full and continued support."


Arab League secretary general Amr Mussa said that he "strongly
condemns the terrorist explosion which took place today in the
Iraqi parliament, ending the lives of a number of deputies and
innocent employees and injuring others."


Mussa's statement called on the Iraqi people to work together
against violence and sectarianism and to restore stability.


The attack prompted US officials to defend the new US security
plan which has seen thousands of US troops deployed to Baghdad in
recent weeks to counter insurgent attacks and sectarian violence.


"There will be good days and bad days," Rice said. "But the
commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and working to
try to make the population more secure."


White House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe, rejected
suggestions that the blast raises questions about the US security
plan in Baghdad. "No, I think it shows the determination of the
terrorists and extremists.


"The terrorists will do everything they can to try to undermine a
government that is trying to bring peace and stability for the
people of Iraq," he added.


Senator John McCain, a Republican presidential hopeful whose
support for the Iraq war has hurt his popularity, said the attack
should not deter the US States security surge in Baghdad, which
he has just visited.


"I fully expect the enemy to try to orchestrate more spectacular
attacks, such as rocketing the Green Zone and other acts, which
would understandably grab the attention and the headlines in the
United States, because they realize that if they can erode the
American public's will, then they would be able to achieve
success," he said.


"But I don't think that that should change the larger picture
which means we're achieving some small successes already with the
strategy being employed," he said.

