

West Indies Cricket Board (WICB) chief executive Ken Gordon
pledged on Thursday that changes would be made in the light of
the team's disastrous World Cup campaign.


"You better believe that they have started already," Gordon said
when asked whether changes would be made to the team prior for
the upcoming tour to England.


However, he refused to go into details preferring to take aim at
the media and the host of former players who he accused of
destabilising West Indies hopes by constant criticism and demands
for the resignation of Brian Lara as skipper.


"When you make that almost like an agenda item, this attack,
attack attack, it is not in anybody's best interest," Gordon told
the Trinidad Express.


He also said that he took no notice of demands for his own head
after a World Cup campaign which started on a high with four
straight wins before it unravelled in the Super Eights with four
successive defeats.


"I can only say that if newspapers feel that is the best judgment
they can make, who am I to tell them not to make it," said
Gordon.


"But it just goes to exemplify the kind of very poor judgment of
which I am speaking.


"I would have absolutely no hesitation in resigning, if I thought
for one moment that it would assist the situation."


The West Indies have two more matches to play - against
Bangladesh on April 19 and England on April 21, both in Barbados.


They can still qualify for the semi-finals, but it will take a
miracle series of results to see them through.


Furthermore, Lara has already announced that he will quit one-day
internationals once the tournament finishes.


"It is unfair to be criticising the team and its captain in the
middle of a series like this," added Gordon who also insisted
that constant calls for Lara's resignation were unjustified.


"Let's face it. He was put there by the management, and I would
be prepared to take whatever responsibility for it when the time
comes."


Gordon told the newspaper that for too long West Indies cricket
had depended on raw talent and not much else.


"We all know that on its best day this team can beat anybody, but
the reality is that the team is not enjoying its best days. We
have come from very far. We had hoped to get back closer to the
top but it has not happened," he said.


"We continue to send extraordinarily talented youngsters out
there almost as sacrificial lambs."

