

International relief agency Oxfam on Friday urged the European
Union to lift a year-long suspension of aid to the Hamas-led
government as the Palestinian people sink deeper into poverty.


"Europe's foreign ministers should not miss the opportunity of
their forthcoming meeting ... to restore the faith of
Palestinians in the European Union," Oxfam International
Executive Director Jeremy Hobbs said.


The ministers were due to hold their talks on April 23 and 24 in
Luxembourg.


"Despite welcoming the national unity government, the European
Union has failed to restore aid payments," he added in a
statement from the British charity.


"With Palestinian institutions collapsing and insecurity growing,
the resumption of international aid to the Palestinian Authority
is a necessary step to preventing further suffering and securing
a just and lasting settlement on the basis of international law."


The EU was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian government
until the Hamas militants came to power in March 2006.


The Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the European Union, the
United States, the United Nations and Russia -- then suspended
direct aid to the Palestinian Authority.


Since then, the 27-nation EU has redirected its aid, worth 700
million euros (943 million dollars) in 2006, through a special
mechanism to help the neediest people while bypassing the
government to avoid contact with Hamas.


Hobbs said that suspending aid and withholding tax revenue was
both unethical and ineffective as a policy tool.


"Parents have been driven into debt, children taken out of
classrooms and whole families deprived of access to medicine and
healthcare," he added.


A survey commissioned by Oxfam from the Palestinian Centre for
Public Opinion (PCPO) found that more than four out of five of
677 families interviewed have seen a drop in their income
following the boycott.


Half of all the families reported losing more than half their
income, a statement from Oxfam said.


The PCPO survey also found that essential services have been
brought to meltdown.


Ninety percent of the senior managers running schools, hospitals
and water services across the West Bank and Gaza reported that
services had been undermined by the boycott.


"Half of the essential service managers reported that they have
cut their vital services by 50 per cent or more because of
insufficient funding," the Oxfam statement said.

