

US President George W. Bush on Thursday strongly condemned a
deadly suicide bombing inside Iraq's parliament complex and
assured the fledgling government in Baghdad: "We stand with you."


"I strongly condemn the action. It reminds us, though, that there
is an enemy willing to bomb innocent people and a symbol of
democracy," Bush told reporters after an Iraqi official said two
lawmakers were among the dead.


"Our hearts go out to those who suffered as a result of this
bombing. Our message to the Iraqi government is we stand with you
as you take the steps necessary to, not only reconcile
politically, but also put a security force in place that is able
to deal with these kind of people," he said.


An Iraqi security official, speaking on condition of anonymity
from the scene of the attack, said the suicide bomber, who wore
an explosive vest and carried a briefcase, blew himself up in the
parliament's canteen.


State television reported that three lawmakers were killed, but
the official told AFP that the third victim was a parliamentary
employee.


"The assembly is a place where people have come to represent the
12 million people who voted. There's a type of person that will
walk in that building and kill innocent life. And that is the
same type of person that is willing to come and kill innocent
Americans," said Bush.


"And it's in our interest to help this young democracy be in a
position so it can sustain itself and govern itself and defend
itself against these extremists and radicals," he said hours
after the attack.


"The flesh of the suicide bomber was scattered across the
cafeteria. There was blood everywhere on the floor," the Iraqi
official told AFP.


MP Mohammed Awad, who is a member of the National Dialogue Front,
a Sunni Arab party which has 11 seats in the 275-member
parliament, was among the dead, the official told AFP.


The official said the other lawmaker killed was a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, the second biggest grouping represented in
parliament after the main Shiite Muslim alliance.


However, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, also a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, could not confirm that when contacted by AFP.


Another 20 people, around 10 MPs and 10 security officials, were
wounded in the blast and all the casualties were taken to the Ibn
Sina, the US military hospital inside the heavily guarded Green
Zone compound.

