

A proposed global subsidy for malaria drugs would ensure the poor
could afford the only effective treatment for the disease which
kills a million people a year, 90 percent of them in Africa, a
health conference heard Thursday.


Millions contracting malaria on the continent develop a
resistance to cheap anti malaria drugs like chloroquine, used for
over 50 years, and governments have been forced to come up with
alternative ways to provide the sick with effective medication.


Currently the only effective treatment is a combination drug
based on artemisinin, a plant mostly grown in China.


"Even though the price of new medicines has come down it is still
too expensive for Africa. We need to find sustainable solutions
to raise new money to make medicines available and affordable to
the poor," said Tanzanian Health Minister David Hameli Mwakuysa.


"These drugs are 20 to 30 times more expensive than chloroquine.
The poorest of the poor have no access to these drugs," said Awa
Marie Coll-Seck, executive director of the Roll Back Malaria
Partnership which is spearheading the proposal.


The proposal is currently being put together to be presented to
potential donor countries such as the Netherlands and Britain. A
first draft has already been submitted and it is hoped the
subsidy will get under way by the end of this year or early 2008.


According to Coll-Seck, donors are eager to participate in the
subsidy which will see up to 300 million US dollars making up the
price difference between the cost to buy the medicines and the
production.


Malaria, which kills an African child every 30 seconds, is
entirely preventable and curable, and its symptoms such as
headaches and fever often send patients to pharmacies.


The high cost of artemisin-based combination therapies is
exacerbated when accessed through the private sector.


Currently sold to buyers at one US dollar, and up to 10 dollars
in the private sector, the course of treatment is beyond the
reach of impoverished Africans.


"Malaria is preventable, treatable and curable and there is no
excuse for an African to die of malaria," said Mwakuysa.

