

The United States on Thursday denounced a suicide bombing that
bloodied Iraq's parliament complex, shook Baghdad's fortress-like
Green Zone, and rattled optimism about a US-led security push.


"I strongly condemn the action. It reminds us, though, that there
is an enemy willing to bomb innocent people and a symbol of
democracy," Bush told reporters after an Iraqi official said two
lawmakers were among the dead.


"Our hearts go out to those who suffered as a result of this
bombing. Our message to the Iraqi government is we stand with you
as you take the steps necessary to, not only reconcile
politically, but also put a security force in place that is able
to deal with these kind of people," he said.


An Iraqi security official, speaking on condition of anonymity
from the scene of the attack, said the suicide bomber, who wore
an explosive vest and carried a briefcase, blew himself up in the
parliament's canteen.


State television reported that three lawmakers were killed, but
the official told AFP that the third victim was a parliamentary
employee.


"The assembly is a place where people have come to represent the
12 million people who voted. There's a type of person that will
walk in that building and kill innocent life. And that is the
same type of person that is willing to come and kill innocent
Americans," said Bush.


"And it's in our interest to help this young democracy be in a
position so it can sustain itself and govern itself and defend
itself against these extremists and radicals," he said hours
after the attack.


"The flesh of the suicide bomber was scattered across the
cafeteria. There was blood everywhere on the floor," the Iraqi
official told AFP.


MP Mohammed Awad, who is a member of the National Dialogue Front,
a Sunni Arab party which has 11 seats in the 275-member
parliament, was among the dead, the official told AFP.


The official said the other lawmaker killed was a member of the
Kurdish Alliance, the second biggest grouping represented in
parliament after the main Shiite Muslim alliance. But Foreign
Minister Hoshyar Zebari, also a member of the Kurdish Alliance,
could not confirm that when contacted by AFP.


Another 20 people, around 10 MPs and 10 security officials, were
wounded in the blast and all the casualties were taken to the Ibn
Sina, the US military hospital inside the heavily guarded Green
Zone compound.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice blamed the attack on "the
terrorists and those who wish to stop the Iraqi people from
having a future that would be based on democracy and stability."


Rice's comments came as she met with Republican Senator John
McCain, a 2008 presidential hopeful who has drawn criticism for
insisting that parts of Baghdad are safe enough for westerners to
walk unescorted.


Rice sought to contain worries the blast may be a sign that a
months-old security plan that deployed thousands more US troops
in the Iraqi capital may never quell deadly sectarian violence.


"There will be good days and bad days," Rice said. "But the
commanders are carrying out their responsibilities and working to
try to make the population more secure."


McCain said the attack should not deter the United States from
pursuing its security surge, saying the US public should expect
"more spectacular attacks" on the Green Zone in order to cripple
support for the unpopular war.


"But I don't think that that should change the larger picture
which means we're achieving some small successes already with the
strategy being employed," he said.


White House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe, when
asked if the blast raises questions about the effectiveness of
the US-led security plan in Baghdad, replied, "No, I think it
shows the determination of the terrorists and extremists."

