

The biggest impediment to lowering death rates in Africa is a
lack of more than a million health workers needed to help manage
the continent's health crises, health experts said Thursday.


Health ministers meeting in South Africa discussed a host of
health issues on the continent such as combating HIV/AIDS,
malaria, tuberculosis and getting cheaper drugs, but a lack of
medical staff to implement effective health systems remained the
biggest problem.


"It is the number one health crisis in the world," Lord Nigel
Crisp, former chief executive of England's National Health
Service, told reporters.


Crisp is chairing an international taskforce to tackle the global
shortage of 4.3 million health workers.


Thirty-six of the 57 countries with critical shortages are in
Africa, he said.


With medical training institutions in Africa being neglected
since independence, and declining economies on the continent,
salaries, working conditions and the number of people being
trained have drastically declined.


"Prioritising health has not been on the agenda. People are only
waking up now," said Francis Omaswa, executive director of the
Global Health Workforce Alliance, network of organisations among
them the World Health Organisation (WHO).


While in the developing world people were living longer, needing
more health care, the south had seen a proliferation of new
diseases and the prospects of new epidemics such as avian
influenza meant the crisis needed to be urgently addressed.


Crisp said identifying the type of staff needed, as well as how
to train them, was vital.


While training doctors and nurses took several years, often
medical assistants could be trained relatively quickly to provide
important tasks.


"People are dying for very simple reasons. Medical assistants and
community workers can do things that stop people dying," Crisp
said.


Omaswa said a closed meeting of health ministers Wednesday showed
they were enthusiastic to address issues such as improving the
working conditions of health workers and address factors that
made them migrate to work in other countries.


Lincoln Chen, the chairman of the Global Health Workforce
Alliance said the situation would get worse until more workers
acquired crucial skills and were able to beef up the long-
suffering health networks.


"Its quite obvious that health workers are the foundation of
health systems," he said.

