

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy and his main
rival Socialist Segolene Royal stepped up their campaigns
Thursday as polls showed that the race remained too close to call
ten days from the first round of voting.


Royal, 53, is battling to secure her spot in the decisive May 6
runoff. She faces a challenge from centrist Francois Bayrou, 55,
the third place contender who has been syphoning votes away from
her.


Royal's Socialist Party launched a "10 Days to Victory" operation
to mobilise her supporters in the leadup to the April 22 first
round and ensure that she will face off against Sarkozy, 52, the
rightwing candidate.


"We must succeed in not only explaining the commitments of the
presidential pact but also to explain that a high score for
Segolene Royal will generate the momentum needed to win in the
second round," said Royal's adviser Jack Lang.


A nationwide show of support for Royal was scheduled for Saturday
with rallies to be held in front of town halls across France.


Sarkozy's governing Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) announced
its "72 Hours To Win" operation beginning next Thursday.


Supporters of the former interior minister would "get into
contact with the French people to convince" them to vote for
Sarkozy, said spokeswoman Rachida Dati.


The two frontrunners have been traveling across France, holding
rallies in key cities and towns. Turnout has been high,
highlighting strong interest in the election that will usher in a
new generation of leaders.


A former interior minister who has promised to lead France
through "deep changes," Sarkozy is set to garner between 27 to
29.5 percent of the vote in the first round, according to six
separate polling firms.


Royal, who wants to become France's first woman president, is
trailing with 22 to 25 percent of votes while Bayrou is in third
place with 18 to 20 percent.


"Nicolas Sarkozy appears to be in a strong position to qualify
for the second round but there is a real Royal-Bayrou
uncertainty," said Frederic Dabi, of the IFOP polling firm.


"There are two scenarios that are equally possible: a Royal-
Sarkozy runoff and a Sarkozy-Bayrou runoff," said Emmanuel
Riviere of the Sofres polling institute.


But after pollsters failed in 2002 to predict the victory of far-
right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen as the runner-up in the first
round of voting, none of the commentators are ruling out a
surprise on April 22.


Le Pen himself has repeatedly said that he is confident of
repeating his 2002 showing as polls this time around are
crediting him with a higher score -- at between 13 and 15 percent
-- than in the previous election.


In a runoff, polls have suggested that Sarkozy would beat Royal,
but a Sarkozy victory is less sure against Bayrou.


Royal, a mother of four who won the Socialist nomination last
year against three party heavyweights, is promising to bring to
change to France by preserving the welfare state and raft of
social programmes.


"I am proposing to reform France without brutality. I am
proposing an efficient change instead of the rough brutality of a
forced transition," she said late Wednesday during a campaign
rally in the eastern city of Metz.


Sarkozy, who is due to hold three major campaign rallies next
week, on Thursday won the qualified backing of the influential
British weekly The Economist.


"As he showed in his brief stint as finance minister, he has most
of the traditional French politician's meddlesome economic
instincts," it said, in reference to the 2004 multi-billion
bailout of French industrial giant Alstom.

