

Eight Ethiopian hostages still missing after the release last
week of five Europeans captured with them in the Ethiopian desert
are safe, a rebel leader claiming to be holding them told AFP
Tuesday.


Musa Ibrahim Hamaddu, head of the Afar Revolutionary Democratic
Unity Front (ARDUF) rebel group, said the missing Ethiopians were
alive and well.


"No one has died, they are safe. They are our people - we are
Ethiopians, they are Ethiopians," Musa told AFP in Asmara,
speaking in the Afar language through a translator.


He gave no details of his group's specific demands for their
release but said it had changed its plans to free the Ethiopians
after the Ethiopian government accused ARDUF of being terrorists.


The Ethiopian drivers and guides were abducted with a British
embassy-linked group of three men and two women on March 1 in the
Afar region in northeast Ethiopia. The Europeans were released a
week ago.


Musa warned that future visitors to Afar risked kidnap if they
entered without rebel permission.


"If they come from the Ethiopian side, then yes, they will be
captured," he said, but insisted that the group's conflict was
only with Ethiopia, not with foreigners.


Musa appeared alongside the five European ex-hostages in a video
broadcast Monday on Eritrean state television showing their
release.


In the film, which made no mention of the Ethiopians, the rebel
group said that it had carried out the kidnapping to prove its
existence.


Eritrea has already said that the group was kidnapped by
separatist rebel group ARDUF, which opposes the division of the
Afar people among Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti.


The Ethiopian government on Monday denied that Afar rebels were
behind the abduction despite the Eritrean television pictures,
and once again laid the blame on Eritrea, a claim Eritrea has
vehemently denied.


Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a bitter territorial war between 1998
and 2000 and are still deeply at odds over their border.


Ethiopia said Monday that it had launched a diplomatic offensive
to help free the Ethiopian captives.

