

Global sales of personal computers are expected to increase 10.5
percent in 2007, getting little help from the new Windows Vista
operating system, a market research firm said Tuesday.


Gartner Inc. predicted worldwide PC shipments rising to 255.7
million units in 2007. But because prices are falling this will
mean only a 4.6 percent rise in revenues to 213.7 billion
dollars, the survey found.


"We expect the market environment to be much the same over the
near term as it has been recently," said George Shiffler,
research director for Gartner's Dataquest service.


"Emerging markets and mobile PCs will continue to afford PC
vendors their best opportunities for growth," he said.


"However, falling average selling prices, slowing replacement
activity and further declines in mature market desk-based PC
shipments will keep PC vendors under pressure to rationalize
their operations or exit the market."


Gartner analysts said PC shipments will enjoy, at best, a limited
boost from the release of Microsoft's new operating system,
Vista, launched in January for all customers.


"Vista's effect on PC shipments ultimately depends on the number
of consumers and small and mid-size businesses that find its new
features compelling enough to buy a new PC," said Mikako
Kitagawa, a Gartner analyst.


"While Vista includes a number of interesting features, these
features just don't have enough 'must have' appeal with the
average home and (business) user to spark a significant rush of
new PC sales."


Gartner said it expects a minor increase in sales to the small
number of consumers and small companies that put off replacing
their older systems in anticipation of Vista's release.


However, the vast majority of consumers and firms are expected to
maintain their gradual pace of replacement in the next several
years.


Vista is forecast to have virtually no impact on PC shipments to
larger businesses in 2007, Gartner said. And Vista adoption among
big companies is expected to lag behind that of consumers and
small- and  medium-sized firms.


Gartner analysts expect large businesses to delay widespread
adoption of Vista until at least the middle of next year.

