

The leader of the banned political wing of the Basque separatist
group ETA said Tuesday it would be "an error" to pursue
independence for the northern Spanish region through violence.


"Nobody is seeking, and if they were it would be an error, to
construct an independent state via an armed struggle," Batasuna
leader Arnaldo Otegi told Catalan radio in what appeared to be an
attempt to distance his group from ETA, held responsible for 819
deaths over the past four decades.


"It is not possible to construct an independence project unless
it is through democratic means," Otegi added.


But he stopped short of condemning ETA violence, which the
Spanish government insists must end definitively before a
negotiated settlement can be reached.


Otegi said he was "absolutely certain" ETA shared his analysis
but that he believed the organisation was continuing its armed
struggle "as it considers that currently the democratic
conditions do not exist for an independence project to come to
fruition democratically."


"But that is its opinion," he added.


Otegi's comments came two days before the first anniversary of
the "permanent ceasefire" announced by ETA last March and which
ended with a blast at Madrid airport on December 30 that killed
two men, the first ETA fatalities since May 2003.


In March 2003, Spanish courts banned Batasuna from operating as a
political party due to its perceived links with ETA, but Batasuna
is hoping to be re- legalised in time for local elections at the
end of May.


On Sunday Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said Madrid
would seek to "take steps" to ensure all shades of political
opinion had an electoral outlet, including "those who are
outside" the current framework.


"But we will not take a single step as long as violence
persists," he added.


A weekend opinion poll showed most Spaniards want the government
to relaunch its dialogue with ETA, despite the December 30
attack.


But the poll also showed 65 percent of respondents did not
believe that ETA was willing to renounce violence.

