

World oil prices climbed on Tuesday, the eve of official data
expected to reveal a drop in US gasoline because of rising demand
ahead of the American driving season, analysts said.


Gasoline (petrol) is in focus ahead of the peak-demand season,
beginning May 31, when US drivers throng roads during their
summer vacations.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
gained 20 cents to 60.72 dollars per barrel during electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, added 25 cents to 56.84 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.
The contract expires at the close.


"Crude futures were higher today, on the back of expectations of
lower gasoline inventories in the US during last week, ahead of
peak summer demand," said Sucden analyst Michael Davies in
London.


"The strength in US gasoline has helped to counter recent
weakness driven by concerns about slower growth in the US and
China, combined with OPEC's decision to leave oil output
unchanged."


The US Department of Energy publishes its keenly-awaited energy
report on Wednesday.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish: "Wider concerns over
supply availability ahead of the summer driving season are
maintaining upwards pressure on prices.


"Fast-falling US gasoline inventories, lower imports availability
and very strong US gasoline demand levels are all lending
support."


Dealers added that recovering world stock markets, following a
rout last week, have also lifted investor sentiment.


Prices had closed mixed on Monday, falling in New York but
advancing in London, amid a closely-watched report that forecast
a jump in oil prices in the coming months.


The Centre for Global Energy Studies had said in its monthly
report that prices were set to jump over the coming months after
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided
against an increase to its crude output last week.


The OPEC crude cartel decided last Thursday to keep its daily
output target at 25.8 million barrels, arguing that global supply
levels were healthy.

