

Serbia reiterated its hostility Tuesday to losing Kosovo after a
report that the United Nations' special envoy was advocating
supervised independence for the ethnic Albanian majority
province.


"Any form of independence of Kosovo is unacceptable," a source in
the office of President Boris Tadic told AFP, repeating the
stance of Serbian authorities during 13-month-long talks that
ended in deadlock earlier this month.


The source did not comment directly on an article in the French
daily Le Monde Tuesday, which said UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari was
proposing independence for Kosovo in a confidential report to be
released next week.


"We will comment when it is official," the source told AFP.


"Independence under international supervision is the only viable
option" for Kosovo, Ahtisaari said in the report sent to UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon last week, according to the
newspaper.


The council is to receive the final copy of the report on Monday.


Kosovo has been in limbo under United Nations administration
since mid-1999, after a three-month NATO bombing campaign helped
to drive out Serb forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on
ethnic Albanians, who had taken up arms for independence.


Tensions have since flared into violence periodically in Kosovo
despite the presence in the province of some 17,000 NATO troops.


The Le Monde report appears to support a statement made last week
by Kosovo's ethnic Albanian Prime Minister Agim Ceku that the
envoy's proposal was "as we expected."


"It remains now for Ahtisaari himself... to explain the content
of his proposal to the members of the Contact Group and reasons
which led him to propose independence for Kosovo," said Ceku.


The informal Contact Group of six powerful nations has been
monitoring peace in the former communist Yugoslavia since it
collapsed in a series of inter-ethnic wars last decade.


Russia, a member of the group that has veto power in the UN
Security Council, warned overnight that any discussion of the
province's "outright independence" would be premature.


In the recently completed talks that had been led by Ahtisaari
since February last year, Kosovo's Albanian representatives
sought nothing less than independence.


But throughout the delicate negotiations, Belgrade had insisted
on the involability of its borders under international law,
instead offering Kosovar Albanians broad autonomy.


Serbia and most of its people consider Kosovo -- a tiny southern
province whose two million population is 90-percent ethnic
Albanian -- as the cradle of their history, culture and religion.


In his original proposals, presented to Belgrade and Pristina
last month, Ahtisaari avoided the use of any terminology to
describe Kosovo's future status in the hope of a compromise in
the final round in Vienna.


However he had advised sovereignty under the guidance of a
European Union-led mission, including the right for Kosovo to
have its own constitution, army, anthem and flag, and to join
international organisations.


At the end of the talks on March 11, Ahtisaari said the rival
camps were "diametrically opposed" in their positions.


Belgrade is clinging to the hope that its traditionally ally
Russia will use its Security Council veto to block any resolution
that would affirm Kosovo's independence.

