

An Afghan translator is still being held by Taliban militants
after the Italian journalist he was working for was freed in
exchange for Taliban prisoners, an official and journalists said
Tuesday.


The father of Ajmal Naqshbandi and Afghan journalists gathered at
the steps of the ministry of information to demand the government
"spare no effort" to secure the release of the translator
captured March 4.


Naqshbandi was working for Daniele Mastrogiacomo, who was freed
Monday. The Italian said he saw the Taliban decapitate their
driver.


The fate of the translator has been unclear with some reports
saying Taliban militants were still holding him because they
wanted more of their men freed from government custody.


An advisor in the information ministry, Najeeb Manalai, confirmed
Ajmal had not been released. "I am strongly worried for the
translator who is still in custody of the terrorists," he told
the journalists.


"This is not fair," Naqshbandi's father, Ghulam Haidar, told AFP.
"To release the Italian, they released five Taliban.


"But to release my son they won't release one Taliban. They are
not doing anything. This is wrong."


The Journalists' Defence Committee appealed to the Taliban and
the government to do something, saying people were losing trust
on all sides.


"If the Afghan government does not take steps for the freedom of
its own national, it is going to make the Afghan media and the
people lose trust in the government and international community,"
said committee head Zia Nomia.


By "threatening the life of an Afghan journalist" the Taliban was
"more and more weakening the trust of the Afghan people," said
another member of the committee, Halim Fedaee. "We call on the
Taliban to release Ajmal."


Presidential spokesman Karim Rahimi admitted Tuesday that Taliban
prisoners had been swopped for the Italian but he would not say
how many.


The deal has raised concern with the United Nations and US
embassy in Kabul saying they do not negotiate with "terrorists."

