

Rosneft, the second-biggest Russian oil group, is ready to bid
for remaining assets in Yukos and for takeover targets abroad
with a war chest of 22 billion dollars (16.6 billion euros) from
Western banks which came to light on Tuesday.


Rosneft, controlled by the state, said that it had obtained a
loan of 13 billion dollars from eight international banks and its
wholly owned subsidiary RN- Razvitiye had borrowed nine billion
dollars.


The money has been lent by leading Western banks at low interest
rates of 0.25-0.5 percent for 12-18 months.


"The terms and amounts of these loans are unprecedented for a
borrower on the Russian market," Rosneft said.


The lenders are Dutch bank ABN Amro, Barclays of Britain, BNP
Paribas and Calyon of France, and US banks Citibank, Goldman
Sachs, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley.


The finance increases the scope for Rosneft to buy the remaining
assets owned by Yukos, the former oil empire founded by jailed
tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, thereby strengthening the state's
recovery of control over the energy sector.


Most of the money is expected to be used for this purpose.


The president of Yukos, Sergei Bogdanchikov said: "At the moment,
Rosneft's business model is imbalanced between upstream and
downstream activities. We produce far more oil than we can
refine.


"This is why we are interested in possibly buying assets from
Yukos which will be disposed of at auction."


Rosneft has already played a leading role in dismantling
Khodorkovsky's empire, having acquired on the cheap the main
production subsidiary Yuganskneftegaz. This tripled Rosneft's
production of oil.


Yukos collapsed under claims for tax arrears and Khodorkovsky is
in prison for tax evasion. Many observers suggested at the time
that the moves against the group had been inspired by political
motives, given Khodorkovsky's opposition to Putin.


Some rich assets remain under the Yukos name. Among these are big
shareholdings in Rosneft and in Gazprom Neft, the oil offshoot of
gas giant Gazprom. Yukos also has several big refineries in
Russia.


The main part of this remaining Yukos assets is valued at 26.8
billion dollars. At the beginning of March the court-appointed
liquidator, Edouard Rebgoun, said that the assets would be sold
by August of this year.


Rebgoun was appointed recently to be to the board of Rosneft even
though the biggest asset held by Yukos is a stake of 9.44 percent
of Rosneft stock.


This holding is to offered for auction on March 27 at a starting
price of 195.5 billion rubles (3.44 billion euros).


Apart from Rosneft, it is thought that Gazprom and Russian gas,
insurance and property group Itera and Norilsk Nickel, are
interested together with Chevron of the United States and Italian
groups Eni and Enel.


Rosneft also plans to make acquisitions abroad, in line with
Gazprom and Norilsk Nickel which have made clear that they want
to expand outside Russia.


At investment group MDM Financial Markets, oil analyst Nadia
Kazakova said: "Like these other Russian groups, Rosneft will be
intersted in factories or distribution centres and refineries in
Europe."


But Rosneft, despite obtaining these huge loans, "does not yet
have the financial muscle to make big takeovers abroad," Kazakova
said. "It will take two to three years for that, while it
consolidates its acquisitions from Yukos.

