

Japan lost a second top-rank female executive in as many days
Tuesday after troubled grocer Daiei said it would replace its
high-profile chairwoman with a director from its new business
partner Aeon.


Fumiko Hayashi, 60, who regularly appears in surveys of the
world's most powerful women, will be demoted to vice chairwoman
of the board subject to shareholder approval at a meeting in May,
the retailer announced.


Hayashi, who has already lost the role of chief executive, will
be replaced by Yoshiharu Kawato, a director at supermarket
operator Aeon, which this month agreed to join forces with Daiei
to create Japan's largest retail group.


The announcement came just a day after the chairwoman of Sanyo
Electric, Tomoyo Nonaka, resigned as the struggling consumer
electronics maker grapples with big losses and allegations of
window dressing.


The pair have been two of just a handful of top female company
executives at major companies in male-dominated Japan Inc.


Daiei insisted that Hayashi would continue to hold influence at
the struggling retailer, which was once Japan's biggest retail
chain but fell victim to the bursting of the "bubble economy" in
the early 1990s.


"She will play an important role in the company and be active
with Japan's Chain Store Association as well as overseeing the
progress of customer and employee satisfaction," a company
spokeswoman said.


Hayashi rose up the corporate ranks in Japan to become the head
of the Tokyo operations of the German luxury car maker BMW before
she was tapped in 2005 to turn around Daiei after it was put
under the control of a state bailout body.


Aeon, Japan's largest supermarket operator, is buying a 15
percent stake in Daiei from trading house Marubeni, which became
Daiei's top shareholder after buying shares from the Industrial
Revitalization Corp. of Japan in August.


Daiei has seen an improvement in its fortunes recently, with
operating profits up 19 percent in the nine months to November
after it shut unprofitable outlets as part of a major business
overhaul.

