

The wife of fallen media baron Conrad Black refused on Tuesday to
apologize for calling a Canadian reporter a slut and telling two
other reporters that they were "vermin."


Lady Barbara Amiel Black tried to dismiss the reports when
questioned by reporters on her way into court for opening
statements in her husband's fraud trial.


"It was a private conversation with my stepdaughter," she quietly
told a scrum of reporters.


"I'm not going to confirm the words. They were about specific
journalists. They know who they are. I'm here for more important
reasons," she said.


On Monday, Amiel Black was overheard saying to a Canadian
television reporter "you slut" as she was leaving the courtroom
following legal wranglings that delayed the long-awaited opening
statements in her husband's high-profile trial.


She then turned to two other female reporters in the elevator and
reportedly "You're all vermin. I'm sick of it... I used to be a
journalist and I never door-stepped people."


Black and his wife had until this point largely dismissed the
hordes of media camped outside the courthouse. He would
occasionally toss out a brief answer to a question, sometimes in
French, but would generally walk past in stony silence.


But the intensity and vitriol of some of the coverage has angered
Black, who has lashed out with libel suits and accusations that
the press is ignoring his right to be considered innocent before
proven guilty.


"I've seen myself depicted as a greedy, flamboyant crook who
stole money from his company to finance a pretentious lifestyle
and feed the insatiable materialism of his harridan wife," Black
wrote recently in a column for Canada's Macleans magazine.


"Supposedly reputable journalism seemed like the tabloids, some
of which scraped depths I had not seen before," Black said.


Amiel Black, a spendthrift who once told Vogue magazine "I have
an extravagance that knows no bounds," has spent much of the
early proceedings taking notes in a reporter's notebook and doing
her best to avoid the cameras as she followed her husband in and
out of court.

