

China's Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo took a solid first step toward
their third title at the world figure skating championships here
Tuesday, topping their personal best score in the short
programme.


The veterans, who grabbed the Olympic bronze medals in Turin
despite a spill, turned in a flawless performance, including a
throw triple loop and a triple twist, to the music of Romanza by
Bacarisse, and earned 71.07 points.


European champions Aliona Savchenko and Robin Szolkowy of
Germany, who were beaten into second spot by Shen and Zhao at the
Grand Prix final, trailed in second spot with 67.65 points ahead
of another Chinese pair.


Defending champions Pang Qing and Tong Jian scored 66.75 points
and kept their hopes alive going into the long final event, the
free skate, on Wednesday.


The Russian pair of Japanese-born Yuko Kawaguchi and Alexander
Smirnov followed in fourth spot with 62.07.


"I was surprised because the score was so high. I think we gave
our best peformance although we skated next to last," said 33
-year-old Zhao, who combined with his 28-year-old partner to
triumph at the 2002 and 2003 worlds.


Zhao said he and Shen didn't see the result of the Germans who
were the eighth pair before them, because "we just wanted to be
ourselves."


Their short progamme score was better than their personal best of
70.52 which they scored in winning the Grand Prix final in
Beijing in late 2004.


The couple have won all before them this season: the Cup of
China, the NHK Trophy, the Grand Prix final and the Four
Continents event, and now they intend taking a rest to think
about their future after these championships.


Szolkowy also played down the short programme result ahead of the
free skate in which he said the German duo will pour in "more
feeling, more emotion."


"We did not make mistakes but a little close to one in the triple
Lutz twist lift," the 27-year-old German said. "Our goal is just
to skate as well as we can like we do now in practice sessions."


Pang and Tong, both 27, were recovering from illess and injury
which hampered their season.


They missed the opening Grand Prix, Skate America, in October due
to Pang's kidney problem, and Tong needed 16 stiches on his
forehead after he was involved in a car accident on New Year's
eve. But they managed to finish second at the Four Continents
event.


Tong punched the air at the end of the performace. "It meant we
have come back!" he said. "We are okay now."


China's rising stars Zhang Dan and Zhang Hao, the Olympic and
world silver medalists, were hampered by a cold and trailed in
10th spot.


In the ice dancing, Canadian couple Marie-France Dubreuil and
Patrice Lauzon took the lead after the opening event, the
compulsory dance to the rhumba.


They collected 38.96 points against 37.42 points for defending
champions Albena Denkova and Maxim Staviski of Bulgaria, who beat
them into second spot at the 2006 worlds and the Grand Prix final
this season.


Russia's Oksana Domnina and Maxim Shabalin trailed in third spot
with 37.29 points and European champions Isabelle Delobel and
Olivier Schoenfelder of France were fourth with 37.20.

