

European and US officials met at the World Trade Organisation on
Tuesday to discuss the Airbus-Boeing subsidies dispute, sources
close to the case said, with China's aviation ambitions seen as
increasing the need for clear funding rules.


The face-to-face meeting at WTO headquarters in Geneva came after
China approved a plan to build large passenger aircraft to rival
the US and European giants in the Chinese and international
markets.


The Chinese intervention could act as a spur for both sides to
seek a conclusion, for fear that Beijing could pump billions into
its nascent aircraft manufacturing industry, a source in the US
camp said.


"There is a shared interest to have a set of rules that govern
the financing of aircraft development, not just in the case of
Europe but also of countries that aspire to become large
commercial plane makers, like Brazil, Canada, Russia and China,"
the source added.


The China Daily reported on Monday that Beijing's plan is to
"design and build airplanes that can carry more than 150
passengers and compete with Airbus and Boeing."


Initial estimates showed research and development would cost
between 50 and 60 billion yuan (6.5 billion and 7.7 billion
dollars), the Harbin Daily newspaper said in a report, providing
no source.


Boeing on Monday said it welcomed the Chinese challenge, and that
competition was beneficial to the sector as a whole.


"We always anticipate potential competitors. I don't think it's a
surprise to anybody that a country as large as China might have
ambitions like that," said Mike Bair, head of Boeing's 787
"Dreamliner" program.


Both Airbus and Boeing take comfort from the fact that China is
unlikely to be able to export its new planes until 2020, and that
the market should grow sufficiently by then to allow space for
several manufacturers, the US-linked source said.


The US and the EU launched reciprocal complaints at the WTO over
subsidies to Boeing and Airbus, the world's two biggest civil
aircraft makers, in October 2004.


The US case has targeted government loans to Airbus for the
launch of new aircraft, while the EU has challenged assistance
given to Boeing by US state governments as well as the US Defense
Department and the space agency NASA.


Tuesday's first session of the WTO's special dispute settlement
panel looked at the US complaint initially, the sources said.


The hearing will continue on Wednesday.


In a break from the normal practice of confidentiality, the
session was set to be made public by video broadcast on Thursday
-- but only after officials have reviewed the tapes to ensure
they do not contain confidential business information.


The WTO is set to make its first ruling on the US complaint in
September. The EU's own complaint against alleged US assistance
to Boeing is due to come before the panel on July 11. A ruling
there is expected in February 2008.

