

France on Tuesday became the third EU country to sign an
extradition treaty with China despite concerns from human rights
groups over Beijing's use of the death penalty.


Justice Minister Pascal Clement told Chinese first deputy foreign
minister Dai Bingguo that France would agree to extradite a
suspect in cases punishable by death only on recepit of
"guarantees deemed sufficient by France that capital punishment
will not be handed down or executed."


"Also, this treaty provides specifically for the rejection of
extradition requests based on offences that are considered
political offences or military offences," he said after signing
the agreement.


Spain and Portugal have also signed extradition treaties with
China, and the Franco-Sino accord will have to be ratified by
parliament to come into force.


Amnesty International France had urged Paris not to ratify the
text because of "continuing reports of serious violations in
China, including the use of the death penalty and abusive forms
of arbitrary detention, torture and cruel, inhumane and degrading
treatments."


The Paris-based League of Human Rights and the International
Federation of Human Rights Leagues also issued a joint appeal to
the French parliament to block the treaty's adoption.


"The commercial interests of France do not justify the slightest
leniency towards China," the groups said in a joint statement,
describing China's penal system as "notorious for being one of
the worst in existence".


Rights groups have accused the government of President Jacques
Chirac of taking a soft line on China's rights record as it seeks
to boost business and strategic ties with the country.


Amnesty France said there was "no certainty that a Chinese
citizen extradited one day with the clearest guarantees will not
be sentenced to death at a later date on a different charge."


According to Amnesty, 68 types of offences are punishable by
death in China. The exact number of executions in China is a
state secret but Chinese academics have estimated that 10,000
people are put to death every year.


China's rights record caused waves in the French presidential
campaign in January when Socialist candidate Segolene Royal was
attacked for praising the Chinese justice system during a visit
to the country.

