

The commander of African Union forces in Somalia pleaded on
Tuesday for reinforcements for some 1,500 Ugandan peacekeeping
troops deployed in the war- torn Horn of Africa nation.


AU force commander Major General Levy Karuhanga told journalists
at his Mogadishu airport base that more troops were needed to
help patrol Somalia, where deadly insurgent attacks plague the
capital Mogadishu and the southern port town of Kismayo.


"We haven't been able to fully get the full troops for AMISOM
(the AU force) to be deployed so we are pleading for the member
states of the AU to provide more troops," Karuhanga said.


The AU aims to deploy some 8,000 troops with a six-month mandate
to help Somali forces take control of the country. The first
Ugandan troops began deploying on March 6.


Burundi has offered 1,700 troops but has said it lacks equipment
for the mission. Nigeria has offered 850 troops but has not given
details of their deployment schedule.


Malawi and Ghana are also expected to contribute but the AU is
still far from reaching the proposed 8,000 troops.


The Ugandan troop commander met earlier with AU Commissioner for
Peace and Security Said Djinnit who was in Mogadishu for a one-
day visit during which he held talks with interim President
Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed and Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi.


"We paid tribute to the Ugandans who have shown great commitment
in deploying the first batch of the stabilisation force," Djinnit
said at a news conference, declining to give details of further
deployments.


According to AU officials, the next country to deploy troops will
be Nigeria.


Military hardware and the final deployment of Uganda's AU troops
docked Monday at Mogadishu port, as nearby mortar attacks killed
at least three and injured 12.


Insurgents have vowed to attack the peacekeepers and have already
targeted the Ugandans since their arrival. Two peacekeepers have
been injured and flown back to Kampala.


Dozens of people have died since January when joint Somali-
Ethiopian forces ousted an Islamist movement from south and
central Somalia, including the capital, but suspected Islamist
insurgents and allied factions have responded with deadly
guerrilla warfare.

