

An exhibition devoted to the work of Italian artist Modigliania,
known in Russia as much for his mysterious relationship with the
poet Anna Akhmatova as for his art, opened in Moscow on Tuesday.


"Meeting Modigliani" is the first retrospective of his work at
the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts and will run until June 17.


On display are some 20 paintings, as well as sketches and a
sculpture gathered from private collections and museums across
the world.


Works have come from the Metropolitan Museum of New York (MoMA),
the Tate Modern in London and the Picasso Museum in Paris, the
city where he spent most of his working life.


"We have been waiting for this meeting for a long time," said
Irina Antonova, the Pushkin Museum's director and a Modigliani
admirer, who celebrated her 85th birthday on the exhibition's
opening day.


Modigliani "is a wonderful painter. The beauty, spirit and
humanity of his work warm one's heart," she said.


The Pushkin museum itself possesses two Modigliani drawings, but
no Russian museum owns any of his paintings.


The epigraph to the exhibition is from Akhmatova herself:
"Modigliani's divine side shone through the twilight. He was
unlike any other in the world."


Most Russians got to know Modigliani through Akhmatova, who met
the painter in Paris in 1910 while living there with her husband,
Russian poet Nikolai Gumilev.


She and Gumilev separated in 1918 and he was shot by the
Bolsheviks in 1921.


Modigliani was the prince of Bohemian Paris, a bon vivant and
playboy, but also an alcoholic and drug addict whose life of
excess eventually led to his death from tuberculosis at the age
of 35.


It was his relationship with Akhmatova, the heart and soul of
Russian poetry in the first half of the 20th century, that
secured Modigliani his ardent following in Russia.


"Passion for Modigliani is a Russian illness," the magazine Vlast
wrote in an article on the exhibition.


Between 1910 and 1912, Modigliani drew more than two dozen
portraits of Akhmatova, many of them nudes.


His most famous, an Egyptian-style portrait, was featured on the
cover of many of Akhmatova's books. The 16 portraits she brought
back with her to Russia were destroyed in the Russian Revolution.


A dozen more portraits were discovered in the collection of
Doctor Paul Alexandre, a friend of Modigliani, but it was not
until they were on display in Milan in 1994 that a Russian
identified the model as Akhmatova.


A number of Akhmatova portraits from surviving collections will
feature in the exhibition, as well as a series of portraits of
Modigliani's wife Jeanne Hebuterne. She committed suicide, while
pregnant, the day after his death in 1920.


The exhibition will also feature biographical documents and
photos from the collection of the Modigliani Institute.

