

England coach Steve McClaren was a relieved man on Tuesday as his
squad began gathering for duty ahead of Saturday's crucial Euro
2008 qualifier against Israel in Tel Aviv.


With 11 members of his 23-man squad involved in Monday night's FA
Cup quarter- final replays, McClaren was forced to endure an
anxious morning waiting for news of any injuries to key players.


But all the signs suggested that the likes of Wayne Rooney, John
Terry and Frank Lampard had emerged unscathed from Manchester
United and Chelsea's wins over Tottenham and Middlesbrough.


McClaren could ill afford to have his playing resources further
depleted having already lost his most experienced defender, Gary
Neville, and back-up striker Darren Bent, for a match that could
determine the fate of his squad's bid to reach next year's finals
in Austria and Switzerland.


After losing in Croatia in October and failing to beat Macedonia
at home, England have slipped to third in their qualifying group,
behind the Croatians and Russia.


And despite the good news on the injury front, McClaren has seen
his working time with the players curtailed as a result of
Monday's matches.


A scheduled training session for Tuesday had to be scrapped in
favour of a minimal warm-down, which did at least offer Preston
forward David Nugent an opportunity to get to know his new team-
mates.


The highly-rated Nugent was called up on Monday night as a
replacement for Bent, who was withdrawn by Charlton because of
concerns about a knee injury.


If he plays on Saturday or in next Wednesday's match against
Andorra in Barcelona, Nugent would become the first player from
outside the top flight to win a senior cap since Sunderland's
Michael Gray in 1999.


The 21-year-old, who has found the net 16 times for Preston this
season, would also be the first Preston player to represent
England since club legend Sir Tom Finney made the last of his 79
appearances in 1959.


The upcoming matches may also offer Aston Villa's left-sided
defender/midfielder Gareth Barry a chance to impress McClaren
following his call-up as cover for Neville.


First-choice left-back Ashley Cole is suspended for the Israel
match and his usual deputy, Wayne Bridge, is out injured.


McClaren had initially indicated that he would opt for either
Jamie Carragher or Phil Neville as cover on the left of the back
four, but one of those two could now be required to fill
Neville's boots at right back as Manchester City's Micah Richards
is doubtful with a calf strain.


Watford goalkeeper Ben Foster impressed on his international
debut in a friendly against Spain last month but is expected to
start on the bench as McClaren keeps faith with Tottenham's Paul
Robinson, whose status as England's number one had been seen as
being under threat.


Foster, who has spent two seasons at Watford on loan from
Manchester United, insists he is happy with his current position
in the international pecking order.


"I am happy to bide my time," he said. "It's only my second full
season as a professional, and only my first in the Premiership.


"A lot of people say a lot has come to me very soon, but I'm not
the sort of person to think about wanting to be number one or
wanting this and that.


"I just go in, train each day, work as hard as I can and try to
do as well as I can."

