

A BP oil refinery explosion in Texas in 2005, which killed 15
workers and marked one of the worst US industrial accidents in
years, was due to "safety deficiencies," a US government probe
concluded Tuesday.


The US Chemical Safety Board (CSB) blamed safety deficiencies "at
all levels of the BP Corporation" for the March 2005 refinery
blast which also injured 180 people in its final report into the
disaster.


The CSB was to hold a public meeting later Tuesday in Texas City,
Texas, where the sprawling BP plant is located, to formally
release its findings.


Its board will then vote at the meeting on whether or not to
approve the findings and related safety recommendations.


"We have apologized to those harmed," BP said in a statement in
response to the report.


"While we cannot change the past or repair all the damage this
incident caused, we have worked diligently to provide fair
compensation, without the need for lengthy court proceedings, to
those who were injured and to the families of those who died,"
the firm said.


Following almost two years of sifting through wreckage and
millions of internal BP documents as well as interviewing BP
employees, the investigators' findings were highly critical of
the British energy group.


"The Texas City disaster was caused by organizational and safety
deficiencies at all levels of the BP Corporation," the report
said.


"Warning signs of a possible disaster were present for several
years, but company officials did not intervene to prevent it,"
investigators concluded.


The CSB said BP had targeted the refinery, the third-largest oil
refinery in the United States, for cost cuts prior to the blast
even though much of the plant's equipment was in disrepair.


"Cost-cutting and budget pressures from BP Group executive
managers impaired process safety performance at Texas City," the
report said.


The explosion occurred after a tower at the refinery overfilled,
partly as a result of faulty gauges, spilling highly flammable
liquid into another piece of equipment which triggered a large
explosion and fire.


All 15 deaths occurred in or near work trailers close to the
blast.


The accident resulted in financial losses for BP exceeding 1.5
billion dollars.


The CSB does not issue fines, but BP was forced to pay a 21
million dollar penalty to another US government agency for
"violations" related to the accident.


"Notwithstanding the company's strong disagreement with some of
the content of the CSB report, particularly many of the findings
and conclusions, BP will give full and careful consideration to
CSB's recommendations, in conjunction with the many activities
already underway to improve process safety management," BP said.


The British energy firm has agreed confidential settlements with
the relatives of those killed in the blast and changed some of
its safety procedures in the wake of the blast.


BP has also set aside over one billion dollars for potential
compensation claims from injured workers, and is also donating at
least 32 million dollars to different schools and colleges under
a private lawsuit.


Ongoing Texas court battles have tarnished the image of BP, which
markets itself as a caring, environmentally conscious energy
company, and forced it to fight off legal demands seeking
testimony from its outgoing chief executive John Browne.


Tony Hayward, BP's head of exploration and production, is due to
replace Browne following his retirement on August 1.


The CSB final report followed preliminary findings which had also
criticized BP's safety culture.

