

British filmmakers said Tuesday they were making a feature film
about prime minister Margaret Thatcher's actions in the countdown
to the 1982 Falklands War.


The project comes as Britain prepares to mark the 25th
anniversary of the conflict, which forged Thatcher's reputation
as the "Iron Lady."


Pathe Productions, the BBC and DJ Films have commissioned a
screenplay about the period it took Thatcher to send a naval task
force to evict Argentine occupation forces from the Falkland
Islands in the south Atlantic.


"The proposed film will be a revealing and intimate portrait of
Margaret Thatcher as she battles to save her career in the 17
days immediately preceding the 1982 Falklands War," Pathe said in
a statement.


"The 17-day period is relevant because it was the duration of the
British fleet's voyage to the Falklands," it said.


"During that period, Thatcher had to confront her private fears,
face down the men who doubted her, and forge the image that even
today casts a shadow across the political landscape," it added.


A BBC spokesman, Charles McDonald, said that no director had yet
been named nor a screenplay written. "It's just very much the
start of the whole affair," he told AFP.


London has occupied the territory since 1833 but Buenos Aires
claims the land as its own amid failed attempts at negotiation
over the Falklands' sovereignty.


Following a number of unauthorised Argentine landings on South
Georgia, Argentina's forces under the military government headed
by General Leopoldo Galtieri occupied the tiny islands off its
southern coast on April 2, 1982.


Britain then sent its task force. More than 900 people died,
including 655 Argentines, 255 British troops and three Falkland
Islanders, before Argentine forces surrendered on June 14.


Argentina returned to democracy in 1983. Buenos Aires and London
restored diplomatic relations in 1990.


The Guardian newspaper's film critic Peter Bradshaw suggested a
number of actresses who could play Thatcher in the new film.


He mentioned US actress Sharon Stone, known for steamy role in
"Basic Instinct", as well as Kika Markham, who played Thatcher in
"The Line of Beauty" on television, and Sylvia Sims, who
portrayed her on stage in 1994 in "Half the Picture."


Pathe said the film would be produced by Damian Jones whose
credits include "The History Boys," "Kidulthood," "Millions,"
"Welcome to Sarajevo" and "Gridlock'd."

