

Eleven professional wrestlers have been linked in documents to
the internet drug distribution ring that has produced charges
against 20 people, Sports Illustrated reported.


In a web site posting, the magazine said investigators uncovered
the names while sorting through information seized in raids last
month on Florida firms allegedly prescribing steroids and human
growth hormone over the internet.


Several Major League Baseball players, boxer Evander Holyfield
and others have been linked to the scheme, most issuing strong
denials in response to reports that surfaced in the wake of the
raids.


Arizona doctor David Wilbirt, the magazine reported, was
investigated from 2001 to 2005 for allegedly writing 3,879
prescriptions to patients over the internet, some from the pro
wrestling ranks and better known by stage names.


Kurt Angle, a 1996 Olympic champion freestyle wrestler, allegedly
received prescriptions for trenbolone and nandrolone in 2004 and
2005.


Wilbirt was billed for the steroid stanozolol and another drug
sent to pro wrestling star Eddie Guerrero, who died in 2005 from
what a coroner said was heart disease complicated by the use of
anabolic steroids.


Oscar Gutierrez also allegedly received prescriptions for Wilbirt
for steroids stanozolol and nandrolone while Shane Helms and Adam
Copeland received human growth hormone, Sports Illustrated
reported.


Wrestler Randy Orton, who allegedly received prescriptions for
six different drugs from the same two doctors whose names are
linked to prescriptions for Los Angeles Angels outfielder Gary
Matthews.


Wilbirt, whose medical license has been suspended, told the
magazine, "I don't remember half the stuff you are talking about"
and added "they had done blood work and had laboratory work done
and they had come to see me."


Investigators are expected to deliver names of athletes who
appear in the documents they uncover to sports leagues as early
as next week, although the main focus of the probe is eliminating
distributors not chasing customers.

