

The UN chief mediator for Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari is proposing
independence for the Albanian-populated Serbian province in a
confidential report to be released next week, the French daily Le
Monde reported Tuesday.


"Independence under international supervision is the only viable
option" for Kosovo, Ahtisaari said in the report that was sent to
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon last week.


The UN Security Council, which is to receive the final copy of
the report on Monday, is already split over the status of Kosovo.
Russia has warned that any discussion of the province's "outright
independence" from Serbia would be premature.


According to Le Monde, which published excerpts of the report,
Ahtisaari states that "maintaining an international
administration was not tenable" for Kosovo but that its
"reintegration into Serbia was not a viable option."


"The time has come to determine the status of Kosovo," wrote
Ahtisaari, a former Finnish president who was named in 2005 to
lead negotiations on the future status of the ethnically-divided
province.


"Independence offers the only guarantee against the risk "of
instability, he added. "It's also the only chance for a
sustainable partnership with Serbia."


Under the plan, Kosovo would have its own constitution but would
"for an initial phase" be placed under the international
monitoring of an EU-appointed mission.


NATO forces would continue to be present at the outset and the
Serb minority would enjoy a high degree of autonomy, according to
the report quoted by Le Monde.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


Earlier this month, Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials failed
to agree on future self-rule for Kosovo after more than 13 months
of UN-sponsored talks.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider the plan put forward by Ahtisaari following the failure
of negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians.


In New York on Monday, Russia's UN ambassador angrily criticized
UN envoy for Kosovo Joachim Rucker for "preaching independence"
for the province.


"He delivered a sermon on the inevitability of Kosovo
independence. I thought it was quite inappropriate and said so,"
said Russian ambassador Vitaly Churkin. He added that any outcome
in the Kosovo status talks should be "acceptable to the Serbs and
of course the Albanians."


Churkin, whose country is a veto-wielding member of the Security
Council, charged that the UN mediators "are jumping the gun and
are beginning to advocate outright independence and this is not
good."


But the former US ambassador to the UN and architect of the
Balkan peace accords, Richard Holbrooke, warned in an interview
with a Croatian newspaper published Tuesday that Russia would
bear responsibility for any fresh outbreak of violence in Kosovo
if it blocked the UN plan.


Holbrooke warned in the interview to Jutarnji List that Russian
opposition to the UN plan for Kosovo could provoke "an explosion
of violence" and possibly even reiginite the war.


In his report, Ahtaasari acknowledged that "Kosovo's capacity to
rise to the challenges of protecting minorities, ensuring a
democratic development and economic revival and promoting
reconciliation, remained limited."


Placing Kosovo under international monitoring would be
"particularly important" to ensure the protection of the Serb
minority in the province, "which continues to live in difficult
conditions," the mediator wrote.


International monitors would focus on key areas such as minority
rights, decentralisation, justice and the protection of Serb
Orthodox churches, the report added.


Britain's Foreign Office meanwhile declined to comment on the Le
Monde report.


"The report will be presented to the UN on the 26th of March --
we wouldn't be commenting in advance," said a ministry spokesman.


But he told AFP: "We fully support the UN special envoy and his
draft settlement proposal," noting that "these proposals will
hold out the prospect of a future for all communities in Kosovo.

