

Saudi Arabia hopes its active diplomacy ahead of next week's Arab
summit will yield a breakthrough in Lebanon, Arab support for the
new Palestinian government and agreement to promote stability in
Iraq, a Saudi official said Tuesday.


The formation of the Palestinian unity cabinet will enable the
March 28-29 gathering in Riyadh to work on reviving the Middle
East peace process on the basis of an Arab peace plan, the
official told AFP, requesting anonymity.


He said the oil-rich kingdom was hopeful that contacts under way
to break the deadlock between Lebanon's anti-Syrian parliamentary
majority and the pro-Syrian opposition would produce an
agreement.


That would allow for a "unified delegation" to show up at the
Arab League's first annual summit to be held in the Saudi
capital.


But "we must be cautious because (a deal) might fall through at
the last minute," he said. "What we are seeing and hearing
arouses optimism, but what matters is to reach agreement on the
last points, which are usually sensitive."


Leaders of the parliamentary majority, which is close to Saudi
Arabia, and the opposition led by the Shiite movement Hezbollah,
which is backed by both Syria and Iran, have held a series of
meetings in the past two weeks.


They are trying to end the standoff which began when six pro-
Syrian ministers walked out of the Western-backed government of
Prime Minister Fuad Siniora in November.


Efforts to end the stalemate were stepped up after Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad discussed the crisis with King
Abdullah during a landmark visit to Saudi Arabia on March 3.


The leaders of the regional Sunni and Shiite heavyweights also
agreed to  fight Sunni-Shiite strife, the official Saudi media
said after the meeting, which was overshadowed by the sectarian
bloodshed in Iraq.


King Abdullah met in Riyadh last week with both the president of
Iraq's Kurdish autonomous region, Massud Barzani, and former
Iraqi prime minister Iyad Allawi.


Arab diplomatic sources said Riyadh also hosted meetings of Iraqi
politicians last week, but they could not provide details.


"The important thing is to have a positive Arab role that would
help Iraqi factions reach stability. This is the objective of the
kingdom's contacts," the Saudi official said.


An Arab diplomat told AFP that Saudi Arabia had "reservations"
about the government of Shiite Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and
would prefer to see a cabinet more representative of all factions
and religious communities in Iraq.


According to an Iraqi diplomat, Maliki will not be part of the
Iraqi delegation to the Riyadh summit, which will be headed by
President Jalal Talabani, who is also a Kurd.


The Saudi official said the formation of a Palestinian unity
government joining the Islamist Hamas and the secular Fatah party
under a Saudi-brokered agreement last month "will enable the
summit to discuss ways of providing political and economic aid to
the Palestinians."


Arab leaders can now focus on "formulating a plan of action to
activate the peace process on the basis of the Arab initiative,
which the Arabs concur on upholding without amendments," he said.


The Saudi-authored blueprint, endorsed at a 2002 Arab summit,
offers normalisation of ties with Israel in exchange for its
withdrawal from Arab lands seized in the 1967 Middle East war and
the establishment of a Palestinian state.


Israel objects in particular to clauses on the right of return of
Palestinian refugees.


A Palestinian diplomat said Hamas prime minister Ismail Haniya
will attend the summit alongside president Mahmud Abbas, the head
of Fatah.


An Arab official meanwhile said Egypt is undertaking contacts to
persuade Libya to reverse its decision to boycott the summit, in
which case the Libyan delegation would be led by Foreign Minister
Abdel Rahman Shalgham.


The summit will be preceded by meetings of economy ministers of
the 22-member Arab League on March 25 and then of the foreign
ministers.

