

Islamic separatists have stepped up their attacks in Muslim-
majority provinces in hopes of sparking a broader sectarian and
ethnic conflict, Thailand's National Intelligence Agency said
Tuesday.


Agency deputy chief Sirachai Chotiratana told the cabinet that
the militants were trying to provoke security forces into
escalating the three-year conflict that has claimed more than
2,000 lives in southern Thailand, according to a spokeswoman.


"He said that the militants' strategy is to intensify the
attacks, to provoke government security forces to retaliate, and
to create conditions which could eventually lead to sectarian and
racial conflicts," government spokeswoman Netpreeya Choomchaiyo
said.


Sirachai briefed the cabinet on a recent surge in attacks that
have targeted Buddhists, including a massacre of nine Buddhist
civilians last week.


He warned the cabinet that government would have a hard time
winning cooperation from residents of the region because mistrust
of Bangkok runs so deep, Netpreeya said.


"Southerners believe that it's heroic rather than criminal to use
violence, and the villagers are helping the militants to conceal
their activities," Netpreeya said.


Human Rights Watch earlier Tuesday released a report blaming the
increased violence in part on the government's failure to
prosecute abuses by security forces, including forced
disappearances.


The Defence Ministry paid a total of some 1.2 million dollars in
compensation to relatives of 79 people who were killed when
security forces broke up a protest by Muslims in October 2004.


The incident was one of the single bloodiest days in the
conflict, with 78 people dying of suffocation after they were
stacked in military trucks and taken to an army camp. Seven
others were shot dead as authorities broke up the protest.


The army-installed government, which took power after a coup six
months ago, has made other conciliatory gestures, including a
landmark apology for past abuses.


But those gestures have not succeeded in defusing the violence,
which has escalated sharply in recent months.

