

US researchers have created genetically-modified mosquitoes
resistant to a malaria parasite, raising the possibility of one
day stopping the spread of the disease, a new study says.


The genetically-engineered mosquitoes outbred natural mosquitoes
when fed malaria-infected blood from mice, according to the study
published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences.


The research offers a way of controlling malaria by introducing
the genetically altered insects into the wild and having them
take over from their natural cousins.


The scientists at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland
combined equal numbers of genetically engineered and natural
mosquitoes in the laboratory and let them feed on malaria-
infected mice.


The genetically-altered insects survived in greater numbers and
laid more eggs. After nine generations, 70 percent of the
mosquitoes were genetically-modified compared to 50 percent at
the outset of the experiment, Marcelo Jacobs-Lorena and his
colleagues wrote.


The study suggested that when feeding on malaria-infected blood,
"transgenic malaria-resistant mosquitoes have a selective
advantage over non-transgenic mosquitoes," the authors wrote.


The lab-altered mosquitoes competed equally well with natural
insects when fed non-infected blood but did not outbreed their
natural counterparts in that case, according to the study.


For the strategy against malaria to be effective, transgenic
mosquitoes would have to outbreed the natural insects when
feeding off untainted blood.


Further research was still needed before the altered insects
could be released into the wild, as only a small percentage of
mosquitoes in nature are exposed to malaria, the authors wrote.


Still, the research carried "important implications for
implementation of malaria control by means of genetic
modification of mosquitoes," the authors wrote.


The experiment used the malaria parasite P. berghei, and not the
more dangerous parasite -- Plasmodium falciparum -- the deadliest
of the four parasites that cause malaria in humans.


US researchers announced in December that they had developed an
experimental vaccine that would neutralize the malaria parasite
inside its mosquito host.


The vaccine targets the Plasmodium falciparum parasite inside the
gut of the mosquito, blocking the organism's development and
preventing further transmission of the disease.


Each year 350 to 500 million people are infected with malaria and
700,000 to 2.7 million die from the disease, including more than
a million children in Africa, according to the World Health
Organization.

