

The UN chief mediator for Kosovo is proposing independence for
the Albanian- populated Serbian province in his final report to
be presented to the UN Security Council next week, the French
daily Le Monde reported Tuesday.


"Independence under international supervision is the only viable
option" for Kosovo, special envoy Martti Ahtisaari wrote in the
report sent to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon last week, the
newspaper said.


Until now, Ahtisaari has scrupulously avoided any mention of the
word "independence" in connection with Kosovo's future status,
given the vehement opposition of Serbia and Russia to such a
move.


In Vienna, Ahtisaari's spokesman refused to confirm or deny the
Le Monde report, but said all parties to the Kosovo question
understood that Ahtisaari's proposal was for "supervised
independence" with limited sovereignty.


According to Le Monde, which published excerpts of the report,
Ahtisaari states that "maintaining an international
administration was not tenable" for Kosovo but that its
"reintegration into Serbia was not a viable option."


"Independence offers the only guarantee against the risk" of
instability, he added. "It's also the only chance for a
sustainable partnership with Serbia."


Under the plan, Kosovo would have its own constitution but would
"for an initial phase" be placed under the international
monitoring of an EU-appointed mission.


NATO forces would continue to be present at the outset and the
Serb minority would enjoy a high degree of autonomy, according to
the report quoted by Le Monde.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


Earlier this month, Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials failed
to agree on future self-rule for Kosovo after more than 13 months
of UN-sponsored talks.


The UN Security Council will be asked in the coming weeks to
consider Ahtisaari's proposal following the failure of
negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo Albanians.


Asked to comment on the Le Monde report, a source in the office
of Serbian President Boris Tadic simply restated that "any form
of independence of Kosovo is unacceptable."


In New York on Monday, Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin
angrily criticized UN mediators for "preaching independence" for
Kosovo.


The former US ambassador to the UN and architect of the Balkan
peace accords, Richard Holbrooke, warned in an interview with a
Croatian newspaper published Tuesday that Russia would bear
responsibility for any fresh outbreak of violence in Kosovo if it
used its Security Council veto to block the UN plan.


Russian opposition could provoke "an explosion of violence" and
possibly even reiginite the war, Holbrooke said.


In his report, Ahtaasari acknowledged that "Kosovo's capacity to
rise to the challenges of protecting minorities, ensuring a
democratic development and economic revival and promoting
reconciliation, remained limited."


Placing Kosovo under international monitoring would be
"particularly important" to ensure the protection of the Serb
minority in the province, "which continues to live in difficult
conditions," the mediator wrote.


International monitors would focus on key areas such as minority
rights, decentralisation, justice and the protection of Serb
Orthodox churches, the report added.


Britain's Foreign Office declined to comment on the Le Monde
report, but a spokesman stressed London's support for the UN
special envoy and his plan.


"These proposals will hold out the prospect of a future for all
communities in Kosovo," the spokesman said.

