

Greece and the United States announced a two million dollar
reward on Tuesday for any information on an extremist far-left
group held responsible for an attack on the US embassy in Athens
in January.


The Greek interior ministry said it was offering an 800,000 euro
(one million dollar) reward "to whoever gives information leading
to the dismantling of the Revolutionary Struggle organisation".


This was matched by the US embassy in Athens which said it was
offering a reward of "up to one million dollars or more" and
family relocation to anyone offering information on the group.


Both promised to deal with any information in the strictest
confidentiality. A spokeswoman for the US embassy said its offer
was "parallel" to the Greek reward, adding: "Everything is
coordinated (with the Greek authorities)".


Revolutionary Struggle claimed responsibility for the January 12
attack in which a rocket propelled grenade was fired at the US
embassy building, causing minor damage but no injuries.


In a statement at the time the group said the strike was in
response to the US- led "criminal" war on terror in Iraq,
Afghanistan and Somalia.


A probe conducted by Greek police with the assistance of US
experts has not resulted in any arrests leading to some recent
critical media coverage of the investigation.


Last month, the US embassy denied being unhappy with the course
of the enquiry.


"Recent press reports that the ambassador or any US embassy
official has criticised the minister of public order or the
ministry ... are untrue, " the embassy said in a statement.


"The US embassy again expresses its satisfaction with the
professional response of Greek law enforcement agencies to the
rocket-propelled grenade attack," it said.


The government has been accused by Greek media and the opposition
of letting its anti-terror guard down after Greece broke up the
November 17 extremist outfit in 2002.


Revolutionary Struggle, which first appeared in 2003, has been
responsible for seven incidents in Athens which have left three
people slightly injured.

