

Spanish firms simply want to respect accords surrounding the
stalled Galileo satellite navigation project, a Spanish minister
insisted Tuesday following claims by partners that Spain is
dragging its feet on profitability concerns.


"The two Spanish firms have merely asked that agreements and
initial (participation) percentages be respected and we would
like to see the other parties do the same," Industry Minister
Joan Clos told a news conference.


"Negotiations are currently ongoing and we hope they will unlock
the situation and that Spain will remain" on board the 1.5
-billion-euro (1.95 billion dollars) project meant to be in space
in 2010 and operational from 2011.


Galileo is aimed at breaking Europe's dependence on the free US
Global Positioning System (GPS), used aboard many cars, boats and
aircraft.


The project links Britain's Inmarsat, the European EADS
consortium, French firms Thales and Alcatel, Spain's Hispasat and
Aena and Italy's Finmeccanica.


Last week, a British industry insider, speaking on condition of
anonymity, accused Spain's Hispasat of being behind the delays.


"It is Hispasat of Spain which is causing the block, nobody
else," the source said.


"They are demanding work that has already been allocated to
France, Germany and Britain. They are demanding a new ground
station as well, and they are demanding more of the satellite
building work and the operational value of Galileo."


A French source also pointed the finger at the Spanish.


Neither Hispasat nor Aena commented on the accusations.


On March 15 the European Commission warned it would examine new
ways to complete the system and, in a letter to the European
Union's German presidency, Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot
requested a mandate to study "reasonable alternatives" to the
current consortium of eight private contractors.


Barrot's spokesman said the timetable for putting the system in
place, which would ultimately involve around 30 satellites, had
already been delayed until 2011, and that more slippage was
expected.


The Financial Times newspaper said there were also doubts whether
Galileo could attract enough revenue.

