

Authorities in emergency-ruled Bangladesh said Tuesday they have
found "huge" amounts of undisclosed money in the bank accounts of
dozens of prominent figures caught up in a major anti-graft
drive.


Officials also promised to extend their crackdown on corruption
to tax dodgers, firming up their pledge to clean up the South
Asian nation's politics before reinstating democracy and holding
credible elections.


Badiur Rahman, chairman of the caretaker government's Revenue
Board, did not give a definitive figure on the illicit cash
discoveries, but the leading New Age daily put the figure at more
than 22 billion taka (318 million dollars).


"Our tax intelligence officials have found huge amounts of
undisclosed money in 53 accounts," Rahman said.


The accounts included those of 50 politicians, bureaucrats and
businessmen named last month on an Anti-Corruption Commission
list of graft suspects.


Hundreds more people are also being investigated.


Some of those named had property confiscated after they failed to
meet the commission's deadline to supply details of their
financial affairs and account for their wealth.


The corruption crackdown by Bangladesh's military-backed interim
government has so far led to the detention of at least 45 high-
profile figures, including former ministers.


Those now in custody include Tareque Rahman, son of former prime
minister Khaleda Zia, who figures on a second list of 50 graft
suspects compiled by the security forces but which has not been
made public.


The Revenue Board said tax evaders would also be hunted as of
March 27.


"Our teams will go to these potential taxpayers and would include
them in the tax net if it is found that their incomes fall in the
tax-paying category," Rahman said.


"A huge number of people and business establishments do not pay
taxes to the government. We want to expand the tax net by
including these people. And we want to do it as humbly as we
can," he said.


A senior Revenue Board officer told AFP that thousands of
businessmen were now scrambling to be included in the tax net
after the imposition of the emergency in January.


Business in Bangladesh has been booming since the 1990s but
Rahman said only 900,000 people pay taxes to the government,
contributing to the country's low tax-GDP ratio of less than 10
per cent.


Multilateral agencies such as World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund have said the country needs to increase its tax-GDP
ratio substantially if it wants to boost spending on
infrastructure and poverty alleviation programmes.


Bangladesh has set a revenue collection target of 410.55 billion
taka (5.95 billion dollars) for the financial year ending June
30, but is falling short of the target.


Last month, the interim government cut its annual development
spending for the current fiscal year by more than 15 percent to
220 billion taka because of poor revenue collection.


Bangladesh's interim government took power on January 12, one day
after president Iajuddin Ahmed quit as the head of a caretaker
administration, cancelled scheduled elections and imposed
emergency rule following months of political turmoil.

