

Officials from the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities
have made progress towards holding talks on reuniting the divided
Mediterranean island, President Tassos Papadopoulos said on
Tuesday.


"In the past few days there have been positive developments in
the discussions between representatives of the leaders of the two
communities in realising the July agreement," said Papadopoulos,
referring to deal reached between the communities' leaders in
July 2006 setting out a twin-track process for technical and
political negotiations.


In a written statement, the Cypriot president and Greek Cypriot
leader said that now previous sticking points had been overcome
and agreement reached on contentious issues to be discussed, it
was time for the Turkish Cypriots to re- engage.


"I invite the Turkish Cypriot community leader Mr (Mehmet Ali)
Talat for us to immediately begin implementing the July 8
agreement based on the suggestions contained in the Gambari
letter and the consensus achieved at the representative level,"
Papadopoulos said.


"I honestly believe that starting the July 8 process ... can soon
create a catalyst for solving the Cyprus problem," he added.


Last July, senior UN official Ibrahim Gambari brokered a deal
between the two leaders and, in November, wrote to both proposing
a procedural framework to get them started.


In the deal, Papadopoulos and Talat agreed to start a twin-track
process with technical committees working on day-to-day issues
such as environment and policing, with more problematic core
questions to be tackled in tandem by separate working groups.


Representatives from both sides have been meeting behind the
scenes to agree on a talks agenda and how the various committees
and working groups would be set up.


Papadopoulos said he was prepared to meet Talat a week after the
technical committees were up and running, as suggested by
Gambari.


Cyprus has been divided since 1974 when Turkish troops occupied
the island's northern third in the wake of a Greek Cypriot coup
in Nicosia which sought union with Greece.

