

What is being billed as one of the newest architectural wonders
of the world was to be unveiled here later Tuesday when a
gleaming glass-bottomed walkway jutting out over the edge of the
Grand Canyon welcomes its first visitors.


The Skywalk, a horse-shoe shaped observation deck extending 70
feet over the western lip of the vast chasm in the Hualapai
Indian Reservation, about 120 miles east of Las Vegas, will carry
tourists who will be able to peer straight down 4,000-feet to the
canyon floor below.


Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin and Hualapai tribal leaders will
be among the first to venture out onto the walkway at a 12:00 pm
(1900 GMT) opening ceremony. Architects say the structure is
capable of supporting several hundred people simultaneously and
will not be affected by powerful winds that often roar through
the Grand Canyon.


Weighing around 500 tonnes, the walkway is constructed with four
inch thick glass and is supported by massive steel bolts that
have been driven 46 feet into surrounding bedrock. Giant shock
absorbers will also prevent the structure from quivering under
the weight of visitors, architects say.


The project, which took two years to complete, is the latest
example of Native American tribes seeking to generate income
through tourism. The Hualapai are hoping that the Skywalk will
persuade visitors to come to their remote section of the Grand
Canyon, which previously struggled to lure tourists with its Old
West-style villages and tours.


The Skywalk was dreamed up by Shanghai-born businessman David
Jin. The Las Vegas-based investor is reported to have bankrolled
construction of the 30 million dollar project and under a deal
with the Hualapai will collect up to half of the revenues from
ticket sales over the next 25 years to recoup his investment.


Tickets for the Skywalk, which opens to the public on March 28,
will cost around 25 dollars.


But construction of the project has been criticised by some
Hualapai members and environmentalists, who have said the tourist
attraction has been built on sacred ground.


"We have disturbed the ground," said Dolores Honga, 70. "Our
people died right there. It's spiritual ground."


Environmentalist Kieran Suckling, of the Center for Bio-
Diversity, meanwhile complained about the creation of a gleaming
architectural marvel on the site of one of the natural wonders of
the world.


"The Eiffel Tower is an architectural wonder," he told CNN. "But
do I want the Eiffel Tower on the edge of the Grand Canyon? No."


Sheri Yellowhawk, a Hualapai tribal councilwoman who has been
closely involved with the development of the project, defended
the Skywalk. "Our people have suffered poverty and unemployment
for years. I don't think we can be criticised for wanting to
change that," she said.

