

Fallen media baron Conrad Black is a liar and thief, a prosecutor
said Tuesday in opening statements of a fraud trial in which
Black and three associates are accused of pocketing 60 million
dollars.


"Bank robbers wear masks and use a gun," prosecutor Jeffrey
Cramer told the jury. "But these men wore suits... these four men
committed their crimes by falsifying documents to make it look
like normal business dealings. It was theft. It was fraud. It was
a crime."


Cramer said the crime began when Black's vast media empire began
selling off hundreds of smaller community newspapers in order to
focus on its larger titles like Britain's prestigious Daily
Telegraph, Jerusalem Post and Chicago Sun- Times.


"These four decided they would take the proceeds from those sales
and put them in their pocket," Cramer said.


"It's a couple lies and it's simple... at the end it's as bold as
it can be and nobody knows."


Prosectors charge Black and his associates diverted 60 million
dollars from the sale of those papers by lying to the audit
committee and telling them that the buyers requested non-compete
payments were made to Black, his associates and the companies
they controlled.


"All that money should have gone to shareholders," Cramer told
the jury. "The buyers couldn't care less."


"These are some of the most sophisticated businessmen you will
ever lay eyes on. They knew it wasn't their money," he told the
jury.  "It's the money of the guy who bought stock and put it in
his college fund."


Cramer said this cavalier attitude toward shareholder money
extended into an abuse of perks. He described a trip Black took
with his wife to Bora Bora on the company jet which cost 500,000
dollars.


When asked to pay the company back for the cost of the flight,
Black responded by writing "no such outcome is acceptable" and
"I'm not prepared to reenact the French Revolutionary
renunciation of the rights of the nobility. We are proprietors
after all," Cramer told the jury.


Cramer said Black refused to acknowledge that by taking the
company public he was no longer the owner of Hollinger
International.


He said Black's response to shareholder concern was arrogant and
dismissive, quoting a note in which Black wrote of an "epidemic
of shareholder idiocy."


Black faces a maximum of 101 years in jail on charges of fraud,
obstruction of justice, racketeering and tax evasion.


Also charged in the case are Jack Boultbee, the chief financial
officer of Toronto-based subsidiary Hollinger Inc; Peter
Atkinson, general counsel for Hollinger Inc; and Mark Kipnis,
corporate counsel for Hollinger International.


All four men have pleaded not guilty.

