

Taiwan plans to stage a series of live-fire war games from next
month as part of efforts to assess its defence capabilities
against bitter rival China, the defence ministry said Tuesday.


The announcement came as President Chen Shui-bian cautioned
against China's rapid military buildup and called for the
purchase of more advanced weaponry from the United States, the
island's leading arms supplier.


The planned manoeuvres codenamed "Han Kuang 23" (Han Glory) will
be held between April and May, the ministry said.


Drills on the islands of Kinmen, Matsu and Penghu and in southern
Pingtung county would aim to prevent enemy landings while
exercises in the eastern county of Hualien would focus on defence
of the airport there, it said.


"Hopefully this year's exercises could be done in a more
practical way, like in a war," defense ministry spokesman Major
General Wu Chi-fang said, adding that details have yet to be
finalised.


China considers Taiwan a part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.


In a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Taiwan
Tuesday, President Chen said China's military buildup posed a
threat to Taiwan and the region.


"In the face of the fast military expansion of the authoritarian-
ruled China... the arms buildup has exceeded its self-defence
needs and seriously menaced the neighbouring countries," Chen
said.


"As China is one-party ruled, and in order to divert its internal
conflicts, it may launch an invasion. Such risk must not be
ignored," he said.


China recently announced it would increase its military spending
17.8 percent to about 45 billion US dollars in 2007.


Chen assured that Taiwan would beef up its self-defence
capability while renewing a pledge first made in 2000 that he
would not declare independence, change Taiwan's official name as
the Republic of China or seek a referendum on independence.


Defence Minister Lee Jye said last week the island needed to buy
more advanced weaponry to counter the threat from China's rapid
military buildup, which he said had seen Taiwan gradually lose
its air and naval superiority.


Lee said China had stockpiled more than 900 ballistic and cruise
missiles aimed at the island, with the number increasing at a
rate of 75 to 100 a year.


Washington has expressed concern about China's hike in military
spending, warning it was "inconsistent" with Beijing's policy of
peaceful development.


Tensions between Taiwan and China have escalated since the
independence-leaning Chen Shui-bian was elected president in
2000. He was narrowly re-elected in 2004.

