

The United States has pledged to help Vietnam build a nuclear
power plant if the country switches to non-weapons-grade uranium
in its test reactor, a Vietnamese diplomatic source said Tuesday.


Washington was ready to help its former enemy turned trading
partner meet its burgeoning energy needs but wanted to ensure it
does not produce high-grade radioactive material that could fall
into the wrong hands, the source said.


"The United States doesn't want to have a second North Korea in
the Asia Pacific," said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of
anonymity in Hanoi.


The nuclear issue was a major theme of last week's Washington
meeting between US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and
Vietnam's Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Pham Gia
Khiem, the source said.


"The United States agreed with the Vietnamese proposal to help it
build its first nuclear power plant in order to meet its rising
electricity needs," said the diplomat. "Vietnam lacks power and
demand is growing rapidly."


A US embassy official in Hanoi said: "We've had a lot of broad-
based discussions about various nuclear issues and providing
assistance and cooperation to the Vietnamese, but there is no
formal agreement at this point."


Earlier Tuesday, the US said Vietnam had agreed to convert its
Soviet-built Dalat research reactor, located about 250 kilometres
(150 miles) northeast of Ho Chi Minh City, from high- to low-
enriched uranium fuel.


Vietnam would also "move forward with the repatriation of
Russian-origin highly enriched uranium fuel" under an agreement
with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), said a
statement issued by the US embassy.


Vietnam -- which saw economic growth of more than eight percent
last year and where annual energy demand is growing twice as fast
-- has said it wants to build by 2015 a nuclear power plant that
would produce electricity from 2020.


Atomic energy officials in Vietnam have said in the past that
potential suppliers of the nuclear reactor, likely to be located
in central Vietnam, included the United States, Russia, France,
Japan and Canada.


The US statement Tuesday said its Department of Energy and
Vietnam's Ministry of Science and Technology had signed contracts
"to further enhance security at the Dalat research reactor and at
three radiological facilities in Vietnam to protect materials
that could be used for harmful purposes."


The US National Nuclear Security Administration would work with
Vietnam and Russia to "repatriate the Russian-origin fuel from
Vietnam and begin to convert the Russian-supplied research
reactor" from highly- to low enriched uranium.


The steps had been agreed during US President George W. Bush's
November visit to Vietnam.


In December, during a visit to Hanoi by IAEA chief Mohamed
ElBaradei, Vietnam reiterated its pledge to build a peaceful
nuclear programme and abide by the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty.

