

Colombia on Tuesday called for the extradition Chiquita
executives after the banana giant admitted in US court to making
payments to an illegal paramilitary group.


"We believe extradition is appropriate, after this agreement,"
chief prosecutor Mario Iguaran told RCN radio in reference to a
plea deal Chiquita Brands International Inc. made in a US court
last week.


The company agreed to pay a 25 million dollar fine after pleading
guilty to one count of engaging in transactions with a designated
global terrorist group. Chiquita was accused of paying a total of
1.7 million dollars to the right-wing United Self-Defense Forces
of Colombia (AUC).


Several countries, including Colombia and the United States,
consider the AUC a terrorist organization.


The AUC often requests protection money from large companies, but
Iguaran said the links between the group and Chiquita went far
beyond that.


"It was a criminal relationship, money and weapons in exchange
for the bloody pacification of Uraba" -- the northeastern region
where the fruit company operates -- said Iguaran.


He also insisted the fine paid by the company should be sent to
Colombia to distribute to the families of victims of the AUC.


He said several other companies were under investigation for
links with the AUC.


The US company Drummond Inc, which operates a coal mine in
Colombia, is involved in a lawsuit in the southern US state of
Alabama, on allegations it paid paramilitary squads to kill three
union leaders in 2001. Drummond denies the accusations.


Top supporters of Colombia's conservative President Alvaro Uribe
also have been accused of close links with the AUC.


Eight legislators from the ruling coalition were recently
arrested for allegedly funding the paramilitary squads.


Uribe has repeatedly fought off claims that he himself had links
to the AUC when he was governor of the Antioquia province in the
1990s.


Colombia's paramilitary groups were organized as private armies
in the 1980s, ostensibly to protect landholders from leftist
guerrillas who were extorting "war taxes." The AUC have since
been accused of massacring civilians and of drug trafficking.

