

Ed Joyce has hailed Ireland's performances at the World Cup as
"brilliant" and admits the prospect of the land of his birth
playing England, his adopted nation, in the second phase, Super
Eight stage, would be "quite a spectacle".


The Dublin-born Middlesex opening batsman, who made his England
one-day international debut against Ireland in Belfast last year,
played an important role in his home country's march to the World
Cup.


But an ambition to play cricket at the highest possible level saw
Joyce qualify for England as Ireland does not have Test-match
status.


Now, following Ireland's opening group match tie with Zimbabwe
and their shock three-wicket victory over Pakistan, Joyce's old
side are on the brink of qualification for the Super Eights and a
match against England.


"It was brilliant," said Joyce, who has now played 14 one-dayers
for England but has still to play a Test match, of Ireland's
defeat of Pakistan last weekend.


"My big hope for Ireland coming into this tournament was that
they would do themselves justice," added the 28-year-old, whose
two hundreds and two fifities in five innings during the 2005
International Cricket Council (ICC) Trophy qualifying tournament
were vital to his homeland making their World Cup debut in the
Caribbean.


"It's hard, your first (major) tournament, you might get a bit
over-awed by it. Trent Johnston, their captain has been
brilliant. He's told them what to expect and how to go about
things.


"They've done that really well. They'd never have thought they
beat Pakistan, they knew they had a chance," added Joyce, whose
home country began their World Cup campaign with a tie against
Zimbabwe.


"They've beaten the West Indies in the last few years.The
Zimbabwe game was ther big one. Now they've got three points and
looking like going through to the Super Eights which is
brilliant."


Should both England and Ireland make it through to the second
stage they will start their Super Eight campaign against one
another in Guyana on March 30.


"That was my first game," said Joyce, recalling his England
debut. "It was bit of a strange one for me.


"It will be an interesting contest if they (Ireland) get through
to that stage. It will be a big day. A lot of Irish people have
travelled over. I don't think they expected to get through to the
Super Eights.


"They'll probably all have to take another month off (work) and
get out there. It will be a good day.


"The English fans and Irish fans will get on pretty well. It will
be quite a spectacle. My brother is in Jamaica watching them and
he'd said they'd taken over Kingston and the Jamaicans love them
which is typical of Irish fans."

