

Anti-Syrian MPs gathered in the Lebanese parliament on Tuesday to
demand the holding of a session to ratify the creation of a court
due to try suspects in former premier Rafiq Hariri's murder.


But pro-Syrian parliament speaker Nabih Berri resisted their call
and accused them of trying to sabotage the dialogue between the
rival camps to find a solution to Lebanon's political paralysis.


"But we will remain ready for dialogue, with an open hand in
order to save Lebanon," Berri, a key figure in the Syrian-backed
opposition, told reporters at his Beirut residence.


Berri said his recent meetings with parliament majority leader MP
Saad Hariri had allowed the two camps to agree on all issues, bar
the opposition's main demand for a share in the government that
would grant them veto power.


He was speaking after about two dozen MPs from the Western-backed
ruling majority gathered in parliament to ask the speaker to
convene the first session of the year.


They wanted a session to allow MPs to ratify the convention
between Lebanon and the United Nations for the creation of the
international tribunal.


However, "parliament will not convene as long as the government
is amputated," Berri said in reference to the resignation of all
Shiite members from the government in November.


MP Walid Jumblatt, a leader of the ruling coalition, charged that
Syria and Iran, which back the Hezbollah movement that spearheads
the opposition, were "dictating" to Berri not to convene
parliament.


His camp has accused the opposition of blocking the creation of
the tribunal under pressure from Damascus which has been blamed
for Hariri's February 2005 assassination.


The main bones of contention between the two sides are the
opposition's demand for a veto in the government and the
majority's insistence on the ratification of the tribunal to try
suspects in the Hariri murder.


The convention for the tribunal was passed by the government in
November, but still needs to be ratified by parliament.


The opposition argues that the government's adoption of the
convention was null and void as the body had become illegitimate
since the resignation of all its Shiite cabinet members.

