

Cross-border mergers in the European banking sector, for years
viewed as too complex to be practical, are now seen as feasible
in light of a more favorable regulatory and techological
environment.


But analysts say that even with recent changes in the sector,
emerging market countries are still seen as the most attractive
investment areas for big banks in Europe and the United States.


Major European transactions in recent years have included the
acquisition of Abbey National of Britain by SCH of Spain in late
2004 and last year's purchase of BNL of Italy by BNP Paribas of
France.


But the possible takeover by Barclays of Britain of Dutch group
ABN Amro would constitute a deal of considerably greater
magnitude, creating an entity with a capitalisation of 162
billion dollars (122 billion euros), based on Monday's closing
share prices.


The combined operation would be the world's sixth largest bank
and the second largest in Europe.


While the transaction can be explained by ABN Amro's
disappointing financial results of late, it also reflects an
evolution in the European banking sector.


"Regulation has moved in favour of some cross-border deals,
whereas some markets were previously very protectionist, like the
Italian market," said analyst Robin Down of HSBC Global Research.


The lack of potential synergies, or economies of scale, which the
European Commission in 2005 cited as an obstacle to cross-border
mergers, no longer looms as large as it once did.


"From a cost-cutting perspective, I think there's been a degree
of harmonisation of products and certainly a degree of
harmonisation of IT (information technology)," Down said.


The establishment of shared computer systems needed in a merger
can now occur more rapidly and is much less burdensome.


As a result, analysts argue, a potential tie-up between Barclays
and ABN Amro could spark other similar moves in Europe.


"There could be a domino effect," said Jean-Pierre Lambert, an
analyst with brokerage Keefe, Bruyette and Woods. "Other banks
can say: 'We also want to be part of this.'"


Industry experts have identified Capitalia of Italy, in which ABN
Amro is the leading shareholder with a stake of 8.6 percent, as a
particularly inviting target.


US investment bank JP Morgan has also cited Commerzbank of
Germany and Lloyd's of Britain while other commentators point to
the French-Belgian group Dexia.


But despite an improvement in the business climate, most analysts
predict that cross-border mergers in Europe will proceed at a
measured pace.


"There might be one or two knock-on effects from the ABN deal,"
noted Down.


Added Pierre Chedeville of the bank CM-CIC: "Large-scale cross-
border operations in Europe are in theory limited."


He pointed to the high cost of such transactions and a trend
toward consolidation mainly among mid-level institutions.


For big US banks, such as Citigroup or Bank of America, the
preferred merger or takeover targets are likely to be found in
Asia, where competition in the banking market is less intense.


"Their primary focus has been on emerging markets," Down said.
"They turn around and say; 'why would you want to buy, let's say,
a UK business, where the market is very mature and the
competition is very intense, when you could buy a bank in China
or Korea."


Industry analysts have said that for banks both in Europe and the
United States, possibilities are considered brightest in eastern
Europe, the Mediterranean basin and Asia, where growth is robust.

