

A senior US Chamber of Commerce representative said Tuesday he
was disturbed by Thailand's recent decision to break patents on
key drugs, a move he said could impact already-shaky investor
confidence.


Daniel Christman, the chamber's senior vice president for
international affairs, was in Thailand to discuss investor
concerns following a raft of divisive economic policies
introduced by the kingdom's post-coup government.


"Maybe the climate, that has been generally hospitable in
Thailand, might be changing towards foreign investors in general
and American investors in particular," he said.


The key issue on the table was Thailand's decision to issue so-
called "compulsory licenses" for three drugs -- this means
temporarily suspending a patent and allowing cheaper, generic
versions into the market.


The move jolted pharmaceutical companies, but the World Trade
Organisation allows countries to issue such licenses to protect
public health in an emergency.


Few countries have used this provision, but Thailand has since
November issued licenses for two anti-AIDS drugs -- Efavirenz and
Kaletra -- and popular heart disease medicine Plavix.


"Disturbingly, what I take away from this is a recognition that
compulsory licensing action, which has been treated generally as
an exception in cases of true medical emergency...  are being
viewed by Thai officials as standard operating procedure,"
Christman told reporters.


"If that were the case that would be a very worrisome signal to
the rest of the international community."


He said the aim of his two-day trip to Thailand was to meet
senior ministers and reinstate dialogue between the government
and drug companies.


Tensions escalated last week when Chicago-based Abbott
Laboratories, which makes Kaletra, said it would not market new
drugs in Thailand to protest the override of its patent.


"What we are trying to do is lower the temperature, get folks in
the room," Christman said.


The US Chamber of Commerce also released results of a survey of
234 international business executives, which found that investor
confidence was shaken by bloodless coup here last September.


Since coming to power, the government has introduced strict
capital controls and proposed changes to the Foreign Business Act
that would limit foreign investor holdings in shares and the
voting rights of local companies.


The survey found that 75 percent of participating executives said
the coup and the subsequent economic policies would be a factor
in their decision to invest in Thailand in the coming three
years.


"I think all of us are sensitive to the situation that Thailand
faces right now and the politics of the moment," Christman said.

