

Uzbek Al-Qaeda militants and pro-government tribesmen in
northwest Pakistan fought pitched battles that left around 30
people dead including four children, officials said Tuesday.


Heavy exchanges of rocket and mortar fire broke out on Monday and
continued on Tuesday in Kalusha town in the troubled tribal
region of South Waziristan, which borders Afghanistan, security
officials said.


"My reports are that around 30 people have been killed in clashes
between local tribesmen and militants," Pakistan military
spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad told AFP.


"There are some foreign militants fighting in the area but we do
not know their nationalities," he said.


However security officials said the fighting started after former
Taliban leader Mullah Nazir, who backs the government's moves to
expel foreign fighters from the area, ordered followers of Uzbek
militant Tahir Yuldashev to disarm.


Yuldashev, the head of a group called the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan, was sentenced to death in absentia for bombings in
the Uzbek capital Tashkent. Security officials say he had links
to Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.


One shell hit a group of private school students who had been
left outside the town by a bus driver because of the violence.
Four were killed and 27 were wounded, the officials said on
condition of anonymity.


Seven local tribesmen, including some of Nazir's men, were
killed, as well as 13 supporters of Yuldashev, the officials
added, saying another 22 Uzbeks were detained.


Meanwhile more than 2,000 Uzbek militants and their supporters
blocked the road from Wana, the main city in South Waziristan, to
the town of Angoor Adda in order to "show their strength against
their rivals," officials said.


The local administration gave them a 48-hour ultimatum to end the
blockade otherwise military action would be started against them,
the officials said.


However military spokesman Arshad said the army would not step
in. "No, it is a clash between tribesmen and militants, the
military did not intervene in previous clashes," he said.


The fighting ended a ceasefire negotiated about two weeks ago
after 19 people died in fierce gunbattles between Yuldashev's
supporters and tribesmen in the nearby town of Azam Warsak.


Yuldashev and his men were among thousands of militants who fled
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and sought
shelter with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
tribal belt along the border.


Officials said Yuldashev was injured during major battles with
Pakistani forces in the Azam Warsak area in March 2004.


Pakistan has signed peace deals with elders and militants in the
South and North Waziristan regions after military offensives
against Taliban and Al-Qaeda members, including Uzbeks.


Islamabad's Western allies have criticised the deals for giving
the Taliban and Al-Qaeda space to regroup and mount attacks in
Afghanistan.

