

Anti-Syrian MPs gathered in the Lebanese parliament on Tuesday to
demand the holding of a session to ratify the creation of a court
due to try suspects in former premier Rafiq Hariri's murder.


"We came to parliament to request the opening of an ordinary
session in order to allow MPs to ratify the convention between
Lebanon and the UN for the creation of the international
tribunal," MP Antoine Andraos told AFP.


He was among about two dozen MPs from the Western-backed ruling
majority who came to parliament to ask house speaker Nabih Berri,
a key figure in the Syrian- backed opposition, to convene the
first session of the year.


"Parliament is the place for dialogue. Dialogue only takes place
here, and it is here where the fate of the international tribunal
will be decided," said MP Walid Jumblatt, a leader of the ruling
coalition.


"We do not want other countries, such as Syria and Iran, to
dictate to him (Berri)" not to convene parliament, Jumblatt said.


Jumblatt said the ruling majority would only accept "amendments
in the form, not in the content" of the convention for the
creation of the international court.


His camp has accused the opposition of blocking the creation of
the tribunal under pressure from Damascus which has been blamed
for Hariri's February 2005 assassination.


Berri and parliamentary majority leader MP Saad Hariri, son of
the murdered prime minister, have held several rounds of talks
over the past two weeks.


The meetings sparked hopes of a breakthrough in the standoff
which began with the resignation of six pro-Syrian ministers from
the cabinet of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora last November.


The main bones of contention are the opposition's demand for a
veto in the government and the majority's insistence on the
ratification of the tribunal to try suspects in the Hariri
murder.


The convention for the tribunal was passed by the government in
November, but still needs to be ratified by parliament.


The opposition argues that the government's adoption of the
convention was null and void as the body had become illegitimate
since the resignation of all its cabinet members from the Shiite
community.

