

Britain has banned its armed forces from using "dumb" cluster
bombs in order to cut the number of civilians killed and maimed
by them, the Ministry of Defence said Tuesday.


In future, British troops will only be allowed to use "smart"
cluster bombs with features such as self-destruct mechanisms if
they fail to explode on initial impact.


Charities have long argued for a ban on cluster bombs -- devices
containing hundreds of small bomblets which disperse over a large
area -- because they can leave a deadly legacy for years after
the end of conflicts.


But, while welcoming the ban, a spokesman for one charity said
ministers should have gone further still.


"It is our duty to make sure our forces have the equipment they
need to do the job we ask of them," Defence Secretary Des Browne
told parliament in a written statement.


"At the same time, we should strive to reduce civilian casualties
to the minimum.


"Military commanders are first to point out that modern conflicts
are in large part about winning hearts and minds."


Browne added that he hoped other countries would now follow
Britain's lead.


Simon Conway, director of Landmine Action, said there was no
clear definition of what constituted "smart" and "dumb."


"If ministers are serious in their commitment to protect
civilians, they should acknowledge that adding a self-destruct
mechanism to a bomb does not make it smart," he said.


"Southern Lebanon is littered with Israeli bomblets with self-
destructs that failed."


Last August, then United Nations secretary-general Kofi Annan
strongly criticised Israel for using cluster bombs during its
attacks on the Hezbollah militia.


The UN's humanitarian chief, Jan Egeland, said Israel dropped
hundreds of cluster bombs in the final days of the month-long
conflict before a ceasefire.


Britain's Ministry of Defence predicted that the ban would lead
to the destruction of 28 million of the tiny munitions contained
in cluster bombs.


At a conference in Norway last month, 46 countries pledged to
seek a treaty banning cluster bombs by next year, with France and
Britain among the nations which signed up.


Japan, Poland and Romania refused to sign the accord, while
Israel and the United States did not take part in the conference.


Belgium banned the use of cluster munitions last year.

