

State officials on Tuesday served a quit and demolition notice on
a court hearing a Nigerian vice president's appeal against his
exclusion from next month's presidential elections.


The Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) served the
document on the Federal High Court of Abuja, where Atiku Abubakar
filed suit Friday to challenge his disqualification from the
poll.


Although it is common knowledge that the courthouse was built
illegally, Abubakar's camp saw the timing of the FCDA's order as
suspicious.


His spokesman, Garba Shehu, said the notice would "not only
affect our case, it will affect democracy in this country."


Abubakar's candidacy for the April 21 poll was thrown out by the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last Thursday,
provoking protests the following day by hundreds of his
supporters.


The commission ruled that Abubakar was barred by law because he
had been indicted on corruption charges in September 2006.


Officials served the demolition notice on the court early in the
morning, before the hearining into Abubakar's suit had begun.


"You are hereby ordered to vacate this site you are illegally
occupying," the FCDA warned in the notice posted on the entrance
to the court premises.


"Failure to comply will lead to demolition of your structures and
legal action will be taken against you," it added. "Please quit
immediately."


The deputy registrar of the court, Ayo Emmanuel, said he was
"shocked and surprised" at the quit notice.


"We will watch the situation to know what to do but presently we
don't have an alternative place for the court," Emmanuel said.


Nevertheless Lagos-based human rights lawyer Femi Falana told AFP
that relocating the court did not present any legal problem.


"Wherever a court sits is legally recognised as a court, even if
it is a classroom," he said.


Abubakar's supporters say his exclusion from the election is
politically motivated by his enemies within Nigeria.


The corruption case against him came after he fell out with
President Olusegun Obasanjo, who vowed that Abubakar would not
succeed him.


At the begining of the Tuesday's hearing, Judge Tijani Abubakar
granted Abubakar's request for an accelerated hearing of the case
and adjourned the case until Friday.

