

North Korea refused to attend a session of six-party talks on
dismantling its nuclear programmes Tuesday while it awaits the
return of 25 million dollars in frozen assets, diplomats said.


The refusal meant negotiators at the talks in Beijing were unable
to make the progress they had wanted, but a South Korean diplomat
insisted the problem would soon be resolved.


"According to the chairman, China, North Korea says they will not
come to the gathering until they confirm the transfer of the
money," Japan's top nuclear negotiator, Kenichiro Sasae, told
journalists here.


"In conclusion, there was no progress today (Tuesday)."


Chinese foreign ministry officials also confirmed that the
plenary session scheduled for Tuesday afternoon had been
postponed, but they refused to give the reasons.


The US Treasury had announced Monday that about 25 million
dollars in North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank could be
released, although no timeframe was given.


The announcement, ending a dispute that had held up the
disarmament process, added an air of optimism as envoys met
Monday in Beijing for the latest round of talks.


Although North Korea welcomed the US decision, it had made clear
it wanted the money safely back in its hands before going any
further in the six-party process, according to a pro-Pyongyang
newspaper in Japan.


"The DPRK (North Korea) insists that the issue will be fully
resolved only when the release of frozen funds is confirmed," the
Chosun Sinbo said on its website on Tuesday.


A South Korean official involved in the six-nation talks said the
chief envoys from North Korea and the United States met
bilaterally on Tuesday, and that the money was expected to be
delivered very soon.


"The issue is expected to be resolved tonight at the earliest or
early tomorrow morning at the latest. We expect to have
substantive discussions tomorrow," the official told reporters.


The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he had
based his remarks on comments made by chief North Korean envoy
Kim Kye-Gwan.


Authorities in Macau, where the money has been frozen since 2005,
said on Monday they would release the money to a North Korean
bank account in Beijing, but did not say when.

