

British troops in Afghanistan have changed tactics, targeting top
Taliban leaders in order to counter their switch to a new wave of
bombings and suicide attacks, a senior commander said on Tuesday.


Lieutenant General Nick Houghton, the chief of joint operations,
said British forces were attempting to drive a wedge between
Taliban chiefs and ordinary Afghans.


Taliban militia have seemingly ditched their tactics of last
summer, when they suffered heavy casualties attacking heavily
defended British positions, Houghton told the defence committee
of parliament's lower House of Commons.


"Increasingly, the switch this year has been towards the Taliban
not taking on this tactic of mass attack but adopting a more
asymmetric approach -- the utilisation of improvised explosive
devices, suicide bombers, that sort of thing," he said.


"What we are attempting to do is use a far more intelligence-
focused approach to the elimination of key Taliban leaders.


"We recognise that the (wholesale) eradication of the Taliban is
not a sensible option. That alienates the public, locally and
internationally.


"Therefore, to attempt to dislocate the key Taliban leadership
and attempt to drive a wedge between the irreconcilable, tier one
Taliban leadership and the local potential Taliban fighters, that
is the nature of the tactic we are following."


Defence Secretary Des Browne told the committee that the Taliban
may have been forced to switch tactics because they were
suffering too many casualties.


Afghanistan's Islamic hardline former rulers were ousted from
power by US-led forces in late 2001.


The new British tactics were designed to send "a very clear
message to the people who do the fighting in the numbers that
their leadership is not invulnerable and is capable of being
arrested or killed by us," Browne said.


Browne added that he was preparing to send more helicopters to
Afghanistan.


Britain has pledged an extra 1,400 troops for Afghanistan, taking
the country's contingent in the NATO-led International Security
Assistance Force to 7,700.


Most of Britain's forces there are based in the restive southern
Helmand province.


Fifty-two British troops have been killed in Afghanistan since
the Taliban were overthrown.

