

Hong Kong health authorities are investigating the case of a
nine-month-old girl infected with a strain of bird flu after
similar past cases, health officials said Tuesday.


Centre for Health Protection head Thomas Tsang said it was the
third time the H9N2 virus has been detected in humans in Hong
Kong.


A five-year-old boy was infected with the virus in 2003 and in
1999, two girls aged four years and 13 months were infected but
all three children recovered.


H9N2 usually causes mild symptoms in humans similar to common
influenza viruses.


The Hospital Authority said it was "very concerned" about the
case.


It said the girl had been isolated at Princess Margaret Hospital
and was being monitored, although her condition was stable, with
mild symptoms of a runny nose.


United Christian Hospital, which had treated and released the
girl earlier, would conduct a review of all health care workers
who had been in close contact with the girl, the authority said
in a statement.


"A special meeting of the authority's Central Committee on
Infectious Disease (CCID) was held this afternoon (Tuesday).
During the meeting, experts ... discussed the related risk
assessment and existing infection control measures," it said.


Tsang said the girl was admitted to the United Christian Hospital
on March 6 after developing symptoms of upper respiratory tract
infection and fever on March 4. She was discharged on March 9.


The doctor said tests Tuesday showed the influenza A (H9N2)
virus.


"Further genetic sequencing is being conducted to determine if
the virus is completely of avian origin," he said in a statement.


"This is an isolated case and the source of infection is being
investigated. Based on previous experience, however, we will look
especially into bird-to- human transmission," he said.


The Centre for Health Protection said the girl had not travelled
outside Hong Kong recently, and her family members had no flu
symptoms.


The deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has killed more than 160
people worldwide since 2003, mostly in Southeast Asia, according
to the World Health Organisation.


Scientists fear it could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.

