

Wall Street got a modest lift Tuesday from a report showing a
surprise rebound in housing starts, but trading was cautious
ahead of the outcome of a two-day Federal Reserve monetary policy
meeting.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted up 20.67 points (0.17
percent) to 12,246.84 at 1535 GMT, after a strong gain of over
100 points in the prior session.


The Nasdaq composite added 8.56 points (0.36 percent) to 2,402.97
while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index increased
3.58 points (0.26 percent) to 1,405.64.


Stocks went up after the Commerce Department reported that US
housing starts rebounded an unexpected nine percent in February
following a hefty slump in the month before.


But starts are still down significantly from a year earlier amid
a downturn in the nation's housing market.


Dick Green at Briefing.com said the report might be a statistical
aberration after a 14.3 percent plunge in January.


"The data are thus not nearly as bad as feared," he said.
"Housing clearly remains weak and in a corrective mode, but there
is no sign of a crash."


The housing report was released as Fed policymakers gathered in
Washington for their two-day meeting starting later Tuesday. Most
economists expect the central bank to keep its short-term
interest rate pegged at 5.25 percent.


Green said there are "no expectations" of a rate cut but markets
are pricing in a quarter-point reduction in the funds rate by
August.


"The markets are hoping that there is some indication from the
Fed in the statement tomorrow (Wednesday) that the Fed is at
least leaning towards easing," he said.


"A change in the policy statement would have to present a bias
towards easing to provide a real boost to the stock market.


"We expect at best a balanced statement that doesn't provide the
fuel for a sustainable rally."


Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said he was optimistic in light of
the market's recent resilience.


"We continue to expect the stock market to perform its own form
of 'March madness,' moving up and down in a fairly tight trading
range, but favoring market bulls," he said.


"The fact that a 120 point rally did not bring out the bears is a
favorable short-term sentiment indicator. The bears obviously
think stock prices are going higher near term.


"We are more comfortable with the global markets which have
settled down and set the tone for price stability in our stock
market."


Among stocks in focus, Affiliated Computer Services rallied 8.82
dollars or  17 percent to 60.11 after founder Darwin Daeson
agreed to sell the technology group to an equity group headed by
Cerberus for 8.2 billion dollars.


Computer memory maker SanDisk rallied two dollars to 41.99 on a
positive brokerage note.


In the pharmaceutical sector, Bristol-Myers Squibb added 25 cents
to 27.19 amid fresh reports of possible merger talks.


Bonds firmed. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond eased to
4.543 percent from 4.571 percent Monday while that on the 30-year
bond fell to 4.696 percent against 4.717 percent. Bond yields and
prices move in opposite directions.

