

French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Tuesday that
France's North African minority was an asset to the country, as
debate swirled over remarks on national identity by right-wing
presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy.


"North Africa is fully part of French identity: it is an asset in
our project for society, thanks namely to the millions of French
people of North African descent, who form a natural connection
between the two shores," Douste-Blazy said in a speech on French
ties with the region.


"Successive waves of migration are what shaped our French
identity," said, the minister -- a senior member of Sarkozy's
campaign team -- when asked about Sarkozy's call for a ministry
of immigration and national identity.


Sarkozy's proposal -- unveiled earlier this month -- was
criticised as a ploy to appeal to the nationalist vote, but the
right-winger has insisted a taboo-free debate on such issues is
the only way to stem the rise of the French far-right.


National identity "is not a nasty word, it's just the way things
are," Douste- Blazy said. "What is a country if not, at a given
moment, an identity?" he asked, referring to the contribution of
Spanish and Portuguese as well as North African immigrants to
France.


"It is integration that is the important word," he said.


France does not allow the gathering of statistics on ethnic
groups, but the number of North African immigrants and their
French-born descendants is estimated at between three and six
million.


According to a report by the INED demographic institute, some 14
million French people -- a quarter of the population -- have at
least one immigrant parent or grandparent.


Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing right-wing Union for a
Popular Movement (UMP), leads the race for the April-May
election, ahead of Socialist Segolene Royal and centrist Francois
Bayrou.


Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen -- campaigning on an anti-
immigrant, anti- Europe platform -- is fourth in the polls on
around 12-14 percent of first round votes, well ahead of the
eight smaller candidates.


The election takes place in two rounds on April 22 and May 6.

