

The British government's public spending narrowed in February
compared with a year earlier, providing a boost to finance
minister Gordon Brown on the eve of his annual budget statement.


The public sector net borrowing (PSNB), the government's
preferred measure of the public finances, stood at 1.0 billion
pounds (1.47 billion euros, 1.96 billion dollars) in February,
down on the 1.7 billion pound deficit in the same month last
year, the Office of National Statistics revealed.


The public sector current budget was meanwhile in surplus by 2.0
billion pounds.


The public finances benefited last month from buoyant tax
receipts as a result of the strength of the economy and the delay
in some income tax receipts following civil service strike action
in January, the ONS said.


Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown was expected to unveil his
final budget on Wednesday, before launching his campaign to
replace Tony Blair as prime minister, who is stepping down later
this year as leader of Britain after a decade in power.


"Today's figures provide the chancellor with slightly more elbow
room and could, at the margin, increase the risk that tomorrow's
budget will be slightly more generous than the broadly neutral
package that we're expecting," said Paul Dales, economist at
Capital Economics.


Over the first eleven months of the year, net borrowing, as
measured by the PSNB, stands at 26.9 billion pounds, down on the
previous fiscal year's 31.0 billion.


In his pre-budget report last December, Brown revised up his
forecasts for 2006/7 PSNB to 36.8 billion pounds from the 36
billion pounds forecast made in last March's budget.


But February's data could now mean that on Wednesday, Brown
revises down his PSNB projections for this year.


"The chancellor looks set to undershoot the 37 billion pounds
projection made in December," said Alan Castle, economist at
Lehman Brothers.


The ONS also revealed Monday that the public sector net cash
requirement (PSNCR), the public sector's need to raise cash,
showed a deficit of 1.874 billion pounds in February.

