

Britain on Tuesday gave school headteachers the right to ban the
Islamic veil and other religious clothing from classrooms, re-
igniting a debate over multi- culturalism and triggering Muslim
anger.


A spokesman for the Department for Education and Skills stressed
that the new guidelines did not mean that the government was
imposing a blanket ban on religious clothing at schools.


But Massoud Shadjareh, chairman of the Islamic Human Rights
Commission, voiced dismay at the new rules.


"Successive ministers dealing with education issues have failed
to give proper guidance when requested by human rights
campaigners about schools' obligations regarding religious
dress," he said.


"To now proceed to issue guidance against Muslim communities is
simply shocking."


The guidelines require schools to consult with the local
community, including students' parents, before deciding on a
uniform policy, and note that, where possible, they should be
tolerant of religious dress.


But certain items of clothing, such as the full-face veil, or
niqab, may be banned if headteachers believe that they hamper
safety, security or learning, so long as a consultation is
carried out.


"Schools must act reasonably in accommodating religious
requirements, providing they do not pose a threat to security,
safety and learning, or compromise the well-being of the whole
school community," said the guidelines.


But they added: "Where individual requirements have an impact in
any of these areas, schools are within their rights to take
appropriate action," while saying they must consult with parents
and the local community.


The new rules follow a high-profile British court case in which
the father of a 12-year-old Muslim girl was last month refused
permission to challenge a school's ban on her wearing the niqab
during lessons.


Earlier this month, a Muslim teaching assistant who was
suspended, then sacked, for refusing to take off her full-face
veil in class launched an appeal. A date for a ruling has not yet
been set.


Former foreign secretary Jack Straw triggered a fierce debate
about the niqab last October when he revealed that he asked women
wearing the garment to take it off when they met him at his
constituency surgery.


Prime Minister Tony Blair also suggested the niqab was a "mark of
separation" at a time of government efforts to promote greater
integration between different communities in Britain.


Although it was initially a row about the extent of Muslim
integration, the debate has extended to the right to wear any
religious symbol in public and drawn in senior religious leaders,
politicians and the judiciary.


But Tahir Alam, education spokesman for the Muslim Council of
Britain (MCB), played down the significance of the new
guidelines.


"The vast majority of schools are able to solve these issues
locally, and that should continue to be the case. We have to be
sensible in the way we address these issues," he said.

