

US President George W. Bush Tuesday called to offer strong
support to under-fire Attorney General Alberto Gonzales who is
facing mounting demands for his resignation, the White House
said.


Bush's personal endorsement for the top US legal officer, in the
eye of a political storm over the firing of eight prosecutors,
came in an early morning telephone call from the Oval Office,
Bush's spokesman Tony Snow said.


"He expressed his support for the Attorney General and his strong
backing," Snow told AFP by telephone.


The presidential intervention came as calls mounted from Congress
for the resignation of Gonzales, and the release late Monday of
3,000 pages of documents related to the drama, ahead of
congressional hearings on the issue.


On Monday, the White House had offered more tepid support for
Gonzales, as Snow said "the president said he's got confidence in
Al Gonzales ... we hope he stays."


Snow also said reports in the Politico newspaper that Republican
officials working on behalf of the White House were sizing up
possible replacements for Gonzales, were "completely false."


The report said that support had collapsed among Republican
lawmakers for Gonzales, a close ally of Bush dating from the
president's days as Texas governor.


The controversy erupted over the firings of eight US attorneys in
2006, which critics charge were politically motivated.


Tasia Scolinos, a Justice Department spokeswoman said the
documents were released to show the reasons for the department's
decisions.


"The department did not remove the US Attorneys for improper
reasons, such as to prevent or retaliate for a particular
prosecution in a public corruption matter," she said.


"Because the American public must have confidence that such
considerations did not factor into the decisions here, the
Justice Department is being transparent and forthcoming with the
Congress."


Most of the attorneys were fired in December, ostensibly for poor
performance.


But members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received
good performance reviews, a discovery that fueled allegations the
dismissals were politically motivated.

