

Uzbek Al-Qaeda militants and local tribesmen in northwestern
Pakistan fought pitched battles that left 24 people dead
including four children, officials said Tuesday.


Heavy exchanges of rocket and mortar fire broke out on Monday and
continued on Tuesday in Kalusha town in the troubled tribal
region of South Waziristan, which borders Afghanistan, security
officials said.


The fighting started after a local former Taliban leader, Mullah
Nazir, who backs the government's moves to expel foreign fighters
from the area, ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir
Yuldashev to disarm.


One shell hit a group of private school students who had been
left outside the town by a bus driver because of the violence.
Four were killed and 27 were wounded, the officials said on
condition of anonymity.


Seven local tribesmen, including some of Nazir's men, were
killed, as well as 13 supporters of Yuldashev, the officials
added, saying another 22 Uzbeks were detained.


Yuldashev, the head of a group called the Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan, was sentenced to death in absentia for bombings in
the Uzbek capital Tashkent and security officials say he had
links to Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.


Meanwhile more than 2,000 Uzbek militants blocked the road from
Wana, the main city in South Waziristan, to the town of Angoor
Adda.


The local administration gave them a 48-hour ultimatum to end the
blockade otherwise military action would be started against them,
the officials said.


Clashes were continuing and several tribes had joined fighters on
the both sides.


The fighting ended a ceasefire negotiated about two weeks ago
after fierce gunbattles between Yuldashev's supporters and pro-
government tribesmen in the nearby town of Azam Warsak in which
19 people were killed.


Yuldashev and his men were among thousands of militants who fled
the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and sought
shelter with ethnic Pashtun tribesmen in Pakistan's lawless
tribal belt along the border.


Officials said Yuldashev was injured during major battles with
Pakistani forces in the Azam Warsak area in March 2004.


Pakistan signed a peace deal with elders and militants in South
Waziristan in 2005 after military offensives against Taliban and
Al-Qaeda members, including Uzbeks.


Islamabad's Western allies have criticised the deal -- and a
similar pact signed in neighbouring North Waziristan in September
-- as giving the Taliban and Al- Qaeda space to regroup and mount
attacks in Afghanistan.

