

EU transport ministers are to give clearance Thursday for plans
to open up the transatlantic aviation market to tougher
competition unless Britain throws a spanner in the works.


After four years of discussions, a so-called "open skies"
agreement is in takeoff position after EU and US negotiators
hammered out a tentative deal at the beginning of the month to
liberalise transatlantic air traffic.


The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on the EU's
behalf, says consumers will see up to 12 billion euros (16
billion dollars) in economic benefits as increased competition
brings downs ticket prices.


However, Britain has deep reservations about the deal because it
would lift restrictions on the number of airlines that can fly
lucrative transatlantic flights from Heathrow airport outside
London, the busiest in Europe.


Currently, only British Airways, Virgin Atlantic of Britain and
US carriers United Airlines and American Airlines are allowed to
fly from Heathrow to the United States.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair is to hold a video-conference
on Tuesday with US President George W. Bush in a last minute
effort to get special treatment for Heathrow, several well
informed sources said.


If the so-called "open skies" agreement on the table gets the EU
ministers' backing, it is expected to go into effect by October
28.


However, London is aiming to get a transition period for Heathrow
running to May 2008, when a fifth terminal is due to open, one EU
source said.


The fate of Heathrow is key as transatlantic flights to and from
Britain currently make up about 37 percent of the total EU-US air
traffic, with a large part of that going through the airport.


Other EU countries are widely in favour of the draft agreement
and a few months' transition time would probably not raise
insurmountable objections from them, an EU source said.


An open-skies deal is supposed to replace the patchwork of
existing bilateral air transport agreements between EU members
and the United States, eight of which the European Court of
Justice has ruled are illegal.


The European Commission has not enforced the court decision
because it has a mandate to negotiate an EU-US deal.


The EU estimates that an agreement would generate more than 26
million extra passengers over the next five years and create
80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa.


That is expected to dramatically increase competition because EU
carriers are currently only allowed to fly to the United States
from their home country.


However, while US carriers would be able to fly intra-EU routes,
their European rivals would not be able to fly between two cities
within the United States.


The agreement would also lift restrictions on EU carriers buying
big stakes in US airlines, although their voting rights in a US
carrier would remain capped at 25-percent, much to the chagrin of
Britain.


If the draft agreement goes into effect as planned in October, a
second round of negotiations on further liberalisation is due to
start in January.

