

Canadian consumer prices were up 2.0 percent from a year ago in
February, mostly due to higher food, gasoline and home ownership
costs, Statistics Canada said Tuesday.


On a month-over-month basis, the all-items consumer price index
(CPI) rose 0.7 percent between January and February, after a 0.1
percent gain the previous month.


This pushed the year-to-year CPI up to 2.0 percent from 1.2
percent the previous month, the sharpest gain since September
2005, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina in the United States.


"This represents a substantial acceleration over the previous
month," the government agency said in a statement, and is much
higher than analysts had predicted.


Sal Guatieri, an economist at BMO Capital Markets told AFP: "It's
a shocker."


"The increase in the core consumer price index in February was
much higher than expected," he said.


The Bank of Canada's has held its key lending rate steady at 4.25
percent since May 2006 on expectations inflation would return to
its 2.0 percent target and economic growth would accelerate this
year.


But the central bank's core index climbed 2.4 percent in
February, following a 12-month rise of 2.1 percent in January,
and average increases of 2.1 percent since May 2006.


"It's a little early in the game to consider raising rates but
certainly it suggests that the odds of a rate increase are higher
now," Guatieri said.


"The bank is still somewhat worried about the situation in the US
housing market, that the US housing slump could take down the US
economy and therefore weaken Canada's economy."


In February, mortgage interest costs were up 5.1 percent,
homeowner's replacement costs climbed 7.1 percent, fresh
vegetable prices gained 12.0 percent and gasoline rose 3.8
percent, over the past year.


A 19.3 percent price plunge in natural gas used primarily to heat
homes dampened inflation, reflecting mild temperatures in early
winter.


This decline followed a drop of 21.5 percent posted in the
previous month and a series of consecutive reductions recorded
since July 2006.

