

Palestinians on Tuesday urged the world to work with their new
unity government, as major powers weighed up how to deal with an
administration led by the Islamist movement Hamas.


The call came after the European Union and the United States --
which along with Russia and the United Nations make up the Middle
East peace Quartet -- said they would not recognise the cabinet
until it agreed to its demands.


"We call upon the international community, especially the
Quartet, not to procrastinate in recognising the Palestinian
unity government and to deal with it on the basis of its
programme, which may be a key to peace, security and stability in
the region," information minister Mustafa al-Barghuti told AFP.


Palestinians installed a new government uniting Hamas with
moderates hoping that the West would lift a punishing aid and
diplomatic embargo imposed a year ago when the Islamists formed a
cabinet alone after a dramatic election win.


So far, the West has stopped short of recognising the government,
with only Norway saying officially it would work with the new
cabinet.


The Quartet has demanded that a Palestinian government renounce
violence, recognise Israel and agree to abide by past peace
deals.


"I have to say that this government does not comply fully with
the principles," EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said after
holding talks in Washington.


But the Americans and Europeans have nevertheless left the door
open to lifting the embargo, saying it would depend on the
actions of the new government.


"It's much more important what they do than what they say at this
point in time," Solana said after talks with US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice.


The European Union is the main financial donor to the
Palestinians, giving almost 900 million dollars last year, while
keeping cash out of the hands of Hamas, which figures on the
terror lists of the EU and the United States.


"We are going to watch what they do and say," said a US State
Department spokesman.


Middle East envoys for the EU and United Nations were due to meet
separately with non-Hamas Palestinian foreign and interior
ministers in Gaza City on Tuesday, Palestinian officials said.


The cabinet was sworn in on Saturday after a February power-
sharing deal aimed at putting an end to months of factional
fighting that left scores dead and lifting the aid freeze that
has crippled the Palestinian economy.


Unveiling the government's programme, prime minister Ismail
Haniya of Hamas said it would "respect" past peace deals, but
said Palestinians had a "legitimate right" to "resistance in all
its forms" and did not mention recognition of the Jewish state.


Hamas has carried out dozens of suicide attacks in Israel, but
has not claimed responsibility for any in two years.


However an Israeli electricity worker was shot and wounded at the
Karni crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip on Monday in an
attack claimed by the armed wing of Hamas.


Israel -- which has refused contacts with the new government --
welcomed the decision by the Americans and Europeans to maintain
the boycott.


"We welcome the fact that the international community is sticking
to its positions and keeping its demands towards the new
Palestinian government that has to respect the three conditions
of the Quartet," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, whose secular Fatah party is
the junior member in the new coalition, had appealed for the West
to lift its boycott.


But Rice remained steadfast.


"I am not going to try to interpret what the right of resistance
means, but I'll tell you it does not sound very good to me when
one talks about 'all forms of resistance,'" said Rice, who is
expected in the region later this week.

