

Food aid talks between North and South Korea got off to a shaky
start Thursday after the South urged its neighbour to start
shutting down its nuclear plant as soon as possible, reports from
Pyongyang said.


The North's chief delegate stormed out after just half an hour in
protest after the South called on the communist state to fulfil
its commitment after missing an April 14 deadline.


In his opening speech Seoul's chief delegate Chin Dong-Soo urged
Pyongyang to honour an international disarmament pact and shut
down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor as soon as possible.


North Korean chief delegate Chu Dong-chan walked out in protest,
Yonhap news agency said, citing reports from Pyongyang.


"Both sides delivered their position to each other during the
meeting. We have to be engaged in further discussion, but the
situation is not that good," Chin was quoted as saying in the
reports.


North Korea had already indicated it would be unhappy with such a
call.


"We work on the strict principle of the separation of politics
and economics," Kwon Ho-Ung, its chief cabinet councillor, said
Wednesday.


The session was supposed to start at 10:00 am but was delayed
after the North demanded that texts of opening speeches be
exchanged in advance, the reports said.


The North also wanted to see a draft agreement on the South's
provision of rice aid, and a draft of a joint press statement to
be issued at the end of the four- day economic cooperation talks.


The South rejected all the requests as "unprecedented" and
"unproductive," according to South Korean reporters covering the
meeting.


Press reports said Seoul may try to use its desperately-needed
rice aid as a lever during this week's economic talks.


Seoul suspended its regular annual shipment of 400,000 tons of
rice after the North's missile tests last July. Relations
worsened further after its October nuclear test but improved when
the North returned to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


The North has told international aid agencies it faces a one-
million-ton food shortfall this year.


Under the first phase of the February six-nation deal, the North
was supposed by last Saturday to have shut down and sealed
Yongbyon, which produces the raw material for plutonium to make
bombs.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars which had been frozen in a Macau bank at US instigation
since 2005.


The United States said the money was made available last week,
but there has been no word on when or how the cash will be
withdrawn.


During a lunch meeting with South Korean delegates, the North
also rejected demands that it return a captured US navy ship.


"Return? Why do we return such an important thing?" chief
delegate Chu was quoted as saying about the USS Pueblo, seized in
1968 while on an intelligence- gathering mission.


On Wednesday US Republican Senator Wayne Allard introduced a
resolution demanding the North return the Pueblo in exchange for
a Korean battle flag captured in the 19th century.


In addition to possible rice aid, the proposed opening of two
railway lines across the heavily fortified border is also on the
agenda. A deal under which the South would swap raw materials for
natural resources will also be discussed.

