

A sixth executive of South Korean electronics giant Samsung
agreed to plead guilty to charges of conspiring to fix prices for
memory chips, and to serve 14 months in prison, officials said
Thursday.


The Justice Department said Il Ung Kim, a Korean executive,
agreed to serve 14 months in a US prison, described as the
longest imprisonment ever for a foreign defendant charged with
price fixing in the United States.


Kim, vice president of marketing for the memory division at the
Korean electronics group, agreed to plead guilty to a single
count of price fixing and to pay a 250,000-dollar criminal fine
in addition to the prison term.


The plea is to be entered in court next week, with approval by a
judge required.


The case is the latest in a wide-ranging global investigation of
price-fixing of dynamic random access memory (DRAM) chips, widely
used in computers and other electronics. There were approximately
28.7 billion dollars in DRAM sales worldwide in 2006, according
to US officials.


"We are committed to prosecuting executives who violate US
antitrust laws and harm consumers and competition in the United
States, even when those executives conduct their cartel activity
overseas," said Thomas Barnett, assistant attorney general in
charge of the department's Antitrust Division.


"Individuals who engage in price fixing should know that prison
time will be a consequence of their illegal actions."


Kim was among several named in an October 2006 indictment and was
charged with conspiracy to suppress competition by fixing the
prices of DRAM chips to be sold to certain manufacturers of
personal computers and servers.


In November 2005, Samsung pleaded guilty to participating in the
conspiracy and agreed to pay a 300-million-dollar criminal fine.


A second Korean manufacturer, Hynix Semiconductor, pleaded guilty
and was ordered to pay a 185-million-dollar fine in May 2005.


Other companies who have paid criminal fines include German
manufacturer Infineon and Japanese group Elpida Memory.


US authorities have alleged a conspiracy that dates back as far
as 1999 and operated until at least June 2002.

