

Jordanian Prince Feisal Al Hussein is hoping the promotion of
peace and goodwill will be the end result of his brainchild, the
Peace Through Sport forum, which he launched here on Thursday.


Prince Feisal - brother of King Abdullah II - said the Jordan-
based movement would bring together youth leaders and children
from around the world who are split by either civil war or
hostility between two countries.


A pilot scheme beginning in early October will consist of
children and youth leaders from Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and
Iraq - although the focus of the programme will not be on
athletic excellence.


"We're not here to create outstanding athletes," he told AFP.


"We are here to create peace activists where they learn mutual
respect, understanding and tolerance.


"Sports is great for that because you plonk a ball down in front
of any kid and they will want to kick it.


"We want to teach teamwork and that children from two opposing
camps can play sport alongside each other," added Prince Feisal,
who sporting background, mainly in motorsports, played a large
part in the Rally of Jordan becoming part of the world
championship next year.


For the moment, though, Israel will not be involved despite the
impressive advertisement made for the movement.


It depicts an American soldier running after an Iraqi one, only
to hand him a relay baton. The Iraqi then hands on to an Israeli,
and he approaches a young Palestinian, who initially picks up a
stone but drops it and takes the baton instead.


"This is an inclusive movement, not an exclusive one," added
Prince Feisal, who is named after the great uncle who fought
alongside Lawrence of Arabia in the Great War when they swept
aside the Turkish Army in the Middle East.


"Israel is important to this and indeed they are going to be
essential to this. I have been discussing this with some Israeli
friends in the IOC and we will continue to talk."


Prince Feisal, who said that the children would be picked by
their relevant National Olympic Committees while the youth
leaders would be selected by both the NOC's and NGO's such as the
United Nations, said the funding is in place and he hoped to
encourage others to join in.


"The Jordanian Olympic Committee has allocated part of their
annual budget as has the Ministry of Youth," said Prince Feisal,
who envisages 2000 youth leaders to have been trained in the next
three years and them having trained another 6-10,000 meaning
150,000 children from divided communities will be playing sport
together.


"We didn't want to get all the sponsors immediately as we wanted
to get the pilot scheme underway and we hope that that will
prompt the sponsors to come on board.


"We are talking to two global institutions at the moment and at
SportsAccord next week in China we will be announcing a deal with
a charity that will provide sports equipment for the children and
youth leaders once they return home."


Prince Feisal, flanked by Lebanon's IOC member Toni Khoury, who
was representing IOC President Jacques Rogge, and two-time
Olympic gold medallist Donna De Verona, admitted his brainchild
may seem a little idealistic.


But he stressed it was worth trying.


"It is an ongoing learning process and we will learn from the
pilot scheme when the youth leaders report back to us," he said.


"My attempt to push the agenda for peace will present setbacks
but with dedication we can see it through and if we change even
just one child's mind it will be worth it.


"But I firmly believe that we will do much more than that."


For De Verona, gold medallist in the 400 metres individual medley
and the 4x400m medley relay at the 1964 Olympics, it was an ideal
concept.


"Petra (the ancient city in Jordan and in the running to be voted
one of the seven wonders of the world) is one wonder and this
idea could be another."

