

More than 1,000 young people each day die on the road, a
worldwide toll that inflicts indescribable yet avoidable
suffering as well as spiralling economic costs, a UN report
released on Thursday said.


The message is made in a report by the World Health Organisation
(WHO) ahead of first UN "Global Road Safety Week," an event
scheduled to start next Monday.


Every hour of every day, 40 youngsters around the world die after
being hit by traffic or involved in a collision, WHO Director
General Margaret Chan said.


"Road traffic crashes are not 'accidents'," Chan said in a press
release to promote the report. "We need to challenge the notion
that they are unavoidable and make room for a pro-active,
preventive approach."


In 2002, the latest year for which figures are available, 1.2
million people of all ages died on the road and between 20 and 50
million were injured.


People aged under 25 accounted for 383,046 of these fatalities.
Among teenagers aged 15-19, it was the biggest single source of
death and it ranked second among children aged five to nine and
adults aged 20-24.


More than half of the fatalities were in Africa and Southeast
Asia.


The report makes these recommendations:


-- promote road safety to children from a very young age.


-- encourage the wearing of cycle and motorbike helmets, child
seats, seat belts and reflective clothing, especially in
developing countries, which account for 85 percent of road
fatalities.


-- separate motorised traffic from other users, such as animal-
drawn carts and playing children, and use roundabouts and other
schemes to "dampen" traffic speed.


-- get police to enforce laws on road safety, particularly those
on drink- driving, helmet and seat-belt use.


-- consider setting lower blood-alcohol limits for young or
inexperienced drivers and establishing a "graduated" system under
which a young driver who has just passed his or her driving test
is progressively released from restrictions after gaining
experience.


On the other hand, the WHO casts doubt on the value of promoting
"designated driver" schemes.


Under these campaigns, which are popular in many countries,
youngsters going to a party or a club are encouraged to name one
of their number as non-drinker for the evening, so that he or she
can drive everyone home safely.


"There is... little evidence to suggest that designated driver
programmes are effective in reducing drink-driving among young
adults," the report says firmly.


"Most research on the subject indicates that these programmes are
not enough to change behaviour by themselves, and that strict
enforcement is also necessary."


In a commentary coinciding with the report, the British health
journal The Lancet branded road deaths "a pandemic."


But it said there was no easy answer, as the chief solution "lies
with what is perhaps one of the hardest things to change -- human
behaviour."


The global cost of road accidents, among people of all ages, is
put at 518 billion dollars a year, according to 2002 figures.


Low- and middle-income countries accounted for 65-100 billion
dollars of this, which is more than they received in annual
development aid and equivalent.


In terms of gross national product (GNP), the cost is one percent
for low-income countries, which account for 85 percent of
fatalities; 1.5 percent in middle- income countries; and two
percent in high-income countries.


The discrepancies are explained by a range of factors.


Richer countries have fewer accidents, but a crash incurs a
higher dollar figure because of the greater costs in health care,
insurance payouts, loss of earning capacity and contribution to
the national economy.


In the United States, for instance, road accidents involving
drivers aged 15-20 in the United States cost 41 billion dollars
in 2002.


+ Report: "Youth and Road Safety," published by the World Health
Organisation (WHO), April 2007.

