

Europe's "ambiguous attitude" towards Turkey was the source of
the gruesome murder of three people at a Christian publishing
house in eastern Turkey, an Ankara-born German MEP said Thursday.


"The EU must be aware of its responsibility," Socialist
eurodeputy Vural Oger said as he addressed a lunch meeting in
Brussels organised by the Turkish business association Tusiad.


There has been a reaction in the Turkish public to "the ambiguous
attitude of the European Union in the last years," he added,
referring to the ongoing disagreements among European Union
member states over Turkey's credentials as an EU member.


"The Turkish bourgeoisie has become more and more nationalist and
the rural population more and more Islamist," he added.


The killings in Malataya, Turkey, on Wednesday fuelled fears
among Turkey's tiny Christian community and raised concerns over
religious freedom in the mainly Muslim country.


The victims, one of them German, were found tied to chairs with
their throats slit at the Zirve (Summit) publishing house, which
is owned by Turkey's Protestant community.


Five suspects, including a man who jumped out of a third floor
window to escape capture, were detained at the scene of the crime
and Turkish police detained five more later.


European Commission spokesman on enlargement Jean-Christophe
Filori rejected Oger's views, adding: "Turkey is a country in
transformation. As every society in transformation, there are
people who feel unease about it, including people with the most
brutal methods," he said.


The European Union on Tuesday welcomed a reform action plan
unveiled by Turkey aimed at bringing the country into line with
norms needed to join the bloc.


Turkey's EU membership talks, which began in October 2005 and
have been plagued with difficulties, are expected to last at
least a decade and Ankara has been given no guarantee that it
will even be allowed in at the end.


Many member nations are wary of inviting in a huge, relatively
poor and mainly- Muslim state which would, under EU rules, have
voting rights similar to major powers like Britain or Italy.

