

Jordan's King Abdullah II told Israeli parliament speaker and
acting president Dalia Yitzik on Thursday that an Arab peace plan
was a historic chance for peace in the Middle East.


The initiative, reactivated at a summit in Riyadh last month,
"constitutes an historic opportunity to achieve Middle East peace
and end decades of conflict between Arabs and Israelis," the king
told Yitzik and her delegation during a working lunch in Amman, a
palace statement said.


He said the Arab plan "reflected the Arab commitment to peace,"
and urged Israel "to accept it as a basis for restarting
negotiations with the Palestinians and for finding solutions to
different aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict."


The Arab initiative offers Israel full normalisation of relations
in return for its withdrawal from all Arab land captured in 1967,
the creation of a Palestinian state and -- in a key sticking
point for Israel -- the return of Palestinian refugees.


"Israelis and Palestinians need to take steps that will build
confidence between them," the king said. "These steps would build
on the political momentum in the region to advance the peace
process and achieve on-the-ground progress."


The talks are the first to be held between the king and the
Israeli official, who was accompanied by 10 members of
parliament. The Israeli party flew by helicopter direct to the
royal palace in Amman.


King Abdullah also emphasised that Israel "must realise that the
first step to ending the Arab-Israeli conflict is the fulfilment
of Palestinians' legitimate rights, foremost of which is the
establishment of an independent Palestinian state on Palestinian
national territory."


The palace said he also stressed the need for the Jewish state to
support Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas "as he works to
relaunch negotiations with Israel and to alleviate the harsh
living conditions of the Palestinian people."


Yitzik said she appreciated the king's "continuing efforts to
revive the peace process" and that she discussed "the Israeli
position on negotiations with the Palestinians," the statement
added, without elaborating.


On Wednesday the Arab League said it had tasked Jordan and Egypt
with the job of persuading Israel to accept the Arab peace
initiative.


"Egypt and Jordan, the two Arab parties which retrieved their
lands (from Israel), will undertake efforts to revive the Arab
peace initiative and facilitate direct negotiations," the league
said after a meeting of 13 Arab foreign ministers.


The two countries are the only Arab states to have signed peace
treaties with Israel, in 1979 and 1994 respectively, and both
have regular contacts with Israeli officials.


King Abdullah called Olmert on Wednesday to stress the importance
of keeping the peace process momentum going and drawing up a
timetable for a comprehensive solution.


He stressed "the need to maintain the momentum (to relaunch) the
peace process and agree on a precise timetable for concrete
results based on the two state solution and the Arab peace
initiative," the official Petra agency said.


On Sunday the foreign ministers of Israel and Jordan also met to
discuss ways of pushing the peace process forward.


Thursday's visit by the Israeli delegation was condemned by
Jordan's trades union federation, which is controlled by the
mainly Islamist opposition. It expressed its "consternation" at
the welcome accorded by Jordan to what it called "leaders of
Zionist terrorism."


Yitzik was due to meet Prime Minister Maaruf Bakhit and Foreign
Minister Abdel Ilah al-Khatib later on Thursday, an official
said.


She and her delegation were also to visit the Nabataean
archaeological site of Petra before returning to Israel.

