

The United States on Thursday ruled out bending its laws to allow
India to retain the right to resume nuclear weapons testing under
a civilian nuclear energy deal being negotiated by the two
governments.


"It's an issue that's covered by our law and ... in as much as it
is affected by, it bumps up against US law, we're not going to
change our laws," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said
when asked about India's stance on nuclear testing.


He was speaking after the State Department's number three
official, Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns, expressed
frustration at India's demands in talks on the landmark
agreement.


"We are disappointed with the pace and seriousness of the civil
nuclear negotiations with India," Burns said in an interview
published in the Financial times.


"It is time to accelerate our efforts to achieve a final deal,"
he said.


The agreement, initially reached in July 2006, gives India
unprecedented access to US nuclear fuel and technology for its
civilian power sector without requiring New Delhi to sign a
nuclear weapons non-proliferation treaty as normally required by
US law.


The deal has been defended by President George W. Bush's
administration as the centerpiece of a new relationship between
the US and India following decades of Cold War tensions.


But the negotiations have bogged down, notably over India's
refusal to commit formally to its voluntary unilateral moratorium
on nuclear weapons testing and its insistence the deal give it
the right to reprocess nuclear fuel.


Both elements would contravene US laws.


"We have conveyed to the Indian government that there are certain
issues that they might like to raise concerning issues that are
covered by our national laws, and those are issues we're not
going to go back and re-legislate," McCormack said.


But he expressed confidence that the differences would be
overcome.


"When you're blazing a trail on an issue with negotiations and
there's not a body of work or a history or precedent to fall back
on, every issue becomes important for one side or the other," he
said.


"Once the negotiations run their course, I think we're going to
see an agreement," he said.


Washington had initially expected to implement the agreement
within six months of its approval by Congress and signature into
law by Bush in December.


But in addition to hiccups in negotiations with the US, New Delhi
still has to negotiate with the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) over a set of atomic safeguards which it should
adhere to under the pact.


The 45-nation Nuclear Suppliers' Group (NSG) also has to formally
sanction the deal.

