

British aerospace engine maker Rolls-Royce said on Thursday that
it will withdraw from Sudan, citing "increasing international
humanitarian concerns" in the violence-scarred region of Darfur.


Sudan's government faced fresh pressure this week to allow
international forces into strife-torn Darfur, with Washington and
London threatening new UN sanctions to force Khartoum's hand.


"In view of the increasing international humanitarian concerns
about the situation in Darfur, the company recently reviewed its
business and decided it should discontinue business in Sudan," a
Rolls-Royce spokesman said Thursday.


"Rolls-Royce will immediately cease to pursue any new business in
that country and it will progressively withdraw support arising
from previously signed contracts."


He added: "Rolls-Royce believes this is a responsible line to
adopt in the current circumstances.


Operations in Sudan amounted to a "very small percentage" of
total company revenues, according to the spokesman.


Rolls-Royce supplies diesel engines to oil and gas companies
operating pipelines in the country, he added.


Britain-based campaign body Sudan Divestment UK welcomed the
announcement from the aerospace group which is listed on London's
FTSE 100 index of leading companies.


"Rolls-Royce's recognition of the genocide in Darfur and the role
of multinational corporations in the continued atrocities, is to
be applauded and it is a stark challenge to other companies whose
operations are helping fuel the world's worst humanitarian
crisis," said Hamish Falconer, director of Sudan Divestment UK.


The campaign group, which was founded last November, aims to
strangle that flow of money by targeting foreign firms that
support Sudan's oil-dominated industry as well as the savers and
pension funds that finance them.


Falconer added: "Companies cannot blinker themselves from the
impact they are having on the vulnerable people of Sudan.


"There is a genocide in Darfur, and it is funded, in large part
by the operation of foreign companies.


"Rolls-Royce has sent a message to Khartoum that there is an
economic cost for committing genocide."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Wednesday that the new UN
sanctions would seek to pressure Sudan to allow international
forces into Darfur as well as impose sanctions against
individuals responsible for violence there.


The Darfur conflict broke out in 2003 when government forces
including its Janjaweed Arab militias began fighting rebel groups
who had taken up arms in protest at the distribution of
resources.

