

Vice-captain Ramnaresh Sarwan hit an attractive unbeaten 91 to
help the West Indies reach 230-5 in their World Cup Super Eights
match against Bangladesh here on Thursday.


The 26-year-old added 81 for the fourth wicket with Shivnarine
Chanderpaul (50) and a quickfire 60 for the fifth with skipper
Brian Lara to help the West Indies post a challenging total.


Sarwan hit five boundaries and two towering sixes during his
90-ball knock which lifted the total for the home team who are
seeking their first win in the second round.


Sarwan, who is tipped to take over from Lara as captain,
capitalised on some sloppy fielding as he and the skipper added
84 runs in the final ten slog overs.


Lara, who was playing his penultimate match after announcing he
would retire from one-day cricket after the World Cup, hit a
robust 27-ball 33 with two sixes and a four before he was caught
off Abdur Razzak in the 47th over.


But it was Bangladesh who had the upper hand at the outset.


West Indian batsmen found the going tough against some accurate
pace bowling Syed Rasel and Mashrafe Mortaza following captain
Habibul Bashar's decision to bowl first on a bouncy Kensignton
Oval pitch.


Mortaza removed Devon Smith (five) in the third over, bowling the
left-hander with a sharp incoming delivery before Rasel, who
missed Bangladesh's defeat against Ireland with a sprained ankle,
trapped the out-of-form Chris Gayle in the next over.


Gayle made only one to continue his poor run of scores, having
made just 148 in seven World Cup matches.


At 15-2, Bangaldesh were unlucky not to take Marlon Samuels'
wicket when Saqibul Hasan failed to hold a diving one-handed
chance off Rasel at gully when the batsman had not scored.


Samuels went onto make a painstakingly slow 31 off 66 deliveries
with four boundaries before left-arm spinner Hasan had him caught
behind. Samuels added 47 runs for the third wicket with
Chanderpaul.


It was then left to Chanderpaul and Sarwan to build the innings.


Chanderpaul, who was slow at the start, reached his 46th one-day
fifty off 84 deliveries. The very next ball he missed a cross
batted shot and was bowled by medium pacer Aftab Ahmed for 50. He
hit three boundaries.


West Indies, who carried over two points into the Super Eights
courtesy of a win over fellow qualifiers Ireland, brought back
paceman Jerome Taylor for Ian Bradshaw and Samuels for Kieron
Pollard.


Bangladesh scored a surprise 67-run win over South Africa in the
Super Eights to also have two points.

