

One billion people worldwide are affected by neglected but
debilitating tropical diseases despite treatment costs that are
as low as 50 US cents per person, the World Health Organisation
said on Thursday.


The global health body said there was now an "unprecedented
commitment" to eradicate the diseases, which are mainly present
in Africa and Latin America.


"This commitment comes from political leaders and ministries of
health in affected countries, from development agencies and
banks, foundations, scientists, and some of the world's leading
pharmaceutical companies," the WHO said in a statement.


The WHO classes 14 infectious diseases as "neglected," including
guinea worm and leprosy. They are mostly spread by flies and
mosquitoes in impoverished tropical climates.


The director of the neglected tropical diseases department at the
WHO, Lorenzo Savioli, told journalists that tackling the diseases
collectively rather than individually would lead to greater
effectiveness.


"We need to move to a different level of commitment... to give
them (the treatment programmes) the visibility and the standing
that they need," he said.


WHO director general Margaret Chan on Thursday signed an
agreement with German pharmaceutical company Merck KGaA to fight
the parasitic worm disease schistosomiasis, which can cause
severe anaemia and stunt children's growth and development.


Under the agreement, Merck will donate 200 million tablets of the
drug praziquantel worth some 80 million dollars (59 million
euros) over a 10 year period.


Such public-private partnerships are key to providing free
treatment for the world's poorest populations and to eradicate
the diseases altogether, WHO Assistant Director General for
communicable diseases David Heymann told journalists.


"These partnerships have been stimulated because these diseases,
unlike many others, are finite. There is an end point," he said.


"These diseases many times can be eliminated from the world or
eradicated provided the strategies are right," he added.


The WHO is involved in about eight such partnerships.

