

Duncan Fletcher quit as England coach on Thursday following the
team's dismal World Cup campaign, the England and Wales Cricket
Board announced.


Fletcher, who had been in charge since 1999, will leave his post
after the final World Cup game against West Indies here on
Saturday after eight years in charge.


English cricket academy director Peter Moores is favourite to
replace Fletcher who had been under severe pressure following the
5-0 Ashes drubbing over the winter.


His position then became untenable after Tuesday's humiliating
nine-wicket defeat to South Africa meant they were knocked out of
World Cup semi-final contention.


Moores will take temporary charge of the team after Saturday.


The 58-year-old Fletcher said he had already discussed resigning
as coach last week before the Super Eights game against
Bangladesh on April 10.


"I always said that I would review my position as England coach
nearer to the end of the winter," said the Zimbabwean.


"Earlier in the World Cup I came to a decision about my future
and I discussed stepping down as head coach with the the ECB
prior to England's game against Bangladesh.


"I feel it's in the team's best interests over the long term that
I should move on and seek a new challenge elsewhere.


"This has been a difficult winter for the team and for me
personally, but I believe that my record as coach over the past
eight years is one in which I can take great pride.


"I would like to thank all the players and the management team
for their contributions, the ECB for its support and for giving
me the opportunity to coach England and the England fans for
their ongoing support."


ECB chief executive David Collier said in a statement that the
search is already underway to have a coach in place for the Test
series against the West Indies which starts at Lord's on May 17.


There has also been speculation over the future of skipper
Michael Vaughan but ECB chairman David Morgan told a news
conference here that the Yorkshireman will be in charge for the
Test series against the West Indies.


"I have talked to the chairman of selectors and he wants Michael
Vaughan to lead the side into the Test series against the West
Indies," Morgan said.


Names of potential successors are already being thrown into the
ring.


Former England captain Ian Botham believes former Australia Test
star and current Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody would be the ideal
replacement.


"Fletcher has gone way past his sell-by date," Botham wrote in
his Daily Mirror column on Thursday.


"The next move is staring the ECB in the face - they should go
out and hire Tom Moody as his replacement.


"Moody is a former World Cup winner with Australia, he has
galvanised Sri Lanka and my guess is he'll be in the market for a
job after the World Cup. Especially the England job."


However, Moody has been widely tipped to return home to take
charge of Western Australia.


Meanwhile, Collier added: "ECB would like to formally put on
record our grateful thanks to Duncan Fletcher for his outstanding
service to cricket throughout England and Wales.


"He can be justifiably proud of a record which includes an Ashes
Series victory over Australia, a record eight successive Test
wins and Test series wins abroad in Pakistan, Sri Lanka, West
Indies and South Africa as well as the Commonwealth Bank series
success in Australia.


"England's rise to number two in the ICC Test Championship is in
no small measure due to his rigorous planning and excellent
coaching skills.


"Away from the international arena, Duncan was instrumental in
persuading the ECB and the First Class Counties to introduce
central contracts and his contribution provides an excellent
legacy for his successor. He leaves with our best wishes and
genuine appreciation from ECB for his achievements."

