

Canadian consumers paid 2.3 percent more for goods and services
in March than one year ago, as high gasoline prices pushed up
inflation slightly from the previous month, Statistics Canada
said Thursday.


Core inflation, stripped of most volatile items and used by the
Bank of Canada to help set interest rates, softened to 2.3
percent from 2.4 percent in February, the latest data showed.


On a monthly basis, the all-items index climbed by 0.8 percent in
March, with gasoline prices accounting for most of the rise. The
monthly gain in the consumer price index (CPI) was the steepest
since September 2005, when consumer prices shot up 0.9 percent in
the wake of Hurricane Katrina.


Analyst Eric Lascelles of TD Securities said inflation "is
perhaps a little bit worrying insofar as its very stubbornly
above the two percent Bank of Canada target."


Still, he said the central bank was unlikely to make any change
in interest rates.


"I'd be extremely surprised if the Bank of Canada did anything
but leave rates unchanged next week, but what we might see is a
subtle change in tone," he added, pointing to a likely rate hike
"toward the end of the year."


The Bank of Canada's next interest rate announcement is expected
on Tuesday.


Statistics Canada said strong demand for gasoline in the United
States translated into a continual decrease in American gasoline
reserves over the last seven weeks, leading to a rise in gasoline
prices.


In Canada, gasoline prices were up 10 percent in March, the
strongest 12-month increase since a 16.1 percent increase in July
2006.


Higher costs for mortgages, dining in restaurants and fresh
vegetables also helped push up the consumer price index, but
inflation pressures were moderated by a drop in natural gas
prices.


Prices for computer equipment and supplies and video equipment
meanwhile continued their downward trend of the past several
years.


Prices for women's and men's clothing were also down in March,
exerting slight downward pressure on the consumer price index.

