

World oil prices rose on Thursday in London on geopolitical
worries over key crude producer Iran but fell in New York as
American refineries ramped up their production of motor fuel,
traders said.


The price of London's Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
gained 22 cents to 66.26 dollars per barrel in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, sank 1.40 dollars to 61.73 dollars per barrel in
floor trading.


In London, "crude futures were higher today ... on concerns about
Iran," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said.


The UN atomic watchdog said late Wednesday that Iran, the world's
fourth-biggest crude producer, had started feeding uranium gas
for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has installed over
1,300 centrifuges.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on Iran for
failing to halt uranium enrichment.


Also on Wednesday, Iran refused to rule out using oil as a weapon
if the standoff with the West over its nuclear programme
intensified, saying the Islamic Republic would use every means if
attacked.


However, New York prices fell heavily on Thursday after news that
refineries had picked up gasoline (petrol) production last week
at the end of the maintenance season.


"Refineries (in the US) are ramping up and coming back online.
This (fall in prices) is just clearing out positions and gearing
up to go back up," commented an anonymous analyst.


This offset data published Wednesday by the US Department of
Energy (DoE) that showed US gasoline reserves fell 2.7 million
barrels last week, the 10th consecutive decline and heavier than
forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million.


Dealers are watching gasoline stocks closely before the US summer
driving season, starting next month, when many Americans take to
the highways for their holidays.


Elsewhere, limited price support came from news that China's
economy grew by 11.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with
the first three months of 2006.


"The country's economy is booming, with ever increasing demand
for commodities," Davies said. Fears that demand could fall,
however, should China hike its interest rates in a bid to cool
the economy were dismissed by this analyst.


"We would argue that past experience shows that so far the
Chinese government's attempts to slow down economic growth have
had little impact," he added.

