

Egypt on Thursday urged the permanent members of the UN Security
Council not to impose new sanctions on Sudan over the crisis in
the western Darfur region, calling instead for more negotiations.


In the wake of warnings to Khartoum from Washington and London,
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said in a statement:
"These verbal messages underlined the necessity of building
confidence and consolidating dialogue with the Sudanese
government instead of threatening new sanctions."


He added: "It would be more logical for the international
community to welcome Sudan's response to the UN proposal and
encourage it instead of threatening it, exerting pressure and
raising suspicions about its seriousness to cooperate."


On Wednesday US President George W. Bush warned that Sudan had
one "last chance" to allow in UN peacekeepers to bring stability
to the civil war-wracked region of Darfur.


Bush said that if Khartoum did not allow in UN forces to bolster
the ill- equipped under-funded African Union peacekeepers, he
would seek a UN resolution to provide new sanctions.


The same day, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "We have
waited and waited. We have tried diplomacy and negotiation again
and again with the Sudanese government and they have to get the
message that the international community will not allow the
scandal that is Darfur to continue."


Sudan earlier this week agreed to the deployment of 3,000 UN
personnel as stipulated in the second phase of a UN peacekeeping
plan for Darfur but has yet to agree to the third phase, which
provides for a much wider deployment.


The Darfur conflict broke out in 2003 when government forces
including its Janjaweed Arab militias began fighting rebel groups
who had taken up arms in protest at the distribution of
resources.


The United Nations estimates that 200,000 people have since been
killed and at least two million more displaced. Aid agencies have
blamed Khartoum's forces and the Janjaweed for widespread
killing, rapes and burning of villages.

