

A century after becoming the first country in the world to grant
women full voting rights, Finland on Thursday marked another
milestone by appointing the world's most female-dominated
cabinet.


The new centre-right coalition government is headed by a man,
Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen, but 12 of the 20 ministers are
women -- 60 percent -- a world record according to the Inter-
Parliamentary Union.


"The majority of the cabinet members are women. It's a first in
the history of our country," President Tarja Halonen -- also a
woman -- said as she formally appointed the new administration.


While women will dominate numerically they will not head up the
most prestigious or influential portfolios, with the ministries
of finance, foreign affairs and defense all going to men.


Women will be in charge of the portfolios of agriculture,
transport, health, environment, interior, education, justice,
labour, European affairs and immigration, municipal affairs,
social services and telecommunications.


Following the country's March 18 legislative elections, Finland
also now places among the top three countries when it comes to
female representation in parliament.


With 84 women among the 200 MPs, or 42 percent, Finland places
third behind Rwanda with 48.8 percent and Sweden with 47.3
percent.


Finland has since 2000 had a female president, Tarja Halonen, who
was re-elected to a second six-year term in 2006. And in 2003 the
country elected then-Centre Party leader Anneli Jaeaetteenmaeki
as prime minister.


While Jaeaettenmaeki was forced to resign over an election
scandal after just 73 days in office, the country had two women
at the top two political posts for a brief while.


Finland's success at encouraging women in political life dates
back to the early days of Finnish democracy. In 1906, when the
country was still under Russian administration, Finnish women
were given the right to vote and stand for political office.


That was seven years before Norway granted its women the same
rights, 38 years before France, and 66 years before Switzerland.


Finnish women were preceded only by their sisters in New Zealand
and Australia. New Zealand gave women the right to vote in 1893
but not to stand for office, while Australia gave women limited
voting rights in 1902.


In Finland's first legislative elections, in 1907, 19 women were
elected to parliament. In 1926, Miina Sillanpaeae became the
country's first female cabinet member, serving as junior minister
for social affairs, a post she held for one year.

