

The Sudanese army denied on Thursday accusations in a leaked UN
report that it had used aircraft with UN markings to carry out
bombing raids and fly weapons to the western region of Darfur.


"This information is baseless," army spokesman Brigadier General
Othman Mohammed al-Aghbach told the official SUNA news agency.


"This type of accusation is unacceptable and can put an end to
cooperation with the parties initiating them," Aghbach said,
stressing that such practices would be "contrary to the
principles of the armed forces."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon called on Sudan to clarify the accusations
after the confidential report containing them was leaked to US
newspapers on Wednesday.


The UN chief "views with deep concern the evidence presented to
members of the Security Council regarding the flying of arms and
heavy weapons into Darfur in violation" of a Security Council
resolution, spokeswoman Michele Montas said.


"He is especially troubled by reports that private or national
aircraft have been illegally provided with UN markings for
military purposes.


"If further substantiated, such actions would be in clear
violation of international law and in contravention of the UN's
international status."


The United States expressed "real concern" about the report's
accusations and warned that they might be factor that could speed
up US consideration of sanctions against Sudan.


"It gives cause for real concern about the actions of the
Sudanese government in breaking the arms embargo," State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"It's a positive thing that this report is coming out because it
is important information that will inform the debate about what
diplomatic next steps should be taken concerning Darfur."


President George W. Bush warned on Wednesday that Sudan had just
one "last chance" to accept a 20,000-strong UN peacekeeping force
approved by the Security Council or face sanctions.


Photographs from the UN report published by the New York Times
showed a Sudanese armed forces plane. UN investigators said it
had been whitewashed and had "UN" stenciled on its wing and bombs
laid out beside it.


It said that this and other planes were being disguised and used
to bomb villages and transport cargo in Darfur, where a bloody
four-year-old conflict has caused a humanitarian crisis.


More than 200,000 people have died and at least two million more
fled their homes since ethnic minority rebels rose up in 2003
drawing a scorched earth response from the Arab-dominated
government and allied militias.

