

Columbine High School will close its doors to students on the
eighth anniversary of the 1999 massacre on Friday, which comes
just five days after the Virginia Tech tragedy.


A spokeswoman at Columbine said the school, in the Denver
suburbs, had no special ceremonies planned to commemorate the 12
students and one teacher shot dead by Eric Harris and Dylan
Klebold on April 20 eight years ago.


Instead, the school would be closed to students for a day of
staff development, the spokeswoman said.


Survivors and the families of victims of Columbine have had
painful memories reawakened this week following the gun rampage
at Virginia Tech University on Monday by South Korean student Cho
Seung-Hui that left 33 people dead.


Virginia police said that Cho was the likely killer of the first
two students slain, but they still did not have definitive proof.


In a chilling tribute to Columbine killers Harris and Klebold,
Cho even referred to "the martyrs Eric and Dylan" in his hate-
filled multi-media manifesto sent to US broadcaster NBC.


Columbine High School principal Frank DeAngelis told local
Colorado television station 9News that watching Monday's tragedy
unfold on television had plunged him back into the horrors of
April 20, 1999.


"It took me back ... feeling some of the emotions I felt that
day," DeAngelis told the broadcaster. "First thing I felt was
nausea. I just relived what happened at Columbine High School."


DeAngelis, who joined Columbine as a teacher 28 years ago, said
television images of the Virginia Tech shooting were eerily
similar to 1999.


"Even though it was in Virginia, I'm looking at Columbine High
School. I see the students coming out of the building as our
students," DeAngelis said.


Bill Biskup, a former music teacher at Columbine who has since
relocated to Texas, said he had broken down while watching this
week's reports.


"It tore me apart, I started crying at one point," said Biskup,
who is bracing for an emotional remembrance of Columbine on
Friday's anniversary.


"Friday will be tough for me, (April) 20th always is," he told
local television stations in Houston.


Craig Scott, a former Columbine student whose sister Rachel was
the first to be killed during Klebold and Harris's bloody
assault, also said this week's events had reopened old wounds.


"I have a lot of emotions that start to bubble back up, even feel
a little bit of shock, too," Scott told Colorado's 9News, saying
it was only natural for grieving families to feel anger at Cho.


"I also had some anger at this person because he has no idea the
lives he's taken away," Scott said. "He has no idea the people
he's impacted now."


But Scott offered comfort to relatives of victims. "Of course
their joy has been stolen, at least for a while, and hopefully
they can find joy in remembering the good times they had with
that person," he said.


DeAngelis said Virginia Tech victims would deal with their grief
in different ways. "You're going to have people who want to
discuss it," he said. "You're going to have people who want to
avoid it. You're going to have people who are in-between."


But the principal said this week's tragedy left the same
unanswered questions as Columbine.


"What causes so much hate in the hearts of the two killers from
Columbine or the killer up at Virginia Tech?" he said.

