

A French court on Thursday turned down a suit by citizens seeking
a ban on electronic voting machines in the presidential election
due to fears of errors and fraud, the plaintiffs said.


Voting machines have been rolled out in 82 French towns and
cities, home to some 1.5 million out of France's 44.5 million
voters, ahead of the first round on Sunday and the runoff set for
May 6.


Officials say the paperless system, where voters punch their
choice of candidate onto a tactile screen, will save the state
time and money.


But the machines have sparked a rumble of protest from voters and
politicians, who cite US and other studies that have found them
error-prone and vulnerable to hackers. More than 70,000 people
have signed an online petition opposing the move to e-voting.


The town of Issy-les-Moulineaux south of Paris, where the mayor
introduced 100-percent e-voting, is at the centre of the storm,
with local politicians of all stripes calling for a moratorium.


Spearheaded by the website www.betapolitique.fr, a dozen citizens
from Issy filed suit Tuesday to block the use of machines in
their town, claiming they ran on software not yet approved by the
interior ministry.


But according to Nicolas Barcet of betapolitique, the court in
Versailles threw out the case, saying that there was no violation
of voting rights.


The US firm Election Systems and Software has announced it was
replacing the contested model, the "Ivotronic", with an older one
vetted by the interior ministry, in Issy and seven other towns.


The regional authorities have insisted the machines now in place
provide "all guarantees for the exercise of the vote".


But Barcet said he was considering an appeal before the State
Council, France's highest administrative court, claiming the
machines are being rolled out without proper precautions.


"I am all for modernising the administration, but I'm just saying
'Watch out', the current procedures don't allow for proper
verification."


Barcet complains that, "according to all IT experts", the French
rules on e-voting published in 2003 allow for the use of machines
that do not meet the proper standards of transparency.


"I'm not paranoid, I don't think anyone introduced a virus to
alter people's votes -- but it's more about sparking a real
debate."


"We are going to replace a transparent urn with a black box --
which no voter will have the possibility to check -- we will
never know for sure if the result corresponds to the voters'
choice."


A similar legal suit was turned down this week in Cergy-Pontoise
west of Paris, while another was filed in Montpellier in the
south on Wednesday.

