

Eiffage, the third-biggest French civil construction group and
currently hunted by Spanish group Sacyr, is a jewel in the
national industrial crown.


It was formed in 1992 through amalgamation of several businesses:
Fougerolle (founded 1844), Quillery (founded 1863), Beugnet
(founded 1871) and La Societe Auxiliaire d' Enterprises
Electriques et de Travaux Public, better known as SAE (founded in
1924).


The group also has roots in the work of Gustave Eiffel who built
the Eiffel Tower landmark in Paris because it owns a subsidiary
that originated with Eiffel.


The tower of latticed steel girders is the top French tourist
attraction and the symbol of Paris around the world.


This subsidiary, created in 1866 under the name of the Ateliers
de contruction de Gustave Eiffel, specialised for years in highly
innovative engineering for structures such as bridges and
buildings using steel girders rivetted together.


From 1887 it started building the Eiffel Tower, in time for the
Universal Exhibition 1889, for which it also built the main hall,
the Grand Palais, another landmark in Paris today.


The work on the tower also led Gustav Eiffel towards the end of
his career to become an expert in aerodynamics, since wind
pressure is a vital factor in the stresses on bridges.


In 2004, the new parent group Eiffage completed the Millau
Viaduct spanning a valley subject to strong winds in southern
France. This bridge is also now a tourist attraction.


A spectacular feat of elegant engineering in the innovative
traditions of Gustav Eiffel, the viaduct is 2,460 metres (1.53
miles) long and is the highest bridge for vehicles in the world.
The summit of one of the pillars from which the bridge is
suspended rises to a height of 343 metres (1,125 feet), or
slightly higher than the Eiffel Tower and only 38 metres (125
feet) shorter than the Empire State Building in New York.


Eiffage, the the third-biggest civil engineering construction
group in France and the sixth-biggest in Europe, is building the
Perpignan-Figueras high-speed railway line from southern France
into northern Spain, which is due to be opened in 2009.


In view of this heritage, the possibility of Eiffage passing into
foreign control is likely to cause controversy in France where
defence of national industrial interests is a strong theme in a
presidential election campaign for which the first round of
voting occurs on Sunday.

