

The killing of three people at a Christian publishing house here
is the result of a "witch hunt" triggered by growing intolerance
towards Christians in mainly Muslim Turkey, leaders of the tiny
Protestant community said Thursday.


Wednesday's attack in the eastern city of Malatya "is appalling
savagery, but not a surprise for us," Ihsan Ozbek, a leader of
the Alliance of Protestant Churches in Turkey, told a news
conference here.


"Today in Turkey, there is a 'missionary hunt,' just like the
witch hunts of medieval times," he said. "Turkey is facing
dangers and threats unprecedented in its history. The fact is
that Turkey has become a place of unprecedented intolerance and
rejection."


Assailants on Wednesday slit the throats of three people, one of
them a German, at the Zirve (Summit) publishing house, owned by
the Protestant community and which distributed Bibles and
published Christian literature.


Police detained 10 people -- young men 19 to 20 allegedly driven
by nationalist and religious zeal -- in connection with the
murders.


Bedri Peker, another leader of the Alliance, accused officials,
politicians and the media of provoking hostility against
Christians.


"With constant enmity, some political party leaders, some
government officials in particular and some media organizations
are turning Christians into targets and provoking the public," he
said.


"Christians are being portrayed as criminals, separatists and
traitors," Peker said.


Peker said missionary activities are not banned under Turkish
law, adding: "It is our natural right, within the framework of
freedoms and liberties under constitutional guarantee, to
practice and preach our beliefs."


Ozbek urged the government to guarantee the safety of Christians
and act against anti-Christian hostility.


"Protestant blood has now been spilled in Turkey," Ozbek said.
"This very mood threatens our lives and safety."


Proselytizing is generally viewed with suspicion in Turkey, whose
population is 99 percent Muslim; small Greek Othodox, Catholic,
Armenian and Jewish communities are concentrated mainly in
Istanbul.


The Protestant Community consists of about 3,200 people,
according to Ozbek.

