

A humanitarian catastrophe is looming in Somalia unless heavy
fighting subsides and access for relief aid is opened up,
especially around Mogadishu, a United Nations official said
Thursday.


"Unless something is done, the humanitarian crisis is going to
turn into a catastrophe very soon," Eric Laroche, the UN's
humanitarian coordinator in Somalia, told journalists.


Laroche said relief deliveries to thousands of displaced people
were being blocked by government forces, UN aircraft were being
shot at, corpses were lying in the streets of the capital, a
cholera or diarrhoea epidemic is taking hold and new flooding is
likely soon.


UN officials are due to meet Somali officials on Monday to
discuss the situation, Laroche said, adding however that so far
the transitional government had made no attempt to help the UN's
humanitarian efforts.


Laroche said that in one incident, government forces stopped 40
trucks carrying relief supplies for about 14,000 displaced in
Afgooye, close to Mogadishu, and prevented them from distributing
aid.


Local staff who carry out the bulk of the UN's aid work in
Somalia were harassed and detained at checkpoints. Three mortars
were fired at the last aid flight near Mogadishu, the UN official
said.


Tensions in Somalia have risen again since Ethiopian forces
helped the UN-backed transitional government to oust Islamists
from Mogadishu at the start of the year.


The Islamists have launched a guerrilla war against the
Ethiopians and the capital is in the grip of fierce fighting,
while more than 124,000 people have fled the acity in the past
two months according to the UN refugee agency.


"We have been making attempts to reach the Ethiopian authorities.
I have never received an answer," Laroche said.


However, Laroche said access for relief aid in the rest of
central and southern Somalia has opened up in recent months.


A UN delegation was in Kismayo, a southern city that had been
largely out of bounds before, to organise aid deliveries.


The United Nations wants to deliver relief assistance to some one
million people, including about 400,000 who are displaced, over
the next six months.


"There is another crisis that no one is talking about, a cholera
epidemic," Laroche said.


About 12,400 people are suffering from acute watery diarrhoea
"which often is cholera" in Somalia, and 414 people have died, he
added. Many cases were not being treated because of the problems
delivering aid.


The rainy season is approaching and river banks broken by heavy
flooding last year have still not been repaired, opening the way
for new floods even with normal rainfall, Laroche said.


The cholera epidemic largely arose from last year's flooding.

