

Protesters demanding more royalties from a huge gas field in
southern Bolivia were in a tense stand-off with security forces
Thursday after taking dozens of police hostage during violent
clashes.


Authorities say residents of Yacuira on Wednesday overwhelmed and
captured 40 officers deployed to contain violent protests outside
a natural gas pumping plant operated by Royal Dutch Shell's
subsidiary Transredes, but protest leaders put the number of
police held hostage at 73.


The officers were still held on Thursday, the fourth consecutive
day of protests in the area.


On Tuesday, one man was killed and 20 more were wounded as police
and military troops clashed with the protesters, who authorities
said looted the Transredes plant in Yacuira, on the border with
Argentina and 1,200 kilometers (750 miles) south of the capital
La Paz.


The demonstrators cut off roads leading to Argentina and
Paraguay.


Protests were also held in the nearby town of Villamontes, as
residents of Gran Chaco province demand a greater share of
royalties from Margarita natural gas field amid rival claims by
the neighboring O'Connor province.


The gas field, which is not yet fully operational, is believed to
contain 20 percent of Bolivia's proven and probable natural gas
reserves, which authorities say total 1.55 trillion cubic meters
(54.74 million cubic feet).


Royalties from the field, operated by Spain's Repsol YPF,
amounted to 25 million dollars last year, when President Evo
Morales announced the nationalization of Bolivia's hydrocarbons
sector


The nationalization decree forced foreign companies to negotiate
new contracts giving Bolivia a majority share of the revenues
generated in the energy sector.


But political disagreements and mistakes in the new contracts
have caused major delays, and Congress is currently working to
approve 44 rewritten contracts with 10 multinationals.


South America's poorest country, Bolivia has the region's second-
largest natural gas reserves, after Venezuela.

