

Almost alone on the vast drill field which forms the core of the
Virginia Tech campus, a woman in a wheelchair offered prayers and
tears Thursday at a shrine to the 32 students and professors
slaughtered here three days earlier.


"The sadness is overwhelming," said Ellen Braaten, an emeritus
professor of architecture at the southwest Virginia university.


Under a thick grey sky, Braaten, who has taught 36 years at
Virginia Tech, said she waited until now -- her 65th birthday --
to avoid the crowds at the makeshift memorial, where 32 rocks are
placed in a semicircle to commemorate the people shot dead when
South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui went on a rampage.


Flowers and beads in the university's maroon and orange colors
were placed atop each stone, and at the center wreaths of
flowers, stuffed animals and candles were piling up three days
after the tragedy.


"I've heard from all of my students from all over the world,"
said Braaten, her eyes tearing up.


As police and forensics teams continued to comb through the
Norris Hall where Cho killed 30 just 50 meters (50 yards) away,
Braaten spoke about the difficulty of understanding a younger
generation more closely connected to violent video games and
movies.


"It has to be an aberration," she insisted determinedly.


With classes at the university cancelled until Monday, most
students have gone home and the drill field where several
makeshift memorials have been set up was virtually empty
Thursday.


Braaten said she will reconvene her classes Monday, offering
students choices on how they want to finish out the school term,
with only several weeks left.


She said she might let some put off their class work, or offer
students a chance to take their final grades based on work done
up until now. She will offer personal counseling to any that need
it.


But, with three dozen years at Virginia Tech under her belt, she
was confident life would resume on the sprawling campus in the
Appalachian mountain foothills.


"We'll stand tall," she declared.

