

Facing calls to step down, US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales
Thursday defended himself against charges he helped lead a White
House political purge of eight prosecutors.


"This notion that the Department is playing politics is simply
not true," Gonzales told a congressional committee investigating
the sackings last year.


He also flatly rejected charges that he had been less then
truthful over what he said were "these resignations" and told the
lawmakers that he knew "in my heart that I can continue to be
effective."


"I never sought to mislead or deceive the Congress or the
American people," he said.


"To the contrary, I have been extremely forthcoming with
information. Finally, and let me be clear about this: while the
process that led to the resignations was flawed, I firmly believe
that nothing improper occurred."


But lawmakers grilled Gonzales over the sackings which they said
had plunged the Justice Department into an unprecedented scandal.


"The Department of Justice is experiencing a crisis of leadership
perhaps unrivalled during its 137-year history," said committee
chairman Democrat Patrick Leahy.


"The Department of Justice should never be reduced to another
political arm of the White House -- this White House or any White
House."


Republican Arlen Specter told the top US law enforcement
official: "In a sense, it is a re-confirmation hearing. I'd like
you to win this debate, but you're going to have to win it,"
making it clear Gonzales was fighting to stay in his post.


Gonzales, a close ally of US President George W. Bush since the
years when Bush was still governor of Texas, appeared contrite
and humble as the hearing got under way before the Senate
Judiciary Committee.


There are 93 US attorneys across the United States, each of whom
is appointed by the president and charged with bringing to court
federal criminal and civil crime cases.


Federal US attorneys are supposed to prosecute crimes independent
of political considerations, but critics allege the eight fired
prosecutors were sacked because they failed to press their
investigations of Democrats, or because they appeared to be too
zealous in prosecuting Republicans.


Most of the attorneys were sacked in one go in December,
ostensibly for poor performance, in some cases during sensitive
investigations.


Members of Congress learned however that all eight had received
good performance reviews -- fueling allegations that the
dismissals were politically motivated.


But Gonzales simply, firmly stuck to the line of defense chosen
at the outset of the controversy a month ago, arguing that his
role in deciding to dismiss eight prosecutors was limited.


"Those eight attorneys deserved better -- they deserved better
from me and from the Department of Justice which they served
selflessly for many years," he told the committee.


"Each is a fine lawyer and dedicated professional. I regret how
they were treated, and I apologize to them and to their families
for allowing this matter to become an unfortunate and undignified
public spectacle. I accept full responsibility for this,"
Gonzales said.


"To be sure, I should have been more precise when discussing this
matter. I understand why some of my statements generated
confusion, and I have subsequently tried to clarify my words.


"My mis-statements were my mistakes -- no one else's, and I
accept complete and full responsibility here as well," he said.


Senators were also expected to concentrate on the possible role
in the firings played by Karl Rove, Bush's chief political
adviser.


The controversy has led to the disclosure about the disappearance
of relevant White House e-mails.


Democrats are now asking if some White House officials, beginning
with Rove, may have destroyed the documents to prevent them from
falling in the hands of Congress.

