

US experts doubt that Iran has begun enriching uranium in a
recently built line of some 1,300 centrifuges, believing the
expanded operation is still at the testing stage, a senior US
official said Thursday.


Inspectors for the UN atomic watchdog reported this week that
Iran had started feeding uranium gas into eight lines, or
cascades, of 164 centrifuges each at its Natanz nuclear facility
in defiance of UN demands it halt such work.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the report by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) was in line with US
estimates of the number of centrifuges the Iranians had built at
Natanz.


But he questioned reports that the Iranians had begun introducing
uranium hexafluoride gas, known as UF6, into the cascades in
order to obtain enriched uranium, which can be used to fuel
nuclear power plants or build atomic bombs.


"There is a question about for what purpose they might be
introducing UF6 into the centrifuges cascade," he said.


"I'm not aware of their introducing UF6 specifically to get the
end product of highly enriched or enriched uranium," he said.


McCormack said it was more likely the gas was introduced into the
centrifuges "basically to calibrate them and to test them for
whether or not they're working."


Iranian President Mahmud Ahmadinejad announced earlier this month
that Iran had begun "industrial scale" uranium enrichment,
meaning operating at least 3,000 centrifuges.


But experts expressed doubt that the Iranians had overcome the
significant technical hurdles involved in such an operation and
the IAEA report leaked to journalists this week confirmed that
the Iranian program remained far short of what would normally be
considered "industrial scale" enrichment.


McCormack suggested Iran's exaggeration of its capabilities was
designed both to firm up domestic support for Iran's nuclear
ambitions and to maintain Tehran's defiance of international
demands it suspend its nuclear work.


"The message that comes through most clearly is ... they're going
to continue to poke their finger into the eye of the
international system," he said.


"They should expect that there will be a response to that -- the
response is that they will find themselves increasingly
isolated," he said.


The United Nations has twice imposed sanctions on Iran over its
refusal to suspend its nuclear enrichment work in exchange for
incentives including energy aid and improved relations with the
United States.

