

The European Union on Thursday agreed to make inciting racism and
xenophobia a crime across the 27 member states, EU diplomats
said.


The new deal specifies one- to three-year prison terms for
"public incitement to violence or hatred directed against people
defined by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or
national or ethnic origin".


That would include encouraging such an act "by public
dissemination or distribution of tracts, pictures or other
material."


The deal, reached by EU justice ministers in Luxembourg, comes
after almost six years of wrangling and falls far short of
Germany's ambitions of specifically outlawing Holocaust denial


The text also notes that "member states may choose to punish only
conduct which is either carried out in a manner likely to disturb
public order or which is threatening, abusive or insulting."


Building on a previous attempt by Luxembourg in 2005, the bill
has consistently run up against the problems that it might pose
for free speech.


To make the text acceptable to Britain, Ireland and the
Scandinavian states -- concerned about curbs to free speech --
Holocaust denial will only qualify under the EU-wide rules if it
is deemed likely to incite hatred.


It is covered in a clause that states that the EU-wide penalties
will also apply to "publicly, condoning, denying or grossly
trivialising crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war
crimes," as defined by the International Criminal Court.


The EU minimum standards can of course be higher under national
rules and Holocaust denial is already specifically targeted by
laws in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Poland and Romania.


"Attempts to harmonise EU laws on hate crimes are both illiberal
and nonsensical," European Liberal Democrat Leader Graham Watson
said in a statement summing up the British opposition.


"The proposed list risks opening the floodgates on a plethora of
historical controversies -- like the crimes of the Stalinist
regime or the alleged Armenian genocide -- whose inclusion could
pose a grave threat to freedom of speech. The EU has no business
legislating on history," he added.


Holocaust denial was made a crime in Germany in 1985 and the use
of Nazi insignia is forbidden.


Germany had wanted to outlaw the denial of the murder of six
million Jews by the Nazis and their collaborators during World
War II before its six-month term at the helm of the EU runs out
at the end of June.


Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries has said that Germany had a
moral imperative to try to secure an EU-wide ban because of the
Third Reich's responsibility for the Holocaust.

