

Madonna, the one-time backing dancer who grafted her way to
becoming the "Queen of Pop", on Thursday urged Malawian youths to
work hard to realise their potential.


"Keep working hard. I hope you realise how much power you have to
make a good future for yourselves," the US singer told scores of
cheering and dancing villagers when she inspected a modern-day
care centre her charity Raising Malawi Organisation has built at
Mphandula village, 50 kilometres (31 miles) west of the capital
Lilongwe.


Making her first public speech since she landed here on Monday to
continue her charity work in this impoverished African nation,
Madonna, wearing a maroon T-shirt with the word Love, said: "It
is exciting to be here at the centre.


"It was a bush before and there was nothing, now there are these
beautiful buildings."


With toddler David Banda, the Malawian boy she intends to adopt,
Madonna said inside a hall built as part of the centre: "It is
not the buildings that matter, but your kind heart for giving
this land freely."


"Remember, this is a partnership. I have heard people say please
come back, this is a partnership and also help yourself and do
your part."


Alfred Chapomba, founder of the Consol Homes orphans charity,
which has partnered Madonna's group, gave the star a half-hour
tour of the campus as women danced and sang praises to their
important visitor.


Traditional chief Kalolo thanked Madonna for the infrastructure,
saying: "We are now proud villagers who are seeing this type of
development for the first time in our lives."


The chief told Madonna to continue developing the village, home
to about 2,500 people, but with neither running water nor
electricity. "Thank you for everything."


A local band equipped with home-made instruments entertained
Madonna for 10 minutes, with the "Material Girl" and David
throwing a step and dancing to the amusement of the villagers,
most of whom did not wear shoes.


Madonna kept urging David to dance and clap hands, and he
responded as the villagers cheered on.


Aida Kapondera, 62, vigourosly danced with Madonna for 10 minutes
to the sounds of the band.


"I enjoyed dancing with her," Kapondera told AFP, wiping sweat
from her forehead.


Photographers were kept away by Madonna's bodyguards from the
hall where the singer and her adopted son mixed freely with the
villagers.

