

Tributes to the victims of the massacre at Virginia Tech
University, from intimate online memorials to flowers piled at
the doors of the dead, tapped a wellspring of raw emotion over so
many lives so tragically and senselessly cut short.


"NO FAMILY SHOULD EVER HAVE TO LIVE THE NIGHTMARE YOURE GOING
THROUGH. SORRY FOR YOUR LOSS," Brad Wilson wrote, in capitals for
emphasis, in an online memorial book to the family of victim
Henry Lee (aka Henh Ly), one of the 32 people killed Monday by
South Korean student Cho Seung-Hui in the United States's
deadliest school shootings, in Blacksburg, southwestern Virginia.


Indian-born engineering professor G.V. Loganathan was remembered
as humble and warm and eminently available to his students.


"There were many nights when we'd stay up all night together so
he could give me guidance with reports or papers for conference,"
Craig Moore, a Virginia Tech doctoral student told Roanoke.com.
The Chennai native was gunned down as he taught an advanced
hydrology class.


Partahi "Mora" Lumbantoruan, a doctoral candidate from a military
family in Indonesia, was known in Blacksburg for his shy demeanor
and work ethic, local media said.


Local television showed the front doors of victims' homes graced
with flowers, candles and signs reminiscent of the September 11,
2001 attacks memorials dotted with trinkets and personal messages
to family or friends lost forever.


His father, retired Army officer Tohom Lumbantoruan, told
Indonesian news website Detikcom: "This is the destiny I have to
face.


"Since media ran reports of the shooting rampage, I have been
praying the Lord for my son's soul to keep. I kept waiting a
phone call from my son. But it was a phone call from the
Indonesian ambassador in the US that came to me, telling my son
was one of the victims."


In Blacksburg, the Indonesian Student Association volunteered to
clean up his apartment, where they learned Lumbantoruan's secret
passion: films about war, of which he had collected 30, The New
York Times reported.


Egyptian civil engineering student Waleed Shaalan, 32, left
behind a wife and small child to follow in his father's
professional footsteps, the Times reported.


Randy Dymond, a professor of civil engineering, said Shaalan
saved the life of a fellow graduate student when the shooter
opened fire in Longanathan's class and returned several times to
fire more. Dymond said that Shaalan, already shot himself, made a
noise to distract the shooter when he apparently noticed a
student still alive and took aim, the Times reported.


Another of the dead victims, Juan Ramon Ortiz, found joy in
everything from studying engineering to playing the drums, his
wife, Liselle Vega Cortes, told Roanoke.com.


"He loved life and he didn't deserve this," she told the website,
in tears.


Ortiz, 26, of Puerto Rico, a graduate student in civil
engineering, was in Loganathan's hydrology class when they were
killed.


On Facebook.com, Virginia Tech students posted Internet-age
tributes, with pictures, captions and favorite songs, to their
fallen friends.


Marcy Crevonis, 19, recalled her last hours with fiance Mike
Pohle, and how when she heard a gunman was on the loose at the
school, she contacted Mike, 23. He text-messaged her urging her
to stay put and lock her door. When she saw a television news
bulletin about the shooting, she phoned him, and got no answer.


So she sent him a text message: 'call me asap,' The Washington
Post said. It was too late; he had been gunned down in German
class.


The university, meanwhile, announced it would award posthumous
degrees to the students who were killed.

