

Duncan Fletcher quit as England coach on Thursday following the
team's dismal World Cup campaign, the England and Wales Cricket
Board announced.


Fletcher will leave his post after the final World Cup game
against West Indies here on Saturday after eight years in charge.


English cricket academy director Peter Moores is favourite to
replace Fletcher who had been severe pressure following the 5-0
Ashes drubbing over the winter.


His position became untenable after Tuesday's humiliating nine-
wicket defeat to South Africa meant they were knocked out of
World Cup semi-final contention.


ECB Chief Executive David Collier said: "ECB would like to
formally put on record our grateful thanks to Duncan Fletcher for
his outstanding service to cricket throughout England and Wales.


"He can be justifiably proud of a record which includes an Ashes
Series victory over Australia, a record eight successive Test
wins and Test series wins abroad in Pakistan, Sri Lanka, West
Indies and South Africa as well as the Commonwealth Bank series
success in Australia.


"England's rise to number two in the ICC Test Championship is in
no small measure due to his rigorous planning and excellent
coaching skills.


"Away from the international arena, Duncan was instrumental in
persuading the ECB and the First Class Counties to introduce
central contracts and his contribution provides an excellent
legacy for his successor. He leaves with our best wishes and
genuine appreciation from ECB for his achievements."


Fletcher said: "I always said that I would review my position as
England coach nearer to the end of the winter.


"Earlier in the World Cup I came to a decision about my future
and I discussed stepping down as head coach with the ECB prior to
England's game against Bangladesh.


"I feel it is in the team's best interests over the long term
that I should move on and seek a new challenge elsewhere.


"This has been a difficult winter for the team and for me
personally, but I believe that my record as coach over the past
eight years is one in which I can take great pride.


"I would like to thank all the players and the management team
for their contributions, the ECB for its support and for giving
me the opportunity to coach England and the England fans for
their ongoing support."

