

Duncan Fletcher will quit as England coach after their last World
Cup match against West Indies in Barbados on Saturday, the BBC
reported on Thursday.


Peter Moores, currently the England Academy coach, will take over
on a temporary basis, said the report.


David Morgan, the chief executive of the England and Wales
Cricket Board (ECB), is due to give a news conference in
Bridgetown later Thursday to discuss the team's pitiful World Cup
campaign which saw Michael Vaughan's side fail to reach the semi-
finals.


Fletcher, 58, has been England coach since 1999 but has been
under pressure since the winter when Australia reclaimed the
Ashes in a 5-0 whitewash.


England's exit from the World Cup was confirmed on Tuesday when
they were defeated by nine wickets by South Africa who claimed
the last semi-final spot as a result.


The names of potential successors are already being thrown into
the ring.


Former England captain Ian Botham believes former Australia Test
star and current Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody would be the ideal
replacement.


"Fletcher must go now. As the most powerful England coach of all-
time - with the right to pull players out of county games and
total control over the team's preparation - he must carry the can
for this shambles," Botham wrote in the Daily Mirror.


"He's done a fantastic job in the past with the Test side and we
will forever be grateful to him for the 2005 Ashes triumph, but
Fletcher has gone way past his sell-by date.


"The next move is staring the ECB in the face: they should
present Fletcher with the carriage clock, pay him off with
heartfelt thanks for his contribution over the last eight years
and go out and hire Tom Moody as his replacement.


"Moody is a former World Cup winner with Australia, he has
galvanised Sri Lanka and my guess is he'll be in the market for a
job after the World Cup. Especially the England job."


Another former England captain Geoff Boycott said that that
changes are also needed at the very top of the game in England
and nominated Mike Gatting as a new chairman of selectors.


"Fletcher has always got what he wanted: that is the bottom line.
Even David Graveney, the chairman of selectors, mumbles privately
about some of the players Fletcher picks, but he is not prepared
to stand up to him," Boycott wrote in the Daily Telegraph.


"England need a stronger man in this job, someone like Mike
Gatting, who should be responsible for picking the team and
giving it to the captain and coach to get on with. That is the
way the Aussies do it."


Boycott also questioned the future of Michael Vaughan as one-day
skipper after a dreadful run of form. Vaughan has never made a
one-day international century.


"Just look at Michael Vaughan, whose position will now have to be
seriously considered," added Boycott.


"You cannot keep your place in the one-day side just because you
are a good captain, or because you look elegant at the crease, or
even because you are playing well in the nets. A team of good-
lookers won't win anything.


"I would give Vaughan another chance in Test matches to see how
he goes, but he still has to make runs. His leadership skills are
his greatest asset, but even those will be eroded if he becomes a
passenger within the side."

