

Authorities were piecing together Thursday the details of
Monday's massacre of 32 people at Virginia Tech University, the
bloodiest school shooting in US history.


Progress in the investigation of the rampage, as well as clues
left by Cho Seung-Hui, 23, the South Korean student who gunned
down students and teachers before killing himself, have revealed
this timeline of Monday's events in Blacksburg, Virginia:


7:15 am: Police receive a 911 emergency phone call alerting them
of a shooting at West Ambler Johnston Hall, a dormitory on
campus. Two students, a man and a woman, are wounded. The bullets
came from a gun owned by Cho.


7:30 am: The two victims are taken to Montgomery Regional
Hospital, the nearest hospital to the campus. The woman is
already dead, the man dies soon afterward.


Police follow up leads concerning what they describe as a "person
of interest" in relation to the double homicide.


8:00 am: Classes begin for most of the 9,000 students who reside
on campus and the thousands more who live off-campus.


Police evacuate the dormitory where the shootings occurred, warn
other residents to stay in their rooms and begin to question
witnesses. The investigation pursues the theory that a boyfriend
of the slain woman was the gunman.


University officials hold a meeting and discuss for an hour what
action to take.


9:01 am: A package addressed to NBC television in New York City
is mailed at the Blacksburg post office. It contains videos,
photos and text in which Cho expresses his anger and reasons for
revenge.


9:26 am: The university informs students of the dormitory
shootings in an email and advises them to be cautious and to
contact police if they see anything suspicious.


A couple of minutes later, Cho enters Norris Hall, a building of
classrooms, offices and laboratories. He uses chains to barricade
doors from the inside to prevent his victims from fleeing and to
block intervention.


He goes to the second floor, enters a classroom and begins to
fire methodically, without saying a word.


He moves from room to room, sometimes returning to a room to kill
again.


Some try to block the classroom door to stop him from entering,
others pretend they are dead. Several students jump from second-
story windows to escape the carnage. Students are crying, the
wounded are groaning, someone vomits.


Cho enters a fourth room and shoots himself in the head moments
before police arrive on the second floor. Thirty people are dead
and nearly as many wounded, some of them in critical condition.


9:50 am: University officials send a second email to students,
warning: "A gunman is loose on campus. Stay in buildings until
further notice. Stay away from all windows." Loudspeakers
broadcast a similar message.


10:16 am: University officials send a third email announcing the
cancellation of all classes and urging students "to remain where
they are, lock their doors and stay away from windows."


10:52 am: A fourth university email warns of "a multiple shooting
with multiple victims" in Norris Hall. It says the gunman has
been arrested and that police are hunting for a possible second
shooter, and campus entrances are locked.


In fact, Cho is dead and no one had been arrested, but police had
located the boyfriend of the initial female killed and were
questioning him when they learned of the second shooting
incident.


shortly after 12:15 am: Virginia Tech president Charles Steger
and campus police chief Wendell Flinchum tell a news conference
that more than 20 people had been killed. During the course of
the afternoon, the death toll mounted to 33, including the
gunman.

