

Environment Minister John Baird testified Thursday at a Senate
environment committee that trying to meet Canada's Kyoto Protocol
vow to reduce carbon emissions would spark a massive recession.


He told the committee reviewing a private member's bill to force
the minority Conservative government to meet its Kyoto timetable
for cutting carbon emissions that meeting those targets would
have "a devastating effect on the Canadian economy."


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012,
but a 2006 government environmental audit found emissions had
instead increased by 26.6 percent.


Prime Minister Stephen Harper has maintained that the Kyoto
targets, agreed to by a previous Liberal government, are
unattainable.


In order to meet its Kyoto target, "the government would need to
manufacture a recession," Baird said. "The government would need
to introduce major punitive measures to get the deep cuts and
emissions in the very short time. frame required (under Kyoto)."


"To be effective, these measures would have to impose costs on
the entire economy," he said.


Such would require "every Canadian family, business, and industry
to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by one-third beginning
in just eight months," he said, citing a handful of economists
and government experts.


Baird claimed natural gas prices would "more than double" with a
few years, gasoline prices would increase by 60 percent,
electricity prices would double, and plants would have to curtail
production and slash their workforces.


"The cost to maintain a home or business would skyrocket," he
said.


By 2009, more than 275,000 Canadians would lose their jobs and
Canada's unemployment rate would rise by 25 percent.


Canada's economy meanwhile would decline by more than 6.5 percent
relative to current projections in 2008, falling about 4.2
percent or about 51 billion Canadian dollars (45 billion US)
below the 2007 level.


"That implies a deep recession in 2008," Baird said.


"I believe this is a massive and unacceptable cost for Canadian
families," he concluded.

