

Nigeria's main opposition parties said on Thursday they will
participate in Saturday's presidential election, despite an
earlier boycott threat, but the spectre of political violence
still hangs over the ballot.


The two main Nigerian opposition parties -- the All Nigeria
Peoples Party (ANPP) and the Action Congress (AC) -- said
Thursday in separate statements that they would not carry out a
threatened boycott of the poll.


"We will participate fully in the National Assembly and
presidential elections," ANPP chairman Edwin Ume-Ezeoke told a
news conference in Abuja.


The two parties were among 18 who threatened on Tuesday to
boycott the election unless it was postponed.


The other parties were meeting late Thursday to decide whether to
go ahead with a boycott.


One opposition official, Pius Bala Simon of the New Democrat
party, told AFP the result of the presidential poll "has already
been decided" and described the decision of the two biggest
parties to participate as "unfortunate".


"By participating, we will only help in legitimising the PDP",
the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, he said.


The election to choose a successor President Olusegun Obasanjo is
being billed as the first civilian-to-civilian handover since the
world's sixth biggest oil exporter won independence from Britain
in 1960.


But Saturday's presidential and National Assembly poll has been
preceded by widespread violence and political turmoil over moves
to stop the vice president from taking part and controversy over
the results state governorship and parliamentary polls held last
weekend.


Police say at least 21 people were killed following last
Saturday's polls while authorities imposed a curfew on at least
six states that were hit by political unrest. Final results from
that poll have still not been released.


Obasanjo, whose government has condemned the boycott move, has
prolonged until May 29 a six-month-old state of emergency in the
southwestern state of Ekiti.


He warned that unrest in Ekiti "could snowball into a complete
state of anarchy and lawlessness that could spread to
neighbouring states".


The main northern city of Kano was described as calm but tense by
residents on Thursday after troops killed 25 suspected Islamic
militants in gunbattles the day before.


Authorities said about 400 militants had been flushed out of
their stronghold in part of the city and that the area had been
cordoned off.


The military offensive followed an attack Tuesday on a police
station that left 12 officers and one civilian dead.


The election contest will be between three northerners: Umaru
Yar'Adua of the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP), Vice
President Atiku Abubakar, who defected from the PDP to run as
candidate for the opposition Action Congress (AC), and former
military ruler Muhammadu Buhari.


Yar'Adua was flown to Germany for emergency medical treatment in
March, but health concerns aside, he is seen as holding the edge
over his two main rivals.

