

Embattled World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz looked more
isolated than ever Thursday as directors debated his fate amid
the rumblings of a civil war among senior staff.


The 24 executive directors, who are national appointees, cleared
out their weekly agenda to discuss what action to take over a pay
and favoritism scandal that has engulfed the former Pentagon
deputy chief.


The meeting came a day after Wolfowitz attended a stormy meeting
of senior staffers during which one of his two top deputies --
managing director Graeme Wheeler of New Zealand -- told him
directly to quit.


Wheeler could not be immediately reached for comment but insiders
said his call was an astonishing display of top-level anger about
the damage that is being done to the World Bank's reputation.


"The characterization from people involved in the meeting was 'I
can't believe you're asking our opinion'," one bank insider said
after Wolfowitz offered to make some management changes in a bid
to rebuild his support.


"It's not about management style. It's not about interaction with
staff," the source said on condition of anonymity.


"There was an exasperation that was conveyed to Wolfowitz: what
part of 'resign' don't you understand?"


Reports said senior managers from Latin America and Asia had
sided with Wheeler, but that Wolfowitz enjoyed backing from
officials he appointed to head the bank's Middle East and Africa
divisions.


The board was meeting for the first time since last week
revealing that Wolfowitz in 2005 personally ordered a hefty pay
package worth nearly 200,000 dollars and guaranteed promotions
for his girlfriend at the bank, Shaha Riza.


On releasing the documents, which include detailed instructions
from Wolfowitz to the bank's human resources division, the
directors said last Friday they would "move expeditiously" to
decide on possible actions to take.


On Sunday, at the annual spring meeting of bank ministerial
policymakers, governments expressed "great concern" over the
affair and supported the board's inquiry. Wolfowitz, meanwhile,
vowed to fight on.


Battle lines were drawn over the weekend between European
governments, which have long been suspicious of Wolfowitz, and a
camp of supporters that includes the United States, Japan and
some African countries.


While campaigning against corruption, Wolfowitz is also leading a
drive to raise up to 25 billion dollars from rich donors to
sustain the World Bank's development funding for the poorest
countries.


That has left some campaigners worried that governments in Europe
could use his fate as a bargaining chip over the US government.


Even the White House, while continuing to back Wolfowitz, has
urged the board to "get to the facts ... and think of the long-
term effectiveness of the institution."


The bank's five biggest shareholders -- in descending order, the
United States, Japan, Germany, Britain and France -- appoint a
director each. The 19 other directors represent the rest of the
bank's 185 member states.


After Wolfowitz took over the World Bank in June 2005, the
Libyan-born Riza was sent on assignment to the US State
Department to prevent any conflicts of interest. But she has
remained on the bank's payroll.


It has also emerged that while Wolfowitz was still at the
Pentagon, Riza visited Baghdad as a consultant for US military
contractor Science Applications International Corp. (SAIC) in
2003, just after the US-led invasion of Iraq.


That has fueled the anger of World Bank staff, who have long been
fuming at Wolfowitz's appointment of former White House aides to
key jobs in his inner circle, and complained at his attempts to
revive a bank presence in Iraq.

