

UN chief Ban Ki-moon has welcomed rival settlement plans by
Morocco and the separatist Polisario Front over the disputed
phosphate-rich Western Sahara but urged the two sides to
negotiate without preconditions.


"I encourage the parties to enter into negotiations in good faith
without preconditions," Ban said in his latest report released
this week ahead of Friday's UN Security Council consultations on
the mandate of the UN Mission for the Referendum in Western
Sahara (MINURSO).


The UN secretary general described 479-strong MINURSO's continued
presence as "indispensable for the maintenance of the cease-fire"
in the territory.


He therefore recommended that the mission's mandate, which
expires April 30, be extended for a further six months until next
October 31.


Referring to settlement proposals put forward by the rival sides,
the UN secretary general said he welcomed "every effort that can
advance the possibility of achieving a just and mutually
acceptable solution."


Last week, Morocco proposed an autonomy referendum in Western
Sahara, but the Algerian-backed Polisario Front fighting Rabat's
rule in the territory put forth a contrary plan to end the
32-year conflict.


The Moroccan proposal envisages giving locals "control over their
affairs through legislative, executive and judicial institutions"
under the aegis of Moroccan sovereignty and calls for
"negotiations for a political solution acceptable to all
parties."


Under the plan, the autonomous parliament would comprise members
of the diverse tribes and be directly elected.


Western Sahara would control agriculture, investment, trade,
tourism and industry but Morocco would retain the "attributes of
sovereignty" in the region with its flag, money and national
anthem.


But the Polisario Front has submitted a completely different plan
to the UN and rejected the Moroccan proposal, upholding "the
right of the (local) people for self-determination."


Morocco annexed the desolate northwest African territory after
the withdrawal of the region's former colonial power Spain and
neighbor Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it with around 300,000
Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the Algerian-backed Polisario Front, an armed
group which contested Rabat's sovereignty, ending only in 1991
with a UN-brokered cease- fire.

