

The war in Iraq "is lost" and a US troop surge is failing to
bring peace to the country, the leader of the Democratic majority
in the US Congress, Harry Reid, said Thursday.


"I believe ... that this war is lost, and this surge is not
accomplishing anything, as is shown by the extreme violence in
Iraq this week," Reid told journalists.


Reid said he had delivered the same message to US President
George W. Bush on Wednesday, when the US president met with
senior lawmakers to discuss how to end a standoff over an
emergency war funding bill.


"I know I was the odd guy out at the White House, but I told him
at least what he needed to hear ... I believe the war at this
stage can only be won diplomatically, politically and
economically."


Congress is seeking to tie funding for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan to a timetable to withdraw US troops from Iraq next
year, but Bush has vowed to veto any such bill and no
breakthrough was reported from the White House talks.


Bush on Thursday was addressing an Ohio town hall meeting and
defending the war on terror launched in the wake of the September
11, 2001 attacks.


"It is the most solemn duty of our country, is to protect our
country from harm," Bush told the invited audience in Tipp, Ohio.


"A lesson learned was that -- at least in my opinion -- that in
order to protect us, we must aggressively pursue the enemy and
defeat them elsewhere so that we do not have to face them here."


But Reid drew a parallel with former US president Lyndon Johnson
who decided to deploy more troops in Vietnam some 40 years ago
when 24,000 US troops had already been killed.


"Johnson did not want a war loss on his watch, so he surged in
Vietnam.  After the surge was over, we added 34,000 to the 24,000
who died in Vietnam," Reid said.


The comments came a day after bombers killed more than 200 people
in a slew of car bombings in Baghdad, dealing a savage blow to
the US security plan which aims to deploy an extra 30,000 troops
in the country to quell sectarian unrest.


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates fly into Iraq Thursday on an
unannounced visit for talks with top US military commanders
there.


He met with General David Petraeus, chief of coalition forces in
Iraq, his deputy Lieutenant Colonel Ray Odierno and Admiral
William Fallon, chief of US forces in the Middle East.

