

NATO has identified up to five enclaves in the relatively calm
north of Afghanistan where Taliban insurrections could spread,
the head of coalition forces in the country said Thursday.


"In the north, which is a huge area, we are not seeing a great
amount of insurgency up there," said US General Dan McNeill.


"Could it happen? Yes, it possibly could. And we have identified
four or maybe five enclaves where it could happen," he added,
without specifying where the attacks could take place.


Nine Afghan policemen were killed Tuesday in a suicide bombing in
the northern city of Kunduz, the first such attack to hit the
north of the country since June last year.


"The chief of police of Kunduz was in my office about four days
before that event," McNeill said.


"He's less concerned about the insurgency and more concerned
about the violence that is a symptom of or created by the drugs
trade."


Asked about the possible eventual spread of the insurgency in the
north, the head of the International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) said: "Not yet."


Taliban have increased their number of attacks and suicide
bombings in the south of the country, their traditional
stronghold, notably in Helmand province, the most important poppy
growing region in the world.


The eastern part of the country, which borders Pakistan, is also
restive, as well as certain areas in the west.


The north, relatively unscathed by the violence, is mainly made
up of Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras.


McNeill also said ISAF had a plan to regain control of districts
in Helmand which the Taliban had seized, including Musa Qala.
"But it takes time. It is important to be patient," he said.


Last month, ISAF and the Afghan army launched a major offensive
against the Taliban.


"Our best tactic is to get Afghan security forces trained and
operational. They will solve the issue," he said, adding he hoped
the Afghan forces would be 70,000-strong by 2009.


He declined to put a figure on the number of insurgents. "If
there are more of them, our equipment and technology should
compensate."


ISAF has 37,000 troops from 37 countries, the majority of whom
are stationed in the south of Afghanistan.

