

The dollar's slide against the euro and sterling has left US
authorities silent, with analysts saying the weak greenback may
be a benefit for Washington and its preoccupation with Asia.


The dollar has been hovering near all-time lows against the euro
and the British pound has risen above two dollars for the first
time in 26 years, but this has generated no comments from
Washington.


US officials "are not saying anything right now because they're
not especially worried about the weakening of the US exchange
rate given that it has yet to put unwanted upward pressure on
Treasury bond yields," said John Lonski, chief economist at
Moody's Investors Service.


Lonski said that low rates for US bonds mean there is strong
demand for government debt and Washington is not forced to pay
higher rates for borrowing.


"Given the deceleration of domestic spending, the US Treasury
quietly approves of recent dollar exchange rate weakness," he
said.


The Treasury has not changed its public mantra that a strong
dollar is in the nation's interest.


Market movements accelerated after last weekend's meeting of
Group of Seven finance ministers, which repeated a phrase that
exchange rates "should reflect economic fundamentals" and that
excessive fluctuation is "undesirable."


The G7 had faced some pressure from Europe to deal with the weak
yen, which is being used for so-called carry trades using low-
cost loans in Japan.


But Washington and Tokyo had resisted any specific language on
the yen, and the result has been further weakness in the Japanese
currency. The dollar has been impacted by the shift into European
currencies and amid concerns about softening US economic
conditions.


David Kotok, analyst at Cumberland Advisors, said Washington
appears more focused on the Chinese yuan in the face of a massive
US trade deficit with China, and to some degree on the yen.


Kotok said the US administration "seems to make its noise in the
direction of the Far East," but is silent about the yen "because
the administration knows the Japanese are weaning themselves from
a zero-interest rate policy."


In the United States and Britain, key rates stand at 5.25
percent. The main interest rate is at 3.75 percent in the
eurozone and 0.50 percent in Japan.


Analysts expect the Bank of England to increase British interest
rates by a quarter-point to 5.50 percent in May and further still
before the end of 2007. Eurozone rates are also believed headed
higher but traders expect US rates to go lower this year.


"The growth rate in Europe is higher or projected to be higher
than in the US, and the growth rate in China is substantially
higher," Kotok said.


"The strength of the currencies around the world are not
determined by rhetoric, they are determined by economic
variables, particularly the real interest rate," or the base rate
minus the inflation rate.


Eric Chaney, analyst at Morgan Stanley, said the investment
bank's calculations show the euro is 20 percent over-valued
against the US dollar, 34 percent against the yen and 16 percent
against the Swiss franc, with only sterling sightly overvalued
against the single European currency.


"In the real world of financial markets, fundamentals matter only
in the long term and deviations from fundamentals may last for
long periods of time," Chaney said.


Some European officials fear the high euro may kill off the
economic recovery by pricing the zone's exports out of the
market.


But Chaney said eurozone officials "have already implicitly
acknowledged that a weaker US dollar makes sense, in order to
reduce the US current account deficit that they have identified
as a threat for financial stability."


Analysts point out that the US trade deficit was cut in half
between 1985 and 1995 during an earlier round of dollar weakness.


But this time, things may be different. Economist Peter Morici of
the University of Maryland said much of the US trade gap comes
from oil imports and China, which may see little impact from a
weaker dollar.


Kotok said the weak dollar is a reflection of the US status as
the "world's biggest debtor nation" but that the low value of the
currency may do little to spark the economy.


"Marginally, a cheaper currency helps exporters," he said.
"However in the US the bulk of the economy is services and
therefore the total macroeconomic impact is relatively small
compared with a goods-related economy."

