

Television images of US university gunman Cho Seung-Hui coldly
delivering a hate-filled rant have sparked controversy and raised
the question of where public information stops and voyeurism
begins.


Police and families of those killed in Monday's shooting
criticized the decision to air the "disturbing" images, saying
the public should not have seen the pictures, with others saying
the networks had played into Cho's hands.


Videos and images that the gunman sent to NBC News on Monday,
apparently mid-way through his rampage at Virginia Tech
University, features the student posing with guns and calmly
telling the camera: "You have blood on your hands."


NBC executives reportedly spent hours agonizing over whether to
broadcast the video and justified its broadcast in a statement
that said the network would exercise restraint in how frequently
it showed the material.


"We believe it provides some answers to the critical question,
'why did this man carry out these awful murders?'," the network
said.


"The decision to run this video was reached by virtually every
news organization in the world, as evidenced by coverage on
television, on websites and in newspapers."


Nevertheless, anchor Matt Lauer said "there's going to be a lot
of debate about whether we should have aired this." Another
anchor, Brian Williams, added: "This was a sick business tonight,
going on the air with this."


CNN television broadcast the images, which it said provided a
"powerful insight into the mind of a killer," while the FOX
network said it had decided to stop broadcasting the images,
without explaining its decision.


Beyond the United States, the images hit televisions around the
world.


Suhail Samaha, the cousin of Reema Samaha, one of the victims,
said he would rather not have seen the video. "It just didn't
serve any purpose except to make me angry," he told AFP.


Virginia police superintendent Steve Flaherty also opposed the
airing, telling reporters: "We're rather disappointed in the
editorial decision to broadcast these disturbing images."


"I just hate that a lot of folks who are not used to seeing that
type of image had to see it," he said.


Richard Wald, a former president of NBC News and now professor of
journalism at Columbia University said networks had to weigh up
questions of legality, public interest and taste before deciding
whether to broadcast such images.


Their decision would backfire on networks "if the public decides
at some point that this was the wrong thing to do and it wasn't
called for," he said.


"The way you do your work is based on public acceptance. If you
lose that, you lose some piece of your audience, you lose some
piece of your credibility."


The question came down to whether a network accurately judged the
public's sense of what is decent and tasteful, he said.


"If you're going to make a mistake on this kind of work, you
should make the mistake in terms of serving the public, of giving
the public information that it ought to have."


"My tendency would be to publish, to allow people to see what
kind of person this was." He said of police comments that the
public should have been shielded from such images: "That's nice,
but that's not the world we live in.


"There are rights that the public has too. People want a sense of
who is this guy and where does he come from and how do you
account for it. And they're entitled to know."


Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Project for Excellence in
Journalism, said the question over whether or not to broadcast
came down to whether the networks could tell the story without
being manipulated by their source.


"The risk here is: are you allowing Cho to taunt and haunt
people? Are you adding to the trauma or are you helping the
public get an insight into how this can happen in their society?"


Media outlets had to tread a fine line -- one that Rosentiel said
had been crossed when images no longer informed viewers but
played on their emotions. "Once you're not learning anything new,
we're probably being used by Cho."


He said that while NBC had been sensitive and shown restraint,
the images could end up being endlessly repeated on cable
networks. "That's clearly playing into his derangement," he said.


But Clint Van Zandt, a former profiler with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, told the Los Angeles Times that airing the footage
played straight into Cho's hands.


"This is what this guy wants," he said. "He wants to be able to
reach his hand out of the grave and grab us by the throat and
make us listen to him one more time."

