

A Briton jailed in Zimbabwe over a coup plot in Equatorial Guinea
expressed fears Thursday he would be tortured if extradited for
trial to the west African country, his lawyer said.


Lawyer Jonathan Samkange said that Simon Mann had also denied
involvement in the foiled coup during his extradition hearing at
Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison, on the outskirts of Harare.


No journalists except employees of state run media were allowed
to attend Thursday's court proceedings but Samkange gave a brief
summary of events.


"Mann gave his evidence-in-chief today at Chikurubi and in short
he was denying the charges and said he fears he will be subjected
to torture if he is extradited to Equatorial Guinea," the lawyer
told AFP.


"The prosecution has now started cross-examination."


Samkange said Eton-educated Mann "looked sick" and gave evidence
sitting on a chair because of his failing health.


Mann and 61 other men were arrested when their plane landed at
Harare international airport in March 2004.


They were said to have been stopping off to pick up weapons en
route to Malabo to join an advance team led by South African Nick
du Toit, who was himself arrested and then sentenced to 34 years
in prison in Malabo.


The former officer in Britain's Special Air Service was handed a
seven-year term for the purchase of weapons that prosecutors said
were to be used to topple President Obiang Nguema, ruler of the
oil-rich west African state since 1979.


The sentence was later cut to four years.


Most of those arrested with Mann were released from a Zimbabwean
prison in 2005 and the Briton is due to be freed in May.


Equatorial Guinea authorities want him to face another trial in
Malabo.


The case made headlines worldwide following the arrest in Cape
Town in August 2004 of Mark Thatcher, the wealthy son of former
British prime minister Margaret Thatcher, who allegedly helped
bankroll the coup bid.


Thatcher eventually pleaded guilty in a South African court to
unwittingly helping to finance the alleged coup and was fined
some 400,000 euros (510,000 dollars).


The hearing continues Friday.

