

Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych offered to re-open
crisis talks with President Viktor Yushchenko Thursday, as the
country's top court considered Yushchenko's attempt to dissolve
parliament and hold early elections.


Yanukovych asked Foreign Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk to organise a
new round of talks, to be mediated by Russian ambassador Viktor
Chernomyrdin and US ambassador William Taylor, news agency
Interfax reported.


The country has been locked in political crisis since the pro-
Western Yushchenko ordered the dissolution of parliament on April
2 and called for early elections.


Yushchenko has accused Yanukovych's pro-Russian parliamentary
coalition of violating the constitution. Yanukovych has rejected
the accusation and insists there is no reason for early
elections.


Thousands of people from both sides of the political divide
demonstrated outside the constitutional court on Thursday as
presidential representative Volodymyr Shapoval put the case for
dissolving parliament to the 18 judges.


Yanukovych's allies had committed a "grave violation of voters'
rights" by trying to lure additional deputies over to their side,
Shapoval told the court.


The judges questioned Shapoval extensively on the president's
reasons for dissolving parliament.


On Wednesday, the court hearings were disrupted when protestors
prevented judges from entering the building for an hour.


Police reinforcements and a metal fence now separate the rival
supporters outside the court.


The crisis is being closely watched by outside powers anxious
about the political course of this country of 47 million people,
located between the European Union and NATO to the west and
Russia to the east.


But both Yushchenko and Yanukovych say they will respect the
court's final decision.


On Thursday, Yushchenko cancelled a planned trip to western
Ukraine because of the "political situation," his office said,
Interfax reported.


Yanukovych was in Poland meeting with President Lech Kaczynski
and Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski.

