

Bangladesh's military-backed government was Thursday completing
negotiations with Saudi authorities for the exile of outgoing
premier Khaleda Zia, sources and reports said.


The former prime minister, 61, may spend the rest of her life
abroad after the interim authorities decided to expel her by
Sunday as part of a major campaign to clean up the country's
dysfunctional and notoriously corrupt political system.


Her arch rival, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, is also set for a life in
exile after she was charged with murder in absentia while on
holiday in the United States and the government said it would bar
her from returning.


Many blame the two women for the political turmoil that ended in
January with the imposition of emergency rule and the
cancellation of elections scheduled for later that month.


"The government gave the ultimatum to Khaleda Zia to leave by
Sunday and they are preparing her visa and passport details," one
of Zia's aides told AFP.


"Khaleda Zia will not oppose the will of the government, and if
it tells her to leave today or tomorrow (Thursday or Friday) she
will be forced to go," the aide added.


A government source told the Daily Star newspaper that talks were
held with Saudi diplomats on Wednesday and "most of the things
including visas for Khaleda Zia and her family were finalised."


Remaining formalities would be completed on Thursday, said the
source, adding that Zia's stay in Saudi Arabia was expected to be
"prolonged."


Zia, living under virtual house arrest, is expected to leave for
the kingdom in return for leniency for her two sons, who face
corruption and extortion allegations as part of the interim
government's crackdown.


Media reports said Zia, who held the premiership twice and is the
widow of the assassinated former president Ziaur Rahman, would
leave with her younger son Arafat Rahman and his two children.


Tareque Rahman is expected to join the family in Saudi Arabia at
a later date. Corruption charges against him were frozen on
Tuesday as part of a deal to secure Zia's departure.


A BNP supporter has made a high court challenge against the
restrictions on Zia's movements, the private bdnews24 news
service reported, although this was seen as little more than a
symbolic gesture of defiance.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina, leader of the Awami League, are both
members of political dynasties that have dominated the political
landscape since Bangladesh won independence in 1971.


Sheikh Hasina is the daughter of Bangladesh's independence leader
and first president Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.


Press secretary Abul Kalam Azad said Thursday that she had left
the US and arrived in London.


The two women have held power alternately since 1991 when
democracy was reinstated.


Their leadership, however, has been blamed by many for the
country's recent political instability, which saw violent mass
protests, blockades and running battles between police and party
activists.


The government has pledged to hold elections by the end of 2008
after it has completed far-reaching reforms aimed at putting
democracy back on track.

