

A massive recession would result if Canada tried to meet its
Kyoto Protocol vow to reduce carbon emissions, Environment
Minister John Baird testified Thursday at a Senate environment
committee.


He told the committee reviewing a private member's bill to try to
force the minority Conservative government to meet its Kyoto
timetable that the emissions reductions targets would have "a
devastating effect on the Canadian economy."


More than 275,000 Canadians would lose their jobs by 2009 and
Canada's unemployment rate would rise by 25 percent, he
predicted.


Canada's economy meanwhile would decline by more than 6.5 percent
relative to current projections in 2008, falling about 4.2
percent or about 51 billion Canadian dollars (45 billion US)
below the 2007 level.


"That implies a deep recession in 2008," Baird said.


"I believe this is a massive and unacceptable cost for Canadian
families," he concluded.


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012,
but a 2006 government environmental audit found emissions had
instead increased by 26.6 percent.


Prime Minister Stephen Harper has maintained that the Kyoto
targets, agreed to by a previous Liberal government, are
unattainable.


To meet its Kyoto targets, "the government would need to
manufacture a recession," Baird said.


"The government would need to introduce major punitive measures
to get the deep cuts of emissions in the very short time frame
(under Kyoto)," he said.


Liberal Senator Grant Mitchell countered that Baird was "fear-
mongering about possible implications for the economy to justify
their lack of action."


Opposition Liberal Environment Critic David McGuinty said in a
statement Baird's conclusions on the economic implications of
Kyoto are "based on extreme, unproven and unrealistic
assumptions."


"They intentionally disregard the positive economic benefits that
would be attained from better energy efficiency, lower energy
use, and jobs related to the development of emission reductions
activities."


But Baird insisted a climate change crackdown would require
"every Canadian family, business, and industry to reduce their
greenhouse gas emissions by one- third beginning in just eight
months."


Citing a handful of economists and government experts, he claimed
natural gas prices would "more than double" within a few years,
gasoline prices would increase by 60 percent, electricity prices
would double, and plants would have to curtail production and
slash their workforces.


"The cost to maintain a home or business would skyrocket," he
said.

