

The Romanian parliament voted Thursday to suspend President
Traian Basescu in a first step to impeaching him, throwing the
country into political turmoil just under four months after
joining the EU.


Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu, who has been in a long-running
feud with the president, said: "I ask Traian Basescu to honour
his own decision to resign and cut all ties with the presidency."


The president has said he would resign if parliament voted to
suspend him. This would force a new presidential election in
which he would stand.


The 55-year-old remains a popular figure in Romania and could win
back his post.


Basescu's close collaborators said he would announce his
resignation after his suspension has been made official, which
should occur within 48 hours of the vote.


The leader of the opposition Social Democrats who spearheaded the
move against Basescu, Mircea Geoana, said the vote was "a victory
for Romanian democracy even if it is a difficult moment."


Opposition members, led by the Social Democrats, say Basescu
violated the constitution by acting in a partisan way and
violating his role as mediator.


Basescu's impeachment must be approved in a referendum, which
must be held within 30 days of Thursday's vote.


A total of 322 members of Romania's 469-seat parliament voted for
his suspension, while 108 voted against and ten abstained. The
motion needed the backing of 235 MPs to be adopted.


The three opposition parties that filed the motion against
Basescu and which hold 228 parliamentary seats, said they would
vote for his impeachment.


MPs from Tariceanu's National Liberal Party and its coalition
partner in the minority government also supported the motion
after their leaders told them Wednesday to vote as they chose.


Basescu's Democrats, who have 71 seats in parliament, have
opposed the impeachment request since it was launched.


The president was accused of 19 constitutional violations,
including "controlling through those close to him all state
institutions, of interfering in the law and protecting the
interests of the mafia in the Romanian economy."


Opposition members also blame him for the country's political
crisis, especially through his criticism of Tariceanu and his
threats to call legislative elections.


Basescu, in power since 2004, has been in a long-running feud
with the prime minister who sacked ministers from the president's
Democrat party in a government reshuffle several weeks ago.


But the conflict seems to have escalated since Romania joined the
European Union on January 1.


The political crisis has not improved the country's image abroad,
with European observers maintaining it is hampering the country's
work to reach European standards.


EU experts are set to visit next week to assess the country's
progress in implementing reforms, especially in the judicial
area.


Basescu is the first Romanian president to be suspended since the
fall of communism in 1989. In 1994, Ion Iliescu avoided
suspension following accusations that he had involved himself in
judicial matters.


The Social Democrat head of the senate, Nicolar Vacaroiu, will
take over presidential duties until a referendum is held. In the
event Basescu resigns, Vacaroiu would fulfill his functions until
presidential elections are held in three months' time.

