

A disturbed loner sought vindication and glory in making a multi-
media manifesto before gunning down more than 30 people at
Virginia Tech University, experts said, as criticism grew
Thursday about the network's decision to broadcast his tirade.


The rambling, angry rants Cho Seung-Hui made on a series of
videos gave a chilling glimpse into the disturbed psyche of a man
riddled with narcissism, self-aggrandizement and nihilism.


"This man was delusional, quite paranoid. I don't know if he was
hearing voices but I wouldn't be surprised," said Steve Hinshaw,
chair of the psychology department at the University of
California Berkeley.


The move to broadcast Cho's disturbing rant met with condemnation
from experts who said they feared the publicity might encourage
copy-cat assaults by troubled individuals willing to kill and die
for the same kind of national attention.


"The unfortunate thing is, he was seeking publicity and he got
it," said Mardi Horowitz, a professor of psychiatry at the
University of California San Francisco.


"There's a danger of all kinds of copy-cat people looking for
media glory."


NBC said the decision to air the video and photos presented an
ethical dilemma and warned viewers that it was disturbing
material, but that acknowledgment did not satisfy police, who
criticized the move to broadcast Cho's words.


"We're rather disappointed in the editorial decision to broadcast
these disturbing images," Virginia police superintendent Steve
Flaherty told a news conference on Thursday.


Former FBI profiler Clint Van Zandt, who is now an NBC analyst,
said he also disagreed with the network's decision.


"This is what this guy wants," Van Zandt said. "He wants to be
able to reach his hand out of the grave and grab us by the throat
and make us listen to him one more time.


"There's part of me that still doesn't like it that we're going
to live this guy's fantasy out for him, even though he's been
dead for two days," he said.


While it is impossible to accurately diagnose Cho from the brief
set of video clips, Hinshaw said his actions and words showed Cho
could have been suffering from a severe case of grandiosity, and
possibly bipolar disorder or schizophrenia as well.


"He made a statement ... in a self-destructive but self-promoting
blaze of glory," Hinshaw said in a telephone interview.


"It's chilling to think in these ways, but sometimes mental
illness can take hold of a person such that any empathy for
others takes second place to a compulsive need to let the world
know how much one has suffered."


Cho raged against hedonism and "rich kids" in his carefully
prepared package of 27 video files, an 1,800-word written
manifesto and 43 photographs. But the bulk of his anger was
directed at an unidentified "you" whom he blamed for forcing his
hand.


"You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided
today," Cho said in one of the videos.


"But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner
and gave me only one option," he said.


The statement seemed an attempt to show that Cho's life wasn't
worthless, so long as people could see what he suffered, Hinshaw
explained.


"We find this sometimes in serious mental illnesses where it's
nihilism and narcissism: my life isn't really worth much but I
will go to all ends to let people know how much I've suffered in
a very self-promoting way," Hinshaw said.


This form of mental illness is extremely rare and most people
with mental illness are not violent, he added.


Horowitz acknowledged that the media has a responsibility to
report the full story, but said it's important that the story be
told in a way that other disturbed individuals do not feel it
this is a good way to get attention.


The idea that violence is a bad way to resolve problems can get
through to even "highly disturbed, irrational individuals" and
perhaps prevent violent responses.


"The important thing is not letting these vile acts contribute to
the cycle of revenge," Horowitz told AFP. "That's the disease
we're trying to cure."

