

New Zealand's Jacob Oram will miss Friday's World Cup Super
Eights match against champions Australia after suffering a
recurrence of a heel injury, Black Caps coach John Bracewell said
on Thursday.


However, Bracewell insisted the giant pace-bowling all-rounder
would be fit for Tuesday's semi-final in Jamaica where New
Zealand are set to face Sri Lanka.


"We will be going in with our strongest side for this particular
game except Jacob Oram who won't be available because of a
problem with his heel," Bracewell said.


Asked if Oram would be fit for the semi-final, former New Zealand
off-spinner Bracewell replied: "Yes. That's one of the reasons
why he's not playing. It's a precautionary thing.


"He had it (the injury) for a period of time during the home
series. The diagnosis is that the initial impact is the worse
case scenario, but he's been able to nurse it through. All of a
sudden it's got a little bit more serious, so we've just got to
take it easy.


"It's starting to get better with rest already so that's a good
indication for us."


Australia are also already through to the semi-finals, meaning
Friday's match is not a decisive one for either side.


Bracewell said he'd no qualms about pitching the 28-year-old Oram
into a crunch match, saying his situation was similar to that of
Sri Lanka fast bowler Lasith Malinga, who has been out of action
with an ankle injury but is expected to return for the semi-
finals.


"It's no more of a concern than Sri Lanka with Malinga. We talked
with Jacob about the possibility of playing him as a batter only
but we didn't want to weaken the balance of the side by going in
a bowler short.


"It gives us an ideal opportunity to feature probably all of our
bowlers going into the semi-final."


Oram has scored 162 runs at an average of 40.50 at this World Cup
and taken nine wickets at 21.33 apiece.


Pace bowlers Michael Mason and Mark Gillespie could now both
feature on Friday, with off-spinner Jeetan Patel omitted, as New
Zealand prepare for the expected bouncier pitch at Jamaica's
Sabina Park.


New Zealand, who've never won the World Cup, would have to beat
Australia by a huge margin to overtake the double-defending
champions on run-rate at the top of the standings.


"Mathematically, it's a possibility but the amount would prevent
that so we're focusing on beating Australia and hopefully ending
up second," Bracewell said. "One of the reasons for ending up
second is we get the preferential treatment in terms of the early
(Monday) morning practice."


Bracewell's side head into Friday's game looking for a fourth
straight one-day win over Australia following a 3-0 success in
February's Chappell-Hadlee Trophy series in New Zealand, where
the Black Caps achieved two of the three highest totals batting
second to win a one-day international.


"It's an important game because it's playing against the number
one ranked side in the world. It's also our neighbours, a
traditional rival and it's something we always look forward to,
the trans-Tasman battle," Bracewell said.


"We also know the seriousness with which Australia take their
cricket and their revenge mentality."


Sri Lanka, already through to the semi-finals, caused controversy
when they omitted star bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah
Muralitharan against Australia during a seven-wicket defeat here
Monday.


But Bracewell said he had no thoughts of resting New Zealand
spearhead quick Shane Bond.


"The Australians have seen Shane over the last six months.
They'll have enough data on him, enough information on him. He
doesn't bowl anything that's unusual or they are not ready to
take on, it's whether they can deal with it." Australia, bidding
for an unprecedented third straight World Cup title, are set to
play South Africa in the second semi-final in St Lucia on
Wednesday.


The World Cup final is on Saturday, April 28 in Barbados.

