

Nokia strengthened its position as the world's leading maker of
mobile phones in the first quarter by upping its market share to
36 percent, though net profit slid seven percent, the group said
on Thursday.


Net profit dipped to 979 million euros (1.33 billion dollars)
from 1.0 billion euros a year earlier, weighed down by one-off
costs and falling prices for its mobile phones.


Earnings per share remained however stable from a year ago, at
0.25 euros and in line with market expectations.


The price of the Nokia share rose by 3.76 percent at 18.22 euros
on the Helsinki stock exchange after the earnings report was
presented, in a market up by 0.6 percent.


The company said it registered one-off items of 70 million euros
linked to restructuring of its administrative services and
research and development divisions.


Excluding those charges, net profit per share came to 0.26 euros.


Nokia said its mobile phone prices continued to plunge amid
fierce competition in emerging markets, in particular in Asia
where its high-end phones are selling poorly.


The average selling price for a Nokia mobile phone fell by 13
percent from a year ago, to 89 euros from 103 euros. While in
sharp decline, the figure was higher than the 88.5 euros expected
by analysts.


As a result of the lower prices, sales in the mobile phones
division dropped by five percent, in terms of value, in the first
quarter to 5.5 billion euros.


However, Nokia continued to sell more phones during the quarter
than any other manufacturer.


The Finnish company sold 91.1 million phones during the quarter,
a rise of 21 percent from a year earlier, out of a total of 253
million phones sold worldwide from January to March.


That boosted its market share from 35 to 36 percent.


Nokia's overall sales rose from 9.5 to 9.8 billion euros during
the period, up four percent from a year ago, but slightly below
the 10.1 billion euros forecast by analysts.


Operating profits slid by seven percent to 1.2 billion euros,
while pre-tax profit fell by eight percent to 1.3 billion, in
line with expectations.


Nokia chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo said he was
"encouraged" by the first quarter results.


"Our profitability was strong, with both gross and operating
margins up sequentially, excluding special items. We also saw
good year on year device volume growth that led to an increase in
our market share, further solidifying our number one position in
the industry," he said.

