

Bollywood's hottest stars Aishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan
were set to enjoy the second day of their wedding marathon
Thursday, as fans clustered for a glimpse of the tightly-guarded
festivities.


On the second of the three-day celebrations, a traditional henna
ceremony -- in which the bride's hands are painted -- was due to
be held late Thursday at Rai's house in Mumbai, India's
entertainment capital.


The marriage itself is set to take place marry on Friday in a
traditional Hindu ceremony.


Crowds of fans strained for a glimpse of the stars outside the
two seaside residences of the Bachchans, as well as outside Rai's
home.


"I've been waiting for two days (to see the pair)," said 26-year-
old fan Ramakant Shukla, a waiter who travelled from the eastern
Indian city of Patna to Mumbai's entertainment capital for the
celebrations.


Rai, 33, is a former Miss World. Bachchan is the 32-year-old son
of screen legend Amitabh Bachchan.


Unlike usual Indian weddings where the guest list can run into
thousands of people, the Hindu ceremony late on Friday will be
restricted to close friends and family out of deference to
Bachchan's grandmother, who is ill in hospital and reported to be
very keen to see her grandson wed.


The ceremonies kicked off on Wednesday with elaborately
choreographed song-and- dance routines at the Bachchan residence
and bride-to-be Rai was reported to have returned home in the
early morning hours.


Only 100 guests have been invited to the wedding, and more than
500 police are expected to be on hand to keep out gatecrashers,
according to media reports.


The local post office reported that fan letters and gifts were
flooding in for the couple from across the country, and even from
as far away as London and New York.


"It has been a tough day today and the mail is pouring in," said
postman S. Shinde. "We expect more."


The three-day wedding ends with a traditional parting of the
bride from her parents.


The pair have starred together in at least five movies and are
seen as a dynamite box office duo.


Bollywood movies have a huge following around the world,
especially in nations with a large Indian diaspora such as
Britain, Malaysia, Singapore and South Africa.


The couple known here as "Abhiash" -- India's answer to Brad Pitt
and Angelina Jolie's "Brangelina" -- were engaged in January.


Huge efforts have been made to keep the festivities private and
to exclude the media.


The Bachchans have asked owners of neighbouring buildings not to
allow photographers crews to shoot pictures from roofs while the
gates of Bachchan's residence are now mirrored so fans trying to
peer inside would see only their refection -- in line with an
Indian custom to ward off the evil eye.

