

Africa's last absolute monarch, Swaziland's King Mswati III,
expessed concern Thursday about the growing drought in his
landlocked kingdom as he celebrated his 39th birthday in style.


Rights groups have criticised the king for lavishing millions of
dollars on the festivities, held this year in eastern Swaziland,
at a time when farmers are reeling from poor harvests and food
rationing has been introduced.


But the king said that national celebrations were good for morale
and enabled the country to come together as one.


"I am very touched by the ongoing drought. I do hope food relief
will come urgently so that our people can get food," he told a
crowd of around 10,000 people who had gathered at a makeshift
stadium in the town of Siteki.


Poor rains at the start of the year, followed by freak hail
storms in the last few weeks, have led to a failure for this
year's maize crops, the staple of the southern African nation
which neighbours South Africa and Mozambique.


The Council of Swaziland Churches said it was inappropriate for
the authorities to stage such a celebration, the cost of which
has been put between 20 and 50 million emalangeni (2.1 million to
5.7 million euros, 2.8 million to 7.8 million dollars), at a time
when there was widespread food rationing.


"It is immoral for government to spend millions of emalangeni on
a one-day celebration while close to 300,000 Swazis are living on
food rations from the donor community. The government's spending
pattern does not espouse the needs of the people," the council's
director Khangezile Dlamini said in a statement.


Walter Bennett, one of the country's leading businessmen, said in
an interview on state-run Radio Swaziland that a public inquiry
should be launched into the cost of celebrations which involved
the building of the makeshift stadium.


Seventy percent of Swaziland's 1.1 million citizens live on less
than a dollar a day and the English-educated king -- who has 13
wives -- has frequently been criticised for his lavish lifestyle.

