

Award winning film director Milos Forman is realising a dream by
staging a jazz opera on the prestigious stage of Prague's
National Theatre in his Czech homeland.


"When I finish rehearsals, I leave the building, I see Prague
Castle and am moved to tears," said the 75-year-old in a perfect
Prague accent.


For years, Forman was exiled from his homeland, first in France
and then in the US, after Soviet tanks rolled into the former
Czechoslovakia in 1968.


On Sunday, the now US citizen will present the premier of "Well
Paid Walk," a 1960's musical composed by Jiri Slitr with words by
Jiri Suchy. The duo founded Prague's small non-conformist Semafor
theatre, which was famous at the time for testing the limits of
communist censorship.


"The Semafor is perhaps the most emotional memory of my life. At
a time when Czech culture was limited to the 'socialist realist'
rubbish imported from Moscow, the Semafor was a caress for the
soul," said Forman.


It is a new departure for the creative force behind films such as
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Amadeus", both of which
won him best director Oscars.


For his new opera, Forman has taken some songs from another
Semafor creation "Sect," which during his exile was "the only
thing for which I was nostalgic."


Forman was born in 1932 in the central Czech town of Caslav. His
parents perished in a Nazi concentration camp during World War
II.


He went to secondary school with Vaclav Havel, the future
playwright, dissident and the first post-communist president of
Czechoslovakia.


Forman went on to study at one of Prague's prestigious film
schools, shooting three classics of Czechoslovakia's 1960s new
wave of cinema, "Black Peter," "Loves of a blonde," and "The
Firemans' Ball".


He went into exile after the 1968 Soviet crackdown in
Czechoslovakia.


Forman's debut at the prestigious National Theatre represents a
new challenge for the film director, who picked up a string of
awards during his Hollywood career.


"As regards opera, I am a complete beginner," he said, although
several opera scenes are included in his cult film about the life
of Mozart, "Amadeus."


"In the cinema, I prepare a shooting plan, which I give to the
cameraman and can go and lie down. Here, you have to remain
concentrated for 10 hours and sometimes more.


"When I complete a shooting plan, it is done. But here? You know
it is okay but then the next day someone forgets this, another
makes a mess of that, and you have to start from scratch.
Sometimes it is hard on the nerves," he complained with a slight
smile.


His biggest pleasure in Prague is cooperating with his 43-year
old twin sons, Petr and Matej, one with the production and the
other on scenography.


"This is one of the best periods in my professional life," he
said.


Forman's biggest regret is that the poetic character of "Well
Paid Walk" will escape most foreign opera-goers in spite of the
English subtitles.


"There are a lot of things which you can not translate. That is
why we have tried to develop the visual aspect alongside the
words and music," he explained.


His team has also had to resolve the tough challenge of
transferring a play initially designed for the small Semafor to
the vast stage of the National Theatre. "The action took place in
a bathroom, but now there is a whole flat on the stage,"
commented Jiri Suchy with a laugh.


Another major hurdle was the fact that all the opera's music had
to be reconstituted from one single piano score after the
original score was lost in the floods which inundated Prague in
August 2002.


Forman has recruited Libor Pesek, the former musical director of
the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra, as the head of the
symphony orchestra. Also on board is former Semafor actress,
Jitka Molavcova, to fill key roles in the production.


With a childrens' choir as well, "this is a Broadway production,"
Forman joked.

