

London Mayor Ken Livingstone's hopes of winning a third term were
bolstered Thursday after opposition parties failed to agree to
back a popular former BBC chief for the top City Hall job.


Ex-BBC director general Greg Dyke had been seen as a credible
potential opponent to Livingstone in the poll race. But he said
he would not stand after the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
disagreed over his candidacy.


Livingstone, known as Red Ken because of his radical politics in
the 1980s, has won plaudits at home and abroad for his
leadership, in particular for a successful pollution-fighting
congestion charge scheme in the British capital.


"Greg Dyke could easily have had a lifetime career as a left-wing
politician. He would have been a very good Mayor," the London
mayor told LBC radio.


Livingstone is up for re-election in polls in September, and
opposition parties have struggled to come up with any heavyweight
candidates to take him on.


Dyke was forced to step down in 2004 as director general of the
national broadcaster after a showdown with the government over
reporting on the Iraq conflict. For years a high-profile Labour
supporter, he switched to the Lib Dems after he was ousted.


The charismatic former BBC head said he would have been ready to
stand against Livingstone.


He held several meetings with opposition Conservative leader
David Cameron to look at the possibility of gaining the joint
backing of the Tories and the Liberal Democrats. But on Wednesday
the Lib Dems refused any such deal.


"The only way I'd win was to get an agreement between political
parties, and there wasn't one to be had," said Dyke.


"I always thought it was a long shot and I just decided that I am
not going to do it."


Livingstone became mayor in 2000, running as an independent amid
hostility to his candidacy from Prime Minister Tony Blair, who
said he would be a "disaster" in the job.


But after a largely well-received first term in office, he was
welcomed back into the fold as the official Labour candidate at
the 2004 poll.

