

Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas said Thursday his intelligence
officials had information that BBC journalist Alan Johnston,
kidnapped more than a month ago in Gaza, was "still alive."


"I believe he is still alive. Our intelligence services have
confirmed to me that he is alive," Abbas told reporters during a
visit to Stockholm, saying he had received the information "in
the last three days."


Abbas said he wanted to secure Johnston's release.


"I want him to be released unharmed and safe without
psychological or physical harm," he stressed.


Johnston, 44, was snatched at gunpoint from his car as he drove
home from work in Gaza City on March 12 and has become the
longest-held Westerner in the increasingly lawless territory.


Last Sunday, an Islamist group claimed it had killed Johnston,
one of the few Western reporters to have both lived and worked in
the territory.


The Palestinian government has said that so far there was no
proof of the death claim by the little-known group, Kataeb al-
Jihad al-Tawheed (The Brigades of Holy War and Unity).


Abbas said Palestinian officials knew of the group but had had no
contact with them.


"We know those people and we want Johnston safe ... The less we
say about it, (the better) it will be for our benefit and for
Alan Johnston's benefit," he said.


"This does not mean that we have any contact with the abductors.
What I am saying is based on our intelligence-gathering
services," he said.


No Westerner has so far been killed after being abducted in Gaza,
where hostages are generally used to lever concessions from the
authorities and are usually released unharmed within days of
their kidnapping.


Johnston's ordeal has sparked international protests, with
solidarity demonstrations held in Brussels, Lebanon and
throughout Britain.


Thousands of people around the world have signed an online
petition calling for his release, with hundreds also posting
messages of support on the BBC News website.


Johnston has been with the BBC for 16 years and has also reported
from Uzbekistan and Afghanistan.


Abbas was in Stockholm on Thursday as part of a European tour
aimed at convincing EU countries to lift a year-long suspension
of direct aid to the Hamas-led government.

