

Poland's ex-parliamentary speaker Marek Jurek, until last week a
key member of the ruling conservative Law and Justice party,
announced Thursday he is setting up a new political grouping.


"We want to be a pro-life party that backs family values," Jurek
told reporters.


Jurek, 46, quit as speaker last week after lawmakers failed to
push through amendments to the constitution that would have
toughened Poland's abortion laws, already among the strictest in
Europe.


On Saturday, Jurek announced he was leaving Law and Justice
(PiS), after locking horns with Prime Minister Jaroslaw
Kaczynski, who founded PiS with his twin brother, President Lech
Kaczynski.


Jurek, who had piloted moves to strengthen the anti-abortion
rules, accused the prime minister of undermining any chances of
getting the abortion debate back on parliament's agenda in the
near future.


Jurek has long been close to the Kaczynskis, who are both
professed Catholic conservatives, and was a key player on the
right wing of PiS.


The split is a blow for the twins, who have received solid
support within PiS since coming to power in the autumn of 2005.


However, Jurek said his new party was prepared to keep supporting
the Kaczynski government, a coalition comprised of PiS, the far-
right League of Polish Families (LPR), and the populist party
Samoobrona (Self-Defence).


"We will cooperate with PiS. It is our natural partner. But we
kept finding obstacles to achieving our goals, so we want to act
independently," he said.


Four other PiS lawmakers appeared alongside Jurek at a press
conference, saying they had decided to join his as-yet-unnamed
party.


"Many members of parliament have shown an interest in our move,"
Jurek said, although he declined to say how many more rebels
might follow him.


Jurek will need a total of 15 lawmakers if he wants to create a
formal parliamentary party.


Prior to the breakaway, PiS had 153 seats in Poland's 460-member
lower house -- making it the largest party ahead of the liberal
opposition Civic Platform (PO), which has 131.

