

Iran has formally denied any knowledge of a former FBI agent who
US officials say disappeared during a trip to the country last
month, fueling speculation he may be secretly detained in the
Islamic Republic.


State Department officials responded skeptically to a brief
official note received from Tehran on Wednesday via Swiss
intermediaries saying Iranian authorities had no information
concerning retired FBI agent Robert Levinson.


US authorities say they have confirmed that Levinson flew to the
Iranian Gulf resort of Kish island in early March and that there
was no evidence he has left the country.


"I think it strains credibility that they don't have any
information on his whereabouts," a senior US official said
Thursday of Iran's reply to multiple US requests for help in
locating Levinson.


"We are skeptical," the official said.


The State Department said it had asked two unnamed European
governments to approach Iran about the matter.


The US has not had diplomatic ties with Iran since 1980.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said that while US
authorities get inquiries about two or three US nationals
reported missing in Iran each year, Levinson is the first not to
have been quickly found.


"It's unique in recent memory, in that thus far we have not been
able to locate Mr. Levinson," he said.


McCormack declined comment on speculation Levinson might be held
as a hostage for possible exchange for five Iranian officials
held by US troops in Iraq or for a former Iranian general who
disappeared recently in Turkey amid reports he may have defected
to the West.


"I can't say anything other than it's speculation," he said.


"We don't know his whereabouts, and that's the reason why we're
asking all of these questions," he said.


Iran has strongly protested the arrest of the five Iranians, who
were captured by US forces during a raid in northern Iraq in
January on suspicion of aiding anti-US insurgents.


Iran has also suggested Western spy agencies kidnapped a former
Iranian general, Ali Reza Asghari, who disappeared in February
during a trip to Istanbul. Several Western media reports said
Asghari defected.


Levinson retired from the FBI in the late 1990s and was working
as a private consultant and reportedly travelled to Kish, a
resort and duty-free zone, to research a documentary film.


His disappearance came at a time of high tension between Iran and
the United States, including over Tehran's alleged support for
anti-US forces in Iraq and its suspected nuclear weapons program.

