

The last surviving commander of the 1943 Warsaw ghetto uprising,
Marek Edelman, on Thursday paid homage to those who died fighting
the Nazis in the ill-fated Jewish revolt.


Edelman and other members of Poland's Jewish community laid a
wreath at the imposing monument in the heart of the former
ghetto, in a ceremony marking the 64th anniversary of the three-
week uprising.


On April 19, 1943 a few hundred young Jews decided to take up
arms against the occupying Germans, resolving to fight rather
than face near-certain death in the Nazis' "Final Solution".


"We knew perfectly well that we had no chance of winning. Some
220 poorly-armed lads were facing a powerful army," Edelman told
AFP in an interview.


Edelman's underground Jewish resistance group had managed to
scrape together a minuscule arsenal in the months before the
revolt.


"All we had was a machine gun, some pistols, grenades, petrol
bombs and two mines, one of which didn't explode," Edelman said,
his face lighting up with a smile.


The Warsaw ghetto, set up in 1940 by Poland's Nazi occupiers to
isolate the thriving Jewish community in the capital, originally
contained over 450,000 people.


About 100,000 died inside from hunger and disease, and over
300,000 were sent to Nazi death camps, mainly at Treblinka in
eastern Poland.


When the 20-something Edelman and his comrades decided to launch
their revolt, the remaining population was down to the tens of
thousands.


"We knew we were going to die. Just like all the others who were
sent to Treblinka. But it was easier to die fighting than in a
gas chamber.


"Their death was far more heroic. We didn't know when we would
take a bullet. They had to deal with certain death, stripped
naked in a gas chamber or standing at the edge of a mass grave
waiting for a bullet in the back of the head."


Edelman led a group of around 50 fighters.


"The Germans weren't expecting resistance of any kind, let alone
that we would take up arms," he said.


"But we managed to hold out for three weeks, thanks largely to
the support of ordinary people, who were on our side and hid us.
An urban guerrilla war, whether in Warsaw in 1943 or in today's
Iraq, is the most difficult kind to deal with."


The 24-year-old commander of the uprising, Mordechai Anielewicz,
committed suicide on May 8, as Nazi forces closed in.


Edelman took his place.


The Germans, unable to snuff out the revolt as fast as they had
expected, decided to burn down the ghetto.


"We were beaten by the flames, not the Germans," said Edelman.


Edelman escaped through the sewers on May 10 with a handful of
comrades.


He joined the wider Polish resistance movement, which launched
its own uprising in Warsaw on August 1, 1944.


That 63-day revolt and the Germans' brutal response cost the
lives of 200,000 civilians and fighters, and led to the near-
total destruction of Warsaw by Nazi troops.

