

Police on Thursday lamented that a university killer's hate-
filled video manifesto was aired by US media, allowing his
disturbing self-portraits to be seen around the world.


"We appreciate NBC's cooperation ... though we're rather
disappointed in the editorial decision to broadcast these
disturbing images," Virginia police superintendent Steve Flaherty
told a news conference.


The campus killer's hate-filled manifesto arrived at NBC News on
Wednesday via express mail in a package of photographs, videos
and writings that were mailed on Monday, the day of the shooting,
network officials and police said.


The carefully prepared package contained 27 video files, totaling
10 minutes, 43 photographs and an 1,800 word document penned by
Cho Seung-Hui, the Virginia Tech student who killed 32 people and
himself in a bloody shooting spree.


After first informing the police about package, NBC later aired
it ensuring Cho's disturbing diatribe was immediately shown on
evening news broadcasts across the country, and then picked up by
news media around the world.


"I'm sorry that you all were exposed to these images," Flaherty
told reporters here.


In the videos, Cho rants against rich students and blames society
for the bloodshed.


"You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided
today," Cho said in one of video files which were accompanied by
still shots of him wielding pistols, knives, even a hammer.


"But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner
and gave me only one option. The decision was yours. Now you have
blood on your hands that will never wash off."


Flaherty said that despite sifting through the package, which he
said was probably prepared before Monday's rampage, it contained
very little that could help police in their investigation.


"We had hoped that the correspondence that we received from NBC
would contain some vital evidence and be of very significant
value," he said.


"While there was some marginal value to the package we received,
the fact of the matter is we already had most all of this
information.


"The package simply confirmed what we already knew in many, many
cases."

