

US university officials faced a barrage of questions on Thursday
over how a profoundly disturbed student could remain on campus
and plot a horrific massacre.


Virginia Tech University vice president Ed Spencer cautioned,
however, against trying to affix blame following Monday's killing
by South Korean student Cho Seung-Hi of 32 students and teachers.


"I think about the seductive temptation to blame and I hope that
none of us get into that," Spencer told a press conference here
on the latest in the probe into the deadliest school shooting in
US history.


Police superintendent Colonel Steve Flaherty told reporters
meanwhile that a hate-filled manifesto sent by Cho to NBC News
had been of only "marginal value" to the investigation.


"We had hoped that the correspondence that we received from NBC
would contain some vital evidence and be of very significant
value," he said.


"While there was some marginal value to the package we received,
the fact of the matter is we already had most all of this
information," he said. "The package simply confirmed what we
already knew in many, many cases."


Flaherty said he could not confirm that Cho personally mailed the
package to NBC on Monday saying it was busy in the post office
that morning as it was the deadline for Americans to file their
income taxes.


The package was postmarked 9:01 am, one hour and 45 minutes after
the first two victims were killed in a campus dormitory and about
30 to 40 minutes before the second attack during which 30 people
died and Cho committed suicide.


"You have blood on your hands," the black-clad South Korean
gunman ranted in one of several videos in which he painted
himself as a long-suffering martyr and compared himself to Jesus
Christ.


Flaherty thanked NBC for its cooperation with the authorities but
lamented that the network chose to air excerpts from the
manifesto, which contained 27 video files totaling 10 minutes, 43
photographs and an 1,800-word document.


"We're rather disappointed in the editorial decision to broadcast
these disturbing images," he said. "I'm sorry that you all were
exposed to these images."


Virginia Tech vice president Spencer and other university
officials were bombarded with questions at the press conference
over how a student with a history of mental problems could remain
in school and what was done to treat him.


The 23-year-old Cho, an English major in his final year of
undergraduate studies, has been described as a sullen loner by
students, teachers and his roommates and his violent writings and
intimidating manner raised alarm bells among some of his
professors long before the attacks.


Cho was committed to a mental institution in December 2005 after
one of two stalking incidents involving female students but was
released the next day for outpatient treatment after he was
deemed not to be a danger to others.


Dr. Chris Flynn of the Cook Counseling Center stressed that the
decision to commit Cho to a mental health facility was taken by a
Virginia district court and there are strict privacy rules about
what information can be shared.


"It depends on what the client will agree to," he said. "This is
not a law enforcement issue. He broke no law that we know of.


"The mental health professionals were there to assess his safety.
There is no necessity perhaps that they would notify everybody --
whether it be the police or the university," Flynn said.


"Clearly every person who leaves a psychiatric facility needs
extended care and follow-up," he added. "Who gets notified under
that court order and who is notified is determined by (health
privacy) regulations and not the university.


"The university is not part of the mental health system for the
judiciary system and we would not be the providers of mandatory
counseling in this instance," he said.


Spencer noted that Cho's roommates did not bring him to the
attention of the authorities as a potential danger.


"This individual, who lived with five of our wonderful students
all of this academic year -- one of whom lives in the room with
him as his roommate -- and none of them expressed any concern to
us of any violence, danger or whatever," he said.


"This morning as I'm reflecting about the past, present and
future, I know we followed all our policies correctly in the
past," he said. "We acted on information we had at the time, and
now we have much more information."


The massacre has also raised questions about the ease with which
Cho was able to legally purchase the two handguns he used to mow
down his fellow students and teachers.

