

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer was strangled less than a day
after his team were stunned by Ireland in the World Cup, and
police are treating his death as murder, officials said Thursday.


"The Jamaican police are now in possession of the official post-
mortem report from the government pathologist, who conducted the
autopsy on the late Mr. Woolmer," Karl Angell, director of
communications for Jamaican police, said at a news conference
late Thursday.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


"In these circumstances, the matter of Mr. Robert Woolmer's death
is now being treated by the Jamaica Police as a case of murder."


Woolmer, a former England Test batsman and South Africa coach,
was declared dead in hospital on Sunday after being found
unconscious in his room at the Jamaica Pegasus hotel. He was 58.


The day before, Pakistan was knocked out of the World Cup
following a shocking defeat by minnows Ireland.


"I don't want to talk about suspects at this stage," Deputy
Commissioner of Police Mark Shields said, but he indicated more
than one person might have been involved.


"It would take some force, because Bob was a large man, and
therefore it would have taken some significant force to subdue
him and cause strangulation, but we do not know at this stage how
many people were in the room," he said. "It could be one or more
people that were involve in this murder."


He also said the person or persons could have entered the room
before Woolmer as "the room was undisturbed and all his
belongings were intact."


Asked if it was not not a regulation of the International Cricket
Council that two police officers were placed on the floors of the
teams, Shields said: "They are a part of the murder
investigation, so I can't comment on that now."


Assistant Commissioner of Police Owen Ellington, chairman of the
local security committee, said security arrangements at Woolmer's
hotel would be probed.


While it was was disclosed that since Woolmer's death officials
have increased uniformed security personnel at the hotel,
Ellington said it would be inappropriate to reveal further
details of security arrangements.


Reading a release on behalf of Commissioner of Police Louis
Thomas, Agnell urged anyone with information on the case to come
forward.


"It is our belief that those who are associated with or having
access to Mr. Woolmer may have vital information that would have
assisted this enquiry," he said. "We appeal to those individuals
to come forward now and assist us with our investigation."


Shields said he didn't know when Woolmer's body would be flown to
his home in South Africa for burial.


"It depends on the coroner whether or not we can release the
body," said Shields, adding he would meet with the coroner on
Friday. "I think we should be able to do that, but ultimately
that is not my decision."


Shields said authorities are still awaiting the reports of the
histology and toxicology tests.


Thursday's official statements followed reports in two Jamaican
newspapers on the cause of Woolmer's death.


The Jamaica Gleaner quoted a "high-ranking police officer" as
saying authorities had suspected strangulation because "a bone in
the neck, near the glands, was broken, and this suggests that
somebody might have put some pressure on it."


Malcolm Speed, chief executive of the International Cricket
Council (ICC), said the entire cricket community was shocked by
the circumstances of Woolmer's death.


"When we first learnt of Bob's death a wave of sadness washed
over the whole of the cricket community," Speed said in a
statement. "That sadness has now been replaced with a profound
sense of shock at the news that his death is being treated as
murder, and everyone connected with this event will assist the
police in any way possible to ensure the truth emerges."


Pakistan's World Cup players gave statements to Jamaican police
and were also fingerprinted before leaving for the resort of
Montego Bay. They were to stay there for two days before
returning home after their early elimination from the tournament.


However, the Pakistan team were furious that they were being cast
in some sections of the media as prime suspects in the
investigation.


"The impression is being given that the Pakistan team are
suspects. This is not true," said team manager Talat Ali.


"It was a matter of ruling nothing out," Shields said. "The
Pakistan team is extremely helpful and cooperative."


He added that he saw no reason the team couldn't travel back to
Pakistan as scheduled.


"There is no reason why anyone would be detained or stopped from
leaving the country," he said.


Before police confirmed the cause of death, rumors swirled of
possible poisoning, and even killing at the hands of members of
the criminal underworld keen to avoid exposure in allegations of
match-fixing which may have arisen in a book that Woolmer was
planning to write.


Team spokesman Pervez Mir dismissed the suggestions the death was
linked to match-fixing as "totally baseless and premature".

