

British Airways said Thursday it wanted talks to start
immediately on liberalisation of the US aviation market after EU
transport ministers cleared plans to free up transatlantic routes
between Europe and the United States.


BA is annoyed that the "open skies" agreement between the EU and
United States forbids European airlines from flying between
American cities, while American carriers can fly between
destinations in the European Union.


But a clause in the deal means Britain could re-impose
restrictions on US airlines operating in Europe in 2010 if there
was no progress in a second round of negotiations aimed at
removing internal barriers in the United States.


"With the EU having given away their most valuable negotiating
asset -- Heathrow -- the UK government must stand by its pledge
to withdraw traffic rights if the US does not deliver further
liberalisation by 2010," said BA chief executive Willie Walsh.


"The EU is naive to believe the US will deliver on the next stage
of liberalisation without sanctions, so we are pleased the UK
government has recognised this and demanded an automatic
termination clause.


"Nothing short of an open aviation area by 2010 will be
acceptable and we want talks on the second stage to achieve this
to start immediately."


Those talks are planned to take place by January 2008.


"We will hold the government to its word to fight for Britain's
interests if America doesn't play ball," Walsh said in a
statement.


"Though this is a poor agreement for Britain and Europe, we are
ready to exploit the new opportunities this agreement gives us
for our customers and our business."


The deal means that British Airways and Virgin Atlantic will lose
the grip they have on flights to the United States from London
Heathrow, the world's busiest international airport.


The two airlines previously shared this route with US carriers
American Airlines and United Airlines.


Virgin Atlantic congratulated the British government on
negotiating concessions, noting that it was not a complete
liberalisation.


"Today's agreement starts to remove the shackles of regulation
which tie up the aviation industry worldwide. It's a good day for
the traveller as consumers should benefit from fully open skies
between the EU and US by 2010," it said in a statement.


"Virgin Atlantic is actively looking at expanding in Europe,
offering flights from key European hubs such as Paris, Frankfurt,
Amsterdam, and Madrid to New York. Such a move would create 500
jobs and operations would begin within two years."


British carrier bmi, which has the second-biggest number of
Heathrow slots behind BA, welcomed the deal. The airline plans to
announce its first flights to the United States soon.


"The stranglehold has finally been broken," said chief executive
Nigel Turner.


"Today is a landmark in the history of air links between Europe
and the US and the agreement will be a a prelude to global
liberalisation of air transport."


Simon Evans, chief executive of the Air Transport Users Council,
reckoned bmi might rejig its Heathrow slots to concentrate on
transatlantic routes.


"What's gained on the swings could be lost on the roundabouts,"
he said.


Evans called the agreement good news for passengers and the
airline industry in the long term.


"But I don't think we're going to see a tremendous drop in the
price of transatlantic air tickets," he added.

