

The US Treasury is sending an official to Beijing to resolve a
delay in unblocking North Korean funds that led to disruption of
talks aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program, the
State Department said Thursday.


Daniel Glaser, the Treasury's deputy assistant secretary, will
leave for the Chinese capital "relatively soon," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack told reporters a day after six-party
nuclear talks ended abruptly in Beijing.


McCormack said Glaser would "work with the Chinese on the
technical details" of returning 25 million dollars' worth of
North Korean assets that had been frozen in a Macau bank since
2005.


The United States had said it had struck a deal to release all
the North Korean assets frozen in Banco Delta Asia but the money
was not sent to a North Korean account at the Bank of China in
Beijing as reportedly agreed upon.


Pyongyang's envoy refused to engage in further talks until the
money was transferred, and returned home Thursday.


But six-party talks host China and the chief US envoy to the
meeting insisted that the Stalinist regime would abide by an
agreement to shut down its key Yongbyon nuclear reactor by mid-
April.


The United States, China, Russia, the two Koreas and Japan remain
committed to implementing a February 13 accord under which North
Korea would shut the reactor within 60 days of that agreement in
return for 50,000 tonnes of fuel aid, Beijing has said in a
statement.


Chief US envoy Christopher Hill also said he expected North Korea
to close Yongybyon within the 60-day timeframe.


Hill said the money transfer should not have been a reason to
hold up the talks. "This was a procedural, form-filling issue,"
he said.


The White House on Thursday blamed a "technical issue" for the
delay in unblocking the North Korean funds and said Pyongyang
must "live up to" denuclearization pledges.


"We expect them to live up to their commitments but, at this
point, this is not an issue of American unwillingness. It's a
technical issue in terms of fund transferring," said White House
spokesman Tony Snow.


"We in fact have completed the actions necessary to resolve the
Banco Delta issue and we hope that the mechanics of transferring
the funds out of that bank are not going to slow the six-party
talks," said Snow.


"In other words, we've done our part. So at this point it's a
technical issue," said the spokesman, who did not spell out what
the problem was.


"North Korea also retains an obligation to allow the IAEA
inspectors and that is part of the deal, I have mentioned this
many times, and to close down (the Yongbyon site) within the next
30 days," said Snow.


McCormack said the six-party talks would likely meet again "in
the next week or two as we get closer to the 60-days clock."


"All the parties are optimistic about the process and being able
to meet the 60-days clock," he said.

