

Diehard gamers around the world, some of whom had queued for
nearly two days, finally got their hands on brand spanking new
Sony Playstation 3 games consoles after midnight launches in
Europe, the Middle East and Australasia.


Sony and other major retailers had talked up the long-delayed
launch, organising special late-night events for those who
couldn't wait until Friday morning to pick theirs up, though
there has been speculation the console's hefty price tag might
deter consumers.


In the basement of Virgin Megastore's flagship London outlet,
hardcore video game fans who waited in line for more than a day
for the midnight launch were rewarded by Sony, which gifted each
of the first 125 a new 42-inch Sony TV.


"It feels great, man, especially with the free TV on top," a
jubilant Atkah Armah, 28, told AFP from the store, after
collecting his PS3.


"We were sitting in the queue for about 50,000 hours, and all of
a sudden, some guy came out and said, 'There's a free TV', and
then he goes, 'and everyone in the queue's going to get one'.


"That was pretty amazing," Armah said, adding that he was going
straight home to start playing his copy of Ridge Racer.


Virgin Megastore said it had booked extra security and free taxis
to whisk gamers home and avoid them falling prey to muggers.


In France, a special boat was set to ferry 1,000 PS3s along the
Seine to the foot of the Eiffel Tower, where enthusiasts braved
the chilly Parisian night to get their hands on a console.


Meanwhile, in Berlin, a rock concert was to be held at the Sony
Centre, the company's European headquarters, to entertain fans
waiting to buy a console.


Stores in Australia and New Zealand were the first to open their
doors to eager gamers, and organisers had predicted that
thousands of gaming fans would turn out to snatch up the first of
the next-generation units that were given a glitzy launch at
Sydney's Myers Department Store.


In the end, just 65 excited gamers queued outside Myers
department store for around four hours, before being allowed
inside where they barely outnumbered staff and publicists.


Nevertheless, advertising sales executive Danny Zarka, 31, said
the midnight wait had been worth it.


"I was really thrilled to be the first one to get my hands on
this baby before anyone else," he told AFP as he clutched his new
PS3.


"It's going to be a sleepless night, but I haven't scheduled any
meeting for early tomorrow," he added before heading home.


The PS3 was originally scheduled for worldwide release in
November, but production problems meant it was only made
available in Japan and the United States, where there were punch-
ups and at least one shooting at frenzied launch events.


The PS3 does not come cheap, costing 599 euros (800 dollars) in
Europe and 425 pounds (836 dollars/626 euros) in Britain.


In the United States, Nintendo's cheaper Wii console outsold the
new Sony in February by more than two-to-one, according to the
NPD Group consultancy, while Microsoft's Xbox 360 also outsold
Sony's console there.


Some gaming fanatics were not buying into the hype, criticising
Sony's decision to sell only the top-of-the-line 60-gigabyte
version of the PS3 in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and
Australasia.


Chris Stead, former editor of Australian GamePro, said he would
not rush to buy the console, which retails for 1,000 dollars (808
US) in Australia, even though he was impressed with features such
as a Blu-ray DVD player.


Stead said the gaming community was concerned the PS3 lacked
"backward compatibility," meaning they could not use it to play
games purchased for the PS1 and PS2.

