

Australia begin their Asian Cup campaign in earnest on Saturday
with a big test against a Chinese side desperate to re-establish
itself as a credible threat.


The Socceroos, led by Middlesbrough striker Mark Viduka, are
playing their first major Asian side since toppling regional
powerhouses Japan at the World Cup last year and are focused on
preparing for the Asian Cup finals in July.


Saturday's match against a team that was runner-up to Japan at
the last finals in 2004 is the sort of opposition they are
seeking.


"I want to win every game and I put the expectation level on the
players as well," said coach Graham Arnold.


"Everyone is going to want to beat us and everyone's looking at
us.


"For me, it doesn't matter which personnel is on the field ...
we've come a long way in the last couple of years and we've got
to maintain that and I'll be stressing upon the players before
the game that a good result is required."


Both sides have been hit by injury with Australia without Harry
Kewell, Tim Cahill, Craig Moore, Vince Grella and Jason Culina.


China have lost the services of key defender Sun Xiang, who
injured a knee in PSV Eindhoven's match against Ajax last
weekend.


They are also without former skipper Li Weifeng, who has been
dropped as punishment for his poor disciplinary record after the
Shanghai Shenhua defender received six red cards in a span of 14
months.


For China, more is at stake than just beating Australia.


The Chinese have slipped to 75 in the world rankings and coach
Zhu Guanghu is not a popular man. He was attacked when leaving a
domestic league game last weekend and is desperate for a result
to get his side back on track.


Zhu has called up a strong team, relying on his European-based
stars to halt an Australian side brimming with talent.


Sun Jihai, who is finding life at Manchester City tough going, is
in the squad along with Manchester United striker Dong Fangzhuo.


But their spark should come from Zheng Zhi, who has made a
spectacular start to his English Premier League career with
Charlton, scoring his first goal last weekend.


With some senior players missing, Viduka said it was a good
opportunity for Australian youngsters like Pat Kisnorbo, Michael
Beauchamp and Jacob Burns to stake their claim to a place in the
side.


"The game against China will be tough. I was speaking to Sun
(Jihai) after we played Manchester City last weekend and he was
saying they'll be fielding the best team they possibly can,"
Viduka told the South China Morning Post.


"We've got a lot of players missing who would normally make the
starting line- up, but it's an opportunity for the young players
coming through to take their chance."


The Asian Cup finals are held in July, co-hosted by Indonesia,
Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia.


Australia are in a group alongside Iraq, Thailand and Oman while
China have a tough task after being drawn with Iran, Uzbekistan
and Malaysia.

