

The US infantrymen advanced slowly through the rubble-strewn
underground memorial, the flashlights under their rifles probing
the darkness until they came upon the body they were looking for.


The hunched corpse lay face down and bound in a pool of light at
the base of a stairway leading up to the outside world, amid the
wreckage of what had once been a tribute to the victims of a
previous conflict.


Then, a deafening blast rent the heavy air, the shockwave
smashing lumps of cement from the ceiling as the American patrol
and two AFP journalists ducked for cover, their ears ringing
painfully.


Outside, machine gun fire erupted, a harsh sound like ripping
metal.


"Move, move! Back to the trucks, back to the trucks!"


The men ran back the way they had come, past a concertina of
razor wire and over piles of broken brick until their squad, part
of the 2-12 Infantry's Gator Company, burst back into sunlight
and sprinted to their Humvees.


The situation became clear after a few moments of frantic radio
exchanges: insurgents had fired a rocket-propelled grenade at
troops protecting the search team as it descended under the Bilat
al-Shuhada Children's Memorial.


Soldiers found spent cartridges and an unused belt of machine gun
ammunition at the site of the ambush, but the attackers had
melted back into the dangerous streets of Dura, a Sunni suburb of
south Baghdad.


There was no sign of injury on either side in what was another
inconclusive encounter in the battle of wills and wile between
Iraq's shadowy insurgency and the US units rolling into Baghdad.


The site of the clash was already steeped in tragedy before Gator
Company was called out to investigate the body. On October 13,
1987 an Iranian rocket had slammed into a school and killed 38
Iraqi children.


Never one to miss a chance to turn his people's pain into
propaganda, Saddam Hussein ordered the construction of a
grandiose memorial to the "martyrs", with a bunker-style museum
under a plaza of harsh, modernist sculptures.


Today, the memorial is partially ruined and the basement
exhibition dark and full of debris. Saddam has fallen and the war
with Iran is long over, but fighting continues daily on the
streets of Dura.


The district was once a wealthy suburb housing Saddam's closest
supporters, and many of its streets are still pleasant-seeming
avenues of family homes with leafy gardens and cheerful kids
playing endless games of football.


Parts of it, however, have become lawless slums and the area's
resentful, mainly-Sunni population has ambiguous relations --
sometimes welcoming, sometimes hostile -- with US units battling
to maintain order.


Insurgent groups, including cells linked to Al-Qaeda, are strong
here, but locals also fear the Iraqi government's Shiite-led
National Police, which they accuse of random brutality and
sectarian violence.


By contrast, the Americans and their allies in the Iraqi Army,
still have a chance to win over the district, if they can
demonstrate an ability to provide security and protect the repair
of local services.


Last week Gator Company and an Iraqi Army unit took an important
step in this direction, opening an outpost in an abandoned
shopping arcade in Dura's once vibrant market area, once
notorious as an insurgent stronghold.


The move has been welcomed by the area's remaining traders. Since
US patrols began in September more than 100 abandoned stores have
reopened, and US soldiers can now walk the area on foot and even
do some shopping.


This week, Gator Company's Sergeant Major Doug Maddi, took AFP
journalists and a small detachment of his men on a tour of the
area, pausing to take tea with traders and to buy shower curtains
for his unit's new base.


The local welcome was cautious but positive, but it soon became
clear that gratitude to the Americans for helping get businesses
back onto their feet did not translate into support for the US-
backed government and its police.


As Sergeant Maddi chatted with traders, almost every one of them
complained about the Shiite-led national police, which locals
allege is infiltrated by Iranian agents and sectarian militants.


Later, a patrol led by Lieutenant Joe Higgins visited half a
dozen homes in a nearby neighbourhood. In each he tried to
persuade local families to call the Americans or Iraqi Army if
they spot insurgent gunmen and bombers.


In each he heard the same response -- the insurgents come from
outside the area, the real danger is the police.


"I know about you worries about the police," he replied wearily.
"We're working with them to make them better.


As Higgins' patrol took tea with a Dura family, one agitated
householder retorted: "When they stop shooting at us, then we
will trust you."


The US soldiers sympathise with this comment, but are frustrated
with the lack of cooperation. Several admitted privately to AFP
that the national police in Dura are trigger-happy and nakedly
sectarian in their outlook.


"We're not going to be here much longer, and pretty soon it's
just going to be the Iraqi people left with their own country,"
Higgins warned one family.


"My job is to make Dura as safe as I can before I leave, but I
can't do that unless good men like you stand up and take some
responsibility," he said, giving the number of a tip-off line to
a father cradling his infant daughter.


As the US convoy pulled away from the street, some people waved
cheerfully while others frowned and stared. Then, a call came
onto the radio about the dead body at the memorial, and the
battle started again.

