

The US and South Korean foreign ministers have reaffirmed their
commitment to an agreement on denuclearising North Korea despite
the abrupt suspension of the latest talks, the foreign ministry
said Friday.


The six-party talks went into recess in Beijing Thursday after
North Korea refused to take part until it receives 25 million
dollars in funds which had been frozen at Macau's Banco Delta
Asia.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon and US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice talked by phone Thursday night and
exchanged views on the negotiations, the ministry said in a
statement.


"The two shared the view that even though this meeting was
temporarily put off because of technical problems in transferring
North Korean money from Banco Delta Asia, the February 13
agreement should continue to be implemented, and they pledged
their continued cooperation to see progress after the initial
stage," it said.


In the initial stage the North should shut down its Yongbyon
reactor by April 14 and invite UN nuclear inspectors in exchange
for 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil.


In the next phase, for which no time limit has been set, it
should declare and disable all of its nuclear programmes in
exchange for 950,000 more tons of oil or equivalent aid, as well
as political and economic benefits.


The US in 2005 blacklisted Banco Delta Asia on suspicion it was
handling the proceeds of North Korean counterfeiting and money-
laundering, prompting Macau authorities to freeze the North
Korean accounts.


On Monday the US said it had cleared the way for the release of
the funds, which were to be transferred to a North Korean account
at the Bank of China. The transfer has been delayed due to what
have been termed technical problems.


Despite the recess, the ministry said Song and Rice were positive
about the outcome of the agreement so far, particularly the
progress of working groups discussing various aspects of the
accord.


They also discussed negotiations on a US-South Korean free trade
deal, agreeing to find a "win-win" conclusion and to be flexible
over sensitive issues, the ministry said.


The two sides will hold a ministerial-level meeting in Seoul
starting Monday in an attempt to reach a deal by the deadline at
the end of this month.

