

The private equity consortium behind an 8.9 billion US dollar
takeover bid for Australian airline Qantas said Friday it was
considering its options after a key shareholder rejected the
offer.


Airline Partners Australia (APA) needs at least 90 percent of
shareholders to accept its offer of 5.45 Australian dollars (4.39
US dollars) a share to take over the airline with its iconic
Flying Kangaroo logo.


But Balance Equity Management, which holds a 4.0 percent stake in
Qantas, said it did not intend to accept the offer due to the
strong conditions in the domestic share market.


"Airline Partners Australia is considering a range of
alternatives in light of the announcement," APA said.


The decision could derail the takeover, worth 11.1 billion
Australian dollars, following reports that another major
institutional investor, UBS Global Asset Management, has also
raised concerns over the offer price.


The UBS unit has a 6.0 percent holding in Qantas and has
reportedly been buying more shares on the open market.


There is added speculation that UBS, along with fellow
institutional investor Maple Brown Abbott which holds about 3.0
percent, could effectively kill the deal if they form a united
front.


Balanced Equity said equity markets had appreciated significantly
since the announcement of the APA bid in December 2006.


"Given the current level of the share market, in the absence of
an adverse development in relation to Qantas, or a fall in equity
markets, we do not intend to accept the bid of 5.45 dollars per
share in respect of the shares we manage on behalf of others,"
director Andrew Sisson said.


The APA consortium, which is led by Australia's largest
investment bank Macquarie Bank, has so far won acceptances for 29
percent of Qantas shares.


"The sooner APA reaches 90 percent and the offer becomes
unconditional, the sooner we will be able to pay shareholders,"
APA director and spokesman Bob Mansfield said.


"We encourage Qantas shareholders to accept the offer without
further delay."


APA announced Friday it will extend the closing date on the
offer, which it has previously said was final, from April 3 to
April 20.


The offer has been backed by the Qantas board and passed all
regulatory hurdles which stipulate that the company must be
majority Australian owned.


Should the consortium gain control of Qantas, the airline will be
owned 27 percent by Australia's Allco Equity Partners while
related Allco Finance Group Ltd will have 8.0 percent.


Macquarie will hold less than 15 percent while US private equity
firm Texas Pacific will have 25 percent, Canada's Onex Corp 12.5
percent and Qantas management 1.0 percent. Other unspecified
foreign investors will have a 11.5 percent stake.


Under the proposed ownership structure APA has some flexibility
to allow parties other than the consortium members to have an
investment in the airline.


CommSec analyst Cassandra Meagher said Balance Equity
Management's decision could lead the way for other investors to
follow.


"If they had accepted it, it may have encouraged more people to
accept," she told ABC radio.


"By saying actively that they're not accepting it, it may
encourage people not to accept."


Qantas shares dropped as much as 4.0 percent after the
announcement but steadied somewhat to close the day down 0.16
dollarsor 3.0 percent at 5.06 dollars.

