

Democratic presidential hopeful John Edwards has borne personal
tragedy before, but his latest heartache over the cancer haunting
his wife has drawn a dark cloud over his White House dreams.


Edwards announced Thursday that Elizabeth Edwards's breast cancer
had returned, spread to a rib, and was incurable, but vowed "the
campaign goes on" for the party's 2008 nomination.


The grim revelation threw another intangible into the party's
intriguing presidential field. It was also the latest twist in a
political crusade Edwards was inspired to launch after the tragic
death of his teenage son in 1996.


Political analysts were divided on how the crisis would impact
the Democratic race, which has Edwards in a leading troika of
candidates, polling just behind senators Hillary Clinton and
Barack Obama.


Edwards, 53, has pinned his hopes on grabbing momentum from a
strong showing in the first party nominating contest in the
Midwestern state of Iowa, next January.


Stephen Schmidt, professor of politics at Iowa State University,
said two strands of opinion had emerged among political analysts,
donors and operatives in the state since the announcement.


While no one would want to be seen making hay out of a health
scare, he said, Edwards campaigners could paint their man as
showing courage in a crisis.


"He has the capacity of making a hard decision like this and
making it quickly, and make it without waffling and wavering --
that kind of leadership is admirable," said Schmidt.


But some Iowa Democratic financial donors were saying that "this
is a serious illness, even if he gets elected president, it is
going to be a huge strain and drain on him, it is going to be
distracting."


As he deals with his wife's relapse, Edwards must also fight a
growing impression he is falling behind front-runners Clinton and
Obama.


"It can't help but have an impact," said Andrew Smith, professor
of political science at the University of New Hampshire, another
key early voting state.


Top political operatives may now hesitate before joining the
Edwards campaign fearing it would fold before long, Smith added,
and pointed to the crucial race for millions of dollars in
campaign cash.


"It makes a problem for fundraising too," he said. "People tend
to back a candidate who people think (is) going to win."


Edwards must also balance the exhausting grind of the campaign
trail with a desire to be by his wife's side.


Voters in states like Iowa and New Hampshire have high demands of
candidates, requiring them to make repeated trips to small towns,
coffee shops, diners and even their living rooms. No one with
serious designs on the White House can afford to stay away too
long.


Professor Jamie McKown, of the College of the Atlantic in Maine,
said the personal pain endured by the Edwards family, with the
death of 16-year-old son Wade in a car crash, and Elizabeth's
first bout with breast cancer in 2004, may help them in their new
crisis.


"If there is any candidate out there who probably could manage to
compartmentalize the stress of worrying about his wife with at
the same time his commitment to what he is doing, it would be
John Edwards."


Edwards said his wife's cancer had spread from her breast to a
rib, and could not be cured, though it could be treated.


The campaign had to go on, Elizabeth Edwards said, because
"there's nobody who's offering people of this country a more
positive and delineated vision."


"It's important that the American people have the opportunity to
have a president like him."


Edwards, the 2004 defeated Democratic vice presidential nominee,
is a multi- millionaire former trial lawyer, with folksy
southern-style political skills.


After his failed run for the White House, Edwards tacked left,
emerging as a champion of American workers who feel dispossessed
by the flight of blue-collar jobs abroad.

