

Iran remained defiant Thursday as the UN Security Council
prepared to meet to thrash out details of new sanctions over
Tehran's refusal to halt its enrichment of uranium.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told French television on
Thursday that the sanctions are illegal, adding that he was "not
worried" by the prospect of US strikes against his country over
the issue.


"Uranium enrichment is legal. The American and British positions
in the Security Council are illegal," he said on public channel
France 2.


But he also promised to present "new proposals" about Iran's
nuclear program, which major powers believe is aimed at producing
nuclear weapons.


"Of course we are going to make new proposals, good proposals.
Our proposals are based on rights and laws and on the inalienable
rights that all nations possess, not only what the United States
and Great Britain want," he said.


Ahmadinejad spoke as the Security Council prepared to meet late
Thursday to discuss proposed changes to the draft sanctions
agreed last week by the council's five veto-wielding permanent
members Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States, and
non-member Germany.


The full 15-member Security Council was to meet behind closed
doors at 5:00 pm (2100 GMT) on the changes proposed by South
Africa, Qatar and Indonesia.


The basic draft broadens UN punitive measures already imposed on
Iran since December after the country repeatedly refused to stop
its enrichment operations.


The expanded sanctions would ban Tehran from exporting arms, call
for voluntary trade sanctions and add to a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


Iran has rejected accusations that it strives to produce weapons
with the enriched uranium, insisting its nuclear program is aimed
at generating electricity.


As tensions mounted over its nuclear aims, Tehran on Thursday
announced it had launched naval military exercises, codenamed
"Power," in the Gulf to display the Islamic republic's "power and
defense capability."


"During these maneuvers frigates equipped with missiles,
warships, air-to-sea missiles and sea-to-air missiles are being
used, as well as tactical reconnaissance submarines," Admiral
Sajad Kushaki told state television.


"The Iranian people will not allow a single American soldier to
set foot on their soil."


Earlier this year US President George W. Bush announced the
United States was increasing its own strategic naval presence in
the Gulf, in a move seen more directed at Iran than to support US
forces in Iraq.


Leading advocates for new sanctions talked with other members of
the council ahead of Thursday's meeting.


In Washington Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with
Indonesian Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda, but made no comment
on the gist of their talks.


In Paris, French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy spoke by
telephone with his South African and Qatari counterparts about
their respective proposed amendments to the sanctions resolution,
his office said.


"We want to take as much time as necessary for this dialogue to
examine suggestions which have been made," French foreign
ministry spokesman Jean- Baptiste Mattei said.


"We are keen to maintain the unity of the international
community."


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, on a visit to Qatar,
also discussed the nuclear issue with her Qatari counterpart,
Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jaber al-Thani.


Qatar and Indonesia have both proposed including in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery."


But a South African proposal for a 90-day suspension of UN
sanctions to allow political negotiations with Tehran was
dismissed by the sponsors as "not consistent with the basic
construct" of the sanctions resolution, a Western diplomat said.


It also suggested deleting the weapons ban and many financial
sanctions which, if accepted, Western diplomats said, would gut
much of the draft.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the
early 1990s, has consistently defended Iran's right to enrich
uranium for peaceful purposes.


"Some of those amendments are quite reasonable and indeed add to
the value of the resolution," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
told reporters Thursday.


"We'll see tonight. If there is a feeling the 15 members of the
council are comfortable with the text, that the amendments are
acceptable to everybody, we could have a vote by the end of the
week," he added.


"For us and I think for others of the six (major powers), the
unity of the Council, a good atmosphere within the Council, a
respectful attitude toward each other is more important than the
exact timing, so if it takes a few more days (for a vote), so be
it," Churkin said.


Ahmadinejad has said he plans to travel to New York to attend the
Security Council vote on the sanctions and has been issued a visa
by US authorities.

