

International concern mounted Thursday over an outbreak of
fighting between government troops and guards loyal to defeated
Democratic Republic of Congo presidential candidate Jean-Pierre
Bemba.


At least two civilians were killed when violence once against
descended on the capital Kinshasa, which has been calm since
fighting around historic elections last year left about 30 people
dead.


One of those killed on Thursday was a member of the UN
Development Programme (UNDP), a diplomatic source said, while
witnesses said another died when a floor in a bank hit by shells
collapsed.


At least four people, including a Belgian and a French citizen,
were also injured in the clashes. There is as yet no toll from
the warring sides.


Both the United Nations and the European Union urged a ceasefire,
and Bemba himself has called for such a move, telling the UN-
backed independent Okapi radio network that he was ready to talk
to "whoever wants to see peace".


But although the gunfire slowed following his announcement, it
did not stop. The government was due to make a statement on
television on Thursday evening.


Fighting broke out mid-morning near Bemba's home in the northern
Gombe district, where the sound of Kalashnikov and machine-gun
fire was followed first by that of rocket-propelled grenades, and
then government tanks.


"The most complicated thing in this situation is that there is no
frontline. Gunmen from both sides set up wherever they can, in
the streets, in the gardens and in the buildings," a diplomat
said.


"They are firing at each other but most often they are firing
blind. There are a lot of stray bullets."


MONUC evacuated 120 pupils and their teachers who had been
trapped in the French junior school by the fighting outside since
midday.


However, hundreds of children in the French high school and
neighbouring Belgian school, as well as tens of Congolese pupils
in the area, were preparing to spend the night.


The UN Security Council urged both sides to "immediately cease
the exchange of fire, act responsibly and resolve outstanding
issues by peaceful means", expressing particular concern about
the effect of the violence on civilians.


European Union Development Commissioner Louis Michel has spoken
to both Bembe and DRC President Joseph Kabila and urged them to
agree a ceasefire, his spokesman told AFP.


This could be based on Bemba recalling his forces in return for
discussions on the level of military protection the state will
provide him, he added.


Tensions have been rising in Kinshasa ever since the government
announced a few days ago that it intended to scale down Bemba's
personal security force.


William Lacy Swing, the head of the UN mission in the DRC
(MONUC), is in contact with both sides in an effort to defuse the
situation.


France's Cooperation Minister Brigitte Girardin has postponed her
visit to Kinshasa planned for Thursday but said she would "do
everything I can to get there", possibly on Friday.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated as
president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Both Bemba and Ruberwa oppose the withdrawal of their military
protection begun a few days ago, saying a guard of 12 police
officers is insufficient.


Dozens of soldiers and UN armoured vehicles have been stationed
outside Bemba's residence since Tuesday amid fears of clashes
with his guards.


"Bemba's men stepped up their provocations this morning," a
security official said Thursday. "They left their perimeter (at
the residence) and were singing and dancing with red bands on
their heads in a sign of war."


As well as assault rifles, some carried spears and wore good-luck
charms.


A DRC military official said there was no immediate plan to expel
Bemba's forces, saying the objective was to secure the area.


But another Western official said the military was likely to try
to "finish with Bemba's men once and for all."

