

Alex McLeish is confident of a winning start to his reign as
Scotland manager on Saturday but he admits Georgia have the
ability to cause an upset.


The European Championship Group B qualifier at Hampden could
prove crucial to Scotland's hopes of making the finals in Austria
and Switzerland in 2008.


Wins against the Faroe Islands, Lithuania and the shock 1-0
victory at home to World Cup runners-up France, under former boss
Walter Smith, mean Scotland top the group on goal difference,
despite defeat in Ukraine.


However, following Smith's departure to rejoin Rangers, McLeish
faces a daunting task to continue the momentum.


Following the visit of Georgia, Scotland are away to World Cup
champions Italy on Wednesday.


In what is arguably the most difficult qualifying group, a
minimum of three points from the possible six on offer will be
vital to Scotland's hopes of making the finals.


With a win in Italy unlikely, Saturday's game could therefore be
viewed as a must win for the Scots.


McLeish believes his side should be good enough to overcome
Georgia, but he acknowledges they will prove a tough test.


He said: "It will not be an easy game. They'll come here with
confidence, feeling they can cause an upset.


"They are highly technical and under Klaus Toppmoller are very
well organised, as they've shown by keeping clean sheets in
recent friendly wins over Turkey and Uruguay.


"But if we play as we've done in recent games, I'd be confident
of getting three points. Six points from both games would be
absolute utopia, but four points would represent an excellent
start."


Judging by FIFA's world rankings Saturday's game should be
straightforward for Scotland, who are rated the 16th best team in
the world, their highest standing ever, while Georgia are only
85th.


Further encouragement for the Tartan Army can be found in the
Georgians' record in the group - with only one win, against the
Faroe Islands, and three defeats.


However, few can fathom how FIFA decide their ratings - Scotland
have climbed 10 places in five months without playing a game -
and they will count for nothing.


In addition, the games Georgia lost in the group were against
France, Ukraine and Italy, and they have several players who can
cause Scotland problems.


Two of these players, Shota Arveladze and Zurab Khizanishvili,
are known to McLeish from his time as Rangers manager.


The Scotland boss said: "Shota is a gifted player and he can be
deadly on his day. I know his game inside out and he's a
tremendous finisher with both feet and is good in the air.


"Zurab will be looking to try and get one over his old boss. At
the time I thought it was the right thing to do to let him leave
Rangers. There's a lot of pressure at a club like Rangers, which
you don't get at a club like Blackburn and that has helped him
develop."


Georgia's German manager Toppmoller, meanwhile, is hoping for a
better result than the last time he was at Hampden.


Back in 2002 he was in charge of Bayer Leverkusen who lost to
Real Madrid, after a sensational strike from Zinedine Zidane, in
the Champions League Final at Scotland's national stadium.


However, he is confident of a better outcome from this visit.


Toppmoller said: "That match is in the past and I am only
thinking of a better result for Georgia on Saturday.


"Hopefully I can use that defeat to help motivate the players and
maybe this time Arveladze can score a goal as beautiful as the
one Zidane scored on that night."

