

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Thursday inked a
strategic alliance with Azerbaijan to promote gas pipelines that
aim to stimulate competition against Russia's grip on the energy
market.


Neither Rice nor her Azerbaijani counterpart, Elmar Mammadyarov,
spoke to reporters after signing the memorandum of understanding
but a US statement said the deal mainly was aimed at facilitating
pipeline projects that bypass Russia.


The deal calls for a "high-level dialogue... to deepen and
broaden already strong cooperation among governments and
companies to expand oil and gas production in Azerbaijan for
export to global markets," the State Department said.


"Of particular focus will be realization of the Turkey-Greece-
Italy gas pipeline, and potentially the Nabucco and other
pipelines, with Azerbaijani gas, to help Europe bolster its
energy security by diversifying its natural gas supplies."


The Nabucco pipeline project aims to diversify central Europe's
sources of gas supplies by linking eastern Turkey with Austria.


The United States regularly accuses Russia of using its energy
resources, particularly its natural gas, for political ends in
ex-Soviet republics.


"What we are trying to do is to increase competition so that the
European gas market isn't as dysfunctional as it is right now,"
the US deputy assistant secretary of state for European and
Eurasian affairs, Matthew Bryza, told reporters.


"We are not going to pressure anybody but we are going to do
anything we can to help eliminate disinformation and smooth
investment process, which means negotiate the framework
agreements," he said.


Bryza added that in time, the improved competition should even
help Russian energy giant Gazprom, which has "a huge market share
already."


Europe relies on Russia for 25 percent of its gas.


Azerbaijan, a US-friendly Muslim state on Iran's northern border,
had until this year been heavily reliant on natural gas from
Gazprom, but cut ties early this year after a demand for a two-
fold price increase.


A key partner in the Western-backed corridor for oil and gas
pipelines built in the last two years, Azerbaijan now uses mostly
locally produced gas and is increasing gas exports to Georgia.

