

Lou Vincent said his wife had made the difference after he ended
a run of noughts at the World Cup with 101 in New Zealand's
comfortable win over Canada.


Victory by 114 runs meant the Black Caps had won all three of
their Group C matches as they cruised into the Super Eights in
fine form.


And Thursday's win was made all the sweeter for New Zealand by
the sight of Vincent, who'd been out for nought in the wins over
England and Kenya, finding his form at the top of the order.


Asked what had changed on Thursday, Vincent replied: "My wife's
on tour."


The 28-year-old right-hander had to surive a torrid first over
from Anderson Cummins before getting off the mark in style with a
six off the former West Indies fast bowler over cover.


"It's been an interesting start to the tour," Vincent said.


"I really haven't enjoyed it too much. It's been good to put my
hand up today and get through a tough stage and then cash in with
the boys scoring at the other end which made it easier to anchor
an end."


Vincent's innings was the centrepiece of a New Zealand score of
363 for five - their highest World Cup total - which also
featured the fastest-ever World Cup fifty, off 20 balls, from
wicket-keeper Brendon McCullum.


"Whenever you've missed out a few times, it's natural to feel
that you are not very good but the confidence from the boys
around me and the season I've had so far, there's a lot of
confidence within my game at the moment so I just knew it would
come right if I hung in there and batted some time," explained
Vincent, who at the age of 12 moved to Australia before returning
to New Zealand.


"When I was about fifty or sixty I felt the pressure release a
little bit."


One concern for New Zealand, who rested regular new-ball duo
Shane Bond and James Franklin, was the way in which Canada,
despite a daunting target to chase, attacked Daryl Tuffey and
Michael Mason to the extent that 43 runs came off the first four
overs.


The charge was led by Canada captain John Davison, who four years
ago scored the fastest World Cup hundred, off 67 balls, against
the West Indies.


This time around he made 52 off 31 balls.


Reflecting on another convincing win, after a six-wicket defeat
of England was followed by a 148-run sucess against Kenya, New
Zealand captain Stephen Fleming said: "I couldn't really have
asked for much more.


"There's no area where we have been found out, no area ticked
that hasn't been ticked off. We move away from here pretty
comfortable but also pretty confident."


Fleming added Davison was a hard man to contain.


"He's a very good hitter, we've seen John's talents before. We
could have been better, but we weren't as accurate as we could
have been.


"The positive out of today is we learned a couple of things,
especially about those first two bowlers," he said after Tuffey
(none for 40 off six overs) and Mason (one for 49 off six) had
born the brunt of Davison's early assault.


Fleming added that Tuffey had sustained an arm injury which
prevented him bowling a second spell.


He joined batsman Ross Taylor (calf) and seam bowler Mark
Gillespie (shoulder) as fitness concerns for New Zealand heading
into the Super Eights.

