

The United States on Thursday warned Italy not to trade detained
militants for foreign hostages in Afghanistan, saying the
practice raised the risk for countries with personnel there.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice delivered the message
during a telephone call with her Italian counterpart Massimo
d'Alema following US criticism of Rome's handling of the hostage
crisis in Afghanistan.


"Given the increased threat created for all of us who have people
on the ground in places like Afghanistan, we expect that
concessions will not be made in the future," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said in a statement.


The United States, Britain and the Netherlands have said the swap
of kidnapped Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo for the
release of five Taliban militants could invite similar
kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops battling the Taliban.


The United States "does not support hostage exchanges or other
concessions to terrorists," McCormack's statement said.


This "was not a new position" but a "well-known and long-standing
policy that the United States government stressed to the
government of Italy during this crisis as it has in previous
kidnapping crises."


Rice's conversation with the Italian foreign minister was "in-
depth and cordial," the statement added.


"Italy is playing a key role in supporting the people and
government of Afghanistan and remains our important partner in
other areas around the world," it said. "We must now focus on the
extremely important work ahead of us in Afghanistan."


According to the Italian ANSA news agency, D'Alema said he "did
not at all regret having saved" the life of the journalist and
stressed that Italy did not negotiate the release of any
prisoners in the deal.


"We did not negotiate with anybody, but we did receive a list of
people through a humanitarian group," D'Alema was quoted as
saying.


"We did not free anyone because these were not our prisoners, but
we gave the list to the Afghan government, which decided that
these (five) people were not dangerous," he said.


Rome had been "surprised" by the US criticism, a foreign ministry
official said earlier, recalling a "very positive climate" during
a dinner meeting between D'Alema and Rice in Washington on
Monday.

