

A verdict was expected Friday in the trial of Vietnam's former
deputy trade minister for accepting bribes for quotas to export
textiles.


Prosecutors have demanded 10 to 12 years' jail for Mai Van Dau if
found guilty by the Ho Chi Minh City People's Court of taking a
total of 6,000 dollars in bribes from garment companies in 2003
and 2004.


The trial of 14 people in total is the first of several major
corruption cases to come to court after Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung took office last year vowing to crack down on endemic
corruption.


Dau, 64, was in charge of allocating quotas under the now-defunct
Vietnam-US Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, while his son Mai
Thanh Hai, 34, a trade ministry official, allegedly acted as a
mediator in selling them.


In the nine-day trial, the former deputy minister, who has been
in jail since November 2004, retracted an earlier admission that
he took bribes, claiming he confessed only after police promised
him medical parole.


Prosecutors have also asked that his son Hai be jailed for four
to six years for using his father's influence to gain 35,000
dollars from garment companies, plus one to two years more for
faking his university diploma.


Textiles are Vietnam's largest export after oil, but shipments to
the United States were capped at the time through quotas as
Washington sought to protect its garment industry from cheap
imports.


The quota system has now been abolished. Vietnam joined the World
Trade Organisation in January, allowing producers in the
Southeast Asian country open access to the US market.


Prosecutors also demanded 14 to 16 years' jail for Le Van Thang,
former deputy head of the Trade Ministry's import-export
department, for allegedly accepting a bribe of 18,000 dollars,
according to state media reports.


They asked for 8 to 10 years' jail for Ho Chi Minh City official
Nguyen Cuong, and 10 to 12 years' prison time for Bui Van Tuan,
former head of Tomotake Vietnam Company Limited, for allegedly
brokering bribes.


Prosecutors also asked for six to eight years' jail each for
businessmen who allegedly paid the bribes, Chinese national Lai
Wai Hung of Sundance Company Limited and Tran Thi Thu Lan of the
Asian Trade and Garment Company Limited.


Vietnam expects more corruption trials this year after police
recently wrapped up probes into graft involving the state-run
Vietnam Oil and Gas Corporation and an infrastructure unit of the
transport ministry.

