

Defending champions Australia hope explosive all-rounder Andrew
Symonds recovers fully from arm surgery to give them the edge in
their World Cup Group A match against South Africa.


Saturday's game is the most-eagerly anticipated clash in the
first round pitting the two-time defending champions against the
world number one with a crucial extra two points on offer for the
winners going into the Super Eights.


Adding spice to the contest is the bitter rivalry between the
two.


"We are approaching this as big a game, as a semi-final or a
final. Symonds is ultra-important. He wouldn't be here if we
didn't know how big a player he's going to be for us through this
World Cup," said Australia skipper Ricky Ponting.


The 31-year-old all-rounder has progressed well after last
month's surgery and Australia were ready to wait for his return
until the morning of the crucial match.


"We are hoping we can get him to 100 percent or near enough to
that, and he can get out onto the field and let out all the
frustration," said Ponting.


Symonds' replacement Brad Hodge has justified his place by
hammering a brilliant hundred against the Netherlands as well as
bowling his arm over for one wicket against Scotland in
Australia's two wins.


More concerning for Ponting is the form of batsman Michael Hussey
who has made two and four so far, a run of form which may force
Australia to include Symonds.


"There is a possibility that we might name an unchanged team -
for Symonds' sake he'd probably hope not," added Ponting.


"It would be nice to welcome him back but we are not going to do
that if we don't think he's at the appropriate level to play
somewhere near his best, especially when other guys in the team
are playing at their peak."


Ponting said his team is looking forward to the highly-charged
match.


"It's the number one and number two ranked teams going head to
head in the World Cup. It doesn't get much bigger. We've been
speaking about this game and waiting for this game to come around
for quite a while."


South Africa took the world number one spot last month after
Australia lost five of six matches, including 3-0 to New Zealand
when Ponting was resting his injured back.


Ponting says he is not concerned if his team was behind in the
rankings.


"Now they're the number one ranked team, so they've obviously
done a lot of things right in the last two years as well," said
Ponting.


"Maybe some of the pressure is on them now, maybe we can go in as
the underdogs and let them be the favourites that we've been."


Both teams have been level-pegging in their last ten one-day
matches, winning five each. South Africa won the last match by
chasing a world record target of 435 runs at Johannesburg twelve
months ago.


Asked if world records are at stake again, Ponting replied: "If
it's going to happen, it's going to happen on a pitch like this
one. I've said that all week, we're going to have to bat well and
make a big score.


"I'm really excited because we're going to see a great game of
one-day cricket. Whether it's a 200-(run) game or 400, you're
going to see some of the best cricketers in the world.


"I'm very confident that we're going to go out there and play
somewhere near our best, and if we do we'll be very competitive."


Ponting agreed injured spearhead Brett Lee will be missed against
South Africa.


"Lee is a champion fast bowler and one of the best in one-day
cricket around the world, so we know we miss him, he's got a very
good record against South Africa, particularly against (South
Africa captain) Graeme Smith. But if others bowl well we won't
miss him much."


Smith said his team was preparing for a full-strength Australia.


"We've got to plan that he (Symonds) is going to play. It will be
interesting to see if they take the gamble on him, that's going
to be a risk for them.


"We'll plan that he does play and we'll take it from there," said
Smith, whose team also beat Scotland and the Dutch through big
margins so far.


"I think both teams are very close. We've come a long way against
Australia. I don't think there's that fear factor any more.


"It's about going out there and performing well. There's a lot of
respect on both teams. It's going to be a cracking game and
hopefully it lives up to what everybody wants to see.


"We are looking forward to it and I know they are."

