

Venus Williams, unseeded as she plays just her second tournament
of 2007, overcame a slow start to reach the second round of the
6.9 million-dollar WTA and ATP Masters Series tournament here
Thursday.


On a day that saw rain delays of more than five hours force a
major reworking of the schedule, Williams opened the evening
session on Stadium Court with a 7-5, 6-2 victory over Yuliana
Fedak of Ukraine.


Williams eked out the first set despite 31 unforced errors.


"It was definitely a really interesting day on the court," she
said. "Started out with a few errors. It was really windy
conditions, and she's definitely a particularly difficult player
to play against in the wind because she doesn't put a lot of pace
on the ball so the ball is constantly moving.


"So it was definitely challenging. Even though I got down, I
didn't feel like I was going to lose the match at all, I just
felt like I just needed to find my timing."


Williams said that even as she trailed in the first set, she
thought she could come back.


"At four-love, I was thinking 'Hold, break, hold - it's even,'"
she said. "I felt really confident. It was definitely a set I
could win, just keep some balls in."


A three-time Wimbledon winner and two-time US Open champion,
Williams has been nursing an injured left wrist since last
October.


The US star has appeared in only one tournament this season,
winning the WTA tier three event in Memphis last month.


The 26-year-old, who has committed to the US Fed Cup tie against
Belgium in April, said her wrist was "doing good."


Williams faces 29th-seeded Russian Maria Kirilenko in the second
round. The top 32 seeds received first-round byes.


In the men's draw, Argentine Guillermo Canas ousted Britain's Tim
Henman, 3-6, 6-2, 6-1 in first-round clash.


Canas returned from a 15-month drug suspension in September and
has been playing his way back into form.


The 29-year-old caused a sensation two weeks ago when he ousted
world No. 1 Roger Federer in the second round at Indian Wells,
ending the mighty Swiss player's 41-match winning streak.


He battled back from a set and a break down against Henman,
posting yet another victory over a player he has beaten in three
Grand Slams.


"I think in the beginning of the match I didn't play my best
tennis, but Tim played very well," said Canas. "After, when he
was a break up in the second set, I think I changed a little bit.
I tried to to return better, just tried to play more aggressive
in my game.


"I broke back very soon, and then the match was tough again. I'm
very happy because I think it was a tough match for me and for
first round."


Unseeded Yaroslava Shvedova of Russia, who won her maiden WTA
singles title at Bangalore last month, beat Dominika Cibulkova of
Slovakia 6-3, 6-1 to reach the second round.


In other early first round matches on Thursday, Taiwan's Chan
Yung-jan defeated Nuria Llaagostera Vives of Spain 6-2, 6-3 and
Kaia Kanepi of Estonia beat Bulgarian Tsvetana Pironkova 6-4,
6-4.


On the men's side of the draw, Austria's Florian Mayer defeated
Igor Kunitsyn, of Russia, 6-1, 6-0 and Italy's Potito Starace
beat Russia Alex Kuznetsov 6-4, 7-6 (7/4)

