

German sprinter Britta Steffen is slwoly coming to terms with the
upsurge in international focus on her swimming after her
unexpected 100m freestyle world record last year.


Steffen, 23, stunned the swimming world when unheralded last
August she broke Australian Libby Lenton's world record with a
new time of 53.30sec and was also part of two world record-
breaking relay teams.


Her performances at the European swimming championships triggered
intense scrutiny and raised suspicions about doping.


The clamour has only increased since her arrival in Australia for
the 12th world championships as she battles Australians Lenton
and Jodie Henry and American Natalie Coughlin for the 100m crown.


"I feel sad about the situation, but after the European
championships I was confronted by these questions from the German
press and I feel that's something I have to deal with," she told
a press conference Friday.


"I understand the questions especially when I look back to last
summer and all the news about doping in cycling and in other
endurance sports. This is something that happens quite often.


"I understand this has to be asked of me as an endurance athlete.
I am sad about it, of course, but I am taking a pro-active
attitude to it and I do what I have to do to show that I am
clean."


Steffen's situation has the empathy of Lenton, who said this week
it was a shame doping allegations were levelled each time a
record was broken.


"It's disappointing that when a good performance happens the
first thing people jump to is that they are doing something
wrong," Lenton said.


Steffen, who won six titles at the 1999 European junior
championships, said the major change in her life since her world
record swim has been the huge amount of media attention.


"I do the same things, I study and live in a small Berlin
apartment as I used to, but the major change has been all the
attention that I have to satisfy," she said.


"It's no wonder that I wasn't that well known internationally
before the world record, because basically I wasn't in the
international focus previously.


"I am going to do my best at the world championships, I think it
is possible for my world record to be beaten, not necessarily by
me, but you never know."


Head coach Orjan Madsen said he expected the flurry of questions
about Steffen's performances.


"It's obvious. When you look at the history of German sports,
especially when you go back to the period of East Germany and
what happened there, I think (the suspicion) is quite normal," he
said.


"What I think is important though is to realise that it's 17
years since the (Berlin) Wall came down and now all of Germany is
a Western society and all the coaches and other personnel that
used to work in the East German system, that are still working,
have adapted to the Western system."

