

Wall Street shares ended mixed Thursday as the market digested a
powerful rally a day earlier fueled by what some analysts said
was a Federal Reserve hint of an easier money policy soon.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 13.62 points (0.11
percent) to close at 12,461.14 after a big 1.3 percent gain on
Wednesday.


The Nasdaq composite dropped 4.18 points (0.17 percent) to
2,451.74 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 lost a
fractional 0.50 points (0.03 percent) to 1,434.54.


"The market took a breather today to consolidate recent strong
gains," said Al Goldman at AG Edwards.


The stock market was still parsing the statement by the Fed after
a decision to hold rates steady.


The central bank eliminated a reference to "firming" or hiking
rates in its latest policy statement, saying instead it would
make "future policy adjustments" based on incoming data.


"The market was pleased to see (the Fed) hold off on any rate
increases in response" to inflation, said Fred Dickson at DA
Davidson.


But Dick Green at Briefing.com said Wednesday's sharp rally
appears to have been an overreaction to the Fed, and pondered
whether the market may be too eagerly anticipating a rate cut.


"The (Fed) statement did remove the bias towards tightening, but
there was no hint of any rate cut soon. It was modestly positive
news at best," he said.


Bob Dickey, a technical analyst at RBC Dain Rauscher, argued that
the big gains on Wednesday showed the market had successfully
tested its lows after the turmoil began with a major selloff in
global equities last month, starting in Shanghai.


"What's left behind is a 'W' pattern for the low, consisting of a
low point and test of the low, followed by a rally through the
mid-point of the 'W,'" he said.


"This is one of our favorite bottoming patterns, and rarely do we
get to see one that is so clean in its formation."


He said this likely means that "the recent low, and the high
level of concern and bearishness that it created, likely
represents a market low that will stand for several months."


Among stocks being watched, Motorola slid 1.24 dollars or 6.6
percent to 17.50 after the mobile phone giant downgraded its
revenue outlook and shook up management in the face of softening
sales.


Procter and Gamble rose 89 cents to 63.85 after the consumer
goods maker got a positive brokerage recommendation.


Alcatel-Lucent fell 50 cents to 11.48 after a negative brokerage
note on the newly merged maker of telecommunications equipment.


KB Home shed 54 cents to 47.25 after the home building group
posted a drop in first-quarter profits, reflecting the sharp
downturn in the US housing market.


Bonds swung lower. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
climbed to 4.589 percent from 4.518 percent Wednesday while that
on the 30-year bond increased to 4.782 percent against 4.696
percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

