

Italy fended off criticism from NATO allies on Thursday that it
had made hostage-taking in Afghanistan more likely after the swap
of five Taliban prisoners for a kidnapped Italian journalist.


Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema said that he did not
regret saving the life of La Repubblica correspondent Daniele
Mastrogiacomo, who was held for two weeks and witnessed the
beheading of his Afghan driver before being released on Monday.


"It's preferable to have a dispute over the fact that we saved
him, rather than to have one over having had him killed," D'Alema
said.


He spoke by telephone with US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
after the United States, Britain and the Netherlands said the
swap could invite similar kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops
battling the Taliban.


He planned to seek "clarification after the criticism from an
anonymous source" at the US State Department, a foreign ministry
official told AFP earlier.


Rice's telephone conversation with D'Alema was "in-depth and
cordial," a statement from US State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said.


"Given the increased threat created for all of us who have people
on the ground in places like Afghanistan, we expect that
concessions will not be made in the future," the statement said.


The United States "does not support hostage exchanges or other
concessions to terrorists," it said.


This "was not a new position" but a "well-known and long-standing
policy that the United States government stressed to the
government of Italy during this crisis as it has in previous
kidnapping crises."


D'Alema took issue those who said Italy had swapped Taliban
prisoners.


"We did not negotiate with anybody, but we did receive a list of
people through a humanitarian group," the minister was quoted as
saying.


"We did not free anyone because these were not our prisoners, but
we gave the list to the Afghan government, which decided that
these (five) people were not dangerous," he said.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates, asked whether he was concerned
about a deal that left Taliban fighters free to resume attacks on
coalition force, said: "Yes."


On Wednesday a US official, speaking on condition of anonymity,
went further, saying the swap increased the risk of kidnappings.


In London, a spokeswoman for Britain's Foreign Office told AFP:
"The UK has serious concerns about the implications of releasing
Taliban in return for hostages ... This sends the wrong signal to
prospective hostage-takers."


Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen, on a visit to Kabul on
Wednesday, said: "When we create a situation where you can buy
the freedom of Taliban fighters when you catch a journalist, then
in the short term there will be no journalists anymore."


Also Wednesday, the US-based Committee to Protect Journalists
issued a statement voicing "deep concern" over the exchange.


"While we are relieved that our colleague has been released and
is now safe, we are deeply concerned by these reports that a
journalist was ransomed for five Taliban prisoners," CPJ
Executive Director Joel Simon said in a statement.


"Such an action has serious implications for the safety of
journalists working in Afghanistan."


Leading political analyst Sergio Romano told AFP that domestic
political considerations were part of the decision.


"The death of the journalist would have seen an earthquake within
the (centre- left) coalition" of Prime Minister Romano Prodi,"
Romano said.


The issue of Italy's 2,000-strong contingent in Afghanistan --
fiercely opposed by the far left in Prodi's government -- briefly
brought down the government last month.


An editorial in Mastrogiacomo's La Repubblica noted that had the
episode ended in tragedy the government would be unable to keep
its troops in Afghanistan.


"For an America already weak on the international stage," keeping
the coalition together in Afghanistan "trumped everything else,"
it said.


A vote on refunding the mission is set in the upper-house Senate
-- where Prodi enjoys only a two-seat majority -- next week.


Italy's defence ministry agreed with the US position, according
to press reports. Defence Minister Arturo Parisi said that a
"dangerous precedent" had been set by the deal, Corriere della
Sera reported.


Since Prodi came to power in May last year, US-Italian relations
have suffered several strains including the opening of
proceedings against 26 US intelligence agents for the 2003
kidnapping of an Egyptian cleric in Milan and the killing by a US
marine of Italian secret service agent Nicola Calipari.

