

Inept security at Canada's 19 ports leave this country and its
biggest trading partner, the United States, vulnerable to
terrorist attack, a Senate report said Thursday.


Canada's 19 ports funnel almost four million containers each
year, with about 30 percent eventually shipped to the United
States.


The Standing Senate Committee on National Security and Defence
lamented that only a small percentage of inbound containers are
scanned. The report found that existing port police resources are
inadequate, allowing organized crime to fester.


"Any one of these containers could contain chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear, or explosive devices designed to lay waste
to a large Canadian or US target," says the 108-page report.


"Is this probable? Perhaps not. But was it probable in 2001 that
a bunch of terrorists would commandeer planes and fly them into
buildings?"


The government announced measures in November to boost Canada's
maritime port security, but the Senate committee said this only
created an "illusion that something is being done to solve a
problem, when it isn't."


The committee urged that all containers be screened and foreign
governments be asked to permit searches of vessels destined for
Canada in foreign ports.


The senators also said steps must be taken to seal "porous" port
perimeters, and to winnow workers with ties to organized crime.


The committee heard in 2002 testimony that an estimated 15
percent of longshoremen and 36 percent of checkers at the Port of
Montreal, as well as 39 percent of longshoremen at the Port of
Halifax, had criminal records.


Montreal and Halifax are Canada's busiest Atlantic ports.


Meanwhile at Canada's busiest Pacific terminal, the Port of
Vancouver, "Indo- Canadian, Asian and traditional organized crime
groups ... remain very active," federal police told the committee
in January 2007.


Only 24 Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers are
assigned to monitor Canada's 19 major ports and have dealt with
only 30 percent of illegal activity at the ports, the report
said.


The Senate report said the job of securing Canada's ports
requires 1,300 to 1,500 dedicated RCMP officers.

