

One of the six men on trial for an alleged copycat bombing plot
broke ranks Thursday, accusing a co-defendant of planning suicide
attacks in London "bigger and better" than those of July 7, 2005.


Manfo Kwaku Asiedu also claimed that Muktar Said Ibrahim had
installed an explosive device in the sideboard of the flat where
the bombs were allegedly made, and designed it to go off when
police entered the premises.


The pair are among six men being tried on charges of plotting to
carry out a terrorist attack on London's transport network on
July 21, 2005, two weeks after suicide bombings in the capital
killed 52 commuters and injured more than 700.


Asiedu, speaking through his defence lawyer Stephen Kamlish, told
the high- security Woolwich Crown Court in southeast London that
Ibrahim had ordered him to join the group plotting the suicide
attacks, and intended for them to be a "copy-cat" of the July 7
bombings, only "bigger and better."


While cross-examining Ibrahim, Kamlish told him: "Four real bombs
on the tube (Underground trains) and one block of flats, a tower,
destroyed, going up in a ball of flames. That was your plan
wasn't it?"


"We say your 21/7 bombs were to be bigger and better in your
twisted thinking than that of 7/7."


The Eritrean-born Ibrahim repeatedly denied the accusations, at
one point angrily responding: "This is totally not true, I do not
know why Asiedu is making these accusations."


He had said earlier in the two-month trial that he had not
intended for the devices to detonate, and the alleged attack was
a demonstration against Muslim suffering, especially in Iraq.


Kamlish, however, accused him of planning "to explode real bombs
on the London transport system. These were not to be hoax
devices."


"You wanted to do a copy-cat of 7/7 -- four bombs on 7/7, four
bombs two weeks later on 21/7. That was your plan."


On the opening day of the case on January 15, the accused were
alleged to have made bombs out of chapati flour, hydrogen
peroxide, acetone and acid, and packed with nails and screws to
maximise "devastation."


Ibrahim was accused of placing a similar bomb in the sideboard of
the flat in which he made the supposed bombs, which Kamlish
argued was "meant to blow and kill whoever opened the sideboard
and anyone else in the building."


The defendant, however, denied that claim, saying he would never
kill anyone because as a Muslim he would be sent to "hell-fire"
for doing so.


Besides Ibrahim and Asiedu, 33, the accused are Ramzi Mohammed,
25, Hussain Osman, 28, Yassin Omar, 26, and Adel Yahya, 24, all
originally from Africa.


In one of the highest-profile cases involving alleged terrorism
seen in Britain, the accused deny charges of conspiracy to murder
and conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life.

