

The dollar regained some ground Thursday after falling sharply a
day earlier in the wake of an announcement by the Federal Reserve
seen as a sign of an easier monetary policy.


The euro was swapping hands at 1.3333 dollars at 2000 GMT,
compared with 1.3368 a day earlier, although it had soared as
high as 1.3388 at one point in the aftermath of the Fed's
announcement.


The dollar had dived to its lowest level against the euro in two
years following the Fed's confirmation that it had opted to keep
its fed funds rate anchored at 5.25 percent as the market had
widely expected.


The dollar firmed against the Japanese currency, rising to 118.15
yen in afternoon trading, up from 117.53 yen Wednesday afternoon.


However, the dollar still remained depressed against the euro and
some analysts attributed its weakness to a perception that the
Fed is now more likely to cut US interest rates rather than hike
rates.


They said the euro has also benefited from expectations that the
European Central Bank is likely to unleash further rate hikes in
future months after last week hiking eurozone borrowing costs by
a quarter-point to a five-and-a-half year high of 3.75 percent.


"Since the Fed announced its neutral lean yesterday afternoon,
the greenback has put in new multi-month lows and subsequently
rebound in a few short hours," said John Kicklighter, a currency
analyst at Forex Capital Markets.


"Still a little shaken, dollar bulls will have time to gather
their wits on Thursday's fundamentally quiet session before the
existing home sales report shakes up the currency market one last
time before the weekend," Kicklighter said.


The dollar showed little dramatic movement Thursday amid a lack
of economic news, but traders said they were awaiting the release
of a report Thursday that would give a fresh snapshot of the US
housing market.


Most analysts expect industry figures to show existing homes
sales slowed to an annualized 6.30 million units in February,
compared with 6.46 million in the prior month.


The British pound meanwhile rose as high as 1.9726 dollars at one
point in Thursday trading after news that British retail sales
leapt by 1.4 percent in February compared with the previous
month, marking the biggest monthly gain since January 2005.


Analysts said the stronger-than-expected data would likely
increase expectations of a rate hike some time soon. British
borrowing costs stand at 5.25 percent.


In afternoon New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2142 Swiss
francs, compared with 1.2091 francs a day earlier.


The British pound was priced at 1.9644 dollars from 1.9678
Wednesday.

