

Hong Kong's Beijing-backed leader Donald Tsang is all but certain
to win another term in office on Sunday, when an elite group of
800 people goes to the polls in this southern Chinese territory.


The members of the election committee are the only people in this
financial boomtown of nearly seven million who get to cast their
ballots for Chief Executive, and the majority will support Tsang,
China's chosen man.


But in what optimists see as a tentative step toward true
democracy, a second candidate is also standing -- the first time
there has been any choice of Hong Kong's leader since Britain
handed back the territory in 1997.


Tsang and challenger Alan Leong even staged two debates, giving
the city some of the flavour, if not quite all the substance, of
a kind of democracy that does not exist in Communist Party-ruled
China.


Many here see the fact that Tsang has had to campaign and debate
as a sign of change in Hong Kong, an international financial hub.


"This has led to a change of political culture in Hong Kong and
will also have impact on the political culture in China," said
James Sung, a political scientist at City University of Hong
Kong.


"This has set a precedent for the future, that the popularity of
a Chief Executive would affect government policies," he said.


Under the terms of the 1997 handover, China agreed to a Basic Law
that calls universal suffrage the "ultimate aim" in selecting the
city's leader.


Since then, however, Hong Kong residents have only been allowed
to vote for the election committee, and even the committee's
decision can be overturned by the Beijing government.


Some of the committee members are appointed, though most are
elected as representatives of various professions. Most are
Beijing loyalists, although enough pro-democracy candidates won
this time to allow a challenger to stand.


Leong, a pro-democracy lawyer, has no illusions that he is a
viable challenger for the top job -- he has repeatedly called the
process rigged -- but insists his campaign has still made a
difference.


"I have absolutely no chance of winning. I am not in it to get
the job," local weekly HK Magazine quoted him saying this week.


"I am in to establish an election culture, and Hong Kongers who
have witnessed this campaign would agree with me that the
political landscape since the first debate has been changed," he
said.


Governed by the rule of law and driven by the freest of free
markets, Hong Kong has unique status in China -- a policy that
former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping described as "one country,
two systems" when the handover took place.


In addition to pointing the way toward universal suffrage, the
Basic Law also declared that Hong Kong's capitalist system would
remain unchanged for 50 years.


But while the city's prosperity has continued, democracy appears
to remain a far-off prospect.


"I dont think we are going to have direct elections next time (in
2012)," said Peter Cheung, a political analyst at Hong Kong
University.


"One possibility would be that we can vote for the chief
executive but it would be a mechanism that would allow the
central government to control the system," Cheung said.


"The central government would have to be sure that nobody very
critical of the government will be selected."


Tsang, a 40-year career civil servant who has the central
government's backing, has pledged to begin settling the democracy
issue in the coming months.


But in the meantime, those who have been clamouring for direct
election of the Chief Executive will see their wishes unfulfilled
on Sunday.


"There could be people who cast blank ballots as a sign of
protest of the election arrangement," said City University's
Sung. "If there are more than 10 blank ballots, China would not
be very happy."

