

At least 13 people were killed and around 100 more injured
Thursday when Mozambique's largest arms depot exploded near
Maputo International Airport, witnesses and doctors said.


The series of blasts went off near the impoverished neighborhood
of Magoanine at around dusk on the outskirts of the capital
causing widespread panic in the city.


Exploding weapons in the armoury ignited those around them,
leading to the series of explosions lasting until about 1930GMT.


Estacio Valoi, a correspondent for Maputo Corridor Radio said he
had counted 13 bodies at the scene of the blast, while a doctor
at the capital's central hospital said he was treating more than
100 casualties.


"We have so many patients, more than 100. We have open fractures,
amputations, multiple amputations," said Dr Assis Da Costa.


The hospital's official death toll stood at nine, but was
expected to rise in the morning as it was thought that families
would be reluctant to drive casualties into the hospital on the
poorly lit roads.


Homes were destroyed and roofs blown off when explosives
rocketing from the armoury landed on nearby houses which went up
in flames, causing people to flee in panic, said an AFP
correspondent.


Many people, especially children, were injured in the ensuing
chaos.


When the blasts subsided people began returning home on foot as
there was no transport available.


Da Costa said all medical personnel had been ordered to
immediately report to duty at the hospital in downtown Maputo.
More than four hours after the blast casualties were still being
stretchered into the hospital.


Another doctor at the hospital, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said that many children were amongst the victims.


"We have had to do many amputations for the children."


He added that some of the children had suffered serious head
injuries and burns in the explosion.


Medics said there had been a strong public response to an appeal
for blood donations and that the hospital should be able to deal
with the flow of patients.


The situation at the hospital was calm, with the army also on
hand, ferrying in the injured for treatment and briefing dozens
of worried relatives.


The explosion of bombs, mines and rounds of ammunition could be
heard around the city and caused a large amount of damage to
nearby buildings, shattering the glass and windows in many
offices.


Witnesses said that several missiles could be seen flying from
distances of up to 30 kilometres (20 miles) from the scene of the
blast.


"It's the biggest armoury in the country. It contains thousands
of tonnes of weapons and ammunition," said Miguel Barreiro, a
United Nations official in charge of the country's disarmament
program.


President Armando Guebuza, speaking on state radio, appealed for
calm among the citizens of Maputo following the explosion.


"Our defence forces are working to assess the situation. We call
upon all our citizens to be calm until the situation is
rectified," Guebuza said in a five minute speech on the national
television channel TvM.


"We do not have enough information on the blasts and again we
call for calm until the government gathers more information on
what happened," he said.


A meeting scheduled to take place between Guebeza and South
African President Thabo Mbeki in Pretoria on Friday was postponed
after the blast, South Africa's foreign affairs department said
in a statement.


"This follows a request from President Guebuza to President Mbeki
to postpone the meeting due to pressing domestic issues following
certain developments in Mozambique on Thursday."


Mozambique was locked in a vicious civil war between 1975 and
1992 but has been largely peaceful since then.

