

Major new clinical research results are expected to be released
this weekend at a gathering of the American College of Cardiology
(ACC), the world's largest forum on treating heart disease.


"I see the meeting with probably more news coming out than I have
seen in a long time," Steven Nissen, the president of this
weekend's meeting in New Orleans, told a news briefing.


The results of 38 clinical trials are expected to be unveiled to
some 3,000 participants during the four-day meeting which starts
on Saturday, according to Nissen, who is head of cardiology at
Cleveland Clinic, Ohio.


Among the studies to be released that are attracting attention is
one on the effect of the so-called Mediterranean diet -- rich in
legumes, fresh fruits, fish and olive oil, and low in red meat
and dairy products -- on people who have suffered a heart attack.


Nissen also highlighted coming news on three studies on the US
company Pfizer's drug Torcetrapid, which aims to boost HDL, or
"good cholesterol," in the blood.


The Food and Drug Administration announced in December that
Pfizer suspended step 3 testing -- the last phase before a drug
goes to market -- of Torcetrapid in combination with atorvastatin
amid an increase in patient mortality.


Lipid-lowering drugs, known as statins, such as Lipitor have
proved a huge success in reducing "bad cholesterol," but the
outlook remains unseen on the HDL-boosting drugs.


These results "will be the subject of extraordinary scientific
interest because there will be three trials presented," Nissen
said.


Separately "a presentation on a reconstituted HDL administered
intravenously will tell us whether it has favorable effects on
the progression of coronary disease," he added.


"These presentations will determine if a very powerful approach
to raising HDL cholesterol is going to have a future or not,"
argued Nissen.


But he said the most eagerly awaited was a clinical test dubbed
Courage.


The study measures coronary intervention, which usually involves
placing stents into patient's hearts, against aggressive drug
therapy for certain stable patients.


If testing shows stents are less effective than previously
thought that could sway a significant market -- more than one
million are implanted every year in the United States alone, with
Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson being the main US
manufacturers.


"If you ask me, Courage is probably the most important trial that
is going to be reported in this scientific session," said E.
Murat Tuzcu, professor of medicine at the Cleveland Clinic
Foundation. He ventured that "the results may very well change
practice."


More than 70 million Americans suffer from cardiovascular disease
the leading cause of death in the United States with more than
900,000 deaths in 2005.


Worldwide cardiovascular disease caused 17.5 million deaths the
same year, 30 percent of the total, according to data from the
World Health Organization.

