

Major powers on Thursday made minor changes to a new Iran
sanctions draft resolution and readied the text for a Security
Council vote expected to take place Saturday but Tehran remained
defiant.


The 15-member Security Council met behind closed doors late
Thursday to consider changes made to the text agreed last week by
the council's five veto-wielding permanent members -- Britain,
China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus Germany.


"Our intention is that there should be a vote Saturday,"
Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry told reporters after the
meeting. "We'll meet tomorrow for one final consideration. But
the text is in blue," indicating it is ready for an imminent
vote.


A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the
draft was expected to receive overwhelming support.


"The sponsors presented us with a text that took some of the
amendments offered by South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar and left
out others," said South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who
chairs the council this month.


"We are disappointed because we made the amendments in good
faith," he added. Kumalo said. "We expected they would give our
capitals a chance to look at what they could accommodate ... I
don't know what is left for my minister to do."


The draft under consideration would ban Tehran from exporting
arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of
officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to the Islamic republic and a freeze on
financial assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and
ballistic missile work.


The sponsors rejected South Africa's suggestions for a 90-day
suspension of UN sanctions to allow political negotiations with
Tehran and removal of the weapons ban and many of the financial
sanctions.


A proposal by Indonesia and Qatar to include in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery" also was
dismissed.


The sponsors, however, agreed to add language underlining that
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the UN nuclear
monitoring agency, "is internationally competent for verifying
compliance with safeguards agreements, including the non-
diversion od nuclear material for non-peaceful purposes."


Their text also restated that an offer of generous economic and
diplomatic incentives made by the six powers to Iran last year if
it halts uranium enrichment "remains on the table".


But Kumalo rejected the changes as "cosmetic."


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


US acting ambassador Alejandro Wolff said: "We embraced
amendments that were consistent with the philosophy of the
resolution, which is built on a framework of two previous
resolutions and those that would enhance its clarity, that would
add to its value."


Wolff said those amendments "not in keeping with the architecture
in place" were rejected.


But Tehran showed no sign of compromising. It announced Thursday
it had launched naval military exercises, codenamed "Power," in
the Gulf to display the Islamic republic's "power and defense
capability."


"During these maneuvers frigates equipped with missiles,
warships, air-to-sea missiles and sea-to-air missiles are being
used, as well as tactical reconnaissance submarines," Admiral
Sajad Kushaki told state television.


"The Iranian people will not allow a single American soldier to
set foot on their soil."


At UN headquarters, diplomats said Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad's intention to attend the Security Council vote on
sanctions had no bearing on the timing of the vote.


The Iranian leader, who was granted a visa by US authorities,
told French television Thursday that the proposed UN sanctions
were illegal, adding that he was "not worried" by the prospect of
US strikes against his country over the issue.


But he also promised to present "new proposals" about Iran's
nuclear program, which major powers believe is aimed at producing
nuclear weapons.


The sanctions draft would give Iran 60 days to comply or face
"further appropriate measures," meaning economic sanctions but no
military action, under Article 41 of the UN Charter.

