

Spain's CNMV market regulator said Thursday it was suspending
trading in electricity giant Endesa amid frenzied takeover
speculation and signs that Italy's Enel would launch a rival bid
to Germany's E.ON.


In recent weeks E.ON's attempt to buy Endesa in a 41 billion euro
(48 billion dollar) deal has been threatened by the Italian
group, which has signed deals to buy a near 25-percent stake in
the Spanish group.


And the usually well-informed Cadena Ser radio reported that Enel
would launch a bid next week for 100 percent of Endesa at 40
euros a share, just pipping EON's 38.75, a proposed deal due to
lapse if not finalised on March 29.


Spain's Socialist government favoured an earlier bid by another
Spanish company, Gas Natural, for Endesa before E.ON trumped that
takeover attempt.


However, Enel has in recent weeks signed deals assuring itself of
a 24.99 percent stake and any further addition would oblige the
Italians to launch a bid of their own under Spanish law in
Europe's largest energy sector takeover bid.


The CNMV said it was suspending "as a precautionary measure and
with immediate effect" trading in Endesa pending "clarification
of news that Endesa could be the object of various corporate
operations, either by Enel individually or together with (Spanish
construction group) Acciona."


Acciona, main shareholder in energy compatriot Endesa with a
21.03 percent stake, according to Spanish media reports last week
refused to sell its stake to E.ON amid reports that Spanish bank
Caja Madrid likewise did not want to cede its 9.9 percent stake
to the Germans.


Were Acciona and Enel to join forces then the E.ON bid could
founder, given that the Spanish government also holds a three
percent stake through holding company Sepi.


Following the CNMV statement Cadena Ser said Enel wanted to bid
for 100 percent of Endesa.


Endesa shareholders had been scheduled to vote on the E.ON
proposal at an extraordinary general meeting on Tuesday. But the
Spanish firm called off the meeting after E.ON's announcement.


Earlier Thursday, Caja Madrid said it would decide on Monday if
it will sell its stake to E.ON, which is offering 38.75 euros per
Endesa share.

