

The dollar held steady in Asian trade Friday after regaining
ground in overseas trade as players reduced their expectations of
a near term cut in US interest rates, dealers said.


They said that after digesting the Federal Reserve's remarks
Wednesday, the market view now was that the US central bank was
unlikely to loosen its monetary policy any time soon given
lingering inflation concerns.


The dollar slipped to 118.03 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
118.15 in New York late Thursday.


The euro eased to 1.3327 dollars from 1.3333 and to 157.20 yen
from 157.39.


The dollar had fallen to a two-year low 1.3411 against the euro
after the Fed tweaked its policy statement in a move initially
taken as a sign that it was laying the ground for a rate cut.
Dealers later reconsidered that view.


"Market sentiment was that inflationary concerns remain, reducing
speculation of a near term rate cut, which led traders to
actively buy the dollar," said Yoshifumi Suzuki, forex dealer at
Hachijuni Bank.


"But that is only a view that the market has of the situation.
Traders have now readjusted their positions as they look ahead to
(US) housing and GDP (gross domestic product) figures next week,"
he added.


Dealers said the yen was likely to remain under pressure given
Japan's low interest rates which continue to encourage investors
to borrow cheaply here to put funds into higher yielding assets
elsewhere -- the so-called carry trade.


"The prospect of interest rates in Japan staying low for the
foreseeable future, combined with the recent recovery in risk
appetite ... encouraged market participants to rebuild carry
trade positions," wrote John Kyriakopoulos, senior strategist at
National Australia Bank.


The Japanese central bank decided this week to keep its rates on
hold at just 0.50 percent, the lowest among the world's major
economies.


As well as next week's US housing and growth figures, dealers
will be poring over construction spending and consumer sentiment
figures.

