

Tony La Russa, manager of the World Series champion St. Louis
Cardinals, was arrested Thursday on a charge of drink driving
after police found him asleep behind the wheel of his car.


Florida police said La Russa was sleeping behind the wheel of his
running sport utility vehicle at a traffic light at approximately
midnight.


The 62-year-old La Russa provided two breath samples and had a
blood alcohol content of 0.093 percent. Florida's legal limit is
0.08.


La Russa was arrested and booked on misdemeanor charges and was
released from the Palm Beach County Jail after posting 500 dollar
bond.


La Russa, Major League Baseball's third all-time winningest
manager with a career record of 2,297-1,986, was on the bench for
the Cardinals' Grapefruit League game against Florida on Thursday
afternoon.


"I'm not sure what type of statement to give," La Russa said
after the game. "Last night's situation is the opposite of
feeling good. It was an embarrassment, so I apologize to anyone
who is close to me, members of the Cardinals organization, our
fans. I regret it, take responsibility, and I'm not sure there is
anything else I can say."


In a statement, the Cardinals expressed support for La Russa.


"The Cardinals organization remains supportive of Tony and we
understand that he has enlisted representation to advise him
through any legal process," a team spokesman said.


"The Cardinals apologize for any embarrassment and or distraction
this reported occurrence has created towards the team and its
loyal fans."


According to the police report, undercover officers spotted La
Russa's SUV stopped partially in an intersection. The vehicle did
not move through two cycles of green lights.


The officers repeatedly knocked on the window, but La Russa did
not initially respond. The car was in drive with the engine
running, but La Russa had his foot on the brake.


Once La Russa woke up, he fully cooperated with the police,
putting the vehicle in park and undergoing a drink driving test.


Last season, La Russa guided the Cardinals to their first World
Series title since 1982, making him only the second manager to
win a championship in both leagues. La Russa managed the Oakland
Athletics to three straight World Series appearances, including a
title in 1989.

