

Drug resistance is emerging as one of the biggest challenges in
India's battle against tuberculosis, the major killer of adults
in the South Asian nation, experts warn.


Three percent of all new TB cases in India and roughly 14 percent
of patients undergoing treatment for the disease have developed
resistance to drugs, studies estimate.


Experts have called for upgraded facilities to better diagnose
drug-resistant strains of TB, a disease which spreads through
coughing and sneezing and usually infects the lungs.


"We have limited facilities for detecting drug-resistant TB in
India, which poses challenges in fighting the disease," said Nani
Nair, regional advisor on tuberculosis with the World Health
Organisation.


"We will have another 24 laboratories to detect the drug-
resistant strain in the next five years," said Nair, ahead of
World TB Day on Saturday.


In the meantime, just three laboratories, apart from medical
colleges and private hospitals, are equipped to diagnose such
strains, she said.


India reports some 1.8 million new cases every year -- the
highest in the world -- and 1,000 deaths daily despite having one
of the world's most successful anti-TB programmes.


Doctors say mycobacterium tuberculosis, which causes the disease,
develops resistance to all or some of the drugs when patients
give up their treatment mid-way after visible signs of recovery.


"This form of TB is a very big concern for us because it is more
difficult and more expensive to detect and treat," Nair said.


Even though TB drugs are free in India, many poorer patients
abandon medication because of the difficulty of reporting to the
doctor for supervised treatment at the same time as continuing to
work.


Poor nutrition also makes recovery longer and more difficult.


Public health experts said they would use World TB Day to push
for the development of improved drugs and diagnostic techniques.
The day marks 125 years since the cause of TB was first
discovered.


"The technique we are using today for primary diagnosis is 125
years old now. It's a shame we have not made enough investments
because it's a poor man's disease," said Bobby John, who heads
advocacy body Global Health Advocates.


"Multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB is emerging as one of the biggest
challenges in India, but we have not even started reporting it
fully," John said.


Nair said more effective drugs being tested for faster treatment
were "not going to become a reality before another five to 10
years."


Health experts say India also needs to integrate its facilities
for treating TB and HIV-AIDS.


The weakened immunity of people with HIV makes them most
vulnerable to the disease and India has 5.7 million people living
with HIV-AIDS -- the world's biggest caseload.


"A person with HIV is at considerably higher risk of contracting
TB, but there is not enough cognizance of this problem in India,"
John said.


The country has one of the world's largest Directly Observed
Treatment Shortcourse (DOTS) programme -- recommended by the WHO
for TB treatment -- covering its one billion-plus population.


"The programme was reaching less than 200 million people less
than seven years ago. It's the most underplayed public health
milestone in the world," John said.


Under the programme, the country has reached its target treatment
rate of 85 percent. But its detection rate, stands at under 66
percent, behind the target figure of 70 percent.


"The biggest challenge now is to be able to sustain the current
impetus of the marvellous job India has done," said WHO's Nair.

