

Border checks have been stepped up and police are on high alert
ahead of Saturday's Euro 2008 qualifier between long-time rivals
Estonia and Russia.


Former Soviet state Estonia, which regained independence in 1991,
has an uneasy relationship with its more powerful neighbour and
tensions are set to come to the fore in this football fixture.


"The Estonian-Russian football match is not just about sport.
It's much more that that, as the country we will face in the
stadium is one that occupied us," the Linnaleht newspaper wrote
on Wednesday.


Estonia, like the other two Baltic states, Latvia and Lithuania,
was forcibly incorporated into Stalin's Soviet Union at the end
of World War II, and only regained independence in 1991.


Since then, relations between Tallinn and Moscow have remained
uneasy.


Russia has repeatedly accused Estonia of discriminating against
its large ethnic-Russian minority, while Estonia continues to
take steps to try to shed painful memories of the long Soviet
occupation.


On Saturday, Lillekula Stadium in Tallinn will be full to the
rafters with 10,000 football fans, including around 1,000 from
Russia.


"Additional police will be deployed near transport hubs,
entertainment centres and hotels to make sure enthusiastic fans
of both sides do not cause trouble," senior Tallinn police
officer Einar Lillo told reporters.


"Riot police will also be on standby," he said.


Most of the Russian fans are expected to arrive from Russia's
second-largest city, Saint Petersburg, which lies just 400
kilometres (240 miles) to the east of Tallinn.


A potential trouble-spot could be the statue of a Red Army
soldier that stands in the centre of Tallinn.


Russian fans have announced they will pay a pre-match visit to
the World War II memorial, which Russia sees as a tribute to
those who defeated fascism but which to many Estonians is a
painful reminder of 50 years of Soviet occupation.


"We will lay flowers at the monument," Yuri Davydov, president of
the Russian club's fan club, told Estonian Television.


"It's insulting and unpleasant that such things happen in
Estonia," he added, referring to a decision by Estonian lawmakers
to move the monument from central Tallinn to a less prominent
place.


Because of their historic rivalry, the two sides are going into
the Euro 2008 qualifier full of fighting spirit.


"The Estonians are particularly motivated to beat Russia,"
Russian coach Guus Hiddink said earlier this week.


In March 2002, when the two teams played in Tallinn, the
Estonians scored a surprise 2-1 win over Russia. But when the two
squads clashed recently, in Moscow at the end of last year,
Estonia lost 2-0.

