

Oil prices climbed nearer to 62 dollars in Asian trade Friday on
concerns over tighter US gasoline (petrol) stocks ahead of the US
summer driving season, dealers said.


They said comments from the US Federal Reserve after its interest
rate meeting this week were being taken to point to continued
strength in the US economy and this had also provided support,
they added.


At 11:41 am (0341 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 16 cents at 61.85
dollars a barrel from 61.69 dollars in late US trades Thursday
when prices jumped more than dollars.


Brent North Sea crude for May added 13 cents to 62.64 dollars.


"The crude oil futures are surging. That's really reacting to
several weeks of gasoline inventory drawdowns in the US," said
Victor Shum, senior principal at energy consultancy Purvin and
Gertz in Singapore.


"The inventories have fuelled concerns about tight gasoline
supplies ahead of the summer driving season," he said,
forecasting prices in the low-sixty dollars range for the short-
term.


Sucden analyst Michael Davies said in US trading hours that
gasoline stocks had declined for six weeks in a row ahead of the
peak-demand North American driving season, beginning May 31, when
US drivers hit the roads for their summer vacations.


US gasoline inventories fell 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million
last week, higher than market expectations for a dip of two
million, but crude stocks rose 4.0 million barrels to 329.3
million compared with forecasts for a gain of just one million.


"These (US inventory) numbers are and have been very bullish but
concerns about the economy have held oil back," Alaron Trading's
Phil Flynn said.


"By changing the (wording in its statement Wednesday), the Fed
reduced the chance that they will pigheadedly let the economy
drift into recession," Flynn said.


"The Fed's outlook for the economy should go a long way towards
alleviating fears of sagging energy demand, as well," Fimat
analyst Mike Fitzpatrick said.


On Thursday the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) tried to soften global concerns about decreasing oil
supplies.


"OPEC is committed to ensure steady, secure supplies of crude oil
to all consumers at affordable prices both now and in the
future," OPEC president Mohammed al-Hamili told a conference in
Bangkok.


The cartel decided to leave its total daily output unchanged last
week at 25.8 million barrels, arguing that global supply levels
were healthy.

