

German midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger said on Thursday his
side aim to ruthlessly exploit any weakness in the Czech
Republic's defence to stay top of their Euro 2008 qualifying
group.


The Germans only top Group D by virtue of goal difference from
their Czech rivals so Bayern Munich star Schweinsteiger wants to
make sure of three qualifying points in Prague on Saturday to
give his side some breathing space.


"We have had a good look at the way they play and we know where
their weaknesses are, we have to be ruthless against them," said
the 22-year-old.


German coach Joachim Loew has told his side to attack the Czechs
at every opportunity, but took time this week to organise his
defence to cope with the towering threat of the hosts' striker
Jan Koller.


At 6ft 8ins (2.03m), Koller is a defenders' nightmare in the air,
even topping England's 6ft 7ins bean-pole Peter Crouch, but with
75 caps and 48 goals to his name, his German minders Per
Mertesacker and Christoph Metzelder will have their work cut out.


Metzelder played with Koller at Borussia Dortmund before the
Czech switched to French side Monaco and will work in tandem with
Mertesacker to keep Koller quiet.


"With his height and power, Koller is a dangerous man, especially
with his long legs and we'll have to control his airspace,
particularly at corners," said Metzelder.


While keeper Jens Lehmann will be trying to keep Koller quiet, at
the other end, Germany's strikers Lukas Podolski and Kevin
Kuranyi will be doing their best to unnerve Czech keeper Petr
Cech.


The 24-year-old Chelsea goalkeeper suffered a fractured skull in
a Permiership match last October, but he is back to his best and
sporting a protective rugby headguard.


"I have got over the most difficult moment of my life, now I
enjoy playing even more," says Cech on the eve of his first
international since the injury which so nearly killed him.


"I am not afraid. I have got used to the helmet. It doesn't
bother me, there isn't anything for me to worry about."


His coach at Chelsea, Jose Mourinho, insists the Czech goalkeeper
is stronger than before the injury.


Cech will be tested by the German pair eager to impress coach
Loew, who is defending his unbeaten record having won six games
and drawn one since replacing Jurgen Klinsmann after last year's
World Cup.


With the 2006 World Cup's top goal-scorer Miroslav Klose ruled
out after struggling with a back injury, his able deputies are
relishing the challenge.


"It's a blow to be without Miroslav Klose," said Bayern Munich's
Podolski, "but we must be able to substitute for him and forge a
partership."


And after Germany lost the last encounter between the sides when
they were beaten 2-1 at the Euro 2004 championships, the visitors
have a point to prove.

