

Democratic presidential contender John Edwards said Thursday his
wife Elizabeth had suffered an incurable recurrence of cancer,
but the couple vowed they would not abandon his White House
dream.


"The campaign goes on. The campaign goes on strongly," said
Edwards, as he announced in a news conference in North Carolina
that his wife's breast cancer had come back, and spread to a rib.


"You can go cower in the corner and hide or you can be tough and
go out there and stand up for what you believe in," he said.


The diagnosis threw another intangible into the fast-moving 2008
presidential race, which has Edwards in a top troika of
Democratic candidates, polling just behind senators Hillary
Clinton and Barack Obama.


Elizabeth Edwards, 57, who first announced she had breast cancer
in 2004 but appeared to have beaten the disease, stood alongside
her husband of nearly 30 years and said: "We are going to look at
the silver lining."


The campaign had to go on because "there's nobody who's offering
people of this country a more positive and delineated vision,"
she said.


"It's important that the American people have the opportunity to
have a president like him."


Edwards, 53, broke off a campaign swing to Iowa to return to his
wife's side for a medical appointment this week.


They discovered she had stage-four breast cancer, meaning the
disease has spread beyond the breast elsewhere in the body, her
doctor said.


A biopsy had shown the cancer was in a bone on a rib on her right
side.


Edwards said he was optimistic because "many patients in similar
circumstances have lived many years undergoing treatment.


"Her cancer will not be cured now ... Elizabeth will have this as
long as she's alive ... it's like a patient having diabetes."


Physician Lisa Carey said that while most concern centered on the
bone tumor, some other small spots were causing concern,
including in the lung.


Edwards's main rivals were quick to react.


Clinton posted a photograph of the Edwards on her website, along
with a short message: "Elizabeth is a wonderful, strong
individual and my thoughts and prayers are with her, John and
their children during this difficult time.


"I admire her optimism and strength in the face of adversity, and
I look forward to seeing them both on the campaign trail," said
the message, signed  "Hillary."


Obama posted a picture of Elizabeth Edwards, along with a
statement from him and his wife, Michelle.


"We all admire Elizabeth's strength and determination and the
deep love they so obviously share."


White House spokesman Tony Snow, himself a cancer survivor, said:
"Elizabeth Edwards is setting a powerful example for a lot of
people, and a good and positive one."


Edwards, the 2004 defeated Democratic vice presidential nominee,
is a multi- millionaire former trial lawyer, with folksy
southern-style political skills.


He is seen as a formidable contender in the key midwestern state
of Iowa, currently scheduled to hold its caucus for the
Democratic Party nomination on January 14, 2008 -- the first
nominating contest for the presidential ticket.


His wife's new cancer scare is not the first time Edwards has
been touched by heartache. In 1996 his 16-year-old son Wade was
killed in a freak car accident, a tragedy which prompted Edwards
to leave behind his life as a big-earning lawyer and run for the
Senate.


Elizabeth Edwards underwent chemotherapy and radiation treatment
after her 2004 diagnosis. Edwards told ABC News last year that
the only thing that could derail his campaign was if "her health
problems come back."

