

Australia on Friday called on South Africa to pressure Zimbabwe's
President Robert Mugabe to quit, saying the 83-year-old leader
was a disaster for his country.


Mugabe provoked international outrage last week when opposition
leader Morgan Tsvangirai and several of his supporters were badly
beaten by police after a demonstrator was shot dead.


Australian Prime Minister John Howard said it was time for
Zimbabwe's neighbours to push for an end to Mugabe's 27-year
rule.


"We pussyfoot around far too much using diplomatic language,"
Howard told commercial radio. "This man is a disaster, his
country is just a total heap of misery.


"I think it's time that the neighbouring African countries,
particularly South Africa, exerted political pressure on Mugabe
to go."


Howard noted that inflation was running at around 1,800 percent
and Zimbabweans had one of the lowest life-expectancy rates in
the world.


"Most people have run out of patience about what's happening in
Zimbabwe," he said.


"He (Mugabe) was a brother in arms against apartheid, I know
that, but that's a long time ago."


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer also said Zimbabwe's neighbours
needed to support change in the beleaguered country.


"It is a very bleak scene there and I think what the African
community more generally needs to do is to put pressure on
President Mugabe to liberalise his country (and) restore
democracy," he said.


Downer told national radio he hoped an Australian cricket tour of
Zimbabwe scheduled for September would be scrapped and he would
discuss the issue with the sport's governing body after the World
Cup.


The government had been concerned about the health of Zimbabwean
opposition figure Sekai Holland, a former Australian citizen, and
had Thursday helped her flee to South Africa.


Holland, 64, is married to an Australian and lived here for 20
years until returning to Zimbabwe after Mugabe came to power in
1980 at the end of white- minority rule.


She was beaten by police after an opposition rally on March 11,
suffering three broken ribs, a broken knee, a broken leg,
fractured hands and deep tissue bruising.


"She's been beaten up by Mugabe's thugs in effect and we've been
very worried about her in hospital," Downer said.

