

Defeated Democratic Republic of Congo presidential candidate
Jean-Pierre Bemba was sheltering in the South African embassy
here Friday after a day of clashes between his guards and DRC
troops.


At least two civilians were killed and a dozen wounded Thursday
in the violence in the capital Kinshasa, which had been calm
since fighting after historic elections last year left about 30
people dead.


One of those killed was a worker for the UN Development Programme
(UNDP), a diplomatic source said. One Belgian and one French
citizen were among the wounded.


The United Nations peacekeeping force in the vast, war-torn
central African nation said it had evacuated more than 600 people
caught up in the fierce fighting in Kinshasa's Gombe district.


Fighting broke out mid-morning near Bemba's home, prompting
residents to flee their homes and schools and ministries to
close.


Tensions have been rising in Kinshasa since the government of
President Joseph Kabila announced last week that it intended to
scale down the military force protecting Bemba, a formal rebel
leader.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections here in more than four decades. Kabila was inaugurated
as president in December following a second round victory over
Bemba.


Both Bemba and Ruberwa oppose the withdrawal of their military
protection, saying a guard of 12 police officers is insufficient.


The United Nations and the European Union urged a ceasefire, and
Bemba himself called for such a move, telling the UN-backed
independent Okapi radio network that he was ready to talk to
"whoever wants to see peace" and urging his followers to stop
fighting and return to barracks.


But the gunfire did not stop, with sporadic shots heard into the
night.


The government accused Bemba, whose guards clashed with troops
last year following the elections leaving around 30 dead, of
breaking his promise of never resorting to violence again.


"The government of the Republic will ensure the rule of law as we
are a state based upon laws," said government spokesman Toussaint
Tshilombo Send.


Late Thursday, Bemba sought refuge at the South African embassy.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," South Africa's deputy ambassador
Kenneth Pedro told AFP.


"He didn't feel safe in his home. He wanted to be able to
continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


William Lacy Swing, the head of the UN mission in the DRC
(MONUC), has been in contact with both sides in an effort to
defuse the situation.


MONUC peacekeepers evacuated over 600 people who had been trapped
in the fighting.


Those taken to safety included UN personnel, foreign embassy
staff, school children and wounded civilians, said MONUC
spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Didier Rancher.


"The most complicated thing in this situation is that there is no
frontline. Gunmen from both sides set up wherever they can, in
the streets, in the gardens and in the buildings," a diplomat
said.


"They are firing at each other but most often they are firing
blind. There are a lot of stray bullets."

