

There's more to Sri Lankan paceman Lasith Malinga than his low-
slung round-arm action and bleached-blond hairstyle.


What matters for his team is that he's taking wickets and winning
matches for them.


The fast bowler with the deceptive action, unkempt hair and
silver eyebrow ring played a big role in his team's wins over
Bangladesh and debutants Bermuda in the World Cup group matches
here, grabbing three early wickets in each game.


Sri Lankan coach Tom Moody says Malinga has been performing
extremely well in recent months, but doesn't think it's the new
hairstyle that has brought him luck.


"He he has had many hairstyles over the past 12 months and you
never know what it will be tomorrow," Moody said ahead of his
side's World Cup group match against India.


Malinga's action has already become a big headache for batsmen,
especially on Sri Lanka's tour of New Zealand in 2005.


New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming admitted most of his batsmen
found it difficult to sight the ball, which was coming virtually
in front of the umpires and missing the sightscreen.


"We can't see him when it's a bit overcast and late in the
evening. We asked the umpires to change the colour of their
trousers. There's a period there when he's delivering when it
gets lost in the trousers," Fleming said.


The umpires didn't change their trousers although West Indian
Steve Bucknor tied a sweater around his waist on the final day of
the drawn first Test at Napier where Malinga grabbed nine
wickets, including five in the second innings.


Malinga's second and last five-wicket haul in 21 Tests also came
against New Zealand at Wellington last year.


Sri Lanka are no more a two-bowler team as Malinga is fast
emerging a match- winner to build on the efforts of off-spinner
Muttiah Muralitharan and left-arm paceman Chaminda Vaas.


Moody said 23-year-old Malinga's recent form augured well for the
team in the tournament.


"He hasn't surprised us by his ability to take early wickets
because he's been doing it in recent months in one-dayers and
Tests. He complements our attack and gives it a different
dimension," he said.


"Up front, he has the ability to take wickets with the new ball.
With the old ball, he is very good at executing it right up in
the blockhole. He's an important part of our unit."


Sri Lanka's pace attack looked the best in the group matches
played here with Vaas, Malinga and Farveez Maharoof all striking
early to put pressure on the opposition.


"The quality of Vaas with the new ball is invaluable. The
variations of Malinga is a great asset and Maharoof is well-
suited to these conditions when the ball seams around a bit,"
said Moody.


Malinga was rated the fastest bowler in Sri Lanka when he made
one-day and Test debuts in 2004, but lacked consistency. He kept
learning and improving with every match to eventually become a
strike bowler.


He looked a vastly-improved paceman last year and played a
crucial role in his team's 5-0 series victory in England,
grabbing 13 wickets in five matches. He also impressed in the
Champions Trophy in India with his pace and control.


Malinga has so far captured 71 wickets in 21 Tests and 45 in 30
one-dayers.

