

The chief US envoy to North Korean nuclear disarmament talks
insisted Friday that the Stalinist regime remained committed to
ending its atomic programme, despite a dramatic breakdown in
negotiations.


North Korea walked out of the six-nation talks on Thursday after
four days of deadlock because 25 million dollars in frozen funds
had not been returned, despite pledges from the other parties
that it would soon get the money.


With three weeks to go before North Korea is due to close its
main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow United Nations atomic
inspectors back into the country, US envoy Christopher Hill
remained adamant the deadline could be met.


"I don't think there is a broader point here about whether they
are committed to the nuclear deal. I think they are. Throughout
the week, they reiterated that," Hill told reporters just before
flying back to Washington.


Immediately following the breakdown in the talks on Thursday,
Hill said that the six-party process remained "on track", while
the US State Department also officially remained upbeat.


"All the parties are optimistic about the process and being able
to meet the 60 days clock," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said.


The envoys from China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan
and Russia came together on Monday for their first meeting since
signing an accord on February 13 that set a timetable for the
North to begin disarming.


Under the accord, Pyongyang had 60 days to close its Yongbyon
reactor and allow inspectors from the International Atomic Energy
Agency, who were kicked out in 2002, back into the country.


In return, North Korea would immediately receive 50,000 tonnes of
heavy fuel for energy use.


North Korea would eventually receive one million tonnes of fuel
oil or equivalent energy aid if it completely dismantled its
nuclear weapons programme.


As part of the agreement, the United States said Monday it would
allow for the release of 25 million dollars of North Korean money
frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 due to accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting.


The North had long insisted it would not begin disarming until it
got the money back, and the US announcement raised expectations
that the six-nation envoys would this week be able to discuss how
to implement the accord.


But the money, which was meant to be transferred into a North
Korean account at the Bank of China in Beijing, was never
delivered.


While officials talked of "technical problems" for the delay, the
Bank of China said late Thursday it had still not been asked to
accept the transfer of the money.


The US State Department said the US Treasury's point man on the
issue, Daniel Glaser, would travel to Beijing "relatively soon"
in an effort to resolve the issue.


The State Department's McCormack said Glaser would "work with the
Chinese on the technical details" of returning the 25 million
dollars to North Korea.


However, other six-nation envoys gave the impression the week's
events had left them confused about how and when the financial
sanctions issue would finally be resolved.


"Who knows... one week, I am not sure. Maybe it could take two or
three weeks. I don't know," chief South Korean envoy Chun Yung-
Woo said Friday when asked about when he thought North Korea
would get its money.

