

News reports of chronic air pollution are putting Hong Kong's
reputation as a top Asian tourist destination at risk, travel
industry figures have warned.


With tourism numbers down in the early part of this year, image
makers are moving full throttle in a bid to rebuild travellers'
confidence in the city.


Hong Kong's worsening pollution is a growing tourist turn-off as
smog, mostly from southern China's neighbouring industrialised
Pearl River delta region, wafts in and blots out the famous
skyline.


Surveys by green groups show visitors are increasingly suffering
from smog- related illnesses and lodging complaints about the
poor air quality.


But the problem has become so big an issue that news has
travelled quickly overseas, posing a headache for the tourism
industry.


"Pollution is the worst publicity we can get," said Franz
Donhauser, chairman- elect of the Hong Kong chapter of the
International Association of Travel and Tourism Professionals
(SKAL), a worldwide trade concern group.


"It is something that business people, hotel guests and
journalists are mentioning to us more and more," added Donhauser,
who is also general manager of Hong Kong's five-star Island
Shangri-La Hotel.


Hong Kong was reminded of its increasingly negative reputation
last week when posh cruise company Cunard's flagship Queen Mary 2
paid a visit during its maiden voyage around the world.


The visit sparked controversy when it emerged that British
academic John Reich, an on-board advisor to passengers on what to
do during port calls, recommended the well-heeled travellers stay
away from the city.


"Hong Kong is extremely polluted," archaeologist Reich was quoted
as telling passengers, before denigrating the city's top tourist
attractions.


"There is no point going up The Peak as you will see nothing. Of
course the view is sometimes obscured by fog," he reportedly said
of the Mount Victoria summit, which on clear days offers the best
views of the harbour.


"The Hong Kong Museum of Art is not worth visiting," he added
before turning to the city's favourite pastime: "Dining in Hong
Kong is hopeless because no matter how carefully you study the
menu, you will always be served the wrong dish."


While Reich's comments sparked public outrage, the incident came
as a body blow to the industry after January figures showed
tourist arrivals had dipped for the first time in years, down one
percent year-on-year to 2.17 million.


Matters were not helped that the liner, the world's largest, was
forced by a lack of facilities to dock in the city's busy
container terminal.


"It was a disaster all round," said Paul Leung, chairman of the
Outbound Tour Operator's Association trade group. "The lecture
was bad but forcing the passengers to go to the container
terminal was awful. What does it say about a place when it
doesn't have a cruise terminal?"


The Hong Kong Tourism Board was incensed and demanded an
explanation.


"We take very seriously what is said about Hong Kong," said HKTB
spokeswoman Cynthia Leung, whose organisation spends millions of
dollars each year promoting the city to tourism agencies around
the world.


"We monitor publications and reports and where we feel what has
been written is unfair, we write and ask for clarification," she
said.


Reich eventually explained that he hadn't intended to denigrate
Hong Kong with his lecture.


However, it wasn't the first time the pollution issue had made an
impact on overseas travellers.


In 2005 the government reacted angrily when a travel column in a
leading British newspaper warned visitors to avoid Hong Kong as
its air posed a serious health risk.


Also, last year, foreign chambers of commerce, including the
powerful British and American chambers, warned that executives
from their home countries had expressed concerns about setting up
shop in Hong Kong because of the pollution.


The Outbound Travel Operators Association's Leung said that with
the nearby gambling haven of Macau registering record arrivals
month after month, Hong Kong could ill afford bad publicity.


"It comes at a time when we are turning to the long haul market
because growth in Chinese market, which up to now has been our
bread and butter, has begun to taper off," he said.


"We need to appeal to the bigger-spending traveller in Europe and
the US and this sort of news is counterproductive."

