

Paul Collingwood believes Andrew Flintoff will put his off-field
problems behind him when England play Kenya in their winner-
takes-all clash here on Saturday.


Flintoff was stripped of the vice-captaincy after being one of
six England players and two coaches fined for staying out late
drinking after the side's six-wicket defeat by New Zealand in
their opening group match.


The dynamic all-rounder was also dropped for England's subsequent
51-run win against Canada that got their World Cup campaign back
on track.


Now, whoever wins this weekend's match at the Beausejour Cricket
Ground,  will join New Zealand as one of the two qualifiers out
of Group C for the second phase, Super Eights.


"I think Freddie (Flintoff) will respond well, the whole team
will," said Collingwood.


"I faced him in the nets the other day and it was proper gas. It
was up there. The intensity was there.


"I'm sure when he gets on that park he's going to be desperate to
do well on Saturday and that can only be good for the team."


Collingwood, has been tipped as the man in line to captain
England should Michael Vaughan, who has suffered with knee and
hamstring problems, pull out.


Although Collingwood, who skippered England briefly during some
stages of their warm-up fixtures, doesn't have much captaincy
experience, he said he would love to lead the team again.


"During 2005, I captained Durham for about five games. Michael is
100 percent fit but if the opportunity came up, I'd love to take
it. His cricketing brain is usually a bit better than the rest of
ours."


However, Collingwood insisted his focus was firmly on the Kenya
match. The shock semi-finalists of four years ago, Kenya know
about causing World Cup upsets.


In 2003, they defeated 1996 winners Sri Lanka while, at the 1996
tournament, they beat the West Indies and would love nothing more
than to add England to their list of scalps after a 148-run
thrashing by New Zealand on Tuesday.


"Our chances are good if we do the basic things right," said
Kenya captain Steve Tikolo.


England and Kenya have met just once before, at the 1999 World
Cup where England won by nine wickets at Canterbury. Flintoff,
the only England survivor from that match, didn't bat or bowl.


Collingwood added: "We know what the Kenya side is all about.
From what I've seen, and I've spoken to a couple of Kiwi lads,
about them, they've got a few dibbly-dobblers, not too express.


"They've got basic cricketing talent. They'll put you under
pressure, have ring fields against you, and the Kiwi guys said it
was very hard to get the pace on the ball.


"We have to overcome that in some way. They do swing the ball a
little bit away from the bat, so there's plenty to know before
you go into the game."


Collingwood was in superb form with the bat towards the end of
England's victorious one-day series in Australia last month,
scoring two hundreds and a 70 in three successive matches.


"I just go about my game, I'm never going to smash the ball like
Kevin Pietersen or Andrew Flintoff. Once you get ahead of
yourself, this game can bite you on the backside," he said.

