

Kobe Bryant's National Basketball Association scoring rampage
continued Thursday as he poured in 60 points to lead the Los
Angeles Lakers to a 121-119 victory over Memphis.


Bryant became just the fourth NBA player in history to post three
straight games of at least 50 points. The others to do it were
Elgin Baylor, Michael Jordan and Wilt Chamberlain. Baylor
accomplished the feat with the Lakers in the 1962-63 season.


"It's special. Growing up, I idolized all of them, from Wilt to
MJ to Elgin and everybody else," Bryant said. "It's a tremendous
honor for me to be in that same class with those guys in terms of
being in the history books. I don't know what else to say except
it's truly a tremendous honor."


Bryant, a nine-time All-Star, connected on 20-of-37 shots and
made 17-of-18 free throws to record his 17th career 50-point
performance, tying Hall of Famer Baylor for most all-time in
Lakers history.


In two wins at the Staples Center this past weekend, Bryant
netted 65 points against the Portland Trail Blazers on Friday,
then scored 50 against the Minnesota Timberwolves a day later.


Bryant also added his name to the NBA record books, tying Jordan
for second all- time for the most 60-point games with four.


"He's in a league all to himself," Lakers coach Phil Jackson
said. "If he smells blood in the water, he's going to go after
you. That's what you admire in Kobe, that he's going to attack
and be in that mode and continue to go at a team until you take
him out of the ball game."


This rivals Bryant's most impressive sustained display of scoring
since he poured in at least 40 points in nine straight games
during 2002-03 season.


Bryant also owns the second-highest single-game points total in
NBA history, with his 81 against Toronto last season, outstripped
only by a 100-point performance by Chamberlain in 1962.


Lamar Odom's ally-oop to Bryant, who converted the three-point
play, sparked an 11-4 surge as Los Angeles grabbed a 103-95
advantage with 8:40 left in the fourth quarter.


"He came out really aggressive," Odom said. "When he comes out
agressive like that and he's hitting that pull-up. I mean, we've
seen him get 81 before, so it's not surprising. It's a blessing
to be on the court when he's feeling like that, being a part of
history."


Dahntay Jones' layup helped the Grizzlies pulled within 111-109
at the 4:28 mark. But Shammond Williams hit a 3-pointer from the
corner, then found Bryant for a jumper in the lane to make it a
seven-point edge with 3:43 left.


Odom collected 20 points and 15 rebounds and Luke Walton scored
11 for the Lakers, who have won three games in a row since their
season-high seven-game losing streak.


"It's special because it's coming off three straight wins,"
Bryant said. "This is a stretch where we've really got to make up
some ground and get our rhythm back on this trip. I'm doing my
part, and other guys are stepping up and doing theirs as well."


Spain's Pau Gasol had 33 points and 15 rebounds and Mike Miller
also scored 33 for Memphis, which finished its five-game
homestand with a 1-4 record.


Bryant credited his teammates with making his performance
possible.


"I just feel like guys are finding me," Bryant said."It's not
like I'm taking difficult shots outside of a couple, but I'm
already in rhythm when I take those. To get in rhythm, I need to
get great looks, great picks and great passes. You can't do that
without the help of your teammates."


Bryant will try to continue his hot streak on Friday, when the
Lakers visit the New Orleans Hornets. The defending NBA scoring
champ is averaging 23.1 points per game for his career in the
series.

