

Bayern Munich goalkeeper Oliver Kahn will miss the Champions
League quarter- final first leg clash with AC Milan in Italy next
month after being handed a one-match ban and a fine by UEFA on
Thursday.


The 37-year-old German international veteran was fined 20,000
Swiss francs (12,339 euros) and banned for the first-leg tie at
the San Siro stadium on April 3 after a UEFA Disciplinary
Committee found him guilty of improper conduct.


Bayern's Brazilian defender Lucio was also hit with a fine of
6,171 euros for improper conduct at the same match.


Kahn was brought to task for arguing with a doping control
official following Bayern's 2-1 win over Real Madrid a fortnight
ago, after which he was held back to give a urine sample.


In an interview posted on the Bayern website before the verdict,
Kahn apologised to the doctor involved and explained the reasons
behind the bust-up.


"It was a stupid situation," he said.


"I'm still extremely sorry for that, but it was the fourth time
in a row we'd had a doping control after a match - and would you
believe it, I was picked out of 18 possible candidates for the
fourth time.


"I was disgruntled, especially because my family was waiting and
I'd promised to hurry up after the final whistle this time. We
wanted to go out together for something to eat.


"The team was celebrating a win over Real Madrid, they were all
thrilled and ecstatic.


"And there I was in the medical room, watching the clock, knowing
my family was waiting, drinking everything I could lay my hands
on - and then finally, after two hours, at close to one in the
morning, I managed it. I took my container to the doctor, but he
said he hadn't been watching me. I had to do it all again.


"I was knackered, angry and upset. The way I let my frustration
get the better of me wasn't right."


Bayern coach Ottmar Hitzfeld was quoted on the website of Sport
Bild magazine as saying Bayern will appeal UEFA's decisions.


"We are going to appeal with the hope of winning ... and finding
a happy solution with UEFA," said Hitzfeld.

