

Business software giant Oracle sued rival SAP in US federal court
Thursday, charging the German firm with the online looting of its
software libraries to gain a competitive advantage.


California-based Oracle urged the US District Court in San
Francisco to hold a jury trial in the case and immediately order
SAP and its subsidiaries to return purloined programs and
software fixes or "patches."


"This case is about corporate theft on a grand scale, committed
by the largest German software company -- a conglomerate known as
SAP," Oracle attorney Christopher Hockett wrote in the lawsuit.


"SAP is engaged in systematic, illegal access to, and taking
from, Oracle's computerized customer support systems. Through
this scheme, SAP has stolen thousands of proprietary, copyrighted
software products and other confidential materials."


SAP spokesman Steve Bauer told AFP that the company was declining
to comment on the lawsuit until its attorneys had time to review
the 44-page filing.


The suit contends that SAP responded to Oracle's 2004 purchase of
PeopleSoft by buying Texas-based software company TomorrowNow and
embarking on a law-breaking conspiracy last year to steal
Oracle's customers and technology.


SAP bulked up its sales force to aggressively woo away Oracle
customers, then used the clients' support accounts and passwords
to raid Oracle's software databases, Oracle charged in court
documents.


Oracle said in the filing that it traced more than 10,000
unauthorized downloads of customer "software and support
materials" to computers in Bryan, Texas, where SAP has a US
branch office and TomorrowNow is based.


"SAP has copied and swept thousands of Oracle software products
and other proprietary and confidential materials onto its own
servers," Hockett charges in the lawsuit.


"This storehouse of stolen Oracle intellectual property enables
SAP to offer cut-rate support services to customers who use
Oracle software and to attempt to lure them to SAP's applications
software platform and away from Oracle's."


Oracle said it uncovered the "conspiracy" after noticing unusual
spikes of download activity in November and December at its
password-protected support website for users of its PeopleSoft
and J.D. Edwards software.


The lawsuit gave an example in which log-in information for a
customer that normally averaged 20 downloads monthly was used to
download more than 1,800 pieces of software daily for four
consecutive days.


"Oracle has found many examples of similar activity," the filing
maintained.


"SAP employees using the log-in credentials of Oracle customers
with expired or soon-to-expire support rights had, in a matter of
a few days or less, accessed and copied thousands of individual
Software and Support Materials."


Credentials used to get into Oracle's database belonged to
clients that were about to switch to SAP or already had,
according to the filing.


The downloads spanned every library at the Customer Connection
support website, according to Oracle.


"This theft appears to be an essential and illegal part of SAP's
competitive strategy against Oracle," Hockett wrote.


"To keep the pressure on Oracle, SAP has been engaged in a
systematic program of unfair, unlawful, and deceptive business
practices that continues to this day."


SAP America vice president Richard Knowles testified in 2004 at a
trial in which the US Department of Justice tried to block
Oracle's acquisition of PeopleSoft, which was completed January
7, 2005, the lawsuit notes.


Oracle said it will seek unspecified cash damages and
compensation at trial.

