

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates argued for closing the
Guantanamo Bay prison shortly after he took over his post in
December, citing its "tainted" image abroad, the New York Times
reported Friday.


Gates found support for his case from Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice but failed to persuade President George W. Bush
to shut down the detention camp at the US naval base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the paper said, quoting unnamed
administration officials.


In his first weeks in office, Gates lobbied to have trials of
terror suspects held at Guantanamo to be moved to the United
States to lend more credibility to the proceedings and to remove
a problem that was hampering the broader war on terror, the
officials told the Times.


The defense secretary's predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, had
overseen the creation of the Guantanamo camp and staunchly
defended the prison despite widespread criticism from foreign
governments and human rights groups.


But Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and some government lawyers
strongly objected to Gates's proposal, with Vice President Dick
Cheney weighing in on their side, the newspaper wrote.


Although high-level discussions about closing the controversial
prison ended after Bush rejected the idea, officials continue to
study options for the detention of terror suspects, it said.


One official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a separate
dispute that has damaged Gonzales could mean Gates's proposed
approach might be revived in the future.


"Let's see what happens to Gonzales," the official said,
referring to speculation the attorney general might be forced to
step down due to a row over the firing of federal prosecutors.


"I suspect this one isn't over yet," the official was quoted as
saying.


The paper said it based the report on interviews with officials
from three departments or agencies of the executive branch.


One alternative to Guantanamo that was discussed would have moved
detainees from Guantanamo to military brigs in the United States,
where they would remain under the custody of the US military and
would be subject to a military trial.


As of December 2006, the Pentagon said more than 400 detainees
were being held in Guantanamo, including alleged Al-Qaeda
operative Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and 13 others from Al-Qaeda.


Human rights advocates in the United States and abroad have
demanded the detainees either be charged with crimes in US courts
or released. Congress adopted a law last year allowing for the
detainees to be tried in special military tribunals that operate
under different procedures than US courts or military courts-
martial.


The deputy secretary of defense, Gordon England, told the Times
in an interview that one long-term solution might be creating a
new international legal structure or a set of multilateral
agreements to handle captured members of global terror networks.


"I don't know the alternative unless the international community,
frankly, develops an alternative," England said. "It is not a US
problem. It is an international problem to be dealt with."

