

The 2007 World Cup will continue despite the death of Pakistan
coach Bob Woolmer, whom police in Jamaica say was murdered, the
International Cricket Council (ICC) said Thursday.


Woolmer, who died on Sunday at the age 58 after being found
unconscious in his Kingston hotel room, was strangled to death,
police said.


"This is not the first time that tragedy has visited a sporting
event but what we must all do now is to show how resolute the
game is by proving ourselves strong enough to move on from what
has happened," ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed said in a
statement.


"The best way to do that is for the teams that remain in the
tournament to play out a great World Cup, something that will
help put the smile back on the face of our great sport.


"By doing that we will demonstrate that cricket cannot be put off
by a cowardly criminal act," he said.


"And if the players and officials of all the competing teams can
do that, then it would be a fitting tribute to Bob Woolmer and
the contribution he has made to our sport as a fine player and an
outstanding coach at all levels."


Speed added that the entire cricket community was shocked by the
death of Woolmer, a former England Test batsman and South Africa
coach.


"When we first learnt of Bob's death a wave of sadness washed
over the whole of the cricket community," said Speed.


"That sadness has now been replaced with a profound sense of
shock at the news that his death is being treated as murder, and
everyone connected with this event will assist the police in any
way possible to ensure the truth emerges.


"However, as the matter is the subject of an ongoing police
investigation, we will not comment on it, nor will we comment on
the rumour and speculation it has given rise to over the past few
days."


World Cup chief executive and managing director Chris Dehring
added: "We have reviewed security arrangements in conjunction
with the ICC and local agencies and consulted with all the teams
and they have told us they are comfortable with those
arrangements.


"On that basis, it is up to the Jamaica Constabulary Force to get
on with its job while our focus now is on some great cricket to
come."


Confirmation that the Woolmer death was now a murder inquiry came
at a news conference here after investigators had called in an
American pathologist for a second opinion.


"The pathologist's report states that Mr Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxiation as a result of manual strangulation," Jamaican
police spokesman Karl Angell told reporters.


"In these circumstances, the matter of Mr Woolmer's death is now
being treated by the Jamaica police as a case of murder."


Former Scotland Yard detective Mark Shields, now Jamaica's deputy
commissioner of police, is heading the investigation.


He had said on Tuesday that the death of Woolmer was being
treated as suspicious.


On Thursday, Shields said that it was not known how many people
were in the hotel room at the time of the crime.


"It would take significant force to strangle him," said Shields.


"But we don't know at this point how many people were in his room
-- there was very little evidence of a struggle."


Among the many rumours being put forward for the killing was that
Woolmer was about to reveal what he knew about alleged match-
fixing.


But asked on Thursday if the Pakistan team had discussed the
possibility that Woolmer's death might have been linked to match
fixing, team spokesman Pervez Mir said: "Absolutely not. The
players as far as I know have not spoken about any match-fixing
or any match-fixing incident because there is no question of
that.


"I think they are more concerned about what has happened to Bob,"
he told Sky News.


"They are more concerned as to the reasons and of course if there
was anything else something might have come out, but match fixing
no, nothing at all."


Woolmer had close-up knowledge of match-fixing. He was the South
Africa coach when former captain Hansie Cronje was bought off by
bookmakers in 1996.


The 32-year-old Cronje was killed in a plane crash in South
Africa in June, 2002.

