

Bangkok's nearly century-old airport, once due to shut its doors
forever, is now set to reopen to domestic flights Sunday amid
concerns that running two hubs in the capital will be a strain on
tourism.


Don Muang, officially known as the Bangkok International Airport,
was one of Asia's busiest hubs until it was shuttered in
September, following the opening of the sparkling new
Suvarnabhumi Airport.


It is now expected to serve 140 flights and about 20,000
passengers daily starting from March 25, although most flights to
popular tourist spots like Phuket and Chiang Mai will remain at
the new airport to minimise inconvenience for international
tourists.


Don Muang will host domestic flights from only three airlines --
flag carrier Thai Airways International, Orient Thai and low-cost
carriers Nok Airlines and One-Two-Go.


"We are ready for the March 25 take off at Don Muang," said Nok
Air's chief executive Patee Sarasin, adding that all the
carrier's 29 daily flights will move to the old hub.


Noting the rapid growth of low-cost airlines, Patee said
reopening Don Muang would significantly relieve traffic at
Suvarnabhumi, which has a capacity of 45 million passengers a
year and is already nearing that mark.


Some 42.8 million people flew through Bangkok last year, making
it Asia's fourth-busiest airport, according to the Airport
Council International.


Reopening the old airport has proved a handy political device for
Thailand's military-installed government, which seized power just
days before Suvarnabhumi opened.


The new three-billion-dollar airport had been a pet project of
ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who once slept at the
construction site to push its development.


The junta that toppled Thaksin has reveled in drawing great
attention to problems at Suvarnabhumi, ranging from cracks in the
tarmac to inadequate toilets to security complaints, which they
say were caused by corruption under his government.


The new government initially called for reopening Don Muang as a
second international hub to allow for repairs at Suvarnabhumi,
but backed down after airlines revolted against the plan.


Outside analysts have cast doubt on how serious the problems
actually are, and tourism officials now worry that operating even
domestic flights from Don Muang will cause confusion for
tourists.


Tourism accounts for about six percent of the Thai economy, and
industry experts have urged the government to focus its efforts
on Suvarnabhumi, which was designed to be expanded to accommodate
more than 100 million passengers a year.


Reopening Don Muang will allow the government to put off
construction of a low- cost terminal at Suvarnabhumi and the
expansion of the main terminal.


"A single airport is the best option for Bangkok, in order to
minimise costs for airlines and passengers making flight
connections," said tourism industry analyst Suparerk Soorangula,
a former president of the Association of Thai Travel Agents.


"Having two airports would create lots of confusion among
passengers while airlines would shoulder higher costs for freight
management," he added.

