

Sweden's Henrik Stenson and Australian Robert Allenby shared the
first-round lead in the WGC-CA Championship lead Thursday, with
defending champion Tiger Woods four adrift.


Stenson and Allenby both carded 5-under-par 67s on a damp day at
the Doral resort's "Blue Monster" course.


Denmark's Thomas Bjorn had sole possession of third place, one
shot back, while Aussie Aaron Baddeley, Spain's Jose Maria
Olazabal and American Charles Howell were two back.


"I was putting good," Stenson said. "That's the key to my round,
and (I) kept it in play pretty much all day long. And when I was
in trouble, I managed to save myself."


Stenson was not sure what to expect from the course because of
the weather conditions, especially since he had never played here
before.


"It's always hard to have a figure in your mind, especially when
I haven't played the course before," he said.


"I just went out there and try to do my thing, hit the fairway,
hit the greens, play sensible.


"I think a lot of times you have to be smart and miss it in the
right places, if you do miss it, and don't short-side yourself in
these conditions. I hit a couple of really nice putts when I had
the chance."


World No. 1 Woods, who is tied for 10th, was a winner on his last
two visits to this course as well as the defending champion of
the World Golf Championships event formerly known as the American
Express Championship.


Trying for a "threepeat," Tiger Woods shot a 1-under 71 and is in
a 10th-place tie. Woods birdied his first, 10th and 11th holes
and signed for bogeys on his third and final holes. He needed 32
putts to get around.


"Pathetic," Woods said about his putting. "It's just weird out
there in the sense that I putt a lot by memory and what I've done
here over the years. A couple of the putts did the exact opposite
than what they used to do."


Woods cruised to an eight-shot victory last year at The Grove in
England to claim the American Express title. He has won the event
four of the last five years, including the last two.


He has won two years running at Doral course, in the PGA Tour's
Ford Championship. Those tournaments featured a full 144-man
field.


Woods has only about half as many competitors at the CA
Championship, since it is an elite WGC event.


The newly renamed CA Championship is one of three tournaments
Woods has won five times along with the Buick Invitational and
the Bridgestone Invitational.


Allenby also signed for seven birdies and two bogeys. He and
Stenson were two of just 15 players in the 73-man field to break
par on the "Blue Monster."


"It was just one of those days where I knew from the very start
of the day that, you know, I just have to play within myself and
just try and keep in control of the ball," Allenby said.


"You know, when it's blowing 20-25 miles an hour in your face or
whatever, it's hard to control it.  I did that very well.


"I just tried to hit three-quarter shots pretty much most of the
way in and really stay in control with the shots that I hit.
Just, you know, try to keep them under the wind and not really
allow the wind to affect them too much."

