

Defeated Democratic Republic of Congo presidential candidate
Jean-Pierre Bemba has taken temporary refuge in the South African
embassy in Kinshasa after a day of fighting between his guards
and government troops, the embassy said Thursday.


"Mr. Bemba has been taken in temporarily. He absolutely has not
made any demand for asylum," the embassy's deputy ambassador,
Kenneth Pedro, told AFP.


At least two civilians were killed and a dozen wounded Thursday
when violence once against descended on the capital Kinshasa,
which has been calm since fighting around historic elections last
year left about 30 people dead.


The United Nations peacekeeping force in the DRC evacuated more
than 600 people from an area of Kinshasa caught up in fierce
fighting.


Fighting broke out mid-morning near Bemba's home in the northern
Gombe district, where the sound of Kalashnikov and machine-gun
fire was followed first by that of rocket-propelled grenades, and
then by government tanks.


"He didn't feel safe in his home," said Pedro. "He wanted to be
able to continue working. He is our guest. It will be temporary."


"He is at the embassy. It is a temporary measure because MONUC
(UN mission in the DRC) is in contacts with both sides hoping to
find a solution to the current problem," South Africa's foreign
affairs spokesman Ronnie Mamoepa told AFP in Johannesburg.


Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel movements battled Kinshasa
until 2003, were vice presidents during a post-war transition to
democratic rule overseen by the United Nations.


The transition ended last year with the first democratic
elections in more than four decades. Joseph Kabila was
inaugurated as president in December following a second round
victory over Bemba.


Both Bemba and Ruberwa oppose the withdrawal of their military
protection begun a few days ago, saying a guard of 12 police
officers is insufficient.


Bemba called Thursday evening upon his guards to observe a
ceasefire and return to their barracks, but sporadic gunfire
could be heard into the night.

