

World records are set to tumble when the best women swimmers on
the planet plunge into the Susie O'Neill pool from Sunday as
performances are cranked up ahead of the Olympics next year.


The women's field boasts five current world record holders and
all the signs point to red-hot racing.


Australia's Leisel Jones is the undisputed breaststroke queen,
holding the 100- and 200m world records, and no-one is expected
to get close.


She says a personal best, in other words a world record, is her
aim whenever she dives into the water.


"I will be out to try and break world records but it's also about
having a good time," said the 21-year-old.


"World records are personal bests for me. I jump into the pool
every day wanting to break personal bests. You're always trying
to get the best out of yourself."


With Dutch star Inge de Bruijn retiring before the championships,
the 100m butterfly mark is in the sights of Australia's Jessicah
Schipper, who holds the 200m record and is hot favourite to win
that event.


Poland's Olga Jedrzejczak is her main challenger and there is the
question of revenge weighing on Schipper.


Jedrzejczak pipped her by 0.04 of a second at the last world
championships in Montreal two years ago in what the Australian
team claimed was an illegal one- handed touch.


"I have had a lot of questions if this is the revenge race, but I
just want to get in there and have it behind me," said the
Australian.


"I think once this race has been run it can all be put behind us
and we can concentrate on my normal racing."


Olympic champion Jedrzejczak is going through her own personal
drama having been sentenced to community service on Thursday for
causing the car accident that killed her younger brother in late
2005.


The performance of Germany's Britta Steffen in the 100m freestyle
will be closely watched amid drug suspicions when she
unexpectedly broke the world record at the European championships
last year.


Former record holder Libby Lenton of Australia is desperate to
regain the mark she held before Steffen snatched it away.


Lenton is known for her early speed but has been vulnerable to
competitors with stronger finishes, although she says she has
been working on it.


"The kick and leg strength was one of my weaknesses, but I have
developed my glutes a bit more and that's going to help in my
kick strength and fitness," she said.


"The kick is a huge move forward for me."


Laurie Manaudou holds the world record in the 400m freestyle
having finally smashed Janet Evans 18-year-old mark last year.


The Frenchwoman will be attempting to win an amazing nine events,
one more than men's sensation Michael Phelps.


Her focus is not just on winning the 400m free but targeting
Evans's 18-year-old 800m freestyle world record.


She also races the 50- and 200m freestyle, the 50- and 100m
backstroke, the 200m individual medley and two relays.


The best hope for the United States is Natalie Coughlin, the 100m
backstroke record holder and, like Manaudou, a verstile swimmer.


She will also compete in the the 50- and 100-m freestyles and the
100m butterfly.


Coughlin holds the nine best times ever swum in the 100m
backstroke and appears to be invincible although she was upset by
Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry in Montreal.


The 24-year-old sees the 100m freestyle as her toughest
challenge.


"I wouldn't be surprised if someone did something really special
in that semi- final, a world record or something," she said of an
event that earned her silver two years ago.

