

A top US State Department official on Thursday upbraided publicly
Argentina over taunts Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez flung from
Buenos Aires at US President George W. Bush during a recent tour
of Latin America.


"I don't think it was the right thing to do," the number-three at
the Department of State, Nicholas Burns, said, breaking US
silence over the matter.


Burns spoke at a gathering of the Council of the Americas, a
group of businesses promoting their interests in Latin America.


"I'm sorry to say that, Mr. Ambassador, but that's the feeling
(of our government) about that," he said, looking directly at
Argentina's ambassador to Washington, Jose Octavio Bordon, who
was in the audience.


Two weeks ago, Bush visited Brazil, Uruguay, Colombia, Guatemala
and Mexico, while Chavez, who claims Bush is the "devil," mounted
a road show of sorts to compete with Bush's message.


While Bush visited Uruguayan President Tabare Vazquez in
Montevideo, Chavez denounced Bush policies before protesters
gathered in a stadium in nearby Buenos Aires.


"I am sorry that that rally was held there on the same day that
our president was in Montevideo," Burns said.


At the March 9 rally at a football stadium in Buenos Aires,
Chavez called Bush "political dead meat."


Bordon told reporters afterwards that his government had nothing
to do with the organization of Chavez's meeting in Buenos Aires.


He also denied that Burns had reproached his government.


"I do not take it (as recrimination) because he did not put it
that way and secondly because it is not our fault.


"The Argentine government did not participate in those protests
that include third countries," he said.


Outside the meeting, Burns repeated his remarks in stronger
terms.


"It was unfortunate that this rally was held. Of course, no one
is going to argue the free speech -- (but) that day, same day the
president is in Montevideo, you choose, you decide.


"It seems to us not to be the correct decision. Obviously it's
the right of the Argentine government to decide if he wants to do
this.


"No one is questioning that. But we hope to have a more
consistently friendly relationship with Argentina and it takes
two countries to do that," he said.


Chavez "wants a big debate about him. He's a negative force, in
our estimation, in (the) hemisphere. He has espoused policies
that have failed in the past," Burns said.


After the Chavez rally in which Argentine President Nestor
Kirchner did not participate, Kirchner criticized the US
government and defended is relationship with Chavez, who "was
helpful" and who "came through with help when Argentina needed it
from Venezuela."


Bush did not visit Argentina on his tour.

