

Somali troops backed by Ethiopian tanks Thursday exchanged heavy
mortar and machine-gun fire with insurgents for a second straight
day in Mogadishu, leaving a trail of casualties and violence
showing no sign of let-up.


A day after at least 21 people were killed, according to a new
toll, including soldiers who were dragged and burned in the
streets, Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi ordered civilians to
leave areas in southern Mogadishu "for security reasons".


Thursday's clashes killed three people and the United Nations
called for an immediate halt to violence.


But as residents fled the south, heavy exchanges of mortar and
machine-gun fire broke out in the north, which had been
relatively calm up to now.


"Three people, one of them a woman, were killed after a mortar
landed in a house they were living in," said Ahmed Ali, a
resident of northern Mogadishu.


A total of six people were wounded in the area, with exact
casualty figures remaining unclear as several battle zones were
inaccessible.


"We are inside our houses and very scared. There are stray
bullets everywhere," said Bashir Mohamed, a resident of the
northern Gupta neighbourhood.


Doctors in the capital's largest Medina hospital said five people
had died overnight, raising Wednesday's death toll from 16 to 21.
More than 170 wounded people had arrived there since Wednesday
morning.


The latest fighting, in which Ethiopian tanks swung into action,
was sparked by a government crackdown on the insurgents, many of
whom are believed to be Islamists who have returned to the
capital after being driven out with the help of Ethiopian forces
late last year.


"The fighting in Mogadishu will not stop until we defeat them
(the insurgents)," Deputy Defence Minister Salad Ali Jelle told
reporters.


"We will pursue our aim of stabilizing Mogadishu. This plan will
not be hampered by a few individuals."


The UN Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia Eric Laroche told
"all combatants, whether in uniform or not, to desist from
further acts of aggression and to respect civilian life."


"This is a tragic situation," Laroche said in a statement
released in Nairobi.


In Mogadishu, the government ordered the Qatar-based Al-Jazeera
satellite television network, Somalia-based privately-owned
Shabelle Radio and HornAfrik Radio to stop broadcasting from the
country's capital.


"They have been ordered to cease operations because they violated
the ethics of the media by misinforming about the reality in
Somalia," government spokesman Hussein Mohamed Muhamoud told
reporters, vowing to enforce the order.


And in the southern port town of Kismayo, at least five people,
including three policemen, were wounded when gunmen hurled a
grenade into a police post, officials said.


Jelle said Al-Qaeda had named Islamist commander Aden Hashi Ayro
as its leader in Mogadishu, raising the spectre of a broader
insurgency involving foreign Islamic extremists linked to Osama
bin Laden's terror network.


Western intelligence agencies believe numerous Al-Qaeda
operatives are hiding within the ranks of the Somali Islamists, a
charge the Islamists vehemently reject.


Early this month an Islamist website released an audio-taped
message attributed to Ayro, who called on Somalis to attack and
kill Ethiopian troops in Somalia.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from powerful clans.


A small force of some 1,500 Ugandan troops is now in Somalia as
part of a proposed African Union peacekeeping mission of 8,000 to
help government troops regain control and enable Ethiopian forces
to leave.


The Hawiye clan, seen as the instigators of the insurgency, on
Thursday rejected the prime minister's order to leave Mogadishu
and accused the government of planning an assault against them.


"We see this war as an act of aggression," said Ahmed Dirie,
spokesman for the clan, from where the Islamists drew most of
their fighters.


He also claimed that the government had deployed fighters to
Mogadishu from the northern semi-autonomous region of Puntland,
from President Abullahi Yusuf Ahmed's rival Darod clan.


"The fighting will continue until the Puntland militia leave the
capital," Dirie said.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, creating a platform for a civil
war that has defied more than 14 peace-making attempts.

