

Ireland coach Steve Staunton insisted nerves will not be a
problem when his team takes to the field at Croke Park in a Euro
2008 qualifier here on Saturday.


Croke Park, a symbol of Irish Republicanism where Gaelic football
and hurling are traditionally played, has never before hosted a
football match and only last month played host to its first ever
rugby union international.


Staunton insists the magnitude of the occasion will not get to
his players, as it seemingly did to their rugby counterparts when
they lost to France 20-17 in a Six Nations showdown on February
11.


Croke Park is a natural venue for international sporting events
as it has a 69,000 capacity and Irish football fans will be able
to root for their team there twice in the space of four days -
against Wales and then Slovakia.


Staunton knows his side need six points from the two matches to
keep them on course for a possible appearance in the finals next
year in Switzerland and Austria.


"What goes on on the other side of the white lines won't affect
the players. They will have to get on with their performance,"
said Staunton who conducted a training session at the ground on
Tuesday.


"A lot of the boys born and bred here know what it's all about,
and once we get the fans behind us, the players will be okay.


"They were chuffed to be heading into the dressing room and all
that. They have enjoyed it, and they're very excited. Just as
long as we don't start soloing the ball and thinking we can play
Gaelic then we'll be all right."


Wigan striker Caleb Folan and Celtic defender Darren O'Dea have
received their first call-ups for the matches. The 24-year-old
Folan qualifies through his Irish-born grandparents and only
received his Irish passport on Monday.


Celtic's O'Dea, 20, was named in Don Givens' Under-21 squad for a
friendly against Holland on March 27 but will now be withdrawn to
take part in the two senior games, along with Darron Gibson.


The young Dubliner has made a major impression with the Parkhead
outfit after breaking into the first team in September. He
starred in the Champions League last-16 games against AC Milan
earlier this month.


Wales boss John Toshack, meanwhile, has called for big
performances from his top stars in Dublin.


Toshack turned the spotlight on Ryan Giggs, Craig Bellamy and
Simon Davies. With the vast majority of his squad being drawn
from the English lower divisions, Toshack admitted he is looking
to skipper Giggs, Liverpool's Bellamy and Fulham's new signing
Davies for performances of a lifetime in a Wales shirt.


And Toshack said: "I want them to forget about the Champions
League, forget about the Premiership, I want a high level of
concentration and responsibility from the three of them.


"I can set the side up with players from the lower divisions, but
I want these three to come up with the goods."

