

Somalia's transitional government on Thursday ordered the Qatar-
based Al-Jazeera satellite television network and two local
private radio stations to stop broadcasting from the country's
capital.


The orders came as Ethiopia-backed government troops battled
suspected Islamist insurgents in the capital Mogadishu for the
second straight day, as months-long violence showed no sign of
let-up.


Government spokesman Hussein Mohamed Muhamoud said authorities
had instructed the three organizations to immediately halt their
work failure to which they would be forced to abide by the order.


"They have been ordered to cease operations because they violated
the ethics of the media by misinforming about the reality in
Somalia," Muhamoud told reporters in Mogadishu.


But he did not give specific incidents in which the organisations
violated media ethics.


Muhamoud delivered by order from the National Security Agency a
government outfit that is part of the security machinery in the
weak transitional administration.


"They will be shut down by force if they disobey the order," he
added.


This is the second time the government orders the media houses
off air. In January, it instructed the three stations as well as
Voice of the Koran radio, to go off air for allegedly inciting
violence.


At least 24 people died and hundreds were wounded in the last two
days of clashes in Mogadishu and the government has vowed to keep
fighting until it defeats insurgents, who have also vowed to
pursue their attacks.


On Wednesday, angry residents dragged and burned soldiers in the
streets, a grisly reminder of the fate that befell US special
forces in the 1990s.


The latest fighting was sparked by a government crackdown on the
insurgents, many of whom are believed to be Islamists who have
returned to the capital after being driven out with the help of
Ethiopian forces late last year.


Since then, the insurgents have carried a string of deadly
attacks mainly in the capital claiming dozens of lives and
forcing at least 40,000 people to flee the city.


At least 1,500 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda have
arrived in Mogadishu and secure the airport, the seaport and the
presidential palace, but have not been involved in the street
fighting.


The Ugandans are part of a proposed African Union peacekeeping
mission of 8,000 to help government troops regain control and
enable Ethiopian forces to leave.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, creating a platform for a civil
war that has defied more than 14 peace-making attempts.

