

Asian champions Japan will launch their campaign for the defence
of the continental title with a friendly match against Peru in
Yokohama this weekend.


"The defence of the Asian Cup will be the marker by which we
measure the real capability of the Japanese team," said Japan
coach Ivica Osim, who led the former Yugoslavia to the 1990 World
Cup quarter-finals.


"We can consider it as a preliminary drill of the Asian
qualifying round for the next World Cup."


The Peru friendly will be a tune-up game for the Asian Cup to be
held in July co-hosted by Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam and
Thailand.


Osim said he wanted to have a match against a powerhouse like
Brazil or Germany, but it was not easy to set up fixtures.


"There is no team in the world that you can guarantee you can
beat 100 percent. You can not think you will win just because
your team is a national team. Accordingly, you can not predict
the result of the match," said the Serbian.


"That's what's fascinating in football, and it's apparent that it
will not be an easy match. We don't know the result yet, but it
will be a good chance to tune up. I hope it will be an elegant
game."


Osim called up Europe-based players for the first time since he
was appointed to form probably his optimum team with Celtic
midfielder Shunsuke Nakamura and German Frankfurt striker Naohiro
Takahara.


Nakamura said he felt cautious because of a fractured left little
finger he suffered last month, but Takahara was happy to be back
to the national side for Saturday's game.


"I don't feel pains any more. I can bend the finger," said
Nakamura. "I've not been playing with the team for a while. I
feel like I joined a new team with different teammates under a
different coach."


"Hopefully, I can find which direction our coach is heading for,
and I want to show my potential in the game," added Nakamura.


Takahara said: "Although I hadn't been called up for a while, I'm
very happy to join the national team again. It's an important
game, so I really want to score. It's my responsibility as the
national team's forward."


"There's a limit to what you can do. I'm not a superman. But I'll
do my best," added Takahara, who has scored 17 goals in 44 games
for Japan.


The Peruvians are missing Europe-based players led by Bayern
Munich striker Claudio Pizarro, Jefferson Farfan, and Paolo
Guerrero of Hamburg, all of them pulled out of the game.


Japan have never beaten Peru in three matches previously, losing
twice and drawing once.

