

Democrats Thursday resorted to the power of the purse to try to
pull US forces out of Iraq, debating an emergency spending bill
that would set a mid-2008 deadline for withdrawing the troops.


"As we begin the fifth year of this war, it is clear that the
administration's Iraq policy is failing and that we must change
direction," said Democratic House of Representatives Majority
Leader Steny Hoyer.


Debate began Thursday ahead of an anticipated vote on Friday,
with Democrats having added provisions to the bill linking
approval of the funding to a withdrawal of US forces from Iraq by
August 31, 2008.


Meanwhile, a Senate committee on Thursday approved its own draft
emergency war funding measure setting a March 2008 deadline for a
withdrawal of most of the US combat troops from Iraq.


A key provision of the House bill, which sets out a 124-billion-
dollar spending package for Iraq and Afghanistan, is to create
benchmarks holding the Iraqi government accountable for moving
steadily toward self-governance and control of its own security,
he said.


"It is long past time for this Congress to insist on
accountability and a new direction in Iraq. We will no longer be
a rubber stamp for a failing policy that has cost us so much in
blood and treasure," Hoyer said.


But President George W. Bush appealed to Congress to pass his
spending bill without any restrictions.


"Congress needs to get that bill out as quickly as possible,
without a lot of extra spending and without a lot of strings to
it," Bush said.


Republicans have criticized the bill, saying the Democrats were
treading on the turf of Defense Department generals by trying to
direct the course of the war from Washington.


"Under the constitution it is very clear Congress may declare
war, Congress may choose to fund or choose not to fund war, but
Congress may not conduct war," said Representative Mike Pence, a
staunch supporter of Bush's Iraq policy.


He condemned the measure as "fiscally irresponsible and
constitutionally flawed."


The White House also warned that plan had a "zero chance" of
becoming law and would face a presidential veto.


The spending and war-cutoff bill under consideration "has zero
chance to be enacted into law," White House spokesman Tony Snow
said. "It's bad legislation. The president is going to veto it
and Congress will sustain that veto."


The House bill faces a big hurdle in getting the 218 votes needed
for passage, because it is being challenged not only by
Republicans, but also by Democrats who have complained that it
does not get US troops out of Iraq quickly enough.


Pence and other Republicans criticized Democrats for larding the
bill with enticements to make it more attractive to fence-
sitters, and called for an Iraq funding bill "with no strings and
no pork."


The legislation includes billions in incentives for lawmakers
from agricultural states, such as 25 million dollars for spinach
growers, funds for Gulf Coast clean-up after Hurricane Katrina in
2005 and other extras that aim to make it hard for legislators
from the affected communities to pass up.


Top House Republican John Boehner derided what he called the
Democrats' "pork- barrel" approach to legislating as
"constitutionally suspect, politically charged."


Another leading Republican, Duncan Hunter, ranking member of the
House Armed Services Committee, slammed the bill as being
"detrimental to our national security and injurious to our
military" because of the August 2008 pullout provision.


"Is there a strategic rationale for this date? Nothing that I
have seen on the ground in Iraq -- and I was there just 10 days
ago -- suggests that Congress should force a precipitous
withdrawal from Iraq and tie the hands of American military
commanders," Hunter said late Wednesday.

