

Wallabies captain George Gregan said Friday he will play French
second division rugby after this year's World Cup, effectively
ending the international career of Test rugby's most capped
player.


Gregan said in a statement issued by the Australian Rugby Union
(ARU) that he would play for French side Toulon immediately after
this year's World Cup, which ends in October.


The statement did not specifically say Gregan would step down
from international duties after the World Cup but ARU chief
executive Gary Flowers said the 33 -year-old was "planning the
next phase of his career".


"We wish him all the best," Flowers said of the 127-Test veteran
who has captained Australia a record 58 times.


Gregan made his debut against Italy in 1994, with few at the time
predicting the Zambian-born scrum-half would go on to re-write
international rugby's record books.


He cemented his international spot with a try-saving tackle
against New Zealand's Jeff Wilson late in a 1994 Bledisloe Cup
decider to hand Australia victory.


Gregan was part of the Australian squad that won the 1999 World
Cup and was appointed Wallabies captain in 2001, after the
retirement of John Eales, leading his side to a narrow defeat by
England in the 2003 World Cup final.


Gregan sat out Australia's European tour late last year, saying
he wanted to keep himself sharp for this year's World Cup in
France, hinting at the time that the tournament would be his
international swansong.


Wallabies coach John Connolly, who has stuck with Gregan amid
criticism the captain has lost his edge and calls for Matt Giteau
to replace him, praised Gregan's leadership abilities.


"In all my years of coaching, I've never come across a more
professional player," Connolly said.


"His commitment to excellence has seen him stay at the top of
Australian rugby for more than a decade and his leadership
qualities on and off the field are reflective of his professional
approach to everything he does."


Gregan's departure for France means he will no longer play for
the ACT Brumbies provincial team, where he was a foundation
player in 1996 and which he led to victory in the Super 12 (now
Super 14) competition in 2001.


"He is renowned worldwide for his experience and professionalism
and will be greatly missed for his on and off field contribution
to the Brumbies and Australian rugby," Brumbies chief executive
Andrew Fagan said.


Gregan, who has earned a reputation for verbal persistence on the
field, was saying little about his future in the ARU statement.


"My sole focus at the moment is this weekend's match against the
Sharks, and the Brumbies Super 14 campaign," Gregan said.


"The Wallabies upcoming Test season and the Rugby World Cup are
also important goals for me this year, but right now I'm 100
percent focused on the Super 14."

