

Pet owners sued a Canadian animal food manufacturer over claims
the company's products killed several dogs and cats in the United
States, their law firm said Thursday.


"My veterinarian does not think that my cat will live much longer
than another day," one of the plaintiffs in a class action suit,
Amanda Whiting of Toronto, was quoted in a statement released
Thursday by the group's lawyers.


"If Menu Foods properly tested its food, my cat would not be
seriously ill."


Toronto-based Menu Foods last week recalled millions of boxes of
food, warning that some of its dog and cat food products sold
under various brands in the United States, Canada and Mexico,
could cause serious kidney problems.


Menu Foods said it lost up to 40 million Canadian dollars (34.5
million US) through the recall, but has not revealed the source
of the problem.


The law firm representing the pet owners, Rochon Genova, said the
class action was launched at Ontario province's high court and
said it had begun "an investigation to determine the precise link
between the food, kidney failure, other illnesses and death."


"Certain Menu Foods failed to implement quality assurance
procedures and failed to adequately test the dog and cat food
prior to introducing it into the Canadian market," the statement
said.


"Not only does a chronically ill pet come with a financial
impact, it can be devastating to a family," Joel Rochon, one of
the lawyers for the pet owners, was quoted in the statement.


Several people have also filed suit in US courts for the deaths
of their pets, including that of a cat called Phoenix in Chicago
and another called Samoya in the northwestern state of Oregon,
court sources said.


A couple in the US state of Arkansas have sued for compensation
for costs incurred by the illness and death of their dog Abby.


In the northern state of Wisconsin a woman also filed a complaint
concerning her cat Gumbi, who will require life-long treatment
following kidney failure caused by pet food.


Gumbi had eaten "Select Bites with Salmon in Sauce" and "Choice
Cuts in Gravy."

