

Head coach Orjan Madsen insisted Friday  his swimmers had regular
blood and urine tests for drugs and Germany had nothing to hide
going into next week's world championships.


The German team took the unusual step of devoting a large part of
a press conference here conducting a forensic defence of their
country's efforts to keep their swimmers clean amid doping
suspicions.


The German women, led by sprinter Britta Steffen, have been under
scrutiny since they broke three world records at the European
championships in Budapest last August.


One local report here this week cited an allegation that 250
German athletes had skipped 450 drug tests which it said had
damaged the credibility of Germany's drugs testing programs.


But Crista Thiel, president of the German Swimming Association,
said that instead there had been 4,600 out-of-competition tests
for all German athletes and of those 201 were missed tests.


"We are checking all these 201 missed tests, and two have been
checked already and the most interesting thing is that it doesn't
regard a swimmer," she said.


Madsen, who went on the front foot at a separate press conference
earlier this week to combat drug suspicions, Friday reiterated
his determination that German swimmers were doing nothing illegal
in the run-up to the world championships.


"We in Germany have nothing to hide, we want to be transparent,
we want to show what we are doing in this area and we know we
have to improve and we have to be tested more often than we are
at the moment," he said.


"But at least we have taken a pro-active attitude towards anti-
doping work and we are instituting different methods that we do
in addition to the work that national anti-doping authority and
(world swim body) FINA are doing."


Madsen also hit back at former Australian head coach Don Talbot's
claim that Germany should do more blood tests on its swimmers.


"He (Talbot) said he would have liked us to do more blood testing
and we do. We do blood testing on a regular basis," Madsen said.


"All our team was tested during our last training camps in Sierra
Nevada in Spain and Gran Canaria, both urine and blood tests for
our national drug testers.


"Our team was tested when we came to Australia, that was a
regular urine test, but we have instituted blood tests on a
regular basis in conjunction with our training camps.


"We have established a hemoglobin profile which I assume is going
to be the method of choice when it comes to detecting any EPO or
blood manipulation.


"All our swimmers have had their blood drawn and frozen which can
be used for further investigations into the future when we have
better methods to detect and which we can't do at the moment.


"I think we are doing more than just the regular tests from FINA
and NADA but we don't do enough, we need to be tested even more."

