

British police were set to question Friday three men arrested in
connection with suicide bombings on London's public transport
network nearly two years ago, Europe's first such terrorist
attack.


The three men arrested Thursday -- all said to be from Leeds --
are suspected of the "commission, preparation or instigation of
acts of terrorism" under the Terrorism Act 2000 and were being
held at a central London police station.


Two of the men, who were aged 23 and 30, were arrested at
Manchester Airport, northwest England, as they were about to
board a flight to Pakistan, while the third, 26, was arrested at
a house in Leeds, northern England.


Of the four suicide bombers who carried out the July 7, 2005
attacks, three were from the Beeston area of Leeds.


Under British anti-terror laws, they can be detained for up to 28
days, subject to regular court approval, before police must
either charge or release them.


Searches were also being carried out at five houses in Beeston,
including one on the street where one of the bombers lived with
his parents, as well as at a flat in east London. A search at a
separate business premises in east London was concluded earlier.


Fifty-two people were killed when four Islamist extremist suicide
bombers -- three of them Britons of Pakistani origin and one a
naturalised Jamaican -- set off rucksack bombs on three London
Underground trains and a double-decker bus.


The attack, at the height of rush hour on July 7, also injured
more than 700 in what was the worst-ever terrorist atrocity on
British soil.


Nobody has yet been charged in relation to the bombings.


The bombings were followed exactly two weeks later by an apparent
copycat attack which failed. Six men are currently on trial for
that alleged attack.


Commenting on the arrests, the government's independent watchdog
of anti- terrorism legislation, Lord Alexander Carlile said:
"Anybody who imagined that this had simply been treated as four
lone wolves, or a lone pack of wolves, on July 7, 2005, is very
wrong."


He told BBC television: "There is a lot of work going on. A
rigorous hunt is going on for everyone connected to the 7/7
attacks and ... nobody involved in those attacks can lie easy in
their beds without expecting police to turn up one day and arrest
them for very, very serious crimes.


"As to whether the people arrested today are involved, that is a
matter for a decision by a court. I know nothing about them at
this stage."


The police statement said that detectives had continued the
investigation both at home and abroad since the bombings, which
prompted soul-searching in Britain about the extent of Muslim
integration in the country.


Public questions were also raised about the increasing
radicalisation of marginalised young British Muslims.


Both the suspected ringleader of the bombings, Mohamed Sidique
Khan, and fellow bomber Shehzad Tanweer, said in videos recorded
before their deaths that British foreign policy, particularly in
Iraq and Afghanistan, was a motivation for their actions.


A May 11, 2006 report by the British parliament's Intelligence
and Security Committee said that Khan and Tanweer were "likely"
to have had contact with Al- Qaeda members during visits to
Pakistan.


The Metropolitan Police said Thursday they had always been keen
to determine whether anyone else helped bombers Khan, Tanweer,
Hasib Hussain and Jermaine Lindsay.


The government's official narrative of the attacks released last
year identified Beeston, and the social life around its mosques,
youth clubs, gyms and Islamic bookshops, as a focal point for
Khan, Tanweer and Hussain.


Shahid Malik, the MP for Dewsbury, which neighbours Beeston, said
the arrests were "reassuring," and showed that "the police and
security services will not stop until they are confident they
have brought everyone to justice."


Police said no further details on the arrested men would be
released.

