

Luis Aragones knows that Spain's Euro 2008 Group F match against
Denmark might be his last as the Spanish national coach if his
men lose in Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabeu stadium on Saturday.


"I would understand that the Spanish federation would look for a
substitute if we lose this match," said Aragones earlier this
week.


"But it would be their decision, I will not resign. However the
match against Denmark is one of the most important I've had as a
coach," added the 68 year-old former Spanish international, who
took over after the last European Championships in 2004.


The statistics tell the story behind Aragones's anxiety.


Spain currently lie fifth in their group. Sweden and Denmark are
unbeaten and first and second respectively, fulfilling their role
as Spain's main rivals to qualify for the finals.


However, Spain are also behind underdogs Latvia and Northern
Ireland.


A dismal start to their Euro 2008 campaign, following in the wake
of a lacklustre World Cup when Spain only progressed to the last
16, has seen Spain win just one of their three games.


The Spaniards managed an unconvincing 4-0 victory over group
whipping boys Liechtenstein before losing to Northern Ireland and
Sweden.


"We've been going through a tough time," admitted Aragones. "We
have to win at all costs against Denmark because we cannot miss
out on the finals. If we don't beat Denmark it would be a
disaster but my teams never think about losing."


Spanish pundits have already noted that these are similar words
to those uttered by Aragones last September before Spain crashed
3-2 to Northern Ireland in Belfast, undone by a David Healy hat-
trick.


The spectre has started to emerge that Spain may miss out on the
finals of a major championship for only the second time in the
last 30 years, the other occasion being the 1992 European
Championships.


Aragones decided not to recall Real Madrid's iconic captain Raul
Gonzalez and instead his strike force is expected to be
Valencia's David Villa accompanied by either Atletico Madrid's
Fernando Torres or Valencia's Fernando Morientes.


"It's not a question of who is playing or not playing," said
Torres on Wednesday, trying to diplomatically end the debate
about whether he should start or Raul should have been included.


"We have got to give back to our fans the dream that we can
qualify for the finals. We can't afford to lose this game and we
can't afford to screw up as a team again. We showed in Belfast
that accidents can happen," added Torres.


Worryingly for Aragones, the goals also seem to have dried up for
the once- prolific Villa, who has not scored in his last six club
outings.


Aragones also has a problem to resolve at the back with both
Real's Sergio Ramos and Barcelona's Carles Puyol suspended.


Valencia's Carlos Marchena has been recalled for the first time
since the World Cup in Germany last summer and he is expected to
be accompanied in the middle of the back four by Sevilla's Javi
Navarro.


Unlike Spain, Denmark are still unbeaten and yet to concede a
goal in their three Euro 2008 outings so far.


The 1992 champions have been preparing on the Costa Del Sol
resort of Marbella for nearly a week but are cautious about their
chances of possibly making Aragones unemployed.


"Spain have to be the favourites, they've got better players than
us. This is something we've got to admit," said Denmark's
Christian Poulsen on Thursday.


"With respect to Northern Ireland who are doing well, I still
think that it will be us, Sweden and Spain who fill the two
places in the final (standings)," added the midfielder who plays
alongside Navarro at Spanish title chasers Sevilla.

