

The steaming sands of El-Alamein, where German and Allied tanks
fought fiercely during World War II, are being readied for a boom
in tourism, but only once the land mines are cleared.


The potentially lucrative tourism industry on Egypt's north coast
is being cautiously developed on one of the most heavily mined
bits of real estate in the world.


"We are going to create a space for peace on this war zone," said
engineer George Zaki, showing off the verdant man-made hill of
the soon-to-be golf course and the spaces allocated for the
resort's luxury villas.


But more than half a century after the battles between Allied and
Axis troops in the North African desert, mines still pose a
threat to local Bedouin residents and a challenge to both tourism
and oil exploration.


When construction of the golf resort first began, a bulldozer
barely missed an unexploded mine, buried 50 centimetres (nearly
20 inches) deep in the rocky soil, requiring an intervention by
the Egyptian army.


While there are no accurate figures for the number of mines and
unexploded ordnance left by the warring parties, Egypt says there
are at least 20 million landmines buried in the area of over
3,000 square kilometres (1,158 square miles).


"Egypt is the country the most affected by this curse," said El-
Alamein's mayor, former army general Mustafa Abada. "We will
never be able to beat it without the help of the countries who
caused it and the United Nations."


There are very few signposts to warn against the munitions, Abada
says, because whatever wartime maps are still available are
hardly helpful, the mines having moved due to erosion and rain.


According to the mayor, "the worst ones are the Riegel mines
placed by (German Field Marshal Erwin) Rommel as he was fleeing
to Libya," after Allied forces led by Britain's General
Montgomery, broke the Axis line in Octobre 1942.


The battle that eventually saw the defeat of Rommel's Afrika
Korps effectively ended the Nazis' hopes of capturing the Suez
Canal and Middle Eastern oil fields, marking a significant
turning point in the war.


The absence of natural barriers in the desert led the British and
German armies to fortify their positions by sowing an
unprecedented number of mines during the protracted standoff that
preceded the battle.


Accidents caused by unexploded ordnance are still frequent in the
region.


Since 1945, 700 people have been killed and more than 8,000
mutilated by anti- personnel or anti-tank mines, according to the
latest official figures.


"Here, no family has been spared. There is a constant fear of
landing on a mine," said Abdel Moneim Waher, a 33-year-old
Bedouin, who had the fingers of his left hand blown off after
picking up a mine.


He was just 11 years old when he reached for the "shiny object"
while herding sheep, unaware of the danger.


"I received no compensation. The government is definitely more
interested in cleaning up the mine areas for touristic and
petroleum projects, rather than for the Bedouins," said Waher,
who is now employed by the municipality.


For energy resource exploration, in full swing since 2000, only
access roads have been cleared in operations financed by the
mining and petroleum companies themselves.


Plans to develop Egypt's north coast, whose beaches are reputed
to be among the best in the entire Mediterranean, represents a
shift for the government.


The pristine beaches were once the sole province of the country's
summer vacationers whose many holiday villages dotting the coast
are only used three months out of the year.


But the tourism authorities are now seeking to attract foreign
investors and turn the area into a year-round resort rivaling the
popular Red Sea resorts on the Sinai peninsula.


Emirati property giant Emaar's 1.74-billion-dollar (1.3-billion-
euro) deal last year to build a huge complex in nearby Sidi Abdel
Rahman was symbolic of Egypt's drive to turn the area into one of
the mainstays of its tourism industry.


"You will see, in two years, we will surpass Sharm al-Sheikh in
Sinai," enthused Adel Farahat, director of the Porto Marina
complex, a neo-Venetian tourist village further along the
Mediterranean coast.

