

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming was happy to reflect on a
highly successful opening campaign to the World Cup after his
side wrapped up a 114-run win over Canada in their third and
final Group C game.


"It's been a good week, we're really happy" said Fleming, who
contributed 66 to New Zealand's largest World Cup total of 363-5,
to which Canada managed 249-9 in reply.


"Even today, we were put under pressure with the new ball, Lou
Vincent hit some runs (101) ... and we've come through the week
pretty well."


The New Zealand bowling attack was put to the sword by John
Davison in its opening spell, the Canada captain racing to a
half-century in just 23 balls, but Fleming was happy with the way
his team stuck to the task.


"It was good for us to put up with that pressure in the first 10
overs, you can't ask anymore," he said, adding that the main
challenge for his team with the Super Eights ahead was to rid
itself of any niggles and last the course.


"We have to get back to full strength," he said. "We also have to
try to maintain a certain level of intensity and also have a
little bit of downtime, so it's a fine balance."


Black Caps opener Vincent, who came into Thursday's game on the
back of two ducks against England and Kenya, expressed his relief
at having finally got off the World Cup mark and avoid any more
badgering from his team-mates.


"Three ducks would have been a good start to the tournament,"
Vincent joked, adding that the 9:30am local starts on moist
wickets that offer seam movement made it tricky for the batsmen
sent in first.


"Batting in the morning is an important phase to get through,"
acknowledged Vincent.


"You try to pick the first five or six overs off, you have to
keep positive, minimise the damage and score later on."


Canada's Davison, who was eventually dismissed for a sparkling
52, said he was encouraged by his team's performance.


"We went from the word go, it was good," he said. "It was good to
actually get a couple to the boundary. It's nice to be able to
put the big boys under a bit of pressure.


"Next time hopefully we'll come a bit better prepared. It's just
a matter of us getting an infrastructure in place and maybe
getting some corporate or government dollars."

