

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer was strangled less than a day
after his team were stunned by Ireland in the World Cup, and
police are treating his death as murder, officials said Thursday.


"The Jamaican police are now in possession of the official post-
mortem report from the government pathologist, who conducted the
autopsy on the late Mr. Woolmer," Karl Angell, director of
communications for Jamaican police, said at a news conference
late Thursday.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


"In these circumstances, the matter of Mr. Robert Woolmer's death
is now being treated by the Jamaica Police as a case of murder."


Deputy Commissioner of Police Mark Shields said: "I would like
for the killer(s) to turn themselves in."


Shields also said police had seized all hotel records and
security videotapes.


Woolmer, a former England Test batsman and South Africa coach,
was declared dead in hospital after being found unconscious in
his room at the Jamaica Pegasus hotel.


The day before, Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup
following a shocking defeat by minnows Ireland.


Thursday's police statement followed reports in two Jamaican
newspapers on the cause of the 58-year-old Woolmer's death.


The Jamaica Gleaner quoted a "high-ranking police officer" as
saying Woolmer was found half-naked in his room at the Jamaica
Pegasus hotel, partially wrapped in a towel.


"A bone in the neck, near the glands, was broken, and this
suggests that somebody might have put some pressure on it," the
officer told the newspaper.


Malcolm Speed, chief executive of the International Cricket
Council (ICC), said the entire cricket community was shocked by
the circumstances of Woolmer's death.


"When we first learnt of Bob's death a wave of sadness washed
over the whole of the cricket community," Speed said in a
statement. "That sadness has now been replaced with a profound
sense of shock at the news that his death is being treated as
murder, and everyone connected with this event will assist the
police in any way possible to ensure the truth emerges."


Pakistan's World Cup players gave statements to Jamaican police
and were also fingerprinted before leaving for the resort of
Montego Bay. They were to stay there for two days before
returning home after their early elimination from the tournament.


However, the Pakistan team were furious that they were being cast
in some sections of the media as prime suspects in the
investigation.


"The impression is being given that the Pakistan team are
suspects. This is not true," said team manager Talat Ali.


"We are being interviewed first because we are leaving for
Montego Bay later this afternoon, but other people will also be
interviewed by police."


Before police confirmed the cause of death, rumors swirled of
possible poisoning, and even killing at the hands of members of
the criminal underworld keen to avoid exposure in allegations of
match-fixing which may have arisen in a book that Woolmer was
planning to write.


Team spokesman Pervez Mir dismissed the suggestions the death was
linked to match-fixing as "totally baseless and premature".


Woolmer's widow, Gill, had earlier acknowledged that the death
could be the result of foul play linked to cricket.


"I suppose there is always the possibility," she said in an
interview with Britain's Sky News television from her home in
South Africa.


"I mean some of the cricketing fraternity, fans are extremely
volatile and passionate about the game and what happens in the
game, and also a lot of it in Asia, so I suppose there is always
the possibility that it could be that."


After Pakistan had beaten Zimbabwe in their final match on
Wednesday, the entire squad gathered at the team hotel where
Woolmer died to hold a memorial service.

