

Steve McClaren has spent the week reminding the England players
how special they are but now the beleaguered head coach must hope
they go out and prove it against Israel here on Saturday evening.


Given the problems England have encountered of late in living up
to their billing, McClaren might have been prudent to manage
expectations downwards ahead of what promises to be a testing
Euro 2008 qualifier.


Instead, Sven-Goran Eriksson's former deputy and successor has
opted to raise the stakes by suggesting that the Ramat Gan
stadium is the kind of arena in which the bigger names in his
squad must demonstrate their worth.


"All the top teams have special players who can change games, who
will step forward when it is needed," McClaren declared breezily
this week. "That time has come for us."


McClaren's rhetoric implies the opposite, but the reality is that
a draw on Saturday evening, whilst being a far from ideal outcome
for England, would not necessarily be fatal to his squad's
prospects of reaching next year's finals in Austria and
Switzerland.


It would also be no disgrace. The Israelis, after all, proved
resilient enough on their own soil to deny France victory in the
qualifying for last year's World Cup, where the French reached
the final of a tournament in which England floundered at the
quarter-final stage.


A victory in Estonia and the point secured against Russia in
Moscow in this campaign provides further evidence of the battle-
hardened qualities of Dror Kashtan's squad, who only trail
England in Group E on goal difference.


England have not won a match of any description in six months and
supporters of a nervous disposition could easily be unnerved by
the absence here of first- choice full-backs Gary Neville and
Ashley Cole, through a combination of injury and suspension.


Jamie Carragher and Phil Neville will plug those gaps and
McClaren, whose gamble with a three-man defence in Croatia in
October contributed to a 2-0 defeat, was bullish about his side's
ability to cope.


"Circumstances and injuries will always dictate the make-up of
your side, but ultimately there is a hell of a lot of experience
in our squad and it is enough for us to go into this game," he
said.


Owen Hargreaves's return to the international stage following his
recovery from the broken leg he suffered in September should
ensure England's offensive work is built on a less flimsy
platform than was the case in Zagreb, or in the two subsequent
friendlies (a draw in Holland followed by a defeat at home to
Spain) which have further sapped confidence in McClaren's
stewardship of the national side.


The eye-catching dynamism of his performances at the World Cup
have ensured that Hargreaves will come straight back into the
side in the midfield holding role that Michael Carrick has filled
in his absence.


Ahead of the Bayern Munich midfielder, Frank Lampard will be
expected to provide the link between midfield and a new-look
front two of Wayne Rooney and Andrew Johnson, who gets the chance
to start an England match in his preferred central striking role.


Steven Gerrard will be restricted to the right-sided role he now
usually fills for Liverpool while the trickery and pace of
Tottenham's Aaron Lennon will be deployed to stretch the Israeli
defence on the opposite flank.


Israel look set to deploy West Ham playmaker Yossi Benayoun in an
advanced role, possibly alongside the Chelsea teenager Ben Sahar.


A broken rib has deprived Kashtan of attacking midfielder Yaniv
Katan and the veteran coach's preparations have been overshadowed
by a row over his decision to drop Beitar Jerusalem's Michael
Zandberg from his squad.


Zandberg has claimed he has been victimised for pulling out of
the national squad for a friendly against Ukraine and then
playing for his club days later while the local press has
reported that several squad members have asked the Israeli FA to
press Kashtan to recall the player.

