

They are not quite in the last chance saloon just yet but
European giants England and Spain face must-win games Saturday if
they are to keep their European Championship dreams alive.


Spain's situation is arguably the more desperate, with coach Luis
Aragones admitting he will almost certainly be lining up in the
dole queue next week if his side fall to Denmark at Real Madrid's
Santiago Bernabeu stadium.


But England's position is not a lot brighter following a draw at
home to Macedonia and defeat in Croatia in their last two Euro
2008 qualifiers.


Coach Steve McClaren has seemingly been working on the self-
belief of his highly-paid superstars, whose performances in an
England shirt often fail to match the impressiveness of their
bank balances.


And ahead of a trip to Tel Aviv to face an Israeli side whose
home form is formidable, McClaren has been trying to remind his
players how good they can be.


"All the top teams have special players who can change games, who
will step forward when it is needed," McClaren said earlier this
week. "That time has come for us."


England, who have not won a match in six months, are already down
in third place in Group E, trailing leaders Russia by three
points, second placed Croatia by a single point and only ahead of
Israel and Macedonia on goal difference.


And they have not been helped by injuries and suspensions, which
have deprived them of first choice full-backs Gary Neville and
Ashley Cole.


"Circumstances and injuries will always dictate the make-up of
your side, but ultimately there is a hell of a lot of experience
in our squad and it is enough for us to go into this game," said
McClaren.


Owen Hargreaves's return to the international stage following his
recovery from the broken leg he suffered in September should
ensure England's offensive work is built on a less flimsy
platform than was the case in Zagreb, where England lost 2-0, or
in the two subsequent friendlies (a draw in Holland followed by a
defeat at home to Spain).


Meanwhile, Spain are desperate to get their campaign back on
track having won one and lost two of their opening three games,
leaving them fifth in Group F and a whopping nine points off
leaders Sweden.


"I would understand that the Spanish federation would look for a
substitute if we lose this match," said Aragones earlier this
week.


"But it would be their decision, I will not resign. However the
match against Denmark is one of the most important I've had as a
coach."


The statistics tell the story behind Aragones's anxiety.


Sweden and Denmark are unbeaten and first and second
respectively, fulfilling their role as Spain's main rivals to
qualify for the finals.


However, Spain are also behind underdogs Latvia and Northern
Ireland.


The Spaniards managed an unconvincing 4-0 victory over group
whipping boys Liechtenstein before losing to Northern Ireland and
Sweden.


"We've been going through a tough time," admitted Aragones. "We
have to win at all costs against Denmark because we cannot miss
out on the finals. If we don't beat Denmark it would be a
disaster, but my teams never think about losing."


Worryingly for Aragones, the goals seem to have dried up for the
once-prolific David Villa, who has not scored in his last six
club outings.


Aragones also has a problem to resolve at the back with both
Real's Sergio Ramos and Barcelona's Carles Puyol suspended.


In Group D the top two clash in Prague with Germany hoping to
expose weaknesses in the Czech Republic's defence.


"We have had a good look at the way they play and we know where
their weaknesses are, we have to be ruthless against them,"
Bayern Munich's Bastian Schweinsteiger said.


However, that task has been made more difficult by the absence of
2006 World Cup top goal-scorer Miroslav Klose, who has a back
injury.


France coach Raymond Domenech has called on his players to show
their fighting spirit ahead of their trip to minnows Lithuania in
Group B.


"We have lost two of our last four matches and that is a sign of
complacency," warned Domenech, whose side lost in October to
Scotland during a Euro 2008 qualification match and against
Argentina in a friendly in February.


"Even though six months ago we were in the World Cup final, we
can't take the match for granted. I am trying as best as I can to
get the team to move on and get fired up for the new challenges
ahead."


The French squad has been badly hit by a string of injuries to
key players in the build up to the qualifier, notably in midfield
and attack.


Domenech will be without the services of Arsenal ace Thierry
Henry, Marseille's Franck Ribery, Patrick Vieira of Inter Milan
and Manchester United's Louis Saha.


Fixtures:


Group A


Kazakhstan v Serbia


Poland v Azerbaijan


Portugal v Belgium


Group B


Faroe Islands v Ukraine


Scotland v Georgia


Lithuania v France


Group C


Moldova v Malta


Norway v Bosnia-Herzegovina


Greece v Turkey


Group D


Ireland v Wales


Cyprus v Slovakia


Czech Republic v Germany


Group E


Estonia v Russia


Israel v England


Croatia v Macedonia


Group F


Liechtenstein v Northern Ireland


Spain v Denmark


Group G


Albania v Slovenia


Luxembourg v Belarus


Netherlands v Romania

