

Pakistan cricket coach Bob Woolmer was murdered, a police
spokesman said here Thursday.


"The Jamaican police are now in possession of the official
postmortem report from the government pathologist, who conducted
the autopsy on the late Mr. Woolmer," said Karl Angell, director
of communications for Jamaican police.


"The pathologist report states that Mr. Woolmer's death was due
to asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation," Angell said.


Deputy Commissioner of Police Mark Shields, said: "I would like
for the killer(s) to turn themselves in."


Shields also said police had seized all hotel records and
security videotapes.


The police statement followed similar reports in two Jamaican
newspapers on the cause of the 58-year-old Woolmer's death on
Sunday.


The Jamaica Gleaner quoted a "high-ranking police officer" as
saying Woolmer was found half naked in his room at the Jamaica
Pegasus hotel, partially wrapped in a towel.


"A bone in the neck, near the glands, was broken, and this
suggests that somebody might have put some pressure on it," the
officer told the newspaper.


Woolmer was declared dead in hospital after being found
unconscious in his room.


The day before, Pakistan were knocked out of the World Cup
following a stunning defeat by minnows Ireland.


Pakistan's World Cup players gave statements to Jamaican police
and were also finger-printed before leaving for the resort of
Montego Bay. They were to stay there for two days before
returning home after their early elmination from the tournament.


However, the Pakistan team were furious that they were being cast
in some sections of the media as prime suspects in the
investigation.


"The impression is being given that the Pakistan team are
suspects. This is not true," said team manager Talat Ali.


"We are being interviewed first because we are leaving for
Montego Bay later this afternoon, but other people will also be
interviewed by police."


Before police confirmed the cause of death, rumors swirled of
possible poisoning, and even killing at the hands of members of
the criminal underworld keen to avoid exposure in allegations of
match-fixing which may have arisen in a book that Woolmer was
planning to write.


Team spokesman Pervez Mir dismissed the suggestions the death was
linked to match-fixing as "totally baseless and premature".


Woolmer's widow Gill had earlier acknowledged that the death
could be the result of foul play linked to cricket.


"I suppose there is always the possibility," she said in an
interview with Britain's Sky News television from her home in
South Africa.


"I mean some of the cricketing fraternity, fans are extremely
volatile and passionate about the game and what happens in the
game, and also a lot of it in Asia, so I suppose there is always
the possibility that it could be that."


After Pakistan had beaten Zimbabwe in their final match on
Wednesday, the entire squad gathered at the team hotel where
Woolmer died to hold a memorial service.

