

The boss of French oil group Total was placed under formal
investigation on Thursday as part of a corruption probe into a
gas deal signed by the company in Iran.


Chief Executive Christophe de Margerie has been held for
questioning by a judge from France's financial police since
Wednesday.


In a statement the company said that he had been placed "under
formal investigation in proceedings related to the devlepoment of
the South Pars project in Iran."


A legal source said the judge had put Margerie under
investigation for suspected "corruption of foreign public agents
and misuse of corporate assets".


He has been conditionally released, but the source was unable to
say what the conditions were.


Being placed under judicial investigation is one step short of
being charged with a crime in the French legal system. It does
not necessarily mean that 55 -year-old Margerie is heading for
trial.


A case can be dropped if a judge is unable to sustain his
accusations against an individual.


In the statement Total expressed "its full support for its
employees and confirms that the agreements for the development of
the South Pars project were entered into in compliance with
applicable law".


It also said that the company was "confident" that the
"investigation will establish the absence of any illegal
activities and reaffirms that Total adheres to a strict code of
conduct regardless of the difficulties linked to its activities
and the environments in which it operates".


The French oil company is suspected of paying top Iranian
officials nearly 100 million Swiss francs (60 million euros, 80
million dollars) through two Swiss bank accounts to win a
contract in 1997.


Margerie was detained by French police on Wednesday before being
transferred to a serious financial crime unit a day later,
judicial officials told AFP.


He was interviewed during his time in custody about a contract
that Total secured with the Iranian oil company NIOC for an
offshore gasfield known as South Pars, the source said.


The French judge is partly relying on testimony given by an
employee of Norwegian oil company Statoil who revealed the
existence of a corruption system in Iran during an investigation
in Norway.


According to sources, money was paid to Iranian officials between
1996 and 2003 when Margerie was Total's Middle East director.


The oil group's chief executive is no stranger to controversy.


Last year he was charged with complicity with fraud and
corruption by the same judge as part of an investigation into a
French link to the "oil-for-food" scandal in Iraq.


Companies were said to have paid money to get oil deals from Iraq
while it was under UN sanctions during the Saddam Hussein years.


Several other Total executives and former executives, including
Rambaud, have also been charged as part of the "oil-for-food"
scandal.


Known in the company as "Big Moustache," Margerie was promoted to
managing director of Total in February in succession to Thierry
Desmarest who had overseen huge expansion of the group and is
president of the supervisory board.


Margerie studied at the elite ESCP business school in Paris,
joining the finance department of Total in 1974, rising to the
managing committee in 1992 and becoming director for the Middle
East region in 1995.

