

To look at, the tiny Iraqi army outpost being set up in a
deserted building in a rundown street in Baghdad's central
badlands has little going for it.


As forlorn as its surroundings, it comprises barely more than a
machinegun mounted on a small table at the doorway to a dreary
pock-marked building, two sparsely furnished offices and some red
traffic cones scattered haphazardly in the street to form a small
chicane for passing vehicles.


A few chairs next to the desk and bare mattresses in the sleeping
quarters on the first floor offer the only creature comfort.


But the very fact anything smacking of law and order is being set
up at all in notorious Sixth Street, in Baghdad's Karkh district,
is evidence that the tentacles of the Baghdad security plan are
reaching far and long, a US military commander said.


"This street is a faultline -- on that side we have Sunnis and on
this side we have Shiites," said B Troop commander Captain
Christopher Dawson of the US army's 9th Cavalry Regiment.


He was briefing his troops as they rolled down Sixth Street in
heavily-armoured Humvee jeeps on a vaguely sunny afternoon this
week.


"It will help restore confidence if there is a permanent security
presence here. Residents will get to know they are safer," added
Dawson, whose patrol chanced upon the new outpost as pickup
trucks were arriving with provisions and soldiers.


Iraqi army Lieutenant Ahmed Shihad, who is charged with
installing the outpost, seemed pleased enough.


"It will be a 24-hour patrol point and we'll place a sniper on
the roof," Shihad told the US soldiers.


The aim, he explained, is to offer security so that shopkeepers
and residents who fled the street when it became a frontline last
year in raging sectarian warfare between Shiites and Sunnis will
return.


"We want them to come back. We want life to get back to normal,"
Shihad said pointing down the pot-holed, garbage-strewn, street
and its long rows of shops and houses, most of them shuttered or
empty.


Dawson, a tall man with blue eyes and a commanding voice, greeted
Shihad and his small band of soldiers who were kitted out in an
assortment of ill-fitting uniforms, including from the Jordanian
army.


He explained that he and his platoon frequently patrol Sixth
street and they would try to do so more often in future to
support those manning the fledgling army post.


Iraqi and the US forces, he pointed out, were jointly involved in
Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law), an ambitious plan
launched in February to regain control of the city and quell
sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shiites.


"We may wear different uniforms but we're fighting on the same
side," Dawson, dressed in hi-tech military gear complete with
built-in two-way radio and water pouch, told Shihad, who was
sporting outdated American army fatigues.


The lieutenant, a slender man with a wisp of a beard, explained
that the decision to set up the post had been taken earlier in
the day at a meeting of US and Iraqi commanders steering
Operation Fardh al-Qanoon.


"We came down immediately, bringing all we had. We had to borrow
the traffic cones from a motorist," he said through an
interpreter.


"Now we need some rolls of razor wire to offer a little more
protection," Shihad told the US captain, who promised to see what
he could do to help.


"If I have something I will give it to him and if he has
something he will give it to me," Dawson said philosophically.


The two men swapped telephone numbers and promised to liaise.


Dawson and his platoon then drove off in their ultra-modern
Humvees, bristling with weaponry and fitted with sophisticated
radio communications, global positioning systems and Intranet
devices.


Shihad, leaning on the wooden table next to the machinegun, waved
goodbye as the Humvees navigated past his traffic cones on their
way back to Baghdad's heavily fortified Green Zone.


"Iraqi army track patrol point established," Dawson reported by
radio to headquarters giving the coordinates of the post.
"They're also putting a sniper in position. This should improve
security in the area."

