

European Union leaders gather in Berlin this weekend to celebrate
the 50th birthday of the bloc, but lingering differences on the
future of the union threaten to spoil the party.


The fete will kick off Saturday with a packed schedule of
festivities in honour of the Treaty of Rome, which was signed in
1957 to establish the European Economic Community, the forerunner
of the EU.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, still flushed with the success
of an EU summit this month at which the member states agreed to
slash greenhouse gas emissions, will be hosting the event as the
current president of the bloc.


The weekend is intended to whip up new inspiration for the
European project at a time when the bloc is mired in an identity
crisis, and offer Europeans a clear sense of what it means to be
citizens of the Union.


The centrepiece of the summit will be the signing Sunday of the
Berlin Declaration, which Germany has promised will be a clear
and concise "people's document" distilling Europe's shared
principles and values.


It is also intended as a first step out of a serious slump that
began in 2005 when voters in France and the Netherlands rejected
a draft EU constitution that was designed to prevent gridlock in
an enlarged bloc.


"We must launch a great movement that will leave behind these two
years of meditation and near-mourning that followed the French
and Dutch referendums," Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi said
this week.


Those defeats threw the bloc into a tailspin and Germany hopes
this weekend's declaration can focus the leaders' minds on the
way forward.


"The union with its 27 members needs a new foundation for its
work," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier told
parliamentary deputies Thursday.


"With all the different views in a globalised world, Europe will
only be heard if it speaks with one voice."


Berlin has carefully kept the text of the declaration under
wraps. But a draft seen by AFP included the goal of ending the
institutional crisis ahead of European parliamentary elections in
2009.


But the decisive phase of the debate on what a constitution or
other treaty for the bloc should contain will be put off until
May, after the French presidential election.


"We do not want to fight the battle over the constitution with
the Berlin Declaration," Merkel said.


However she is expected to sound out her fellow leaders on their
personal wish lists for the future accord.


"The declaration will not deliver the key to revitalising Europe
but it is a step in the right direction," said Marco Incerti, a
research fellow at the Centre for European Policy Studies in
Brussels.


The declaration will also include goals on climate protection,
internal security and regulating immigration, as well as a
mention of the euro, the single currency for 13 of the 27 member
states.


But the leaders will seek to paper over deep divisions within the
Union, including the pace of enlargement, the depth of
integration and the role of religion.


Berlin has fudged a consensus by not asking all 27 leaders to
sign the document but only Merkel, European Commission chief Jose
Manuel Barroso and European Parliament president Hans-Gert
Poettering as proxies.


Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek expressed disappointment
there has not been a real debate on the document.


"I have expressed (to German officials) our disappointment over
the absence of an open debate on the text which we still haven't
seen in its final form," he said Thursday.


Germany is also trying to bring the event closer to the people
with a packed weekend of festivities including opening up Berlin
museums Saturday night and staging a European Club Night at the
capital's famed discotheques.


On Sunday, the member states will have stands set up the
Brandenburg Gate serving up national delicacies.

