

England may be woefully short of strikers at the moment, but
Steven Gerrard believes supporters have nothing to worry about --
as long as Wayne Rooney stays fit.


The Manchester United forward goes into England's Euro 2008
crunch with Israel here on Saturday on the back of a strong run
of form for his club.


But Rooney will also be aware that it is some time since he
produced his best in an England shirt and he will be keen to put
that right when he partners Andrew Johnson in attack against
Israel and, if all goes to plan on Saturday night, against
Andorra in Barcelona next Wednesday.


Gerrard, for one, is confident that Rooney will deliver, and he
was particularly encouraged by the sight of the United forward
terrorising Israeli centreback Tal Ben Haim in United's 4-1 win
over Bolton at the weekend.


The Liverpool midfielder revealed: "I was watching the Bolton
game, watching Wayne up against Tal Ben Haim thinking 'you should
save that for England'."


While Rooney's imaginative qualities are undisputed, it remains
to be seen if he can forge an effective partnership with Johnson,
who owes his place in the starting line-up to the injuries which
have deprived manager Steve McClaren of Michael Owen, Dean
Ashton, Peter Crouch and Darren Bent.


Johnson's supporters insist he deserves his chance in the central
role he prefers and argue that his pace, mobility and finishing
will provide the perfect counterfoil to Rooney's ability to drop
slightly deeper and take defenders out with his ability to beat
his marker or pick a pass.


Yet doubts linger over whether Johnson's sometimes suspect first
touch and the nerves he has displayed on previous England outings
mean he will never really live up that kind of billing on the
international stage.


That debate will be closer to being resolved by the end of
Saturday night's match, but Gerrard stresses that it is not only
fellow forwards who have to work at building an understanding
with England's most valuable asset.


"Wayne has come into a bit of form of late, which is great news
for me playing alongside him," he said. "When I watch Manchester
United, I do tend to concentrate on Wayne's runs for when I am
playing with him.


"It is great to have him back fit. He has played really well for
England. He was fantastic at the last European Championships but
it was difficult for him at the World Cup because he was injured
and there was a lot of pressure on him because people expected
him to win the World Cup on his own.


"I don't need to tell anyone how good Wayne Rooney is. He is one
of the best in the world. He has a great future.


"It is just great to have him here 100 percent fit because he
could win us these two games on his own."

