

Malnutrition among Central American children is "a massive
emergency" killing thousands every day and compromising the
region's economic future, a United Nations World Food Program
official told AFP.


Pedro Medrano, the Food Program's regional director for Latin
America and the Caribbean, said that countries in the region need
only "political will" to deal with the chronic problem, which he
said is costing their economies some six billion dollars per
year.


"Child malnutrition is a massive emergency, because it is
jeopardizing the future of Central American countries and of the
Dominican Republic," said Medrano, speaking on the sidelines of
the Inter-American Development Bank's annual meeting here.


"We believe that when a country has a 50 percent level of chronic
malnutrition, we are talking about a national emergency, one that
does not appear in the news media, but which means that ever day
thousands of children are dying of malnutrition.


At the meeting, senior finance ministry officials for Central
American nations and the Dominican Republic signed a document on
Monday committing to eradicating chronic child malnutrition in
their respective countries.


According to the IADB, it is the first time the nations commit to
prioritize fighting chronic child malnutrition, and the first
time the region's finance ministry officials agree on joint
measures for nutrition.


"We are talking about a million and a half children in Central
America. This region has the resources. It is only a matter of
political will to prevent hunger among children," Medrano said.


Medrano cited a recent study by the WPF and the Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) showing
the grave impact how grave the situation is for Central American
economies.


"Our estimates are that the economic cost of malnutrition is
between two percent and 12 percent of gross domestic product,"
depending on which country, or an average of six percent for the
Central American region, he said.


"This is approximately an average of six billion dollars lost
annually by Central American countries due to malnutrition."


Proper care and nutrition of children at their earliest ages "are
fundamental to overcome poverty and assure economic growth and
the stability of the countries," he said.


Medrano drew a direct link between malnutrition and the violence
that bests much of the region, saying those who aren't cared for
early make their way eventually into gangs.


Violence "is the final stage of a process of social breakdown,"
Medrano said.


"There is no reason for any child to go hungry. It does not cost
so much, only 20 cents a day per child," he said.

