

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates warned Thursday that the US
Army's readiness will suffer if Congress fails to pass an
emergency war funding measure by the middle of next month.


The warning comes amid a battle between the White House and
Democrats over moves to attach a deadline for the withdrawal of
US forces from Iraq to the 120 -billion-dollar emergency spending
measure.


The bill has swelled from 93 billion dollars requested by
President George W. Bush's administration as lawmakers have
attached to it funding for other pet projects.


"Congress needs to get that bill out as quickly as possible,
without a lot of extra spending and without a lot of strings to
it," Bush said.


At a Pentagon news conference, Gates listed the possible
consequences for the training and deployment of army combat
brigades if the impasse over funding continues for another month
or two.


After April 15, the army would have to consider cutting back and
suspending training of guard and reserve units at their home
station, and slowing the training of units slated to deploy next
to Iraq and Afghanistan, he said.


Slowing the deployment of combat brigades to Iraq and
Afghanistan, and extending it for the units already there, could
follow if the funding is not approved by May 15, he said.


Gates said the nearly 30,000-troop buildup now underway in Iraq
would not be affected, but replacement brigades would more likely
be affected by the measures.


"This kind of disruption to keep programs will have a genuinely
adverse affect on the readiness of the army and the quality of
life for soldiers and their families," he said.


Bush has threatened to veto the legislation in its current form.


He urged quick passage without strings attached as he met with
leaders of so- called Provincial Reconstruction Teams operating
in Iraq. They are composed of military and civilian personnel
whose main focus is security and rebuilding work.


"The Congress owes you the money you need to do the job, without
any strings attached," said the US president, whose popularity is
at record lows in part because of the unpopular war.


"We don't want you to go into Iraq and then have unnecessary
strings placed upon the money so you can't do your job," he said.
"Congress needs to get their business done quickly, get the
monies we've requested funded, and let our folks on the ground do
the job."

