

Aiguerim Chynbergen was born four years after the last nuclear
tests in then- Soviet Kazakhstan, but the radioactive fallout
blamed for crippling her still poisons her village.


"It is hard for me to walk for too long. I can't even do
housework," said the 14 -year-old girl, who suffers from a
congenital double hip deformity that condemns her to a life
indoors. "I can't go to school anymore."


Aiguerim's family lives 20 kilometres (12 miles) from the
Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, where the Soviet military tested
about 500 atomic bombs between 1949 and 1991.


Together with other Soviet former republics, Kazakhstan turned
its nuclear arsenal over to Russia when the Soviet Union fell in
1991, but the decades of testing left a grim legacy: chronic
disease in villages like Aiguerim's, where the 2,000 inhabitants
can rarely afford treatment even when it is available.


"The dispensary only provides drugs for emergencies... and the
hospital was closed in 1991," said paediatrician Laura Medetkyzy,
who works in Aiguerim's village, Sarzhal.


The most serious diseases are blamed on the 160 bombs exploded
above ground before 1962.


"People have deformities, cancers, anaemias, cataracts, renal
diseases, pulmonary or cardiac" problems, Medetkyzy said. "It is
rare that anyone here lives beyond 60."


Radioactive fallout is only part of the grim legacy of Soviet
planning mistakes in Central Asia. Another is the rapidly
vanishing Aral Sea, which lies between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan
and was devastated by decades of pollution and poorly conceived
irrigation projects.


And the fallout of nuclear testing is not limited to a few small
villages. Dangerous radiation levels here affect some 1.2 million
people, nearly 10 percent of Kazakhstan's population, according
to the official figure.


"For this population, cases of cancers are 300 to 400 percent
above" average, said Boris Galich, the top state expert and the
deputy manager at the Institute of Radiation of Semipalatinsk, a
government-run treatment and research facility.


"It's terrible. The average age for (developing) cancer has
fallen from 60 to 40," he said.


The victims are entitled to disability pensions, but they require
a long bureaucratic procedure with regular appearances before
various committees -- and mistakes are common.


Irina, 58, who suffers from throat cancer, in January lost her
official status as a victim of the tests she witnessed as a
child, astonished by the spectacle of mushroom clouds rising in
the sky.


In December 2006, her doctor told her she needed a third
operation, which filled her with fear.


When she refused, "they told me I was not sick anymore and
withdrew my disability," she gasped, her voice broken by an
earlier operation that damaged her vocal chords.


Irina appealed to the NGO Ekho Polygon, which supports with test
victims, for help.


"There are fewer problems now than after Kazakhstan's
independence (in 1991), when the state had no money," said
Nadezhda Isanova, organisation's director. "But there are always
shortages."


The local population's nightmare is far from over, as each day
children fall sick or are born with deformities.


For this new generation of victims, activists said, compensation
is being kept to a bare minimum.


This is partly blamed on meagre government funds and -- critics
say -- insufficient official attention to the victims' suffering.


But according to Galich, correctly identifying those made sick
from radiation and those from other, unrelated causes is not
simple.


"There are many contradictions on what the consequences are for
future generations," he said. "It is not clear what is being
passed on to the next generation."

