

Major powers on Thursday made minor changes to a new draft
resolution toughening UN sanctions on Iran and readied the text
for a Security Council vote expected to take place Saturday,
diplomats said.


The 15-member Security Council met behind closed doors late
Thursday to consider changes made to the text agreed last week by
the council's five veto-wielding permanent members -- Britain,
China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus Germany.


"We don't plan a vote tomorrow but our intention is that there
should be a vote Saturday," Britain's UN Ambassador Emyr Jones
Parry told reporters after the meeting. "We'll meet tomorrow for
one final consideration. But the text is in blue," indicating it
is ready for an imminent vote.


"The sponsors presented us with a text that took some of the
amendments offered by South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar and left
out others," said South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who
chairs the council this month.


"We are disappointed because we made the amendments in good
faith," Kumalo said. "We expected they would give our capitals a
chance to look at what they could accommodate ... I don't know
what is left for my minister to do."


The draft under consideration would ban Tehran from exporting
arms, calls for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of
officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions.


The sponsors rejected South Africa's suggestions for a 90-day
suspension of UN sanctions to allow political negotiations with
Tehran and removal of the weapons ban and many of the financial
sanctions.


A proposal by Indonesia and Qatar to include in the draft a
paragraph recalling the goal of a "Middle East free from weapons
of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery" also was
dismissed.


The sponsors, however, agreed to add language underlining that
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the UN nuclear
monitoring agency, "is internationally competent for verifying
compliance with safeguards agreements, including the non-
diversion of nuclear material for non-peaceful purposes."


Their text also restated that an offer of generous economic and
diplomatic incentives made by the six powers to Iran last year if
it halts uranium enrichment "remains on the table".


But Kumalo rejected the changes as "cosmetic."


US acting ambassador Alejandro Wolff said: "We embraced
amendments that were consistent with the philosophy of the
resolution, which is built on a framework of two previous
resolutions and those that would enhance its clarity, that would
add to its value."


Wolff said those amendments "not in keeping with the architecture
in place" were rejected.


"We have improved the text," French Ambassador Jean-Marc de La
Sabliere said. "Our hope is that the text can be adopted by
unanimity."

