

Global warming threatens Canada's harp seals, protesters warned
Thursday, calling for this year's annual cull to be cancelled to
spare sea mammals already in peril from retreating ice used as
breeding grounds.


"A large percentage of the seal pups born in the northwest
Atlantic this year are dying as their habitat is destroyed," said
Rebecca Alderworth, director of Canadian wildlife issues for the
US Humane Society.


"We cannot allow the survivors of this ecological disaster to be
slaughtered to produce fashion items," she said, estimating that
more than 260,000 seal pups had perished due to climate change.


The government acknowledged the plight of the sea mammals, but
would not commit to a hunt hiatus.


"Usually, we would have announced a hunt quota by now, but
because ice conditions are poor, we're taking our time (to review
data)," government fisheries spokesman Phil Jenkins told AFP.


"We've noticed that the ice over the past four or five years has
been deteriorating and this year it's giving us some concern."


"We're seeing poor ice conditions (for breeding). So, we can
expect a higher than average mortality of seal pups," he said,
adding the quota is likely to be reduced from 335,000 harvested
last year, if the hunt proceeds.


A commercial harvest is usually set now.


But Fisheries Minister Loyola Hearn has delayed announcing a
quota as government scientists explore the impact of thin ice in
the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence in eastern Canada on harp seal
breeding.


Up to 20 percent of the herd usually nests on thick ice floes in
the region in February or March. But this year authorities and
animal rights groups found only slush and ice fragments too small
to support a newborn pup.


Animal rights groups have been out in force, stripping naked in
front of Canada's parliament in freezing temperatures, dousing
themselves in red paint to protest the seal hunt and holding news
conferences.


"We're calling on the (government) to take a precautionary
approach and stop this year's hunt," said Toni Vernelli of
Greenpeace Canada.


"Continuation of the commercial seal hunt cannot be reconciled
with the long- term conservation of the harp seal -- an ice-
dependent species which is already suffering critical habitat
loss due to global warming."


Jenkins countered that animals tormented by warmer temperatures
in the southern Gulf represent only 20 percent of the entire
Atlantic herd.


Ice floes in the northern Gulf and around Newfoundland province
where most of the seal hunting occurs is "fine," he said,
rejecting speculation the fisheries minister might cancel the
hunt this year.


In the past three years, one million seals have been killed as
part of the commercial hunt in eastern Canada, which animal
rights groups call "the largest marine mammal massacre in the
world."


Demonstrators in Europe and Canada in recent weeks denounced the
"cruelty" of seal hunting.


But Ottawa maintains the hunt poses no threat to the seal
population.


Fisheries Minister Loyola Hearn said in a statement last week
that opponents of seal hunting were presenting a "biased" view of
a practice that he called "sustainable, economically viable and
culturally significant."


Fisheries officials meanwhile said the Atlantic seal population
has ballooned over the past three decades to 5.4 million in 2004.

