

United States and Australia renew their intense rivalry in the
pool with local hero Grant Hackett and multi-talented American
Michael Phelps set to dominate the world championships starting
Sunday.


Hackett and Phelps are the headline acts as men's swimming moves
on in the post- Ian Thorpe era and they should grab gold in the
last major international meet ahead of next year's Beijing
Olympics.


Hackett is in line for three titles in the 400m, 800m and 1500m
freestyle, which is shaping as the fastest 30-lapper of all-time
with the potential of all the eight finalists going under 15
minutes to reach the April 1 showdown.


The Aussie is the only swimmer in history to win the same event
in four consecutive 1500m world championships stretching back to
Perth in 1998, but this year he may be vulnerable.


Hackett, the most-decorated swimmer in world championship history
with 17 medals, including 10 golds, recently relocated to
Melbourne from Queensland's Gold Coast and admits it hasn't been
his ideal preparation.


"It's not my best but I'll definitely be able to put on a decent
show and a decent performance and be competitive amongst these
guys," Hackett said.


Phelps is chasing eight gold medals in his quest to go one better
than compatriot Mark Spitz's seven gold at the 1972 Munich
Olympics when he competes in the Beijing Games.


He came up one short of Spitz's achievement at the 2004 Athens
Games with six gold medals and two bronze.


Phelps, who set five world records in winning three golds in the
2003 Barcelona world championships, is entered in the 200m
freestyle, 100/200m butterfly, 200/400m medley and the three
relays and is expected to be the swimmer of the meet.


"Every event I'd like to be the best in the world and I'd like to
go down as one of the best ever," Phelps said.


"This sets you up for what happens next year. What happens in
Melbourne will hopefully set up a good Olympics."


Phelps owns three world records (200m butterfly and 200/400
medley) among the 16 he has set in five years' competition. Only
Spitz (26) and East German backstroker Roland Matthes (18), hold
more world records.


One of the highlights will be his clash with Dutchman Pieter van
den Hoogenband in the 200m freestyle on Monday.


"I think he (Phelps) is capable of swimming under 1:45 and so far
only two people on this planet have done that and I'm one of them
(along with world record holder Thorpe)," Hoogie said this week.


"He's in good shape, breaking world records in the butterfly so
I'm really looking forward to racing good swimmers, and Michael
Phelps is one of them."


The Americans hold the whip hand in the backstroke where Aaron
Peirsol is the reigning Olympic champion in both the 100/200m
events and has cleaned up with seven world championship gold
medals.


American Brendan Hansen is the world record holder in the 100m
and 200m breaststroke and is likely to get his main opposition
from Japan's Kosuke Kitajima.


While Phelps looks unbeatable in the 200m butterfly, teammate Ian
Crocker has held the world record in the 100m event since the
2003 Barcelona world championships.


A tremendous battle is looming in the 100m freestyle next
Thursday with reigning world champion Magnini Filippo of Italy
under attack from Athens Olympic champion van den Hoogenband,
South African Roland Schoeman and British Commonwealth Games
champion Simon Burnett.


"I think any time from a new world record going from 47.6 to 48.2
could win it," Burnett said.


The Americans look favourites to take all three relays with
Australia likely to feel the effect of not having Thorpe in their
teams.

