

Raymond Domenech has called upon his reshuffled France squad to
find their fighting spirit for the Euro 2008 qualifier against
Lithuania in Kaunas on Saturday.


Expecting a tricky tie, Domenech has warned his players to avoid
being overconfident ahead of the clash with Lithuania, who are
placed a lowly fifth in the group.


"We have lost two of our last four matches and that is a sign of
complacency," warned Domenech, whose side lost in October to
Scotland during a Euro 2008 qualification match and Argentina in
a friendly in February.


"Even though six months ago we were in the World Cup final, we
can't take the match for granted. I am trying as best as I can to
get the team to move on and get fired up for the new challenges
ahead."


The French squad has been badly hit by a string of injuries to
key players in the build up to the qualifier, notably in midfield
and attack.


Domenech will be without the services of Arsenal ace Thierry
Henry, Marseille's Franck Ribery, Patrick Vieira of Inter Milan
and Manchester United's Louis Saha.


Juventus hitman David Trezeguet has been left out of the squad
altogether.


"He (Trezeguet) has been going through a difficult phase with his
club side Juventus. I want to give him the time it takes for
Juventus to be promoted to the first division so he feels
untroubled and once again operational," Domenech said..


Uncapped Abou Diaby of Arsenal, Chelsea's Lassana Diarra,
midfielders Samy Nasri of Marseille and Monaco striker Frederic
Piquionne have been brought into the fold injecting fresh blood
into the squad.


Available for Domenech's strike force up front will be the fiery
Nicolas Anelka, Lyon's 19-year-old Karim Benzema, Djibril Cisse
of Marseille and Piquionne.


The attack will also be bolstered by the only offensive
midfielder to survive the wears and tears of the World Cup,
Lyon's Florent Malouda.


Domenech has also called up fitness trainer Robert Duverne into
his technical staff but has rejected reports that his side are
struggling physically after the rigours of the World Cup
campaign.


Compared to France, Lithuania are relatively injury free.


However Edgaras Jankauskas, Lithuania's top scorer, is suffering
from a muscle tear in his left leg and is highly unlikely to
recover in time to play.


"It's the third time I've been injured this season in the same
place. I am very sad and not very optimistic about playing in
Saturday's match.


"It's the most important game of the year and I am injured, it's
infuriating," fumed Jankauskas.


Controversy hit the Lithuanian team early on, however, when
Egaras Cesnauskis refused his call up to the national squad.


The 23-year-old was overlooked after a four-match ban in 2005 and
following a disagreement with coach Algimantas Liubunskas refused
to wear the Lithuanian strip, despite being named in the squad
for their double-header.


A win for France could see them temporarily take top spot in
Group B ahead of Scotland if they fail to beat Georgia earlier in
the day.


However the table could be shaken up four days later when the
rest of the group play their second matches while France play
Austria in a friendly on Wednesday.

