

The world's biggest sperm bank, Denmark's Cryos, fears a proposal
requiring donors to declare income from their contributions could
put their anonymity at risk and prompt a drastic fall in
donations.


The tax measure has yet to be approved by parliament, but could
sound the death knell for the sperm bank, which has grown into an
international success in the last 15 years thanks to what it says
is the top-notch quality of its selection testing.


"The key to our success is the safety of our product and our
conservation technology, which reassures clients who are
concerned about the risk of contamination of AIDS or other
serious transmitted or hereditary diseases," Cryos director Ole
Schou told AFP.


Another plus was the fact that "Denmark is one of few countries
that respects the anonymity of its donors," contrary to others
such as Sweden or Britain, which also ban the import of sperm, he
said.


As a result, "40 percent of women treated in Danish fertility
clinics with frozen sperm from Cryos come from abroad, notably
Europe, and the number is increasing," he explained.


Now "they want to pull the rug out from under us."


Requiring donors to declare their income "would be a
catastrophe."


"Three of four donors have said they would stop coming to us if
they had to declare their revenues to the tax authorities," Schou
said.


Donors fear that babies born from their sperm will one day seek
out their biological fathers, though in reality, the chances of
identifying a sperm donor would be minimal. Being registered as a
donor does not necessarily mean that a contribution was used, and
if it was used it does not necessarily mean that an insemination
was successful. According to Cryos, only one in four attempts
succeeds on the first try.


In his office on the second floor of an old building in Aarhus,
Denmark's second-biggest city, Schou has been preparing a "Plan
B" to save the company he founded on his own in 1987.


Originally started to help cancer patients who wanted to freeze
their sperm before undergoing chemotherapy, Cryos, which means
cold in Greek, has since 1991 focused on providing sperm to some
400 fertility clinics worldwide.


It now exports between 70 and 75 percent of its production to
more than 50 countries, primarily to Europe and the United
States, and says its sperm has yielded 12,000 full-term
pregnancies since 1991.


It has annual sales of about two million euros (2.6 million
dollars), with 250 approved donors whose average age is 24.


Schou now plans to open a donors' subsidiary in New York on April
15, and is also considering expanding into Europe, Africa and
Asia.


Each day, between 25 and 50 donors come to the Cryos offices in
Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen, most of them students and 95
percent of them of Danish origin.


Donors are paid between 200 and 400 kroner (27 to 54 euros, 36 to
72 dollars) for each contribution, depending on the quality of
their sperm, and can earn up to 5,800 kroner (780 euros, 1,035
dollars) a year.


At the Cryos office, the decor is tasteful. The reception has
visible beams, colourful wooden doors, a Persian rug and a large
wall painting of sperm.


Jan (not his real name), an 18-year-old donor with dark hair and
an earring in his left ear, sat in a chair waiting to take his
turn in one of two soundproof rooms.


He entered the cubicle, where a bed is placed beside a small
night table. Pornography magazines are spread out next to a vase
of flowers.


He emerged a few minutes later, saying: "I just did a good deed
because there are so many couples who are unhappy because they
don't have any children, and if I were in their situation I would
really like if it someone helped me."


He admitted nonetheless that he donated his sperm "to get a
little pocket money too."


"There is no way I would declare this to the tax authorities
because I wouldn't be anonymous anymore. And I don't want a
throng of children calling me one day to say 'hi dad!'," he said.


Michael (not his real name), a 36-year-old blond, blue-eyed
mechanic who is also donating his sperm, agreed.


"I would definitely not come back if I were to be listed by the
tax authorities as a donor, with the risk of having my past as a
donor catch up with me," he says.

