

The United Nations on Thursday called for an immediate halt to
violence in the lawless Somali capital, where deadly fighting
between Ethiopia-backed government and insurgents showed no sign
of let-up.


The UN Humanitarian Coordinator for Somalia Eric Laroche told
"all combatants, whether in uniform or not, to desist from
further acts of aggression and to respect civilian life."


"This is a tragic situation ... Tens of thousands of people are
fleeing Mogadishu and civilian casualties are mounting daily,"
Laroche said in a statement released in Nairobi.


At least 24 people died and hundreds were wounded in the last two
days of clashes in Mogadishu and the government has vowed to keep
fighting until it defeats insurgents, who have also vowed to
pursue their attacks.


On Wednesday, angry residents dragged and burned soldiers in the
Mogadishu streets, a grisly reminder of the fate that befell US
special forces in the 1990s.


Residents say the fatality figure could be much higher since much
of the battle zone is inaccessible.


"Tens of thousands of people are fleeing Mogadishu and civilian
casualties are mounting daily. The dragging of bodies through the
streets is barbaric," Laroche said.


"This is a gross violation of international humanitarian law, and
these kinds of acts must cease immediately," he added.


The latest fighting was sparked by a government crackdown on the
insurgents, many of whom are believed to be Islamists who have
returned to the capital after being driven out with the help of
Ethiopian forces late last year.


Since then, the insurgents have carried a string of deadly
attacks mainly the capital claiming dozens of lives and forcing
at least 40,000 people to flee the city.


"The neutral and impartial humanitarian response desperately
required can only take place if there is unimpeded access,"
Laroche added.


On Tuesday, a UN convoy heading to capital Mogadishu was attacked
when gunmen set off a roadside bomb and then opened fire,
wounding three policemen. Two UN staff on board were not wounded.


The escalating violence has forced humanitarian organisation to
flee the impoverished desert country, leaving millions on the
edge of destitution.


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has been an icon of a
failed African country since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed
Siad Barre cleared the way for a deadly power struggle that has
scuppered more than 14 peace-making efforts.

