

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will unveil Sunday a declaration
aimed at restoring public confidence in the future of the
European Union, as it marks the 50th birthday of its founding
treaty.


The "Berlin Declaration", prepared by EU representatives behind
closed doors, will be two or three pages long and written in
language easily understood by European citizens.


It is divided into sections praising the EU's achievements,
noting its common values and its common policies, and looking to
the future, amid the institutional chaos caused by the failure of
the planned constitution.


It will be signed in the German capital by Merkel, whose country
holds the rotating EU presidency, European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso and European Parliament President Hans-Gert
Poettering, but not the 27 leaders.


A recent draft of part of the declaration seen by AFP provides an
idea of what the final document might contain.


ACHIEVEMENTS


Among the EU's successes since the signing of the Treaty of Rome
on March 25, 1957, likely to be referred to are peace and
prosperity in Europe, the single market, the euro single
currency, and the "Schengen" open borders area.


CHALLENGES


These will include confronting globalisation and preserving
Europe's "social model." Energy policy, climate change and the
fight against organised crime, as well as "Europe's role in the
world" are also likely to figure.


CONSTITUTION


The EU's moribund constitution will not be explicitly mentioned,
but the text will almost certainly refer to the need for the bloc
to find a settlement to its institutional woes before 2009.


"We are united in the common goal of renewing, in time for the
2009 European Parliamentary elections, the common foundation on
which the European Union is built," said the draft, which is
subject to change.


ENLARGEMENT


The draft makes no clear reference to enlargement -- a process
that countries like France and the Netherlands see as diluting
Europe's identity, while Britain and Poland see it as an
opportunity to export democracy and prosperity. The foreign
minister of Turkey, a candidate for EU membership, has voiced
regret that none of the aspiring members have been invited to
Berlin.


RELIGION


Officials have said that no mention of religion will figure in
the declaration, despite pressure to have a reference to Europe's
"Judeo-Christian roots" made in it.

