

Ricky Ponting and Graeme Smith have more than one thing in common
at the World Cup.


They are not only aggressive batsmen and captains, but also lead
from the front.


On Saturday, both men will be in the thick of things as defending
champions Australia lock horns with their bitter and closest
Group A rivals South Africa who displaced them as world number
one last month.


Ponting took just one game to remind bowlers that they would
struggle to get his wicket, hammering a century against Scotland
here to give his team a flying start to their dream of achieving
a hat-trick of World Cup titles.


The 32-year-old Ponting, six years older than his South African
counterpart and with more experience, may not have the services
of key all-rounder Andrew Symonds but it hasn't affected his
team's lofty standards.


Ponting has bene here before.


At the 2003 World Cup, held in Smith's country, he lost match-
winning leg- spinner Shane Warne to a doping ban on the eve of
their first match and then ace paceman Jason Gillespie once the
tournament had got underway.


It was a tribute to Ponting's leadership qualities that his team
remained undefeated and he himself played a key role in the
final, smashing a belligerent century against India to help
Australia to a second successive title.


Ponting was a let down when Australia lost the Ashes to England
two years ago but since then his form has been phenomenal.


Former Australian captain Bob Simpson said Ponting's 12-month
batting exploits, with the Ashes safely regained, demand
comparison with Sir Don Bradman.


"The demands of captaincy and the strain that it imposes has seen
the decline of many a fine batsman but not Ponting," said
Simpson.


"Smith, who has had a dreadful run in Tests against Australia,
both in Australia and at home, suffered."


Smith was not in the best of form in the lead-up to the World
Cup.


But he hit 67 and 91 against Scotland and the Netherlands
respectively and now awaits the Australian bowling attack who, as
is their tradition, target the skipper.


The last 18 months have seen South Africa achieving good results,
and Smith's leadership role has played its part.


Former school pal, Ryan Watson of Scotland, found Smith in good
stead.


"He looks to be in good form and happier with himself. He looks a
lot more mature and comfortable in the role. He comes hard at the
bowlers and he is likely to be a crucial factor in this World
Cup," said Watson.


Both Ponting and Smith, who was promoted to the captaincy after
the last World Cup in 2003 at the age of 23, are adept at man
management.


While Ponting has defied calls from old campaigner Glenn McGrath
to be given the new ball, Smith has tackled his predecessor Shaun
Pollock in the best possible manner and has brought the best out
of him.


The aggression Smith has infused in his team led them to achieve
the highest run-chase of 434 at Johannesburg in March last year
against the Australians.


Saturday's clash will not only be a tussle between two seasoned
and proud teams, but will also test who is the better general of
his army.

