

Leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
should have the political will to adopt a set of sweeping reforms
to make the 10-nation grouping more disciplined and dynamic,
Singapore's deputy prime minister Shanmugam Jayakumar said here
Thursday.


He said that an ASEAN charter currently being drafted has
recommendations that could help overcome the grouping's "biggest
problem" of implementing its own decisions with a system of
monitoring compliance by member states.


In cases where obligations are not honored, he said, a dispute
settlement mechanism has been proposed with leaders having powers
to impose sanctions "to address non-compliance," including
expulsion "in extreme cases."


Jayakumar, a former long-serving foreign minister, was a leading
member of the so-called Eminent Persons Group that proposed a set
of recommendations for the charter, now being evaluated by a task
force expected to submit a final draft to ASEAN leaders ahead of
the bloc's annual summit in Singapore in November.


"We have made far-reaching recommendations," he said. "Now the
issue is: Do the leaders have the political resolve to adopt
these recommendations and translate them into a charter?" he told
a forum at the US State Department in Washington held in
conjunction with the 30th anniversay of US-ASEAN relations.


He said that if about 80 percent of the recommendations of his
group was adopted "then we will see ASEAN in a better position --
more disciplined and moving more to a rules-based organization
and positioning itself better to deal with challenges of the
coming decade."


The charter is one of the cornerstones of an ambitious plan to
turn the 40-year- old ASEAN into a rules-based bloc along the
lines of the European Union, in what would mark a radical change
in regional affairs.


ASEAN members -- Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam --
traditionally operate by consensus and keep out of each other's
affairs.


Reflecting the sensitive exercise in drawing up the
recommendations, Jayakumar told the forum that the group avoided
using the "sanctions" word in its report.


"Well, you won't find the word 'sanctions' in the report because
there were some members who felt we shouldn't use this word but
myself and other lawyers in the group ... formulated another set
of words which achieve the same result," he said.


Another critical question confronted by his group was whether to
retain its traditional consensus-style decision making and non-
interference policy.


Jayakumar said rapid response was essential "in today's world of
fast-developing events and crises.


"While consensus can be retained for more critical, sensitive
areas like the foreign policy, security areas," ASEAN must be
prepared to "take votes by majority" in other cases, he said.


He said the principle of non-interference "should not impede
ASEAN's ability to respond to major transnational events which
require concerted regional efforts" and "may have to be adjusted
where the occasion arises."


On US-ASEAN relations, Jayakumar said ASEAN looked forward to
continued US engagement, which he added had led to greater
stability in the region, and called for a special summit meeting
between leaders of the grouping and US President George W. Bush
this year to commemorate the 30th anniversary of ties.


"The fact that we have celebrated 30 years of these relations,
our hope is it would lead to a commemorative summit that would
signal very strongly that the United States is a key player in
the region, key player for ASEAN for mutual benefit," he said.


ASEAN held a summit to mark 30 years of ties with Japan in 2004
and another summit with China last year to commemorate 10 years
of ties with the Asian giant.


There seems to be an evolving consensus within ASEAN for
Singapore to hold the commemorative summit this year but
Washington has yet to make a final decision.


The United States is believed to prefer Malaysia among five
preliminary venues it considered, including Washington, New York,
Hawaii and Singapore, according to diplomats.


Bush visited Singapore just before attending the APEC summit in
Vietnam in November last year and the diplomats said Malaysia was
ideal because no American president had visited the country since
President Lyndon Johnson's trip to Kuala Lumpur more than 40
years ago.

