

Basque radicals on Thursday said they wanted to see a
multilateral and non- violent peace settlement as they blamed the
Spanish government for the current impasse in the peace process.


The radicals from Batasuna, the banned political wing of armed
group ETA, accused Madrid of not seizing the opportunity of last
year's now aborted ceasefire.


A December 30 bombing in Madrid shattered the ceasefire which ETA
had announced on March 22, 2006 after nine months, during which
the Socialist government had attempted to inch towards a
negotiated settlement of a four-decade conflict that cost some
800 lives.


The government failed to fulfil "one by one the commitments" it
made to pro- independence Basques when the ceasefire began, said
Batasuna representative Pernando Barrena.


Nonetheless, "the historic opportunity remains open" to create a
negotiated settlement, Barrena told reporters in the Basque city
of San Sebastian.


Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said the
December 30 bombing had ended his efforts to negotiate peace and
further tension came Wednesday when Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi
was brought before Spain's high court to answer charges of
"glorifying terrorism."


However, the prosecution retracted the changes and freed Otegi,
angering the right-wing opposition Popular Party.


That infuriated conservatives and some 2,000 people demonstrated
Thursday night in Madrid against the decision.


Earlier in the week, Otegi, while not condemning ETA attacks, had
appeared to distance himself from the group by saying violent
struggle was not the way to obtain independence, instead pleading
for "democratic means."


Barrena went further, saying that "multilateral non-violence is
totally necessary to allow a dialogue and political negotiation
and, above all, a final political accord."


The conciliatory language comes with Batasuna, which the Spanish
judiciary banned in 2003 over its alleged links to ETA, looking
for a chance to field candidates in May 27 municipal elections.

