

China's choice of a former ambassador with personal ties to the
Bush family as its new foreign minister shows the priority
Beijing places on its relationship with Washington, analysts
said.


Yang Jiechi, who turns 57 next month, was ambassador to
Washington from 2001 to 2005, and he has spent most of his
diplomatic career focused on China's most important strategic
relationship.


Beijing will call on his expertise in handling that relationship,
which is marked by an increasing economic interdependence but
still dogged by stubborn tensions on trade, human rights and
China's growing presence in the world.


"This won't change Sino-US relations, but since (Yang) was
ambassador to the US, he knows a lot about the relationship
between the two countries," said Niu Jun, a professor with Peking
University's School of International Studies.


"It will help China handle issues between China and the US."


A Shanghai native who has served since 2005 as one of seven vice
foreign ministers, Yang replaces 66-year-old Li Zhaoxing, who
stepped down after four years in the post.


Yang has a reputation as a pragmatic and competent diplomat, but
his longtime familiarity with the Bush family may have also
played a part in his selection, according to observers.


Then a junior foreign ministry official, Yang in the late 1970s
travelled with former US president George H.W. Bush, who was
stationed in Beijing, on trips to some of China's most remote
regions.


Later, as a diplomat in Washington during Bush Sr.'s term as
president, he was rewarded with an invitation to the White House,
a gesture not normally bestowed on diplomats below ambassadorial
level.


Li was also an ambassador to Washington before becoming foreign
minister, noted Jin Linbo, a researcher from the Chinese Academy
of Social Sciences, who said it was an important pattern.


"Both Yang Jiechi and Li Zhaoxing used to be the ambassador to
the United Sttates, that means China attaches importance to the
US relationship," Jin said.


The Sino-US relationship is regularly strained by a range of
disagreements between the world's reigning superpower and the
rising power in the east, and Yang takes the post with those
strains clearly evident.


US officials have repeatedly expressed concerns over a dramatic
expansion of China's military and a recent Chinese test of a
satellite-killing missile, as well as an escalating bilateral
trade imbalance.


Although they cooperated to reach a six-nation deal on
dismantling North Korea's nuclear programmes, the two sides still
differ on other international approaches to such issues as Iran's
nuclear programme and Sudan.


Earlier this month the United States also took the unusual step
of dragging China to the World Trade Organisation over widespread
Chinese piracy of US-made products, abandoning diplomacy in
favour of confrontation.


Yang knows these tensions well, having served as his nation's top
negotiator after a US surveillance plane collided with a Chinese
fighter jet on China's Hainan island, causing a major spat
between the two nations.


Li received mixed reviews for his performance as a diplomat and
for a lack of polish, said Joseph Cheng, an expert in Chinese
politics at the City University of Hong Kong.


Yang, on the other hand, appears to reflect a bid by current
President Hu Jintao to reinvigorate key ministries with younger,
more competent functionaries with strong professional
backgrounds, he said.


"Li has been rather lacklustre. In general, though, people think
Yang is quite competent and low-key. That is what President Hu
favours," Cheng said.

