

Japanese mobile phone giant NTT DoCoMo said Friday its net profit
dropped more than 25 percent in the year to March as it lost out
to stiff competition and spent heavily on upgrading its network.


Japan's leading mobile company has been hit by the fierce battle
for subscribers since Japan's introduction in October of "number
portability" -- which lets customers switch carriers without
changing their numbers.


NTT DoCoMo Inc. was a pioneer of third-generation (3G) services
but has been spending heavily to improve its infrastructure.


It said its net profit fell 25.1 percent to 457.28 billion yen
(3.84 billion dollars) in the 12 months to March.


"On the whole, we lost 630,000 subscriptions in the year to
March, which isn't really a good result," company president Masao
Nakamura conceded.


"The reason is clear. Our customers left us either over the
weakness of the 3G network or the expensive fees," he told a news
conference.


"We've been frantically strengthening our network but it is
difficult to erase our customers' first impression that the
network of the FOMA (service) is weak," he said.


DoCoMo said its operating profit fell 7.1 percent to 773.52
billion yen as it increased spending on constructing network
stations.


Pretax profit dropped 18.8 percent to 772.94 billion yen due to a
lack of the one-off capital gains it had in the previous year
when it sold shares in Hutchison 3G UK Holdings and KPN Mobile.


Sales inched up 0.5 percent to 7.79 trillion yen.


DoCoMo's results contrast with second-ranked rival KDDI, which
said Thursday its operating profit was up nine percent in the
year as it benefitted from number portability.


For the year to March 2008, DoCoMo forecast a 4.1 percent
increase in net profit at 476 billion yen. Operating profit is
seen rising 0.8 percent to 780 billion yen on sales of 4.73
trillion yen, down 1.3 percent.


DoCoMo said it would look to expand overseas markets for its
popular i-mode service of mobile Internet service.


"We need to think about strategy in Asia, as growth in the
domestic market is limited," Nakamura said.


"Capital alliances would be another future option to consider,"
he added.

