

President Vladimir Putin's threat to remove Russia from a key
Soviet-era arms treaty is more than just Cold War-style rhetoric
and could presage a redrawing of the European security map,
analysts said Friday.


Putin's warning on Thursday that Russia might suspend
participation in the Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty
raised the stakes in an increasingly bad-tempered debate over the
military balance across the continent.


"Russia has switched to the language of ultimatums," Kommersant
daily newspaper wrote. Putin "demonstrated that he is ready to
step up from words to deeds."


Since 1990 the CFE treaty has imposed strict limits on deployment
of tanks, troops and other forces in countries belonging to NATO
and to what was then still the Soviet-dominated Warsaw Pact. The
deal brought a certain degree of predictability and trust to a
divided continent.


Putin is now threatening to tear up the treaty unless all NATO
countries ratify a revised, post-Soviet version struck in 1999.
NATO members counter they cannot do so because Russia, despite
ratifying, is violating its commitments by keeping troops in the
former Soviet reupblics of Georgia and Moldova.


The CFE row is at the heart of a complex and accelerating shift
in what was once the frozen landscape of an East-West military
standoff.


Not only has NATO moved up to Russia's borders in the last 15
years, taking in a swathe from Bulgaria to Estonia, but none of
these new members are in the CFE at all.


That means countries like the three ex-Soviet Baltic states are
theoretically open to new NATO deployments, a fact some Russians
think makes the CFE worse than obsolete.


"This is a real threat to our national security," the state-run
newspaper Rossiikaya Gazeta wrote.


Washington and its allies devote major diplomatic effort to
persuading Moscow of their peaceful intentions, but under Putin
Russia has become increasingly suspicious.


The chief bugbear now is a US plan to base a limited anti-missile
system in Poland and the Czech Republic, two former Warsaw Pact
territories that are now in NATO.


According to Washington the shield would be aimed only at minor
military powers such as Iran and could have no effect against
Russia's enormous missile arsenal. But Moscow describes the
system as the advance guard of a creeping NATO advance on
Russia's frontier.


"Ludicrous," US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said
Wednesday in Oslo after hearing Moscow's complaint, her comment
highlighting growing frustration on both sides.


Czech President Vaclav Klaus was to repeat NATO's reassurances
during talks with Putin in Moscow on Friday.


But analysts believe that Putin is drawing a red line on the
anti-missile deployment and that his threat to abandon the CFE
treaty must be taken seriously.


"The reason for the appearance of these kinds of ideas from the
Russian leadership are obvious," RBK daily wrote. "NATO is de
facto using the situation around the treaty for the expansion of
its troops and the moving of bases up to Russia's borders."


The respected daily quoted a Kremlin source saying that "in fact
there is nothing left to talk about.


"The US is setting up anti-missile defence in eastern Europe,
regardless of what Moscow says or does. Putin has also stated
Russia's position as clearly as possible. There is no compromise.
All we can offer the Czech president is coffee."


Christopher Langton, a defence analyst at the International
Institute for Strategic Studies in London, told AFP the collapse
of the CFE treaty could prompt a US military build up in response
to eastern European security fears.


Europe would risk revisiting "a situation which everybody thought
had been left behind in the 1990s."


Russian security analyst Vladimir Yevseyev issued a similar
warning.


"Destroying this is very easy. But then there will be nothing
left to restrain countries' military forces," he wrote in the
Gazeta daily. "The European security system could fall apart."

