

Bangladeshi political leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed intends to
return home soon, after the military-backed government appeared
to back away from efforts to keep her in exile, a spokesman said
Friday.


"Sheikh Hasina will come back in the first week of May," her
press secretary, Saber Hossain Chowdhury, told AFP.


Bangladesh's emergency government barred Sheikh Hasina, a former
premier and leader of the Awami League, from returning from
holiday in the United States earlier this month.


Authorities had also been trying to force out Sheikh Hasina's
main rival, Khaleda Zia, the country's last prime minister and
leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP).


Both Sheikh Hasina and Zia are accused of corruption, political
violence and misrule that led to a major political crisis in
January which saw elections cancelled and a state of emergency
imposed.


But the army-backed interim government appeared to drop its exile
plans for the two women earlier this week, while at the same time
maintaining murder and extortion charges against Sheikh Hasina
and bringing up the possibility of corruption charges against
Zia.


On Wednesday it ordered banks to supply details of the two
leaders' bank accounts.


"Madam (Khaleda Zia) is still in doubt whether the authorities
have totally abandoned the plan to send her into exile or they
have suspended the plan temporarily," a BNP leader speaking on
condition of anonymity was quoted as saying by the Daily Star
newspaper.


Zia's brother, Sayeed Iskander, confirmed to the newspaper that
Zia and several family members would be travelling to Saudi
Arabia for five to seven days next week for a short religious
pilgrimage.


It had earlier been reported that Zia had agreed to go into exile
in Saudi Arabia in return for leniency for her two sons, who face
corruption allegations.


Zia and Sheikh Hasina have held power alternately since 1991 but
the new government has pledged to clean up Bangladesh's
notoriously corrupt politics in order to put democracy back on
track.


It has said it will hold fresh elections by the end of 2008.

