

Beijing Olympic organisers accused Taiwan on Friday of breaking
its word and violating the Olympic charter by rejecting a place
in the 2008 torch relay.


Beijing organising committee vice president Jiang Xiaoyu called a
press conference here to display what he said were undertakings
signed by Taiwan to host a leg of the relay.


He said Taiwan's Olympic Committee agreed to host the relay
months ago and only changed its mind last week after pressure
from "non sporting" authorities in Taipei.


"The Chinese nation has the fine tradition of keeping promises.
We do not agree to any practice or behaviour that breaches
promises or a consensus previously reached," said Jiang.


Taiwan's decision was a political one, he said, accusing Taipei
of mixing sports and politics which is "a violation of the
Olympic Charter."


Taiwan has denied ever agreeing to host a stage of the relay and
said it would not take part even after Beijing unveiled the
detailed route on Thursday, including a stopover in Taipei.


Jiang, however, showed photocopied documents including what he
said was a four- point memorandum signed by the head of Taiwan's
Olympic Committee, Tsai Chen- wei, during a visit to Beijing in
February this year.


He said Taiwan had agreed to host the relay from April 30 to May
1 next year, with the torch arriving from Ho Chi Minh city and
departing to Hong Kong.


But he also added that Beijing had not yet received formal
confirmation from Taiwan that it would not host the relay leg.


"We still hope that the Taipei Olympic Committee and its
authorities will focus on the interests of the Taiwan compatriots
and the Olympic movement and continue to implement the relay
route that the two sides have agreed," he said.


Taipei was invited to be part of the relay in November last year
and accepted in December in a letter sent by Tsai, said Jiang.


However, last Friday, another letter from Tsai requested a change
to the route that would place Taiwan in between two independent
countries.


In the letter Tsai said he had come under pressure from
authorities "outside the sporting circle."


Jiang said Beijing responded by urging Taipei's Olympic officials
to comply with their engagements and "not to be swayed by
interference from political or individual quarters."


China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since they split in
1949 at the end of a civil war but Beijing still considers the
island part of its territory awaiting reunification.

