

Two Libyan terror suspects on Friday won their appeal against
deportation from Britain, in a blow to the country's anti-
terrorism policy.


The Special Immigration Appeals Commission (SIAC) found that the
two Muslim men identified only as DD and AS posed a danger to
Britain's security, but allowed their appeals on human rights
grounds.


The Home Office voiced disappointment at the ruling, seen as a
setback for Britain's policy of signing memorandums of
understanding (MOUs) with other countries to remove terror
suspects without breaching human rights laws.


Through guarantees that deportees will not face torture or ill
treatment, MOUs form a key plank of Britain's policy on dealing
with foreign terror suspects who cannot be prosecuted in British
courts.


SIAC chairman Justice Ouseley said in his ruling that there
remained a risk that the European Convention on Human Rights
could be breached if the two men were deported to Libya --
although he indicated it was not probable.


"There is also real risk that the trial of the appellants would
amount to a complete denial of a fair trial," he added.


Britain has signed MOUs with several Middle Eastern and North
African countries.


"It was common ground between the government and the men's
lawyers" that political opponents of Libyan leader Moamer
Kadhafi's regime "are reasonably likely to be tortured or
otherwise ill-treated if returned," the suspects' lawyers said in
a statement.


The Home Office was "very disappointed" by the decision and
maintained that Libya's assurances provided effective safeguards
and vowed to continue pursuing MOUs.


"We intend, therefore, to appeal to the Court of Appeal to seek
to overturn this decision," a spokesman said.


"These individuals have been found by SIAC to represent a real
risk to the national security of this country."


Kate Allen, the UK director of leading human rights group Amnesty
International, said: "Today's judgment underlines the principle
that no one should be returned to a country where they may face
torture.


"Amnesty has long argued that MOUs offer no protection from
torture and are not worth the paper they're written on.


"The government should now look very seriously at the whole
principle of MOUs.


"Britain should not be trying to cut deals with torturers."


Britain began a crackdown on foreign terror suspects in the wake
of the deadly July 2005 London suicide bombings.

