

Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said Friday that China must take
responsibility for global warming and vowed to target major
industries in an effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions.


"We urgently need to strengthen our work on saving energy and
reducing pollution as we face global climate change," Wen said in
a major speech on environmental protection.


"Our nation is a large consumer and producer of coal. We must
assume responsibility for reducing pollution emissions."


Wen said the reductions would be difficult to achieve but the
government would begin with its six dirtiest and largest energy-
consuming industries, including electricity, steel, non-ferrous
metals, construction, petroleum and chemicals.


Combined output in the six industries grew by more than 20
percent in the first quarter of 2007, he said, 6.6 percentage
points faster than the same period last year.


The industries account for 70 percent of China's energy
consumption and pollution emissions, he added.


Wen called for energy savings of 50 million tons of coal
equivalent in the power industry and 20 million tons of coal
equivalent in 1,000 state-owned major industrial enterprises this
year.


This was part of an overall effort to reduce energy consumption
per unit of gross national product by 20 percent during the
2006-2010 period and to cut emissions of key water and air
pollutants by 10 percent over the same period.


China badly missed the targets last year.


"This year is crucial. If we can meet our energy savings and
pollution reduction targets for this year it will form a good
base as we go forward," Wen said.


"If we cannot meet this year's target, this will greatly increase
the pressure on our work in the following three years."


As a signatory to the Kyoto protocol on climate change, China is
not required to cut greenhouse gas emissions due to its status as
a developing nation.


China has said previously it would not accept Kyoto-style curbs
on its greenhouse gas emissions, saying the responsibility rested
with the developed world.


But it has repeatedly acknowledged that climate change is a
problem that must be addressed, warning that related droughts,
storms and melting glaciers were already a threat to the nation.

