

Legendary Russian cellist and emblem of resistance to the Soviet
system Mstislav Rostropovich died Friday, his spokeswoman told
AFP. He was 80.


"He died in hospital today," Natalya Dolezhal said.


Rostropovich had been ill for some time and had been receiving
treatment at a Moscow cancer clinic.


He was born in Baku and studied in Moscow under the celebrated
composers Dmitry Shostakovich and Sergei Prokofiev. He went on to
a glittering international career, much of it spent abroad after
he was persecuted, then expelled in 1974 by the Soviet
authorities.


He was hospitalised in February for a reported operation on a
liver tumor and appeared pale and tired during television footage
of his 80th birthday celebrations in Moscow.


Rostropovich was considered one of the greatest cellists of all
time. His exploration of the tonal range of the instrument was
unrivalled and he entered productive collaborations with some of
the 20th century's finest composers.


But Rostropovich will be equally remembered for his battle
against the Soviet authorities, ending with his exile, and his
dramatic return to the democratic new Russia.


Born on March 27, 1927, to a musical family in Baku, capital of
then-Soviet Azerbaijan, Rostropovich gave his first concert at
the age of 13.


By the 1960s he was already on his way to winning over the rest
of the world.


Then on October 31, 1970, the cellist wrote an open letter to the
newspaper Pravda defending author Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who had
become the target of official abuse after receiving the Nobel
Prize for literature.


Decades later, the cellist would declare: "The best thing I
produced was not music, but that letter to Pravda. Since then I
have had a clean conscience."


But the letter, which was never published in the state-controlled
press, made Rostropovich a marked man.


He was banned from the prestigious Bolshoi Theatre, barred from
touring abroad and forbidden to conduct full orchestras. In 1974
he fled the Soviet Union with his wife and two daughters to
settle in the United States.


From there, the musician began a campaign to win freedom for
another larger- than-life Soviet dissident, Andrei Sakharov, who
was confined to internal exile.


In 1978, Rostropovich was stripped of his Soviet citizenship for
"systematic acts bringing harm to the prestige of the Soviet
Union."


In August 1991, just months from the collapse of Soviet power, he
flew to Moscow to help oppose a coup by Communist hardliners.


A famous photograph showed him in front of parliament along with
other pro- democracy supporters, a rifle instead of his beloved
cello in hand.

