

Japan's leading steelmaker Nippon Steel said Friday it eked out a
record net profit in the year to March by focusing on high-end
products to cope with major changes in the industry.


Nippon Steel, which became the world's second largest steelmaker
after last year's creation of the Arcelor-Mittal behemoth, said
it was pursuing partnerships of its own and anticipated nearly
steady profits this year.


Nippon Steel Corp. said its net profit grew 2.2 percent to 351.1
billion yen (2.95 billion dollars) in the year to March, its
third consecutive record.


Revenue rose more than 10 percent to 4.3 trillion yen, with
operating profit inching up marginally to 580 billion yen.


The global steel industry took was shaken up last year when
Mittal Steel, a Dutch-based company founded by Indian-born mogul
Lakshmi Mittal, completed its massive and controversial takeover
of rival Arcelor.


Nippon Steel said it was adapting to the changes by focusing on
higher-end steel products used in automobiles and other
manufacturing.


"Against this backdrop in the global steel industry, the company
exceeded the earnings targets of its medium-term management
plan," Nippon Steel said in a statement.


"Nippon Steel will reinforce technological and manufacturing
strengths through the continued enhancement of its superior
technological edge with the aim of being the global number-one
supplier focusing on medium-high grade steels."


The company said it benefitted from the recovery in Japan, which
is experiencing its longest expansion since World War II, and
from growing steel production in China which has curbed recent
price volatility.


Nippon Steel said it would keep seeking partnerships to cope with
industry consolidation. In December, it signed a wide-ranging
agreement with South Korean giant POSCO to jointly purchase iron
ore.


Nippon Steel predicted net profit to slip slightly to 350 billion
yen in the year through March 2008, with operating profit also
flat while revenues would rise to 4.7 billion yen.

