

Thailand and the United States said Friday they would kick off a
scaled-down version of their annual war games next month, despite
last year's military coup in the kingdom.


The "Cobra Gold" live-fire military exercises -- the largest US
war games in Asia -- are set for May 8 to 18 in eastern Thailand
with a focus on multinational peacekeeping operations, Thai and
US officials said.


The war games come amid an intensifying insurgency in Thailand's
restive south, and less than a year after the military ousted
elected prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra in a bloodless coup.


Just last week, Bangkok rejected a US offer to help train Thai
military forces to quell the insurgency in Muslim-majority
provinces, where more than 2,100 people have been killed over the
last three years.


The United States suspended 24 million dollars in military aid to
Thailand after the coup.


But Washington left intact other joint programmes, notably in the
field of counterterrorism, in which the kingdom has emerged as a
low-key, yet valued partner in the US battle against Al-Qaeda.


"The US position regarding September's coup is very clear, that
it is very disappointed and (was) a setback for Thailand and
(bilateral) relations," said Alexander Arvizu, the deputy chief
of mission at the US embassy.


"For the exercise itself is a mutual interest of the US,
Thailand, and other participants from Japan, Singapore and
Indonesia to understand and train with each other," he told
reporters.


The United States considers Thailand a non-NATO ally -- the
closest US designation a foreign military not a member of the
Western alliance can enjoy.


The war games were launched 26 years ago and originally limited
to US and Thai troops.


This year, 3,090 personnel from Thailand would take part along
with 2,000 US forces. Japan will send 47 troops, with 70 from
Singapore and 27 from Indonesia. Forces from those three nations
will only participate in computer simulations and observe
humanitarian projects.


In earlier years, some 20,000 personnel participated in the war
games, but the scale has gone down considerably in recent years.


Arvizu said the decrease was a result of US military actions in
Iraq and Afghanistan, but was unrelated to the coup.


Six other countries will observe this year's exercise: Australia,
Philippines, France, Germany, China and South Korea.

