

Yang Jiechi, who was named as China's new foreign minister on
Friday, brings to the post vast experience in dealing with
Washington and a friendship with the Bush family.


Yang, who turns 57 next month, was ambassador to Washington from
2001 to 2005, and he has spent most of his career focused on
China's most important strategic relationship.


A Shanghai native who from 2005 had served as one of seven vice
foreign ministers, he replaces 66-year-old Li Zhaoxing, who
stepped down after four years in the post.


In a reflection of the continuity China apparently has sought in
choosing Yang, his career trajectory is similar to that of Li,
Yang's predecessor as ambassador to the United States.


While ambassador, Yang proved his mettle on the world stage when
he was China's top negotiator during the 2001 spy plane incident
on Hainan island.


Bilateral tensions had spiked after a collision between a US
surveillance plane and a Chinese fighter jet in which the Chinese
pilot was killed and the US aircraft forced to land on Chinese
soil.


"While serving as ambassador to the United States from 2001 to
2005, Yang won acclaim for his efforts to promote China-US
cooperation and exchanges in fighting terrorism, trade and the
Korean Peninsula nuclear issue," Xinhua said.


"During his term in Washington, he was also said to be able to
tread a fine line in both firmly defending China's national
interests and maintaining smooth and stable ties with the United
States."


Yang, a fluent English speaker, is also known to be on good terms
with the family of US President George W. Bush.


He befriended the president's father in the 1970s when former
president George H.W. Bush was the head of the US liaison office
in Beijing, according to Qiao Changsen, the director of Fudan
University's Centre for American Studies.


"They've known each other for a long time. When Bush was the
director of US office in Beijing, Yang Jiechi used to escort the
Bush family on trips to Tibet and Xinjiang," Qiao said, in
reference to China's remote western regions.


"This occurred well before the two nations had established
diplomatic relations (in 1979)."


Yang had been working in the translation office of the ministry
of foreign affairs at the time.


In a visit to the United States during Bush senior's term as
president, Yang was received in the White House, a gesture not
normally bestowed on ordinary diplomats.


Yang received degrees in Britain from Bath University and the
London School of Economics in the 1970s before joining the
diplomatic corps.


He spent much of his early career focusing on US relations and
was posted to the Chinese embassy in Washington as a minister in
1993.


After serving as ambassador he returned to China as a vice
foreign minister under Li, where he often was chosen to receive
top visiting US leaders.

