

Global warming has the United States and Canada scrambling to
overhaul their strategies for controlling North America's vast
Arctic, as sea passage grows easier and natural gas resources
beckon.


Ice melt in Canada's Great North already allows boat traffic in
the Northwest Passage, long the definition of a difficult route
between the Atlantic and Pacific through the Arctic, which cuts
the sea travel distance between Europe and Asia by a third.


This tortuous route however should be open almost half of the
year by around 2035. That could foster cooperation, or
turbocharge turf squabbles between Canada and the United States,
whose claim on the Arctic is its state of Alaska.


There is already a history of rivalry between the two generally
friendly neighbors over the passage.


The United States considers the passage international waters free
to navigation.


But Canada rejects the argument, and has always defended tooth-
and-nail its "sovereignty" over the passage and what it sees as
its territorial waters.


"The Northwest Passage issue is not a Canada-US issue; the
European Union, Russia and others have the same concerns as we
have," Evan Bloom, deputy director for polar affairs at the US
State Department, told AFP.


The United States and Canada in the 1980s signed an agreement
allowing US ice- breaker ships through what Ottawa maintains are
Canadian waters.


"There are problems with this agreement, because no reference was
made to submarines or commercial craft," said Joel Plouffe, a
researcher at the University of Quebec at Montreal who recently
organized a discussion in Montreal on growing US interest in the
Arctic.


Mead Treadwell, chairman of the US Arctic Research Commission,
says the current agreement is not enough.


"We've promised not to send icebreakers without consultation
first. (But) if you stop there, then you are not addressing the
real issue, which is, some third nation may sail through and
leave oil on both our soils," he said.


In the future, the Northwest Passage could become an increasingly
busy commercial or cruise route, as traffic grows alongside
interest in North American Arctic mining, oil and natural gas
resources.


The biggest US oil field is at Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, and a huge
natural gas project is planned for Canada's Northwest
Territories, which could end up boosting traffic in the area.


And that is without factoring in development of what Treadwell
noted is "the largest (proven) natural gas field in North
America, and not yet developed."


Canada and the United States now need to agree on the precise
demarcation of their border in the area, and on a formula for
resource sharing and burden- sharing, such as patrolling the
waters for security reasons, researchers say.


"There is no way the US wants the (passage to) become free for
Pyongyang to deliver weapons" to another country, said Michael
Byers, an international relations expert at the University of
British Columbia.


Canadian forces are wrapping up an operation in the Northwest
Territories to affirm Canadian sovereignty in the north and
counter a simulated terrorist threat to oil production and
transport infrastructure.


Byers predicted that potential for terror strikes, environmental
disasters and illegal migration in this vast no-man's land
ultimately will lead the United States to recognize Canadian
sovereignty in these waters perhaps in exchange for guaranteed
access for US ships without having to request permission from
Ottawa.


"This is an open back door," Byers said.

