

US President George W. Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe were set to hold a summit here on Friday with North Korea and
Tokyo's expanding global role expected to be high on the agenda.


Bush welcomed Abe, who arrived in Washington on Thursday, for the
first time in the White House overnight and the two spoke
casually over dinner before heading off to the Camp David
presidential retreat in Maryland to get down to business.


Abe said he hoped to build on a strategic relationship that grew
under his predecessor Junichiro Koizumi, one of Bush's closest
allies, a personal friend, and a staunch backer of the Iraq war.


"The Japan-US alliance is an indispensable and unshakable one,"
Abe told members of the US Congress on Thursday.


"It is necessary to further strengthen the Japan-US alliance. I
would like to work together with the United States to continue
dealing with various issues such as North Korea, Iraq and
Afghanistan."


During talks at Camp David, Abe was expected to seek reassurances
from Bush on both the North Korea nuclear row and the issue of
Japanese citizens abducted by Pyongyang.


Abe, who propelled his political career with a tough stance
toward the communist state, assured the US legislators that Tokyo
will continue using "both pressure and dialogue" to deal with
North Korea.


The US and Japanese leaders are also expected to discuss issues
related to the Middle East such as Iraq, Iran and the
Palestinian-Israeli peace process. Abe will depart Washington
later in the day for a trip to five Arab nations.


Other issues likely to be on the agenda at Camp David are the
environment, free trade, energy security, intellectual property
rights, missile defense and realignment of US bases in Japan.


On Thursday, Abe renewed his expression of sympathy for Asian
women driven into brothels by Japan's military during World War
II, saying "I feel deeply sorry that they were forced to be
placed in such extremely painful situations."


Abe sparked controversy last month by saying there was no
evidence the imperial army directly coerced thousands of "comfort
women" into brothels across Asia during World War II.


The prime minister has since stressed he stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 apology to the women.


At the meeting in Camp David, the two leaders are set to dine on
an all-American lunch of controversial US beef -- in the form of
cheeseburgers.


Japanese curbs on US beef are one of the stickier trade issues
between Tokyo and Washington. Japan this week agreed to ease its
strict inspections on imports of US beef, which it had imposed
over concerns about mad-cow disease.

