

An Australian Aboriginal community celebrated the end of a
30-year struggle for their land on Friday when a court recognised
them as the owners of a remote cattle station at the centre of
landmark protests.


The Noonkanbah claim, which gained international attention in
1980 when a US company's proposal to drill for oil on a sacred
Aboriginal site prompted major protests, is seen as the impetus
for Australia's land rights movement.


The Federal Court Friday determined that the local Yungngora
people have exclusive native title rights over the 1,800 square
kilometre (720 square mile) estate in Western Australia's
Kimberley region.


Hundreds of Yungngora gathered at Noonkanbah, which they now run
as a cattle station, to celebrate the decision and to consider
what to do with the land which is rich in minerals, the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation reported.


"It puts behind the struggles that we have gone through in the
past, when the government and miners tried to override our people
and our culture for the sake of the so-called public good,"
Noonkanbah community chairman Dickey Cox said.


The Yungngora have held a pastoral lease for the estate since
1976 but the Federal Court decision gives them exclusive rights
over the whole parcel of land, save for a stock route and an
aerodrome which are government owned.


Australia's indigenous communities were stripped of all their
land when British settlers arrived more than 200 years ago and it
was not until the 1970s that a movement to recognise native title
rights gained support.


Despite having a lease for the Noonkanbah estate, in 1980 the
Yungngora people came up against the mineral exploration company
AMAX which had state government backing to drill for oil at a
sacred site on the estate.


The resulting protests have been credited with leading to the
establishment of the Native Title Act and other decisions which
have sought to give indigenous people control over their
traditional lands.


"The struggle over Noonkanbah went to the heart of the
aspirations of Aboriginal people to control their own land,"
National Native Title Tribunal member Dan O'Dea said.


"Their example has greatly influenced the subsequent development
of the law towards recognition of indigenous ownership of
traditional lands."


Fred Chaney, the federal minister for Aboriginal affairs at the
time of the dispute, said he had to "stand by and watch what I
thought was a thoroughly unpleasant exercise, which I thought
brought no credit upon any of us."


"So, for me, the determination is an important closing off of
what I thought was a very bad chapter, in favour of what I think
is a really good future," he told the ABC.

