

Asian stocks closed mostly lower on Friday with investors
shrugging off another record performance by Wall Street and
instead focussing on regional issues.


Weaker than expected economic data in Japan resulted in Tokyo
falling 0.17 percent and this, with growing fears that China will
tighten monetary policy to rein in its booming economy, weighed
on broader regional sentiment.


Shanghai ended its latest run of record closes and finished the
day down 0.16 percent while Hong Kong fell 0.68 percent, Taipei
was down 0.63 percent, Seoul shed 0.68 percent and Singapore
eased 0.24 percent.


Falling commodity prices resulted in Sydney dropping 0.98
percent. Manila was down 0.95 percent and Mumbai slumped 2.25
percent, both on profit taking.


However, Jakarta maintained its winning ways, notching up a 0.18
percent gain and another record high, while Wellington rose 0.16
percent and Bangkok advanced 0.63 percent amid some caution ahead
of anti-government rallies.


Kuala Lumpur stuck with Wall Street and rose 0.66 percent.


TOKYO: Share prices closed slightly lower Friday after soft
domestic economic data offset the impact of another record finish
on Wall Street.


Dealers said investors squared their positions before Japan
enters the Golden Week holidays beginning this weekend.


The Nikkei-225 index 28.76 points to 17,400.41. Volume was 2.26
billion shares, up from 2.03 billion on Thursday.


Ahead of the opening bell, Japan said consumer prices fell for
the second straight month and that industrial output unexpectedly
dropped.


"The economic indicators were disappointing," said a trader at a
European asset management firm.


"Investors continue to pay attention to corporate earnings
announcements and their impact on share prices," he said.


Japanese financial markets are open for only two trading days
next week, and so market watchers expect trade to be thin.


"Investors adjusted their positions ahead of a long holiday,"
said Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities.


"Trade is expected to be thin and share prices are seen staying
rangebound next week," he said.


Nippon Steel was down nine yen to 776.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.68 percent lower as investors
locked in profits amid expectations China could take economic-
tightening measures during Labor Day holidays next week.


Dealers said there was also some selling activity linked to the
expiry of April futures contracts.


China CITIC Bank posted strong gains on its debut but it lagged
its A-share gains on the mainland.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 140.79 points at 20,526.50.
Turnover was heavy at 64.17 billion Hong Kong dollars (8.2
billion US).


China CITIC Bank closed at 6.68 dollars, up 14 percent from the
IPO price of 5.86. It opened at 7.08, which was also its high for
the day.


The H-share gains paled in comparison with the bank's A-shares in
Shanghai, which closed at 11.37 yuan (1.47 US dollars), up 96
percent from the mainland offer price of 5.80 yuan.


"The market's weak showing was not surprising as investors wanted
to lock in profit on worries that China may announce austerity
measures during the golden week holiday next week," said Kitty
Chan, director of Celestial Asia Securities.


"I expect trade to remain weak and investors to be sidelined next
week due to the absence of leads from China stock markets," she
said, adding that the benchmark index will likely move within the
20,400-20,800 points range.


Analysts expect China's central bank to implement another 27
basis point hike in benchmark policy rates sometime soon.


SEOUL: Shares closed 0.68 percent lower Friday on profit-taking,
with sentiment depressed by weaker-than-expected industrial
output data.


Dealers said the latest figures undercut sentiment on the
economic outlook, with the market already tired after its recent
sustained advance and vulnerable to a reverse.


The KOSPI index fell 10.61 points to 1,542.52. Volume was 349
million shares worth 4.4 trillion won (4.7 billion dollars).


South Korean industrial output was up 3.1 percent year-on-year in
March, missing a market consensus forecast of a 5.5 percent rise.


"With mounting pressure for technical a correction, there are
many institutional investors who want to take profits," SK
Securities analyst Choi Seong-Rak said.


"Given the fatigue from April's record-breaking rally, the market
may see some easing next week, with China likely to announce
further tightening," Choi said, referring to widespread
speculation Beijing may take more measures to cool its runaway
economy.


Samsung Electronics was flat at 580,000 won.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed at the day's low, down 0.63 percent,
as early gains driven by another record in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average overnight gave way to profit-taking.


Dealers said uncertainty about the financial health of local
companies scheduled to report their results by the end of the
month also kept investors sidelined, while profit-takers took
advantage of earlier gains on prospects of a recovery in the
technology sector.


The weighted index closed down 50.62 points at 7,949.42 on
turnover was 91.78 billion Taiwan dollars (2.76 billion US).


Bellwether Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC) reflected
the mood of the market, failing to boost buying interest despite
the company's positive guidance for the current second quarter.


First Taisec Securities manager Stanley Hsu said some other
stocks also failed to benefit from their companies' solid
fundamentals and upbeat guidance recently announced, with many of
such positive factors having already been factored in.


"Investors have adopted a 'sell-on-news' approach as those
corporate results and upbeat guidance only met expectations
rather than surprised the market," Hsu said.


TSMC closed down 0.90 at 69.00 dollars.


SHANGHAI: Shares prices closed 0.61 percent lower, coming off
record highs as institutional investors booked profits ahead of
next week's Labour Day holidays.


Dealers said property and steel stocks were lower, while banks
also fell despite very strong gains for CITIC Bank on its debut
in Shanghai after the world's biggest Initial Public Offer (IPO)
so far this year.


The overall downturn snapped a 4-day record-breaking streak.


The Shanghai Composite Index lost 23.20 points at 3,759.87 on
turnover of 162.82 billion yuan (21.1 billion dollars).


CITIC Bank closed at 11.37 yuan (1.47 dollars), up 96 percent
from its IPO price of 5.80 yuan and after opening at 9.21 yuan.


It is common in China for shares of newly listed companies to see
huge gains on their first day of trade before retail investors
cash out, usually pocketing tidy sums.


CITIC's performance however was exceptional -- some dealers
described it as 'irrational' -- but it was perfectly in keeping
with the charge that has seen Chinese stocks rise more than 200
percent since January 2006.


Authorities and some investors have repeatedly warned that
China's stock markets are seriously overheated and a sharp
correction is necessary to bring prices back into line with what
is considered healthy.


SYDNEY: Share prices slumped almost 1.0 percent as investors took
profits after a sharp reverse in commodity prices overnight.


Dealers said here was little local direction and investors were
cautious ahead of the release of US first quarter growth data
later Friday, hoping that the figures will give them a better fix
on the outlook for the US economy and interest rates.


Volumes were heavy, with some signs that investors were looking
to a period of consolidation after the recent record breaking
run.


The SP/ASX 200 dropped 60.6 points to 6,151.6. Turnover was 1.64
billion shares worth 8.85 billion dollars (7.31 billion US).


While some still see further gains for a market which has
consistently broken into record territory in recent weeks, some
have begun to bet on a pullback, CMC Markets senior dealer Josh
Whiting said.


"The market remained stuck within a range during this holiday-
shortened week, unable to follow its US counterpart to new highs
but avoiding any steep losses," he said.


Whiting said volatility was likely to remain elevated thanks to
whippy offshore markets and the central bank's meeting next week
to decide on a possible interest rate hike.


Rio Tinto fell 2.19 dollars or 2.58 percent to 82.70 dollars.


SINGAPORE: Share prices fell 0.24 percent on profit-taking ahead
of the weekend.


The Straits Times Index fell 8.29 points to 3,398.6. Volume
totalled 2.55 billion shares worth 2.11 billion Singapore dollars
(1.39 billion US).


"I think the market is already overbought and that needs to be
adjusted a little bit by profit-taking," said a dealer with a
European brokerage.


With the public holidays in Japan and China next week, investors
feel "there is no real reason to rush in and buy anything," the
dealer said.


ST Engineering fell 0.16 to 3.54.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed 0.66 percent higher following a
record-setting rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average
overnight.


Dealers said gains were however capped by some profit-taking as
investors cut positions ahead of a shortened trading week due to
public holidays on May 1 and 2.


The composite index closed up 8.80 points at 1,324.77. Volume
traded was 1.47 billion shares valued at 2.79 billion ringgit.


"The market is still in consolidation mode, despite the upside
today especially in the morning session," said Cheah King Yoong,
head of research at SJ Securities.


"There's a lack of fresh leads, and there's really not much
movement, except in plantation and industrial stocks," he added.


Cheah said the market is likely to remain rangebound next week in
view of the shortened trading week due to the Labour Day and
Wesak Day public holidays.


Tenaga fell 0.20 ringgit to 11.60.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.63 percent higher, bucking a
sluggish regional market, as foreign investors bought banking and
energy stocks on bargain hunting.


But dealers said the market failed to break the key 700-point
barrier amid post- coup political uncertainty as allies of
deposed premier Thaksin Shinawatra were set to rally against the
military-backed government later in the day.


The composite index rose 4.32 points to 695.11 on turnover of 1.3
billion shares worth 8.8 billion baht (254 million dollars).


"Foreign investors led the market as they bought banking and
energy shares on bargain hunting," said Chai Chirasevenupraphand,
a market strategist at Capital Nomura Securities.


But buying ran its course in late trading as investors grew
jittery ahead of an anti-junta rally set to begin late Friday,
Chai said. Some 1,000 police were to be deployed for security.


PTT rose 2.00 baht to 216.00.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed up 0.18 percent as gains in mid-cap
stocks offset profit taking in selected blue chips, with the main
index finishing at a new record high.


The composite index closed up 3.643 points at 2,019.676. Volume
was 5.75 billion shares worth 3.97 trillion rupiah.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.95 percent lower as investors took
profits on blue chips.


Dealers said the broader market consolidated after a two-day
surge, with investors cashing in on gains in select stocks to buy
shares of newly-listed National Reinsurance Corp of the
Philippines (Philnare).


The composite index lost 31.96 points to 3,318.38. Turnover was
3.4 billion shares worth 4.78 billion pesos (100.6 million
dollars).


"Philnare definitely took up the bulk of volume traded today. It
showed the market's appetite for new listings and investors
flocked to the stock using money gained in recent sessions," said
Lawrence de Leon of Accord Capital Equities.


Philnare rose to as high as five pesos from an offer price of
3.80 pesos before closing at 4.50 pesos.


WELLINGTON: Share prices rose 0.16 percent, with the benchmark
index holding its ground despite a fall in the Australian market.


The NZX-50 gross index closed up 6.54 points at 4,181.45 on
turnover worth 104.7 million dollars (77.4 million US).


"I think (local stocks) performed incredibly well, especially
since how the Australian market's trading," said Joe Gallagher,
an institutional adviser with Goldman Sachs JB Were.


Brokers noted low liquidity exaggerated price swings in some
local shares.


Discount retailer The Warehouse fell 18 cents to 6.92 dollars
after the Commerce Commission delayed for a third time its
decision on applications for takeover clearance from two major
supermarket groups.


"I think a lot of it is people sick and tired of having their
money in this stock -- it's dead money for another month,"
Gallagher said.


MUMBAI: Share prices fell 2.25 percent, snapping five straight
days of gains, on weak Asian trends as investors locked in gains.


Dealers said investors chose to book profit ahead of the weekend
after higher full-year earnings for most Indian companies
reported in April.


The Mumbai 30-share Sensex fell 320.3 points to 13,908.58.


India's largest private sector Reliance Industries and largest
telecom firm Bharti Airtel dropped after earnings data was
announced.


"The markets could see some correction in days ahead after the
recent sharp run- up," said Hiten Shah, fund manager at Fortune
Financial Services.


Bharti fell 35.8 rupees to 826.25.

