

Kobe Bryant scored 45 points as the Los Angeles Lakers rallied
from a 17-point deficit to beat Phoenix 95-89 in game three of
their first round National Basketball Association playoff series.


Still reeling from a 28-point loss in game two, Bryant scored 15
of his points in the final period as the held on to beat the
Suns, who now hold a two-games- to-one series lead.


"It felt great," Bryant said. "We were more aggressive. This was
a great game to get some confidence going."


Bryant's teammates did not leave him out there by himself.


Lamar Odom collected 18 points and 16 rebounds and Kwame Brown
had 19 and six for the Lakers, who held a 19-6 advantage on the
offensive glass and shot 16 more free throws - punishing the Suns
in the paint.


"We had each other's back tonight," Bryant said.


Bryant was the difference during crunch time. The top fourth-
quarter scorer in the NBA, Bryant had only scored two points on
one-of-10 shooting combined in the final periods of the first two
games of the series. On Friday, the all-star guard turned that
all around.


"I was attacking the ball on the dribble and backing them up and
spacing them out," he said.


Bryant was 15-of-26 from the floor and 13-of-13 from the free-
throw line, while Odom and Brown combined to shoot 16-of-31 from
the field for Los Angeles, which shot 42 percent (34-of-81) from
the floor and 22-of-28 on foul shots.


Game Four will be in Los Angeles on Sunday and there might be
some animosity between the teams leading up to tip-off.


"When the suns are running it is a tough machine to stop," Lakers
coach Phil Jackson said. "In the second quarter we evened things
up and the guys started playing some defence."


On the game's final play, with the outcome already decided,
Lakers guard Smush Parker went in for a meaningless dunk. Raja
But Bell fouled him from behind, sparking angry words from
Phoenix coach Mike D'Antoni as the teams walked off the floor.


Amare Stoudemire collected 24 points and 10 rebounds and Leandro
Barbosa added 20 points for Phoenix, which shot 48 percent
(36-of-75).


In the other Western Conference game, Carlos Boozer scored 22
points and grabbed 12 rebounds as the Utah Jazz beat the Houston
Rockets 81-67 holding them to a playoff franchise-record low in
points.


Matt Harpring scored 13 points off the bench and Deron Williams
added 11 and eight assists for Utah, which cut its deficit to 2-1
in this Western Conference first-round series.


The 67 points by the Rockets is three less than the 70 they
scored in game five of a first round National Basketball
Association series vs the Jazz on May 3, 1998.


Utah closed out that series in five games. The points also were
one shy of the club's all-time low.


Houston only had four players score, setting an NBA playoffs all-
time low.


Boozer, who scored a playoff career-high 41 points in a 98-90
loss at Houston on Monday, received minimal support in that game
from frontcourt starters Andrei Kirilenko (zero points) and
Mehmet Okur (four points).


He got little help again from the duo, who combined for nine
points, but it was the Jazz reserves who really stepped up,
outscoring Utah's bench, 33-0.

