

An aide to Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on Friday accused the
Democratic US lawmakers who voted for a timed withdrawal of US
troops of playing politics with the future of Iraq.


"I wish they would stand side by side with the Iraqi people
rather than taking positions that could be catastrophic for the
Iraqis, because of their differences with the Republicans," said
Hassan al-Sinaid.


On Thursday, Congress adopted a timetable for the withdrawal of
US troops from Iraq when the US Senate voted 51 to 46 to approve
the 124-billion-dollar war- funding bill passed a day earlier by
the House of Representatives.


The bill provides the military with funds for operations in Iraq
and Afghanistan, but requires it to begin withdrawing forces from
Iraq in October and sets a non-binding target date of next March
31 to complete the drawdown.


US President George W. Bush has vowed to veto the bill.


Sinaid, a Shiite lawmaker from Maliki's Dawa party and close
counsellor to the prime minister, said the Democrats were being
misled by media reports as to the true situation in Iraq.


He told AFP that he thought the vote was "a political one, and
reflects the political differences inside the United States...
They (the Democrats) listen to the media which is almost in
opposition to the will of the Iraqis.


"I think they should get realistic studies of whether Iraqi
forces are ready to replace American troops," said Sinaid, adding
that joint committees should be formed to assess the efficiency
of Iraqi forces.


"Any Iraqi would be happy to see them (US troops) leaving, but it
should be done in a way that ensures good security," he stressed.


Sinaid blasted the Democrats for calling the violence in Iraq a
civil war, saying they were "captives of the media and opinion
polls."


"They talk about a civil war. I think this is unrealistic. There
is no civil war in Iraq, nor is there a sectarian one. What we
have is a war of terror unleashed by Al-Qaeda and the loyalists
of the former regime," he insisted.


US troops are in the middle of a massive "surge" operation
launched on February 14 to quell bloodshed in Baghdad and the
western Anbar province, partly by flooding in 28,000 extra
American troops.

