

Myanmar has promised to step up military action against all
Indian separatist rebels operating from its territory, an Indian
official said Friday following security talks between the
neighbours.


Myanmar made the promise after a series of meetings between
visiting Brigadier General Tin Maung Ohn and senior Indian army
officers, the official said.


"The Myanmar army has assured us (they will) step up the fight
against militants from the northeastern states," said the Indian
army commander, who asked not to be named.


The meetings were held in Guwahati, the main city in India's
state of Assam.


Another officer, Lieutenant General Paramjit Singh, described
Yangon's decision as "a breakthrough" as in the past, Myanmar has
acted against just one group -- the Nationalist Socialist Council
of Nagaland's Khaplang faction.


The group says it is fighting for an independent tribal homeland
in India's Nagaland state and says its general headquarters is
situated in Myanmar.


India and Myanmar share a 1,640 kilometre (1,000 mile) unfenced
border, allowing militants from the northeast to use the
adjoining country as a springboard to carry out hit-and-run
guerrilla strikes on Indian troops.


New Delhi has been asking Myanmar to flush out all the rebels,
including the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA),
regarded as the most powerful among the 30-odd separatist groups
in India's northeast.


The ULFA, which wants an independent homeland in Assam, is on the
run after the Indian army intensified operations against them in
January following a wave of killings and bombings blamed on the
group.


"The ULFA militants have sneaked into their bases in Myanmar. If
(Myanmar) launches an operation it would be easier for us to deal
with militancy here," said another senior Indian army source.


Besides the ULFA and Naga rebels, at least three other militant
groups from the insurgency ridden northeast are believed to have
training camps across the border.


"There are about 20,000 guerrillas in Myanmar belonging to
various groups of the northeast," Kughalo Mulatonu, a Khaplang
faction leader, told AFP by telephone.


Last year, Myanmar targetted Mulatonu's group, killing at least a
dozen rebels and overrunning many bases.


More than 50,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in
the northeast since India's independence in 1947.

