

South Korea's top university said Friday its researchers' claims
to have created the world's first cloned wolves are genuine, even
though their paperwork was poor.


Seoul National University (SNU), still smarting from an earlier
cloning scandal, had set up an inquiry after mistakes in an
academic paper by the research team were pointed out.


The team, led by SNU veterinary professors Lee Byung-Chun and
Shin Nam-Shik, announced on March 26 it had cloned two female
wolves named Snuwolf (Seoul National University wolf) and
Snuwolffy in October 2005.


Lee was also a leading member of the team led by now-disgraced
scientist Hwang Woo-Suk that produced the world's first cloned
dog in early 2005.


The paper on wolf cloning was found to contain incorrect details
in a table analysing the mitochondrial DNA sequence of the wolves
and their surrogate mother dogs.


The SNU secured blood and cell samples from three wolves -- the
one that provided eggs and the two clones -- as well as from one
of the two dogs which also provided eggs for the research.


"DNA analyses by two research institutions showed that the two
wolves are clones," Kuk Young, head of the six-member inquiry
panel, told journalists.


Kuk said the inaccurate details in the table and another error
were "inadvertent mistakes" and not aimed at exaggerating the
team's success.


But the panel found that the team did not write a laboratory note
when they carried out the research in 2005.


"Materials and documents related to the sampling and analysing of
samples were not kept well. It was also found that (the team)
lacked the ability to systematically analyse (the research
results)," the panel said in a statement.


It said the university would strengthen screening of research
papers, focusing on "their academic value rather than news
value," before going public with them.


Hwang was hailed as a national hero until a university inquiry
ruled in 2005 that some of his work on cloning embryonic human
stem cells was fake. SNU was hard hit by the scandal.


He is now on trial in a criminal court for fraud, embezzlement,
ethical breaches and other charges but has insisted he can still
prove he created the first cloned human stem cells.


The world's first cloned dog, named Snuppy, has been verified by
SNU and other authorities as genuine.

