

Japan's top court ruled Friday that Chinese people do not have
the right to seek war reparations, in two landmark verdicts
rejecting compensation to World War II sex slaves and forced
labourers.


The Supreme Court was ruling on the issue for the first time amid
continued friction between the two Asian powers over memories of
Japanese occupation.


The court's decisions are in line with the Japanese government's
position that war reparations are a matter between nations and
not between governments and individuals.


The Supreme Court ruled in two separate cases, striking down a
lower court award of compensation to forced labourers and
upholding another decision that rejected payouts to victims of
confinement and rape by Japanese troops in China.


"I feel angry at this unjust judgement," said Lu Zhigang, 59, who
was involved in a lawsuit on behalf of his late father who was
taken by force to a construction site in Japan.


"We are not trying to cause trouble. All we want is compensation
for the blood and lives of those who were forcibly taken," he
told a news conference in Tokyo.


The Supreme Court struck down a 2004 decision by the Hiroshima
High Court which found that the company, Nishimatsu Construction,
forced Chinese workers to toil in poor conditions in Japan.


The lower court had ordered the company to pay a total of 27.5
million yen (230,000 dollars) to the five labourers or their
families.


But Supreme Court Justice Ryoji Nakagawa said that while he had
sympathy for the victims, China gave up the right to such
compensation when it restored relations with Japan in 1972.


"As the suffering of the victims was extremely great, it is hoped
for that there will be efforts to provide relief to them,"
Nakagawa said.


But agreements made clear "that the two countries mutually
renounce rights, including individual rights, to make claims
incurred from the war."


"If similar demands are made by the plaintiffs in the future,
they will inevitably be dismissed," he said.


The 1972 Joint Communique that restored ties said China "declares
that in the interest of friendship between the Chinese and the
Japanese peoples, it renounces its demand for war reparation from
Japan."


In contrast, Japan paid 800 million dollars in grants and loans
to South Korea, which agreed in turn not to seek further
reparations, when they established ties in 1965.


Plaintiffs in the forced labourers' case argued that the joint
communique does not say Chinese individuals had given up the
right to damage claims.


"We will definitely fight to the end against Nishimatsu
Construction," said Song Jixiao, 78, who allegedly lost his
eyesight when he fell from a cliff in a tram at a construction
site in Japan.


Shuichi Adachi, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said the Supreme
Court "gave up its judicial role" by leaving the dispute up to
the plaintiffs and company.


"We must do something about the suffering of the plaintiffs,"
Adachi said.


Hours later, the Supreme Court, citing the same reasons, also
rejected an appeal by two Chinese women who were abducted and
raped in 1942 by Japanese soldiers in Shanxi for up to several
months when they were 13 and 15.


Presiding judge Chiharu Saiguchi said the women were "confined to
a base of the now-defunct Japanese army as they were repeatedly
subjected to sexual assaults by a number of soldiers."


"They were left with severe mental after-effects," he said.


History disputes remain a point of friction between the two
countries.


However, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao struck a conciliatory tone on
a visit to Japan this month, acknowledging that Japanese leaders
had apologised for the past.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who is known for his conservative
views on history, triggered an uproar last month when he said
there was no evidence Japanese troops directly coerced sex slaves
into army brothels.


He later clarified that he stood by a past apology to so-called
"comfort women" and had sympathy for their suffering.

