

Five Americans will be expelled from China after staging an
illegal demonstration at Mount Everest base camp that was aimed
at "splitting" the country, the Chinese foreign ministry said
Friday.


China has also lodged an official protest with the United States
over Wednesday's protest, in which the Americans called for
Tibetan independence and voiced outrage at the 2008 Olympic torch
passing through the Himalayan region.


"Upon discovering this activity, a border unit of China's public
security bureau stopped the protest and according to... relevant
laws will expel these people outside of China," a foreign
ministry statement said.


The statement clarified earlier comments by a ministry official
who had said that the Americans had already been kicked out of
the country.


The Americans had unfurled banners demanding a "free Tibet" and
protested against plans to take the Olympic torch to the top of
the mountain ahead of the 2008 Beijing Games, according to US-
based Students for a Free Tibet.


Police immediately detained four of the protesters at the scene,
while the fifth American was apparently taken into custody later,
as Chinese authorities had previously said that person had fled
base camp.


Students for a Free Tibet, which organised the protest, said it
was elated that the Americans would be released, but insisted
that the group would continue to protest against China's
oppressive policies there.


"We are overjoyed if it is true that the Chinese will release
them," said Lhadon Tethong, a spokeswoman for the group, said
from Kathmandu, the capital of neighbouring Nepal.


"But the occupation of Tibet remains and we will continue to
protest China's political use of the Olympics Games to legitimse
their control of Tibet."


The group said it feared that China would seek to whitewash
widespread religious and cultural oppression in Tibet through its
Olympic activities.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" the
region in 1951 and has violently suppressed a number of uprisings
since then.


The ministry statement said the Chinese government had lodged an
official complaint with the United States over the protest and
demanded that Washington prevent similar incidents from
occurring.


"Tibet is an inseparable part of China and the Chinese government
and people will never tolerate any activity aimed at splitting
China," the statement said.


"The United States should work to dispel the odious influence of
this (protest) and prevent similar incidents from occurring."


The protest came a day before the Beijing Olympic Games
organisers formally announced plans to bring the Olympic torch to
the top of the world's highest peak, while also sending the torch
relay through Lhasa, the capital of Tibet.


US embassy officials in Beijing could not confirm that the
Americans would be expelled and refused to comment on the
ministry statement.


On Thursday the United States said it was seeking consular access
to those detained, but it was not immediately clear if that had
been granted.

