

Gunmen killed two police officers during an attempt to kidnap two
foreign oil workers in the oil-rich southern Nigerian oil city of
Port Harcourt, police said Friday.


"The gunmen attacked a security convoy accompaning the
expatriates to the office. They could not take the men away, but
I lost two of my officers in the incident," Rivers state police
commissioner Felix Ogbaudu told AFP.


Industry sources said the two expatriates, whose names or
nationalities  were not released, work for Macoba Nigeria
International and made their escape in a mini-bus.


Ogbaudu said security agents were on the trail of the gunmen and
other militant groups that have launched violent attacks on the
Port Harcourt in recent weeks.


Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital, is also the hub of the
oil-rich Niger Delta region where several oil firms and oil
service companies have their operational base.


The city has seen a wave of kidnappings and killings of security
personnel, especially police, in recent weeks.


On April 14, regional elections day, seven policemen were killed
when unidentified gunmen stormed two police stations in the city.


Ogbaudu said some 20 police officers have been killed in the city
in the past two years.


The delta, a swathe of creeks and swamps and the size of
Scotland, is home to Nigeria's multi-billion dollar oil and gas
industry.


The region has seen a resurgence in violent attacks on oil firms
and personnel since the past two years.


More than 100 foreign workers have been kidnapped, but were later
released, while scores of Nigerian security personnel have been
killed by militant groups or armed gangsters.


The groups claim to be fighting for a larger share of the
country's oil wealth for the local residents, but some of them
also demand ransoms from oil firms before hostages are released.


The unrest in the delta has cut exports of crude from oil-rich
Nigeria, Africa's largest producer, by a quarter.


Nigeria is the world's sixth biggest exporter, accounting for a
daily output of some 2.6 milllion barrels.

