

Painted by his enemies as brutal and authoritarian, experts agree
that Nicolas Sarkozy's tough-as-nails persona is his Achilles'
heel -- but could it cost the right-winger the French presidency?


Despite topping the polls Sarkozy inspires deep animosity on the
French left and part of the centre, where his blunt-talking,
results-driven approach is seen as an early warning sign of an
authoritarian streak.


In the countdown to the May 6 presidential run-off, the Socialist
Segolene Royal has zeroed in on the tough-guy reputation that
Sarkozy earned as interior minister, contrasting his "brutality"
with her claim to a nurturing approach.


For Dominique Reynie of the school of political science in Paris,
"the only thing that can can stop Sarkozy from winning is his
personality."


"Without the problem over his personality, you could expect him
to be elected hands down."


"It's true Sarkozy has a personality problem, including on part
of the centre- right, who fear someone like that might have
trouble making cool-headed decisions as president," agreed Roland
Cayrol, director of the CSA polling firm.


Royal's Socialist Party (PS) has made political hay out of
Sarkozy's flaws, publishing a book-length manifesto attacking his
character and government style, though it has pledged to call off
the personal attacks in round two.


On the Internet, a raft of websites are promoting an "Anyone But
Sarkozy" stance, portraying him as a dictator-in-waiting, liable
to trample on human rights, the media and the independence of the
judiciary.


Sarkozy's campaign posters have been defaced with Hitler
moustaches and devil's horns, and the news magazine Marianne
doubled its circulation after printing a 12-page dossier on the
right-winger, brimming with anonymous insider accounts painting
him as dangerous.


Even Sarkozy's inner circle admits that the candidate can be
impetuous, but they see his bulldozer personality as an asset in
the drive to shake up the world of stodgy French politics.


Speaking on French television Thursday, Sarkozy dismissed the
attacks against him as the work of a "Parisian clique", who "live
in a world cut off from the country's realities."


Reynie said many ordinary French voters share the same view.


"Imagine that a few famous intellectuals, a few top journalists
launch an appeal from a Left Bank cafe to bar the road to Nicolas
Sarkozy -- it would probably do him a big favour," said Reynie.


"The French don't like to watch someone be bullied," added
Francois Delabrosse, Sarkozy's public relations officer, who says
"the attacks against him make him stronger."


But for Sarkozy's camp, the fear is that personality concerns
could scare off the seven million people who backed the centrist
candidate Francois Bayrou in round one, whose votes will be
crucial in the run-off.


"It's true Sarkozy could have trouble winning over votes from the
centre-right," said Reynie.


Though he gave no voting instructions, Bayrou attacked Sarkozy
this week as an adept at "intimidation and threat" and said he
was ready to seek common ground with Royal ahead of round two.


On balance, however, Cayrol said he doubted fears about Sarkozy's
personality could tip the election.


"If his rival puts the focus on his personality it can help her
in a subliminal way against Sarkozy, but it is not enough to
win."


For both Sarkozy and Royal the last chance to iron out their
image will be next Wednesday's prime-time television debate, on
which millions of undecided votes could hinge.


"Sarkozy needs to win without crushing her, to dominate without
looking worrying. He will have to fight his instincts in terms of
language and gestures," said Reynie.


But Sarkozy's strongest weapon, Reynie said, was still the
lingering doubt among left and centre-left voters about Royal's
ability to take on the top job, fuelled by her shaky campaign and
policy gaffes.


"If the French have to choose between someone who seems a bit
worrying and someone who seems incompetent, they will choose the
one who looks competent.


If during Wednesday's debate, "Royal manages to hold her ground
for two hours against Nicolas Sarkozy and does her job well --
then the issue of his personality could become decisive."

