

Taiwan's decision to reject the Olympic torch provoked an outcry
at home Friday as the opposition and the media accused the
government of letting politics interfere with sport.


Beijing Games organisers announced Thursday that the flame would
visit the island after sweeping through the cities of Pyongyang
and Ho Chi Minh, before moving on to Hong Kong and Macau.


President Chen Shui-bian told reporters on Friday that relevant
authorities deemed the plan unacceptable because "Taiwan's status
as a sovereignty country cannot be dwarfed."


But opposition politicians were quick to condemn the decision.


"This is a rare opportunity to put Taipei and Taiwan in the
international stage. We really regret losing this opportunity,"
said Taipei mayor Hau Lung-bin from the main opposition
Kuomintang (KMT) party.


Presidential hopeful and former KMT chief Ma Ying-jeou blamed the
government for rejecting the torch on political grounds.


"The (ruling) Democratic Progressive Party is going to hold its
primary and now comes the decision that is against the mainstream
opinions in the international community," Ma said.


"It shows the government has little confidence in itself. The
Republic of China (Taiwan's formal name) is a sovereign country
and we need not be afraid of being belittled," he added.


KMT lawmaker Huang Chih-hsiung, a silver medalist in taekwondo at
the 2004 Athens Olympics, said the DPP should take the blame if
the International Olympic Committee revoke Taipei's membership as
a punishment.


Taiwanese media were also critical of the rejection of Olympic
torch, arguing that politics and sport do not mix.


"The government says time and again that it wants to return to
the international arena but now is it going to resort to
boycotting the Olympics to highlight Taiwan's sovereignty?" the
United Daily News said in a commentary Friday.


"Isn't the government going too far in driving away the torch and
denying itself in order to manipulate the elections?" it asked.


Some sports organisations, meanwhile, voiced their support for
the decision.


"We absolutely back the government to protect our country from
being belittled by politics," said Kuo Chin-hsin, secretary-
general of the Chinese Taipei Taekwondo Association.


China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since they split in
1949 at the end of a civil war but Beijing still considers the
island part of its territory awaiting reunification.


Taipei last hosted a leg of the torch relay in the 1964 Tokyo
Olympic Games.


The authorities had demanded that the island be included on the
international route rather than as part of China's domestic relay
which they feel would imply the island was part of China, as
Beijing insists.

