

Russia reacted furiously on Friday after Estonia removed a Soviet
war monument from central Tallinn amid violent riots, clouding
diplomatic relations between the two neighbours.


"We must react without hysteria but take serious steps to express
our genuine attitude to this inhumane action," Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted by Russian news agencies as
saying.


A foreign ministry spokesman called the removal of the monument
"blasphemous" and "inhuman," adding that Russia would re-examine
its relations with the ex- Soviet Baltic state in light of the
incident.


Around 30 members of two pro-Kremlin youth groups meanwhile held
a rally outside the Estonian embassy in Moscow on Friday and
waved placards reading: "Hitler is Estonia's Idol," "Shame!" and
"Fascists!"


"My grandfather fought against fascism and now Estonia is waging
a political war against our country," said Sergei Belov, a 23
-year-old activist.


In the Estonian capital overnight one person died and at least 43
were injured in a looting rampage and clashes with police after
the statue of a Soviet Red Army was removed from a city square.


The removal of the monument has angered many in Russia, where
nostalgia for the Soviet Union is still widespread and Victory
Day on May 9 continues to be a major yearly celebration.


Estonia, where around 12 percent of the population of 1.4 million
are ethnic- Russian, has joined the NATO military alliance and
the European Union since breaking off from the Soviet Union in
1991.


Russia sees the monument as a memorial to those who defeated Nazi
Germany during World War II, but for many Estonians it is a
painful reminder of 50 years of post-war occupation of the Baltic
state by the Soviets.


The speaker of the upper house of the Russian parliament, Sergei
Mironov, proposed a non-binding resolution to be voted on later
Friday asking Russian President Vladimir Putin to break
diplomatic relations with Estonia.


"Enough of blaspheming our victory in World War II!" Mironov
said.


The deputy speaker of the lower house of parliament, Oleg
Morozov, also called for "the toughest possible sanctions"
against Estonia and said the removal of the monument was "a
barbaric decision."


Russian officials have waved the threat of economic sanctions
against Estonia, which depends heavily on Russia for oil and gas
supplies, as well as acting as a transport hub for the export of
Russian goods.


First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov earlier urged Russians
to avoid holidaying in Estonia and purchasing Estonian goods,
while calling for new terminals on Russia's Baltic Sea coast to
avoid the Estonian route.


Russia imports electronic goods, dairy products and fish from
Estonia. Russian news agencies have reported isolated boycotts of
Estonian goods in Russian shops in recent weeks.


At a press conference, Estonia's ambassador to Moscow, Marina
Kaljurand, condemned the rioting in Tallinn and said the threat
of diplomatic sanctions against Estonia was "unfounded."


"It was clear that the Bronze Soldier was just an excuse for
young people, who turned over cars and broke windows, stole
alcohol and threw everything they could get their hands on,"
Kaljurand said.


"We consider ending diplomatic relations unfounded.... Estonia
has done nothing to provoke anyone," she said.


"Our most important partner is the European Union. Russia is our
neighbour."

