

The 2008 Olympic torch relay was engulfed in controversy Friday
as critics slammed Beijing's plans for stops in Taiwan and Tibet,
as well as a side trip over Mount Everest.


The relay ahead of the Beijing Games is scheduled to pass through
22 cities in five continents outside China, as well as Taipei,
Hong Kong and Macau.


It will then move on through 113 cities in each of China's 31
provinces and regions.


The route was unveiled at a lavish nationally televised show late
Thursday featuring teenagers on skateboards and mountain bikes as
well as pop singers, dancers, big bands and fireworks.


China's media heralded the route as the "Relay of Friendship,"
but it sparked an immediate outcry overseas.


Taiwan's National Olympic Committee said it did not want to play
any part in the relay, denouncing it as "unacceptable" political
interference, due to longstanding political rivalries.


Tibetan independence activists slammed the International Olympic
Committee (IOC) for helping China reinforce its control over
Tibet.


China has ruled Tibet since sending troops in to "liberate" it in
1951 and has violently suppressed a number of uprisings since
then.


The anger at the inclusion of Tibet in the relay -- it will pass
through the regional capital of Lhasa as well as going over
Everest -- came after five Americans staged a protest at Everest
base camp on Wednesday to call for the Himalayan region's
independence.


The Americans were detained after unfurling banners demanding a
"free Tibet" and protesting against the plans to take the Olympic
torch to the top of the mountain.


Tibetan independence activists called on the IOC to speak out on
behalf of the Americans, but IOC members refused to comment,
saying the organisation did not engage in political issues.


China announced Friday that the Americans had been released and
expelled from the country.


But Lhadon Tethong, the executive director of US-based Students
For a Free Tibet, which organised the Everest campaign, said more
protests would come.


"We will be taking every opportunity to use the Olympics to
spotlight China's brutal rule, and we will challenge the Chinese
at every turn," she told AFP.


She accused the IOC of backing China's "political agenda" with
the Games.


"We are extremely upset that the IOC is clearly supporting the
Chinese political agenda with the Games," she said in Kathmandu.


"They (the Chinese) are using the Games to strengthen and
legitimise their claims over Tibet."


Tsering Thadup, who runs the Tibetan Refugee Centre in Kathmandu,
said China should lose the right to host the Games.


"China should not be allowed to hold the Olympics as they have
been continually violating human rights in Tibet," he said.


"The torch relay has no significance unless China stops violating
human rights."


Around 2,500 refugees flee Tibet every year to Nepal, which is
now home to around 20,000 Tibetans.


On Taiwan, Beijing insisted that Taipei had agreed in advance to
the programme and was happy to be positioned in the relay route
between Vietnam and Hong Kong.


Taiwan has maintained in the past that it would consider
accepting the torch relay only if the leg were part of the
international section, sandwiched between two sovereign
countries.


But Taipei was unhappy at being asked to hand off the torch to
Hong Kong, part of China, which it said was tantamount to
undermining Taiwan's self-rule status.


"The Beijing authorities are attempting to turn the relay into a
domestic route and therefore dwarf our status. This is absolutely
unacceptable," Taiwan Olympic Committee chairman Tsai Chen-wei
said in a statement late Thursday.


China considers Taiwan part of its territory, to be retaken by
force if necessary, following their split in 1949 after a civil
war.


However, members of Taiwan's opposition Kuomintang party, which
favours improved ties with Beijing, backed the torch relay,
including Taipei mayor Hau Lung-bin.

