

Malaysia's defence ministry has denied any wrongdoing in major
deals to purchase Russian Sukhoi fighter jets and European
Scorpene submarines, officials said Friday.


Former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim has alleged the
payment of hefty commissions for brokering the deals, including
to prominent political analyst Abdul Razak Baginda, whose ties
reach as high as deputy premier Najib Razak.


Abdul Razak is currently in jail, charged with abetting in the
high-profile murder of a Mongolian model last year, with a trial
due to start in June.


The ministry said it had paid no commissions for the purchase of
the Scorpene submarines, and also defended the purchase of Sukhoi
30-MKM fighter jets through a Malaysian company.


"There is a lot of speculation and we want to stop the
speculation once and for all. It's been going on for quite a
while," defence ministry spokeswoman Fadzlette Merican told AFP.


Malaysia is expected to take delivery of two Scorpene submarines
next year, and a first batch of six of 18 Sukhois next month.


In a statement issued late Thursday, the ministry rejected claims
that it paid a 540 million ringgit (157.89 million dollar)
commission to Abdul Razak.


"With regards to the procurement of the Scorpene submarines, the
defence ministry wishes to assert that allegations that the
government paid commission as much as 540 million ringgit to
Abdul Razak Baginda are totally baseless," it said.


The ministry also said it had negotiated directly with Scorpene
manufacturers, France-based Armaris and Spain's Navantia, and had
not paid any commission to a Malaysian firm called Perimekar.


However, Perimekar has a six-year contract worth 114.96 million
euros (156.4 million dollars) to provide support services for the
submarines, due to arrive next year, the ministry said.


It said Perimekar was jointly owned by the Armed Forces Pension
Fund, Malaysian- listed Boustead Holdings and private Malaysian
firm KS Ombak Laut.


Opposition groups, who have highlighted the claims amid fierce
campaigning against the ruling National Front coalition in a
crucial weekend by-election, have alleged Ombak Laut is linked to
Abdul Razak.


The ministry also defended the purchase of Sukhoi jets in a deal
which involved an unnamed Malaysian company, saying that Russia's
state-owned Rosboronexport had wanted to make the deal with the
aid of a local firm.


"Rosboronexport had appointed a local firm to facilitate their
dealings in this country," the ministry said.


Anwar has alleged former cabinet minister Mohamad Adib Adam
received a 108 million-dollar commission for brokering the deal.


It said all the negotiations were carried out according to
government procurement guidelines.

