

Squatting around campfires near Kosovo, groups of Serb refugees
expressed their dreams Friday of one day returning to homes
across the nearby border that they fled eight years ago.


But their tales of sorrow, recounted for the umpteenth time,
betray a lack of real hope, as they are still fearful of attacks
from ethnic Albanian extremists in revenge for Kosovo's 1998-1999
war.


Despite his "disappointment and mistrust" in politics, Stevo
Janjic said he joined a call to gather on this remote hillside
for a two-day protest coinciding with a visit to the region by UN
Security Council envoys.


"For politicians, we are just numbers on papers. Let them see how
many of us are far from home, from normal life," said the 49
-year-old carpenter whose six- member family found shelter in the
central Serbian town of Krusevac.


Like Janjic, many of the estimated 6,000 refugees from various
Serbian towns were bussed to the Rudnica area some three
kilometres (two miles) from the administrative border by protest
organisers.


Their houses had been burned down, they said, or others had moved
in as thousands of ethnic Albanian refugees returned to Kosovo at
the end of bloody inter-ethnic conflict in June 1999.


"Who will give me my job back, what would my family live off even
if we return?" asked Zlatko, 48-year-old miner from the Kosovo
village of Obilic.


The biggest fear seemed to be safety, as the Albanians, who make
up 90 percent of Kosovo's population of almost two million, could
hardly forget years of repression by the regime of late Serbian
president Slobodan Milosevic during the 1990s.


"Only one man from our village has returned so far. But he said
that life was almost unbearable there, facing daily insults and
even assaults," said one young man.


Srebra Vasic, originally from the northern town of Gnjilane, said
she kept hoping to return, but doubted it would ever happen.


"I don't expect anything from this UN mission. I hope Russia will
do something for us, but God knows whether their opinion matters
in today's world," said Vasic, who has been living with her
husband and two children at a refugee centre in the southern
Serbian town of Negotin since 1999.


Nearby, a group of young men in red T-shirts bearing the Cyrillic
motto "Serbia and Russia," said that Kosovo "is and will always
be in Serbia's hearts."


Waving Serbian flags, they joined the rally organised by hardline
Serbian leaders who have remained in Kosovo, mostly in the
northern, ethnically-divided town of Mitrovica.


"We will tell the (UN) mission that Kosovo has become a prison
camp, run by mafia clans and all reports by the UN officials
running Kosovo are fake," shouted Milan Ivanovic, a leader from
Mitrovica.


Dragan Kostic, who left his hometown of Prizren in 1999, said his
family "came here to defend our Kosovo peacefully."


"There is no other way," Kostic said.


More than 80 buses with banners declaring "We want to go home"
stuck on windshields were parked along the road leading to the
border with Kosovo.


"Every Serb in Kosovo is against Kosovo's independence," warned
another Serb leader, Marko Jaksic.


Organisers said the protestors, led by Serbian Orthodox priests,
would march later Friday to a nearby border post controlled by UN
police to hand them their written return requests.


"We don't want to return to our homes by force. We want an
organised, safe return," said Nebojsa Jovic, one of the protest's
organisers.

