

Japan's economy will see steady growth but almost no inflation
this year, the central bank said Friday, vowing to continue its
policy of gradual interest rate rises.


The Bank of Japan cut its inflation forecast for the year to next
March to a tepid 0.1 percent, but predicted a pick-up to 0.5
percent the year after.


The slower than expected recovery in prices would not derail the
overall recovery, with the economy expected to grow 2.1 percent
annually over the next two years, the BoJ added.


As the supply and demand conditions become tighter, prices should
pick up gradually, said BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui.


He warned that even with steady growth, if interest rates are
kept low the market will take the view that loose monetary policy
will continue, which could result in "larger swings" in economic
activity.


"We must adjust rates in accordance with changes in the economy
and prices," he told reporters.


The central bank had already cut its inflation forecast once in
February from 0.8 percent as the economy struggles to beat its
long deflationary scourge.


Japan's core consumer prices slid by 0.3 percent in March, down
for a second straight month, the government reported Friday,
leading some analysts to question whether the BoJ's outlook for
next year was attainable.


"They needed to expect the CPI to pick up next year. Unless they
do so they cannot justify any rate hikes from here on," said
Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief economist for Japan at Credit Suisse
First Boston and a former BoJ official.


But he said tame price pressures may not deter the BoJ from
raising interest rates again this year as the central bank is
concerned that an overly loose monetary policy will store up
trouble for the future.


"They remain fairly stubborn in terms of their stance on
normalising monetary policy and they stress the risk of possible
upswings in the economy. I think they want to keep a free hand in
monetary policy," said Shirakawa.


Japan's economy is likely to realise "sustainable growth under
price stability," the BoJ report said.


Exports will continue rising as the US economy makes a soft
landing, although corporate capital investment will likely fall
gradually, it said.


Strength in the corporate sector will feed through into the
household sector slowly, helping private consumption to keep
climbing gradually, it added.


The BoJ said it "will adjust the level of interest rates
gradually in accordance with improvements in the economic and
price situation."


The BoJ left its key interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent
Friday for the third meeting in a row after its quarter point
hike in February, which was the first since July when it ended
more than five years of virtually free credit.


Asia's largest economy had been trapped in a deflationary spiral
since the late 1990s but is now in the midst of its longest
sustained recovery since World War II.

