

The Turkish parliament was set to vote Friday in a crucial
presidential election overshadowed by an opposition boycott call
and the threat of a legal challenge.


The exercise threatens to further widen the gap between Turkey's
secularists and the Islamist-rooted, ruling Justice and
Development Party (AKP), whose candidate, Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, is virtually certain to win.


Secular Turks see the prospect of a president with an Islamist
background as proof of religion steadily creeping into politics
and public life. Goverment supporters respond with charges of
crisis-mongering and flouting democracy in a country where
surveys show people increasingly identify with Islam.


The first round of voting was scheduled to begin at 3:00 p.m.
(1200 GMT). The main opposition party has said it will not vote
and has threatened to challenge the result in the Constitutional
Court if less than two-thirds of MPs participate.


"The most critical threshold," the daily Milliyet headlined on
its front page, while the mass circulation Sabah called it an
election "Never seen before." The pro-Islamist Zaman spok of a
"Democracy test in parliament."


The AKP, the moderate offshoot of a now-banned Islamist movement,
holds a solid majority in the 550-member assembly to secure Gul's
election, but only in the later stages of the vote.


The only other candidate, dissident AKP deputy Ersonmez Yarbay,
stands no chance of election.


Discouraged by the ruling party's majority, the opposition has
fielded no candidates of its own to succeed hardline secularist
Ahmet Necdet Sezer, whose seven-year term, marked by frequent
clashes with the government, expires on May 16.


The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) insists that
the presidential palace, which it calls "the last bastion of
secularism," cannot be left to someone with an Islamist
background.


The opposition wants general elections scheduled for November to
be held before the presidential vote.


The AKP currently controls nearly two-thirds of the legislative
assembly, despite winning only 34 percent of the popular vote --
a quirk of Turkey's electoral system.


The AKP has disowned its Islamist roots, pledged commitment to
the secular system and secured the opening of membership talks
with the European Union.


But some of its actions, such as attempts to criminalise
adultery, isolate alcohol-serving establishments in special zones
and encourage Koranic courses, have fuelled suspicions of its
Islamist ambitions.


Sezer often vetoed laws he deemed anti-secular and blocked the
appointment of senior officials he saw as Islamist government
cronies.


The CHP argues that at least 367 deputies, or the number of votes
the winner is required to garner in the first round, must be
present in the assembly for voting to begin.


The AKP has 352 seats, enough to elect Gul, but only in the third
or fourth round, in which an absolute majority of 276 suffices.


Parliament Speaker Bulent Arinc insists he will go ahead with the
vote if the usual quorum of 184 is secured.


The opposition hopes to isolate the AKP by convincing other
opposition MPs to boycott the session. It will then petition the
Constitutional Court to scrap the first-round vote, thus blocking
the election process and forcing early elections.


The moderate Gul was picked as AKP candidate following
unprecedented mass protests against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, a highly popular, but controversial politician who had
been widely expected to run.


The army has issued a subtle warning that the new president
should be bound to secularism "not in words but in essence."


Gul and Erdogan both belonged to the Welfare Party of Turkey's
first Islamist prime minister Necmettin Erbakan, which was forced
from power in 1997 by an army-led secularist campaign and banned
in 1998.

