

With unanimous barbs for President George W. Bush and compliments
for each other, eight US Democratic presidential candidates
jostled politely for position on national television nearly nine
months before the first nomination contests.


The polls' current favorite, New York Senator Hillary Clinton,
stressed her political experience and came off looking best,
according to some observers in a debate marked by charm
offensives rather than combativeness.


"She smiled a lot, she used a bit of humor, she seemed more
likable, softer while still a strong candidate," said Charlton
McIlwain, a professor of culture and communication at New York
University.


"Taking myself out, I'm looking at a bunch of winners right
here," said one of Clinton's rival candidates, Joseph Biden in
the debate. "And whoever wishes for Hillary is making a big
mistake on the Republican side."


Her nearest challenger, the 45-year-old Illinois Senator Barack
Obama, seemed mostly poised as he made what was seen as a key bid
to firm up his stance on issues. But he failed to convince some.


"A big surprise was how unpolished Obama came across," said
political scientist Costas Panagopoulos of Fordham University in
the state of New York. "He wasn't as clear. Maybe he was a bit
too rehearsed."


Former senator John Edwards, ranking third in the latest polls,
meanwhile stressed his own experience in foreign affairs, as five
other candidates worked to carve distinctive profiles for
themselves.


Lesser-known candidates such as senators Biden and Christopher
Dodd, and New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, were out to boost
their profiles as Clinton and Obama power ahead having each
raised tens of millions of dollars for their campaigns.


The debate was televised live across the country from South
Carolina State University's Martin Luther King auditorium, named
after the leader in the civil rights movement that raged in
southern states such as South Carolina.


But unlike King's impassioned speeches, voices were rarely raised
during the Democratic contenders' 90-minute debate as the eight
candidates stood in front of a stars-and-stripes design, all
dressed in suits.


Instead of clashing over policy plans, the speakers preferred to
unite against what Bush's war policy in Iraq.


Another contender, Dennis Kucinich, did challenge his rivals on
that topic -- notably Clinton, who initially voted in favor of
the war.


Kucinich and another contender, former Alaska governor Mike
Gravel, also drew Obama into testy exchanges over his tough
stance on Iran's nuclear program, with Gravel demanding to know
whether Obama planned to "nuke" Iran.


"I'm not planning to nuke anybody right now, Mike, I promise,"
Obama answered, trying to restore the event's genial tone.


Clinton and Edwards made the best impression on other observers.


"Senator Clinton came across as confident and competent,"
Panagopoulos said. "And I was impressed with John Edwards. He did
a really good job answering a question about his family, his
privileged life."


"Because of the format, and there was so little time and so many
candidates ... the outcome is you didn't see much of a difference
between the candidates in terms of policies,"  McIlwain of New
York University said.


"The format may have disadvantaged Obama," he added. "He was
trying to figure out what he wanted to say over such a short
period of time. His typical style is more of an orator," he
added.


Panagopoulos said aggression may mount as the campaign develops
after Thursday's debate.


"It was more about introducing the candidates. It was as much
about style as about substance," he said. "I don't think anyone
made up their minds tonight."

