

Press freedom is deteriorating in Azerbaijan with five
journalists jailed in the past 10 months, Human Rights Watch
warned, citing a new case of an editor jailed for libel and
"insult."


"The steady rise of politically motivated defamation charges and
violent attacks against critical journalists is clearly aimed at
silencing critical voices in Azerbaijan," said Holly Cartner, the
group's director for Europe and Central Asia, in a statement
Thursday.


A court in Baku on April 20 jailed Eynulla Fatullayev, editor of
the independent newspapers Realni Azerbaijan and Gundelik
Azerbaijan, for "criminal libel" and "insult," the New York-based
group (HRW) said.


Fatullayev denied the charges, which were based on an Internet
posting in which he was alleged to have blamed Azerbaijanis for a
1992 massacre in a village in Nagorno-Karabakh, a region disputed
by Armenia and Azerbaijan.


The two countries fought a war over the territory in the early
1990s that claimed an estimated 35,000 lives and caused about a
million people on both sides to flee their homes.


The person bringing the charges "alleged that the statement
defamed the village's residents."


"Fatullayev's prosecution was politically motivated, and he
should be immediately released from custody," Cartner said. The
journalist is known for his criticism of Azeri officials and for
exposing government corruption.


According to official Azerbaijani statistics, more than 600
people were killed in February 1992 when ethnic Armenian forces
stormed the predominantly Azeri village of Khojali.


Fatullayev is the fifth journalist to be imprisoned in Azerbaijan
in the last 10 months, HRW said. Unknown assailants also attacked
and seriously injured one of his colleagues.


A fellow editor and friend was murdered in March 2005, and
kidnappers last year seized his father and threatened to kill him
and Fatullayev if he continued publishing newspapers.


High-ranking officials have also brought defamation charges
against him and other independent journalists.


"If this crackdown on the media continues, it will be nearly
impossible for Azerbaijan to hold free and fair presidential
elections next year," Cartner said.


The European Union's special representative to Armenia,
Azerbaijan and Georgia, Peter Semneby, said this week in Baku:
"The provisions on libel should be removed from Azerbaijan's
criminal code to help solve the problem of pressure being put on
journalists."

