

British Prime Minister Tony Blair will celebrate 10 years in
power next week, a landmark clouded by growing questions over his
legacy as he prepares finally to stand down.


The Iraq war and a "cash for honours" corruption probe over party
funding both threaten to tarnish his image, and overshadow
Britain's booming economic success of the last decade.


Blair has until now disclosed nothing about how and when he will
fulfill his promise to step down this year, in the middle of his
third term in power, but an announcement is expected in the
second week of May.


Nor has he said anything about his successor, who is expected to
take over in the last days of June.


But for several weeks, Blair has sought to defend his record and
his place in history.


He has stressed the decade of economic prosperity which has
transformed Britain, the billions of pounds poured into health
and education reform, and the drop in crime.


He has defended his "interventionist foreign policy, driven by
values," his alliance with Washington, "not simply when the going
is easy," and refused to apologise for and admit failure in Iraq.


In 1997, with a full head of hair and a broad smile, Blair
entered power at 43 years old on a wave of popular enthusiasm,
becoming the youngest British prime minister since 1812.


With the Conservative opposition decimated, he led his Labour
party to an unprecedented three straight terms in power.


During the Blair years, the Bank of England gained independence,
the minimum wage was introduced, Scotland and Wales obtained
lawmaking powers, the Good Friday peace agreement was struck in
Northern Ireland, gays obtained "marriage" rights, and the use of
private funding was introduced in health and education.


And before he bows out, Blair, his hair now graying and thinning,
is to celebrate on May 8 his most obvious success: the revival of
power-sharing between Roman Catholics and Protestants in a
peaceful Northern Ireland.


Late last year, one of his advisors said in a memo: "He needs to
go with the crowds wanting more. He should be the star who won't
even play the last encore."


Reality has turned out differently.


Blair announced in October 2004 that his third term would be his
last. But he is leaving earlier than he hoped, pushed out by a
"coup" mounted in September last year by Gordon Brown, his
finance minister and long-time rival.


With less than 30 percent support among voters in the opinion
polls, the Labour Party has hit an historic low, left in the wake
of a revived Conservative Party.


His image has been tarnished by a probe into shady party election
financing in which he has been questioned by police as a witness,
though not as a suspect. Blair had come to power pledging to
clean up politics.


Fifty-seven percent of Britons believe he has stayed too long in
power, 45 percent think he is no longer in tune with them, while
49 percent seem him as a manipulator.


They have never forgiven him for Iraq, and they are not very
impressed with his health and education reforms, according to a
recent poll in the Observer weekly.


However, Blair appears unperturbed and sure of his decisions.


"It's always difficult when you're in a third term and you're
mid-term," Blair said in a BBC interview on April 15.


"In the last few years I've tried to do what I really think is
right, take difficult decisions on behalf of the country, that I
think are in the country's long-term interests and in the end,
that is, I'm content to be judged in the long term," Blair said.


And what will the verdict be?


Philip Stephens of the Financial Times thinks current criticism
of Blair will "mellow" with time, as it did with Conservative
leader of the 1980s Margaret Thatcher.


"Mr Blair is the most accomplished politician of his generation,"
Stephens told foreign jounalists here.


However, historian Dominic Sandbrook thinks his legacy is
uncertain.


"Just as (US president Richard) Nixon never threw off the
albatross of Watergate, so Blair may never step out from the
shadow of Iraq," Sandbrook said in the Observer.


"Curiously enough, he may be remembered not for what he did, but
for what he failed to do," he said.

