

Japan on Friday hanged three inmates in its first executions this
year amid a growing push to punish crime in one of the world's
safest countries.


The justice ministry confirmed the executions but declined to
disclose details including their names, in line with standard
procedure in Japan.


News reports said the executed men were all convicted murderers.


Japan is the only major industrialised nation other than the
United States to practise the death penalty.


Japan last carried out executions in December, hanging four
inmates on Christmas Day. Those were the first executions after a
15-month gap due to a previous justice minister's opposition to
the death penalty.


Human rights group Amnesty International, which opposes capital
punishment, said that current Justice Minister Jinen Nagase was
stepping up the pace of executions.


"Globally speaking, the use of capital punishment is declining,"
said Makoto Teranaka, a spokesman for Amnesty International
Japan. "Public safety in Japan is also improving. Despite that,
Japan is tending to hand out harsher punishment."


"It's very worrying from the human rights' point of view," he
said.


Kyodo News, citing unnamed sources, named the executed inmates as
Yoshikatsu Oda, Masahiro Tanaka and Kosaku Nada and said they
were hanged separately in prisons in Tokyo, the western city of
Osaka and the southwestern city of Fukuoka.


Oda was sentenced to death in March 2000 for murdering two people
for insurance money in 1990 in Fukuoka prefecture, Kyodo said.


Tanaka was convicted of the murders of four people from 1984 to
1991 in different provinces, while Nada was found to have killed
two people in a 1983 robbery in western Hyogo prefecture, Kyodo
said.


Friday's executions were unusual in that they took place while
parliament was in session. Generally, Japanese authorities hang
inmates when parliament is in recess in an apparent move to avoid
criticism from lawmakers.


Japan has come under fire from human rights groups for the
secrecy of its executions. It gives inmates almost no prior
notice that they will be executed so as to prevent last-minute
appeals.


Japan has one of the world's lowest crime rates. But courts have
been handing out more death sentences amid growing public concern
about violence.


Japan was shocked earlier this month when a gangster with an
apparent personal vendetta shot dead the mayor of Nagasaki.


In February, the number of death row inmates passed 100, although
news reports said the total has slipped to 99 with the
executions.


The best-known person awaiting execution is Shoko Asahara, the
guru of a doomsday cult that attacked rush-hour trains in Tokyo
with nerve gas in a deadly 1995 attack.


Former justice minister Seiken Sugiura refused to sign off on
executions, keeping the death penalty on hold for more than a
year, saying that it conflicted with his Buddhist beliefs.


But Nagase, who replaced Sugiura when conservative Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe took over in September, is a supporter of capital
punishment.


"I am aware of various opinions on the issue, but nearly 80
percent of the people in this country have no objection to the
existence of the death penalty," Nagase had said in December.

