

Stock market trading in Tokyo is expected to be subdued over the
coming week with the market open for only two days due to the
Golden Week holidays, analysts said Friday.


Over the week to April 27, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 index fell by 52.21 points or 0.30 percent to
17,400.41, after a 0.51 percent rise the previous week.


The broader Topix index of all first-section companies decreased
9.07 points or 0.53 percent to 1,701.00, after a gain of 0.27
percent the previous week.


"Even though some stocks are picking up on positive earnings
reports, the market as a whole will remain subdued next week, as
many investors will take days off even on Tuesday and Wednesday
when the market is open," said Ryuta Otsuka, strategist at Toyo
Securities.


Japanese financial markets will be closed on Monday, Thursday and
Friday next week.


Utaka Miura, strategist at Shinko Securities, said "unless
foreign exchange rates move drastically through Monday, the
domestic market will remain quiet.


"Investors wouldn't trade heavily during Golden Week holidays as
they are worried about possible external market-moving factors --
such as a dramatic movement in the US markets," he said.


Japanese share prices closed slightly lower Friday after soft
domestic economic data offset the impact of another record finish
on Wall Street, dealers said.


After the market close Friday, large Japanese corporations
including Matsushita Electric Industrial, All Nippon Airways and
NTT DoCoMo published their annual financial results.


The Bank of Japan meanwhile cut its inflation forecast for the
fiscal year to next March to just 0.1 percent but predicted a
pick-up to 0.5 percent the following year.


But Miura said the effects of the earnings news and BoJ report
appeared to be limited judging by the response of the foreign
exchange market and Nikkei futures trading.


Over the coming week, Otsuka of Toyo Securities said the
Nikkei-225 will hover around 17,500 points while Miura of Shinko
Securities said the index will move within a range of 17,200 and
17,600.

