

Business is booming for private security firms in Casablanca
after a slew of suicide bombings rocked Morocco's economic
capital and fuelled panic across the city.


"Demand has literally exploded," said Mehdi Eddari, managing
director of RMO, Casablanca's oldest and biggest private security
firm.


Five suicide bombers blew themselves up in the port city between
April 10 and 14, sending shockwaves all round and sparking fears
that the country was becoming a haven for Islamic militants.


The city was rocked by another suicide bombing on March 11.


Eddari said the April 10 blast "which occurred in a working-class
district did not generate too much fear as most people viewed it
as something which took place far, far away.


"But the second blast in a busy business district brought upon
them the brutal reality" of the threat, he said.


Abdelfettah Raydi died when he blew himself up in an Internet
cafe on March 11, wounding his suspected accomplice and three
other people. His brother had earlier staged a suicide attack,
killing a policeman.


On April 10, three men blew themselves up and a fourth was killed
by police during a raid to ferret out people involved in the
earlier attacks.


Four days after that, two brothers blew themselves up near to the
US consulate in Casablanca and an American language school.


A policeman died and 45 were injured -- nine of them seriously --
in the explosions.


"We took on 250 extra guards on the weekend after the second
serial blasts," Eddadi said.


"On Saturday it was very busy -- about 10 new clients came to us
seeking protection."


RMO employs 5,000 security guards and has a turnover of 230
million dirhams (20.5 million euros, 27.8 million dollars).


It serves about 800 clients including the 400 biggest firms in
the country.


The new clients include a French primary school located near the
US consulate and an insurance company which also has its offices
near the site of the blast.


"American companies, firms which distribute American products or
others which have a very Anglo-Saxon image are on maximum alert,"
he said.


Others are also reaping the benefits of the windfall.


"We are receiving faxes from everywhere, from companies and
individuals who have become very worried," said Nadia Bekkali,
the head of the VIP Maroc security agency, located a few hundred
metres from the US consulate.


"In one week, we worked as much as we would normally do in two
months," she said.


"During normal times we employ 700 people but we have increased
the workforce by between five and eight percent to meet the
demand."


Her guards have meanwhile asked for additional training.


"Usually each guard gets a three-week training including a day-
and-a-half devoted to methods of fighting terrorism," Bekkali
said.


"But now they want to refresh their expertise especially for
conducting searches and detecting suspects."


Security guards in Morocco are not armed and there are no
regulatory laws for companies providing these services.


"Anybody can set up a security company, they just have to put
together two or three guys, a secretary and find premises," said
Eddari.


But both Eddari and Bekkali however said the wave of fear would
not last.


"It's an emotive market," said Eddari, while Bekkali put it more
poetically, likening the panic to a "cloud which is passing very
slowly."

