

A multinational consortium will build the first high-bandwidth
optical fibre submarine cable system linking Southeast Asia and
the United States at a cost of 500 million US dollars, a member
said Friday.


Singapore telecom operator StarHub, which is part of the
17-member group, said the system, called the Asia-America Gateway
(AAG), is expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of
2008.


Spanning 20,000 kilometres (12,400 miles), the cable system will
connect Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Hong
Kong, the Philippines, Guam, Hawaii and the US West Coast,
StarHub said in a statement.


It will also provide "seamless interconnection" with other
regions like Europe, Australia, Africa and other parts of Asia.


The new cable system will provide a capacity of up to 1.92
terabits per second of data bandwidth which should help meet the
increasing need for faster and more reliable Internet, video,
data and other multimedia services.


For example, the new system can support 130,000 high definition
televison signals simultaneously, the statement said.


The cable system is also designed to provide an "alternative and
more secure link" between Southeast Asia and the United States
and complement existing networks like the APCN2 and the Japan-US
Cable Network.


"This low-risk route was designed to avoid the volatile and
hazardous Pacific Ring, thus mitigating the effects from natural
disasters like earthquakes and tsunamis, which have previously
damaged submarine cable systems resulting in major disruptions to
international Internet links," it said.


A 7.1-magnitude earthquake off Taiwan in December damaged
international underwater cable links, sparking widespread
communications disruption across the region.


StarHub chief executive Terry Clontz said that "with the recent
events of undersea cable cuts and earthquakes, this system
provides much needed international route diversity to minimise
service disruptions."


The consortium members include AT and T of the United States,
British Telecom, Thailand's CAT Telekom, Eastern Telecom of the
Philippines, the Brunei government, PT Indosat of Indonesia and
Cambodia's PCP Company Ltd.


It also includes India's Bharti, the Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Co, Saigon Postel Corp, Australia's Telstra, TELKOM
Indonesia, Telecom New Zealand, Telekom Malaysia, Viettel of
Vietnam, and Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications Group.

