

France on Friday condemned moves by Polish authorities to strip
former foreign minister Bronislaw Geremek of his European
parliament mandate for refusing to say whether he collaborated
with the communist era secret police.


Geremek himself said in a newspaper interview that Poland under
President  Lech Kaczynski and his twin brother, Prime Minister
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, was turning into a George Orwell novel.


French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy called on the
European Union and the European parliament to make official
approaches to the Polish government over Geremek's case.


Geremek, a former Solidarity union and anti-communist activist,
has become the centre of international protests over the
extension of a law which delves into past links to the Polish
secret police.


Geremek, 75, has refused to declare in writing whether he
collaborated with the communist-era secret services.


"His moral authority, his commitment to Europe and his fight for
freedom have made him a symbolic figure in Europe and above all
for the values that Europe carries," Douste-Blazy said on French
radio.


He said the European parliament should pass a resolution calling
on Poland to end its threat to Geremek and that European foreign
ministers should make their own call.


Douste-Blazy called the pressure put on Geremek "frightening".


Geremek fiercely condemned the new law being used against him in
an interview with the Spanish newspaper El Pais published Friday.


He said "we are evolving in a universe which is like that of
George Orwell," the famed author of novels "1984" and "Animal
Farm", both indictments of totalitarian systems.


"This law is anti-democratic and that I decided not to obey it,"
he said.


Former Polish president and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Lech
Walesa, said Poland's ruling Kaczynski twins have "betrayed" the
ideals of the anti-communist Solidarity union and are endangering
democracy.


"They have betrayed our ideals. And not just today and yesterday.
They began to betray them a few years ago," Walesa said in an
interview with the Italian daily La Repubblica.


Walesa, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for helping found
Solidarity, accused the Kaczynski twins of acting out of "their
personal desire for power and for their careers."


Walesa claimed this was "the main reason" for a new law which
requires lawmakers, academics and others to file a declaration
saying whether they collaborated with the communist-era secret
police or risk losing their jobs.


The new measures drastically extend the dragnet of an existing
law, which previously affected only lawmakers, government
ministers and judges.


Those who do not file declarations saying whether or not they
collaborated with the communist-era police risk losing their
jobs.


"Such a (political) climate deeply injures people who find
themselves accused. Now that (Polish) citizens are waking up,
they must get organized. In the future, they must make better
choices when they vote," Walesa said.

