

Three European banks pushed ahead on Friday towards a titanic bid
for Dutch bank ABN Amro, turning up the heat on an agreed deal
with Barclays.


Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander and Fortis said they
intended to launch a formal bid despite rejection by the Dutch of
an initial offer price of 72 billion euros (98.4 billion
dollars), a world banking record.


The trio said they had warned ABN Amro that they intended to
press on with an attack in a message late on Thursday, after the
Dutch management had said it still preferred the deal with
Barclays.


ABN Amro chairman Rijkman Groenink said Barclays was his
company's "ideal partner," lending ammunition to the British
bank.


But later shareholders adopted a motion introduced by hedge fund
TCI calling for the management to "actively pursue any
possibility to sell some or all of the major businesses of the
company to maximise shareholder value."


Either takeover would represent the biggest banking sector
acquisition in history, and create Europe's second biggest bank,
the fifth biggest in the world.


The outcome also impacts on the fate of ABN Amro's American Bank,
LaSalle, which ABN Amro management has agreed with Barclays to
sell as part of a deal.


The banking consortium said on Friday that it wanted to make a
formal offer -- sparking speculation that it was to make an
unsolicited bid.


"Fortis, RBS and Santander announce that they have notified the
supervisory and managing boards of ABN Amro yesterday (Thursday)
evening of their intention to make a public offer for 100 percent
of the issued and outstanding share capital of ABN Amro," the
consortium said in a statement.


It added: "The banks continue to believe that their proposals
offer materially higher value for ABN Amro's shareholders and
benefits to customers and employees compared with the recommended
offer from Barclays."


The RBS consortium had meanwhile requested late Thursday that ABN
remove a requirement which compelled it to seek ABN's prior
authorisation before making a rival bid.


"We haven't got due diligence because we haven't managed to get
clarity on that issue," a source close to the consortium told AFP
on Friday.


"It remains our preference to try and find an agreed constructive
way forward, and we would hope to work with ABN to do that."


In reference to the group's statement on Friday, the source
added: "We have to file this legal and regulatory letter because
we want to keep our options open. It's no more than that."


The consortium proposal was pitched at 39 euros per share --
compared with Barclays' offer of 36.25 euros -- and was dependent
on ABN's US subsidiary LaSalle not being sold.


Prior to ABN's meeting on Thursday, hedge fund group and key
shareholder TCI had threatened to sue ABN Amro if management did
not explore all its options with regard to a takeover.


ABN shareholders have also voiced concern over the group's
decision to rule out a vote on the proposed sale of LaSalle to
Bank of America for 21 billion dollars as part of an agreement
with Barclays.


The US sale is seen by some industry experts as a "poison pill"
introduced to discourage the consortium.

