

Vivian Richards praised the contribution to world cricket of
Muttiah Muralitharan after naming the off-spinner in his team of
the World Cup.


Richards, world cricket's leading batsman during the 1970s and
1980s, said Sri Lanka's Murali and Australia leg-spinner Shane
Warne helped revive the disappearing art of slow bowling after
years where teams such as the dominating West Indies side he
captained had relied on a four-man pace attack.


"There was a craft that was missing for quite some time and they
rekindled the spirit of what spin bowlers can be," said Richards.


Murali, who has taken 23 wickets already during the tournament,
will be aiming to collect his second World Cup winner's medal to
add to the one he won in 1996 when Sri Lanka play double-
defending champions Australia in Saturday's showpiece match at
Barbados's Kensington Oval.


Richards added it was hard to compare players from different
eras.


"Batsmanship will always be, that is why we still here the name
of Don Bradman, that is why we still hear the name of Sir Gary
Sobers. The Don's name still rings in people's minds, even of
people who never saw him play," said the West Indian.


"The one thing that has improved in the game today is fielding.
But batsmen will always be batsmen, bowlers will always be
bowlers."


However, Richards who averaged over 50 in Tests during an era of
fierce fast bowling despite having his head protected by nothing
more than a modest, peaked cap, did indicate that modern batsmen
had perhaps a more comfortable life compared to his duels with
two of Australia's most aggressive quicks.


"We had nasty guys like Jeff Thomson and Dennis Lillee. You see
the guys today, they've got a lid on and all that," said
Richards.


"If you'd asked the guys today to face Dennis Lillee today
without a grille or a helmet they would find it quite hard."


Vivian Richards's team of the World Cup:


Matthew Hayden (AUS), Kumar Sangakkara (SRI, wk), Ricky Ponting
(AUS, capt), Kevin Pietersen (ENG), Mahela Jayawardene (SRI),
Herschelle Gibbs (RSA), Scott Styris (NZL), Shaun Tait (AUS),
Shane Bond (NZL), Glenn McGrath (AUS), Muttiah Muralitharan (SRI)

