

Departing Chinese foreign minister Li Zhaoxing presided over an
expansion of Beijing's global diplomatic presence, especially in
Africa, although he received mixed reviews Friday of his work.


China announced that Li, 66, had stepped down on Friday after
four years in the post and had been replaced by vice foreign
minister Yang Jiechi.


Li became known as one of China's most well-travelled foreign
ministers as, under his watch, resource-hungry China reached out
aggressively to energy-rich nations in Africa and elsewhere.


He also oversaw the complicated six-nation talks aimed at
curtailing North Korea's nuclear programme, a forum that began in
2003 and which China hosts.


A former ambassador to the United States, Li took the foreign
affairs portfolio in 2003 amid concerns that he was too
unpolished for the job and never quite lived down the criticism,
analysts said.


"Li Zhaoxing has been an enthusiastic and eager foreign minister,
but there has been some criticism of his image, and some say he
does not know much about foreign affairs," said Jin Linbo, a
researcher from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.


Though past retirement age, China's failure to promote Li to a
post in China's inner circle indicated some dissatisfaction with
his performance, said Joseph Cheng, an expert in Chinese politics
at the City University of Hong Kong.


"He has certainly been a below-average foreign minister for
China. In various international forums, he has not been able to
impress the diplomatic community as an effective foreign minister
from a major power like China," Cheng said.


However, Cheng said the timing of Li's replacement, the highest-
profile of four ministerial changes announced Friday was
"natural," coming ahead of an important five-yearly Communist
Party Congress in the autumn.


Li has been in China's foreign service for most of the past 40
years, serving previously in various posts in Africa.


He had been active up to the end of his tenure, taking several
recent multi- country trips to Africa and other regions.


True to his legacy, Li's last official meeting with a foreign
diplomat was with Chad's foreign minister to discuss expanded
Chinese access to that country's oil fields.

