

Taliban violence erupted across Afghanistan with rebels killing a
district governor and police chief in the southeast and dozens of
militants attacking NATO troops in the west Friday.


The Taliban claimed it had captured Giro district in the volatile
eastern province of Ghazni after killing its leadership and six
policemen in an attack late Thursday.


"The district is in control of Taliban," spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi
told AFP.


But this was dismissed by an officer at the Ghazni police
headquarters.


"In a Taliban attack last night the district governor and
district police chief were killed, that is true," the officer
said on condition of anonymity.


"Since the district authorities have been killed, of course there
is a gap in power," he said.


"But the Taliban are not in control of the district. The
provincial police headquarters are in an emergency meeting to
immediately appoint a new district chief and police chief with
some fresh forces and send them to the district."


The Taliban have briefly captured several districts in a campaign
that has steadily gained intensity since it was launched after
the ultra-conservative movement was booted from government in
late 2001.


But Afghan authorities and its allies in the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) say they rebels
are easily driven out the areas they occupy -- all of which have
been remote and under-policed.


Early Friday meanwhile about 50 Taliban fighters attacked ISAF
soldiers in the western province of Herat, sparking a three-hour
gun battle, Shindand district governor Khudaidad Arfani said.


ISAF war planes retaliated. "NATO air strikes on the Taliban
killed at least one Taliban and five other people whose identity
is not confirmed have been wounded and taken to hospital," he
said.


Separately a detective and his brother were gunned down in the
eastern province of Khost and four policemen and six militants
were killed in a battle Wednesday in Uruzgan in the south,
officials said.


The Taliban insurgency, which makes heavy use of suicide and
roadside bombings, was at its deadliest last year with more than
4,000 people killed -- most of them rebels.


About 1,000 people have lost their lives to the violence this
year, according to an AFP tally, with the security forces and
militants stepping up their campaigns in a bitter battle that has
made the population increasingly wary.

