

Indonesian police said Friday they were closing in on the
masterminds of the murder of a respected rights activist who died
from arsenic poisoning on a flight to Amsterdam.


Police revealed they knew who carried out the killing of Munir
Said Thalib, whose drink was laced in 2004 during a stopover at
Singapore's Changi airport, as well as the motive.


"We know the motive behind the murder and we are now
investigating who was  the mastermind behind it," national police
spokesman Sisno Adiwinoto said.


Police have reopened the Munir investigation after the murder
conviction of Garuda airlines pilot Pollycarpus Priyanto, the
only person charged over his death, was quashed by the Supreme
Court last year.


Adiwinoto said new evidence would soon be submitted to the
attorney general to support a judicial review of the case.


Earlier this month, the former head of the national carrier and
another former Garuda executive were arrested for questioning
over the falsification of documents that allowed off-duty
Priyanto to travel on Munir's flight.


Police said Thursday they were interviewing fresh witnesses in
the case.


The Indonesian government has come under international pressure
over the case amid concerns of footdragging over the
investigation because of links to the country's national
intelligence agency.


Munir made powerful enemies through his campaigning during the
rule of former dictator Suharto. He had worked to expose military
involvement in human rights violations, including during East
Timor's 1999 vote for independence from Indonesia.


Separately Friday, Priyanto said he had sent letters to President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and the attorney general protesting the
review of the case.


"We hope the attorney general will cancel his plans to review my
case because there is no basis for it," he told reporters.


His lawyer Adnan Wirawan outlined at a press conference a range
of legal reasons in the letter against the review.


"We support Munir's family's efforts to find who killed him, but
we are afraid innocent people are being accused (in the
process)," said Wirawan.


Priyanto was released from prison in December after receiving
three months' remission on his sentence for a different charge.

