

All Nippon Airways said Friday its net profit grew by nearly a
quarter and its revenue hit a new record in the year to March as
more Japanese flew overseas thanks to a recovering economy.


Japan's second largest carrier, which has enjoyed healthy
earnings as its rival Japan Airlines stumbles in recent years,
said it benefitted from the popularity of new or expanded routes
to China, Singapore and Chicago.


All Nippon Airways (ANA) said its net profit grew 22.2 percent to
32.6 billion yen (274 million dollars) in the year to March, the
second strongest performance in the company's history.


Operating profit grew 3.8 percent to 92.1 billion yen and revenue
rose 8.8 percent to 1.49 trillion yen, both company records.


"We have seen strong demand for both business and leisure travel
in tandem with the performance of the Japanese economy as a
whole," Mineo Yamamoto, president and CEO, said in a statement.


The number of passengers on domestic routes increased 2.2 percent
while international traffic grew by 10.1 percent to 4.6 million
people, both new records, ANA said.


"On international flights, ANA completely recovered from the
impact of anti- Japanese demonstrations in China the previous
year," Tomohiro Hidema, a senior ANA executive, told a news
conference.


However, ANA said its profits were still squeezed by high oil
costs, with the fuel bill 31.3 percent higher than in the
previous year.


"It is necessary to keep an eye on the expansion of geopolitical
risks in the Middle East which continue to sustain fears of a
spike in oil costs," ANA said in a statement.


The company predicted net profits would grow 31.4 percent in the
current financial year to hit 64 billion yen thanks to the giant
sale of its hotel business to Morgan Stanley.


The US investment banking giant agreed earlier this month to buy
the 13 hotels for 281.3 billion yen (2.4 billion dollars) in what
is believed to be the largest real estate deal in Japanese
history.


ANA said it also hoped to draw more passengers in the coming year
with expected delivery of 15 new airplanes.

