

French retail giant Carrefour has put on hold plans to invest in
India due to concerns over political opposition to multinational
retailers entering the market, a report said Friday.


Indian business daily The Economic Times said Carrefour, the
world's second largest retailer, also wanted to see how Wal-Mart
fared in the Indian market before stepping in.


"We are waiting for some more clarity on the Bharti-Wal-Mart
structure," Carrefour's Indian operations head Gerard Freiszmuth
was quoted as saying.


Mobile phone major Bharti Enterprises has said its planned retail
venture with US supermarket giant Wal-Mart complies with Indian
rules on the sector.


Freiszmuth said Carrefour was awaiting results of a study
commissioned in February by the government examining the impact
of multinational retailers on small domestic stores.


Sonia Gandhi, whose Congress Party heads the federal coalition
government, had called for the study, saying she was worried that
the entry of multinational retailers could threaten millions of
small businesses.


India does not allow foreign direct investment in the retail
sector except for single-brand stores, meaning foreign companies
have to sign franchise deals with local companies to gain access.


"We will not be in a position to announce any concrete India
entry plan till policy issues on FDI (foreign direct investment)
in retail are made clear," Freiszmuth said.


"We have been looking at India as an attractive destination and
hope to have a long-term association with the country. We are
studying and understanding the various pros and cons and will not
make an announcement in haste," he said.


Last month, a source at Indian business giant Reliance said the
company was in advanced tie-up talks with Carrefour for a retail
venture but the French retailer later denied it was in
negotiations.


Top foreign retailers have been jostling for a slice of what has
been dubbed India's great "retail rush" amid higher spending by a
fast-growing middle class.

