

Sri Lanka was on high alert Friday over the threat of another
Tamil Tiger air attack, the morning after a suspicious aircraft
forced the closure of the island's only international airport.


"We are on alert. In fact, every day we are on alert now and we
have beefed up our measures," air force spokesman Ajantha Silva
said.


Overnight Thursday, the sky over the Katunayake international
airport near Colombo -- where government warplanes are also
stationed, sharing a runway with civilian passenger jets -- was
lit up with anti-aircraft gunfire.


Authorities also switched off electricity to the capital so that
potential targets would not be illuminated.


"Sri Lanka's air force engaged its air defence weapons at a
suspicious aircraft observed in the Katunayake sky," the defence
ministry said during the night.


It said the "suspicious air move" was also detected by radar, but
there was no rebel attack using the aircraft.


The rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), who have been
fighting the government for 35 years and run a mini-state in the
north of the island, bombed the Katunayake airbase a month ago in
their first ever air strike.


The separatist rebels also carried out a second air raid on the
Palaly military complex in the island's north on Tuesday.


A total of nine security personnel were killed and 30 wounded in
the two air attacks by the Tigers, who are believed to have a
small fleet of Czech-made Zlin Z-143 single-engined light
aircraft.


The planes are believed to have been smuggled in pieces into the
north of the island by boat, and can be flown from tiny makeshift
airstrips in the jungle.


The LTTE attacks have also caused havoc for international
passenger flights.


Overnight, two incoming Sri Lankan Airlines flights were diverted
to the nearby south Indian state of Tamil Nadu, before continuing
their journey later Friday morning, airport officials said.


A Singapore Airlines aircraft, which was at the airport at the
time the runway was shut down, was also delayed.


The attack alert came the day after Hong Kong carrier Cathay
Pacific resumed flights to Colombo, which had been suspended
after last month's attack.


To make matters worse for Sri Lankan authorities, a helicopter
gunship scrambled to detect the suspect plane ran into technical
difficulties and crash-landed just outside Anuradhapura airbase
in the government-held north, military sources said. No one was
seriously injured.

