

Tony Blair marks 10 years as British prime minister on May 2,
just as a new play at a London theatre puts him in the dock over
his decision to take the country to war with Iraq.


"Called to account: The indictment of Anthony Charles Lynton
Blair for the crime of aggression against Iraq -- a Hearing"
looks back at the months leading up to the British invasion in
March 2003 alongside the United States.


With Blair's decade in power being picked over as the anniversary
approaches, and his resignation expected within weeks, the timely
play taps into talk of his legacy and the view that Iraq was his
greatest mistake.


Earlier this year, a drama on Britain's Channel 4 television did
a similar thing, imagining a not-too-distant future when Blair,
out of office, is extradited to face a war crimes trial over
Iraq.


Written by journalist Richard Norton-Taylor and directed by
Nicholas Kent, "Called to account" dramatises the real-life
testimony of 11 people, official documents and statements to
build the case for and against Blair.


Three grey tables are set up on stage in a U formation with five
red office chairs: two for the prosecution lawyers, two for the
defence. The fifth is for the witnesses who give evidence and
face a barrage of cross-examination.


Witnesses include Juan Gabriel Valdes, Chile's former UN
ambassador who took part in the security council talks on Iraq,
Blair's former international development secretary Clare Short,
who resigned over the war, and US President George W. Bush's
former aide Richard Perle.


The witnesses' testimony was gathered earlier this year by four
lawyers, including Philippe Sands, a specialist in international
law, and Julian Knowles, a criminal law and human rights expert.


Sands leads the prosecution while Knowles leads the defence in
the play at the Tricycle Theatre in Kilburn, north-west London,
which has built a reputation for itself for staging political,
often controversial, drama.


The Times newspaper's critic praised the production for giving
the impression of actually hearing the real people speak.


Clare Short tells how Blair's Cabinet inner-circle of senior
ministers never discussed the Iraq invasion in depth and how
Blair had even told her several times that there would no
military action without UN approval.


The invasion was launched on March 20, 2003 without a second UN
resolution. Short resigned on May 12.


She quit Blair's governing Labour Party in October last year,
complaining of "a concentration of power in Number 10 (Downing
Street, Blair's official London residence) that has produced
arrogant, error prone government".


The play ends without the curtain falling or the actors taking a
bow, leaving it for the audience to decide whether Blair -- who
is not represented on stage -- is guilty or not guilty.


"I think in the end the prosecution doesn't win," director Kent
told The Times on Monday. "In my view the prosecution wins
morally, but not legally."


:: "Called to account: The indictment of Anthony Charles Lynton
Blair for the crime of aggression against Iraq -- a Hearing" runs
until May 19.

