

UN Security Council envoys began a visit Friday to Kosovo to
observe the breakaway Serbian province's readiness for supervised
independence as proposed in a plan they must soon vote on.


The ambassadors of the peak 15-nation body met with the United
Nations mission, UNMIK, which has run the ethnic Albanian-
dominated province since the end of its 1998-1999 war.


They held talks with UNMIK chief Joachim Ruecker and the
commander of NATO-led KFOR troops, Roland Kather, before meeting
with Kosovo Albanian leaders and visiting the tense ethnically
divided town of Mitrovica.


"We informed them about the achievements in Kosovo," Kosovo
President Fatmir Sejdiu told reporters in Pristina at the end of
the meeting. "We think the time has come, after this important
visit, for the end of the process."


"Kosovo is committed and, without any doubt, it will build a
democratic and modern state for all its citizens no matter their
ethnic background or their proportion," said the ethnic Albanian
leader.


On the representatives' first stop in Belgrade, Serbian Prime
Minister Vojislav Kostunica told them Thursday that Kosovo should
be given "supervised autonomy" rather than independence as
proposed by UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari.


Belgium ambassador Johan Verbeke, who heads the delegation, said
Belgrade had informed them that Serbs view the province as
country's historic heartland.


"We had a quite productive meeting. There is a willingness to
look for a solution without any violence or threat of violence,"
Verbeke said.


Kosovo, a southern Serbian province, has been run by the United
Nations since mid-1999, after NATO bombing helped to drive out
Serbian forces who were waging a brutal crackdown against ethnic
Albanians.


Ahtisaari, a Finnish diplomat tasked by the UN with finding a
solution to Kosovo's status, has seen his idea for
internationally supervised independence backed by Kosovo Albanian
leaders, the United States and European Union.


But Serbia, which has won support from veto-wielding Security
Council member Russia, has rejected his proposal by as a
violation of its territorial integrity.


During the Kosovo conflict, some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and
hundreds of thousands fled. After the Serbian military left,
Serbian civilians in the province faced reprisal attacks by
ethnic Albanian extremists.


A few thousand of the estimated 220,000 Serbs who fled Kosovo
held a demonstration overnight on the administrative border
between Kosovo and Serbia proper to press their case to the UN
envoys.


"I keep hoping to return, but I doubt it will happen," said one
of them, Srebra Vasic, who is originally from the northern Kosovo
town of Gnjilane.


"I don't expect anything from this UN mission. I hope Russia will
do something for us, but God knows whether their opinion matters
in today's world," said Vasic, who has been living in a refugee
centre in the southern Serbian town of Negotin for the past eight
years.


Speaking about the Kosovo Serb problem, UNMIK chief Ruecker said
earlier that the community had "limited" itself by choosing not
to cooperate with the Pristina authorities.


"It is not fair to isolate yourself and then complain about
isolation," he said ahead of the UN mission's arrival.


At the end of their two-day visit to Kosovo, the UN envoys are
due to head to Vienna on Saturday to hold talks with Ahtisaari
before a debate next month on his proposals before the Security
Council.

