

Several Indian lawyers have voiced outrage over a warrant issued
for the arrest for Hollywood star Richard Gere after he kissed
Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty at an AIDS awareness event,
reports said Friday.


"Magistrates should not behave like the Taliban moral police. The
order is unsustainable and makes us looks ridiculous," former
Indian attorney general Soli Sorabjee told the Times of India.


The warrant for Gere and summons of Shetty were issued in the
Rajasthan state capital of Jaipur on Thursday following a public
interest plea filed last week by a local lawyer Poonam Chand
Bhandari, who accused the pair of obscenity.


The magistrate had found the incident in violation of section 294
of the penal code which states that, "Whosoever to the annoyance
of others does any obscene act in any public place shall be
punished with imprisonment of three months or with a fine or
both."


Gere embraced the 31-year-old Shetty -- winner of Britain's
Celebrity Big Brother reality show -- and planted several playful
kisses on her cheek in front of thousands of onlookers at the
AIDS function in the Indian capital New Delhi earlier this month.


Shetty was ordered by the magistrate to appear in court on May 5
and not to leave the country before then, a court official said.


The incident triggered a public storm in India, known for its
chaste public behaviour despite Bollywood's sexually suggestive
song-and-dance routines.


Radical Hindus burned effigies of the 57-year-old Gere in India's
entertainment hub of Mumbai and organised street rallies in New
Delhi.


"The arrest warrant is contrary to all judicial norms. A
consensual kiss can never be an offence," lawyer K.T.S. Tulsi was
quoted as saying.


"Are we a banana republic that such orders are passed... the high
court should quash the order," said another lawyer Mukul Rohtagi.


Gere, who left India soon after the event, is a frequent visitor
as a follower of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, who
lives in northern India in exile. He also visits India in his
capacity as an AIDS awareness campaigner.


India has the largest number of HIV-AIDS cases in the world, with
5.7 million people infected, according to the Geneva-based
UNAIDS.


Shetty had appealed for calm after the kissing incident, saying
Gere had asked her to say he was "sorry if he has hurt the
sentiments of Indian people."


"Nothing of that sort happened about which I should feel bad or
any other Indian should feel bad," said Shetty.


Shetty shot to international fame after appearing in the British
TV programme and winning after being subjected to alleged racist
bullying during the show.

