

Indonesia and Singapore are set to sign a landmark extradition
treaty later Friday which is seen as opening a new chapter in
sometimes testy ties between the neighbours.


Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and Singapore Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong were due to meet on the holiday island
of Bali to witness the signing, which Jakarta has long sought in
its fight against corruption.


A pact by the countries' defence ministers was also expected to
be sealed at Tampaksiring palace outside Denpasar to strengthen
military ties, including holding joint military training sessions
in future.


But the focus is on the treaty, which Indonesia says will allow
it to chase down alleged corrupt officials and business people
from the time of former dictator Suharto.


A list of 20 suspects had been drawn up, and would be handed over
to Singapore almost as soon as the signing was over, a senior
Indonesian official said Friday.


"We have put together a list of people that are either suspected,
accused or convicted (of corruption). We are ready," said
Hendarman Supanji, a deputy attorney general, told reporters in
Jakarta.


Supanji, whose office is handling the cases, did not release
names.


Jakarta had accused Singapore of long delaying the treaty on
fears Indonesian suspects would withdraw their money and shakeup
the wealthy island-nation's financial system and property sector.


Singapore has denied the financial hub was a magnet for laundered
funds, saying adequate safeguards were in place to prevent such
abuses.


Former prime minister Lee Kuan Yew said this week the treaty,
negotiations for which started in 2005, would not scare away rich
Indonesians wanting to live in the city-state nor hurt the
sectors.


But more than aiding the fight against corruption, the accord,
finalised during talks between the two foreign ministers on
Monday, is expected to bolster bilateral ties.


"We strongly believe that the conclusions of these two agreements
would strongly contribute in our joint efforts to strengthen our
bilateral relations," said Foreign Minister Hassan Wirayuda after
the talks.


"Goodwill is in ample supply on both sides so we were able to
reach a good agreement for both the extradition treaty and
defence cooperation," added his Singapore counterpart George Yeo.


Some analysts believe Singapore could have been pressured into
agreeing to the treaty by Indonesia's abrupt decision in January
to ban sand exports.


Stricter checks by the Indonesian authorities on potential sand
smugglers also affected granite exports to Singapore -- a move
that hurt contractors who rely on the two key ingredients for the
island's booming construction sector.


Ties were boosted greatly after Singapore mobilised its armed
forces to help in a massive humanitarian relief operation
following the 2004 tsunami which devastated Indonesia's Aceh
province.

