

President Rafael Correa expelled the World Bank's representative
from Ecuador, accusing the institution of trying to extort money
from him when he was economy minister in 2005, officials said
Thursday.


The leftist president, in office since January, has charged that
the global development lender suspended a 100-million-dollar loan
for Ecuador in 2005 in retaliation for his reform of the
country's oil sector.


The foreign ministry said in a statement that Correa declared
World Bank official Eduardo Somensatto of Brazil "persona non
grata" -- a diplomatic term equivalent to an expulsion -- and
immediately informed the Washington-based bank.


According to diplomatic sources, the letter implies the
representative's expulsion but does not necessarily mean the
suspension of the bank's activities in Quito.


"The declaration of persona non grata implies that Somensatto
should leave the country urgently, a bit urgently or not urgently
at all," Jose Luis Moreno, a former diplomat, was quoted as
saying in the newspaper El Comercio.


The foreign ministry said the World Bank was notified of the
decision by letter Tuesday to the bank's offices in Washington
and Quito. At the time, Somensatto was outside the Ecuadoran
capital, it said.


Ecuador has also decided to have any loans still due to it from
the World Bank suspended, Economy Minister Ricardo Patino told
reporters Thursday.


In Washington, the World Bank said it wanted to keep open its
communication channels with the Ecuadoran government and was
evaluating the implications of Somensatto's "withdrawal."


"We reiterate the willingness of the institution to maintain
dialogue at the highest level with the nation's authorities," the
bank said in a statement.


Correa had announced on three occasions since April 15 that
Somensatto would soon be expelled in reprisal for the freezing of
a 10-million-dollar World Bank credit while Correa was economy
minister under then president Alfredo Palacio in 2005.


Correa said the bank froze the credit to punish him for reforming
the oil industry, and accused the multilateral lender of
"extortion."


Correa's reform was designed to create an oil fund to buy back
the Ecuador's sovereign foreign debt.


"When I became minister and turned out not to be a messenger boy
for the World Bank, they held the check," Correa said on April
21.


"They messed us around for three months, and when I went to
Washington, they told me that they did it because we reformed our
law. That is, they punished a sovereign country for rewriting its
own law," he said.


"Ecuador is a sovereign country and we will not stand for
extortion from this international bureaucracy," said Correa.


Correa favors overturning the neoliberal economic policies of his
predecessors and strengthening the role of the state in several
sectors of the economy.

