

Noriah Masukume weaves her way through the crowded hall at
Harare's international bus terminus as she notes orders from a
customer on the cellphone before boarding a bus to South Africa.


On the bus she exchanges pleasantries with fellow travellers
engaged in small talk around escalating prices in the local
stores, their families and how difficult it is becoming for
traders who go on shopping sprees in South Africa.


"It's not easy," Masukume, a nurse at a private hospital in the
capital who doubles as a cross-border trader, told an AFP
correspondent when the coach stopped in the town of Masvingo for
a brief recess during the 16-hour-plus journey to Johannesburg.


"From the long hours on the bus, the hostility we sometimes
encounter and tugging the luggage along at the border when we
head home. This is supposed to be my time off from work but I
can't afford the luxury to relax.


"I cannot afford to feed and clothe my family on my salary alone
so I have to do an extra job. There are many professionals in
similar circumstances."


Masukume is among thousands of Zimbabweans who earn a living by
buying goods from neighbouring Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia and
Zambia but mostly South Africa for resale back home.


"This is the only job I have known," said 23-year-old college
leaver Ngoni Chimhowa, who travels to the northern South African
town of Musina to buy cooking oil and soap for resale.


Zimbabwe's economy has been on a downturn spiral over the past
seven years characterised by four-digit inflation which stood at
1,730 percent in February and an unemployment rate which has left
four in every five people jobless.


At least 80 percent of the population is living below the poverty
threshold with the average worker earning 90,000 Zimbabwe dollars
(265 euros, 359 US dollars), according to the Zimbabwe Congress
of Trade Unions, while an average family of five needs at least
one million dollars for basic foodstuffs and toiletries.


While in the past cross-border traders were mainly elderly women
with little formal education, professionals struggling to stretch
their salaries to the next pay day have taken to moonlighting to
supplement their pay.


Among familiar faces on the bus, Masukume points at three
schoolteachers, a fellow nurse and several government employees.


The trans-frontier shoppers spend hundreds and sometimes
thousands of dollars buying anything from cartons of cooking oil
and laundry soap, perennially in short supply in Zimbabwe to
gadgets like top-of-the range television sets, computers,
fridges, solar panels and car spares.


"Zimbabweans are in the majority of our customers," says Abel
Tsikwa, a Zimbabwean immigrant working as a sales assistant in a
wholesaler's shop in Johannesburg's Crown Mines district.


"They are known for spending huge amounts of money -- up to
thousands of rand on grocery. One is left wondering whether these
people are coming from a country with an ailing economy."


Zimbabwe is facing an acute shortage of basic goods like sugar,
cooking oil and milk as factories reeling under ever-rising
operation costs have either pulled down the shutters or have
scaled down their operations.


The chronic shortages have spawned a burgeoning black market
where cross-border traders supply goods quoting prices at the
parallel market currency rates -- in some cases up to 10 times
the official price.


So lucrative is the trade that some traders shuttle between
Harare and South Africa up to four times a month and supply
scarce goods to leading chain stores back home.


At Johannesburg's Park Station, Zimbabwean cross-border shoppers
stand out as they bring in carts full of groceries and gadgets
with help from pushcart operators who shuttle between nearby
lodges and the bus station.


On the buses returning to Harare or the second city of Bulawayo
boxes, bags of groceries which cannot fit the side compartments
occupy seats on the bus.


"There is usually more luggage than passengers on the buses to
Harare and Bulawayo," a  bus driver who regularly plies the
Harare - Johannesburg route told an AFP correspondent while
helping travellers load their goods onto the bus at Park Station.


Economists have bundled the importation of basics together with
other factors such as depleted exports, among the propellers of
the country's run-away inflation.


Victor Zirebgwa, an economist with the financial thinktank
Techfin Financial Research, said: "The importation of goods has a
negative bearing because most of the money used to buy these
goods is sourced from the black market."

