

Feverish speculation continued Sunday in Britain as to who and
what was behind Prince William's shock split from his university
sweetheart Kate Middleton.


British newspapers on Sunday picked over the bones of the break-
up, but with conflicting accounts of why they went their separate
ways.


The split between the dashing prince, second in line to the
throne, and his girlfriend of four years, was given blanket
coverage in Britain's press.


The News of the World tabloid said the end of the romance was
decided at a gathering of "The Firm" -- the mafia-style nickname
for the senior royals.


The newspaper said army officer William, 24, told his family that
Middleton, 25, wanted more from their relationship but he did not
want to commit.


That prompted his grandmother Queen Elizabeth II to intervene and
his grandfather Prince Philip -- the member of The Firm in charge
of family business -- to tell him: "You can't string her along
for ever."


"Don't rush down the aisle -- we don't want another Diana," Queen
Elizabeth was said to have told him, referring to the first
marriage of William's father Prince Charles to Lady Diana
Spencer, which ended in divorce in 1996.


A senior royal courtier was quoted as saying: "It's clear the
queen doesn't want William to go through a carbon copy rerun of
his father, marrying the wrong woman."


But according to The Sunday Telegraph, it was Charles who told
his eldest son to reach a "make or break" decision.


"This is history repeating itself as Prince Philip told Charles
during his courtship of Diana that he had to make his intentions
known fairly swiftly, which ultimately led to disastrous
consequences as he was not ready to marry."


The Mail on Sunday said William decided to end it because he felt
the "fun" had gone from their relationship.


There were also underlying tensions among William's set about her
middle-class upbringing, it added. Middleton is the daughter of
millionaires who made their fortune in the children's party
paraphernalia business.


Like a number of newspapers, The Mail on Sunday said things came
to a head three weeks ago after pictures appeared of a drunken
William partying with army colleagues and two women in the
southern English coast resort of Bournemouth.


Many newspapers said William could come to regret his decision,
as Middleton was seen as a grounded, level-headed woman who could
help turn round the stuffy image of the royal family.


The Sunday Times, which speculated on possible replacements for
Middleton from the "glossy posse" of "blue-bloods, models and
billionaires' daughters", quoted one close friend as saying
simply: "The timing was wrong.


"Wills met her five years too early."


Neither party was to blame, nor was the increasingly intrusive
nature of the newspaper attention Middleton was receiving or his
army commitments, the friend added.


"William needs to live his life a bit," the friend said, not
ruling out that they would get together again in the future.


Top British publicist Max Clifford said the two's next lovers
will get "massive media coverage."


William would be in "an impossible position" as women -- some
genuine, some not -- line up to be his next girlfriend, whereas
Middleton's next boyfriend would get "a massive amount of
attention."


The Observer analysed the fall-out assessing that it would now be
difficult for Middleton -- a clothes buyer for a fashion firm --
to be anything other than the "girl who was almost queen".


Ingrid Seward, the editor of Majesty magazine, said Middleton was
now in a "powerful position" to launch a successful career
outside royal circles.


"I am sure she will dedicate herself to her career," she said.


"She will go into fashion and she could do fantastically well.
She is a smart person and anyone would be pleased to snap her up.


"I think she would rather get on with her life.


"I am sure she will get herself together; she doesn't really have
much choice."


The News of the World and the Sunday Mirror said William drowned
his sorrows with friends at a trendy London club on Friday night.


The latter said the cocktail-crazed group racked up an
11,000-pound (16,000-euro, 22,000-dollar) bar bill and the prince
said: "I'm not 36, I'm not married... I want to have fun."

