

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene says his side's self-belief
means they can do what no other team has managed since the 1999
World Cup - beat Australia.


The reigning champions, chasing an unprecedented third successive
title, have gone 25 games unbeaten at the World Cup since losing
to Pakistan at Headingley eight years ago, a sequence that
includes their famous tied semi-final against South Africa in
1999.


Australia's nine-wicket thrashing of Ireland on Friday was their
19th straight World Cup win and meant they became the first team
in the Caribbean to qualify for the semi-finals.


But Sri Lanka, despite being without injured fast bowler Lasith
Malinga, beat fellow title contenders New Zealand by six wickets
on Thursday and Jayawardene cannot wait for Monday's Super Eights
fixture at the Grenada National Stadium.


"I think we have a very good record against them," said
Jayawardene. "Why? Because we play our brand of cricket and we
are not afraid of doing that."


Malinga, who had been the tournament's leading bowler until his
injury with 15 wickets, turned his arm over in the nets on
Saturday for 15 minutes before having his injured left ankle
heavily strapped.


The 23-year-old, whose unorthodox action makes him difficult for
batsmen to pick up, hasn't played against Australia and
Jayawardene admitted there was a case for keeping him 'hidden'
until a possible meeting with Ricky Ponting's side in either the
semi-finals or final.


"That's one way to look at it but there are so many other ways to
look at it."


Sri Lanka need one more win from their two Super Eights matches -
they play Ireland on Wednesday - to be certain of a semi-final
spot and Jayawardene said it was vital the likes of 1996 World
Cup winning bowlers Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan
maintained their recent form.


"Australia are getting good starts and there hasn't been that
much emphasis on their middle order so that's one area we'll be
thinking about," he explained. "They've got a good balanced
bowling attack as well."


Sri Lanka's last one-day win against Australia, in Adelaide in
January 2006 saw Tillakaratne Dilshan involved in four run-outs
of home batsmen.


And Jayawardene praised the off-spinning all-rounder as one of
the "dirty work" players all successful sides needed.


"Most of the teams do have that all-rounder in their side who
does all the dirty work for you, gets that 30 or 40 runs, bowls
five or six overs, gets you one or two wickets and probably pick
up a half-chance or a run-out."


Meanwhile, Australia quick Glenn McGrath said opener Sanath
Jayasuriya, whose dynamic batting played a major role in Sri
Lanka's World Cup triumph 11 years ago, was a key target.


"There is no doubt he is a great player and we'd like to get on
top of him early and knock him over," said McGrath, on the losing
side in the 1996 final.


"From what we've seen, the pitch in Grenada is slower and takes
some turn. It will be a big test for us and probably suit Sri
Lanka."


McGrath, the World Cup's leading bowler of all-time with 63
wickets, said that Australia's lack of a close game in the
Caribbean wouldn't be an issue as the World Cup neared its
conclusion.


And the 37-year-old, due to retire after the tournament, insisted
now was the time when players such as himself and fellow two-time
World Cup winners Ponting and Adam Gilchrist would come into
their own.


"The next two weeks for us is the showcase time for the whole
tournament, and our senior players, who have been in World Cups
before, I think that's when you'll see them stand up and start
enjoying the tournament for what it is."

