

Celebrities from Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and South Korea were
set to gather here Sunday for Hong Kong's film awards, but the
event has struggled to attract some of the big-name nominees.


Chinese director Zhang Yimou and martial arts master Jet Li will
be absent from the 26th Hong Kong Film Awards, while actors Gong
Li and Chow Yun-fat and director Johnnie To are doubtful
attendees as they are busy shooting movies.


The stars who are expected to tread the red carpet include Tony
Leung Chiu-wai, Tony Leung Ka-fai, Aaron Kwok, Taiwan's Jay Chou
as well as South Korean stars Song Hye Kyo and Kwon Sang Woo.


The gala will be held before an 1,000-strong audience at the
harbour-front Hong Kong Cultural Centre and, for the first time,
members of the public will be able to watch the ceremony in an
open-air area outside the venue.


Although Zhang's "The Curse of the Golden Flower" starring Gong
and Chow received the most nominations, critics predicted that
To's gangster saga "Election 2" and Patrick Tam's family drama
"After This Our Exile" could share the major honours.


"The Hong Kong Film Awards is like the Oscars. It is very
political. The winners don't always reflect the quality of a
film," said movie critic Shum Longtin.


"'The Curse of the Golden Flower' is a very good film and my
personal favourite. But it is seen as a mainland Chinese film
with a mainland subject. So it could lose out," he said.


Zhang's colourful martial arts epic has received 14 nods, while
"After This Our Exile" -- an art-house film about a single and
abusive father who turns to gambling -- garnered 10 nominations.


Critics predicted that "Election 2" and "After This Our Exile" --
Tam's first film in 17 years -- would be top contenders for the
best film and director awards, while "Golden Flower" could take
home the top acting trophies.


"Election 2 is a very ambitious and outstanding film and Tam's
movie was also good. The best film and best director prizes may
properly be split between those two," Shum said.


To's other gangster movie "Exiled" has earned four nominations,
including nods for best director and best film, but critics say
it is weaker than "Election 2" and has a lesser chance to take
home top honours.


Chow is expected to trump rivals for the best actor title -- the
charismatic Tony Leung Chiu-wai for his work in the thriller
"Confession of Pain" and Li for his portrayal of martial arts
master Huo Yuanjia in "Fearless".


Critics say Gong is a clear favourite for the best actress crown.


Chinese starlet Zhou Xun will go up against Gong for her work in
"The Banquet" which earned seven nominations, mostly in minor
categories.

