

The Philippines rejoiced Sunday at the victory of boxing
superstar Manny Pacquiao over his Mexican opponent in Texas, with
even political rivals promising him a "hero's welcome" upon his
return.


The fight was aired live on giant television screens in various
parts of the country, including the southern city of General
Santos where Pacquiao is using his boxing fame to run for a
congressional seat.


President Gloria Arroyo congratulated the hugely popular boxer
for his victory over previously-unbeaten Jorge Solis, saying "the
fighting faith of Manny Pacquiao is the fighting faith of the
Filipino."


She said his victories in world competition should be matched by
the country's victory over "poverty and injustice."


Arroyo's husband, Jose Miguel Arroyo, who is still recovering
from major heart surgery on Tuesday, was not allowed to watch the
fight as it might make him too emotional. His doctors said they
would inform him of the outcome later.


In General Santos City, Congresswoman Darlene Antonino Custodio,
her family and party members were on hand to watch the fight at
the city gymnasium with 5,000 people, even though Pacquiao is
running against her in the May 14 elections.


Asked what effect his victory in the ring would have on the
coming polls, Custodio said, "It's up to the people but as far as
the (political leaders) in the city, they will still give him a
hero's welcome."


Custodio could be seen cheering with the rest of the crowd when
Pacquiao, affectionately known here as the Pacman, weathered a
head butt in the sixth round to win a knockout in the eighth
round.


Her political party had previously filed a court petition for the
fight not to be aired in General Santos, saying this would
constitute unfair political advertising, but they withdrew their
petition in the face of widespread public anger.


Television footage of the fight showed Filipinos at the Texas
stadium, cheering a triumphant Pacquiao with the chant
"congressman."


In Manila, about 3,000 spectators in a public stadium cheered and
punched their fists in the air as they watched the fight on a
giant screen.


"I was so overjoyed, I couldn't even imagine this," said taxi
driver Joel Cawan, 28, who is also from General Santos.


"I follow all of his fights. I am just so happy to see his
fights. I stop driving every time he fights," even if it means
losing fares, he said.


However when asked if he would vote for Pacquiao in the coming
elections, Cawan smirked and said, "I will not vote for him.


"Pacquiao is good in helping others, in helping the less
fortunate, (but) politics is a dirty game. He may lose his
credibility if he becomes a politician," he said.


In a post-fight interview aired over local television, Pacquiao
refused to capitalise on his latest victory, saying "I am uniting
our Filipinos in this hour. I do not want to talk about politics.
But I showed that I can manage these two different things."

