

Malaysia's main opposition parties on Sunday said they are ready
to throw their support behind a candidate from sacked former
deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim's party in an upcoming by-
election.


The People's Justice Party, or Parti Keadilan Rakyat, which Anwar
advises has said it would field a candidate in a by-election for
the state seat of Ijok, in western Selangor state, called after
the representative from the ruling National Front coalition died
last week.


"We are very much keen to support Keadilan because they contested
that same seat in 2004," the deputy president of the hardline
Pan-Malaysia Islamic Party (PAS), Nasharudin Mat Isa, told AFP.


"We also want to ensure that the opposition has a straight fight
against Barisan Nasional (the ruling coalition)," Nasharudin
said.


"I think it is a good plan and with Anwar on the campaign trail,
that will give even more impact to the opposition's candidate,"
he said.


Anwar was to succeed former leader Mahathir Mohamad until 1998,
when he was sacked after facing sodomy and corruption charges
that landed him in jail for six years.


His sodomy conviction was overturned but the corruption verdict
still stands, barring him from standing for public office until
April 2008.


However, Anwar has said he planned to run for president of the
People's Justice Party -- a position currently held by his wife,
Wan Azizah Wan Ismail -- when the party holds its annual national
congress at the end of May.


The campaigning in Ijok would be another marker in Anwar's
comeback to Malaysia's political scene, party officials have
said.


The opposition Chinese-dominated Democratic Action Party (DAP) on
Sunday said that while there had been no formal discussion, the
party leaders would meet with Keadilan to help plan its strategy.


The last state election was in 2004, when the People's Justice
Party lost Ijok by a narrow margin of 1,649 votes to the ruling
coalition.


Both the sides have said they would contest the seat. Malaysia's
election commission has set April 28 as the date for the by-
election.

