

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz, gravely damaged by a pay
scandal, was clinging to his job heading into an annual meeting
of the 185-member development lender Sunday.


Support for the former US deputy defense secretary appeared
confined to his old patrons in the US administration and to parts
of Africa, with disquiet in Europe deepening over the latest
controversy of his stormy two-year tenure.


Wolfowitz was due to appear before the press Sunday for the first
time since the bank's directors released documents revealing that
he personally ordered a pay package worth nearly 200,000 dollars
for his bank employee girlfriend.


"The controversy is distracting the World Bank from its mission,"
German development minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul told
reporters.


Wolfowitz must now "decide for himself whether he can continue to
fulfill his duties credibly given that mistake," she said.


British International Development Secretary Hilary Benn said
"this whole business has damaged the bank and should not have
happened," but added, "we should respect the board process."


The annual spring meeting of the World Bank's development
committee "ought to be about the bank's contribution to fighting
poverty," he said.


French Finance Minister Thierry Breton pointedly stopped short of
endorsing Wolfowitz and stressed that the World Bank should be
"ethically irreproachable."


US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson expressed "very high regard"
for Wolfowitz.


But like other officials, he said he would await a board review
of Wolfowitz's involvement in awarding Shaha Riza the
extraordinary package when she was reassigned against her will to
the US State Department in 2005.


Riza stayed on the World Bank payroll during her external
assignment from its Middle East arm to the State Department,
which was designed to prevent conflicts of interest after
Wolfowitz took charge of the bank in June 2005.


Wolfowitz first claimed that he had nothing to do with the
generous terms of the assignment, then admitted his involvement
but said he acted in part to prevent the bank from being sued by
his girlfriend.


However, following the board's release of the incriminating
documents early Friday, his defense was further eroded Saturday
by comments from the World Bank's then-top legal officer.


"I advised the board committee that I did not see any grounds for
a successful lawsuit," its former general counsel Roberto Danino
told the Financial Times.


The controversy has erupted at the worst time for Wolfowitz when
he is battling to overcome resistance to his flagship campaign
against corruption in the World Bank's 24-billion-dollar annual
lending.


Wolfowitz, an architect of the war in Iraq, is also under fire
for surrounding himself with a coterie of advisors drawn from the
Republican US administration.


The World Bank staff association says Wolfowitz has "destroyed"
the trust of the lender's 10,000 employees and should "act
honorably and resign."


While the World Bank board has the power to fire a president, in
practice the lender's chief is a US political appointee and his
fate would be decided by governments, notably in Washington and
in Europe.


"The web of entanglement seems to be getting thicker by the day,"
one former senior staffer said on condition of anonymity.


"But the question is, can the Europeans get their act together to
stand up against the Americans?"


Wolfowitz does have his supporters, having devoted much effort to
cajoling rich countries to give more development funding to
Africa.


Liberian Finance Minister Antoinette Sayeh paid tribute to the
"visionary leadership" of Wolfowitz, "and we can only say that we
look forward to that continuing."

