

A huge discrepancy between the number of registered voters in a
district and the actual number of votes reported was the result
of a technical error, an East Timorese electoral commission
spokesman said Sunday.


Confusion surrounding the first round of voting in East Timor's
presidential election mounted on Saturday when the election
commission said the Baucau district, with 100,000 eligible
voters, had produced three times as many votes.


The figure of 300,000 "was not at all there," Martinho Gusmao,
spokesman for the national election commission, told a press
conference here.


"This discrepancy was a technical mistake by the STAE (East
Timorese Technical Secretariat for Election Administration) and
the polling staff," Gusmao said, adding that the real figure was
around 100,000 votes.


He said the mistake was "in the matter of writing up the figure,"
and was only discovered Saturday evening.


Election commission chief Faustino Cardoso said the error was a
technical mistake by polling staff.


"The distortion at several polling centres was because of their
lack of capacity and knowledge of the electoral process," Cardoso
told journalists separately.


Gusmao declined to say whether the mistake had affected the
results so far. He said the final results would be taken to the
court of appeal, where it would be decided whether a second round
would be necessary.


East Timor, which is holding its first presidential poll since
independence in 2002, has just 520,000 eligible voters.


Jose Ramos-Horta, East Timor's current prime minister, and
Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres, the ruling Fretilin party's
candidate, have emerged from a field of eight candidates to
contest the run-off.


The commission said Friday that serious flaws in the election
could force some areas to repeat first-round voting.


Most of the candidates who stood formally demanded a recount,
even though international observers said the poll in the former
Portuguese colony was generally orderly and peaceful.


The commission had rejected a recount on Thursday, saying there
was no legal basis on which to grant the request.


A number of the candidates also raised the possibility that
voters were intimidated, stoking fears of instability in the
troubled state ahead of the second round.

