

Playing in the World Cup semi-finals will put huge pressure on
New Zealand, according to captain Stephen Fleming.


Fleming said the players would have a few days off after
qualifying for the last four with their five-wicket win over
South Africa at the Grenada National Stadium Saturday before
preparing for their final Super Eights match against Australia at
the same ground Friday.


"The pressure that's going to be on the next two or three games
is more than any of our players have experienced and that's what
we've got to come to grips with," said the Black Caps captain.


Fleming said that playing against Australia before the semi-
finals was probably a good thing for his team, especially as it
came after a five-day break.


"It's always easy to get up for Australia games because they are
so important to us," he said.


"So it's good that were playing them last. It's important that
you chill out for a few days and just reflect on what you've done
and then rebuild again. If you stay too intense for too long
you're going to burn out."


New Zealand have reached the World Cup semi-finals four times
previously without getting into a final.


"It's one step at a time," said Fleming. "To get to the semis was
one step and then you're two games away from winning the World
Cup.


"It's a pretty exciting proposition but also one that's uncharted
in a way. I think this team is pretty well equipped to deal with
the pressure. It's going to be a great occasion for us. I guess
it's an opportunity."


Fleming said New Zealand would pick their best available team to
play against Australia which means no rest for key fast bowler,
the injury-plagued Shane Bond.


"We did a lot of that before the World Cup," said the skipper.


"The only thing that would sway me is if someone is carrying an
injury."


Fleming said New Zealand were not concerned at this stage who
they played in the semi-finals or whether they had to travel to
Jamaica or St Lucia for the game.


"I guess we'll see over the week who we're likely to play and
what we can control," he said.

