

Zhang Huaixiang's thin wasted frame dangles from his wooden
crutches, his bowed legs swelled by a disease contracted from a
lifelong reliance on coal.


Zhang, 57, a farmer in Guizhou province in the nation's
mountainous southwest, has been near bed-ridden for a year,
unable to walk properly due to the rotting of his bones and
joints from fluoride poisoning.


"My knees just hurt too much," Zhang told AFP outside his grey-
walled concrete room subsidised by the government.


He also receives 50 yuan (6.45 US dollars) a month for food, but
his brother-in- law, Li Xiaoxin, also a farmer, said it was not
nearly enough.


"I work and live one day and then take care of him the next,"
said Li, 65.


Zhang is one of 42 million people in China with fluorosis, a
condition caused by ingesting too much fluoride, which corrodes
the teeth, pitting them and turning them a rusty brown, in cases
of excessive, prolonged exposure.


In severe cases like Zhang's, the mineral also weakens the bones
and stiffens the joint ligaments, eventually making movement
difficult and painful, much like osteoarthritis does.


In many developed countries, fluoride, which is often naturally
occurring in water and also coal, is added to toothpaste and
drinking water.


Since the 1960s many medical experts have believed that small
amounts of fluoride helps prevent tooth decay and strengthen
bones.


However, the claimed benefits have increasingly drawn fire from
medical experts who say that there are no tangible health
advantages to the human body.


Several European countries over the last five years have stopped
public water fluoridation programmes amid questions whether the
mineral does more harm than good.


At its most severe, fluorosis results in the type of paralysis
Zhang now has, and can even lead to cancer and brain damage. The
sickness is incurable.


In China, where coal is still a primary cooking and heating fuel
in rural areas, the disease is especially prevalent because the
fluoride-carrying fumes from coal burnt inside homes pollute the
air and the food.


According to Zhijin health bureau officials, the condition is
particularly widespread in Guizhou because two regional food
staples, corn and red peppers, are dried inside. The rising coal
smoke then laces the food with fluoride.


Wang Jianjun, a vice director of the local health bureau, said
extended educational campaigns have helped raise awareness of the
disease, which can easily be avoided through the use of other
cooking fuels.


But the cheapness and availability of coal in rural China has
meant that old practices die hard, Wang said.


"We educate the villagers through television, radio and posters,
let them know the cause and harm of the disease," he said. "It's
very hard to change people's habits."


Wang added that it was not until 1978 that people knew what
caused the disease, so China's older generation stood no chance
of avoiding contamination.


Ma Wenbo, director of the health bureau, said that one partially
successful solution was getting residents to install chimneys in
their homes. Another measure was the use of gas made from manure.


However, the disease is still endemic and in Guizhou, a stunning
92 percent of the province's 37 million people are estimated to
have some form of fluorosis.


While only about 4,000 people have severe skeletal fluorosis,
said Ma, a look around in Zhijin reveals that residents as young
as six have decaying teeth that are severely discoloured and
other signs of the disease.


Nationwide more than 2.8 million have some form of skeletal
fluorosis, according to data published in 2005 by China's
national health ministry.


The condition is so common in rural China, where 800 million of
the nation's 1.3 billion people live, that the health ministry
estimates that 100 million are at risk.

