

World finance officials groped for policy consensus at weekend
meetings here but had to compete for attention with a pay scandal
at the World Bank that threatened to topple its president, Paul
Wolfowitz.


Wolfowitz, facing mounting pressure to resign, was to appear at a
news conference later Sunday closing out the three-day parley of
top finance chiefs from the Group of Seven industrialized powers,
the IMF and the World Bank.


While the weekend featured much talk of currency volatility,
trade liberalization, institutional reform and hedge-fund
regulation, it was the fate of the 63-year-old Wolfowitz -- and
by extension the World Bank -- that concentrated minds.


The World Bank chief is facing a firestorm of criticism for his
role in engineering a substantial pay hike for his girlfriend,
who also worked at the bank before being transferred to the US
State Department in 2005.


He has acknowledged -- and apologized for -- mistakes in the
procedure under which the pay package was approved and has said
he will abide by a decision on his fate taken by the bank's
24-member executive board.


Following the Group of Seven meeting Friday, French Finance
Minister Thierry Breton refused to say whether Wolfowitz should
go but stressed that the World Bank should be "ethically
irreproachable."


By contrast, US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said he had
"very high regard" for Wolfowitz, who has also won a vote of
confidence from President George W. Bush.


Paulson declined to comment in detail pending a review by the
bank board but stressed that "this should not call into question
or be read as any lessening of US support for Paul Wolfowitz."


In their final policy statement, ministers from Britain, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States served up
warmed-over commentary on currency volatility but issued a strong
call for a global accord to boost free trade.


They also threw their weight behind an IMF reform drive and
pledged to monitor developments in speculative hedge-fund
markets.


The G7, as it had done in its last statement in early February,
avoided specific mention of the sliding Japanese yen, a trend
that has unsettled eurozone officials who fear it will erode
their export earnings and dampen growth.


The ministers instead reiterated calls on China to allow the yuan
to appreciate more rapidly.


Analysts said afterwards that so bland a statement was unlikely
to have any noticeable effect on currency markets when trading
resumed Monday.


The United States does not share European disquiet over the
sliding yen, which has fallen 13.5 percent against the euro since
May 2006 compared with 9.0 percent against the dollar, and
insists that an undervalued Chinese yuan is the principal threat
to currency stability.


Washington has long pressed Beijing to accord greater flexibility
to the yuan, arguing that its weakness gives China an unfair
advantage on export markets while making Chinese products more
attractive in the United States.


Paulson, addressing a meeting Saturday of the IMF's policymaking
body, said it was now the responsibility of the Fund to take a
more muscular approach to currency volatility.


"Let us be clear: exercising firm surveillance over members'
exchange rate policies is the core function of the institution,"
he said.


"For us, reform of the IMF's foreign exchange surveillance is the
linchpin on which other reforms depend, and we look forward to
action in this important area very soon."


The US insistence on vigorous IMF action appeared to reflect Bush
administration frustration with what it sees as China's
reluctance to allow greater flexibility for the yuan.


IMF planners, meanwhile, tried to galvanize reform efforts at
their 62-year-old institution, notably through a campaign to
accord emerging-market and poor countries a greater voice in the
Fund's operations.


But the effort, launched in Singapore last September, has drawn
resistance from some richer members who could see their influence
diminished.


"Differences in members' views still remain," Japanese Finance
Minister Koji Omi said.


He added that recent discussions had concentrated too heavily on
changes in the quota shares of advanced, emerging-market and
developing countries, "thereby creating unnecessary tension among
different groups."


But British finance minister and chariman of the IMF policy
committee remained positive.


"Whatever reservations that people may have as individuals,
countries came together as a group today ... Whatever strong
ideas people may have had in the past, people are willing to work
together for a solution that will be for the future."

