

Australian speedster Shaun Tait has praised skipper Ricky Ponting
and veteran paceman Glenn McGrath for helping him settle into the
world champions' team.


Tait, the tearaway who has been a World Cup revelation with 14
wickets so far at an average of 20.42, has seized the opportunity
to carve out a regular place in the side following the pre-
tournament injury to Brett Lee.


Many thought his inaccuracy could cost Australia dear in the
World Cup but Ponting has given the 24-year-old South Australian
licence to rough up opposing teams' top orders here.


It's a tactic which has paid off with Australia, bidding for a
third successive World Cup title, cruising into the semi-finals
with seven wins in seven matches in the Caribbean.


"I'm feeling quite settled in the team now since being given my
place when Brett got injured. That feeling is also helping my
bowling and my rhythm," Tait told www.bigstarcricket.com.


"When it's in your mind that you know you're going to play the
games it gives you a lot more confidence. It helps you settle
down and you feel part of the team a lot more.


"When you're a young player it can be quite hard sometimes in
your own mind. The players welcome you but in your own mind
you're worrying about settling in and becoming a regular fixture
in the team.


"But this tournament has been perfect; I'm having a great time. A
lot of that has come from the captain because he has helped me
relax and told me not to worry about wides or anything like that
and to just enjoy it."


Tait was equal in his praise of McGrath, the tournament's top
wicket-taker with 18 victims and who will quit international
cricket at the end of the World Cup.


"It has been great to spend more time with a legend like Glenn
McGrath before he retires. He has helped me even though he may
not realise sometimes. I listen to him a lot and learn things
when, to him, he is probably just talking normally.


"Glenn just thinks of himself as a player in the side and doesn't
want to go around telling people how to bowl. But I listen to him
a lot and a word here and there helps me out, with my bowling and
confidence."

