

Bulgaria's newly rich businessmen in search of respectability in
a country suspicious of wealth and where it comes from have
turned to religion, following a post-communist revival of the
Christian Orthodox Church.


At Saint Mina monastery outside the capital Sofia, enormous new
icons donated by people in business and cultural circles dwarf
the much smaller original icon of Saint Mina himself, to whom
believers write their wishes on scraps of paper.


Outside, a richly engraved wooden gate, a water fountain and
several luxurious- looking buildings with plaques prominently
displaying the names of their donors outshine the small old
church.


"The public generally has a poor view of big business,
associating it with either the mafia or the shadow economy,"
political analyst Evgeny Daynov told AFP. "So businessmen seek
legitimacy by showing devotion to the church, without actually
being believers."


Even the chairman of the major big-business union, Bozhidar
Danev, last month said the underground economy was so widespread
it accounted for 32 to 34 percent of all turnover and billions in
unreported income in Bulgaria, which joined the European Union in
January.


The 1989 transition from communism was marked by spectacular turf
wars for part of the new free-market pie, during which hundreds
of underground bosses-turned- businessmen were assassinated.


In recent years, donations from this emergent business class have
helped renovate orthodox monasteries around the country as well
as build new churches.


"Everyone, even if he is rich, remembers he is mortal," said
Zlatka, a worker at a newly restored and renovated church in
Lozen, south of Sofia, who did not want her full name used. "The
reasons behind their donations will be taken into account up
there ."


Even church donations did not save two of Bulgaria's richest and
most emblematic businessmen.


Ilia Pavlov, president of the Multigroup holding with business
interests in tourism and energy, had a chapel built in his
village and gave the name of his patron, Saint Elias, to a beach
resort he owned on the Black Sea.


He was gunned down, however, outside his Sofia office in 2003.


Similarly, top banker Emil Kyulev, who generously contributed to
building a church commissioned by Bulgaria's most famous
clairvoyant, was shot dead in his car on a boulevard in the
capital in 2005.


Religious rituals have also become an essential part of
inauguration ceremonies for every new building, business or
undertaking in this former Soviet bloc state.


The recent launch of the centre-right GERB party of Sofia mayor
and former crime buster Boiko Borissov was no exception.


"The uncertainty business people feel when they launch something
new prompts them to seek moral support. It's debatable whether
this is motivated by religious faith or superstition," said
Tihomir Bezlov, an analyst at the Centre for the Study of
Democracy, a Sofia-based independent think-tank.


Patriarch Maxim, head of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church to which
almost 80 percent of the population belongs, blessed both former
prime minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg and President Georgy Parvanov,
a former Socialist leader whose party grew out of Bulgaria's old
communist party, when each  man  took the oath of office.


"People latched onto religious rites to lend an air of legitimacy
to important events, since the old communist ceremonies have been
dropped, and also to show they are no longer communist," Gallup
analyst Andrey Raychev said.    Going to church was frowned upon
under communism, which espouses atheism, but since the old
regime's demise churches are overflowing on holy days. Most
couples today choose to be married in religious church ceremonies
and christenings are again common.


"It's not that Bulgarians have become believers. No more than 15
percent could be considered religious. But at Christmas, at
Easter, they go to church to respect tradition and enjoy the
festivities," Raychev said.


Superstition, which was fervently condemned under the Communist
regime, is also on the upswing.


A 2004 Gallup poll showed that Bulgarians in their 30s and 40s
were clearly more superstitious than their elders, and attributed
the trend to their confusion during the profound social changes
that accompanied the collapse of communism.


Half of those polled said they feared the "evil eye" and believed
in black magic. One in five Bulgarians said he believed black
cats brought bad luck, that it was possible to speak to the dead
and that ghosts existed.

