

British newspapers on Sunday picked over the bones of the split
between Prince William and his girlfriend of four years Kate
Middleton, but with conflicting accounts of why they went their
separate ways.


The News of the World tabloid, weekly sister paper to The Sun,
which broke the story in its last edition Saturday, said the end
of the romance was decided at a "secret royal summit" involving
senior members of Britain's first family.


The newspaper, which devoted nine pages to the story, said army
officer William, 24, told his family Middleton, 25, wanted more
from their relationship but he did not want to commit.


That prompted his grandmother Queen Elizabeth II to intervene and
his grandfather Prince Philip to tell him: "You can't string her
along for ever."


"Don't rush down the aisle -- we don't want another Diana," the
80-year-old monarch was said to have told him, referring to the
first marriage of William's father Prince Charles to Lady Diana
Spencer, which ended in divorce in 1996.


A senior royal courtier was quoted as saying: "It's clear the
Queen doesn't want William to go through a carbon copy rerun of
his father, marrying the wrong woman."


But according to the Sunday Telegraph, it was Prince Charles who
told his eldest son to reach a "make or break" decision over
Middleton.


"This is history repeating itself as Prince Philip told Charles
during his courtship of Diana that he had to make his intentions
known fairly swiftly, which ultimately led to disastrous
consequences as he was not ready to marry."


In its seven pages of coverage, The Mail on Sunday said William
decided to end it because he felt the "fun" had gone from their
relationship.


There were also underlying tensions among William's set about her
middle-class upbringing, it added. Middleton is the daughter of
millionaires who made their fortune in the children's party
paraphernalia business.


The Daily Mirror's veteran former royal correspondent wrote in
the Sunday Mirror that Middleton was "not posh enough" for the
royal family.


Like a number of newspapers, the Mail on Sunday said things came
to a head three weeks ago after pictures appeared of a drunken
William partying with army colleagues and two women in the
southern English coast resort of Bournemouth.


It also said Middleton felt threatened by William's relationship
with millionaire heiress and socialite Isabella Anstruther-Gough-
Calthorpe, and that she was the reason for their temporary split
in mid-2004.


Many newspapers said William could come to regret his decision,
as Middleton was seen as a grounded, level-headed woman who could
help turn round the stuffy image of the royal family.


But The Sunday Times, which speculated on possible replacements
for Middleton from the "glosse posse" of "blue-bloods, models and
billionaires' daughters", quoted one close friend as saying
simply: "The timing was wrong.


"Wills met her five years too early."


Neither party was to blame, nor was the increasingly intrusive
nature of the newspaper attention Middleton was receiving or his
army commitments, the friend added.


"William needs to live his life a bit," the friend said, not
ruling out that they would get together again in the future.


The Observer analysed the fall-out assessing that it would now be
difficult for Middleton -- a clothes buyer for a fashion firm --
to be anything other than the "girl who was almost Queen".


The News of the World and the Sunday Mirror said William drowned
his sorrows with friends at a trendy London club on Friday night.


The latter said the group racked up an 11,000-pound (16,000-euro,
22,000-dollar) bar bill and the prince said: "I'm not 36, I'm not
married... I want to have fun."

