

North Korea won a few more days to start shutting down its
nuclear programme Sunday after missing a first key deadline, even
as the United States and Japan piled pressure on the regime to
comply.


As the communist state celebrated the 95th birth anniversary of
its founder Kim Il-Sung, diplomats involved in efforts to
dismantle its weapons programme indicated they would give it more
time to shut down its nuclear reactor.


China, its closest ally and the host of international talks on
the crisis, called for patience, and a senior US State Department
official downplayed the significance of Saturday's deadline.


The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that
Washington was willing to accommodate delays over the next few
days, and would "work with our partners in the talks to see if we
can get the movement we need in the coming days."


Under a breakthrough February 13 deal, the North was supposed to
shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor within 60 days -- running
out Saturday -- and to invite UN atomic inspectors back in.


But the impoverished nation has refused to budge until it has
confirmed US assertions that 25 million dollars of cash has been
released from a Macau bank where it had been frozen by sanctions
since 2005.


"Our patience is not in infinite supply but given the kind of
complexities that did arise with some of the banking issues, it
is probably prudent to give this a few more days to see if the
statement of February 13 is something they are going to follow
through on," the State Department official said.


"We're going to see if we can get this back on track. We'd like
it to be on in the coming days," she added.


"We are not interested in negotiating a new deadline. What we are
going to focus on now is getting it done as quickly as we
possibly can."


The State Department urged North Korea to turn Yongbyon off
immediately, a call echoed by Japan.


"Although the deadline has passed it is still extremely important
for North Korea to take initial action as soon as possible,"
warned Noriyuki Shikata, a Japanese foreign ministry spokesman.


"It is also important for North Korea to come back to the six-
nation talks as soon as possible."


But the chief US nuclear negotiator, Christopher Hill, said
China, too, had urged patience during his talks in Beijing.


"The Chinese wanted us to show patience for a couple of more
days," he told reporteres after meetings with his Chinese
counterpart Wu Dawei.


"They said the lines of communication were open. ... if it is
going to get resolved it certainly should be able to get resolved
very soon."


The banking row is merely the latest hurdle to the six-nation
negotiations that China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan
and Russia first launched on Pyongyang's nuclear programme in
2003.


Efforts took on added urgency last year, when the North test-
fired several missiles in July followed in October by its first
ever atom bomb test.


The deal they reached two months ago promises North Korea, which
is one of the world's poorest and most isolated nations, up to
one million tons of fuel aid or equivalent in return for
dismantling its nuclear weapons programme.


There was no official word Sunday in North Korea on the deadline
or how it would proceed, with the nation instead concentrating on
its festivities.


A North Korean foreign ministry official, speaking Friday to AFP,
said that Pyongyang stood behind the deal but would not act until
it saw the money from the Macau bank.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic," said Kim Son-gyong,
deputy director of the ministry's European department. "We will
be faithful to this agreement if the Americans respect its
clauses."

