

The aspirations of ANC deputy president Jacob Zuma to become
South Africa's next president, were struck a blow as his main
backers threatened to drop him as their candidate, a newspaper
reported Sunday.


Zuma has been a frontrunner in the race to succeed President
Thabo Mbeki, with his most vocal support found among the leftist
partners to the ANC in the governing tripartite alliance.


Leaders of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU)
however, are reportedly reconsidering the wisdom of their support
for Zuma as his battle against corruption charges does not seem
to be coming to an end.


"Imagine a situation where we will have an African National
Congress (ANC) president who will spend most of his time
attending court hearings," a COSATU official was quoted as saying
by the Sunday Times newspaper.


Zuma, 64, was fired as South Africa's deputy president after his
financial adviser was sentenced to 15 years in jail for
corruption, and he was subsequently charged.


Despite a judge throwing out the charges in September last
year,linked to a 1999 arms deal, the country's National
Prosecuting Authority is pressing ahead with efforts to convict
him.


This week they were granted access to documents that could
provide damning evidence against Zuma.


During his corruption trial COSATU was at his side voicing their
support, with general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi calling a Zuma
presidency an "unstoppable tsunami".


However the trade union federation has done an about turn, with
Vavi being told during a central executive committee meeting that
workers had only supported Zuma in the face of a perceived abuse
of power by the state.


Vavi told the Sunday Times the names of candidates had not yet
been discussed.


"The discussion in COSATU is still limited to the framework and
to what we want corrected, what the problems are as we see them
and what ideological content we need from the leadership
collective."


Zuma, who has not openly declared his candidacy in line with ANC
tradition, has mass support among the working class, who see him
as a voice for the poor and marginalised.


The next ANC president, who traditionally goes on to the
country's top job, will be chosen during the party's national
conference in December.

