

Britain's offer to jail former Liberian president Charles Taylor
if he is convicted of war crimes is in doubt because of the
potential costs of his detention, the Sunday Telegraph newspaper
said.


The weekly published details of a leaked government memo that
highlighted the cost of keeping such a high-profile inmate in
jail as "in the region of 44,000 pounds" (64,500 euros, 87,200
dollars) a year.


Britain's lower House of Commons is to debate whether to pass
emergency legislation allowing his detention here when it returns
from its Easter break this week.


According to the newspaper, the memo states: "A possible
objection to the Bill relates to the potential cost of
imprisoning Taylor in the UK.


"Some may argue that, with the UK prison system heavily loaded
and given the other demands on the UK taxpayer, it is not
appropriate to commit government funds to imprison foreign
nationals."


The memo also reportedly highlights the fact that Taylor may
choose to stay in Britain after his release or claim asylum and
that this "might represent a danger to the public or a drain on
public resources".


It advises the government to argue that such commitments are not
entered into lightly but by its action "the UK will be making a
major contribution to the cause of international justice".


Taylor is considered to be the single most powerful figure behind
a series of civil wars in Liberia and neighbouring Sierra Leone
between 1989 and 2003, which between them left about 400,000
people dead.


He has been indicted by the United Nations-backed Special Court
for Sierra Leone on charges of crimes against humanity, war
crimes and violations of international human rights.


He is accused of sponsoring and aiding rebel groups who
perpetrated murder, sexual slavery, mutilation and conscription
of child soldiers in Sierra Leone's civil war in exchange for a
share in the lucrative diamond trade.


Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said last June that
London had agreed to a request by the former UN secretary general
Kofi Annan that if Taylor were convicted, he would serve his
sentence in Britain.

