

South Africa can still reach the World Cup semi-finals, but only
if they improve their fielding, said vice-captain Jacques Kallis.


South Africa meet England in their last Super Eights match in
Barbados on Tuesday knowing that a win will enable them to snatch
the last semi-final place, while a defeat will probably allow
England to get in ahead of them.


"It all boils down to England now," said Kallis after his side
lost by five wickets to New Zealand at the Grenada National
Stadium Saturday.


"It's basically a quarter-final for us and our fate is still in
our hands, which is a positive thing."


South Africa put down three catches during a 78-run third wicket
partnership between New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming and Scott
Styris Saturday, as well as a fourth chance offered by Craig
McMillan when the game was virtually sealed.


"It was unfortunate," Kallis admitted. "When you're defending a
total of 193 you need to take every chance. It was unfortunate
that it was today. The fielding has been unbelievable up to now.


"We've got to make sure we're on top of our game against England
and we have to take those half-chances. It's certainly something
the guys will work on in the next few days."


Kallis refused to be drawn on the likely impact of former South
African Kevin Pietersen, who has become the world's top-ranked
one-day batsman while playing for England.


"They've got a few big match players," he said.


"There are a few guys that we'll have to watch out for. We'll
have a few plans. We've had a good look at their side over the
years and we know what their strengths and weaknesses are."


New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming said he expected the South
Africa-England game to be tight but thought South Africa might be
under more pressure.


"They are two similar sides," said Fleming whose team have made
sure of their semi-final place along with defending champions
Australia and Sri Lanka.


"I guess it's going to be dealing with pressure. It's a quarter-
final scenario. There will be a lot of pressure on both sides.


"There will be expectations on South Africa to win it because of
their ranking and the side they have. England are in a coming-
from-behind situation with the least to lose in that sense. It
will be a good contest."


Kallis, meanwhile, said South Africa still believed they could
win the tournament.


"Three big performances by the team and we end up with the World
Cup in our hands. I believe we are capable of doing it and I
think everyone in the team believes we are capable of doing it,"
he said.

