

Sheffield United are bracing themselves for a crucial trip to
face Manchester United without record signing Claude Davis.


Davis limped off during the second half of the Blades' crucial
3-0 triumph over relegation rivals West Ham at Bramall Lane on
Saturday following a challenge on Nigel Reo-Coker.


The influential centre back, who joined the Blades at the start
of the season from Preston in a 3.5 million pounds deal, is now
facing a race against time to recover ahead of Tuesday's clash
with Sir Alex Ferguson's treble-chasing side.


The Blades have climbed out of the bottom three but the prospect
of returning from Old Trafford empty handed is heightened by
Davis's likely absence.


Warnock can ill-afford to be without the Jamaica international
against a United side running riot at home and abroad this
season.


He will have intensive treatment on the troublesome ankle problem
and may even be forced to undergo scans to discover the extent of
the damage.


His loss would be a massive blow to Warnock, who admits his side
will travel across the Pennines with some trepidation but no lack
of fight.


Warnock said: "We won't lack fight and have players with more of
it than Manchester United.


"The only problem is that they have got ten times more skill than
us and we'll probably be chasing shadows for most of the time.


"But we'll battle hard and give it our best shot as we always do.
We look like a Premiership side and must compete like one."


Goals from midfielders Michael Tonge and Phil Jagielka plus a
third from striker Jon Stead were more than enough to secure the
Blades' most crucial victory of the season to leave the Hammers
teetering on the brink of relegation.


Tonge broke the deadlock with a powerful free kick on 39 minutes
to notch his second goal of the season and Warnock's side to
their first win in five matches.


Jagielka doubled the home side's advantage just after the hour
mark with a powerful header before Stead completed the rout 12
minutes from time to bring the Hammers' three match unbeaten run
crashing to a halt.


West Ham still find themselves second from bottom of the
Premiership and cast adrift of safety, yet must prepare for the
visit of current champions Chelsea on Wednesday night.


Few pundits will give the Hammers a prayer of pulling off a shock
victory but manager Alan Curbishley is refusing to accept his
side cannot escape relegation, even if this means beating Jose
Mourinho's all-star cast.


Curbishley is expected to recall Yossi Benayoun after
controversially leaving him out of the defeat at Bramall Lane.


He said: "This is something I might have to look at. We'll see
how things are shaping up nearer the time.


"We know we have got to win all our remaining games from now
until the end of the season. We've been looking at other results
of the teams around us but nothing seems to have changed.


"Now we've just got to give it our best shot because things can
change dramatically in just a week.


"But this won't happen or have a chance of happening unless we
make sure we win our games.


"We've beaten Manchester United at Upton Park this season so we
know what we are capable of.


"We will go into the Chelsea game and give it a real go. Who
knows? There are three points available and at stake, so we will
just have to go for it.


"We've got to score more goals and be more positive. We haven't
done enough against the other sides around us, but Chelsea don't
fall into this category so we have nothing to lose. Nobody
expects us to win, so we can play without fear and then see what
happens."

