

Sri Lanka's peace process is in tatters with both the government
and Tamil Tigers once again pushing for a military solution,
according to diplomats close to efforts to end the conflict.


International sponsors of the peace process are also resigned to
Asia's longest- running civil war dragging on for years to come,
saying the two sides are only likely to return to talks once they
are exhausted by more bloodshed.


"Neither the government nor the Tigers are interested in paying
anything more than lip service to the peace process and the 2002
ceasefire," said one official involved in the Norwegian-led peace
effort.


"The Norwegians are only acting as facilitators, not to impose
anything. But at the present time, they are not being asked to
facilitate anything," said the diplomat, who asked not to be
named.


The ceasefire, along with the peace negotiations, broke down last
year -- leaving both sides squaring up for another round in the
35-year-old ethnic conflict.


Last November, Tamil Tiger leader Velupillai Prabhakaran declared
his people would pursue their own independent state -- slamming
the door on a prior opening that could have seen the Tamil
minority win a form of autonomy.


Recent months have seen a sharp escalation in the fighting, with
the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) losing ground in the
east in January and the armed forces vowing to clear the entire
area of rebels once and for all before turning their attention to
the Tigers' mini-state in the north.


The LTTE's political wing leader S. P. Thamilselvan vowed the
rebels would hit back soon, describing the loss of territory for
them as a simple change in their tactics.


"We have not withdrawn from the east," Thamilselvan told AFP in
an e-mail interview.


"I believe only our actions in the coming period will answer
(government) propaganda whether the Sri Lankan military has won a
stable victory."


The government has jacked up the defence budget by 45 percent to
1.29 billion dollars this year. The talk in Colombo is of war,
albeit packaged as a "humanitarian defensive operation".


"Within the next two to three years we should be able to
eliminate them," a senior government defence official told
reporters in Colombo last month.


Although Sri Lanka's President Mahinda Rajapakse has stopped
short of fulfilling his election campaign pledge of expelling the
Norwegians, Sri Lankan officials are displaying a thinly-
disguised loathing of Nordic truce monitors, international
organisations and NGOs -- accused of pro-LTTE leanings and
restricted in their scope of operations as a result.


Journalists attempting to cover the conflict are also barred by
the government from entering Tiger territory.


Diplomats say their patience has run out, and the peace process
has been put on ice.


Even the United States -- seen as more sympathetic to Sri Lanka's
fight against the LTTE, a designated terrorist organisation -- is
said to be frustrated that its pleas for a negotiated settlement
have been ignored.


Fighting is now expected to intensify in the east while the
Tigers will be under pressure to show their reach -- something
they displayed earlier this month with their first-ever air
strike.


"What we can expect over the coming months is more tit-for-tat
violence: government forces pushing into LTTE territory and the
Tigers carrying out more high-profile attacks," said the
diplomat.


"The feeling now (among international players) is: let the
government and the Tigers clobber each other some more, and when
they are tired out we can help nudge them back to the table,"
said another international official.


At the Colombo office of the Sri Lanka Monitoring Mission (SLMM),
caretakers of the truce, the mood is gloomy, but realistic.


According to SLMM spokesman Thorfinnur Omarsson, the 2002
ceasefire still exists on paper and is still being monitored.


"Unfortunately it has been violated constantly, in fact every day
in recent months," he said, adding the SLMM at least continued to
provide a "tool to independently document what is going on on the
ground."


"We still hope that this calms down and the parties start talking
again, then our work will be of use."


Defence analyst Namal Perera said the Tigers retained the ability
to carry out spectacular attacks despite added military pressure
in recent months.


"Their ability to stage attacks and take troops by surprise was
also demonstrated with the air attacks last month," Perera said.


Retired army brigadier general Vipul Boteju lamented the fact
that neither side is likely to return to the negotiating table
anytime soon.


"This is not something that can be tackled only through military
means," Boteju said. "There must be a political (devolution)
package and the longer we delay it, the more people will get
killed."

