

Alex Ferguson is on a mission to lift the sixth FA Cup of his
glittering managerial career at Old Trafford after Manchester
United comfortably secured their place in the final to complete a
perfect seven days.


While their performance may not have reached the giddy heights of
the annihilation of Roma in midweek, United inched Ferguson
closer towards a stunning treble after destroying Watford's
dream.


Ferguson's perfect record both at Villa Park and in semi-finals
with United remained intact at a canter after Wayne Rooney's two
goals and strikes from Cristiano Ronaldo and Kieran Richardson
brought them a 4-1 victory.


It was nothing to compare with the stunning thrashing of Italians
Roma in their midweek Champions League encounter but another step
towards Ferguson emulating his achievements of 1999 with triumphs
in Europe, the Premiership and FA Cup.


And Ferguson will end his exile from Wembley in May determined to
ensure that the trophy cabinet at Old Trafford needs new hinges.


"It's been a good tournament for me," he said. "Obviously I've
lost two finals but hopefully there won't be another one. There
is a fantastic atmosphere in the dressing room and we are all
looking forward to going back to Wembley.


"I've said to the foreign players like Ronaldo, Evra and Heinze
that they will understand why everyone talks about Wembley
because it is such a special occasion.


"The feeling you get when you approach the place is fantastic, so
hopefully it's another good one for us."


Ferguson was adamant that United had produced the finest evening
at Old Trafford in their illustrious history in the incredible
defeat of Roma in the Champions League.


And they extended their scintillating week in the seventh minute
with another spectacular goal. Rooney seized upon fatal hesitancy
from the Watford defence to sidestep Adrian Mariappa and hammer
an unstoppable shot into the top corner.


But Watford, whose Premiership existence will be confirmed as
over within the next few weeks, seemed to be less anxious without
the necessity for league points at stake and were not as over-
awed as the neutrals had feared.


A sustained period of steady pressure resulted in a shock
equaliser, with Hameur Bouazza hooking a spectacular volley in
off the crossbar.


However, the equaliser inevitably acted as an irritant to
Ferguson's men and they were ahead again barely two minutes
later. Rooney broke clear down the right and presented Ronaldo
with the simplest of tasks with a finish from two yards out.


Portuguese international winger Ronaldo cannot have envisaged a
more impressive week, coming days after his one-man demolition of
Roma and signing a new 120,000 pounds a week contract.


Watford, to their credit, looked more determined after the break
with van der Sar needing to be alert to keep Bouazza's deep cross
from findiung the corner.


But Rooney's second, in the 66th minute, ended the Hornets'
adventure for another year - with substitute Richardson adding a
clever fourth late on, advancing to chip Lee.


Ferguson said: "This has been a hard cup run and we've done it
the hard way, beating a lot of good Premiership sides.


"There were moments where we've carried a bit of luck, like at
Reading, but we can take credit for our run. Who do I want in the
final? It doesn't matter."


Ferguson's only headache was the early departure of Rio Ferdinand
with a groin injury but he is expected to make the Champions
League semi-final with AC Milan.


Boothroyd is now left to focus on his seemingly futile task to
keep his side in the Premiership, but was buoyed by their
display.


"I told the players that I wanted Manchester United to come off
the pitch knowing they had been in a game," he said, " and I
think we've done that.


"The scoreline will say that they scored four goals, and of
course they're capable of that because they've got fantastic
players, but I don't think it's an accurate reflection.


"I wanted us to cause them problems at set pieces and we did
that. We had a good spell at 2-1 down early in the second half
and we should have taken our chances.


"But we didn't do that and obviously we're all disappointed to be
out of the cup. But I can't have any complaints with our
performance, whatever the result."

