

Australia's Attorney-General Philip Ruddock Sunday urged state
governments to tighten censorship laws after a film which calls
for martyrdom and denigrates Jews was deemed suitable for
children.


The "Death Series" DVDs made by Australian-born Sheik Feiz
Mohammed encourages parents to foster a desire to be holy
warriors in their children.


They also include preachings by the sheik in which he calls for
the murder of infidels and compares Jewish people to pigs.


Ruddock called for the states to urgently approve changes to
censorship laws after the films were given a parental guidance
rating by the Office of Film and Literature Classification, which
means they can be bought and viewed by children.


The attorney-general said that current laws were inadequate and
that material which advocated terrorism should be refused
classification. It should also be illegal to sell or distribute
such material, he said.


"I have instructed my officials to see if they can gain the
agreement of the states within two weeks with a view to settling
this issue," he said.


Ruddock said if the states refused to change their laws he would
be prepared to "go it alone" and make the relevant change to
federal censorship laws.


The states and territories on Friday agreed to toughen laws on
material that praised terrorism and Ruddock said there should be
no delay in changing the censorship rules.


The DVDs' rating has been condemned by Jewish groups and
politicians.


"I'm disgusted that any film calling for martyrdom and murder and
describing anyone from any religion as a pig could be determined
suitable for our children," New South Wales Deputy Premier John
Watkins said.


New South Wales Jewish Board of Deputies chief executive Vic
Alhadeff said it was an outrage that such films could be allowed
into the country.


"One has to seriously question the guidelines which allow such
offensive material to be allowed into our country and be
distributed," he said.


"For even one person to see this is one person too many, because
of the race hate that it preaches and the damage that can flow
from that."

