

West Indies coach Bennett King hopes his team can win the last
two matches of their lacklustre World Cup campaign to recover
some lost pride.


The hosts won all three games in their preliminary group but have
since been beaten by Australia, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and South
Africa in the Super Eights.


West Indies, who have only two carry over points in five matches,
now meet Bangladesh on April 19 and England two days later --
both here in Barbados.


"It has been disappointing. We have got to turn those
disappointing results around and hope to bring some of the pride
back into the team and into West Indies cricket," said King.


King, a former Australian Academy coach who took over the Windies
in 2004, believed wins in the last two games will have an impact
on the future.


"We still have to win the games and it's important for us to
finish the competition on a good note and have the momentum for
the next tournament," said the 42-year-old.


The West Indies tour England next month to play four Tests, two
Twenty20 internationals and three one-day internationals.


"We have been let down by fielding, batting and bowling and only
Daren Powell can boast any individual performance," said King of
the paceman who has 11 wickets in the tournament.


King urged all quarters to support the players.


"I don't think pride is missing," said King.


"We must get behind the players and support them and look for
some structures to be put in place for the future.


"We got some facilities just a month ago. Nothing happens
overnight, certainly the boys have the skill but they have to get
the supportive environment when they play international cricket
to really move forward."


King, whose contract expires next year, said he was keen to carry
on as the West Indies coach.


"I am enthusiastic and have put in as much time and energy as
posible. Sometimes people say things and take us down, sometimes
it is warranted and some time it is not.


"The young players have the skill and the ability but it has got
to be harnessed and groomed. We haven't necessarily got things
that other countries have. Still we can't make excuses.


"Talent is not being developed in the West Indies as in other
countries."

