

Serbian second seed Jelena Jankovic advanced to the final of a
1.34 million- dollar WTA clay court tournament here Friday by
defeating Venus Williams 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/5).


Jankovic will play Sunday for the top prize of 196,900 dollars
against Russian fourth seed Dinara Safina, who advanced when
compatriot Vera Zvonareva retired from their semi-final with a
left wrist injury.


Safina's was leading 6-3, 0-1 against Zvonareva when her
countrywoman called it a day.


Jankovic's clash with five-time Grand Slam champion Williams was
a cliff-hanger.


Jankovic won three points in a row, two on Williams' serve, for a
4-2 lead in the tie-breaker, only to have Williams win the next
three to reclaim the lead.


But Williams sent a backhand volley beyond the baseline and
Jankovic followed with a pair of winners, claiming the match with
a forehand down the line but only after the chair umpire checked
the mark and called the ball good.


Williams, currently ranked 29th in the world, won the final four
games of the opening set, breaking ninth-ranked Jankovic in the
sixth and eighth games and holding serve to claim the first set
on a 124-mph service winner.


The rivals traded six service breaks in the first six games of
the second set before Jankovic held, broke Williams in the eighth
game and held to force a third set.


Jankovic, 22, squandered four break-point chances in the third
game of the last set. The Serbian, who has a tour-high 27 match
triumphs this year, broke in the seventh game but Williams broke
back to level at 4-4 on the way to the decisive tie-breaker.


Williams, who missed most of last year with a left wrist injury,
has been impressive this year with a 14-3 record and a title in
February at Memphis.


Zvonareva had aggravated a left wrist injury in her 6-1, 7-5
quarter-final victory over Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands
on Friday.


She withdrew from her doubles match in a bid to be fit for her
singles semi- final, but couldn't make it all the way through.


It was Safina's second straight victory in an injury-shortened
match. She had won the first set of her quarter-final against
Tatiana Golovin on Friday when the French player retired with a
sore right ankle.


The shortened matches may stand Safina in good stead against
Jankovic on Sunday since Safina withdrew from doubles on Friday
night complaining of a left wrist injury suffered in the third
round.

