

Embattled World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz, under fire for his
role in the promotion of his girlfriend, was to join a policy
meeting Sunday in what could be one of his last official acts as
bank chief.


Facing calls for his resignation, Wolfowitz was also scheduled to
appear at a press conference following the twice-yearly session
of the bank's policy-setting Development Committee, representing
the lender's 185 members.


After a tempestuous two-year tenure at the Washington-based
development body, Wolfowitz is now under siege from bank staffers
and advocacy groups who want him to go.


He stands accused of helping arrange a hefty pay hike for his
partner, former World Bank communications specialist Shaha Riza,
when she was transferred to the US State Department in 2005.


Wolfowitz, a former US defense department deputy and architect of
the Iraq war, has admitted to -- and apologized for -- mistakes
in the procedure under which the pay package was approved.


He has said said he will abide by a decision on his fate that is
to be taken by the bank's 24-member executive board.


British development minister Hilary Benn said Saturday that the
pay scandal had done "damage" to the bank and should never have
occurred.


"While this whole business has damaged the bank and should not
have happened, we should respect the board process," he said in a
statement as he prepared to take part in weekend talks at both
the bank and the International Monetary Fund.


"This weekend ought to be about the bank's contribution to
fighting poverty and I am looking forward to discussing how we
can increase aid, tackle climate change, and get clean water to
the one billion human beings who don't have any," Benn said.


The controversy swirling around Wolfowitz threatens to undermine
his high profile campaign to stamp out corruption in countries
receiving World Bank loans, an initiative that had drawn sharp
criticism even before the allegations of favoritism emerged.


Wolfowitz last month hailed unanimous support from national
representatives on the bank executive board for the campaign,
which has had to be repeatedly watered down in the face of
virulent opposition.


But the criticism has not gone away and was likely to be aired
again by policymakers on Sunday.


"How can the World Bank talk about governance when its president
broke international legality with the Iraq war?" Mexican
officials asked during a consultation process late last year,
according to documents posted on the bank website.


That consultation was commissioned after a September meeting of
the bank and IMF, in Singapore, when major European powers such
as Britain lined up with developing nations to assail Wolfowitz's
strategy as misguided.


In going after graft, the World Bank risked jeopardizing its
development work among some of the planet's most needy people,
they argued.


The Washington Post reported Sunday that Wolfowitz has also
repeatedly clashed with World Bank staff over pay packages and
authority he gave to aides, whom he brought to the bank from the
White House, installed in senior positions and rewarded with
open-ended contracts and quarter-million-dollar salaries, despite
their lack of development experience.


World Bank management also has raised concerns over Wolfowitz's
insistence that the bank accelerate its lending to Iraq and open
an office there, according to the report.


Another area currently of deep concern to policy planners is the
future of the International Development Association (IDA) -- the
World Bank's lending arm for the poorest countries -- as it seeks
to replenish its coffers to help fund debt- relief promises.


Officials from the World Bank and developed and developing
nations met in Paris in early March to launch a new drive to
shore up the resources of the IDA.


Donor nations convene every three years to discuss the
association's policies and the reconstitution of its reserves.
The last such meeting was held in February 2005, when financing
was approved for programs running until June 30, 2008.

