

Five years after opening a new front in the "war on terror" in
Southeast Asia, the United States says it is making inroads in
disrupting militant groups through deft partnerships with
governments in the region.


But despite the gains, experts warn, the terrorism threat in the
region remains grave amid raging violence in southern Thailand
and reported plans by top militant Islamist group Jemaah
Islamiyah (JI) for high-profile bombings against Western targets.


The US military said it has forged a strategy of "indirect
approach" to help Southeast Asian governments fight the militants
-- including training government soldiers, enhancing surveillance
capability to flush out potential "safe havens" and promoting
economic development.


"We believe certainly that a unilateral approach on the part of
the US is  not the right answer. We've learned from experience
that having large footprints is problematic," said Brigadier
General John Toolan, the Defense Department's principal director
for South and Southeast Asia and Pacific security affairs.


"We think that this indirect approach will eventually, over a
long-term effort, address some of the root causes of terrorism
(and) most importantly help reduce the recruiting of terrorists
and insurgents throughout" the region, he said.


In the southern Philippines, Toolan said, local troops being
trained by US special forces recently killed the top two leaders
of the deadly Abu Sayyaf militant group and were hot on the trail
of two JI bomb-makers sheltered by the group.


Washington is also helping to build a maritime surveillance
network in Southeast Asia, home to one of the world's most
strategic sea lanes, as militants increasingly use the seas as
escape routes and to smuggle weapons.


The United States just provided 12 million dollars to Malaysia to
help build surveillance capability in the Sulawesi Sea that can
be used by other Southeast Asian nations to, for example, track
the movement of Abu Sayyaf and JI militants from their Philippine
and Indonesian sanctuaries, respectively.


"Things like maritime security are allowing the Indonesians and
the Malaysians to work and cooperate with the Philippines to
identify potential safe havens for these terrorists and keep the
pressure on," Toolan said.


India's navy is also being asked to help the region address the
security problem in the Sulu-Sulawesi "terrorist triangle," where
the maritime borders of Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia
meet.


The United States opened a second front in its war on terror in
Southeast Asia in 2002 after its invasion of Afghanistan
following the September 2001 US attacks masterminded by Al-Qaeda
kingpin Osama bin Laden.


JI, Southeast Asia's Al-Qaeda wing, remains the region's most
potent extremist group and is believed to have been behind a
number of bombings in Indonesia, including attacks on the resort
island of Bali in 2002 and 2005 in which more than 200 people
were killed.


Although 2006 was the first year since 2002 that JI did not stage
a major terror attack in the region, experts warn they remain a
deadly force.


Recent raids, arrests and the recovery of explosives in
Indonesia's Central Java "make it clear that JI has assiduously
been trying to rebuild its capabilities and is preparing for more
high-profile bombings against Western targets," said Zachary
Abuza, an American terrorism expert who has done extensive
studies in Southeast Asia.


The organization has already been involved in the recent marked
increase of sectarian violence in the troubled outer Indonesian
islands of the Malukus and Sulawesi, he said.


Washington is also concerned about unending violence in
Thailand's Muslim- majority south bordering Malaysia, especially
after more than 2,000 people have been killed since an insurgency
resurfaced there three years ago.


The attacks have escalated in the past six months even after
Thailand's military-installed government launched a raft of peace
measures since the September 2006 coup.


While the United States has frozen military aid to Bangkok due to
the coup, it is also worried that Al-Qaeda-linked groups could
capitalize on and fuel the insurgency, posing a bigger regional
problem, diplomats and experts said.


Toolan said "the problem is that there is that Al-Qaeda larger
organization that will capitalize on the chaos and the confusion
and the criminality that's going on.


"We hope and we believe" the current Thai government "is going to
be able to get elections restarted and we will be able to restart
funding shortly," he said.

