

Two US helicopters crashed after an apparent mid-air collision in
Iraq on Sunday, killing two soldiers, while a double car bombing
killed 18 people in a suburban shopping area of Baghdad.


The helicopters came down in the early hours of the morning in a
rural area southwest of Taji, home to a huge American military
base north of the capital in an area where US aircraft have often
come under fire from insurgents.


"An investigation will be conducted to determine the cause of the
incident; however, initial reports indicate it appears to be from
mid-air collision and not the result of enemy fire," the military
said in a statement.


Twelve US choppers, including two operated by a private security
firm, have come down in Iraq since January 20, most of them as a
result of enemy fire.


Four combat helicopters also came under fire during fighting
between ground forces and insurgents last week, in the most
sustained clashes since Iraqi and US troops launched a massive
security crackdown two months ago.


The latest fatalities brought the US military's losses in Iraq to
3,295 since the 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.


The relentless climb in casualties with little sign that overall
violence is falling has fuelled increasing American calls for US
troops to be withdrawn.


Every day insurgents bomb packed population areas in a bid to
undermine the security push and in the latest attack, a double
car bombing killed 18 people, including women and children in a
southern suburb of the capital.


One booby-trapped car blew up outside a restaurant and the second
ripped through a nearby market in the Al-Shurta al-Arabaa
district, in what appeared to be a coordinated attack on the
first day of the Iraqi working week.


"Of those killed 10 are men, five women and three children," a
medic at Yarmuk Hospital in the Iraqi capital told AFP, adding
that 35 wounded were receiving treatment, several of them also
women and children.


Car and suicide bombings have continued to batter Iraq, both in
the capital and increasingly outside Baghdad as insurgents melt
away from the thrust of tens of thousands of soldiers patrolling
the streets of the capital.


The death toll from a suicide car bomb attack in the central
shrine city of Karbala rose to 42, a local health official said
on Sunday.


"Forty-two people were killed in the blast, including eight
children," said Salim Kadhim, spokesman for Karbala health
department.


Kadhim said Saturday's attack, in which a bomber exploded his car
near a shopping area close to the revered Shiite shrine of Imam
Hussein, also wounded 224 people, including 138 men and 86 women.


The wounded men included five Iranian pilgrims.


Police have imposed a vehicle curfew in the city, which is a
magnet for hundreds of thousands of Shiite pilgrims across the
world.


Shiite-populated areas and the predominantly Shiite government
security forces are frequently targeted by car and suicide
bombings in Iraq, gripped by a Sunni- based insurgency and
sectarian conflict.


On Thursday, a suicide bomber blew himself up in the parliament
cafeteria in a spectacular breach of the multiple layers of
security in Baghdad's Green Zone that houses the government, the
US mission and other foreign embassies.


An alliance of Sunni groups headed by Al-Qaeda in Iraq said in an
Internet statement it had kidnapped 20 Iraqi soldiers and
policemen and threatened to kill them in 48 hours if its demands
were not met.


The self-styled Islamic State of Iraq demanded the release of
"Muslim Sunni sisters who are in the prisons of the interior
(ministry)," in the statement posted on a website used by
Islamist militant groups.


An interior ministry spokesman could not immediately confirm
whether any officers were missing.

