

"Nicolas Sarkozy has a message that is close to the people. His
ideas about positive discrimination are bang-on, and I agree with
home totally about rehabilitating the work ethic and bringing
down the tax burden.


"But no way am I going to vote for him."


The views of Hocine Ghoul, a 31-year-old coach-driver at the
Disneyland theme park, are not untypical of the several thousands
from across France meeting this weekend at an exhibition centre
in the Paris suburbs for the country's biggest annual gathering
of Muslims.


"It's a question of principle. I didn't like it when he said what
he said about the people in the 'banlieues' (suburbs) and I
didn't like it when he said there should be no repentance over
the war in Algeria," said Ghoul, who is of Algerian parents.


"I support his ideas, but I think he's got a dangerous psychology
and an oversized ego."


The convention of the Union of Islamic Organisations of France
(UOIF) at Le Bourget -- not far from the famous airport -- has
become a fixture in the French calendar, a chance for
conservative Muslims to meet, hear speeches from theologians and
buy the latest in Islamic literature and clothes.


This year the gathering takes place a week before voting in the
country's presidential election, and conversations gravitate
naturally towards the relative merits of Sarkozy, socialist
Segolene Royal and the centrist Francois Bayrou.


"There are all sorts of views here -- just like in France as a
whole," said Nazih Marzouqy, 25, an executive from Normandy who
heads the association Young Muslims of France (MJF).


"Among the youth there is a real rejection of Sarkozy because of
what he said," -- a reference to the occasion when he described
delinquents in a Paris suburb as "racaille" or "rabble" -- "They
felt it as a lack of respect. They felt sullied.


"But personally I am hesitating between him and the other two.
His message on work goes down well, and the same for positive
discrimination. The trouble is he scares people," he said.


Sarkozy, 52, is favourite to become the country's next president
after the second round of the election on May 6. He campaigns for
a "clean break" from the past: freeing up the economy, and
affirmative action to help the disadvantaged black and Arab-
origin population.


However he has also been accused of moving dangerously to the
right -- proposing a "ministry of immigration and national
identity" for instance -- in order to tempt voters from far-right
leader Jean-Marie Le Pen. And memories remain strong of the 2005
riots, which many in France blame him for fomenting.


"I cannot vote for Sarko. He is getting too close to Le Pen,"
said Karim Hamdouchi, a 27 year-old shopkeeper from the high-
immigration Seine-Saint-Denis department of northern Paris.


"Having said that though, I agree with a lot of what he says. I
like his views on reducing welfare dependency. When he speaks, he
is very convincing."


Regarded as close to the Muslim Brotherhood -- a link it denies
-- the UOIF supports a literal interpretation of the Koran, and
led an unsuccessful fight against the 2004 law banning Islamic
headscarves from schools. Most women at Le Bourget wore head
coverings, and many men were in Middle Eastern dress.


Interviewed after emerging from mid-day prayers in one of the
exhibition halls, several people said they would vote for Bayrou,
who has campaigned extensively in the "banlieues" -- but there
was little enthusiasm for Royal.


"I cannot vote for the left because they are anti-religion and
especially the UOIF. And I cannot vote for Sarko because I
instinctively side with the young people in the 'banlieues' -- so
I suppose it will have to be Bayrou," said Jawad Elmouktafi, a 27
-year-old electrical worker.


According to Marzouqy of the MJF: "Segolene is very
disappointing. When she makes all those promises -- double this,
double that -- no one believes her. The Socialist Party hasn't
changed at all in the last five years."


Some Muslims opposed Sarkozy because they believe he wants to
control Islam.


"In England people are free to exercise their religion. But
Sarkozy wants an 'Islam of France'. He wants to appoint imams. It
is impossible -- Islam is universal," said Arun, a 28-year-old
accountant.


And Marwane Labriche, a 22-year-old France Telecom worker from
Annecy in southeast France, said he despises all the main
candidates so much that he will vote for Le Pen.


"I am being perfectly serious. I have spent my life trying to
prove that I am equal and being rejected. Now I want France to be
true to itself and vote in Le Pen. Then when things go badly,
they can see how wrong they were."

