

Ivory Coast is set to begin Monday pulling down a buffer zone
that has divided the country into two over the past four years in
a key move to forge ahead with a historic peace deal penned last
month.


Demolition of the so-called confidence zone, created in 2002 by
UN peacekeeping troops trying to keep apart the fighting sides
and help end a civil war, is due to start on Monday at a ceremony
symbolically marking the unification of the former bastion of
stability and once-economic powerhouse of west Africa.


Ivory Coast's arch-foes, President Laurent Gbagbo and rebel
leader Guillaume Soro, took a decisive step to bury the hatchet
and agreed last month to end the crisis at talks brokered by
nearby Burkina Faso.


Thousands of UN troops who have patrolled the zone will be phased
out gradually and replaced by troops from a joint Ivorian army
made up of former rebels and government loyalists.


"The process will be staggered over several weeks ... and will
depend on the ability of the Ivorians" to take over from the
international force, UN forces commander Fernand Amoussou said in
the run up to the exercise.


The UN says it will be on standby to quell any outbreak of
violence in the clearance of the zone, but it and observers fear
the western region bordering Liberia, through which the buffer
zone cuts, could pose the greatest threat to the smooth running
of the exercise.


A Dakar-based expert with the global think-tank International
Crisis Group (ICG), Gilles Yabi, said in Dakar that what is
important is the "flexibility to allow for adjustments in case of
a security threat, but perhaps we can expect more problems from
the west."


The west has been notoriously troublesome over the years due to
the diverse ethnic-based tension rife in the region.


Amoussou said dismantling of the zone will be "heavy and
complex", admitting that the west of the country could be
problematic. The latest UN human rights report said rights
conditions in the west of Ivory Coast "remained very alarming".


The end of the demilitarised zone will ease movement of people
and goods between north and south, and speed up the re-deployment
of the government administrative institutions in the north, long
deserted by the civil servants in 2002 fleeing the fighting.


It should also facilitate the organisation of elections, key to
the reunification of the country, but often delayed due to
bickering among the warring parties. Gbagbo's tenure expired in
2005.


France, which has aided the UN, said it will soon begin to reduce
its 3,500 troops while the UN which has some 8,000 men said it
will not immediately withdraw but re-deploy its forces across the
country.


The UN's role has been relegated to that of an observer after the
two protagonists signed a landmark deal which saw the ex-rebel
chief appointed prime minister, and a new government installed
within weeks of signing it.


Soro, who led a failed coup to unseat Gbagbo in 2002, setting off
a protracted civil conflict in the world's top cocoa grower, on
Friday asked for forgiveness "for all and in the name of all" and
called for reconciliation during his first address to the nation.


In his own gesture towards reconciliation, Gbagbo enacted Friday
a new amnesty law for national security crimes committed during
the past six and a half years.


Ivory Coast's latest conflict started in 2002 with a rebellion,
mounted by discontented soldiers from the mainly Muslim north who
complained of being marginalised by the Christian-dominated
government of Gbagbo.


Several mediation attempts by former colonial ruler France, the
United Nations and a west African regional bloc fell flat over
the years before the so-called homegrown deal signed on March 4.

