

South Africa's trade union federation COSATU Sunday denied
dropping its support of ANC deputy president Jacob Zuma for the
country's presidency, saying the issue has not been discussed.


A Sunday newspaper reported that leaders of Congress of South
African Trade Unions were reconsidering their support for Zuma
due to his ongoing battle against corruption charges.


"No such discussion has taken place," COSATU spokesman Patrick
Craven said in a statement.


He said the leftist wing of the governing tripartite alliance had
resolved to identify leadership that would best represent the
working class, and this discussion would take place later this
month.


"The discussion is around principles and programmes and only
after these have been adopted will names be discussed," said
Craven.


Zuma has been pegged as a frontrunner in the race to succeed
President Thabo Mbeki, finding support among the working class
who see him as a voice for the poor and marginalised.


The Sunday Times reported COSATU had done an about turn and were
reconsidering the wisdom of their support for Zuma as the sword
of a corruption investigation hangs over his head.


"Imagine a situation where we will have an African National
Congress (ANC) president who will spend most of his time
attending court hearings," the newspaper quoted a COSATU official
as saying.


Zuma, 64, was fired as South Africa's deputy president after his
financial adviser was sentenced to 15 years in jail for
corruption, and he was subsequently charged.


Despite a judge throwing out the charges, linked to a 1999 arms
deal, in September last year, prosecutors are pressing ahead with
efforts to convict him.


During his corruption trial COSATU was at his side voicing their
support, with general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi calling Zuma's
bid for the presidency an "unstoppable tsunami".


Vavi told the Sunday Times the names of candidates had not been
discussed.


The next ANC president, who traditionally goes on to the
country's top job, will be chosen during the party's national
conference in December.

