

Soldiers captured the camp of a Muslim militant in the southern
Philippines after the Muslims broke a truce and shelled a Marine
outpost, a military spokesman said Sunday.


The camp of Habier Malik, a commander of the Moro National
Liberation Front (MNLF), in Panamao town in the southern island
of Jolo was captured by troops with no casualties on the
government side, said Major Eugene Batara.


The forces of Malik are believed to have suffered many casualties
but the whereabouts of Malik is not known, the major added.


"There has been intermittent clashes and the group of Malik is on
the run," Batara said, adding that troops had been deployed to
prevent other Muslim armed groups from coming to Malik's aid.


The attack on Malik's camp came after he and his MNLF followers
used mortars to shell a Marine base near Panamao late Friday,
killing two Marines and a civilian and triggering a firefight.


It was not clear why Malik's forces began shelling the Marine
camp, Batara said.


In February, Malik kidnapped government peace negotiators in Jolo
but released them later after securing a pledge from government
that the plight of jailed former MNLF leader Nur Misuari, was
being closely looked into.


The MNLF was a former Muslim separatist group which signed a
peace pact with the government in 1996. They dropped their
independence bid and opted for limited self-autonomy, and their
leader Nur Misuari was subsequently named governor of a Muslim
region.


Five years after the accord, however, Misuari launched a fresh
rebellion after he lost government's support over alleged
corruption.


Misuari's forces attacked government targets on Jolo and nearby
Zamboanga city, killing over 100. He fled to Malaysia, but was
later captured and deported and is now in jail in a police camp
south of Manila.


He remains an influential figure in Muslim communities in the
south and Malik is a known loyalist of Misuari. The Organization
of Islamic Conference (OIC) has been lobbying for his release to
attend a meeting in Saudi Arabia in July.


The 57-nation OIC recognises the MNLF as the sole representative
of Muslim minorities in the majority Catholic Philippines.

