

Thousands of North Koreans paid their respects Sunday to the
communist state's late founder Kim Il-Sung as the capital took on
a festival atmosphere for his 95th birth anniversary.


Families, with the men in suits and ties and the women in
colourful traditional gowns, took leisurely strolls across
Pyongyang where cherry blossoms were in bloom on one of the most
important dates on its calendar.


At the grey marble Kumsusan mausoleum on the giant Kim Il-Sung
square, thousands poured in to view the embalmed body of the
leader, who died in 1994 but retains the title of "eternal
president."


After passing through stringent security including several metal
detectors and cleaning their shoes in an automatic foot brush,
visitors bowed four times -- at the feet, head and both sides of
Kim's body.


A revolutionary hymn omnipresent in Pyongyang, said to be written
by Kim Il-Sung himself after defeating Japanese colonialists,
played on loudspeakers.


A Kumsusan official said some 50,000 visitors were expected at
the memorial Sunday on the birth anniversary of Kim, whose son
Kim Jong-Il is the current leader.


The visitors were to include 1,200 foreigners, including 300
permanent residents in Pyongyang, such as diplomats and non-
governmental workers brought in from the early morning on a
tramway, the official said.


Foreign guests, given personal headphones in their own languages,
learned about the "burning tears" cried by the Korean people when
Kim Il-Sung breathed his last on July 8, 1994.


Waiting outside in the immense Kim Il-Sung square, former
soldiers decorated with medals and young men serving their
obligatory military service paid respects at a giant portrait of
the former president.


Elsewhere in Pyongyang, families and groups of schoolchildren
bowed deeply and laid flowers in front of a giant bronze statue
of the eternal president outside a museum in his honour.


And just outside downtown Pyongyang, residents flocked to visit
the carefully preserved peasant's hut where the eternal president
grew up.


The festivities started Saturday evening with a mass display of
choreographed gymnastics, which the official Korean Central News
Agency said showed "the politico-ideological might of the
revolutionary ranks single-mindedly united around the
headquarters of the revolution."


The events started just as a deadline passed for North Korea to
shut a nuclear reactor under a six-nation aid-for-disarmament
deal.


North Korea has refused to begin closing the Yongbyon facility
until it sees 25 million dollars that were blacklisted at a bank
in the Chinese territory of Macau.


But not all of Pyongyang was solemn on the special date.


On the banks of the Taedong river that winds through the city,
groups of people enjoyed picnics and sang together under the
cherry blossoms.


And some young North Korean couples strolled together on the
holiday hand-in- hand, showing, in the words of a guide, "very
modern attitudes."

