

Calling home from European beaches will be cheaper for mobile
phone users this summer if EU lawmakers and the European
Commission get their way on planned caps for so-called roaming
rates.


Plans to force operators to charge less on cross-border calls in
the European Union got a boost last week when a key EU panel
backed the package in the face of fierce lobbying from operators
fearful of losing revenues.


The European Parliament's industry committee voted broadly in
favour of capping the price of calls made abroad in the EU at 40
cents per minute and 15 cents for calls received abroad.


The committee's backing sets the stage for a vote before the full
parliament in a plenary session on May 10 in Brussels and a final
decision by EU telecoms ministers on June 7 in Luxembourg.


After the vote, the bill's rapporteur, Austrian conservative Paul
Ruedig, told journalists: "We are sending a very clear message to
the consumers and telecom operators. It's a good basis for our
deliberations."


"I now expect swift and successful negotiations with (EU
governments) so that the new roaming regulation can enter into
force indeed before summer," he said.


The Commission drew up the plans to regulate roaming rates last
year after it found evidence of huge variations between
operators' prices, with some roaming calls costing up to six
times those of local mobile calls.


The EU's executive arm hopes to see roaming charges fall by as
much as 70 percent, thanks to its proposal to cap what operators
charge customers at the retail level and what they charge each
other at the wholesale level.


"In view of the emerging consensus on the new rules, an early
entry into force of the EU roaming regulation is now a very
realistic possibility," EU telecoms Commissioner Viviane Reding
said.


However, the plans, which operators are fighting fiercely to
amend, still face key political, technical and legal hurdles,
raising the prospect that introduction of the price ceilings
could take longer than she hoped.


The chairwoman of the parliament's industry committee, German
conservative Angelika Niebler, warned last week that "this summer
roaming won't be cheaper" for holiday-makers, predicting that the
measures would not be in force before autumn.


Even if there were no disagreements on the details of the package
and EU governments backed it, the measures would not go into
force until the end of June under the version favoured by the
parliament's committee.


If that is the case, lower retail prices would not take effect
until a month later, meaning that consumers would benefit only
from the end of July in the best of circumstances.


While consumers stand to make big savings, the industry says that
they will be forced to offer roaming services at below cost and
has suggested operators would be forced to cover the losses by
raising prices for other services.


In the opposite camp, economist Levi Nietvelt at the BEUC
European consumers' association said: "The price caps are still
too high and should be readjusted to reflect the real costs."


Consumer organisations are also angry that the proposals as they
currently stand are only to be applicable for three years.


"It's more than probable that in three years consumers will still
need the regulations," French consumer association UFC-Que
Choisir said in a statement.

