

With embattled Tour de France champion Floyd Landis on the
sidelines, Discovery Channel's Tom Danielson starts as favorite
to regain the Tour of Georgia crown in the seven-stage, 1,058km
race starting Monday.


Landis' victory here last year foreshadowed his Tour de France
triumph, but that achievement has since been jeopardized as he
battles a doping charge that also helped bring about the
dissolution of his former Phonak team.


Danielson was runner-up to Landis in Georgia last year, and
winner in 2005.


A notable climber, Danielson is expected to benefit from an
uphill time trial on Thursday's stage four, followed by the
rigorous Brasstown Bald climb on stage five.


"Yeah, there is pressure on me," Danielson said. "It's a race
that suits me, and people will be looking to me to step up. But
I'm ready for it. This is my race, but I have to perform first.
That's my responsibility."


Discovery, one of five Pro Tour teams entered, also fields Levi
Leipheimer, who won the Tour of California in February, and
George Hincapie, who broke his wrist in the Tour of California
and was forced to forego the bone-crunching cobblestones of
Sunday's Paris-Roubaix one-day classic.


Gianni Meersman, Pavel Padrnos, Jason McCartney, Brain Vandborg
and Jose Luis Rubiera complete Discovery's lineup.


American David Zabriskie spearhead's CSC's challenge, while
Saunier Duval's lineup features Britain's David Millar and two-
time Giro winner Gilberto Simoni.


One of the more intriguing names, however, comes from lesser
ranks of the Pro Continental squads, as Tinkoff's Tyler Hamilton
makes his return to US racing after a two-year doping ban.


The 2007 edition of the Tour of Georgia is one day longer, and
features three significantly altered stages and two new stages.
It will conclude on April 22 with a circuit race that starts and
ends in Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park.


2007 Tour of Georgia stages


Stage 1: April 16, 158.6km from Peachtree City, Georgia, to
Macon, Georgia


Stage 2: April 17, 217.1km from Thomaston, Georgia, to Rome,
Georgia


Stage 3: April 18, 190.2km from Rome, Georgia, to Chattanooga,
Tennessee


Stage 4: April 19, 30.4km  Individual time trial from
Chickamauga, Georgia,


to Lookout Mountain, Georgia


Stage 5: April 20, 172.1km from Dalton Georgia to Brasstown Bald
Mountain


Stage 6: April 21, 182.9km from Lake Lanier Islands, Georgia to
Stone


Mountain, Georgia


Stage 7: April 22, 107.5km Atlanta, Georgia, circuit race

