

Sunderland manager Roy Keane hailed the gritty character of Grant
Leadbitter as the local hero scored his second late winner in two
games to put the Black Cats a step closer to the Premiership.


The Sunderland-born 21-year-old, a lifelong fan of Keane's team,
came off the bench and ensured they extended their lead at the
top of the Championship to four points on Saturday with a 2-1 win
over visitors QPR.


"Grant was unlucky not to be in the starting XI but that's what
you need if you want to be a top club," said Keane.


"He signed a new contract a few weeks ago, so maybe he should
have waited a little longer before negotiating it!


"But he's knuckled down and it's great for the supporters to see
a local lad coming through the ranks and making an impact.


"We've got a lot of lads who won trophies at Celtic or Manchester
United, and played in World Cups, and they're playing with great
freedom."


Leadbitter's goal sent Sunderland top of the table in Monday's
2-1 win at Southampton and the midfielder hit a 76th-minute
winner against QPR in front of 39,206 fans at the Stadium of
Light.


Fellow midfielder Dean Whitehead opened the scoring in the
seventh minute but Martin Rowlands had equalised with a penalty
in the 23rd minute.


At Portman Road, second-placed Derby were stung by an 89th-minute
penalty in a stormy 2-1 defeat at mid-table Ipswich, which
featured 10 yellow cards and two reds.


"Two individual errors cost us dearly," said Derby boss Billy
Davies. "Two of three clubs can now gain automatic promotion and
I am delighted that we are one of those with every possibility of
getting over the line."


Third-placed Birmingham took full advantage, beating play-off
chasing visitors Southampton 2-1 at St Andrews to go one point
behind Derby.


Birmingham have four matches left, while all the other promotion-
chasing sides have just three.


"After losing the two games over Easter, it was the worst I had
ever felt in football as a player or a manager," Blues boss Steve
Bruce said.


"This league kicks you in the teeth. But now we have things back
in our own hands. That's all you can ask with four games to go.
If we win the next four games, we are promoted."


Preston are fourth, six points behind Birmingham after a 4-0 win
at Coventry. West Bromwich, who lost 1-0 at home to Sheffield
Wednesday on Friday, are fifth on goal difference, a point behind
Preston.


The Baggies' bitter rivals Wolverhampton are sixth following
their 2-2 draw at Crystal Palace. They occupy the last of the
four play-off spots.


Leeds, Southend and Luton remain in the bottom three, despite
2001 Champions League semi-finalists Leeds's 1-0 win at home to
Burnley.


In League One directly below, table-toppers Scunthorpe ensured
promotion with a 2-0 win over visitors Huddersfield.


Meanwhile in League Two, Hartlepool and Walsall secured promotion
and Torquay were relegated out of the Football League to the
Conference National.

