

Choi Chu-cheung's six-storey house sticks out like a sore thumb
in a patch of newly-levelled land sandwiched amid the gleaming
skyscrapers of Shenzhen's financial district.


With a stock exchange and a branch of China's central bank only
two blocks away, Choi is convinced his house is a property gold
mine.


But Choi is refusing to sell at the price he has been offered by
developers in this southern Chinese boomtown bordering Hong Kong.


His stubbornness is holding up construction of what would be the
jewel of Shenzhen, an 88-storey skyscraper that would overlook
every other block in the fast-growing city.


Choi's 10-year old villa-style house sits in a construction pit
10 metres deep, a solitary building in a sea of rubble.


All his neighbours eagerly sold out but Choi refused, saying the
purchase offer of 5.06 million yuan (650,000 US dollars) was just
a third of the plot's value.


"They want us to accept their offers and want us to be obedient.
They are very arrogant," he said outside his house, which is
draped with a red banner reading: "Law protects private and legal
property. How can you rob us?"


"I own my land and I have the rights to live here. What they are
doing is unreasonable. If I do what they want, there would be no
justice."


Choi, 57, vowed to stay put until the property developers offer
at least 14 million yuan or land of equal value.


"My ancestors have lived here for a few hundred years," he said.
"I have a lot of feelings for this house. What I am asking is
very reasonable."


His self-built house is the latest in what have become known as
"stubborn nails" -- homes whose owners hold out against
redevelopment plans for China's crumbling old neighbourhoods.


They first came to world attention via Wu Ping, who defied
developers' and authorities' orders to bulldoze her home in
central China's Chongqing.


Such rebels have become a symbol of the growing discontent among
hundreds and thousands of ordinary Chinese who have been
displaced from their homes -- often against their will -- in
China's haste to modernise.


Murky definitions about who owns what are at the core of the
problem, which has sparked some of modern China's bloodiest civil
disturbances.


Parliament passed a landmark law solidifying private property
rights this month, partly to combat such disputes, but still they
continue.


Choi, his wife and 37-year-old unemployed son built the villa in
what was a 700 -year-old village until it was swamped by Shenzhen
city -- and before the economic boom turned it into one of the
most expensive areas in southern China.


Shenzhen land resources and housing management bureau ordered
them to move out by Thursday, but they refused to budge. Choi
said his action was inspired by Chingqong's Wu.


Local residents marvel at his determination.


"This land was passed on from generation to generation. They
can't suddenly take it back and give them so little money. This
is private property and he is right to safeguard his interests,"
said Mrs Chan, a resident of 20 years.


Choi was born in Shenzhen when it was a sleepy fishing village,
before late Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping's reforms turned it into
a manufacturing centre.


He spent 20 years in Hong Kong before moving back to his hometown
to build the red-brick family home.


He used to rent out some of the floors but his tenants moved out
when the eviction notice was served last September and the
bulldozers arrived.


Choi believes the property developers are backed by the local
authorities and claims the relative of a powerful political
figure is also involved. He said they have played tough to drive
his family out.


"They smashed some of our windows, they stuck toothpicks into the
key holes, they wee and poo around our house," he said.


"They especially like to cut off our water and electricity when
we are cooking," he said. "This happens every week."


Choi also owns a flat in another building on the same site, but
that was destroyed without warning.


"One day it was fine, and the next day it was gone. Everything in
there, including the door, gate and TV, were gone. I was shocked.
I didn't even sign anything that allowed them to demolish it," he
sighed.


The property developers denied any involvement.


Choi quit his job as a builder when the demolition work began to
ensure at least one family member is always there to stop the
wreckers moving in.


"What is the difference between our life in this house and our
life in prison?" asked Choi's wife Zhang Lianhao.

