

Four Afghan employees of a US-owned private security firm were
killed in a suicide attack near a base housing thousands of
international troops on Sunday, police said.


The attacker, carrying explosives on a motorbike, targeted a US
Protection and Investigations (USPI) vehicle just a few hundred
metres (yards) from Kandahar airfield, a base for the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force.


"There was a suicide attack against a vehicle of the USPI. Three
guards and a driver were killed and another guard was injured," a
police officer at a nearby checkpost told AFP.


The bombing in this volatile southern city was the second suicide
attack in the country in as many days after eight people, mostly
police, were killed in a blast in the eastern city of Khost.


Nearly a dozen other people were injured in Saturday's blast
which was claimed by the Taliban.


Militants from the Taliban regime toppled by a US-led invasion in
2001 have threatened a wave of suicide bombings this year as the
rebels step up their campaign against the US-backed government of
President Hamid Karzai.


Hundreds of people, most of them civilians, were killed in about
150 such attacks carried out last year.


Separately, an explosion caused by a landmine rocked the capital,
Kabul, but caused no casualties, police and witnesses said.


The mine exploded in a pile of dirt lying on the bank of the
Kabul river in the western part of the city. Afghanistan was
plagued by millions of mines during the 1979-89 Soviet occupation
and later in the 1992-1996 civil war in the country.


Ali Shah Paktiawal, the head of the counter-criminal department
with Kabul police, earlier said the blast was a controlled-
explosion carried out by Afghan security forces.


But witness and police told AFP at the blast site that the mine
went off by itself. No one was hurt, they added.


The area lies near the city's zoo, which had become a front line
in the fighting between rival factions of mujahedin who were
involved in a bloody power struggle after the collapse of the
communist regime in 1992.


The factional fighting left tens of thousands of people dead and
destroyed much of the Afghan capital.

