

The ballooning pay packets of the world's top hedge fund traders
have hit the stratosphere with some salaries now topping a
billion dollars, but fears are mounting about an industry bubble.


Snapping at the heels of the elite are dozens of money managers
-- working in New York and London -- who banked hundreds of
million of dollars in pay, according to an annual survey by
Trader Monthly magazine published last week.


The identities of those who have gained entree to the billion-
dollar club through running a hedge fund, in essence a secretive
capital pool, are not household names, and many members prefer it
that way.


The top five hedge fund managers earned 10-digit packages in 2006
while 93 other traders banked an average of 241 million dollars,
the Trader Monthly survey found.


"Compensation for hedge fund managers has exploded as more
investors have invested in hedge funds," observed Rea Hederman,
an economics expert and senior policy analyst at The Heritage
Foundation.


Hederman said investors do not seem to mind the huge salaries
taken by managers of funds that perform well, but said some
"hedge funds have not delivered the returns that the investors
might have wanted."


The secretive nature of hedge funds adds to their allure, but
fears about insider trading and a lack of regulation have sparked
congressional hearings into the trillion-dollar industry.


Concerns that a major hedge fund collapse could topple a major
bank or banks and trigger a wider run on the US banking system
are also giving some lawmakers headaches.


The implosion of the Connecticut-based Amaranth hedge fund in
September with six billion dollars in losses increased such
worries.


And despite the perception that hedge fund investors reap
lucrative returns, market data appears to show that stock market
investors can fare just as well in the financial jungle.


In 2006, the average hedge fund return to investors was 11.99
percent, according to the HedgeFund.net website while the broad-
market Standard and Poor's 500 index posted a gain of 13.62
percent, according to Thomson Financial.


Some market observers fear too many investors are piling into
hedge funds chasing a gold rush that could fuel a market
collapse.


"This is only one more indicator of how far the bubble has
expanded, how investors have rushed into hedge funds and private
equity and other equity products," said Alan Johnson, a director
of Johnson Associates.


"It's exactly reminiscent of the tech bubble of the late 1990s,
early 2000s. To some degree, it's madness," Johnson said, adding
"we believe the bubble is going to burst at some point."


But for now top earners cited in the Trader Monthly survey, such
as 33-year-old former Enron trader John Arnold who runs the
Texas-based Centaurus Energy fund, are sitting pretty on
mountains of cash.


Arnold, who grabbed the top spot in the rankings, received an
estimated 1.5 billion to two billion dollars last year, the
magazine said. He has reportedly overseen staggering returns of
317 percent, largely due to massive bets on the price direction
of natural gas.


Despite coveting anonymity, Arnold and his associates seem proud
of their bulging wallets.


"Traders get paid in cash. It's liquid. It's real. You can go,
'Here, look,' and slap someone across the face with it," one of
Arnold's associates told Trader Monthly.


However, as seasoned Las Vegas gamblers well know, a player can
be up one minute and down the next.


Brian Hunter, a former high-earning hedge fund trader who
previously made Trader Monthly's list, was missing from this
year's table.


US media reports have said Hunter was largely responsible for
Amaranth's melt- down, tied to a series of disastrous energy
trading bets, although Hunter is now reportedly trying to set up
a new hedge fund.

