

China's booming economy is being increasingly constrained by
shortages of energy and natural resources as well as
environmental concerns -- forcing the nation to seek a more
efficient growth model.


According to high-ranking officials in Beijing, there is simply
not enough fuel around on the planet to sustain a Chinese boom
using the same energy-intensive recipe that made the western
nations rich.


China would need 4.5 billion tonnes of oil annually if it
consumed energy like the United States, according to Xu Dingming,
the vice head of an energy task force at the National Development
and Reform Commission, the country's economic planner.


But the annual global oil supply is just four billion tonnes,
including 1.6 billion tonnes in commercial circulation, Xinhua
news agency quoted Xu as saying earlier this month.


Officials are aware of the looming pressures, but they also say
it will not be easy to change an economic formula that has
resulted in a 25-year boom with little attention to efficiency or
the environment.


"Over the past two years we've seen a change, as the government
has acknowledged environmental degradation is resulting in social
instability," Yang Ailun, Greenpeace China's expert on climate
change, told AFP.


She mentioned policies to improve energy efficiency by 20 percent
by 2010 and make renewable energy account for 16 percent of
overall output by 2020 -- up from about 7.5 percent now -- as
examples of a new outlook from Beijing.


Greenpeace is supportive of the changes, but the government's
difficulty will come in taking such ambitious targets and
executing them at the local level, she added.


Nowhere are China's intensifying growing pains more apparent than
in its burgeoning love affair with the automobile.


Thirty million private cars are plying the nation's roads, a
number that is increasing by 20 percent annually.


According to Pan Yue, the outspoken vice head of the State
Environmental Protection Administration, the government's car
policy has also resulted in daily gridlock in major cities,
already among the world's most polluted.


"Beijing has automotive exhaust standards, but the air keeps
getting more polluted because more cars are being introduced,"
Pan said in an article last week in the Study Times, an
influential Communist Party publication.


"We need to make environmental assessments that can set the
environmental capacity of an area ... and ensure that economic
development does not surpass the capacity of the environment."


Pan's article was focused on the need to incorporate
environmental parameters into overall macro-economic planning at
the central government level.


Oil is only one of the huge problems facing China's 1.3 billion
people, he said.


Inefficient energy use, shortages in land, fresh water, mineral
resources and biodiversity were exacerbating rampant pollution
and backward industrial growth, he said.


"Our limited resources are being polluted and destroyed. If we
continue in this way we will make all the talk about sustainable
development empty nonsense," Pan said.


China's per capita arable land resources were one-tenth of those
of the United States, while per capita water resources were a
quarter of the world average, falling to a sixteenth in the
Beijing-Tianjin region, he said.


"We face the constraints of energy resources and other natural
resources (so) we cannot copy the existing consumption pattern of
energy in developed countries," Zhou Dadi, the top energy planner
at the National Development and Reform Commission, said in a
speech late last month.


"China has to develop a new approach of industrialisation, using
energy and other resources more efficiently, even more efficient
than achieved by the best practice in the world now."


The country would strive to cut coal use, which makes up 70
percent of its energy production, and seek to burn it cleaner and
more efficiently, Zhou said.


Much of China's move toward renewable energy would include hefty
increases in hydroelectricity and nuclear power, he added.

