

Malaysian police on Sunday detained a Myanmar couple for
suspected abduction after they confessed to sheltering a missing
boy for two weeks amid a nationwide hunt to find him.


The saga of the missing five-year-old, Muhammad Nazrin Shamsul
Ghazali, or Yin, came to an end Saturday when he was reunited
with his family after disappearing from a shopping mall in Kuala
Lumpur on March 31.


Police said the couple, Abdul Rahman Doriraman and his wife,
Rasidah Nurislah, were detained for suspected kidnapping as they
had failed to inform police as soon as they found the boy and had
instead brought him to their home.


"They have been detained to assist us in our investigations. They
are suspected of having abducted the boy," Dang Wangi district
police chief Mohamad Zulkarnain Abdul Rahman told AFP.


"This is because 14 days is a very long time. We have to detain
them to investigate why they did not come forward to police
earlier, even though there was a nationwide and highly publicised
hunt for him," Mohamad Zulkarnain said.


He said the Myanmar couple were refugees registered with the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Malaysia. They
have been residing here for the past 19 years.


Kuala Lumpur acting police chief Zul Hasnan Najib Baharudin said
the couple were believed to be beggers and had allegedly used Yin
to beg for money as well, state Bernama news agency reported
Sunday.


"The police have received information from a witness who claims
that the couple used the child to beg for money around the Klang
Valley," Zul Hasnan said, according to Bernama.


He said medical checks on the boy also revealed that he had never
suffered from chicken pox, as was claimed by the couple after
they were questioned by police on why they had shaved Yin's head
bald.


The couple had been sheltering Yin at their home in the suburbs
of the city after they found him trying to cross a busy street
alone in front of the mall, the Star newspaper on Sunday said.


They claim to have only realised he was a missing boy after
seeing a poster of Yin at the mall on Saturday, the newspaper
said.


They promptly contacted a number on the poster which led to Yin
being reunited with his family.


Rasidah, who has five children of her own, told the Star that she
did not own a television set and so was unaware of the boy's
disappearance.


Yin's father, Shamsul Ghazali Shamsudin, could not be reached for
comment.


Yin's disappearance was widely covered by the local media, with
most newspapers carrying a missing person's picture in efforts to
help find the boy.


Thousands of posters were also distributed at locations around
the country and a reward of 15,000 ringgit (4,360 dollars) was
offered for information on his whereabouts.

