

South Africa captain Graeme Smith believes his team's greater
experience will be crucial when they clash with England in a
make-or-break World Cup clash on Tuesday.


South Africa slumped to a five-wicket defeat at the hands of New
Zealand here on Saturday to leave their hopes of making the semi-
finals hanging by a thread.


But if they win the Super Eight clash in Barbados their last four
place will be assured where they will join defending champions
Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka.


"We will bounce back. We have lots of experience and we are
looking forward to playing England," said Smith. "It's a crunch
game."


South Africa were put into bat on Saturday and struggled to 193-7
with the Black Caps seamers, led by Shane Bond, making the most
of the overcast conditions to put the Proteas immediately on the
back foot.


"The guys are disappointed to lose but I'm not unhappy with the
way we played because the conditions had such a bearing on the
game," added Smith.


"In the first 20 overs it was difficult to get through and hard
to set a big total. We did well to drag it out until the 49th
over when they batted.


"If we had got to 220-230, it would have given us a real chance."


New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming, who made 50 in his team's
reply, admitted the toss had been crucial.


"It helped a lot. We had to use the conditions well and getting
two early wickets was crucial," said Fleming whose side had South
Africa 3-2 at one stage with both Smith and AB de Villiers, who
suffered a fourth nought of the World Cup, back in the pavilion
by the third over.


"It's nice to be through to the semi-finals.


"There was a lot on the line today. We were a little tight but we
wanted to make sure we could grind it out. We knew that if we
could bat for 45 overs, we'd be close to winning."


New Zealand's last Super Eights match will be against bitter
rivals Australia here on Friday.


"That's the toughest you can get and we've had some good battles
of late, so there's a great game coming up."


All-rounder Craig McMillan took three wickets for 23 and added an
unbeaten 38 runs to be named man-of-the-match.


"I haven't taken that many wickets for a while. To pick up three
was a bit unheard of," said McMillan.

