

UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Monday opens high-level talks here with
the African Union (AU) on Darfur that could clear the way for
deploying a sizable UN force in the strife-torn Sudanese region.


Ban was to hold two days of talks with Alpha Oumar Konare, the
chairman of the AU Commission, to nail down a tentative deal
reached with Khartoum to send about 2,300 UN troops to Darfur to
bolster 7,000 under-equipped AU troops.


The two men were also to focus on the final phase of the United
Nations plan expected to culminate in the deployment of a
20,000-strong joint UN-AU force in Darfur.


UN deputy spokeswoman Marie Okabe said Friday that Ban and Konare
would brief the UN Security Council on their deliberations Monday
afternoon.


"This will be an important opportunity to generate additional
momentum to the peace process," she noted.


Ban and Konare "will consider how best to give new impetus to the
political process and the efforts of the special envoys wich are
indispensable for the attainment of a lasting peace in Darfur,"
she added


Also Monday the UN special envoy for Darfur, Jan Eliasson, and
his AU counterpart Selim Ahmad Selim, who are tasked with
reviving and broadening the wobbly peace agreement reached
between Khartoum and Darfur rebels last May, were to brief the
Security Council on the political track of the UN settlement
plan.


The upcoming UN consultations coincide with a flurry of
international diplomatic activity to end the festering
humanitarian crisis in Darfur, where four years of ethnic strife
have resulted in at least 200,000 deaths and displaced more than
two million people, according to UN figures.


Libya announced Friday it would host an international conference
on Darfur on April 28, with representatives of the United States,
Britain, Sudan, Chad, Eritrea, the AU and the European Union
expected to attend.


Libya's number-two diplomat, Abdel Salem Triki, also shuttled
between Chad and Sudan after the two countries became embroiled
in border clashes.


Chadian troops chased rebels across the border with Darfur last
Monday, sparking a battle with the Sudanese army. Khartoum said
17 of its troops were killed, while Chad reported about 30 killed
on the two sides


Chad apologized for the incident but Sudan insisted it wanted
further assurances.


Foreign envoys also lined up to confer with Sudanese President
Omar al-Beshir: South African President Thabo Mbeki was in
Khartoum Wednesday while US Deputy Secretary of State John
Negroponte arrived there Thursday to press the Sudanese to accept
the joint AU-UN force in Darfur.


Meanwhile in Washington, President George W. Bush's
administration came under fire in Congress after a senior
official revealed that Bush had again delayed imposing sanctions
against Sudan over Darfur.


Andrew Natsios, Bush's special envoy to Sudan, told a Senate
panel the delay was decided because the UN secretary general had
requested another two to four weeks to persuade Khartoum to allow
UN peacekeepers into Darfur.


Natsios said the US sanctions package now on Bush's desk includes
financial actions against 29 Sudanese companies and tougher
implementation of existing sanctions on 130 other firms, all
linked to the government.


Thursday Ban sought to reassure Sudan that helicopter gunships to
be used by UN peacekeepers in Darfur would be used for
deterrence, not for offensive purposes.


"There seems to be some misunderstanding on the part of the
Sudanese government on this equipment," he said, referring to the
helicopter gunships. "This is not for any offensive purpose ...
When you deploy troops you need to have mobility with some
capacity for deterrence."


Monday after talks involving UN, AU and Sudanese government
officials in Addis Ababa over the three-phase UN Darfur plan,
Khartoum agreed to allow the UN to start sending reinforcements
to AU troops in Darfur.


But the Sudanese said they had a problem with the use of
helicopter gunships and said they would gove a response "within
days".


Khartoum, whose troops and allied Janjawed militia have been
blamed by humanitarian agencies for widespread killing, rapes and
burning of villages in Darfur, has opposed any large-scale UN
military deployment.

