

Opponents of President Vladimir Putin began arriving in Saint
Petersburg for a protest rally Sunday, a day after police broke
up a protest in Moscow and arrested of opposition leader Garry
Kasparov.


The Other Russia, a coalition of groups that accuse Putin of
creating an authoritarian state, was planning to march through
the centre of Russia's second city.


The authorities say the protestors are allowed only to
demonstrate in a fixed location and that any attempt to march
will be blocked.


The warning raised the spectre of a repeat of Saturday's events
in Moscow, where 9,000 riot police and soldiers were deployed to
prevent less than 2,000 Other Russia activists marching
peacefully to a central square.


Police arrested some 200 protestors including Kasparov, one of
Other Russia's leaders and the former world chess champion. He
was released late Saturday after being fined the equivalent of 40
dollars (30 euros).


In Saint Petersburg, arrests began hours before the activists had
even gathered.


Marina Litvinovich, an aide to Kasparov, said she and eight more
members of The Other Russia were detained on arrival in Saint
Petersburg early Sunday.


"We were arrested when we got off the train. They told us this
was connected to the demonstration," she told Echo of Moscow
radio by telephone. "Formally, this was for a documents check,
but then they told us we were on the federal wanted list.... They
did not say why."


Tensions are rising ahead of the March 2008 presidential election
to replace Putin, who is constitutionally required to step down
at the end of his second term.


Putin, who has overseen rapid economic growth in Russia, is
widely popular and analysts believe that whomever the former KGB
officer endorses as his successor will face little opposition in
securing the Kremlin.


Opponents say that overwhelming dominance is the result of a
powerful state media machine, an economic bonanza from high world
oil prices, and the growing power of the security forces.


The Other Russia ranges from pro-Western liberals to radical
leftists, groups with little in common other than the stated goal
of pushing for democratic elections in 2008.

