

China CITIC Bank, the latest Chinese lender to announce its
international listing, said Sunday it hopes to raise 10.26
billion US dollars when it goes public at the end of the month.


Launching the prospectus for its initial public offering, China's
seventh largest bank said that it will offer investors 7.19
billion shares in a dual listing in Hong Kong and Shanghai, set
for April 27.


The bank will issue 4.89 H-Shares listed in Hong Kong to
investors in the southern Chinese territory and international
buyers.


The bank has an option to issue an additional 732 million more if
the offer is over-subscribed.


Spain's BBVA bank and CITIC International Finance Holdings
(CIFH), each of which have large stakes in the bank, will also be
issued 7.6 billion H-Shares in the flotation.


The indicative price range for the H-shares shares is 5.06-5.86
Hong Kong dollars (0.72-0.74 US dollars) each and they are
expected to raise up to 8.7 billion US dollars.


The international offer launches Monday and closes Thursday, with
the final price expected to be announced a day later.


The A-Share offer of stock to be listed on the Shanghai bourse
will be sold in China, priced at a mid-range of 5.4 yuan (0.66 US
dollars) and is expected to raise a further 1.56 billion US
dollars.


In a press conference from Beijing and San Francisco, where
executives are on a roadshow to promote the IPO, bank chairman
Kong Dan stressed the company's competitiveness.


"We are a fast-growing commercial bank," Kong said. "We believe
we have strong full-service capabilities to offer a comprehensive
range of products and services to customers nationwide."


The bank won approval for the Hong Kong listing in March.


At the end of 2006, the bank's capital adequacy ratio -- a basic
measure of financial health -- stood at 9.4 percent, up from 8.1
percent in 2005.


With corporate banking its core business, CITIC Bank has courted
strategic investors, selling a 16.4 percent stake to CITIC
International Financial Holdings, CITIC Group's Hong Kong-based
flagship company, and a 4.83 percent share to BBVA, Spain's
second-largest bank.


About 20.7 percent of the new shares would be offered to the two
strategic investors so that their stakes would not be diluted,
the South China Morning Post reported earlier, citing a sales
document sent to fund managers.


CITIC Bank will become the second lender, after Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China last year, to list simultaneously in
Shanghai and Hong Kong.

