

Australian conglomerate Wesfarmers Sunday said it would finalise
an offer for retail giant Coles as soon as possible, but refused
to say if it would raise its 19.7 billion dollar (16.4 billion
US) bid.


Wesfarmers is the frontrunner to take over Coles, the country's
second largest retailer, after the group's announcement of an
effective competitive auction of its assets in February.


If its 19.7 billion dollar bid is successful, Wesfarmers will
have spearheaded one of the largest takeovers in Australian
corporate history.


But it faces competition from a field reported to include a
private equity group led by US-based Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
(KKR), British supermarket chain Tesco and Australia's biggest
retailer Woolworths, Coles' rival.


Wesfarmers chief executive Richard Goyder would not say whether
the current offer of 16.47 dollars per share offer was the final
price.


"I'm saying we are focused on the process of getting in, doing
the due diligence and putting an offer in as quickly as we can,"
he told state television.


"A proposal could be put to Coles shareholders very quickly.
We've put forward a compelling offer, one that is real value to
Coles' shareholders that can be implemented quickly."


Goyder said Coles' assets, which include supermarkets, liquor and
petrol outlets, a chain of office supplies stores and discount
department stores Target and Kmart, would provide good returns to
shareholders.


"I'm not going into specifics other than we think Target and
Officeworks will exceed our hurdle rates in terms of an
investment and we'd be looking at a very strong return on the
investment in the everyday needs (food, liquor and petrol
businesses) given that will be a leveraged vehicle," Goyder said.


Under the offer from the Western Australian-based industrial,
Wesfarmers would own Target and Officeworks.


It would hold a 50 percent stake in the supermarket, liquor and
gasoline businesses and Kmart, with the remainder held by its
consortium partners -- local private equity firm Pacific Equity
Partners, Europe's Permira and Macquarie Bank.


Coles last year rejected an offer of 15.25 dollars from KKR,
saying it significantly undervalued the group.

