

Malaysia may soon have its own canine unit to fight disc piracy
after the resounding success of two dogs who helped sniff out
millions of dollars' worth of fake DVDs and CDs, reports said
Sunday.


Anti-piracy canines Lucky and Flo had so far discovered caches of
1.3 million discs, 97 DVD burners and 30,000 recordable discs
worth 11.7 million ringgit (3.4 million dollars), leading to the
arrests of 14 people, the Star daily said Sunday.


Malaysian piracy syndicates are now trying to kill the black
Labradors and have raised the bounty on the canines up to five
times to 50,000 ringgit each.


Mohamad Roslan Mahayuddin, the Domestic Trade and Consumer
Affairs Ministry's enforcement director, said the dogs were so
effective the ministry was mulling setting up its own canine unit
to fight piracy, the Star reported.


"The dogs have been a success. Within a month, we have achieved
tremendous results. The ministry is doing a study to see if we
should set up a canine unit," Roslan was quoted as saying.


The Labradors, which hail from Northern Ireland, are said to be
the only ones in the world trained to detect polycarbonate and
chemicals used in optical discs.


"If they (the Malaysian government) do decide to set up a unit,
then we would support them by donating two dogs," said Neil Gane,
an official with the US- based Motion Picture Association (MPA),
which investigates piracy for major movie companies.


Gane told AFP the MPA, which provided Lucky and Flo to Malaysia
for a one-month trial, would train more dogs and provide
technical knowledge to Malaysian handlers.


The MPA said a recent study found that its member firms, which
include the world's biggest movie studios, lost 6.1 billion
dollars to worldwide piracy in 2005.


In their latest raid on Friday, Lucky and Flo had helped
enforcement officers seize pirated copies of movies worth more
than one million ringgit hidden in 11 shops at a shopping mall in
southern Johor state.


Enforcement officers also discovered about 5,000 child
pornographic DVDs at one of the shops, the New Straits Times said
Sunday.

