

Inflation in Latvia is skyrocketing, sparking stark warnings from
international observers of a looming economic crisis in the
Baltic state, but local analysts say the doom and gloom is
misplaced.


Latvian experts claim outsiders who recommend what economists
call a "potato diet" are misreading the situation.


They also say medicine being prescribed to stop a "hard landing"
could drive yet more Latvian workers abroad in search of better
job opportunities.


Earlier this week, Latvian authorities announced that inflation
over 12 months had hit 8.5 percent in March -- the country's
highest rate since the mid-1990s, and top of the table in the
27-nation European Union.


International ratings agencies Fitch and Standard and Poor's have
both recently revised downward their outlook on Latvia from
"stable" to "negative".


The agencies and other bodies such as the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund have repeatedly said a tighter fiscal
policy and more effective anti- inflation measures are needed.


There are growing calls for the government to beef up a package
of measures it announced last month to damp down consumption in
an effort to cut inflation to 2.0-3.0 percent by 2010-11.


"The Latvian economy shouldn't be cured with hungry tummies,"
Raita Karnite, director of the Institute of Economics at the
Latvian Academy of Sciences, told AFP.


The term "potato diet" was used for a package of tough measures
introduced in Denmark in 1986 to stem an economic crisis by
discouraging households from borrowing money and encouraging
savings.


Key features included less generous borrowing allowances and a 20
percent tax on interest payments on consumer loans.


What worked in a Western country like Denmark with a solid
welfare state and a tradition of political consensus could be
socially and politically impossible in Latvia, which only emerged
from communist rule in 1991 after regaining independence from the
collapsing Soviet Union.


High inflation has gone hand in hand with breakneck growth:
Latvia's GDP increased by a record 11.9 percent in 2006 and is
forecast to expand by 9.0 percent this year.


But while life for many Latvians is better now than when Moscow
was in control, the gains are unequally spread.


"Segregation in society is very steep. The vast majority of
Latvia's 2.3 million people are poor. Less than 20 percent of the
population can be considered upper and middle class by Western
standards," said Karnite.


"If the economy was cured on the backs of ordinary people, the
majority of those still able to work would leave the country
immediately," she warned.


Latvia, like neighbouring Lithuania and Estonia and five other
ex-communist states, joined the European Union in 2004.


Since then, Latvians have been leaving en masse to those fellow
EU countries which have thrown open their labour markets, notably
Britain and Ireland.


According to recent research by the University of Latvia, at
least 86,000 Latvians work abroad. The figure represents around
10 percent of Latvia's labour force.


"A potato diet would quickly fill the low-cost planes flying to
Dublin, London and elsewhere. That's a key reason why the anti-
inflation steps are moderate," said Andris Vilks, an analyst at
the Swedish-owned SEB Unibanka in Latvia.


The inflation rate is "shocking" and the "euphoria of
consumption" must be cooled down, Vilks conceded.


"But let's not sink into hysteria that the theoretical situation
resembles the eve of a possible crisis. Economic developments
here don't follow theories," he said.


"Since Latvia regained its independence in 1991 and started a
transition period, its economy should have collapsed at least
twice: in 1995 after a banking crisis and in 1998 after the
economic crash in Russia. It didn't happen and appears unlikely
to happen now."


Others, however, warn against such optimism, pointing notably to
snowballing real estate prices.


The cost of property has doubled in the past two years, and an
apartment in a Soviet-era housing block in Riga now fetches
around 3,000 euros (4,000 dollars) per square metre (11 square
feet).


"Prices continue growing and exceed any logically understandable
level. I don't understand why the government had been so
toothless so far in slowing it down," Edgars Sins, head of the
biggest Latvian real estate company Latio, told AFP.


The Latvian government's own inflation-busting package includes
restrictions on issuing personal loans and mortgages, as well as
taxation of some property deals and a limit on public sector
salary increases.


The authorities can afford to go further, said Sins.


"Strict taxing on speculative deals would not harm normal people
as they cannot afford to pay such astronomic prices anyway," he
said.


But Vilks cautioned against a knee-jerk reaction.


"Let's still wait until the end of the summer, when the
international ratings agencies review their forecasts. Then we'll
see who was closer to the truth about what medicine, if any, is
needed for the Latvian economy," he said.

