

Nigerians on Sunday awaited the results of the previous day's
governorship elections in the federation's 36 states, amid fears
that the news in some states such as Lagos could trigger violent
incidents.


The first results could be announced in early afternoon, said
Philip Umeadi, an official from the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC).


"The late start in many polling stations has led to a delay in
the announcement of results", Umeadi told journalists.


Saturday's vote was marked by a number of incidents that the
European Union observer mission called "worrisome".


Local media reported violent incidents across the country
Saturday and gave wildly differing casualty figures that ranged
from around 40 to 130.


President Olusegun Obasanjo and electoral officials confirmed
that there had been "skirmishes" in some parts of the country.


According to an opinion poll published on Saturday by This Day
newspaper, the results in 16 out of 36 states could be too close
to call.


One of those states is the Lagos, which has been controlled by an
opposition party, the Action Congress, for the past eight years.


The ruling PDP, which currently controls 28 states, has vowed to
conquer Lagos this time round.


There are fears that if INEC does announce a PDP victory for
Lagos, supporters of governor Bola Tinubu could stage violent
demonstrations.


Security remained tight Sunday ahead of the announcement of
results, notably in Lagos.


There, an AFP correspondent saw dozens of road blocks manned by
soldiers carrying out searches on vehicles and individuals.


Radio Nigeria also reported Sunday that soldiers were out on the
streets of other Nigerian cities such as Akure, Abeokuta, Osogbo,
Bauchi, Ilorin and Gombe.


The Nigerian electoral agency INEC said Friday that it would not
release partial results any of the elections.


This would be the case both for Saturday's state governorship and
state assembly polls and next Saturday's presidential and
National Assembly polls.


"Only complete and definitive election results will be announced.
There is no provision for release of bits and and pieces of
result for any election," said an INEC statement.


The April 21 presidential and national assembly polls are
expected to usher in Nigeria's first civilian-to-civilian
transition since the former British colony gained independence in
1960.

