

Rescue workers on Sunday searched for survivors after a flash
flood killed at least 37 tourists who were cooling off in two
waterfalls in southern Thailand.


Authorities resumed the hunt at dawn after a torrent of water
poured over the waterfalls Saturday afternoon in Trang, a seaside
province 700 kilometres (440 miles) south of Bangkok.


The tragedy occurred as the country was celebrating the Buddhist
New Year.


"The death toll has increased to 37. All bodies have been
identified, including an 18-year-old Laos national," Thai health
ministry secretary Prat Boonyawongvirot said in a statement.


Hospital officials in Trang said 17 of the dead were children.


Anxious and tearful relatives gathered by the waterfalls as
police divers and rescue workers in life jackets scoured the
river for survivors or victims of the flash flood, which police
said was caused by heavy rain.


"We are still searching in the hope of finding survivors -- we do
have hope left," said local police chief Colonel Sonthichai
Awatanakulthep.


More than 100 people were swimming in the waters when the
torrents struck Sairung and Prai Sawan waterfalls, which are
about five kilometres apart and whose names translate as
'rainbow' and 'heavenly jungle'.


They are popular tourist spots surrounded by picturesque forest,
and were particularly crowded because of the five-day Songkran
holiday weekend celebrating Buddhist New Year, when Thais
traditionally head home or into the countryside for some of the
hottest days of the year.


Trang police chief Major General Kajorn Siriwan said about 10
holidaymakers were still missing.


"We rescued more than 100 tourists yesterday (Saturday) so the
number left is not likely to be high," said Kajorn.


"Some 200 people including police, provincial officials and
rescue workers are trying to find about 10 missing people," he
added.


Sinchai Rongdej, hospital director at Yantakhao district where
the waterfalls are located, said earlier that the majority of the
victims were Thai.


The dead included 17 women, three men, 11 boys and six girls, and
Sinchai said they were killed when the powerful water knocked
them over.


"More than 90 percent of the dead were hit by rocks after they
fell in the force of the flash flood," he added. "Almost all of
them had wounds on their heads and their faces."


About 29 people were injured in the flood, the health ministry
said, with all since being discharged from hospital.


Some distraught relatives gathered at Yantakhao Hospital where
authorities posted lists of the dead, while others preferred to
wait in hope at the scene of the tragedy.

