

A buffer zone dividing the west African country of Ivory Coast is
due to be pulled down beginnng Monday to end years of a political
and military division of the one-time oasis of peace and
stability in the troubled region.


Following is a chronology of key events since a failed coup in
2002 that divided the former regional powerhouse between the
mostly-Muslim rebel north and the government-run Christian and
animist south.


2002


Sept 19 : Renegade soldiers try to oust President Laurent Gbagbo.
Rebels take over the north but the government retains control of
the south.


Sept 30 : First direct negotiations between government and
rebels.


2003


Jan 24 : Government and rebels sign peace accords in the town of
Marcoussis, south of Paris, France. Under the peace deal, rebels
and the political opposition form a transition government and the
president cedes some power to a prime minister of national
reconciliation. Seydou Diarra, a product of the civil society, is
nominated prime minister.


Jan 26 : Violent pro-Gbagbo, anti-French demonstrations begin in
Abidjan.


July 4 : Army and rebels formally announce end of war.


Sept 23 : Rebels abandon unity government to protest obstacles
barring the peace process.


2004


Jan 6 : Rebels return to government.


April 4 : UN peacekeepers start to deploy.


Oct 6 : Nine French soldiers are killed during a raid by
government troops on Bouake.


Oct 7 : African Union (AU) asks South African President Thabo
Mbeki to mediate.


Nov 10 : Thousands of French and foreign nationals leave Abidjan,
the first of more than 8,000 to flee after anti-French protests.


Nov 15 : UN bans arms sales to Ivory Coast.


2005


Jan 5 : Gbagbo hints for the first time a possible elections
delay, but vows to remain head of state to avoid a political
void.


Sept 10 : UN Secretary General Kofi Annan announces that the Oct
30 presidential elections will have to be delayed.


Oct 21 : The UN Security Council adopts a resolution maintaining
Gbagbo in power.


Dec 4 : Banker Charles Konan Banny is appointed prime minister


Dec 29 : Formation of a new national unity government.


2006


Jan 15-19 : Violent anti-UN protests led by pro-Gbagbo militant
youths.


Feb 28 : First meeting on Ivorian soil of the main political
players -- Gbagbo, rebel chief Guillaume Soro, and opposition
leaders Alassane Ouattara and Henri Konan Bedie.


Sept 20 : All political actors, except Gbagbo, agree along with
the UN, to postpone indefinitely elections scheduled for the end
of October due to serious blockages and ask African leaders to
map out a new peace calendar.


Nov 1 : UN Security Council adopts a resolution maintaining
Gbagbo in office but shifting most of his powers to Konan Banny.


2007


Jan 10:  UN extends its mandate until June 30, 2007.


Feb 5 :  First direct talks between government and rebel envoys
in Burkina Faso.


March 4 : Gbagbo and Soro sign an agreement to end the crisis.


March 29 : Gbagbo appoints Soro as Prime Minister.


April 4 : Konan Banny hands over power to successor Soro.


April 7 : New transitional government named.


April 11 : Government loyalist and rebel forces sign agreement
with the UN and French army for the clearing the buffer zone
starting April 16.

