

The America's Cup has had more drama, intrigue and scandal in its
156-year history than Pirates of the Caribbean I, 2 and the soon
to be released 3 put together.


The tone was set as early as 1895 when the Earl of Dunraven's
challenger Valkyrie III was disqualified after winning the second
race of that year's series.


The Earl's protests were so strident he was hit with the ultimate
sanction - he was thrown out of the New York Yacht Club
triggering a 34-year boycott of the competition by England.


The English returned in 1934 only for another technical decision
to go against them, prompting one observer to note at the time:
"Britannia rules the waves, but America waives the rules."


Jump forward to 1988 when Dennis Connor took on New Zealand with
a giant catamaran, resulting in numerous trips to court as the
Kiwis called foul.


Connor was eventually allowed to compete with the revolutionary
craft but after dominating over KZ1 the New Zealanders sued and
secured the trophy back in court.


However 'Mr America's Cup' had the last word as he won it back on
appeal.


This rumpus led to rules being set in place to standardise boats
which must now comply to the America's Cup Class specification.


Five years earlier an almighty row erupted between US defender
and Australia II over her unorthodox keel.


Such were the lengths to get a look at the keel which had been
kept under wraps before the race skin-divers were used in vain to
try and catch a glimpse of it.


The NYYC was accused of espionage by the Aussies with the
Americans hitting back accusing the Australians of using an
illegal design.


Australia II was eventually allowed to race, taking the series
4-3 and in the process ending America's 136-year domination of
the event.


Bad blood had flowed between the two countries baack in 1967 when
their two boats collided in a race Australia went on to win.


Disqualification followed prompting one Australian MP to call for
the Australian ambassador to be recalled from the United States.


And as recently as 2003 American challenger OneWorld was in the
dock and penalised for holding design secrets belonging to the
opposition teams Prada and Team New Zealand.


Disappointingly for devotees of the underhand but happily for the
organisers the 2007 edition has been found badly-wanting in this
department - up to now at least.

