

Adam Gilchrist believes that wicketkeeper/batsmen, who can save
runs and score them in equal, devastating measure, could be the
key to World Cup glory.


The Australian is bidding to become one of the few players to win
three World Cups with his team now just four games away from
adding the 2007 title to the 1999 and 2003 crowns they also
secured.


The 35-year-old Gilchrist will have the chance here on Monday to
compare his glove and bat skills with those of Sri Lanka's Kumar
Sangakkara, one of his contemporaries whom he rates extremely
highly.


"At the World Cup, the wicketkeeping has been of the highest
quality," said Gilchrist.


"We have seen a lot of the keepers having to stand up to the
medium pacers and they have done it to an exceptionally high
level - Brendon McCullum, Paul Nixon and Kumar Sangakkara, he has
been outstanding.


"He made 69 against New Zealand, so he's back in form with the
blade. We all look at each other and try to improve and maintain
our level."


Despite his success with the bat as an opener, Gilchrist, who has
8,857 runs to his name in one-day internationals, insists that he
has to pay attention to all facets of his game to keep his place
in the team.


"If you ask all the wicketkeepers, they would say that they like
to think they are picked on their glovework," Gilchrist told Sky
Sports.


"I never say well I just got a hundred, job well done. I have to
go out there and train hard, catch the ball to stay as sharp as
possible.


"Form with the bat can fluctuate as can form with the gloves. The
guys are here as their number one keepers but they have developed
a side of their game, which is batting, and that has to be at an
acceptable level."


Gilchrist made his one-day debut in 1996 on a tour of Pakistan
and has since played 264 matches. His Test debut came in 1999.


Long-standing teammates like Shane Warne, Justin Langer and
Damien Martyn quit the international scene recently. Glenn
McGrath has also retired from Test cricket but is finishing his
career at the World Cup.


Gilchrist is adamant, however, that retirement is not on his
agenda at the moment.


"There are three or four of us who have the chance to win three
World Cups and it would be lovely to close that one out," he
said.


"It's a case of year by year for me. We had a lot of big
retirements this summer and I'm getting towards that part of my
career.


"There's no doubt that it's getting closer but there's still a
bit more to achieve."


Once the World Cup is finished, John Buchanan will leave as coach
to be replaced by Tim Nielsen whose first job will be to convince
the critics that there is life after the likes of Warne and
McGrath.


"Abou 1200 runs and 1200 wickets walked out of the door at the
MCG a few months ago," said Gilchrist.


"There's no quick remedy. We have bee aware of it for a few
years. But we have the likes of (leg spinner) Stuart MacGill who
would have played 50 Tests in any other country.


"There's Brett Lee, Shaun Tait and Stuart Clark. We feel as if we
have the bases covered but it's no secret that there's not going
to be another Shane Warne or a Glenn McGrath."

