

Rafa Beintez insisted his team will not be distracted by the
prospect of their Champions League semi-final with Chelsea
despite evidence to the contrary during a lacklustre 0-0 draw at
Manchester City.


The two teams ground out a goalless stalemate on Saturday that
looked very much like a meaningless end of season encounter.


Yet, Liverpool are still in a contest with Arsenal to finish in
third place in the Premiership and City, finally clear of
relegation concerns after their recent mini-revival, were looking
to end a depressing goalless sequence at the City of Manchester
Stadium that has now extended to nine hours and 20 minutes in the
Premiership.


However, Benitez insisted that his own players were not guilty of
having an eye on the imminent European tie.


"I'm disappointed because we had very clear chances in the first
half. For the first 45 minutes we had plenty of possession and,
if we had taken those chances, it would have been very
different," he said.


"But I don't think the players had an eye on the semi-final. If
we had started the game the way we finished it then, yes, maybe
you could say they were thinking about the semi-final of the
Champions League.


"But we started the game really well, tried to move forward, kept
the ball and had chances. So, for me, that's not the case.


"In the first half, when we were moving the ball, we had options
but you need to score to change the game. Then, in the second
half, we were under pressure from throw-ins, free-kicks and
corners but they didn't have clear chances.


"I know people will talk about the Champions League but we needed
to win the points today. We need to get a top four place as soon
as possible and this is one more point and one less game to go.
Once we are in the top four for sure, then we will be thinking
about the Champions League."


City's barren run at home is a depressing statistic that says
much about their lack of ability to break down stubborn
opposition and they rarely threatened to improve against
Liverpool.


American winger DaMarcus Beasley struck the cross-bar for the
hosts after displaying what was a rare piece of skill with his
intricate footwork carving a 74th minute opening, and Xabi Alonso
almost managed to chip Andreas Isaksson with an effort from five
yards inside the Liverpool half.


City manager Stuart Pearce, his own job security apparently
secure after the recent climb up the table, left the game on the
final whistle, dashing to catch a plane to scout potential close-
season targets in a game in Europe on Sunday.


But his assistant Steve Wigley echoed Benitez in claiming there
had been no lack of effort on the part of his players.


"We've been on a good run of late, that's five games unbeaten and
four clean sheets and obviously we are looking to keep the
momentum going right until the end of the season," he said.


"We were playing Liverpool, European champions 18 months ago and
maybe European champions again this season, so our players had to
concentrate and work hard and that's what they did," said Wigley.


"They've been very focused for the last five games.


"There's a relief in respect of us having 41 points but the
season doesn't end here. There are still five games to go and
we'd like to get as many points as possible.


"In any given season, players are playing for their futures at
this time, striving to get an improved contract or to just stay
at a club like this, and our players are no different."

