

Russian boxing giant Nikolay Valuev admitted he was well-beaten
as he lost his WBA heavyweight crown on Saturday night to new
champion Ruslan Chagaev.


In his fourth defence since beating American John Ruiz in
December 2005, the Russian Giant - formerly known as the Beast
From the East - was convincingly beaten over 12 rounds in
Stuttgart by the powerful challenger.


This was the 33-year-old mammoth's first defeat after 46 wins and
one no result which brought him within three of equalling legend
Rocky Marciano's record 49 straight victories.


The scoring of 114-114, 115-113 and 117-111 by the three judges,
although inconsistent, was a fair result as the new champ chalked
up his 23rd professional win, but the beaten Valuev was gracious
in defeat.


"He deserved his victory, he picked a good strategy during the
fight and he used it effectively," he said.


"There is no question that he is a worthy champion, but I will
keep training and hope to make a come-back."


An emotional Chagaev launched into a list of people he wished to
thank for helping him become champion, before expressing his
delight.


"I am really pleased, it's been a long time coming and it was a
hard fight, it hasn't sunk in yet."


This was a real David-Goliath contest. With St Petersburg's
Valuev weighing a massive 90 pounds heavier, the powerful
challenger landed several telling punches and never allowed the
champion to settle.


Despite towering over the southpaw Chagaev, the seven-foot tall
Valuev, with an 11 inch height advantage and six stones heavier,
landed few telling punches and tired considerably in the later
rounds.


To help prepare him for the task ahead, Chagaev, 28, had made his
trainer stand on a box in sparring to give him an indication of
the height difference and the home work paid off, especially in
the early stages.


The challenger made a solid start and caught the champ with a few
good shots in the first round, but struggled to get beyond
Valuev's phenomenal reach until the third round when he landed
several heavy blows to his opponent's face.


Valuev looked comfortable in the first three rounds, but a right-
hook caught him in the fourth, rocked him backwards and he was
caught again in the fifth.


His incredible reach started telling on the challenger and he
used his huge left paw to simply swat at Chagaev, who played a
waiting game for the guard to drop before troubling the giant in
the seventh with two clean blows.


Both fighters were showing signs of tiring by the eighth round,
but Valuev landed a huge blow to the body as Chagaev responded
with another good punch to the head.


By the final round, the Russian goliath had tired to barely a
shuffle and Chagaev was estactic at the final bell, justifiably
confident of the win.

