

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency is ready to
help Jordan acquire nuclear energy, IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei
said on Sunday after talks with King Abdullah II.


"The IAEA is ready to help Jordan take advantage of nuclear
energy for peaceful use," ElBaradei said, according to a palace
statement.


"We will send an IAEA team next week to follow up on the project
that Jordan will launch to use nuclear energy for peaceful
purposes," ElBaradei said without elaborating.


Officials had told AFP that Jordan wanted a nuclear plant by 2015
to generate electricity, as well as to use nuclear technology in
education and to desalinate water for the largely desert kingdom.


Jordan imports 95 percent of its energy needs and is one of the
10 most water- impoverished countries in the world, with its
annual water deficit exceeding 500 million cubic metres,
according to official estimates.


Parliament will hold an extraordinary session on Wednesday to
vote on draft laws submitted by the government, including one on
the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, according to
deputies.


King Abdullah II thanked ElBaradei for the IAEA's support and
said "Jordan will be an example of the peaceful usage of nuclear
energy" in line with international rules, the palace said.


"The IAEA's support for Jordan, including technical support and
developing (human) capabilities, will guarantee the success of
its nuclear programme," the king said.


In an interview with AFP last week the Jordanian monarch said
Amman wanted "alternative energy sources that will help us
alleviate the increasing burdens of importing energy amid rising
fuel prices."


"We in Jordan feel, as do other countries, the need to secure the
transfer and establishment of nuclear energy technology as an
alternative to importing oil for generating electricity and water
desalination," he said.


"This will help us fulfill our energy needs," the king said,
adding that he would discuss the issue with ElBaradei.


Maher Hijjazin, director of Jordan's Natural Resources Authority,
told AFP that Jordan has "tens of thousands of tonnes" of uranium
reserves, a fraction of which could be used to power nuclear
plants.


ElBaradei began a three-day visit to Jordan on Saturday, the
final leg of a tour that has already taken him to Saudi Arabia
and Oman.

