

Moroccan security forces on Sunday kept up the hunt for suicide
bombers in Casablanca a day after two brothers blew themselves up
near the US consulate.


Five suicide bombers have killed themselves in the Moroccan port
city in five days and security was tight as Casablanca remained
on edge, fearful of new strikes even though police said they had
arrested the ringleaders behind earlier attacks.


Events in Morocco alongside coordinated suicide bomb attacks in
Algiers on Wednesday, which left 33 dead and were claimed by an
Al-Qaeda group, have fuelled fears of increased militant strikes
across North Africa.


Mohamed Maha set off explosives 40 meters (150 feet) from the
heavily guarded entrance to the US consular building in
Casablanca on Saturday.


After the explosion his younger brother, Omar, ran off along the
Boulevard Moulay Youssef towards the American Language Centre, a
private school, where he blew himself up, witnesses said.


There were no other fatalities but one woman was said to have
been injured in the blasts.


Police arrested six people in the area, including one man who was
found with an empty explosives belt, a police source said.


The two brothers lived with their father and step-mother in a two
room apartment in the Derb Sultan district, near where three
suicide bombers killed themselves on Tuesday to avoid arrest by
the police. A fourth suspect was shot dead by police.


Mohamed, 32, printed t-shirts for a clothing company and his
brother was a street vendor, according to neighbours who said
they were no signs of militant activity by the pair.


Mohamed Maha "was dressed in jeans and had a black pullover and
old sandals and he looked poor and miserable. He blew himself up
three meters from one of the police vans," said eyewitness
Mohammad, a security guard at a nearby bank.


"Some of his entrails ended up on the bank's terrace," he added.


Police announced they had arrested the head of the group
responsible for suicide explosions at a Casblanca Internet cafe
on March 11 and on Tuesday.


The unnamed man and his deputy were arrested in a district on the
outskirts of Casablanca, on Thursday during raids that followed
Tuesday's blasts.


Police said the men led them to an apartment which contained
equipment possibly used for attacks.


"In their room, in which all the windows had been covered, we
found communications equipment, documents and two bags," a police
official told AFP.


Police said they had been able to identify the rest of the group
and were actively looking for them.


One of the trio who killed themselves on Tuesday was the brother
of a man who died in a March 11 explosion at the Casablanca
Internet cafe that sparked the police hunt.


Officials said all the men involved in the March 11 and this
week's incidents grew up in the Sidi Moumen area.


A police official said Saturday's incident was "a desperate act
in response to the successful crackdown in recent weeks by the
police and security services to dismantle terrorist cells".


Terrorism analysts in France said the group behind the spate of
bombings did not appear well organised.


Louis Caprioli, a former head of the French intelligence agency,
the DST, said that while the March 11 blast when one militant
accidentally blew himself up showed "an important terrorist
network" was being assembled, the lack of preparation in this
week's attacks meant the group "was not serious".


Saturday's blasts follow suicide bomb attacks in the capital of
neighbouring Algeria including one on the prime minister's
office.


The attacks were claimed by a group calling itself Al-Qaeda's
North Africa branch.


On Saturday, the US embassy in Algiers issued a warning that
militants may be planning more attacks in the capital.

