

The United Auto Workers union will play a pivotal role in the
potential sale of DaimlerChrysler's struggling US unit and could
wind up blocking a deal not to its liking, analysts said.


"I know it's not the prevailing wisdom on Wall Street," said
Harley Shaiken, a labor analyst from the University of California
Berkeley, "but the union has a big role to play. They have a
strategic position."


Union (UAW) officials privately confirmed that potential buyers
have approached it to open discussions about possible sale terms
and what it expects in any deal.


DaimlerChrysler officials admitted the union has a lot of
leverage because it can shape the talks on so-called legacy
costs.


The Chrysler Group's pension fund is fully funded but its
unfunded liability for retiree health care now tops 18 billion
dollars, according to the company's financial statements.


The legacy costs are a huge barrier to any sale which must be
resolved for a deal to move ahead, one DaimlerChrysler executive
told AFP.


UAW President Ron Gettelfinger has said nothing publicly about
the discussions but he acknowledged in a recent interview that he
expected DaimlerChrysler to move ahead with its effort to sell
the Chrysler Group.


Buzz Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers union
representing Chrysler workers, said he met recently with
Gettelfinger to plot a response to a possible buyout of Chrysler.


They oppose a sale to any buyer unfamiliar with the auto industry
or likely to institute mass layoffs, he said.


Billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, the Canadian auto parts supplier
Magna and two investment firms, Cerberus, and Blackstone and
Centerbridge, have expressed interest in buying the Chrysler
group.


DaimlerChrysler officials confirmed that key executives met in
New York with potential buyers on Wednesday.


The process of reviewing the various offers, which include strict
criteria outlined by CEO Dieter Zetsche, is still unfolding, said
DaimlerChrysler spokeswoman Shawn Morgan, who declined further
comment.


Hargrove said selling to an investor like Kerkorian would provoke
a reaction from his union.


"He's made a lot of money at the expense of throwing a lot of
people out of work. It's nothing personal," Hargrove told AFP.


"It's just that anybody in his world is out to make a lot of
money at the expense of the people I represent. The same with
these other (buyout) firms. These folks are just in it to come
and cut a lot of jobs and try and make money at our expense."


The CAW represents about 11,000 Chrysler workers in Canada and
its current labor contract won't expire until September 2008.


UAW officials around Detroit also said privately they would fight
any buyer they sense wants to break up the company into pieces.


"I know I would fight and I would hope Gettelfinger would too,"
one official told AFP.


While the UAW has been badly hurt by the downturn in the
industry, it still has the power to shape events, said Kate
Bronfenbrenner, director of Labor Education Research at Cornell
University.


"They are thinking more strategically," she said.


Chrysler management and the union have made a lot of progress
jointly in improving Chrysler's productivity which could be lost
if the labor situation gets tense, said Greg Gardener of Harbour
Consulting.


"There are some promising developments at Chrysler between
management and union that could get neutralized," he said.


Nine years down the line, what was originally flagged as a "dream
wedding" of Daimler and Chrysler now appears to be on the rocks.


Despite a series of restructuring plans, Chrysler posted an
operating loss of 1.12 billion euros (1.5 billion dollars) last
year as consumers shied away from the fuel-hungry trucks and
sports utility vehicles that had dominated its offerings.


Analysts estimate Chrysler's value at between five and seven
billion dollars, compared with its purchase price of more than 35
billion dollars.

