

Millions in India and Pakistan may have switched channels after
their teams' World Cup flop, but live television coverage has
boosted the sport in remote Bhutan.


The tiny Himalayan kingdom of 2.5 million learned how to put bat
to ball in the last decade when TV signals from Indian channels
beamed cricket into capital Thimpu's drawing rooms.


Archery, once a means of resisting foreign invaders, still
remains the national sport, but cricket has slowly, but surely,
made inroads into the hearts and minds of the Bhutanese.


The kingdom not only has a Bhutan Cricket Council Board (BCCB),
headed by foreign minister Lyonpo Khandu Wangchuk, but it was
also good enough to reach the final of the Asian under-15
Challenge in Thailand last year.


The Bhutanese upset the fancied hosts in the semi-finals before
going down to Oman in the final of the tournament contested by
the emerging cricket nations of the region.


Former Indian all-rounder Roger Binny, who was given the
responsibility to develop cricket in Bhutan by the Asian Cricket
Council (ACC), says he is amazed at the progress the nation has
made.


"Cricket caught on in Bhutan because television showed matches
played in India and around the world," said Binny, a member of
India's World Cup winning team of 1983.


"It is still a minority sport in Bhutan, but the ones who do play
cricket, do so with the right spirit and considerable enthusiasm.


"They are very keen to learn the game. The coaches there are
taking their job very seriously. I see a marked improvement
whenever I visit Bhutan."


Binny was pleasantly surprised when thousands of school children
turned up to hear him talk of the game during a visit to the
remote Gelephu district last year.


"The vast audience left me stunned," he said. "The headmasters at
the school I went to were as enthusiastic about the game as many
in India."


Bhutan still does not have a big enough ground to hold
international matches, but the playing fields in Thimpu and
elsewhere are fit for net sessions and fielding practice.


The serene, calm nature of the Bhutanese also reflects in their
cricket. Sledging, verbal warfare or even team huddles before the
game are abhored.


Instead, batsmen seek the blessings of cricketing gods by bowing
their heads before they go out on the field.


"We do not pray for victory," says national captain Damber Singh
Gurung. "We pray for each other to give our best and to emerge
better players and better human beings from the competition."


The famous Dechephu Lhakhang temple in Thimpu is the spiritual
home of Bhutanese cricketers and is visited by players before
every tournament.


Not surprisingly, Bhutan won the 'spirit of cricket' award at the
under-15 tournament in Thailand for "overall discipline and
spirit shown on and off the field," according to the citation.

