

US President George W. Bush is preparing for a new week of tough
political battles with his Democratic opponents amid an
atmosphere of mutual hostility and suspicion.


On Tuesday, Democrats will have a politically charged meeting
with key Bush ally Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to hear his
explanation about the firings of eight federal prosecutors, who
they suspect fell victim to a White House-managed purge.


Bush will then receive members of Congress Wednesday to tell them
he has no intention of negotiating any deadline for a troop
pullout from Iraq as demanded by Democratic lawmakers.


With less than two years left in his term, the beleaguered
president has had to contend with a steady stream of bad news and
political scandals, particularly now that the Democrats control
Congress and appear determined to have their say in domestic and
foreign policy.


For the White House, this past week ended with another setback as
World Bank President Paul Wolfowitz, one of the architects of the
Bush doctrine that paved the way to the 2003 invasion of Iraq,
faced calls for his resignation over his handling of a pay raise
for his girlfriend.


Another new scandal broke out after revelations that a
considerable number of White House emails related to the sacking
of the federal prosecutors had somehow disappeared. The emails
under the law should have been archived, and officials said they
were working to retrieve them.


And, as Bush pursued a war strategy aimed at restoring stability
in violence- torn Iraq and security to the Iraqi capital, a bomb
ripped through the parliament building located in the most
protected sector of Baghdad.


While his Iraq policy has triggered an open conflict with the
Democrats, Bush has found in the bombing more proof of extremism
at work in Iraq and a new justification for his strategy.


The White House has warned that when the president receives
members of Congress Wednesday, he will not bargain or try to
forge a compromise on funding the war.


Both chambers of Congress have adopted measures funding the war,
but imposed deadlines limiting the US combat mission in Iraq to
2008.


Bush has insisted that he will veto any bill with timetables.


But for the first time in weeks, Bush did not explicitly renew
his veto threat in his Saturday radio address, though the overall
tone was hardly conciliatory.


Meanwhile, Bush saw one of his major arguments used to bludgeon
Democrats over war funding melt away.


He has repeatedly said that because of lack of funds, troop
deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan risked being extended.


But last week, the Pentagon announced the deployments would be
extended from 12 to 15 months, regardless of whether the war
budget was adopted or not.


Democrats hesitated before accepting Bush's invitation to the
White House.


They said they will come to listen to his arguments and to insist
that he heed the concerns of a majority of Americans who believe
the current course in Iraq has failed and must be changed.


On Tuesday, a Senate committee will ask the attorney general
tough questions about the role the White House may have played in
the firings of eight US attorneys that critics say were driven by
political considerations.


Senators were expected to concentrate on the possible role played
in the firings by Karl Rove, Bush's chief political adviser.


The controversy over the firing of prosecutors has indirectly led
to the disclosure about the loss of White House e-mails.


Democrats are now asking if some White House officials, beginning
with Rove, may have destroyed these documents in order to prevent
them from falling in the hands of Congress.

