

Benedict XVI this week celebrates two years since his election as
pope -- as well as his 80th birthday -- after putting moral
issues and the unity of the Roman Catholic Church at the top of
his papal agenda.


His style has been in marked contrast to that of his charismatic
predecessor John Paul II, whose long pontificate was far more
political as well as more activist, according to Benedict's
critics.


The former Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, who turns 80 on Monday, was
elected to succeed John Paul II two years ago Thursday. He is to
celebrate both milestones at a mass Sunday in St Peter's Square.


Pilgrims have been called to attend the event to "thank God for
the gift he has given us in our Pope Benedict XVI."


The conservative Benedict, though less warm and spontaneous than
his predecessor, has drawn similar but decreasing crowds so far
in his young papacy, according to Vatican figures.


The Italian press has stressed the continuity of outlook, if not
of action, between the two popes, while some prelates, speaking
on condition of anonymity, say they are becoming impatient with
Benedict's comparative lethargy.


The respected theologian has shaped his public dialogue
increasingly around spiritual and moral questions, rarely
venturing into diplomatic territory.


In his traditional Easter message "to the city and the world,"
Benedict decried natural disasters and "human tragedies," while
placing hope for the future in faith in a God "who loves us to
the extent of taking upon himself our wounds and our pain,
especially innocent suffering."


Three weeks ago, as EU leaders met in Berlin to mark the European
Union's 50th anniversary, Benedict warned that Europe's revival
could be threatened if it forgets its Christian roots and
embraces a "peculiar form of apostasy."


The German-born pope, who has gained a reputation as a rigid
guardian of the faith, said Christian values "that represent the
soul of the continent must remain" part of Europe.


A Vatican diplomat said the speech, particularly the use of the
word "apostasy," was disturbing, "building a pessimistic view of
the world."


As head of the Vatican's doctrinal enforcement body under John
Paul II, then cardinal Ratzinger was the force behind many of the
Polish-born pope's initiatives on ethical issues.


As pope, Benedict has spoken out ever more frequently on
abortion, the family, homosexuality, the status of the embryo and
euthanasia, drawing battle lines between the Church and civil
societies, at least in Europe and other developed regions.


Vatican correspondent Sandro Magister, citing a recent poll, says
Benedict has made some inroads in predominantly Catholic Italy
about rights for gay couples. "Benedict XVI uses Italy as the
yeast for the rest of the Church," he said.


With an academic background in European philosophy, Benedict has
shown little interest in other continents, unlike John Paul II,
the widest-travelled pope in the history of the Roman Catholic
Church with a keen eye on geopolitics.


Benedict is planning a trip to Brazil next month, his first to
the Americas, to meet with Latin American and Caribbean bishops.
His only other trip outside Europe so far has been to Turkey, the
crossroads between Europe and Asia.


Another central issue for Benedict is the spiritual unity of the
Church around its pope. He is expected to issue a letter soon to
Chinese Catholics, who are divided between a state-sanctioned
"patriotic" Church and a clandestine Church that complains of
persecution by the authorities.


He will also seek to bring "Lefebvrists" back into the fold with
a decree spelling out conditions for celebrating the Latin mass
introduced at the Council of Trent in the 16th century.


John Paul II ex-communicated the late bishop Marcel Lefebvre
after he began ordaining priests and consecrating bishops as part
of his campaign to revive the so-called Tridentine mass.


Benedict, who was born in the Bavarian town of Marktl am Inn on
April 16, 1927, has acknowledged that he was enrolled into the
Hitler Youth during World War II, but much against his will. He
has been widely praised by Jewish organisations for his stand
against anti-Semitism.


He was ordained priest in 1951, spent much of his early career as
a theology professor and became archbishop of Munich in March
1977, later moving to the Vatican.


His housekeeper, Ingrid Stampa, has described him as a modest man
of simple tastes. He rarely drinks wine as it gives him a
headache, likes Italian cuisine but prefers German food, such as
dumplings and apfelstrudel (apple pie).


He has shown an unexpected fondness for high fashion, wearing
Prada shoes and Gucci sunglasses, and he has taken to wearing
traditional hats not worn by popes for decades.


He is said to speak 10 languages, although the Italian press has
commented on his German accent, and is an accomplished pianist.


Benedict's brother Georg, also a priest but three years his
elder, has said that "health-wise he is not very robust. His
heart is not very good." He has continued to express such worries
since his election.

