

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Sunday that Israel was ready
to hold talks with Arab nations on their recently revived plan
for comprehensive Middle East peace.


"We are ready to hold talks with any combination of Arab states
on their ideas and I would be glad to hear their ideas on the
Saudi initiative," Olmert said at the start of the weekly cabinet
meeting in Jerusalem.


"I'll be glad to hear their ideas and for them to listen to
ours," he said. "I hope there will be a chance for such
meetings."


He was referring to a five-year-old peace plan that the Arab
League revived during its summit last month.


The blueprint offers Israel peace and normal ties with Arab
countries in exchange for withdrawing from Arab land occupied
during the 1967 Six Day War, allowing the creation of a
Palestinian state and the return of refugees.


Israel, which initially rejected the plan when it was unveiled in
2002, has recently said it could provide a basis for talks
provided there are amendments to the refugee issue -- something
the Arab countries have refused to do.


The statement came days before Wednesday's planned meeting in
Cairo between 12 Arab foreign ministers to discuss the Saudi-
drafted initiative.


The Israeli premier spoke ahead of a meeting with Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas later in the day in Jerusalem, the first
of what are due to be regular meetings between the two leaders
aimed at jumpstarting the dormant peace process.


Olmert said the talks would not focus on core issues, but "the
possibility to promote a solution to the Israeli Palestinian
conflict by creating a Palestinian state."


"We will not touch on core issues but we will discuss substantial
issues such as legislative administration and security bodies in
the Palestinian Authority," he said.


Discussions will also touch on drawn-out talks over a possible
Palestinian prisoner release in return for an Israeli soldier
seized by Gaza militants last June.


"We will discuss a series of topics including the PA's fight
against terror and the commitment the chairman of the PA gave me
to immediately release Corporal Gilad Shalit," Olmert said. "This
is a topic which will not be removed from our agenda."


Olmert and Abbas agreed to meet every two weeks during last
month's visit by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.

