

Finance minister Gordon Brown is not a certainty to be Britain's
next prime minister, a former senior minister said Sunday,
raising the prospect there will be a fight for the country's top
job.


Former interior minister Charles Clarke wrote in the Mail on
Sunday that it was by no means definite that Brown -- Tony
Blair's chancellor of the exchequer for the last 10 years --
would be elected unopposed as Labour Party leader.


Blair is expected to announce his resignation after local
elections in Scotland, Wales and England on May 3, triggering a
seven-week party leadership campaign.


"A week is famously a long time in politics. But as in the past,
the week between Tony Blair's resignation and the close of
nominations for the leadership will be the longest of all," wrote
Clarke.


"Time and again, this short period has turned expectations upside
down," he added.


"Despite the punditry and puffs of white and black smoke, the
outlook at the end of that week when nominations close will be
very different from initial expectations."


Two left-wing candidates, Michael Meacher and John McDonnell,
have said they want to stand against Brown, but each has to
secure the support of 44 Labour parliamentary colleagues to have
their name put on the ballot.


"There is enough support for two, three or even four candidates,"
said Clarke.


Speculation has been rife that other candidates will throw their
hat into the ring.


Arch "Blairites" Clarke and former health secretary Alan Milburn
have both been mentioned as possible contenders, as has Blair's
faithful home secretary John Reid.


Youthful environment secretary David Miliband is also facing
mounting pressure to give Brown a run for his money.


Miliband, well-regarded for his sharp political brain, is thought
by some in the party to be the best person to fight Conservative
Party leader David Cameron, who is currently riding on the crest
of popular appeal.


But Miliband has ruled himself out, which has been widely
interpreted as a move to avoid the rifts along Blair-Brown lines
that have dogged the party since 1994.


Some Labour members are said to be concerned about whether Brown
will have the party's full support if he is elected unopposed and
there are question marks about whether the serious-minded Scot
can re-energise Labour's fortunes.


Britain's former top civil servant last month accused him of
"Stalinist ruthlessness" in his dealings with colleagues, while
Clarke last year called Brown a "control freak" who could not
manage people in a "collegiate" way.


Whoever wins the leadership contest automatically becomes prime
minister as head of the largest party in parliament, without a
general election having to be called.

