

A controversial sculpture that pitted live caged animals against
each other will close Sunday, after the Chinese-French artist was
accused of cruelty.


Internationally-known artist Huang Yong Ping, a Chinese who now
lives in Paris, announced the animals in a enclosure will be
removed "to maintain the integrity of the artwork."


The British Columbia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (SPCA) had ordered Huang and the Vancouver Art Gallery to
drastically modify the exhibit.


By provincial law, the agency can investigate and lay charges of
animal cruelty.


Since opening a week ago, the "Theatre of the World" sculpture
housed lizards, scorpions, tarantulas and other animals together
in a cage.


Kathleen Bartels, director of the Vancouver Art Gallery, said the
installation "encouraged people to think seriously about the
dynamics of power in today's society."


But a fierce fight over animal rights and artistic freedom
immediately broke out in this western Canadian metropolis, where
the VAG is the premier public gallery.


"We were called in on an animal cruelty complaint," said SPCA
spokesperson Lorie Chortyk. "People were concerned about
different species coexisting in that habitat. ... They are
species from different parts of the world that would not normally
be with each other."


The cage is an oval-shaped plywood table with a wire-mesh cover
in the shape of a turtle.


When this reporter visited, chirping crickets swarmed over the
cage floor, a lizard sat motionless near the centre while
scorpions and large black hairy tarantulas pressed near the outer
edges.


A guard hovered nearby, telling people not to touch the cage as
groups of school children pressed close and shrieked at the sight
of the creatures.


Carol Gigliotti, a professor at the Emily Carr Institute of Art
and Design in Vancouver with a specialty in animal ethics, said
the display conveyed the element of chance, the reality the
animals could kill each other, the fact that "death is imminent
and people have to accept this."


Gigliotti said she realized that Huang was trying to convey an
abstract idea, "but the ethical choice would be to take out the
animals."


The exhibit included a disclaimer that all animals were bred in
captivity and would be sent to good homes after the show closed.


"In my mind that doesn't make it right," said Gigliotti. "That's
like saying, this woman was born into slavery so it's ok, she's
used to it.'"


Gigliotti slammed the gallery for first displaying the animals
"without water, without any place to hide, with one light source
so it was very cold, they need a lot more heat."


After the SPCA's first visit the gallery provided water and
hiding places, said Chortyk. Later, a veterinarian examined the
animals and the SPCA ordered removal of the tarantulas and
scorpions.


Instead, said Huang in the release, "we must remove all the
animals in Theater of the World but leave behind the emptied
physical structure, and to do so as a sign of protest."


The gallery said the controversy would be used "to encourage
discussions about freedom of expression, power and censorship."


The controversial live-animal display is part of "House of
Oracles: A Huang Yong Ping Retrospective," which was earlier
shown in Minneapolis and the North Adams, Massachusetts with no
changes.


But in France in 1994 Theatre of the World was prevented from
showing at the Centre George Pompidou in Paris because of animal
cruelty complaints, which the exhibit catalogue in Vancouver
called "new forms of censorship, which may be characterized as
liberal humanist and (if veiled) racist-culturalist."


Huang's press release said critics "completely ignored the
concept and ideology behind this particular art work, citing
instead the doctrines of so-called "animal rights" that violently
interfere with the rights of an art work to be freely exhibited
in an art museum."

