

At war with his staff and propped up by an unpopular US
administration, scandal- hit World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz
faces a crisis of credibility just under two years into his
stormy tenure.


For many observers, the moral authority of the former US deputy
defense secretary is in shreds at a time when the 185-member
organization risks irrelevancy six decades after it was created
to combat poverty.


"If he stays, he's so enfeebled that he can't execute the job,"
argued Manish Bapna, director of the Bank Information Center, an
independent group which tracks World Bank affairs.


"For those who are committed to the institution playing an
important role in alleviating global poverty, he should do the
right thing and resign," he told AFP.


The scandal engulfing Wolfowitz about hefty pay hikes that he
ordered for his Libyan-born girlfriend, Shaha Riza, overshadowed
weekend meetings of the bank and its partner, the International
Monetary Fund.


The controversy has erupted at the worst time for Wolfowitz when
he is battling to overcome resistance to his flagship campaign
against corruption in the World Bank's 24-billion-dollar annual
lending.


It also risks undermining his efforts to replenish the bank's
depleted lending budget by raising up to 25 billion dollars in
new funds from its richer members.


Due to promises of debt relief by the Group of Eight (G8)
nations, the bank and the IMF have lost billions in income from
repayments on loans given to borrowers in the developing world.


So after a series of battles with countries' directors on the
World Bank board over his anti-corruption drive and his
management style, Wolfowitz is having to go cap in hand to those
very donors.


Wolfowitz must now "decide for himself whether he can continue to
fulfill his duties credibly given that mistake (over Riza),"
German development minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul told
reporters.


The World Bank staff association says Wolfowitz has "destroyed"
the trust of employees and should "act honorably and resign." The
institution cannot "move forward with any sense of purpose under
the present leadership," it said.


Documents released by the bank's 24 executive directors have
exposed Wolfowitz's hand in a pay package worth nearly 200,000
dollars that was awarded to Riza, when she was reassigned to the
US State Department in September 2005 to prevent any conflicts of
interest with her new boss.


Wolfowitz does enjoy the backing of the White House, which said
Friday that President George W. Bush "fully supports Wolfowitz
and wants him to continue his service as World Bank president."


Bush's nomination two years ago of Wolfowitz for the World Bank
was always controversial given his role in driving forward the
war in Iraq.


Despite what he calls his "passion" for development work,
particularly in Africa, Wolfowitz was quick to ruffle feathers by
bringing in Republican Party allies to key posts in his inner
circle.


One appointee was Robin Cleveland, a senior White House official
involved in post-war Iraq planning, and another was Kevin
Kellems, formerly spokesman for Vice President Dick Cheney.


A downcast Wolfowitz, apologizing Thursday for the Riza affair,
said he accepted the need to clarify the roles of his coterie of
close advisors.


But the institution itself risks a slide into what one staffer
called "obscurity and irrelevance" for all but a handful of the
poorest countries, given the rise of fast-emerging powers like
China.


Francois Bourguignon, the World Bank's respected chief economist,
told the Financial Times that the future efficacy of the bank
"may be hurt by what is going on today."


"What we have to hope for is that there will be a quick
resolution -- whether that resolution goes in one direction or it
goes in another direction."

