

North Korea won a few more days to start shutting down its
nuclear programme Sunday after missing a first key deadline, even
as the United States and Japan piled pressure on the regime to
comply.


As the communist state celebrated the 95th birth anniversary of
its founder Kim Il-Sung, diplomats involved in disarmament
efforts said they would give it more time to shut down its
nuclear reactor.


China, its closest ally and the host of international talks on
the crisis, called for patience, and a senior US State Department
official downplayed the significance of Saturday's missed
deadline.


The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that
Washington was willing to accommodate delays over the next few
days.


The top US nuclear negotiator, Christopher Hill, expressed his
frustration and said it was time for North Korea to comply, but
also advised caution.


"Needless to say we are not happy that the DPRK has essentially
missed this very important deadline," he told a press conference,
referring to North Korea by its formal initials.


"The ball is in their court," Hill said in Beijing, where he
earlier spoke with his Chinese counterpart Wu Dawei.


"China has asked us to be patient for three or four days, that
seems like a wise thing to do. It's not for the US to take
unilateral actions.


"We need to work closely, multilaterally with our partners."


In Pyongyang, there was no official word Sunday on the nuclear
deadline as the nation focused on its festivities.


Thousands of people filed through the marble mausoleum housing
the embalmed body of Kim Il-Sung, who died in 1994 but still
retains the title of "eternal president."


After passing through strict security, visitors bowed four times
-- at the feet, head and both sides of Kim's body -- as a
revolutionary hymn played.


Under a February 13 deal, the North was supposed to shut down its
Yongbyon nuclear reactor within 60 days -- expiring Saturday --
and to invite UN atomic inspectors back in.


But the impoverished nation has refused to budge until it has
confirmed US assertions that 25 million dollars of cash has been
released from a Macau bank where it had been frozen by sanctions
since 2005.


"Our patience is not in infinite supply but given the kind of
complexities that did arise with some of the banking issues, it
is probably prudent to give this a few more days to see if the
statement of February 13 is something they are going to follow
through on," the State Department official said.


"We're going to see if we can get this back on track. We'd like
it to be on in the coming days," she added.


The State Department urged North Korea to turn Yongbyon off
immediately, a call echoed by Japan.


"Although the deadline has passed it is still extremely important
for North Korea to take initial action as soon as possible,"
warned Noriyuki Shikata, a Japanese foreign ministry spokesman.


The banking row is merely the latest hurdle to the six-nation
negotiations that China, the two Koreas, the United States, Japan
and Russia first launched on Pyongyang's nuclear programme in
2003.


Efforts took on added urgency last year, when the North test-
fired several missiles in July followed in October by its first
ever atom bomb test.


The February 13 accord promises North Korea, one of the world's
poorest and most isolated nations, up to one million tons of fuel
aid or its equivalent in return for dismantling its nuclear
programme.


A North Korean foreign ministry official told AFP on Friday that
Pyongyang stood behind the deal but would not act until it saw
the money from the Macau bank.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic," said Kim Son-gyong,
deputy director of the ministry's European department. "We will
be faithful to this agreement if the Americans respect its
clauses."

