

The mad scramble for Beijing Olympics tickets began Sunday with
organisers putting on sale more than seven million seats for the
world's premier sporting event.


"I am happy to say that tickets for the 2008 Olympic Games go on
sale globally today," Wang Wei, the executive vice president and
secretary general of the Beijing Olympic organising committee,
told a press conference here.


"We will ensure that the ticket sale takes place in an efficient,
fair and open manner."


Nearly 60 percent of saleable tickets will be reserved for
residents of China while the rest of the world will get 25
percent, said Rong Jun, director of the organising committee's
ticketing department.


The remainder will be reserved for schools, college students and
young athletes as part of an educational programme, he said.


Overseas sales will be managed by individual National Olympic
Committees.


"There are more than 200 countries with National Olympic
Committees who are eligible to apply for tickets," he said.
"After they get their allocation, it is up to them to determine
how they distribute their tickets."


The 60,000 seats up for sale for the August 8, 2008 opening
ceremony at the National Stadium, known as the 'Bird's Nest,' are
expected to be among the most sought-after during the two-week
games.


Some 40 percent of those are reserved for Chinese, who can apply
for just one ticket each for the opening ceremony and for the
August 24 closing ceremony.


Restrictions are also imposed on the number of tickets each
person can buy for main draw events like athletics, swimming,
gymnastics, basketball and football.


"To offer the largest number of people the opportunity to watch
the Olympic Games, BOCOG will limit the number of tickets each
individual may purchase," the organising committee, known by its
initials BOCOG, said in a statement.


For big-draw events, individuals get just two tickets each while
they can purchase three to five tickets for other events,
depending on demand.


Chinese residents can make reservations through the organising
committee ticketing website http://tickets.beijing2008.com, Bank
of China outlets or by calling the BOCOG ticketing call centre.


Organisers said high-tech methods had been employed to deter
forgers and that each ticket would be identified with individual
purchasers.


Ticket transfers can be made, but only through an application
process involving registering a change of name with organisers.

