

Filipino superstar Manny Pacquiao warmed up for his upcoming
election fight Saturday by stopping previously unbeaten Jorge
Solis in the eighth round of their scheduled 12-round super
featherweight bout.


Pacquiao, Ring magazine's 2006 fighter of the year, was having
some trouble solving Mexico's Solis in the early rounds, but was
galvanized by an accidental head butt that left him cut over the
left eye in the sixth.


Pacquiao landed a bevy of hard punches in both the sixth and
seventh before sending Solis to the canvas in the eighth with a
right uppercut that punctuated another series of brutal blows.


Solis got to his feet but was immediately dropped again and
couldn't beat the count of referee Vic Drakulich.


"In the early rounds I took it easy," Pacquiao said. "But when I
got a cut I was throwing more combinations and pretty soon I
knocked him out."


Pacquiao, who holds the World Boxing Council's "international"
super featherweight title, and is the WBC's No. 1 contender to
the super flyweight world title held by Juan Manuel Marquez of
Mexico, improved to 43-3-1 with 35 wins inside the distance.
Solis fell to 32-1-2.


A world title fight between Pacquiao and Marquez would seem a
logical next step. The two met in a classic featherweight bout in
May 2004 that ended in a draw.


However, the match-up could be stymied by the fact that Golden
Boy Promotions and Top Rank both claim they have possession of a
valid contract with Pacquiao.


While the lawyers sort things out, Pacquiao can again turn his
attention to May 14 elections in the Philippines, where he is
standing as a legislative candidate.


Last month, the General Santos City native's lawyer, Franklin
Gacal, submitted Pacquiao's certificate of candidacy to run in
South Cotabato.


The combination of Pacquiao's political and pugilitic pursuits
caused a brief uproar earlier this month, when fans protested a
bid to ban television coverage of Saturday's bout lest it give
him an unfair advantage in the polls.


Broadcast outlets were flooded with calls and text messages
demanding the 27 -year-old hero's fight be shown.


"There are rules in elections but Pacquiao is a phenomenon. He is
the only thing right now that excites the whole country," boxing
columnist Recah Trinidad told AFP.


"How can you sacrifice that just because of some silly political
exercise?"


On Saturday's undercard, Mexico's Cristian Mijares successfully
defended his WBC super flyweight crown with a unanimous decision
over former flyweight title holder Jorge Arce.


With scores of 119-109, 118-110 and 117-111, Mijares improved to
31-3-2, with 12 wins inside the distance, and retained a title he
captured on September 18.


Edgar Sosa captured the vacant WBC light flyweight belt with a
majority decision over former champion Brian Viloria.


Mexico's Sosa improved to 27-5, with 14 wins inside the distance,
thanks to a surge in the final rounds. Two judges scored the bout
115-113, while a third called it 114-114.


"I did enough to win, but he stepped it up in the championship
rounds, and that was the difference in the fight," Viloria
admitted.


Viloria, who fell to 19-2-1, held the title for nearly a year
before losing to Omar Nino on August 10.


Nino then tested positive for methamphetamine and was stripped of
the belt.

