

Much has changed in two years, Sir Alex Ferguson believes, and
that should bolster his side as they prepare to take on AC Milan
in the Champions League semi-finals.


The six-time European champions are the only remaining barrier to
an all-English final in Athens on May 23. The other semi-final
opposes Chelsea and Liverpool.


Two years ago AC Milan defeated the Old Trafford outfit 1-0 in
both legs, and there was little doubt that the Italians were the
better team.


But since then, Carlo Ancelloti's side have grown noticeably
longer in the tooth while becoming embroiled in Italy's match-
fixing scandal that saw them docked league points and fined.


Ferguson's side have emerged this year as one of the most
exciting on the continent, especially when twin tigers Wayne
Rooney and Cristiano Ronaldo are both on song.


Their tremendous seven-goal rout of Roma in the quarter-finals
last week have established the Red Devils as favourites to lift
the trophy for the first time since 1999.


"I am sure it will be a fantastic game but one thing is for
certain, we are not going to be afraid of it," Ferguson said of
the match against AC Milan.


"There were one or two moments in the last game two years ago
when there was a little bit of nervousness and caution about us.


"There is no need for that. We are playing a great side with a
lot of experience. But we have a lot of attributes too.''


Ferguson admires the longevity of evergreen Milan defender Paolo
Maldini - "how old is he, 91?" - and accepts Ancelloti's coaching
prowess will ensure Milan will be formidable foes.


But the Scot is confident in the abilities of his own team,
although he does accept there are key lessons to be learned from
their last visit to Milan.


"The last time we played them, we missed six or seven chances,"
he said.


"We know that cannot happen again, so the experience of our last
games against them is going to be a big help."


Ferguson also played down fears there could be more crowd
trouble, especially in Italy, to follow the violence that marred
both clashes against Roma.


"In terms of our experiences in Milan, the last time there were
no problems and hopefully it will be the same again," he said.


"I didn't think there would be any problem before our game on
Tuesday but there was a short spell of trouble.


"Unfortunately, it kept being repeated on TV so it made you think
there was bedlam for an hour, which gave a bad impression.


"Overall, the police dealt with the situation absolutely
brilliantly and hopefully the Milan police will have enough
consideration to deal with anything that comes along over there."

