

A deadline for North Korea to start nuclear disarmament under a
February accord has passed with little sign of progress, although
all sides say they are committed to the deal.


Here are key developments since the latest standoff began:


2002:


- October: US says Pyongyang has admitted running a secret highly
enriched uranium programme in violation of a 1994
denuclearisation accord, a charge it denies.


- December: North Korea unseals its Yongbyon reactor, expels
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors.


2003:


- January 10: North Korea says it will quit the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty.


- August 27-29: First round of six-party talks -- involving the
two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and the United States -- is held
in Beijing.


2004


- September 28: After two more rounds of nuclear talks, North
Korea announces it has completed processing 8,000 spent nuclear
fuel rods.


2005


- September 19: At a fourth round of talks, North Korea agrees to
scrap its nuclear programme and return to the Non-Proliferation
Treaty in return for security and diplomatic guarantees, energy
aid and a possible future light-water reactor.


- November 9-11: A fifth round of talks takes place but collapses
with the North insisting that US-inspired financial sanctions,
including the freezing of its accounts in a Macau bank, must be
lifted.


2006


- July 4-5: North Korea test-fires seven missiles.


- October 9: North announces it has conducted its first ever
nuclear test.


- October 31: Following secret talks with his North Korean
counterpart in Beijing, US negotiator Christopher Hill announces
that North Korea has agreed to return to the six-nation talks.


- December 18: Talks resume, ending after five days with little
progress as Pyongyang demands the sanctions on the Macau bank be
lifted.


2007


- February 8: Fresh round of six-nation talks begins in Beijing.


- February 13: China announces deal under which North Korea will
close key nuclear facilities and allow UN atomic inspectors back
in. If the accord holds, it will be given one million tonnes of
fuel aid and removed from a US list of terrorist states. The
United States promises to begin process of establishing
diplomatic relations with Pyongyang.


- March 19: New round of six-nation talks breaks down after four
days over the North's insistence that Macau funds be returned as
the US had pledged.


- April 10: US Treasury says Macau authorities will unblock all
frozen North Korean accounts, with its approval.


- April 13: North Korea promises to start scrapping its nuclear
programme once it confirms the money dispute is settled.


- April 14: Deadline for the North to shut down Yongbyon under
phase one of the February accord passes without any sign of
action.

