

Balthazar Napoleon de Bourbon III, a lawyer who lives in the
heart of India, is so convinced he is the true heir to France's
King Henri IV that he wants the title "Duke of France".


The family of the rotund 48-year-old landowner settled in Bhopal
in 1775 and he has long promoted his lineage dating back to the
rulers of France and Spain.


His house is even emblazoned with a brass sign that reads "House
of Bourbon", set above a fleur-de-lis. The heraldic crest of the
French monarchy also decorates his furniture, business cards and
cuff-links.


"I have always been instilled with the idea that I belong to a
noble and royal family," he told AFP in an interview.


But Balthazar has been galvanized in his search for recognition
and a real title by the research of Prince Michael of Greece into
a cousin of Henri IV.


Prince Michael's French book "Le Rajah Bourbon", published this
year, confirmed for Balthazar what he says he knew all along --
he is the most likely surviving heir to the throne.


"The book says: 'Had it been a monarchy, you would have been the
king'," Balthazar beams, before adding, "But I am well aware of
the fact that there is no monarchy in France, that there is a
democracy."


He admits to not speaking a word of French, to never even setting
foot in the country.


Balthazar is however a Catholic, his ancestors built a fine
church here and his children are called Frederic, Michelle and
Adrien. He also harbours a strong desire "to go to Versailles
castle".


"Whether they recognise me or not, I am a part of a big family. I
am a fraction of a part of France," he insists.


"I have the same blood that Jean-Philippe (de Bourbon) had. A
French and royal blood.


"If Jean-Philippe is in the direct line of succession, so I am."


According to "Le Rajah Bourbon", Jean-Philippe de Bourbon Navarre
arrived in 1560 at the court of Emperor Akbar, the third ruler of
India's Mughal dynasty. He was the son of Connetable de Bourbon,
a cousin of Henri IV.


History relates that Jean-Philippe fled through Spain after
killing a French nobleman, was kidnapped by pirates, shipwrecked
off Egypt and captured by the Ethiopian army before escaping to
Goa in southern India.


He found favour at Akbar's court, married the sister of one of
the emperor's wives and moved from Agra to New Delhi. It was
there that Jean-Philippe learnt that Henri IV had been crowned in
France and that he himself was next in line.


Jean-Philippe gave up any claim to the throne and his descendants
later settled in Bhopal.


The book and a visit by Prince Michael to Bhopal has emboldened
Balthazar to seek recognition.


"Recognition means at least to give us any royal title, like
'Duke of France' or 'Duke of Bourbon'.


"The House of Bourbon would be entitled to give the title. It
would be a kind of recognition of the sufferings of Jean-
Philippe. It would be a recognition for my family who had
migrated to India on compulsion."


But Balthazar seems to suffer something of an inferiority complex
with respect to the European royals he imagines to be rich and
powerful, and wants to make it clear he is not after their money.


"The urge for me is a family link. I am not claiming any riches
in France. Don't be scared. I am just part of the family," he
says.


"Economically, I am the weakest link in the Bourbon family. I
have access to limited resources. There might be people who might
be thinking I would try to unsettle them."

