

A city of dull grey buildings where dire poverty lurks just
beneath the surface, Pyongyang is showing off one form of its
power with a mesmerising display of choreographed acrobatics
unparalleled in the world.


While the rest of the world was watching to see if the hardline
communist state would meet a key nuclear disarmament deadline
this weekend, the North's leaders were sparing no expense for the
lavish show.


The festival celebrates the 95th birth anniversary Sunday of the
nation's founder Kim Il-Sung, who died in 1994 but still retains
the title of "eternal president."


The May 1 Stadium, with 150,000 seats the world's largest sports
facility outside of Rio de Janeiro, late Saturday put on an
80-minute spectacle worthy of Disneyland or the Cirque du Soleil
-- only on a more massive scale.


The debut of the "Arirang Festival," named after a traditional
Korean folk song, defies artistic genres. It is at once a ballet,
an opera and a communist version of a musical.


No fewer than 100,000 people, mobilised through their schools or
municipal wards, took part in the celebrations, from dancers to
acrobats to gymnasts.


In the stands, 18,000 students, all acting in perfect unison,
proved their dexterity by transforming into successive colourful
mosaics by raising tiles over their heads.


Women in traditional gowns ran into the stadium to form the image
of the North Korean flag.


The regime has refused to shut down its Yongbyon reactor by this
weekend -- as stipulated under a US-backed arms-for-disarmament
deal -- until it sees 25 million dollars blacklisted in a Macau
bank account.


North Korea has boasted that it extracted concessions from the
United States after flexing its newly-acquired nuclear muscle
with its first ever atom bomb test in October.


While that test demonstrated the determination of scientists, the
Arirang Festival shows the commitment at a more mass scale.


Thousands of people had fine-tuned their moves for weeks in
public places, which the government kept lit up until well into
the night despite the normal darkness that enshrouds the cash-
strapped nation from evening onwards.


It was only the third edition of the Arirang Festival, the first
of which took place in 2002 on the 90th birth anniversary of Kim
Il-Sung, the father of current leader Kim Jong-Il.


The festival has no overt slogans against the enemies regularly
denounced by North Korea -- the United States and Japan.


Instead the performers put on odes to farmers, with giant letters
above the stage reading the message, "Higher and faster towards
the 21st century."


The celebration is also dedicated to the theme of "national
unity" between the two Koreas, split for more than half a
century.


It comes in four chapters: "Arirang Nation," "Arirang Joy,"
"Arirang Reunification" -- with the theme "How long will the
Arirang Nation remain divided?" -- and, in the finale, "The
Prosperous and Powerful Arirang."


"The 'Arirang' is a folk song that explains all the melancholy of
lovers who are divided. In that way it symbolises the feelings of
the divided Koreans," said Deputy Culture Minister Song Sok-hwan,
the organiser of the event.


"This is an artistic show which brings together gymnastics, music
and design, not politics," Song told AFP ahead of the show.


North Korea has staged mass games in various incarnations since
the founding of the state in 1946.


But more recently, the events have also become a foreign exchange
earner.


The Koryo Hotel, whose two towers often put up foreign guests,
was packed with visitors for the celebrations, most notably
Russians.


Foreigners' tickets to the Arirang Festival, which will continue
nightly until the end of May, cost between 50 and 300 euros, the
accepted foreign currency in North Korea.


For North Koreans, a 100-euro ticket costs one and a half won,
roughly the cost of a meal outside.

