

Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger warned his players not to take a
place in the Champions League for granted after they took control
of the race for fourth place with a 2-1 win against Bolton.


Wenger's side are now five points clear of fifth-placed Bolton
with a game in hand and are on course to earn a spot in Europe's
top club competition next season.


They needed a stirring fightback on Saturday after 10-man Bolton
took the lead through former Gunners forward Nicolas Anelka.
Goals from Tomas Rosicky and Cesc Fabregas eventually saw off
Bolton, who had Ivan Campo dismissed late in the second half for
two bookings.


Anelka gave Bolton an early lead, but Arsenal levelled after 31
minutes. Emmanuel Adebayor chipped to the far post, where Rosicky
got in front of Nicky Hunt to stab past Jussi Jaaskelainen.


Arsenal were without a win in their previous four matches but
they went in front a minute into the second half. Gilberto
Silva's pass split the Bolton defence and Fabregas strode through
to slot home his first Premiership goal of the season.


But Wenger knows Arsenal cannot afford to relax as they prepare
for Manchester City's visit on Tuesday.


He said: "We were tested mentally at 1-0 down against a good side
and overall I am very happy because we didn't panic.


"Our bad periods are always exaggerated but when you flirt with a
bad period, you find out what is in your team. Unfortunately, in
football you go quickly to hell and very slowly to heaven.


"Fourth place is not secure. It is an important result because it
is a big step forward, but it is not enough. We have to take
advantage of our game in hand on Tuesday against City."


Bolton boss Sam Allardyce added: "Within the first 15 minutes it
was looking pretty good and we got the goal that we wanted and
had an opportunity to nick a second.


"We just conceded too much ground and stopped playing for some
strange reason."


Sheffield United moved out of the relegation zone with a crucial
3-0 win over fellow strugglers West Ham at Bramall Lane.


Neil Warnock's team climbed above Charlton and sit one place
above the bottom three thanks to goals from Michael Tonge, Phil
Jagielka and Jon Stead.


Warnock said: "We've been quite relaxed this week and I thought
it showed in our play. The pressure was on West Ham and they were
nervous. It was a real team performance and we scored some
cracking goals."


Hammers boss Alan Curbishley added: "The players are very
disappointed but I hope they don't think it's over because it
isn't. We've got two home games coming up and we can turn it
around."


Lawrie Sanchez's first match as Fulham manager ended in defeat as
Stephen Hunt's goal gave Reading a 1-0 win at the Madejski
Stadium.


Northern Ireland coach Sanchez is in charge on a caretaker basis
until the end of the season, but he was unable to have an instant
impact after Crhis Coleman's midweek sacking.


Fulham remain in relegation danger after Hunt side-footed in
Kevin Doyle's cross from close range in the 15th minute.


Sanchez is convinced Fulham will stay up and he said "We were a
bit unfortunate to lose a game we dominated. We had a perfectly
good goal disallowed as often happens when you are at the bottom
of the table.


"But I told the players if they carry on giving that effort I
have no doubt we will get the points to see us where we need to
be."


Liverpool stayed third after playing out a dour 0-0 draw at
Manchester City.


Rafa Benitez's men were unable to maintain the momentum of their
previous four victories in a game of few chances.


Benitez was angry with his lacklustre side's display and said: "I
am really disappointed with that performance. We should have been
able to score when we were on top in the first half and
controlling the game.


"But the way we played after the break was poor. Every time they
had a long ball, a long throw or a free-kick we seemed to be
under pressure."


Matt Taylor kept Portsmouth's European challenge alive with a
stunning goal that ensured his side beat Newcastle 2-1 at Fratton
Park.


Benjani Mwaruwari gave Portsmouth a seventh minute lead before
Taylor hit a 30-yard strike that gave Steve Harper no chance.
Emre's 69th minute penalty was no consolation for Newcastle.


Aston Villa striker Luke Moore scored his first goal since
September as his side won 3-1 at Middlesbrough.


Thomas Sorensen fumbled Fabio Rochemback's 30-yard free-kick into
his own net early on. But Martin O'Neill's side equalised on the
stroke of half time when Craig Gardner drove in his first goal
for Villa.


Moore put Villa ahead and Stilian Petrov wrapped up a convincing
victory.


Wigan host Tottenham on Sunday, while Charlton travel to Everton
later the same day.

