

Troops captured a militants' camp in the southern Philippines
after Muslim rebels broke a truce and shelled a Marine outpost, a
military spokesman said Sunday.


The camp of Habier Malik, a commander of the Moro National
Liberation Front (MNLF), in Panamao town in the southern island
of Jolo, was captured by troops backed by helicopter gunships,
with no casualties on the government side, said Major Eugene
Batara.


Malik's forces were believed to have suffered many casualties but
the whereabouts of Malik is not known, the major added.


"There have been intermittent clashes and the group of Malik is
on the run," Batara said, adding that troops had been deployed to
prevent other militant groups from coming to Malik's aid.


Fighting is still going on in parts of Panamao, the military
said.


Presidential Executive Secretary Eduardo Ermita said that the
attack by Malik had been unprovoked and was a violation of a
peace accord between the MNLF and the government.


He said other MNLF commanders in Jolo were not supporting Malik's
actions.


The attack on Malik's camp came after he and his MNLF followers
used mortars to shell a Marine base near Panamao late Friday,
killing two Marines and a civilian and triggering a firefight.


It was not clear why Malik's forces began shelling the Marine
camp, Batara said.


In February, Malik kidnapped government peace negotiators in Jolo
but released them later after securing a pledge from the
government that it would look into the plight of jailed former
MNLF leader Nur Misuari. This included the possibility of being
more lenient towards Misuari.


The MNLF was a former Muslim separatist group that signed a peace
pact with the government in 1996. They dropped their independence
bid and opted for limited self-autonomy, and their leader, Nur
Misuari, was subsequently named governor of a Muslim region.


Five years after the accord, however, Misuari launched a fresh
rebellion after he lost the government's support over alleged
corruption.


Misuari's forces attacked government targets on Jolo and nearby
Zamboanga city, killing more than 100 people. He fled to
Malaysia, but was later captured and deported and is now in jail
in a police camp south of Manila.


He remains an influential figure in Muslim communities in the
south and Malik is a known Misuari loyalist. The Organization of
the Islamic Conference (OIC) has been lobbying for his release to
attend a meeting in Saudi Arabia in July.


Ermita warned that if Malik intended to use the attack to press
for Misuari's release, this would only hurt his cause.


"That would not be right. Misuari is in detention and they should
behave correctly so that government will be more lenient in
deciding how to handle Nur Misuari," he said.


The 57-nation OIC recognises the MNLF as the sole representative
of Muslim minorities in the majority Catholic Philippines.

