

The United States pressed North Korea to invite the UN nuclear
watchdog to oversee a shutdown of a key nuclear plant after it
missed an agreed international deadline Saturday, but left open
the door for compliance.


North Korea must "realize fully its commitments ... by inviting
back the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) immediately to
begin shutting and sealing the Yongbyon nuclear facility," US
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in a statement.


Saturday was the deadline for North Korea to start shutting down
the reactor and admit UN atomic inspectors as required under an
aid-for-disarmament deal it reached with five world powers on
February 13.


Inviting the IAEA would "enable the other parties to follow
through with the provision of emergency energy assistance
equivalent to 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil and move the six-
party process forward," McCormack said.


The State Department said Saturday its patience with North Korea
was not "infinite," but nevertheless appeared to heed Beijing's
advice to allow Pyongyang time to fulfill its obligations under
the accord.


"We're going to see if we can get this back on track. We'd like
it to be on in the coming days," a senior State Department
official told reporters in a briefing, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


McCormack said Washington and its negotiating partners "remain
firmly committed to prompt completion of the initial action plan
and to achieving the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula."


Progress on the disarmament agreement, reached after years of
talks, has been held up by Pyongyang's refusal to begin closing
the facility before the release of some 25 million dollars of
North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to US sanctions.


The United States said the funds were finally made available to
Pyongyang this week.


Along with China, North and South Korea, Japan and Russia, it has
been discussing ways to get North Korea to end its nuclear
programs since 2003. Since then, the Stalinist regime has tested
a nuclear bomb and ballistic missiles.


"Clearly the onus is now on Pyongyang to bring in the IAEA and
start shutting down Yongbyon," the senior State Department
official said.


She acknowledged China's calls for patience during US envoy
Christopher Hill's visit to Beijing this weekend and said there
would be "close consultations over the next few days" with other
parties to the six-nation deal.


"Our patience is not in infinite supply but given the kind of
complexities that did arise with some of the banking issues, it
is probably prudent to give this a few more days to see if the
statement of February 13 is something they are going to follow
through on."


The State Department official added that Washington was willing
to accommodate delays over the next few days. Major celebrations
are under way in North Korea this weekend to mark the birthday of
its leader Kim Jong-Il's late father Kim Il-Sung, who was born
April 15, 1912.


"We are not interested in negotiating a new deadline," she said.
"What we are going to focus on now is getting it done as quickly
as we possibly can."


The United States is to "work with our partners in the talks to
see if we can get the movement we need in the coming days."


Bill Richardson, the governor of the US state of New Mexico who
led a White House-backed delegation to Pyongyang this week, told
CNN news the process was "moving in the right direction."


"I believe they made the strategic decision to shut down the
reactor," he said of the Koreans. "In return, they'll get food,
energy assistance, an agreement that they won't be attacked. So
it's in their interests."

