

Normal order was restored in the Super 14 rugby competition over
the weekend as perennial favourites the Canterbury Crusaders
muscled their way to the head of the table.


The Crusaders took control of the logjam at the top of the
championship when they beat the Otago Highlanders for their fifth
consecutive bonus-point win while previous pace-setters, the
Auckland Blues, fell to the Coastal Sharks.


The shake-up put the two New Zealand sides on 37 points, but with
the Crusaders ahead on scoring differential, while South Africa's
leading lights, the Sharks, are three points back in third place.


The Waikato Chiefs from New Zealand, South Africa's Northern
Bulls and the ACT Brumbies from Australia all have 27 points, but
with the late-charging Chiefs credited with fourth on points
differential.


Even with just three rounds remaining most of the field retain a
mathematical chance at least of making the final four.


The fading Western Force, who have conceded more than 100 points
in their past two games, are only one point behind the Chiefs,
with the Wellington Hurricanes, Otago Highlanders and Golden
Lions bunched below.


However, they are not playing at the same level as the Crusaders
who are aiming for a third successive title and their seventh
crown in 10 years.


Even performing below their best on Saturday they still
clinically swept aside the Highlanders 38-3.


The craggy Highlanders pack, including All Blacks Anton Oliver,
Carl Hayman and Clarke Dermody, had the power to control the set
pieces, but they lacked the talent to penetrate the determined
Crusaders defence.


In contrast, the Crusaders displayed the traits that have made
them the most successful franchise in the history of Super rugby,
as they soaked up the pressure then counter-attacked at every
opportunity.


They scored one try in the first half and four in the second,
wearing down the Highlanders with ruthless efficiency.


The Sharks underscored their playoff credentials when they out-
played the Blues in a spiteful encounter that left Blues coach
David Nucifora fuming.


While Nucifora accepted the Sharks deserved their win, he was
also critical of what he claimed were off-the-ball incidents that
went unpunished by Australian referee Stuart Dickinson


"We did ask for that to be policed during the game but I didn't
think it was done satisfactorily. It started quite a bit of the
niggle," he said.


The Sharks also benefited from a forward pass in the move that
led to Odwa Ndungane's try, and interference that resulted in a
try for JP Pietersen, but they also had too much legitimate
power.


The Blues, who had no answer to the kicking of teenage flyhalf
Francois Steyn and fullback Percy Montgomery which kept them
pinned on defence, now face three tough assignments on the road.


Roy Kinikinilau and Brendon Leonard both scored a hat-trick of
tries as the Waikato Chiefs came into contention with an
overwhelming 64-36 demolition of the Western Force in a free-
flowing spectacular at Waikato Stadium in Hamilton.


The Chiefs recovered from a slow start to run in nine tries, but
in a match which produced a staggering 100 points, questions were
raised about their defence which leaked five tries.


Although the Chiefs have only won four matches so far, they have
amassed nine bonus points from 10 games, while the once high-
flying Force are on a slide, conceding 117 points in the past two
weeks.


In a South African local derby, the Northern Bulls remained on
the edge of the final four when they overwhelmed the Western
Stormers 49-12, scoring seven tries, five of them by the forwards
who laid the foundations for the win.


With a massive 55-kilogramme weight advantage up front, the Bulls
controlled every aspect of forward play.


The Wellington Hurricanes kept their faint play-off hopes alive,
moving up to eighth on the table with a 37-15 win over the
Central Cheetahs, while in the battle for the wooden spoon the
New South Wales Waratahs beat the Queensland Reds 26-13.

