

Gordon Strachan admits his Celtic side are tiring as they close
in on a league and cup double this season.


On Saturday the Parkhead club clinched their place in the
Scottish Cup final with a 2-1 win over First Division side St
Johnstone at Hampden.


However, a battling display from the Perth side meant Celtic were
never convincing winners and continued their recent run of poor
performances.


Although they are only one victory away from securing their
second consecutive Scottish Premier League title, the Glasgow
giants have only won one game from their last four league
matches.


Despite Dutch striker Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink's two goals
seeing off the challenge of St Johnstone, who levelled through an
own goal from Celtic's Stephen McManus, their performance in the
semi-final was far from impressive.


Strachan acknowledged his side are not operating at full capacity
but says memories of their achievements so far this season will
keep them going until the end of the campaign.


The Celtic manager said: "What we are running on at the moment is
pride - pride that we got to the last 16 of the Champions League,
pride that we are 13 points clear in the SPL, proud that four of
my players are in the running for the Players' Player of the Year
awards and proud to be in the cup final.


"We're not running on fantastic football, not running on too much
energy so we are running on pride and determination."


While Strachan accepts Celtic did not hit top form in Saturday's
semi he believes this was partly due to the efforts of St
Johnstone.


The Perth side have already proved they can defeat SPL sides this
season in the two cups and are currently sitting second in the
First Division behind leaders Gretna in the race for the one
promotion place to the top division.


And Strachan believes they will be an asset to the SPL when they
do eventually get there.


He said: "You seen a good St Johnstone side who will be a good
addition to the Scottish Premier League when they get there.


"Five SPL teams have tried to beat them this year. Hibs managed
to only after extra-time in the League Cup semi-final.


"They also beat Rangers 2-0 at Ibrox in the League Cup so they
are doing well.


"St Johnstone deserve a chance in the SPL that's for sure."


In Saturday's game Celtic had taken the lead in the 13th minute
from the penalty spot, after Vennegoor of Hesselink fell in the
18-yard box after a challenge from St Johnstone goalkeeper Kevin
Cuthbert.


The Dutch striker took the kick himself and his low shot struck
the bottom of the post before finding the net.


This could have signalled the start of a Celtic walkover against
their lower league opponents but in the 19th minute St Johnstone
were level.


Paul Sheerin's cross into the penalty area found Peter MacDonald
who took a touch before lifting the ball over the head of
Celtic's Polish goalkeeper Artur Boruc.


Although McManus managed to get his head to the ball on the line
he could only help it into the net.


Celtic came out of the half-time break in a positive frame of
mind and in the 54th minute they regained their lead.


A corner kick from Japanese star Shunsuke Nakamura found
Vennegoor of Hesselink at the front post and he sent an
unstoppable header past Cuthbert to take Celtic through to the
final which will be played at Hampden on Saturday, May 26.

