

The war crimes trial of former Macedonian minister Ljube
Boskovski and his bodyguard, Johan Tarculovski, accused over
attacks against ethnic Albanians in 2001, will start before the
UN court on Monday.


Boskovski and Tarculovski are the first Macedonians to stand
trial before the UN court in The Hague which is mandated to
prosecute genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity
committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991.


Prosecutors say Boskovski, 46, the former minister of the
interior, and ex- policeman Tarculovski, 32, are responsible for
war crimes committed against ethnic Albanians during an uprising
in 2001, including the murder of seven people in the village of
Ljuboten in northwestern Macedonia.


According to the indictment Tarculovski planned and personally
took part in the attack on the village. The incident came during
a seven-month conflict between ethnic Albanian guerrillas and
government security forces.


It was an apparent retaliation for an attack on Macedonian forces
by Albanian guerrillas in the area a day earlier.


"During the attack ... seven ethnic Albanian men died (and) at
least 14 houses were intentionally set alight," the UN court
says.


Over a hundred other Albanian residents of Ljuboten were
detained, beaten, humiliated and subjected to psychological
abuse, according to the prosecution.


The indictment states the crimes were committed by a police unit
under Tarculovski's command.


At the time of the attack Boskovski was interior minister and
thus commanded and controlled the police. He has been indicted
because the prosecutor said he did nothing to prevent the crimes
or punish those responsible.


Both men have pleaded not guilty to the charges.


In his initial appearance before the UN court in April 2005
Boskovski called the investigation into the crimes by the court
"an anti-Macedonian act" and vowed to defend his honour and
innocence as well as "the innocence of my country".


Before his transfer to The Hague in 2005 the former minister had
been detained in Croatia on charges of the murder of seven south
Asian immigrants in March 2002.


The seven immigrants, six Pakistanis and an Indian, were wrongly
accused of attacks on western embassies in Skopje and killed by
Macedonian special forces while Boskovski was interior minister.


Boskovski, who is married to a Croat, obtained Croatian
nationality in 1993 after living for more than 20 years in
Croatia before settling in Macedonia in 1999.


His trial in The Hague will start Monday when the prosecution
will outline its case in an opening statement. After the
preliminary remarks the trial will adjourn until May 7 when the
prosecution will call its first witness.

