

Military-ruled Myanmar has recently signed off on a raft of
energy deals with its power-hungry neighbours, winning the junta
a desperately needed income stream.


But Chinese and Thai dams to be built on Myanmar's rivers to
power their own economies and Asian companies drilling for
natural gas off the coast to boost fuel exports are cold comfort
for impoverished locals.


Most have been left in the dark as blackouts stretch through most
of the day, even as reclusive officials in the new administrative
capital Naypyidaw in central Myanmar enjoy an abundance of
energy.


The sprawling capital, once a mountainous backwater and home to
government and military offices since last year, boasts 24-hour
electricity, amply lit streets with few cars and fairy lights
that twinkle around ministry buildings.


That contrasts starkly with Yangon, Myanmar's biggest city, where
people and businesses do without electricity for most of the day,
and they are hurting.


"Now we average about four hours per day with power in our
industrial zone, about a 50 percent decline from eight hours per
day in March," a businessman, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, told AFP.


"Many factory owners have to rely on generators mostly. The price
of diesel is also going up now. But we have no choice," he added.


"We were informed that the electricity distribution department
has some technical problems. But we don't know when it will be in
a normal condition."


As of September last year, Myanmar had an installed capacity of
1,775 megawatts. Just one of the dams Thailand is building on the
Salween River has a capacity to produce three times that amount.


"We had good sales in previous months... but they have declined
over the last three weeks because of the daily blackouts," said
one electronics shop owner.


Myanmar's official energy statistics provide some insight though
many questions are left unanswered by bureaucrats responsible for
administering one of the world's most isolated states.


According to the Myanmar Electric Power Enterprise, 40 percent of
the electricity generated in 2005 was never sold to consumers or
businesses.


While some electricity is normally lost during transmission and
distribution, the enormous shortfall has never been explained and
electricity officials could not be reached for comment.


In Yangon, the nation's former capital and commercial hub, the
power shortage is hammering a moribund economy and for many, the
lack of power also means a lack of water as most pumps are
electric.


"We normally get about six hours per day, but we can't do
anything since it usually comes on at night," said Htwe Htwe, a
50-year-old Yangon housewife, who complained that the outages
prevent her from cooking or cleaning.


"My family has to eat the leftover rice and curry. Our priority
is to get water first whenever the power comes back," she said.


"For the last two weeks, we only get three hours a day."


The Southeast Asian nation is under a series of US and European
economic sanctions imposed over the junta's rights abuses and the
house arrest of 61 -year-old democracy icon and Nobel peace
laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.


But the impact of the sanctions has been weakened as Myanmar's
neighbours such as China, India and Thailand are spending
billions of dollars for a share of its vast energy resources.


According to 2006 official figures, 13 foreign oil companies are
working on 33 energy projects in Myanmar but none of the benefits
appear to have filtered through to the general population.


Residents are especially chafed over the outages because the
government hiked electricity charges 10-fold last year, earning
authorities an extra eight million dollars in the first half of
the 2006 fiscal year.


For those who can afford it, generators have become a necessity.
But soaring demand for fuel has sent prices surging and created
further shortages in an already unstable market, petrol dealers
said.


This has forced frustrated consumers onto the black market where
prices are up about seven percent for petrol and diesel -- when
it is available at all. Otherwise, people go without.


"Many residents come to buy for their generators. But sometimes
we have no petrol to sell," one black market dealer said.

