

Four years after Switzerland's Alinghi created waves by stunning
New Zealand to capture the America's Cup the time has come for
the winner to lay her title on the line.


Over the next two months 11 challengers drawn from five
continents will fight it out on the waters off Valencia's
magnificent purpose-built marina.


The winner of the Louis Vuitton Cup, which starts here Monday,
will earn the right to take on Alinghi in the 32nd edition of
sport's oldest trophy which returns to Europe for the first time
since the inaugural edition off Cowes in 1851.


"We are in for an incredible sporting story full of drama,
intrigue and surprise," predicted the organiser's media director,
Marcus Hutchinson, 48 hours before the first starting gun is
fired.


"It'll be known as the Battle of Valencia, and like all great sea
battles there's only one winner."


Described by one French sailing professional as being like a team
of rugbymen on board a Formula One car playing a game of chess -
this America's Cup promises to be a finely-fought affair.


Peter Isler, who as skipper of BMW Oracle is hoping to bring the
'Auld Mug' back to America for the first time in a decade and a
half, predicted: "There's a deeper fleet this time and compared
to previous Cups the boat speeds are closer, racing will be
tight, I reckon it'll be the closest yet."


Four of the past six winners of the Louis Vuitton Cup, which runs
through to June 16, have gone on to defeat the defender, and as
the phoney war since Alinghi's shock triumph in Auckland draws to
a close the rain-filled Valencia sky was heavy with expectation.


"I keep telling myself this should be the fun part, when we get
to go racing. But there's so much money and prestige involved of
course there's pressure," said Isler.


Oracle are favourites to confront Alinghi with Team New Zealand,
who are out to exact revenge after their chastening 5-0 drubbing
in Auckland Bay in 2003.


As if the burden of trying to redress that humiliation wasn't
enough the Kiwis have the added pressure of New Zealand Prime
Minister Helen Clark as 18th 'man' in their boat on Monday.


"We haven't talked about the protocol of how to address her but
I'm sure she won't be too happy if she gets soaked," smiled the
team's skipper, Dean Barker.


The 31-year-old was at the helm of that drubbing and is desperate
to gain redress against his Swiss conqueror.


"For me 2003 seems a long, long time ago.


"After all the hours testing New Zealand are ready to put their
best foot forward. We're ready to go racing and hopefully get a
good result."


Past winners Australia may be noticeable by their absence but
this year's Cup has added spice with the presence of first timers
China, Germany and South Africa.


Spain's third city was chosen over Marseille to host the return
of the yachting blue riband for the first time since Cowes 156
years ago as rules dictate it must be held on seawater, ruling
out Switzerland.


And Isler raised his cap to salute the effort put in by the
Spanish hosts.


"This is the best America's Cup venue ever. There's never been a
venue even close to what we have here. It's a great boon to the
competition to have this arena."


America, holders from 1851 through to 1983, are desperate to
reclaim what they used to regard as rightfully theirs.


And their determination to ensure the coveted trophy returns to
their shores after an absence of a decade and a half can be
measured by the amount of investment - put at well over 120
million euros - ploughed into their challenge.


And while anything short of victory for Oracle or Team New
Zealand will be deemed a failure they and the other competitors
will at least hope they don't end up suffering the same fate as
the star of an ill-timed exhibition at Valencia's arts centre
next to the port - the Titanic.

