

The world's top casino operators are jockeying for a stake in a
vast but untapped market as Japan moves closer to an overhaul of
its strict gambling laws to lure rich Asian tourists and boost
its economy.


Japan would be a latecomer to a gambling boom across the region,
which is looking to Las Vegas-style super casinos to entice more
tourists, with two huge complexes springing up in Singapore to
take on the Chinese enclave of Macau.


Taiwan is considering lifting its ban on casinos while Thailand
is also seen as likely to relax its gaming laws in the coming
years.


"Nowadays casinos are not considered to be evil places, whereas
they might have been considered so 20 years ago," said Aaron
Fischer, an analyst who follows gaming at the investment bank
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.


"Across Asia over the last few years you've been seeing
legalisation of casinos including in Singapore and Macau," he
noted, predicting that Japan would follow suit within the next
few years.


Lawmakers from Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) are
already drawing up proposals to allow a handful of huge Vegas-
style casinos, which could open their doors within a few years.


Almost half of the lower house of parliament -- including some
opposition lawmakers -- supports the general idea of legalising
casinos, said Toru Mihara, adviser to the LDP's casino study
group.


"If we can create legal structures within one or two years to
come, maybe in 2012 casinos in Japan will start to operate," he
told AFP in an interview.


The major US casino operators are already regular visitors to
Japan, networking and lobbying behind the scenes to try to secure
a lucrative contract in the world's second-largest economy,
Mihara said.


"They are totally keen on this potential big market," he added.


But local entertainment companies are also expected to be
involved as the government will be reluctant to hand over to
foreign operators alone what some experts say is almost a licence
to print money.


So US giants such as Las Vegas Sands and Harrah's Entertainment
could team up with Japanese companies such as Sega Sammy, Konami
or Aruze to build huge entertainment complexes including casinos,
analysts said.


Although illegal backroom casinos exist in Japan, the only
gambling officially open to the country's population of 128
million is on horse, speedboat and bicycle racing and lotteries.


But anyone in doubt of Japan's love of a flutter need look no
further than the nation's multi-billion dollar pachinko industry,
which attracts some 17 million punters, from salarymen to
pensioners and even young women.


Pachinko, a Japanese version of pinball played in thousands of
noisy parlours across the country, is not officially defined as
gambling, because prizes have to be exchanged outside the
premises for cash.


"There are approximately 5.5 million pachinko and pachislot
machines here in Japan. If you count this as similar to slot
machines, we're the biggest casino country in the world," said
Mihara.


"It does seem that the Japanese have a high gaming propensity."


Add to that the growing number of wealthy Chinese who could jet
in to Tokyo for a weekend, and the casinos would not likely be
short of punters, he said.


Only about 8.1 million tourists visited Japan in 2006, while Las
Vegas attracted a record 38.9 million visitors and Macau 22
million.


Tokyo and the southern island region of Okinawa are seen as
likely locations for the first casinos.


So far the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, struggling in
the polls, is taking a softly softly approach, apparently wary of
a voter backlash ahead of elections for the upper house of
parliament in July.


Although widely popular, the pachinko industry is dogged by
criticism of gambling addiction as well as alleged links to
organised crime and even Kim Jong-Il's North Korea.


"Problems related to pachinko dependency include accidents
involving child neglect -- children neglected in cars who die
from heat -- as well as debt," said a spokesman for the pachinko
addiction group Recovery Support Network.


In one case a couple of years ago, a six-month-old baby died
after her 27-year- old mother left her in a car for two and a
half hours in the summer heat to play slot games and did not even
return during a major earthquake.


Although casinos are expected to attract a different type of
punter, Mihara said their legalisation could eventually kill off
the popular pinball game if authorities subsequently decided to
crack down on the murky world of pachinko.

