

The dust clouds from the convoy of United States Army tanks
disperse and on the horizon an Iraqi town complete with mosques,
municipal buildings and people emerges.


The road signs are in Arabic and the ambulances that trundle
through the city's streets carry the insignia of the Red
Crescent.


It could be Fallujah, Basra or Tikrit. In fact, it is California.


Nestled on the US Army's Fort Irwin base deep in the Mojave
Desert, this life- size "mock Fallujah" has been used to provide
urban warfare training for more than 190,000 US soldiers deployed
in Iraq since the 2003 invasion.


It is one of nine Iraqi or Afghan replica villages that have been
built at the military installation, a vast, 3,100-square-
kilometer (1,200-square-mile) national training center that is
bigger than Luxembourg.


To heighten the realism, around 250 people of Iraqi origin have
been employed to populate the mock town, all dressed in
traditional garb and under orders to speak only in Arabic.


Nadia and Sam are playing a husband and wife involved in a game
of cards outside their home in the fictional village of "Oussal."


Sam Kalesho, 50, has lived in California since 1977 after leaving
his native Mosul in northern Iraq. He takes part in army drills
at the base every month.


"I'm doing this job to save lives in Iraq," he said. The actors
are paid 20 dollars an hour for a 12-hour shift, 14 days a month.


The drills that actors like Kalesho take part in are varied.
Today he is playing the role of the town's assistant mayor,
liasing with village officials as they meet a US Army patrol to
discuss nighttime curfew regulations.


The conversation takes place in Arabic, with an interpreter
translating back and forth between the village officials and the
US soldiers.


As the meeting wraps up, the US soldiers and a group of Iraqi
police officers head out to patrol the seemingly peaceful
streets.


But suddenly the crack of a sniper's rifle shatters the calm and
the soldiers scramble for cover, huddling behind walls and in
alleyways.


The commanding officer signals for two soldiers to investigate a
house where the sniper is believed to be holed up. But two more
shots ring out and the soldiers crumple to the floor.


They are not dead, of course, but have been ruled out of the
wargame by a sophisticated system.


Instead of bullets, the "insurgents" are firing lasers which
trigger a high- pitched whistling from sensors attached to the
soldiers' uniforms.


The only way the whistling can be stopped is by the removal of a
key from the soldiers' weapons which renders them useless, and
puts their owner out of action.


The soldiers taking part in the exercise say it provides
invaluable experience of life on the ground in Iraq. "The stress
is real and intense," says one US captain and veteran of Iraq.


"You couldn't ask for a better training. The landscape, the
climate, environment and the situations on the ground are almost
identical to what you'd find in Iraq," he adds.


In fact, the training drills are almost too realistic: army
doctors are kept on standby to treat soldiers who experience
post-traumatic stress disorder after taking part in exercises at
the facility, officials said.

