

Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah has urged members of
the Al-Sabah ruling family to stop infighting, and denied plans
he intended to suspend parliament, newspapers reported Sunday.


"These disputes are illogical, as someone is against his uncle
while sons are prepared to oppose their fathers. These disputes
must stop," Al-Watan daily quoted the emir as telling a meeting
of senior ruling family members Saturday.


"All of you want to become ministers. You are fighting and
playing out your disputes in the media," the emir said, according
to Al-Siyassah daily.


Official media in Kuwait made no reference to the meeting, which
was attended by about 200 family members aged 40 and above.


Last year, the ruling family was plunged into an internal power
struggle that resulted in an unprecedented vote by the elected
parliament to remove former emir Sheikh Saad Abdullah al-Sabah on
health grounds.


The current emir denied reports he planned to suspend parliament
or the oil-rich emirate's 1962 constitution.


"I have no intention amend or suspend the constitution or
dissolve parliament," he said.


Veteran opposition lawmaker Ahmad al-Saadun, a three-time
speaker, warned last week against such a move, telling a public
rally that suspending the constitution would be "a coup against
the regime which we will confront, regardless of the
consequences."


Another senior opposition lawmaker, Saleh al-Fadhalah, warned on
Saturday that suspending the constitution could lead to street
protests like those that erupted in the emirate about 20 years
ago.


Kuwait's constitution, the first adopted by an Arab state in the
Gulf region, was suspended twice in 1976 for five years and in
1986 for six years when parliament was also dissolved.


The Al-Sabah family has run the affairs of the oil-rich emirate
since Kuwait came into existence some 250 years ago, and Kuwaitis
have seldom questioned their continuing rule.


The emir, crown prince and the prime minister are all from the
Al-Sabah bloodline, which also controls the key ministerial
porfolios of defence, interior, oil and foreign affairs.

