

North Korea has not responded to messages asking why it missed a
key nuclear disarmament deadline and now "the ball is in their
court," the US envoy on the issue said on Sunday as he headed
home.


"Needless to say, we are not happy that the DPRK (North Korea)
has essentially missed this very important deadline," Assistant
Secretary of State Christopher Hill told reporters in Beijing.


North Korea was supposed to begin shutting down its key Yongbyon
nuclear reactor on Saturday and admit UN atomic inspectors under
an aid-for-disarmament deal reached in six-nation talks in
Beijing in February.


Hill, who arrived in China on Friday as it became apparent North
Korea might miss the deadline, said the US sent messages to
Pyongyang over the weekend seeking answers.


"We made very clear that we think it's time for them to get on
with it and invite the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency)
back in," a visibly irritated Hill said just before departing
Beijing.


However, he noted North Korea's preoccupation with a massive
birthday celebration for late former leader Kim Il-sung.


"They are celebrating a birthday there today and perhaps they
were not able to get back to us," he said.


Hill said the US messages also made clear that about 25 million
dollars in previously frozen North Korean funds in Macau bank
accounts were now unblocked.


The reactor deadline had looked shaky for weeks as Pyongyang
refused to begin shutting the facility until the money was
released.


"We sent a message over the weekend to confirm that in our view,
and frankly speaking in everyone else's view, the accounts are
open and it's their turn now. The ball is in their court," he
said.


"Why they haven't done that (taken back the funds), I just don't
know," he added.


The accounts were frozen in 2005 by US financial measures imposed
over suspicions that Macau's Banco Delta Asia was facilitating
money-laundering and counterfeiting by Pyongyang's reclusive and
cash-strapped regime.


Hill said, however, that the US would not take unilateral actions
and would honour Chinese urgings to "be patient for three to four
days."

