

Guinea's unions on Thursday welcomed the creation of a new
governent after weeks of violent unrest but the opposition was
sceptical that it heralded a new dawn for Africa's most corrupt
country.


On Wednesday Prime Minister Lansana Kouyate named a government
containing no minister from the previous administration and
composed mostly of unknown technocrats aligned to no political
party.


Kouyate was inaugurated on March 1 in line with a deal secured by
the country's powerful trade unions, replacing Eugene Camara
whose appointment sparked widespread unrest and a bloody
crackdown claiming 113 lives.


The new government faces the task of addressing Guinea's deep-
rooted economic and social problems after anger among its 9.4
million people erupted in January against the ailing President
Lansana Conte.


Trade unions received two positions in the new administration.


The main union association said it welcomed the new government,
saying it "took into account the profound aspirations of the
unions which had asked for profound changes in the structure of
the government and in its make-up."


Union official Abdoulaye Sow welcomed "the sacking of all those
who took part ... in the mismanagement of public assets."


The ruling Unity and Progress Party (PUP) was "satisfied and
confident" and "proud of the new government which reconciles
Guineans," secretary general Sekou Konate said.


But the opposition, which was not involved in setting up the new
government and which obtained no ministerial posts, attacked the
lack of experience of many of the new government.


Opposition leader Mamadou Ba predicted the new government would
fail, saying the prime minister "is surrounded by young managers
who are certainly dynamic, but totally inexperienced."


"They are going to get bogged down ... while immediate reforms
are needed," he said.


Former prime minister Sidya Toure and head of the Union of
Republican Forces (UFR), another opposition party, welcomed the
fact that "the old guard has disappeared" but said the new
administration "will find it hard to get off the ground."


He said that Guinea, which according to global watchdog
Transparency International is Africa's most corrupt counrty, was
still beset with poor governance and that powerful clans still
controlled much of the administration.


Despite vast mineral resources, including bauxite, used to
produce aluminium, the former French colony is rated among the
world's 20 poverty-stricken countries.


Late on Wednesday, Kouyate, the new prime minister, paid tribute
to those killed during the recent political unrest, saying "their
blood must serve as seeds of our hope."


He also pledged on national television a "radical break with old
practices."

