

A Saudi detainee has admitted he communicated with the lead
hijacker before the September 11, 2001 attacks and was told by
other top Al-Qaeda figures that an operation was imminent.


But Mustafa Ahmed Al Hawsawi denied he financed the Al-Qaeda
teams that commandeered four airliners, flying them into the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a rural field in the
deadliest attack ever on US soil, according to the transcript.


"In the beginning it was a surprise to me," Hawsawi said,
describing his reaction to the attacks at a March 21 military
hearing in Guatananamo Bay, Cuba. "It was mostly a surprise to
me."


According to a transcript of the closed door proceeding to review
his status as an "enemy combatant," Hawsawi said he received
17,280 dollars on the eve of the September 11 attacks from lead
hijacker Mohammed Atta and another hijacker Waleed Al-Saheri.


The transfers were wired to him in Dubai from grocery stores in
Maryland and a currency exchange booth at Logan Airport,
according to Western Union receipts presented as evidence.


Atta also sent him copies of an automated teller machine card and
checkpoint via Federal Express, according to the evidence.


"Mohammed Atta called me before I received these receipts," he
said. "There was some communication between us."


Hawsawi said he deposited the money into an account in Dubai but
did not know what the money was for.


He said he had previously met four of the September 11 hijackers
in the United Arab Emirates and had "a communication" with Atta
but had not sent them money before the attacks.


On September 10 he met with Ramzi bin al-Shibh, a top Al-Qaeda
operator, in the United Arab Emirates.


"He told me that next night there would be an operation and
therefore I should go back to Pakistan," he said. "So, I called
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and he told me to go back."


Mohammed, who also is being held at Guantanamo Bay as is bin al-
Shibh, confessed at an earlier hearing to being the mastermind of
the September 11 attacks.


Hawsawi said he and bin al-Shibh both flew to Pakistan from the
United Arab Emirates on September 11. They met up at the airport
the following day and from there went to Afghanistan, he said.


Hawsawi said he was not a member of Al-Qaeda and was not a
jihadist, but had met Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden four or
five times since 2000.

