

Greenpeace on Thursday blocked the entrance to the headquarters
of Finnish electricity company Fortum to protest against its
plans to build a sixth nuclear power reactor in the Nordic
country.


Activists from the environmental organisation blocked the
entrance of the building, located in Espoo outside Helsinki, and
unfurled a banner reading "No to Fortum's Dirty Business."


Fortum and electricity producer Teollisuuden Voima (TVO), which
owns the world's first pressurised water reactor currently under
construction in Olkiluoto in southwestern Finland, on Wednesday
announced the launch of an environmental impact assessment report
for a sixth reactor.


Once the study is completed, in about a year, TVO and Fortum are
expected to submit a proposal to the government for the
construction of a new reactor. The proposal would then be put
before parliament.


The sixth reactor could be located at the Olkiluoto site, where
there are already two other reactors in addition to the one under
construction, or in Loviisa, about 100 kilometers (60 miles) east
of Helsinki, where there are also two reactors.


The construction of the fifth reactor, Olkiluoto 3, has run into
major delays, and Greenpeace expressed surprise that the industry
was not waiting to learn from the difficulties experienced in
Olkiluoto.


The Olkiluoto 3 reactor is now expected to be operational at the
earliest in 2011, 18 months behind schedule.


"Before we can even discuss a new nuclear power plant, we need to
update estimates of what Olkiluoto 3 actually costs and what its
impacts are," Greenpeace said.


Trade and Industry Minister Mauri Pekkarinen told AFP recently
that Finland may need to build a sixth reactor in order to meet
environmental targets.


"In the EU we have very ambitious new targets to decrease our CO2
emissions by 30-35 percent. It's very difficult to manage these
challenges without utilizing nuclear power. This is the reality,"
Pekkarinen said.


Nuclear power accounts for about one quarter of Finland's
electricity production.

