

Poland will block efforts to revive the European Union's moribund
constitution if member states reject Polish proposals to revamp
the way the 27-member bloc votes, officials warned here Thursday.


"If other countries don't want to discuss our proposal, we will
be forced to take extreme measures," Ewa Osniecka-Tamecka, Polish
Secretary of State for European Affairs, was quoted as saying by
the Gazeta Wyborcza daily.


She explained that Poland would not hesitate to veto attempts to
revive the constitution if its demands to change the way voting
is carried in EU institutions are thrown out.


Warsaw has already used its veto on a string of issues since
joining the EU in 2004.


The draft constitution, which was signed in 2004 but has lain
dormant since French and Dutch voters rejected it two years ago,
defines a qualified majority decision as one carried with 55
percent of the vote and approval from at least 15 member states
representing 65 percent of the population of the EU.


The Polish proposal calls for that to be changed to require the
backing of 14 out of the 27 countries in the EU, representing 62
percent of the population of the bloc.


Poland also wants the number of votes each member state has in EU
decisions requiring a qualified majority to be calculated by
taking the square root of the country's population in millions.


In other words, Germany, which has 82 million inhabitants, would
have nine votes and Poland, which has a population of 38 million,
would have six.


The idea is crucial if all EU citizens are to have a fair say in
the running of the bloc, rather than giving those from the
biggest countries the most clout, said Marek Cichocki, a top EU
policy aide to Poland's conservative President Lech Kaczynski.


"If we are talking about equilibrium, if we want to ensure the
democratic principal that each citizen has the same influence on
decision making, we need to do something about the voting
process," Cichocki told AFP.


Because the EU constitution has been on ice since the French and
Dutch no-votes -- despite the draft text having been approved by
18 member states -- qualified majorities are currently calculated
using a very complex system outlined in the 2001 Treaty of Nice.


Under that treaty, members such as Poland and Spain were given
voting power that was disproportionately strong compared to their
populations.


The two countries initially blocked efforts to change the voting
rules under the draft constitution, but both relented in 2004 --
Poland only begrudgingly.


Warsaw opposed changes to the voting system proposed in the
constitution, saying they would reduce Poland's influence within
the bloc.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the current EU president, has
been steering efforts to revive the EU constitution.


Last weekend in Berlin, EU leaders endorsed a German-drafted
manifesto which set out the values and goals of the union and
said the rejected constitution should be replaced with a new
treaty by 2009.


On Sunday, Merkel appeared to dismiss the Polish proposal, saying
that EU negotiators had "exhausted all possibilities" on voting
reform.


Cichocki criticised that position, saying: "If Germany refuses,
it will mean that Germany prefers German interests to a possible
mandate for a renegotiation of the treaty."

