

Owen Hargreaves claims beleaguered England coach Steve McClaren
proved he is the right man for the job by delivering a crucial
half-time team-talk that inspired the face-saving victory against
Andorra.


McClaren was the target of vitriolic abuse from England fans as
unheralded Andorra managed to reach half-time level at 0-0 with
his star-studded side in Barcelona on Wednesday.


There had been demands for McClaren to resign from fans and media
before the Euro 2008 qualifier and, if England had failed to beat
Andorra, those calls would have reached a crescendo.


But Bayern Munich midfielder Hargreaves insists McClaren showed
why he should be given time to turn results around when he gave
an inspirational talk that helped motivate the England players.


Hargreaves was impressed by McClaren's message and he said: "The
manager did a great job at half-time. He found the right words to
motivate the team and make sure we did a great job in winning the
game.


"He found the right message to get the lads going. He said 'keep
going, we will get goals and create chances.' and he was very
positive.


"That's what we needed to hear from him and we responded in the
right way and did a very good job in the second half. Should he
stay? Definitely."


England had been woeful in the first half against a team made up
almost entirely of part-time players.


They responded well enough to avoid what would have been one of
the most humiliating nights in the history of English football as
two goals from Steven Gerrard and a last minute strike from David
Nugent secured a crucial win.


England still face a tough task to qualify for the Euro 2008
finals as they trail two points behind Group E leaders Croatia,
who have a game in hand.


But Hargreaves remains confident England can make it to Austria
and Switzerland.


"We won 3-0 away in difficult conditions," he said. "We have done
the job.


"We set out to get six points from these two games with Israel
and Andorra. We've got four points and kept two clean sheets and
those are the things you need to take from it and build on."

