

Britain is increasingly seeking to rally international pressure
on Tehran in the stand-off over 15 detained sailors and marines,
since its own diplomatic leverage is limited, experts said
Thursday.


The broader diplomatic strategy was embodied in efforts underway
to seek support at the UN in New York for some kind of statement
to put pressure on Tehran over the standoff, which is a week old
Friday.


"It would suggest that the initial diplomacy hasn't produced
sufficient results," Robert Lowe, an analyst with the London-
based Chatham House think tank, told AFP.


A British minister confirmed that the "new phase" in diplomacy
promised by London earlier this week was being activated.


"My colleagues are engaged in trying to mobilize world opinion as
well as European opinion, because I think there is a recognition
that what has happend is wrong," Home Secretary John Reid told
Sky News.


"The best way to deal with this is swiftly and diplomatically,"
added Reid, a key ally of Prime Minister Tony Blair.


Initially Britain's response was markedly low-key after the navy
personnel were seized in the northern Gulf last Friday, and its
allies were also noticeably discrete about rocking the diplomatic
boat.


But as the stalemate persisted, Blair vowed on Wednesday to
"ratchet up the diplomatic and international pressure," saying
Tehran faced "total isolation" unless if handed back the sailors.


London was therefore all too happy to receive expressions of
support from the European Union -- in the form of German
Chancellor Angela Markel -- and the White House.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett could also use a
meeting of EU foreign ministers in Germany this Friday to press
them to join London in freezing bilateral ties with Iran,
according to The Daily Telegraph.


"The next few days will be (used) to increase Iran's sense of
diplomatic isolation," a British government official quoted by
the Guardian newspaper said.


For many, the current showdown -- against the background of a
stand-off over Iran's nuclear programme, plus its alleged
meddling in Iraq -- is tenser than in 2004 when eight British
military personnel were seized in Iranian waters.


Tensions inside the Iranian government also make it harder to
read Tehran's policy, they added.


The communications "channels are not open in the same way that
they were before, so it's much harder this time for the British
to talk and the Iranians themselves may act tougher than they did
in 2004," Lowe said.


"It's possible it may last for some days yet," he added.


Not everyone agrees that the UN route is the best one.


Laleh Khalili, a Middle East politics lecturer at the School of
Oriental and African Studies, thinks Britain has adopted the
wrong strategy by trying to internationalize the crisis.


Because of its limited room for manoeuvre, it would be better off
working in the wings, Khalili said.


"Threats won't do any good, threats will just harden positions.
The more that they're threatened, the more they will want to show
that they're resisting an imperial projection of power," Khalili
said.


"I think quiet diplomatic interaction and in some sense trying to
show that the Iranian regime doesn't loose face is the most
important approach that they can take," she said. "They are doing
some of this."


She added: "And every time there's been talk of sanctions against
the position of Iran has hardened."


Analyst Mark Thomas said the situation is worse now under Iran's
hardline President Mahmud Ahmedinejad than three years ago under
Mohammad Khatami who was seen as a reformist "amenable" to
pursuing a dialogue with the West.


Ahmedinadjad's "power base is the Iranian Revolutionary Guard"
who are behind the holding of the British personnel, said Thomas
of the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security
Studies (RUSI) in London.


"So it's a far more worrying situation today simply for that
fact. The hardliners will have more influence today that they did
in 2004," he added.

