

A French nun at the centre of the Vatican case for beatifying
pope John Paul II prepared on Thursday to step into the limelight
after nearly two years of secrecy.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre, 45, who works as a nurse in a Paris
maternity clinic, has testified to the Vatican that she was
miraculously cured of Parkinson's disease after praying to the
late pope.


Her identity had been kept secret "due to the seriousness of the
investigation that was conducted with great serenity and out of
respect for the private life of the nun," said Archbishop Claude
Feidt of Aix-en-Provence in a statement.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre is due to hold a news conference in the
southern city of Aix-en-Provence on Friday before traveling to
Rome.


There, she is to take part in the process that will culminate
with the beatification of the late pontiff, which would put him
on the first step to sainthood.


A year-long Vatican investigation was completed last week into
the testimony provided by the nun who had suffered from
Parkinson's disease since 2001.


Father Luc-Marie Lalanne, who lead the investigation, said the
final decision as to whether a miracle had occurred rested with
Pope Benedict XVI.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre is a member of the Congregation of
Little Sisters of Catholic Maternity Wards from Puyricard, near
the southern city of Aix-en- Provence.


She has been working at the Sainte-Felicite clinic in Paris since
late 2006.


The French daily Le Figaro, who spoke to some clinic co-workers,
described her as a "dynamic and discreet little nun".


The newspaper quoted excerpts of her testimony in which she
described how in April 2005, her health had deteriorated, and she
was being "ravaged by the disease week after week. I felt myself
weakening day after day and I could not write... or if I did, it
was barely legible."


After the death of John Paul that same month, her congregation
began to pray to the late pope -- who also suffered from
Parkinson's disease, a degenerative disorder with no known cure
-- to intercede.


In June, Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre asked to be relieved of her
duties but was told by her mother superior to stay the course and
to write the name "John Paul II" on a piece of paper. The words
were illegible.


Later that evening, she retired to her room and said she "felt
compelled to write as if someone were telling me 'pick up your
pen and write'".


"The writing was clearly legible," she said. That night, she
recalled waking up "stunned that I had been able to sleep. My
body was no longer in pain."


The nun attended mass that morning and said that after emerging
from church: "I was convinced that I was cured".


She stopped treatment and on June 7, a neurologist who had been
treating her for the past four years told her that "all
indications" of the disease had disappeared.


At the end of 2006, she left Puyricard for Paris where she joined
the team of nurses at Sainte-Felicite clinic.


Convincing evidence of a miracle -- usually a medical cure with
no scientific explanation -- is essential in the beatification
process.


The Rome diocese's website carries dozens of testimonials from
individuals claiming cures at the hands of the pope, but to
qualify as a miracle the recovery must be sudden, complete and
permanent -- as well as inexplicable by doctors.

