

Security forces killed 13 Taliban in battles in southern
Afghanistan while two police and a security guard died in rebel
attacks, officials said Thursday.


The new unrest came as a man claiming to be a Taliban commander
in the southern province of Kandahar said he was holding three
nurses, a doctor and their driver hostage and would release them
for militants in prison.


More than 80 Taliban fighters attacked a compound in the southern
province of Uruzgan Thursday, sparking a pitched battle that
lasted six hours, the US-led coalition said in a statement.


Eight Taliban and an Afghan security guard were killed, it said.


Insurgents meanwhile stormed a police post north of Kandahar city
late Wednesday, provincial police chief Asmatullah Alizay told
AFP.


"Two police were martyred in the attack. Taliban have abducted
two other police as well," he said.


In a separate incident in Kandahar, NATO's International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF) said it had killed five militants west of
the city in an overnight operation.


Kandahar province is the birthplace of the Islamist Taliban and
with neighbouring Helmand sees much of an insurgency launched by
the religious movement after it was toppled from government in
2001 in a US-led offensive.


A man claiming to be a local-level Taliban commander said
meanwhile the medical team, snatched on Tuesday, were "safe and
sound."


"We are making a list of our prisoners and will release them in
exchange for our men in the government prisons," the purported
commander named Tur Jan told AFP by telephone from a secret
location.


An Italian journalist was freed by the Taliban on March 19 after
a militant commander said the government had released five high-
profile Taliban prisoners.


The government admitted it had freed some Taliban, but said it
was a one-off deal.


In another incident, Afghan border police arrested five militants
including two foreign fighters with weapons, explosives and
radios in eastern Nangarhar province, the interior ministry said.


The insurgency has grown steadily despite the efforts of an
international military deployment that has swollen to about
50,000 troops from 37 countries.


The number of incidents in January 2007 was double the same month
last year, according to a UN Security Council report released
mid-March.


The report also said the violence had resulted in more than 2,730
deaths in the six months to February this year.


It gave no details but most of the deaths are believed to be of
rebel fighters, with a NATO-led operation in September said to
have killed hundreds.


The insurgency resulted in the deaths of more than 4,000 people
last year, according to figures released in an official report.

