

Zimbabwe's main opposition party said on Thursday it would
boycott next year's presidential elections unless the poll is
held under a new constitution allowing a free and fair vote.


"We will not participate in any elections without a new
constitution," Tendai Biti, secretary general of the main faction
of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), told AFP.


The announcement comes a day before a crucial meeting by
President Robert Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party, which is expected
to endorse him as the candidate for the elections.


Proposals to extend Mugabe's term has been met with opposition
from some officials, but ruling party sources expect Mugabe to be
re-elected on Friday. Biti said it would be possible to make the
constitutional reforms before the elections which should ideally
be held between March and April.


"If there is political will, the constitution can be amended
very, very easily and elections held next year," he said.


"It does not matter if the elections are held in December 2008.
What is important is that the constitution has to be be amended
first."


In 1999, the civic movement, which later gave birth to the MDC,
rallied against Mugabe's plans to amend the constitution which
would have given him absolute power.


Biti also insisted that if the vote is to take place, it should
be monitored by both international and regional observers. Mugabe
banned Western poll monitors from observing the last presidential
in 2002.


Meanwhile, Biti told a news conference that security agents had
confiscated vital party information from its head office in
Harare during a raid on Wednesday.


"Buildings we will repair, but we will not repair the memory of
the party they took which included minutes," he said.


The agents took away nine laptops and 40 desktop computers from
its party headquarters, Biti said, adding that it would cost them
more than 100,000 US dollars to replace.


While police claim to have arrested 10 opposition activists
during the raid at the MDC offices, Biti said at least 65 of
their supporters had been picked up on Wednesday.

