

Barry Bonds pursues a bittersweet bid for baseball history while
Japanese star pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka makes his US debut in
what promises to be a landmark Major League Baseball season.


Reigning World Series champion St. Louis will play host to the
New York Mets on Sunday in the opening game of the six-month
campaign while Bonds and his San Francisco Giants are the last of
30 teams to bat, hosting San Diego on Tuesday.


Bonds has hit 734 career home runs, 22 shy of breaking Hank
Aaron's all-time US mark of 755, but Bonds' links to the BALCO
steroid scandal have made him a pariah in the eyes of many
baseball fans - a dope cheat with a tainted feat.


"What's going to happen is going to happen," Bonds told reporters
during pre- season training. "Hopefully everything works out that
we win a championship and if the record gets in the way, it gets
in the way."


Bonds, who turns 43 in July, denies knowingly taking performance-
enhancing drugs and the only other man with the answers, his
BALCO-convicted trainer Greg Anderson, sits in a jail for
refusing to talk about the matter to a grand jury.


That ongoing investigation of Bonds for perjury and tax evasion,
his lack of cooperation with baseball's own drug probe and the
lack of drug testing during most of Bonds' career have set the
stage for a messy march to a milestone.


Coming to the rescue from Japan is Matsuzaka, a 26-year-old
righthander who was a high-school legend and a hero for the Seibu
Lions before accepting a six-year contract worth 52 million
dollars to join the Boston Red Sox.


"I've had a lot of expectations my whole life but every day I
remember that the most important thing is to play ball and have
fun. I've done that so far. I will continue to do that and that
will meet the expectations," Matsuzaka said.


Matsuzaka, who powered Japan to victory in last year's inaugural
World Baseball Classic, went 108-60 for Seibu with a 2.95 earned
run average and struck out 1,355 batters in 1,402 2/3 innings.


"I feel responsibility, a little bit, but no pressure," Matsuzaka
said. "This is my rookie year. So I will stay humble."


"Dice-K" and his awe-inducing "gyroball" join a pitching staff
with Curt Schilling, Josh Beckett and knuckleballer Tim Wakefield
who could give the Sox an edge over the New York Yankees in their
American League East division feud.


The Red Sox, who spent 51.1 million dollars in bidding to talk to
Matsuzaka, are nearing New York's 180 million-dollar payroll
after inking outfielder J.D. Drew and shortstop Julio Lugo to
join sluggers Manny Ramirez and David Ortiz.


The Yankees remain a powerhouse with Derek Jeter, Alex Rodriguez,
Johnny Damon, Jason Giambi and Japan's Hideki Matsui in the field
and veteran hurlers Andy Pettite and Mike Mussina joined by
another Japanese import, Kei Igawa.


Igawa has 19 strikeouts in 17 innings of pre-season games, going
2-0 with a 2.65 earned-run average but issuing 12 walks.


"I've been pitching pretty well lately," Igawa said. "I'm just
getting into my style of pitching. I still have to work on
control for my changeup. That's the key."


Defending American League champion Detroit, whose fielding errors
cost them the World Series against St. Louis, return most of
their pennant-winning lineup and added slugger Gary Sheffield to
solidify their contender status.


The Los Angeles Angels look to be the best of the AL West with
Cleveland, the Chicago White Sox and possibly Seattle, sparked by
Japanese leadoff hitter Ichiro Suzuki, poised to challenge for
the wild-card playoff spot.


St. Louis became the losingest team in history to win a World
Series and the Cardinals, powered by Albert Pujols, will be
tested to keep their National League crown.


The Chicago Cubs, who last won a World Series in 1908, spent 300
million dollars to give new manager Lou Piniella a talented
lineup, including outfielder Alfonso Soriano and pitchers Ted
Lilly and Jason Marquis.


The New York Mets figure to lead the NL East and their powerful
bats will be aided when pitcher Pedro Martinez returns from a
shoulder injury, although Atlanta and Philadelphia could
challenge.


In the NL West, pitchers Derek Lowe and Brad Penny make Los
Angeles a favorite, but the Dodgers have not won a playoff series
since 1988 and the margin is slim over San Diego, Arizona and San
Francisco.

