

Zimbabwe's ruling party is set to endorse veteran leader Robert
Mugabe as its candidate for next year's presidential elections,
party sources said on Thursday.


The central committee of the Zimbabwe African National Union
Patriotic-Front (ZANU-PF) is to meet Friday, two days after the
politburo held "extensive and conclusive" discussions on plans to
extend the 83-year-old leader's tenure, according to party
spokesman Nathan Shamuyarira.


Sources close to the politburo said Mugabe will be named the
candidate and that no-one is likely to challenge his nomination.


The meeting will also formally state that elections will be held
next year as originally planned. The opposition has threatened to
boycott the polls unless there are constitutional reforms to
guarantee a democratic vote.


"We are supporting the old man because we need continuity. There
is a lot of unfinished business," said one party source, adding
"it's a deal done".


Mugabe, who has ruled the country since its independence in 1980
and is widely blamed for the political and economic crisis
rocking the southern African country, will see his term of office
expire next year.


Shortly after his contested re-election in 2002, Mugabe indicated
he would step down at the end of his current mandate, but last
year he changed his mind. He said that if his party nominates him
to run again for polls he would do so.


Were he to win next year's election and serve a full six-year
term, Mugabe, who is Africa's oldest head-of-state, would then be
90 years of age.


Political commentator Eldred Masunungure suggests that accepting
six more years of the longtime leader will be "disastrous" and "a
big gamble on the part of ZANU-PF".


It might "stiffen resistance (within ZANU-PF) against Mugabe," he
said.


"It will be a costly decision that may even lead to some split,"
added Masunungure.


Proposals by Mugabe's party last December to extend his tenure
met with opposition from some party elders, but one senior party
official said none among the rank-and-file is likely to challenge
Mugabe.


Tomorrow's meeting "is a formality and it's almost certain no-one
will stand up against him," said one source.


Mugabe is currently presiding over a 1,730 percent inflation
rate, shortages of basic commodities, crumbling health and
education facilities, as well as mass unemployment has led around
three million Zimbabweans to emigrate.


The opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) has vowed to
boycott elections unless a new people-driven constitution was in
place.


"We will not participate in any elections without a new
constitution," Tendai Biti, secretary general of the main faction
of the MDC, told AFP.


Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga, secretary general of a breakaway
MDC faction also vowed it would not take part in any poll under
the current constitution amended 17 times since 1980.


"Our position has been clear, we are against an election under
the current constitution," she told AFP.


Biti said it would be possible to make the constitutional reforms
before the elections which should ideally be held between March
and April.


"If there is political will, the constitution can be amended
very, very easily and elections held next year," he said.


But ZANU-PF appears unfazed by the boycott threats with
Shamuyarira vowing they will go ahead with or without the
opposition because it is a legal requirement.

