

German engineering giant Siemens, currently engulfed by a swamp
of corruption allegations, said Thursday that two current and
former managers had been arrested as part of a massive
investigation into suspected slush funds at its telecoms unit.


Prosecutors in Munich said the two men had been detained at the
beginning of the week but had since been released.


A Siemens spokesman said that one of the suspects was still
employed by the company and had therefore been suspended. The
other had left the group last year, the spokesman said.


Siemens again insisted it would cooperate with prosecutors and
would make available all necessary documentation.


Allegations of widespread corruption and embezzlement at Siemens
have been snowballing for months.


This week, a member of the group's management board, Johannes
Feldmayer, was arrested for his alleged involvement in a possible
scheme to build up a small trade union as a counterweight to the
mighty IG Metall union.


In that matter, investigators had also turned their attention to
Siemens' former finance chief and a former member of its
supervisory board, Karl-Hermann Baumann.


Baumann, Feldmayer and a number of other top managers are
suspected of being involved in alleged payments to the head of
the AUB labour organisation, Wilhelm Schelsky.


Schelsky, who was arrested last month, allegedly received 15-20
million euros (20-26 million dollars) in bogus consultancy fees.


The IG Metall union has said it is now considering suing Siemens
in the matter.


But the arrests on Thursday were part of a high-profile slush-
fund scandal, where prosecutors allege that company managers
siphoned off hundreds of millions of euros in company money to
obtain foreign contracts.


In November, German prosecutors launched a massive probe, raiding
the offices and homes of a number of Siemens employees amid
suspicions of embezzlement, bribery and tax evasion.


A number of current and former employees at the fixed networks
division, including top-ranking managers, have been held for
questioning on the matter.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.


Prosecutors put the sum held in the accounts at 200 million euros
and said some of that money may have been used as bribes to
obtain contracts abroad.


Siemens itself said it had uncovered as much as 420 million euros
in suspicious payments as part of the probe.

