

The European Union relaunched membership talks with Turkey
Thursday, which have been stalled for months over Ankara's
refusal meet its trade obligations toward Cyprus.


This new step means Turkey has cleared yet another obstacle on
its long road toward joining the bloc; a process expected to last
at least another decade and with no guarantee it will even be
allowed in at the end of it all.


The following is a chronology of the ups and frequent downs that
have marked Turkey's four-decade-long quest to enter Europe's
rich club:


- September 1963: Turkey signs an association agreement with the
European Economic Community with provisions for a gradual
lowering of customs barriers prior to full membership of the EEC,
the precursor of the European Union.


- July-August 1974: Turkey invades northern Cyprus in an act
condemned by all European countries and the European Court of
Human Rights.


- 1980-1986: The association agreement is suspended following a
military coup in Turkey.


- April 1987: Turkey applies for membership of the European
Community.


- December 1989: The European Commission rejects Turkey's
application, citing economic and political difficulties.


- November 1993: The treaty on European Union comes into effect.


- March 1995: Ankara and Brussels sign a customs union, providing
for the removal of import duties and closer economic cooperation.
The accord, which took effect in January 1996, encounters
financial difficulties, largely because of Greek reservations.


- December 12-13, 1997: The 15 EU nations confirm a decision to
invite in some eastern European countries and Cyprus, but exclude
Turkey. Ankara's human rights record is considered a major
obstacle.


- December 14, 1997: Ankara breaks off political dialogue with
the EU, in particular over issues relating to Greece and Cyprus.


- December 1999: Turkey is granted candidate status but the EU
says talks will not begin until certain democracy and human
rights conditions are met. It is, in the meantime, invited as an
observer to EU summits.


- August 2002: The Turkish parliament adopts reforms requested by
the EU, including the abolition of the death penalty and the
establishment of civil rights for the Kurdish minority.


- December 2002: EU leaders meeting in Copenhagen pledge to take
a decision in December 2004 on whether to start EU accession
negotiations with Ankara. If approved, the talks would start
"without delay," they say.


- October 6, 2004: The Commission recommends that membership
talks start, but sets tough conditions and warns that the process
could be suspended if Ankara is guilty of serious and persistent
breaches of EU standards on democracy, human rights and the rule
of law.


- November 18: Turkey rejects a key EU demand that it recognise
the government of Cyprus. Ankara also says talks on anything
short of full membership are unacceptable.


- November 30: The European parliament rejects an Austrian-backed
proposal to offer Turkey a "privileged partnership" instead of
full EU membership.


- December 5: The Turkish parliament adopts judicial reforms in
line with EU recommendations.


- December 16: EU leaders agree to open accession talks with
Turkey on October 3, 2005, but make this conditional on Ankara's
recognition of Cyprus.


- July 29, 2005: Ankara accepts a demand to extend its customs
agreement to 10 new member countries including Cyprus, but issues
a separate declaration saying this does not amount to recognition
of the Greek Cypriot government.


- October 2: EU foreign ministers meet in Luxembourg to seek a
formula that would allow membership talks to start, finally
breaking the deadlock in the early hours of October 4.


- June 12, 2006: The EU and Turkey launch the first of 35
negotiating chapters in the accession talks after overcoming
stiff Cypriot opposition.


- December 11: EU member states freeze eight negotiating chapters
because Turkey refuses to open its harbours and ports to Greek
Cypriot craft.


- January 22, 2007: The EU commits to resuming "without delay"
talks on ending the economic isolation of northern Cyprus.


- March 29: The EU and Turkey begin talks on "enterprise and
industry policy", the second chapter Ankara has opened.

