

Zimbabwe's ruling party is set Friday to endorse veteran leader
Robert Mugabe as its candidate for next year's presidential
elections despite an escalating political crisis, party sources
said.


The central committee of the Zimbabwe African National Union
Patriotic-Front (ZANU-PF) is to meet Friday, two days after the
politburo held "extensive and conclusive" discussions on plans to
extend the 83-year-old leader's tenure, according to party
spokesman Nathan Shamuyarira.


Sources close to the politburo said Mugabe will be named the
candidate and that no-one is likely to challenge his nomination.


The meeting will also formally state that elections will be held
as next year as originally planned.


"We are continuing tomorrow and we are supporting the old man
because we need continuity. There is a lot of unfinished
business," said one source, adding "it's a deal done".


Mugabe, who has ruled the country since its independence in 1980
and is widely blamed for the political and economic crisis
rocking the southern African country, will see his term of office
expire next year.


He had a few years ago indicated he would step down after that,
but last year made an about face, saying if his party nominates
him to run again for polls he would do so.


Were he to win next year's election and serve a full six-year
term, he would then be 90 years of age.


Proposals by his party last December to extend his tenure met
with opposition from some party elders, but one senior party
official said none among the rank- and-file is likely to
challenge Mugabe.


Tomorrow's meeting "is a formality and it's almost certain no-one
will stand up against him," said one source.


Mugabe is currently presiding over a 1,730 percent inflation
rate, shortages of basic commodities, crumbling health and
education facilities, as well as mass unemployment has led around
three million Zimbabweans to emigrate.


He has also o come in for widespread international condemnation
over the arrests and assaults of dozens of opposition activists
earlier this month, including party leader Morgan Tsvangirai.


Roman Catholic leaders have fingered Mugabe, Africa's longest-
serving ruler, for the crisis in Zimbabwe which they say is "in
essence a crisis of governance and a crisis of leadership".


In a pastoral letter to be read on Palm Sunday, the bishops are
to accuse the Mugabe administration of "habitually engaging in
acts and words which are hateful, disprectful, racist, corrupt,
lawless, unjust, greedy, dishonest and violent in order to cling
to the privileges of power and wealth."


Tsvangirai, who leads the main opposition Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC) hinted this week that he would not take part in the
elections unless a new people-driven constitution was in place.


But ZANU-PF appears unfazed by the boycott threats with
Shamuyarira vowing they will go ahead with or without the
opposition because it is a legal requirement.

