

Irish rock star and anti-poverty campaigner Bono was made an
honorary British knight at a ceremony in Dublin on Thursday, the
British embassy said.


Presenting the insignia on behalf of Queen Elizabeth II,
ambassador David Reddaway said it was awarded in recognition of
his services to the music industry and for his humanitarian work.


Bono -- real name Paul Hewson -- has become an honorary Knight
Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire
(KBE). The award is conferred by the queen on the advice of the
British government.


"This honorary award recognises Bono's extraordinary and
inspirational commitment to relieve global poverty and focus
international attention on the plight of Africa; the AIDS
pandemic; and the third world debt crisis," Reddaway said in a
statement.


"He has played a key role in persuading governments and
international institutions to wipe out much of the burden of
international debt owed by third world governments.


"We in the UK particularly appreciated his work alongside our G8
and European Union presidencies in 2005, which we were determined
would produce real benefits for Africa."


Reddaway also paid tribute to the singer for his contribution to
the music industry.


"U2 is not only one of the most successful bands of all time, but
have been highly effective in raising support for justice related
causes through benefit concerts and recordings."


In accepting the insignia, U2 frontman Bono thanked the
ambassador for "pinning this award on me in my home town, and the
band for not bursting my balloon."


"What a great year for an Irishman to receive an award from Great
Britain.


"The (Northern Irish) peace process has proceeded to a
conclusion, debt cancellation -- started in Great Britain -- has
put 20 million African children in school, The Happy Mondays and
Shaun Ryder have reformed, England's rugby squad entered Croke
Park to thunderous applause, silence for 'God Save The Queen',
then the Irish hammered them.


"I couldn't be more proud," said Bono.


Honorary awards are conferred on citizens of countries of which
Queen Elizabeth is not head of state but the KBE does not confer
the title "Sir", as it does to British and Commonwealth
recipients.


Ireland has no awards system so Bono's acceptance of the award
received clearance from the government of Prime Minister Bertie
Ahern.

