

Britain took the escalating crisis with Iran over 15 captured
sailors to the UN Security Council Thursday, as Tehran withdrew
an offer to free the only woman detainee.


Iran also demanded an apology from London for what it said had
been an incursion by the British navy.


A draft statement calling for the "immediate release" of the
eight sailors and seven marines was to be discussed at the UN
headquarters, said Dumisani Kumalo, the South African envoy who
is the Security Council chairman for March.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon also spoke to Iran's foreign
minister about the crisis at an Arab summit in Saudi Arabia.


The draft "deplored" the continued detention of the British
personnel and noted that they were in Iraqi waters when they were
seized at gunpoint last Friday by the Iranian navy.


Iran insists the group of sailors had entered its waters at six
different points before they were arrested.


And on Thursday it demanded Britain say sorry. "The logical
solution ... is for the British authorities to accept the
reality, present their apologies to the great Iranian people,"
armed forces spokesman General Alireza Afshar was cited as saying
by the semi-official Mehr news agency.


The head of Iran's supreme national security council, Ali
Larijani, earlier said the only woman captive, Faye Turney, would
not be released because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude.


"It was announced that a woman in the group would be freed, but
(this development) was met with an incorrect attitude. Naturally,
(the release) will be suspended and it will not take place,"
Larijani said on state television.


His announcment came a day after London said it was freezing ties
with Tehran and despite the intervention of UN chief Ban.


Larijani, who is also Iran's chief negotiator in its nuclear
dispute with western powers, threatened to pursue a "legal path"
in the crisis, which has sent oil prices to six month highs.


"Instead of sending a technical team to examine the problem, they
kicked up a media storm, announced a freeze in relations and
spoke about the Security Council. That will not resolve the
problem. They have miscalcuated," said Larijani.


Iranian state television ran footage of Turney and her 14 male
colleagues on Wednesday, in which she said they had strayed into
Iranian waters. The film provoked a furious reaction in London
which suspects she spoke under duress.


The Foreign Office reiterated its assertion that the British
personnel were in Iraqi waters when seized.


"We continue to press strongly for their immediate release," a
spokeswoman told AFP, recalling that Prime Minister Tony Blair
had said the Iranian actions were "completely unacceptable, wrong
and illegal."


In London, a British diplomatic source said the statement
distributed to UN Security Council members was part of a growing
diplomatic offensive against Tehran.


"The effect of it will be to help with a wider campaign of trying
to secure the release of our people and persuading the Iranians
to do that," the source said.


In Riyadh, the UN secretary general discussed the standoff with
Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki, although there was no
immediate sign of progress.


The French foreign ministry called in Iran's ambassador to Paris
to demand the release of the 15 British naval personnel.


The British embassy in Tehran said it still had no news on the
fate of the 15.


"We have no information for the moment about a consular visit
with the 15 sailors and the release of Faye Turney," a British
diplomat told AFP.


Iranian television showed the Britons having a meal and featured
Turney, 26, wearing a black headscarf and saying: "Obviously we
trespassed in the waters."


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors, who have kept them at a secret
location.


The crisis erupted at a time of high international tensions over
Iran's controversial nuclear programme which the West fears could
be a cover for ambitions to build atomic weapons.


Two US carrier groups are staging war games in the Gulf near
Iran.


The crisis has had a significant impact on oil prices, which rose
to more 66 dollars a barrel in London after Larijani's
announcement that Turney would not be released.

