

A top Zimbabwean official defied Western criticism of embattled
President Robert Mugabe on Thursday and said the country was
expecting economic help from southern African leaders meeting
here.


"We have no time for the EU, no time for the Americans or any
other group outside Africa except for African friends," Mugabe's
spokesman George Charamba told AFP.


Western countries, which have already slapped a broad array of
sanctions on Mugabe's regime, have increasingly criticised what
they consider to be violations of human rights in Zimbabwe,
especially since the arrest and beating of opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai earlier this month.


Leaders of the 14-member Southern African Development Community
(SADC) met Thursday in Tanzania to discuss Zimbabwe's political
and economic crisis.


"One outcome is that this (SADC) conference will take a position,
a position to make available a package on the basis on which
Zimbabwe will be able to withstand sanctions," Charamba said.


"Regional countries are saying let us set up something (a fund)
to help Zimbabwe. This is what this conference is about. We
expect a statement in solidarity with Zimbabwe."


The calling of the emergency summit led many to speculate that
the African leaders may harden their position regarding Mugabe's
regime. Up to now their criticism has remained muted, compared
with Western condemnation.


Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete, hosting the SADC summit,
denied Thursday that the African leaders would put pressure on
Mugabe.


"We do not worry about the shrill from Britain, America and the
EU (European Union). We worry about African opinion," Charamba
said.


"This is why we are subjecting ourselves to SADC judgment. We
will never go to the EU for judgment. Our ex-colonizers are our
enemies and they will have to be defeated."


Mugabe has ruled the former British colony of Zimbabwe since
independence in 1980.


Since the end of the 1990s, Mugabe has led an often-violent
campaign against his detractors and an economic policy that has
plunged his country into deep recession.

