

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana on Thursday hailed the "new
consensus" among Arab states for a Middle East peace process,
hoping it will lead to new talks with Israel and the
Palestinians.


A day after attending an Arab League summit in Riyadh, Solana
highlighted the key role of Saudi King Abdullah in reviving
efforts to unblock the situation.


"He is trying to play a leadership role to resolve this problem.
So it is a revitalisation for the Arab league that is very
important," he told the European Parliament in Brussels.


The EU is seeking a "completely new dynamic" in the Middle East
peace process via a series of meetings leading, hopefully, to
Israeli and Palestinian involvement, Solana told reporters
earlier on the airplane back from Riyadh.


He voiced his support for the recently renewed Arab peace
initiative, and will carry that message on to a meeting of EU
foreign ministers in Bremen, northern Germany, which starts
Friday.


"My message to the (EU) foreign ministers will be that the Arab
initiative is firmly back on the table and we must support it,"
Solana said. "I see a new consensus in the Arab League which we
have not seen for some time".


The revived Arab blueprint offers Israel full normalisation of
relations if it withdraws from all lands it occupied in 1967,
permits the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Solana said that while the Arab initiative was an excellent basis
for talks, wrangling is inevitable.


Israeli officials refused to accept the initiative as it
currently stands, saying negotiations were needed.


"There may have to be negotiations. Of course when you negotiate
things may change, that's what negotiations are about," Solana
said.


One of the main bones of contention will be the demand for the
return of all displaced Palestinian refugees, a measure Israel
refuses to countenance.


"We are hoping it will be possible to arrange a series of
meetings to push the process forwards," Solana said on the flight
back from the Saudi capital.


The first hoped-for meeting for the EU is with the other members
of the international Quartet engaged in the peace process -- the
United States, the United Nations and Russia -- "after Easter
sometime", Solana said.


Other European sources have spoken of the possibility of a
meeting in Egypt in the second half of April.


"Then we will seek a meeting of the Quartet with the 'Arab
Quartet' -- Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the UAE -- to broaden
the discussion," he said.


"Then maybe we have the possibility of meeting with Palestinians
and Israelis" some time later.


Solana would not be drawn on any possible timetable, and stressed
that no firm plans were yet in place.


But, he added, "if this is achieved then it is a completely new
dynamic," for the peace process.


"I don't think we are going to see in the coming months a
completed process, but we may see movement," he added.


In Riyadh, Solana met with several regional leaders including
Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas but not Prime Minister Ismail
Haniya of the militant Hamas movement, who now heads a unity
government.


"We know some government ministers well, Hamas we will not work
with," Solana told the European parliament.

