

Hopes rose Thursday that South Korea and the United States can
reach a free trade agreement before a weekend deadline, as the
two countries' leaders stressed their support for a deal.


Presidents Roh Moo-Hyun and George W. Bush in a 20-minute phone
conversation confirmed their political will to reach agreement,
Roh's spokesman said.


They "exchanged views on the remaining obstacles, including
automobiles, agriculture and textiles, and shared the view that
the deal should be concluded in a mutually beneficial manner,"
said spokesman Yoon Seung-Yong.


"The two leaders also agreed to instruct their respective
governments' FTA negotiators to be maximally flexible."


Disputes over farm trade are the biggest obstacle to a pact
which, according to some studies, could increase two-way trade by
20 percent over last year's 74 billion dollar figure.


But even before the two presidents affirmed their support, South
Korean analysts and officials were confident that talks can be
concluded this week.


"The two countries are showing a strong will to strike a deal. So
I believe the deal will be done," Lee Kyung-Tae, head of the
Korea Institute for International Economic Policy, told a radio
programme.


A trade official told AFP on condition of anonymity: "There are
growing hopes of a deal, although I cannot say definitely it will
be concluded by the deadline."


Yonhap news agency said an announcement may come early Saturday.


The deadline is 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, the last working
day of the week in Washington.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday for a 90-day
review if it is to be passed while Bush still has authority to
"fast-track" trade legislation.


South Korea's Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-Seok
reported gradual progress in settling differences over farm
tariffs. Thursday's talks dealt with beef, pork, oranges and
diary and other products.


"Today's meeting focused on how to eliminate import tariffs on
farm products. Rice was not discussed," Min told reporters.


"As we are in the process of narrowing differences, progress is
being made gradually."


South Korea says the talks could fail if the US presses it
further to open up the local rice market, while the US side wants
more access for its lucrative beef exports.


Seoul last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over fears of mad
cow disease and agreed to accept US boneless beef. But it then
rejected three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments,
in what the US called a pretext to protect Korean farmers.


The US also wants Korea to cut its 40 percent tariff on beef as
well as reduce or abolish tariffs on other farm goods. The auto
trade in which South Korea runs a huge surplus, textiles, anti-
dumping remedies and pharmaceuticals are among other main issues.


Roh, who has pushed hard for a deal despite mass street protests
and opposition from political allies, hinted there would be a
compromise.


A deal "is supposed to be mutually satisfactory. Otherwise, the
deal can't be concluded," he said Wednesday evening during a
visit to Qatar.


South Korea rose from post-war poverty to become the world's 11th
largest economy by protecting key industries, but now faces
growing Chinese competition.


Its industries and service sector will be reinvigorated by the
competition which a free trade deal would bring, Roh believes.


Korean farmers, other workers and activists say an agreement
opening the way for cheaper imports would threaten their jobs. On
Wednesday nearly 2,000 people attended a candlelight vigil in
central Seoul.

