

The White House said Thursday that the US occupation of Iraq is
"certainly not" illegitimate, hitting back at Saudi King
Abdullah's rhetorical attack on the US military presence in a
speech this week.


"When it comes to the coalition forces being in Iraq, we are
there under the UN Security Council resolutions and at the
invitation of the Iraqi people," spokeswoman Dana Perino told
reporters.


Asked whether the US military presence in Iraq was illegitimate,
as the Saudi king said Wednesday in a speech to the annual Arab
summit in Riyadh, Perino replied: "Certainly not."


Asked whether Iraq's population had endorsed the US-led
occupation, Perino said "we are there at the invitation of the
sovereign government of Iraq."


The spokeswoman said the deadly violence wracking Iraq daily was
"absolutely atrocious, absolutely, and that is why we are there,
in order to try to get the situation under control so that the
innocent Iraqis can go about their daily lives and have a hopeful
future."


On Wednesday, the Saudi king charged that "in beloved Iraq, blood
is being shed among brothers in the shadow of an illegitimate
foreign occupation and ugly sectarianism threatens civil war."


On Thursday, Iraqi President Jalal Talabani charged that the US-
led invasion of his country four years ago had turned into an
occupation with dire consequences for Iraq.


Talabani, a member of the Kurdish minority which has been largely
insulated from the violence and devastation visited on other
parts of the country since Saddam Hussein fell, was addressing
the Arab summit in the Saudi capital.


"The decision to turn the liberation of Iraq into an occupation
... with the dire consequences this had internally and the fears
(it aroused) in Arab, regional and international arenas, all this
was contrary to what Iraqi parties and national forces were
planning at the time," he said.


Asked about his comments, Perino said she had not seen them but
"clearly, the United States, the coalition forces and the Iraqis
are under a lot of pressure in order to make the situation better
in Iraq.


"And the violence, as we just talked about earlier, is reason
number one in order to get that under control, because innocent
Iraqis and those children are suffering. And we have a lot of
work to do," she said.

