

Britain on Thursday took its escalating crisis with Iran over 15
captured sailors to the UN Security Council, as Tehran said it
would not release the only woman among the detainees.


A draft statement distributed to Council members and calling for
the "immediate release" of the eight sailors and seven marines
was to be discussed at the UN headquarters, said Dumisani Kumalo,
the South African envoy who is the Security Council chairman for
March.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon also spoke to Iran's foreign
minister about the crisis at an Arab summit in Saudi Arabia.


The draft "deplored" the continued detention of the British
personnel and noted that they were in Iraqi waters when they were
seized at gunpoint last Friday by the Iranian navy.


Iran said the group of sailors had entered its waters at six
different points before they were arrested.


As London sought to ratchet up diplomatic pressure, head of
Iran's supreme national security council, Ali Larijani, said a
woman sailor among the captives, Faye Turney, would not be
released because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude.


"It was announced that a woman in the group would be freed, but
(this development) was met with an incorrect attitude. Naturally,
(the release) will be suspended and it will not take place,"
Larijani said on state television.


His announcment came a day after London said it was freezing ties
with Tehran and despite the intervention of UN chief Ban Ki-Moon.


Larijani, who is also Iran's chief negotiator in its nuclear
dispute with western powers, also threatened to pursue a "legal
path" in the crisis, which has caused global concerns and sent
oil prices to six month highs.


"Instead of sending a technical team to examine the problem, they
kicked up a media storm, announced a freeze in relations and
spoke about the Security Council. That will not resolve the
problem. They have miscalcuated."


Iranian state television ran footage of Turney and her 14 male
colleagues on Wednesday, in which she said they had strayed into
Iranian waters. The film provoked a furious reaction in London
which suspects she spoke under duress.


The Foreign Office reiterated its assertion that the British
personnel were within Iraqi waters when seized, after Iran
reportedly demanded an admission from London that it had made a
mistake.


"We continue to press strongly for their immediate release," a
spokeswoman told AFP, recalling that Prime Minister Tony Blair
had said the Iranian actions were "completely unacceptable, wrong
and illegal."


In London, a British diplomatic source said the statement
distributed to UN Security Council members was part of a growing
diplomatic offensive against Tehran.


"The effect of it will be to help with a wider campaign of trying
to secure the release of our people and persuading the Iranians
to do that," the source said.


In Riyadh, the UN secretary general discussed the standoff with
Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki, although there was no
immediate sign of progress.


The French foreign ministry called in Iran's ambassador to Paris
to demand the release of the 15 British naval personnel.


The British embassy in Tehran said it still had no news on the
fate of the 15.


"We have no information for the moment about a consular visit
with the 15 sailors and the release of Faye Turney," a British
diplomat told AFP.


"Ambassador Geoffrey Adams has asked for another visit with
foreign ministry officials. We are awaiting a response."


Iran's Arabic language Al-Alam television showed the Britons
having a meal and featured Turney, 26, wearing a black headscarf
and saying: "Obviously we trespassed in the waters."


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors, who have kept them at a secret
location.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she was "very concerned"
about the pictures and "any indication of pressure on or coercion
of our personnel" who she said were on a routine operation in
accordance with international law.


The crisis erupted at a time of high international tensions over
Iran's controversial nuclear programme which the West fears could
be a cover for ambitions to build atomic weapons.


The crisis has had a significant impact on oil prices, which rose
to more 66 dollars a barrel in London after Larijani's
announcement that Iran would not be released.

