

The US Senate on Thursday approved a  bill tying funding for the
war in Iraq to a timetable for withdrawing US troops, setting the
stage for a confrontation with President George W. Bush.


The measure seeking to force a dramatic change in US Iraq policy,
was approved by a vote along party lines of 51 to 47.


The bill sets mandatory start to a troop pullout within 120 days
of its final passage, and a guideline of March 21, 2008 for the
completion of the withdrawal of most US combat forces.


Its passage sets up a showdown with the US president, who again
on Thursday adamantly rejected any time restrictions on the
presence of US troops.


"I'll veto a bill that restricts our commanders on the ground in
Iraq, a bill that doesn't fund our troops, a bill that's got too
much spending on it," Bush said after meeting with Republican
congressional allies.


"When we've got a troop in harm's way, we expect that troop to be
fully funded. When we've got commanders making tough decisions on
the ground, we expect there to be no strings on our commanders,"
the president said.


Senate approval of the bill now puts both chambers of Congress
formally on record as calling on the president to wrap up the war
in Iraq during the course of the next year.


Democrats on Wednesday pressed the president to sit down with
lawmakers to find common ground.


"Let us sit down together to do what is right for the American
people, to address the war in Iraq, so that we can bring it to an
end and bring our troops home safely and soon," said House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi.


"The toll that it's taking in lives and limbs, the toll that it's
taking on us, the strength of our security, the toll it is taking
financially and in our reputation in the world is one that is too
great," she told a news conference.


The House of Representatives already passed last week its own 124
-billion-dollar version of the emergency spending bill with a
deadline to get troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


Democrats, who won control of Congress in November elections
marked by voter discontent over the war, were able earlier in the
week to turn back Republican attempts to strip the pullout
deadline from the spending bill.


Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid also sent Bush a
letter Wednesday, warning that his insistence that he will veto
the bill will "needlessly delay funding for our troops."


"Mr. President, this is the time to sit down and work together on
behalf of the American people and our troops," they wrote.


"We stand ready to work with you, but your threats to veto a bill
that has not even been presented to you indicate that you may not
be ready to work with us," they wrote. "We hope that is not the
case."


But Bush said any such measure would play straight into the hands
of the enemy.


"The consequences of imposing such a specific and random date for
withdrawal would be disastrous," Bush said Wednesday. "Our
enemies in Iraq would simply have to mark their calendars.


"Some Democrats believe that by delaying funding for our troops,
they can force me to accept restrictions on our commanders that I
believe would make withdrawal and defeat more likely. That's not
going to happen," he said.

