

The US Senate on Thursday approved a  bill tying funding for the
war in Iraq to a timetable for withdrawing US troops, setting the
stage for a confrontation with President George W. Bush.


The measure seeking to force a dramatic change in US Iraq policy,
was approved by a vote essentially along party lines of 51 to 47.


The bill sets a mandatory start to a troop pullout within 120
days of its final passage, and a guideline of March 21, 2008 for
the completion of the withdrawal of most US combat forces.


The legislation, and the days of debate leading up to its
passage, have set up the sharpest confrontation yet between the
US president and the Democratic-led Congress.


The Democrats swept to power in the two-chamber Congress in
November elections riding a wave of voter disgust at the Iraq
war, which has cost more than 3,200 US lives and left tens of
thousands of Iraqis dead.


Its passage sets up a showdown with the US president, who again
on Thursday adamantly rejected any time restrictions on the
presence of US troops.


"I'll veto a bill that restricts our commanders on the ground in
Iraq, a bill that doesn't fund our troops, a bill that's got too
much spending on it," Bush said after meeting with Republican
congressional allies.


"When we've got a troop in harm's way, we expect that troop to be
fully funded. When we've got commanders making tough decisions on
the ground, we expect there to be no strings on our commanders,"
the president said.


The bill prevailed in part because of key Republican defections,
including longtime Iraq war critics Chuck Hagel and Gordon Smith.


Democrats meanwhile, saw independent Democratic senator Joseph
Lieberman vote with Republicans on the measure.


Democrats were able earlier in the week to turn back Republican
attempts to strip the pullout deadline from the spending bill.


Measures on early troop withdrawal have now squeaked by in both
chambers by razor-thin margins, but Democrats conceded that they
were unlikely to muster the two-thirds vote to override a
presidential veto.


Still they said, the vote was a powerful message of the "new
direction" demanded in Iraq by the Congress and the US public.


"The American people want our troops out, out, out of Iraq," said
Democratic Senator Robert Byrd on the Senate floor after the
vote.


Senate Republicans could have blocked Tuesday's vote by using the
parliamentary stalling tactic called a "filibuster," as they did
with a vote earlier this month on a non-binding resolution
criticizing Bush's January decision to send extra troops to Iraq.


But minority leader Mitch McConnell said he decided it would be
far more expeditious to let the bill pass, then allow the
president to veto it.


"They call for a change in course, but the only change in course
they seem to approve of is retreat," the Republican leader said
Thursday.


"Nothing good can come from this bill," said McConnell, who
railed against the randomness of the March 31 deadline.


"The date isn't tied to circumstances on the ground. It's
completely arbitrary. They pulled it out of thin air. And the
terrorists have already marked it on their calendars," McConnell
said after the vote.


Democrats on Wednesday pressed the president to sit down with
lawmakers to find common ground.


"Let us sit down together to do what is right for the American
people, to address the war in Iraq, so that we can bring it to an
end and bring our troops home safely and soon," said House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi.


"The toll that it's taking in lives and limbs, the toll that it's
taking on us, the strength of our security, the toll it is taking
financially and in our reputation in the world is one that is too
great," she told a news conference.


The House of Representatives already passed last week its own 124
-billion-dollar version of the emergency spending bill with a
deadline to get troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008. It will
now be reconciled with the Senate legislation before being sent
to the White House.


Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid also sent Bush a
letter Wednesday, warning that his insistence that he will veto
the bill will "needlessly delay funding for our troops."


"We stand ready to work with you, but your threats to veto a bill
that has not even been presented to you indicate that you may not
be ready to work with us," they wrote. "We hope that is not the
case."

