

Iran said on Thursday it will not release a British woman sailor
detained with 14 male colleagues as previously promised, accusing
London of stirring up a furore over their capture.


The declaration by the head of Iran's supreme national security
council Ali Larijani came a day after London said it was freezing
ties with Tehran over the crisis.


"It was announced that a woman in the group would be freed, but
(this development) was met with an incorrect attitude. Naturally,
(the release) will be suspended and it will not take place," he
said on state television.


Iran had said on Wednesday that Faye Turney, the only woman among
the 15 sailors captured in the northern Gulf on Friday, would be
released within a day or two.


In London, the Foreign Office said "We continue to press for
their release."


Larijani, who is Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, also threatened
to pursue a "legal path" in the case, which has caused jitters
around the world and through oil markets, where prices topped 66
dollars a barrel on Thursday.


"Instead of sending a technical team to examine the problem, they
kicked up a media storm, announced a freeze in relations and
spoke about the Security Council. That will not resolve the
problem. They have miscalcuated," he said.


Iran says the sailors were in its territorial waters in the
disputed Shatt al- Arab waterway between Iran and Iraq while
Britain has presented documents to show they were picked up in
Iraqi waters.


"It is not the Stone Age, electronic equipment and GPS clearly
show their path and the fact that they were in our waters,"
Larijani said.


"The issue has to be pursued legally and it should be examined
why the detainees violated our sovereignty."


"They cannot commit a violation and force that country to go back
on its law by exploiting the media and international
institutions," he said. "If this is what they choose, the issue
will be pursued on a legal path instead of bilateral talks."


A naval official also said the sailors had entered Iranian waters
at six different points before they were arrested, the official
IRNA news agency reported.


"These 15 British troops in two boats... had entered and stayed
in Iran's territorial waters at six points before they were
arrested by the patrols," the official said.


"The coast guards have documented and filmed British forces
violating international law," the official said. "Their entry and
stay in our waters is certain according to the information
recorded on the British sailors' GPS."

