

Turkey opened a restored ancient Armenian church in the east of
the country on Thursday as part of its efforts to heal ties with
Armenia that have long been poisoned by their common bloody past.


The ceremony follows a 1.9-million-dollar (1.4-million-euro)
restoration of the Church of the Holy Cross on the island of
Akdamar -- Akhtamar in Armenian -- in the middle of a vast lake
in Van province.


Turkish officials have hailed the restoration of the 10th century
edifice as a step towards reconciliation with Armenia, though it
will not function as a religious site.


A 20-member Armenian delegation, led by Deputy Culture Minister
Gagik Gyurjian, attended Thursday's ceremony as guests of Turkish
Culture Minister Atilla Koc.


Bilateral contacts are rare between the two neighbours who have
no diplomatic relations and whose border has remained closed for
more than a decade. Turkish and Armenian officials usually meet
on the sidelines of international gatherings.


The head of Armenia's Apostolic Church, Karekin II, however
declined Ankara's invitation to attend because the restored
church was being converted into a museum and the ceremony would
be a non-religious one.


Turkey has so far ignored calls by the Armenian community to
place a cross on the church's dome and treats the edifice as a
historical monument rather than a place of worship.


In an address to the gathering, Patriarch Mesrob II, the
spiritual leader of Turkey's tiny Armenian community, urged the
Ankara government to allow periodic services at the church, which
he said would help Turkish-Armenian reconciliation and boost
regional tourism.


"A religious service to be held once a year, for example, and a
subsequent festival on Akdamar would draw people scattered
throughout the world to this island to pray," the patriarch said.
"Thus, I hope, steps can be taken that will one day establish the
atmosphere of dialogue between the two peoples that has so far
eluded us."


The patriarch said that he had sent a letter to Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan to that effect.


Queried by reporters on the patriarch's request, Koc said the
issue was not in his jurisdiction.


The Church of the Holy Cross was built between 915 and 921 during
the reign of Armenian King Gagik I of Vaspurakan and is
considered one of the most prominent examples of Armenian
architecture from that era.


It was abandoned after World War I when, Armenia claims, up to
1.5 million Armenians perished in systematic deportations and
killings by the Ottoman Turks.


Turkey, the successor of the Ottoman Empire, categorically denies
claims of genocide and says thousands of Turks and Armenians were
killed in civil strife during 1915-1917 when Armenians took up
arms for independence in eastern Anatolia and sided with Russian
troops invading the crumbling empire.


Much to Turkey's ire, many countries have recognised the killings
as genocide.


The dispute has strained Turkish-Armenian ties.


Ankara recognised Yerevan's independence in 1991 but no
diplomatic relations were established because of Armenian efforts
to have the killings internationally acknowledged as genocide.


In 1993, Turkey also shut its border with Armenia in a show of
solidarity with its close ally Azerbaijan, which was at war with
Armenia over the Nagorny- Karabakh enclave, dealing a heavy
economic blow on the impoverished nation.


Timid efforts at Turkish-Armenian reconcilitaion suffered a
setback in January when journalist Hrant Dink, one of Turkey's
most prominent ethnic  Armenians, was shot dead in Istanbul by an
ultra-nationalist teenager.

