

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier denied on
Thursday accusations that he let a German-born Turk languish in
the US-run Guantanamo Bay prison for four years.


"The former government did not extend his detention in any way.
That accusation is baseless," Steinmeier said just before
appearing before a parliamentary committee probing the case of
Murat Kurnaz.


Kurnaz, 24, claims Berlin turned down an offer to release him in
2002 after US officials found he posed no danger.


Steinmeier said it was the US authorities that decided to release
him in August 2006.


However, he conceded that he had recommended that if Kurnaz were
freed, he be released to Turkey instead of being sent back to
Germany, because he believed he posed a threat.


It was just after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United
States which had partly been plotted on German soil and the
government had every obligation to protect its people, he said.


"In these dangerous times it was of course our task to ensure
that German citizens did not come to harm. It is with this in
mind, that I asked that if he were released, it be to Turkey."


Steinmeier has been dogged by the case for more than a year. At
the time, he was serving as former chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's
chief of staff and attended a meeting with members of the German
foreign intelligence service (BND) at which Kurnaz's fate was
discussed.


The head of the BND, Ernst Uhrlau, told the committee earlier
this month that Berlin did not want Kurnaz to be sent back to
Germany in 2002 because he was deemed a security risk.


"We believed that Kurnaz was potentially dangerous," Uhrlau said.


He also denied that there had been an offer from the United
States to release him in 2002.


Kurnaz, who lives in the northern German city of Bremen, was
freed because of a lack of proof that he belonged to a terrorist
group.


He was arrested in Pakistan in 2001 and taken to Afghanistan,
before being transferred to the Guantanamo Bay prison in Cuba in
early 2002.


On Thursday morning, the parliamentary committee heard from Otto
Schily who was interior minister at the time of the alleged offer
to release Kurnaz.


Schily took some of the pressure off Steinmeier by accepting full
political responsibility for Berlin's handling of the case.


"Steinmeier had to rely on the proper, careful analysis of the
facts carried out by the interior ministry and the intelligence
services," Schily said, adding that the government's conduct had
been "perfectly correct."


Schily agreed with Uhrlau's assessment of Kurnaz, telling the
committee that "he was not harmless."


A former high-ranking US state department official said earlier
this month that despite Berlin's protests that it did not abandon
Kurnaz, the Schroeder government never requested his liberation.


The inquiry is also probing the case of Khaled el-Masri, a German
of Lebanese origin who was kidnapped by the CIA and held in
Afghanistan for five months. Masri has attempted unsuccessfully
to sue the CIA through the US courts.

