

HIV-infected women who exclusively, rather than partially,
breast-feed their baby can massively cut the risk of handing on
the AIDS virus to their infant, a study published on Friday in
The Lancet says.


The data from a trial conducted in South Africa are so compelling
that they have helped drive an overhaul of the UN's World Health
Organisation (WHO) guidelines on HIV prevention for newborns.


Promotion of breastfeeding is a major dilemma for AIDS
policymakers.


Normally, breastfeeding is universally recommended for infants,
as breast milk contains vital nutrients that cannot be found in
replacement food.


In addition, in poor countries where water supplies may be
tainted, a child can be exposed to potentially fatal diarrohea by
taking infant formula, or to malnutrition if the replacement food
is poor in vitamins and proteins.


But in the case of HIV-infected mothers, breastfeeding may also
pass on the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to the infant.


Until now, this risk of post-natal transmission has been
evaluated as being very high -- at between 10 and 20 percent.
According to the agency UNAIDS, each year more than 300,000
children become infected with the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) after they are born.


But the new paper says that the risk estimates do not distinguish
between exclusive breastfeeding and mixed feeding. Under mixed
feeding, a child is partly breastfed and partly fed with infant
formula or solid food.


Two researchers in South Africa have carried out the first trial
to focus primarily on this question.


They recruited pregnant women who attended ante-natal clinics in
KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa's worst-hit province for AIDS. Most
of the women were assigned to a group that exclusively breastfed
their babies, and were given close counselling for this.


The others were assigned either to a mixed feeding group to an
exclusively replacement feeding group, and also given support.


After three months, the HIV infection rate among the exclusively
breastfed group was 4.04 percent.


Among the mixed group, babies who received formula milk in
addition to breast milk were twice as likely to acquire HIV
infection. And those who had solid food -- typically porridge --
ran 11 times the risk of infection compared with the
breastfeeding-only group.


In addition, the death rate at three months among the exclusively
breastfed babies was 6.1 percent; among children given
replacement feeds, it was 15.1 percent.


One of the lead authors, Nigel Rollins of the University of
KwaZulu-Natal, said the reasons why mixed feeding posed a greater
risk of infection were open to investigation.


One mooted cause is that foreign proteins found in formula milk
increase the vulnerability of the infant gut to HIV, he said.


A total of 1,372 infants took part in the study, 83 percent of
whom were in the exclusive breast-feeding group.


The paper is one of three large studies that were scrutinised by
a WHO expert panel last October that recommended changes to the
WHO's breastfeeding guidelines established in 2000.


The guidelines call for HIV-infected women to exclusively breast-
feed their baby for the first six months unless good, safe,
affordable replacement feed is available.


When this replacement feeding is available, the mother must
switch over completely and stop breastfeeding in order to block
the infection risk.

