

Pakistani tribesmen fought fresh battles with foreign Al-Qaeda
militants Thursday, leaving one tribesman dead and shattering a
week-old ceasefire in a troubled area bordering Afghanistan.


Pakistan, a key US ally, has said that clashes in South
Waziristan in which 160 people died last week, mostly militants,
show the success of its policy of encouraging tribes to drive out
foreigners who fled Afghanistan in 2001.


Security officials said Uzbek and Chechen insurgents traded heavy
weapons fire overnight Wednesday with local pro-government tribes
in the mountainous region bordering Afghanistan.


"Fighting has started again between local tribesmen and
foreigners and they are using heavy weapons and small arms in the
Azam Warsak and Kalusha areas," a local government source said.


One pro-government tribesman was killed and three were injured,
they said.


The same areas have been wracked by violence since March 19 when
ex-Taliban commander Mullah Nazir, who the government says has
crossed to its side, ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir
Yuldashev to disarm.


Yuldashev was formerly a close confidant of Al-Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden, officials say.


A local tribal commander said that fighting would continue until
all foreign militants were expelled from South Waziristan despite
a deal brokered last week by Taliban militants.


"Though the jirga (tribal council) is still trying to negotiate a
ceasefire, our position remains firm that all Uzbek militants
should leave the area," Haji Sharif, a supporter of Nazir told
AFP.


Separately, troops enforced a tense curfew for a second day in
the northwestern town of Tank -- which is not in the tribal belt
but is next to South Waziristan -- following clashes between
Taliban and security forces.


A man was hit and killed by a car in Tank after local residents
began fleeing in panic after seeing the soldiers on patrol, while
several families were fleeing the area because of the unrest,
witnesses said.


Ten people were arrested after violating the curfew, officials
said, while authorities announced a two-hour break in the curfew
to allow people to buy food and supplies.


A Taliban leader and a policeman were killed in Tank on Monday
when militant recruiters tried to enter a high school. Gunmen
kidnapped the school's principal the next day.


A soldier and two other people were killed in fierce rocket
battles the following day.

