

Rookie Englishman Lewis Hamilton drove the fastest lap Thursday
in wet conditions on the third day of testing for the Formula One
Malaysia Grand Prix.


Hamilton, who struggled Wednesday on the wide Sepang circuit,
completed 57 laps, setting the best time of 1min 35.918sec
towards the end of the cloudy afternoon session.


The 22-year-old, who finished third in his debut race this month,
blew the engine of his Mercedes-powered McLaren in the morning
session before upstaging more experienced rivals including
Ferrari's Felipe Massa, Honda's Jenson Button and Toyota's Ralf
Schumacher in the afternoon.


However, Hamilton was seven-tenths of a second off the pace
recorded Wednesday by Kimi Raikkonen in his Ferrari.


Hamilton played out his dreams to finish behind Ferrari's Kimi
Raikkonen and team-mate Fernando Alonso in his first Formula One
drive at the season-opening Australian Grand Prix.


It was the best debut by an Englishman since Mike Parkes at the
1966 French Grand Prix.


Coupled with Alonso's second place, Hamilton helped McLaren,
without a constructors' title since 1998, to lead Ferrari by one
point as the 17-race season got under way.


Second Ferrari driver Massa, who tested his F1 car for the first
time here, was only fifth fastest but said he was satisfied with
his performance.


"It was good. I did not face any gearbox problems," he told
reporters.


Mark Webber, who took over from David Coulthard at Red Bull, was
second fastest two-tenths off Hamilton's pace with a time of
1:36.138.


Ralf Schumacher set the third best time for Toyota in 1:36.700,
while Tonio Liuzzi clocked an impressive fourth for Scuderia Toro
Rosso.


Nick Heidfeld suffered a major oil leak and subsequent fire on
his BMW Sauber F1.07 and was just ninth fastest ahead of Heikki
Kovalainen in the Renault.


Testing was extended for a further day into Friday after
overnight rain and a shower during the late session gave the
teams little opportunity for dry testing.


The Malaysian Grand Prix is on April 8 followed by the Bahrain
Grand Prix on April 15.

