

Greece on Thursday showcased four ancient masterpieces returned
by the J. Paul Getty Museum after 12 years of negotiation,
completing a deal hailed by Athens as a major blow to the illegal
trafficking of antiquities.


"Today is a day of great joy," said Greek Prime Minister Costas
Karamanlis, heading a ceremony at the National Archaeological
Museum to present the final two items, an elaborate Hellenistic-
era gold funerary wreath and a sixth-century marble woman's
torso, which arrived last week.


"We welcome to the National Museum, the place where they belong,
two very important ancient works of art illegally exported from
the country," he said.


The other two artefacts, a fifth-century BC engraved funeral
stele and a late fifth-century BC engraved sculpture, were
returned in August.


All four had been claimed by Greece on the grounds of illegal
provenance since 1995.


Athens pressed its demand last year after the Getty agreed to
return a number of items to Italy, and the museum agreed after
seeing evidence from the Greek culture ministry.


"This sends a strong message...on our determination to protect
our national heritage," said Culture Minister George Voulgarakis.


Karamanlis said the four items' return, along with the imminent
completion of a new Acropolis Museum, would permit Greece to
mount a "decisive" claim for the collection of marble sculptures
from the Parthenon which Athens has campaigned to bring back from
the British Museum in London for two decades.


The sculptures depicting gods, men and monsters were removed from
the ancient temple by agents of British ambassador Lord Elgin in
1806-11, at a time when Greece was part of the Ottoman Empire.


The ancient gold wreath is part of Greece's case against a former
Getty museum curator, Marion True, who is also under
investigation over 29 undeclared antiquities found last year in a
Greek island villa she owns.


The Getty insists it never knowingly bought illegally acquired
artefacts.


Greece this week signed a memorandum of cooperation with France
against antiquity smuggling, and plans similar agreements with
Italy and China, Karamanlis said.

