

Turkey on Thursday opened a restored ancient Armenian church in
the east of the country as part of efforts to heal bilateral ties
poisoned by their common bloody past.


The ceremony, which was televised on Turkish news channels,
follows a 1.9 -million-dollar (1.4-million-euro) restoration of
the Church of the Holy Cross on the island of Akdamar -- Akhtamar
in Armenian -- in the middle of a vast lake in Van province.


Turkish officials have hailed the restoration of the 10th century
edifice as a step towards reconciliation with Armenia.


A 20-member Armenian delegation, led by Deputy Culture Minister
Gagik Gyurjian, attended Thursday's ceremony as guests of the
Turkish Culture Minister Atilla Koc.


Bilateral contacts are rare between the two neighbours who have
no diplomatic relations and whose border has remained closed for
more than a decade.


Patriarch Mesrob II, the spiritual leader of Turkey's tiny
Armenian community was also present at the ceremony.


But the head of Armenia's Apostolic Church, Karekin II, declined
Ankara's invitation to attend because the restored church is
being converted into a museum and the ceremony would be non-
religious.


Turkey has so far ignored calls by the Armenian community to
place a cross on the church's dome.


The Church of the Holy Cross was built between 915 and 921 during
the reign of Armenian King Gagik I of Vaspurakan and is seen as
one of the most prominent examples of Armenian architecture from
that era.


It was abandoned after World War I when, Armenia claims, up to
1.5 million Armenians perished in systematic deportations and
killings by the Ottoman Turks.


Turkey, the successor of the Ottoman Empire, categorically denies
claims of genocide and says thousands of Turks and Armenians were
killed in civil strife during 1915-1917 when Armenians took up
arms for independence in eastern Anatolia and sided with Russian
troops invading the crumbling empire.


Much to Turkey's ire, many countries have recognised the killings
as genocide.


Timid efforts at Turkish-Armenian reconcilitaion suffered a
setback in January when journalist Hrant Dink, one of Turkey's
most prominent ethnic  Armenians, was shot dead in Istanbul by an
ultra-nationalist teenager.

