

The Czech press stepped up the pressure for the country's veteran
manager, Karel Bruckner, to resign on Thursday after the team's
uninspiring 1-0 victory against lowly Cyprus pon Wednesday.


The team had previously lost at home to Germany on Saturday in
another Euro-2008 qualifier.


"It is time to start again from zero without Bruckner," was the
headline in the daily Lidove Noviny. "The manager, Karel
Bruckner, should take responsibility for the two bungled
matches," it added.


"Something must change. Only the arrival of a new manager can
reverse the train of events," the paper continued.


"Thank you, leave," was the verdict of both the daily Dnes and
top selling Blesk in an allusion to a popular movement in 1999
aimed at encouraging a changeover in the political leadership of
the country.


Newspapers above all reproach 67 year old Bruckner for always
preferring the same group of players and being unable to impose
discipline on some of them.


The whole squad was fined 1 million koruna (35,750 euros, 47,715
dollars) after several players celebrated with a drinking session
into the early hours of Sunday morning, hours after their 2-1
home defeat against Germany.


The popular daily, SIP, alleged on Monday that prostitutes took
part in the celebrations to mark the birthday of one of the
players.


"A victory after a party," ironically commented Thursday's
edition of the daily Sport, after Wednesday's unconvincing win
against Cyprus where the visitors squandered chances to create a
shock by equalising in the late stages.


"Bruckner, next time let the prostitutes play," added the popular
daily, Aha.


The Czech manager responded defiantly to the latest attacks amnd
calls for his resignation.


"That (resignation) is not on the agenda," he told the daily
Sport on Thursday. "I do not want to react with too much haste,"
he added.


Bruckner has been manager of the Czech team since 2002. He led
them to the semi- finals of the 2004 European Championships in
Portugal and qualified the country for the World Cup for the
first time last year, only to fail to get past the first round
following defeats against Ghana and Italy.

