

Female students at an Islamic school in the Pakistani capital
freed an alleged brothel owner Thursday after the woman donned a
burqa and promised to shun "immoral acts."


The students at the madrassa in Islamabad had kidnapped the
woman, identified only as Shamim, along with her daughter and a
daughter-in-law on Tuesday, sparking a standoff with the
government.


Clad in an identical black burqa to the ones worn by the
students, the woman was brought before the media at the Jamia
Hafsa school and read out a confession.


"I seek forgiveness for the sins that I have committed and
declare I will live like a true Muslim and preacher of religion,"
Shamim said in the signed statement.


"I do confess getting involved in certain acts, which are
considered moral crimes, with my house being misused for the
purpose," she said.


She denied that she had been forced to sign the statement but
said that there were "several men, who tied and tortured me
before I arrived here. But the attitude of the female students
was exemplary."


The kidnap sparked tensions in Islamabad when police arrested two
female teachers from the school on Wednesday. Baton-wielding
students then abducted two passing policemen.


The police officers and the teachers were freed late Wednesday.


But the three women kidnapped from the "vice den" were held
overnight and were only freed after a marathon meeting of
mullahs, said the vice principal of the seminary, Abdul Rashid
Ghazi.


Earlier Ghazi had said that Shamim and her relatives would not be
freed unless police charge them as criminals. The police said
they could not lodge a case against the women without any
evidence.


The case has raised questions about the Pakistani government's
willingness to tackle the hardline school in the centre of the
capital, following a series of incidents.


Many of the school's female students are still occupying a nearby
government-run children's library after launching a protest in
January against plans to demolish a mosque in the capital.


But deputy information minister Tariq Azeem denied the government
had showed weakness in its handling of the school, saying it was
in talks to remove the protesters from the library.


"No one will be allowed to take the law into their own hands in
the name of Islam," he told Geo television.

