

A suicide bomber blew himself up among troops resting near an
army base in Pakistan Thursday, killing a soldier, as a wave of
Islamist violence gripped several parts of the key US ally.


The blast in eastern Pakistan came as a week-old ceasefire broke
down between warring tribesemen and Al-Qaeda rebels in a region
bordering Afghanistan, while troops enforced a curfew in a
Taliban-plagued town.


Meanwhile female students at a radical Muslim school in Islamabad
released a brothel owner and two of her relatives, ending a tense
standoff with the government.


Analysts say the incidents show the spread of "Talibanisation"
from Pakistan's tribal areas, posing a serious challenge to the
government of President Pervez Musharraf, who backs the US-led
"war on terror."


The suicide attacker struck near a driver training centre at the
garrison town of Kharian, killing one soldier and wounding seven,
military spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad said.


"It was a suicide bombing," Arshad told AFP. "The soldiers were
sitting near their vehicle outside the garrison area doing some
work and the bomber came and blew himself up."


It was the eighth in a series of suicide blasts that have rocked
Pakistan this year leaving scores of people dead, mostly blamed
on Pakistani Taliban militants based in the troubled South
Waziristan tribal area.


One pro-government tribesman was killed and three were injured in
South Waziristan on Thursday as fresh fighting shattered a truce
between local tribes and Uzbek and Chechen Al-Qaeda rebels.


Another two Uzbeks were arrested when tribesmen overran a
checkpoint.


Clashes there last week left 160 people dead after a former
Taliban chief, who the government says has crossed to its side,
ordered foreign Islamists led by top Uzbek militant Tahir
Yuldashev to disarm.


Pakistan says the clashes show the success of its policy of
encouraging tribes to drive out foreigners who fled Afghanistan
after the 2002 fall of the Taliban, instead of using army
operations that alienate local people.


A "mentally disturbed" soldier from a local tribal militia shot
and seriously wounded two colleagues in Wana, the main town in
South Waziristan, officials said.


Troops also enforced a tense curfew for a second day in the town
of Tank -- which is not in the tribal belt but is next to South
Waziristan -- following clashes between Taliban and security
forces.


A man was hit and killed by a car in Tank when residents fled in
panic from an army patrol. Several families fled the area and 10
people were arrested for violating the curfew, officials said.


A Taliban leader and a policeman were killed in Tank on Monday
when militant recruiters tried to enter a high school. Gunmen
kidnapped the school's principal the next day and a soldier and
two other people died on Wednesday.


Meanwhile pro-Taliban woman students in Islamabad claimed victory
against the government after freeing an alleged brothel boss,
named only as Shamim, whom they had kidnapped with two female
relatives on Tuesday.


The woman appeared before the media at the students' madrassa
wearing a burqa and read out a confession in which she promised
to shun "immoral acts."


The kidnap sparked tensions when police arrested two female
teachers from the school on Wednesday. Baton-wielding students
then abducted two passing policemen. The police officers and the
teachers were freed late Wednesday.

