

World leaders must speak out to help pull Zimbabwe out of a
political and economic quagmire, former US Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright and Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu said
Thursday.


"Given (President Robert) Mugabe's consistent unwillingness to
respect the legitimate complaints of his people, this is not the
time for silent diplomacy," the authors wrote in an opinion piece
in the Washington Post.


"This is the time to speak out."


Mugabe, who has ruled the country since its independence in 1980,
is widely blamed for the political and economic crisis rocking
the southern African country.


"Zimbabwe, once Africa's breadbasket, has become under Mugabe, a
basket case," the two charged.


"As in South Africa, the solution to the econommic, political and
social quagmire in Zimbabwe is open dialogue."


Zimbabwe has a 1,730 percent inflation rate, a shortage of basic
commodities, a crumbling health care system and suffers massive
unemployment.


Mugabe has been widely criticized over the arrests and assaults
of dozens of opposition activists earlier this month, including
the leader of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC), Morgan Tsvangirai.


On Tuesday and Wednesday 35 people were arrested after raids on
the MDC headquarters.


The authors say it is "especially important" for the African
Union and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to
"raise their voices, for they have the most influence and can
hardly be accused of interventionism."


An SADC summit got under way Thursday in Dar-Es-Salaam, with the
Zimbabwe crisis a top agenda item.


"As the examples of Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr. and Nelson
Mandela remind us, it is never inappropriate to speak on behalf
of justice," Albright and Tutu wrote.


"With crisis comes opportunity. This is the moment for political
and civic leaders in Zimbabwe to unify around a common goal: a
peaceful and democratic transition," they wrote.


Reformers in Zimbabwe can show "that there is a viable and
patriotic alternative to the repressive and misguided leadership
under which the country has suffered for so long."


Tutu who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984, was Cape Town
archbishop 1986-1996 and headed South Africa's Truth and
Reconciliation Commission.


Albright was secretary of state 1997-2001 under President Bill
Clinton.

