

A Macau bank account holder at the centre of a US-North Korea
financial row indicated on Thursday steps were being taken that
could cast doubt on a deal to halt Pyongyang's nuclear arms
programmes.


The owner of Pyongyang-based Daedong Credit Bank said the Macau
Monetary Authority has guaranteed that its accounts in the
Chinese territory would not be handed over to North Korea's
government.


Daedong's funds are among the roughly 25 million dollars frozen
in Macau's Banco Delta Asia that North Korea is demanding be
returned to Pyongyang before it will honour a commitment made in
February to scrap its nuclear programme, the International Herald
Tribune reported this week.


"The funds belonging to Daedong's customers in its account at
(Banco Delta Asia) are fully safeguarded," said Colin McAskill,
head of the UK-based Chosun Fund, which has purchased Daedong
Credit Bank, in an emailed statment received by AFP.


The Tribune had reported Daedong has about 7 million dollars tied
up because of the row.


The Macau Monetary Authority could not be reached for comment and
McAskill said he would make no further statements until the
dispute is fully resolved.


A US Treasury Department delegation arrived in Beijing this week
for talks with Chinese and North Korean officials on the funds,
which were frozen in Banco Delta Asia in 2005 by US sanctions.


The sanctions were triggered by suspicions the bank was
laundering money and handling counterfeiting for North Korea.


The US recently agreed to allow the transfer of the funds to
North Korea but the plan hit a snag when no bank was willing to
handle the transaction, causing Pyongyang's envoy to walk out of
a fresh round of nuclear talks last week.


The transfer was further complicated by objections from McAskill,
who insists Daedong's funds belong to legitimate businesses, the
International Herald Tribune reported.


McAskill's statement said Daedong's funds would remain in Macau
until the Beijing negotiations reach a conclusion.


No information on the talks has been released yet.

