

India's Supreme Court froze Thursday a controversial affirmative
action plan to more than double places in elite medical,
engineering and management colleges for "backward castes."


The ruling was a stunning blow to the ruling Congress coalition,
which pushed the measure to help fulfil an election pledge to
help the disadvantaged.    The government had based its scheme to
more than double "reservation quotas" in the prestigious state-
run schools to nearly 50 percent on figures from a 1931 census --
taken when India and Pakistan were still one country and the last
to still divide people according to India's ancient caste system.


The apex court ruled the outdated data meant that the legislation
passed by parliament last year was fundamentally flawed.


"The government has failed to provide any authentic or reliable
data to justify its policy of reservation," Justice Arijit
Pasayat and Justice L.S. Panta said in their ruling.


The judges said it was "desirable to put on hold" the quota plan
which was slated to take effect with this year's applications to
the colleges, for which competition is cut-throat.


However, the architect of the plan, Human Resource Development
Minister Arjun Singh, vowed the government would "do whatever is
needed constitutionally, legally and socially" to ensure the
measure was implemented.


Under a constitutional provision to bring victims of the most
severe discrimination into the mainstream, India already sets
aside 22.5 percent of university places and jobs for tribes and
castes such as the dalits, once known as untouchables.


Under its new law, the government was planning to jack up the
quota for universities to 49.5 percent to embrace the "other
backward castes" -- or OBCs -- who are one rung up on India's
complex social ladder.


The court recognised the state's right to pass legislation to
help the disadvantaged but ruled "unless and until it is
determined by the centre who is socially and economically
backward, this act cannot really be given effect."


Champions of the plan say it is needed to give lower castes a
better chance at quality education and ensure India's nine
percent economic growth is "inclusive." They compare it to US
affirmative action programmes.


But critics say the move is a "naked" vote grab that could lower
academic standards, and argue it would be better for the
government to give a decent basic education to the legions of
people who have poor schools or no schools.


The quota plan had triggered widespread protests and revived
memories of a similar, bitter row in the early 1990s that led to
violence, student suicides and the fall of a government.


The court ruling was immediately condemned as "retrograde" by the
communists who prop up the government in parliament.


"It will not help in the implementation of policies for
establishment of social justice," Communist Party of India
national secretary D. Raja said.


But an umbrella student group called Youth for Equality, which
spearheaded the battle against the bill, hailed the ruling.


"It is a victory of the people and a victory for the common man
against politicians, who had tried to divide the society on the
basis of caste," the group said.


The Supreme Court said it would hear the matter again in August.

