

Faye Turney, the 26-year-old British sailor whose fate was thrown
into further uncertainty Thursday, has become the human face of
the mounting Britain-Iran stand-off.


London had hoped the young mother would be released shortly,
after a pledge by Iran's foreign minister Wednesday -- but Tehran
changed its mind Thursday saying she would not be freed because
of Britain's "incorrect attitude."


Turney, detained last Friday along with 14 male colleagues, is
widely described as "chatty" and "outgoing" by those who know her
-- contrasting starkly with the grim video released by Tehran.


Pictures of Turney, whose husband Adam and three-year-old
daughter Molly await news of her fate, were splashed on virtually
every front page a day after the Islamic republic issued the
footage.


In it she appears highly strained, smoking tensely as she says
that she and her 14 male colleagues "obviously" strayed into
Iranian waters last Friday, when they were seized at gunpoint by
Iranian naval vessels.


"This was not the chatty girl I met," said a journalist for The
Guardian newspaper, who along with many other reporters, met
Turney in the days before she was captured.


A letter written to her parents, released by Iranian authorities,
also gives the impression of a forthright, family-loving young
woman -- albeit one under severe pressure.


"Please don't worry about me. I'm staying strong. Hopefully it
won't be long till I'm home to get ready for Molly's birthday
party and with a present from the Iranian people," she wrote.


"Look after everyone for me, especially Adam and Molly, I love
you all more than you will ever know."


Turney, whose husband -- also in the Royal Navy -- is looking
after their daughter at home in the port city of Plymouth,
southwest England, was the only woman among the 15 seized at
gunpoint by Iranian Revolutionary Guards last Friday.


The British government and media commentators have furiously
condemned the way she has been "paraded" on Iranian television,
dressed in an Islamic headscarf.


In a series of interviews before her capture, Turney -- who
Tehran on Wednesday promised to release shortly -- notably said
she always understood the risks she was taking when she joined
the armed services.


"My parents made sure I was under no illusions that I could, and
can, go to war at any time," Turney said in comments broadcast by
the BBC.


"Sometimes it can be like a cruise being in the navy but
sometimes you may be called upon," she said. "And if you are,
then you just have to get on with it, that's what you're paid
for."


There was confusion Thursday over whether Tehran would make good
on its pledge to release her, amid reports it was demanding that
Britain admit the British sailors and marines were in Iranian
waters when seized.


This would be difficult to do, since the British Ministry of
Defence unveiled maps and other evidence Wednesday which it said
showed they were well within Iraqi waters.


Turney also said she had never expected or demanded special
attention for being a woman.


"I've coped and completed the job just as well as a man would
have done it," she was cited by The Daily Telegraph newspaper as
saying.


Turney told The Independent newspaper that she was in the navy to
provide for her daughter.


"It's a shame I'm missing that but she's a top girl and will grow
up to be a very reliable, independent, strong young woman, which
is exactly what I want for her."

