

London's 2012 Olympics could be the "greatest Games ever",
according to the former leader of the Sydney edition of the
event.


Sandy Holloway was chief executive of the Sydney Olympics in 2000
that were widely praised as the best in the history of Games.


But Holloway, who worked for the International Olympic Committee
on the panel shortlisting the bids for 2012, has been so
impressed by the preparations for the London Games that he has
believes they will rival even Sydney.


Holloway, speaking on a visit to London, said: "I genuinely think
the London Games could be the best Games ever, the first to knock
Sydney off its pedestal.


"The reasons are that London is a remarkable mixture of grandeur
and hip.


"You have the capacity to put on tremendous ceremony but also to
have fun, and if you put up these live (big screen) sites and are
blessed with good weather then you will have the Games staged in
a city as dramatic as Sydney but within a tremendous historical
context.


"It is going to be a totally memorable Games. You are also going
to have the best legacy in Olympic history and, in terms of its
ambitiousness, that will surpass Sydney's legacy in scale and
social importance."


The rising costs of building the venues for the Games in London
has been a cause of controversy after Olympics minister Tessa
Jowell recently announced a total funding package of 9.3 billion
pounds.


But Holloway is adamant that the long-term benefits of the Games
to London more than justify the vast financial investment. He
said: "Will it be worth the money? In my opinion, definitely yes.


"You don't often get a chance in the history of a city to grab a
vast area of deprivation and grasp the attention of government,
the business community and the international community and
wrestle the problem to the ground.


"Imagine putting on the Olympics and nothing was left behind
afterwards, people would say 'Jesus, that was an opportunity
lost'.


"We did a re-budget in early 1997, three years before the Sydney
Games. You are doing it even earlier, which is sensible. I may be
the only person around who is utterly unsurprised by the need to
do a new budget after the bid.


"For a start, the cost of regeneration had not been costed in the
bid. I believe that it is a sensible and conservative budget,
especially with that huge contingency fund which may end up
without a penny from it being spent."

