

Chinese President Hu Jintao meets Wednesday with the leader of
Russia's energy- rich Tatarstan region, one day after signing
four billion dollars' worth of trade deals on his visit focusing
on securing new energy sources.


Hu flew on Tuesday evening to Tatarstan, a mainly Muslim province
in central Russia that has extensive oil reserves, and was to
meet there on Wednesday with the region's leader Mintimir
Shaimiyev.


The Chinese president began his three-day trip to Russia on
Monday by securing an agreement for increased deliveries of
Russian oil by rail.


Those deliveries should jump from the 11 million tonnes shipped
in 2006 to 15 million tonnes per year, according to Russian
Railways head Vladimir Yakunin.


China received a total of 15 million tonnes of Russian oil last
year, and analysts say it is eager to secure guarantees for more.


On Tuesday, Hu and Russian President Vladimir Putin oversaw the
signing of four billion dollars of trade deals.


"For Russia, China has always been one of the most important
economic partners in the world, and throughout recent years our
business ties have steadily grown and strengthened," Putin said,
speaking at the opening of China's biggest-ever trade fair in a
foreign country.


The presidents oversaw the signing of 21 contracts, including an
agreement by Russian state oil company Rosneft to supply jet fuel
to China and long-term export contracts for Russian steel
products.


Among the biggest contracts was a 460-million-dollar (345
-million-euro) agreement by Russia's Novolipetsk Steel to supply
94,000 tonnes of steel to Chinese electrical parts maker Tebian
Electric Apparatus Stock from 2007-2011.


Nearly 200 Chinese companies showcased products at the fair,
which Putin used to underline Russia's interest in developing its
own high-tech sector with Chinese help.


Other agreements were signed between Russian and Chinese banks
and space agencies.


Meeting Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov on Monday morning, Hu
said: "Both sides should use this chance to strengthen trust in
each other in all ways, to deepen practical cooperation."


Hu and Putin also talked up diplomatic ties between their
countries, which have taken closely aligned positions in talks
meant to end North Korea's nuclear weapons programme and stem
Iran's nuclear ambitions.


In a joint declaration on Monday, the two presidents said the
standoff over Iran's nuclear programme "should be resolved
exclusively in a peaceful way," and welcomed the "positive
dynamic" in six-party talks aimed at curbing North Korea's
nuclear programme.


But there were grumbles in Russia's press about the fast growth
of Chinese imports to Russia.


According to Russian customs service statistics, Russian exports
to China grew by 21 percent last year to equal 16 billion
dollars, while Chinese imports to Russia grew 80 percent to reach
13 billion dollars.


"Russia... can't be happy that it has nothing to offer except raw
materials and weapons," the RBK business daily said.


Analyst Timofei Bordachev, of the journal Russia in Global
Affairs, commented that "while the price of oil is high, Russia
has no interest in developing its industrial sectors such as
cars, aviation, or even arms and is able to play in the same
weight category as China."

