

World oil prices dipped Tuesday on modest profit-taking after a
surge towards 65 dollars a barrel in London amid simmering
political tensions over Iran.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery fell 11 cents
to 64.30 dollars a barrel in electronic deals. Earlier Tuesday it
reached 64.64 dollars a barrel, the highest level since December
4.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 37 cents to 62.54 dollars in floor trading.


"What is happening now is that in the absence of any fresh
impetus we are seeing a bit of a dip," Bank of Ireland analyst
Paul Harris said.


"We have been through one relevant resistance level at 63
dollars, so we would expect to see some consolidation before we
push towards 65.50-66.00 dollars," he added.


Industry experts say Iran could disrupt its oil exports should
tensions surrounding the Islamic Republic's nuclear programme
escalate.


"We see some profit-taking after the gains (on Monday)," added
Daiwa Securities analyst Mark Pervan in Melbourne.


"The market has certainly pushed oil prices to a high due to the
Iranian tension. Heightened risk in the Middle East has put a
high floor in oil prices," he added.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, rejected on
Tuesday UN Security Council conditions that it suspend uranium
enrichment in return for talks on its controversial nuclear
programme.


"If suspending uranium enrichment is a prior condition for
negotiations, it is impossible to respond positively to this,"
Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostafavi said in remarks reported
by the ISNA student news agency.


On Saturday the Security Council unanimously approved further
sanctions against Iran for persistently refusing to stop
enriching uranium.


The international community has demanded that Iran suspend
enrichment, which it fears could be used to make nuclear weapons.
Tehran rejects the demand, insisting its nuclear programme is for
peaceful energy purposes.


The imposition of sanctions followed word on Friday that Iran had
seized 15 British naval personnel in the Gulf, a move which also
upset the oil market.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran Tuesday that
efforts to secure the release of 15 sailors would enter a
"different phase" if diplomatic efforts failed.


Britain has sought to keep up pressure on Iran which has rejected
growing international calls for their release. Iran says they had
entered its territorial waters illegally and the BBC, citing
sources, said they were now being held in Tehran, where they were
being interrogated by the members of the Revolutionary Guards.


Aside from keeping an eye on developments in Iran, dealers looked
ahead to Wednesday's crucial weekly update on energy inventories
in the United States.


The US Department of Energy's stocks report was forecast to show
further falls to gasoline or petrol reserves in the week ending
March 23.

