

Telecommunications giant AT&T announced Tuesday that it
formed an alliance to enable people in the United States to use
mobile telephones like cash, checks or credit cards.


AT&T said it was working with Atlanta-based mobile banking
firm Firethorn, online commerce website CheckFree and a set of US
banks to fulfill the vision.


While people in parts of Europe and Asian already have the option
of using mobile telephones to make store purchases or tend to
banking, the innovation is in developmental stages in the United
States.


"This is revolutionary," industry analyst Jeff Kagan told AFP.


"This is the first wave for cell phone banking here in the United
States. We've been watching for years overseas. It is a proven
system. People love it."


Kagan predicted that all US banks and carriers would follow
AT&T's lead in the coming months and years.


"Today's announcement represents a critical tipping point in the
emerging mobile banking and payments industry," said Firethorn
chief executive Tripp Rackley.


The AT&T partnership is intended to provide a secure platform
for CheckFree and Wachovia, Regions Financial, and SunTrust banks
to make services available to AT&T mobile telephone users.


"Security will be very important, but users shouldn't worry about
it," Kagan said. "Big brand name banks are jumping in. The
security risk, which is real, is probably no worse than carrying
credit cards in our wallets."


AT&T said it will not charge a premium for mobile banking
services and that it hopes to profit from the deal by winning
more subscribers.


"Mobile banking and payments is a great new application for
wireless customers and another compelling example of the freedom,
power and convenience that people can derive from their wireless
phone," said AT&T vice president Jim Ryan.


Firethorn plans to roll out the mobile banking "solution"
according at  paces dictated by individual banks.


AT&T users interested in the new services will need to
download Firethorn software to mobile telephones initially, but
the telecom firm said it planned to have the programs pre-
installed in new devices in the future.

