

A western Canadian grain marketing board this week risks losing
its monopoly on 10 percent of the world's malt barley, a key
ingredient in beer, as pressure from Ottawa to disband mounts.


The Canadian Wheat Board, which sold 3.5 billion dollars (3.0
billion US) in barley and wheat last year, asked local farmers in
a plebiscite ordered by Ottawa whether it should maintain its
grip on Canadian barley exports.


The result, due in the coming days, could mean a small drop in
the cost of barley in world markets, said analysts. "Beer prices
won't tumble, but malt barley prices could weaken," agriculture
economist Murray Fulton told AFP.


As well, it could signal the eventual end of the Canadian Wheat
Board after a century of controversy, leaving only one "single
desk" system for marketing grain in Australia, and bolstering the
dominance of a handful of European and US firms in the competing
open market system.


About 56,000 western Canadian farmers voted in the barley
plebiscite.


A second vote to dismantle the marketing board's wheat cartel
could follow, the government said, if the first vote goes its
way, affecting 10 percent of global wheat sales and half of all
durum wheat used to make pasta.


"Tens of thousands of western Canadian farmers would suddenly be
competing against each other to sell to local and international
buyers who would try to bid down the price," lamented Adrian
Measner, a former board president and fierce proponent of
maintaining the farm co-operative's local grain monopoly.


"They need to work together to market their crops, negotiate as a
group ... to counter the influence of the big multinational
companies that now dominate the international marketplace,"
Measner said.


"Canadian farmers will be the big losers if the Canadian Wheat
Board is disbanded," he said, adding that companies such as
Cargil, Louis Dreyfus and Archer Daniels Midland "will be the
winners, there's no question."


The Canadian Wheat Board was created in the early 1900s to help
Canadian farmers pool their risk during two world wars and the
collapse of grain prices at the onset of the Great Depression in
1929.


Its modern rendition has survived more than a dozen US court
challenges alleging unfair trade practices, internal dissent, and
ongoing strife with Ottawa, its grudging financial backer in past
bad growing seasons.


The latest government proposal to end its barley monopoly sparked
a public outcry, court challenges, and even cost the board
president his job after 31 years of service, for opposing the
plan.


Several farmers were also jailed for sidestepping the marketing
board, driving trucks full of grain to the United States in
"border run protests" to test the limits of the agency's strict
rules.


Agriculture Minister Chuck Strahl said Canadian farmers want
choice and would "get a better price" for their crops in an open
market, indicating that the plebiscite fulfills a Conservative
election promise.


"We want to move towards more marketing choice for barley and
wheat," he told AFP. "Farmers believe they do better when they
have more choices on where they sell their products."


But Measler countered Strahl was comparing the board's pooled
rate to fluctuating spot prices, which can be higher only at some
intervals, but not on average.


The Canadian Wheat Board has sold wheat and barley to customers
around the globe, mostly to Japan, China, the United States, Sri
Lanka, Morocco, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia in recent years.


Support for either position is split both geographically and in
terms of farm size.


Proponents of the Conservative minority government's agenda
welcome more selling options.


Opponents fear stripping the board of its legal barley and
eventually its wheat monopoly would leave only a shell, a
voluntary marketing board with little clout in world markets.


Owners of small family farms mostly in western Saskatchewan and
Manitoba provinces, without the resources to market grains
internationally themselves, have come to the Canadian Wheat
Board's defense.


But the trend is toward bigger commercial farms, in Alberta
province, the Conservative government's heartland, which would
rather go it alone.

