

Toby Dawson, a US Olympic moguls freestyle skiing bronze medalist
at last year's Torino Winter Olympics, spoke Tuesday for the
first time about his emotional reunion with his Korean father.


Speaking on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Dawson told of being reunited
with his biological father, Kim Jae-su, in South Korea on
February 28.


"I really felt like this big piece, this huge mystery in my life
had been put back together," Dawson said.


"I just didn't know what to do, so I just threw my arms around
him and gave him a big hug. He started crying and he kept saying,
'I'm sorry. I'm sorry.' I just held him tighter."


Dawson, 28, and his brother were separated from their parents at
age three in a street market in the southern Korean city of
Pusan. They were adopted by US ski instructors Mike and Deborah
Dawson and grew up in Vail, Colorado.


"I never thought about finding my biological parents," Dawson
said. "I figured that they both had probably passed away or at
least that's the little story I played in my own mind, not to
feel so hurt and feel abandoned."


After the attention his tale received following his medal effort
last year at Torino, numerous would-be parents made their
pitches.


"I saw him in the newspaper and he looked like me," Kim said
through a translator. "And also he said he looked like his
younger brother as well, so that's why (I found him)."


Only after DNA tests were completed did Dawson know his trip to
Korea, an already-planned journey, would bring a reunion.


"I didn't want to show up at the airport and have 50 people show
up at the airport and say, 'Hey, I'm related to you,'" Dawson
said.


"Someone told me, 'We have found your biological father,'" Dawson
said. "I believe my heart stopped."


The meeting brought Dawson several revelations. Kim and Dawson's
biological mother split up and have each remarried. Dawson has
not yet met his biological mother. But he did learn he has a
younger brother he never knew about.


"He's about five years younger than I am and he's so much fun to
be around," Dawson said. "It's so weird to be an older brother to
this kid that I never even imagined having."


Dawson listened as his father related childhood memories.


"He started talking about when I used to ride on his shoulders,"
Dawson said. "He told me that I liked to copy what my mother was
doing, so one day he came home and I had lipstick all over my
face."


Kim told Dawson that his mother had lost him in the market and
they searched at police stations and orphanages but the police
had taken the children to an orphange far from their home.


Kim had never met Dawson's adopting parents until the taping of
the Winfrey show. "I want to thank them very much for raising him
so well, remarkably," he said.


"My secret dream inside was that through the Olympics, how they
always portrayed the athletes and told about their background, he
would find his birth family," Deborah Dawson said.

