

A Zimbabwe opposition activist who was shot dead by the police
was hailed Tuesday as a martyr who died for democracy as hundreds
gathered for a memorial service.


Opposition supporters, lawmakers, diplomats and relatives of Gift
Tandare gathered for a two-hour service, 15 days after the
Movement for Democractic Change activist was killed at an aborted
anti-government rally.


"Tandare has paid the ultimate price for what we believe in ...
which is to liberate our country," said Lovemore Madhuku, a
constitutional activist who was beaten along with scores of other
opposition supporters when police broke up a prayer rally on
March 11.


"We must continue with the struggle for a Zimbabwe we want... we
may be asked to pay the ultimate price," said Madhuku.


Arthur Mutambara, leader of an opposition Movememnt for
Democratic Movement (MDC) faction said Tandare "is a freedom
fighter, a national liberation hero."


The main MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai, still with a bloodshot eye
from the beating more than two weeks ago, started his first
public address with a Shona song saying "no matter how tough it
gets ... we have an agreement, even if we are murdered we have an
agreement" (to continue the struggle).


Tsvangirai told the hundreds of mourners that his arch President
Robert Mugabe needs psychiatric help and should be forgiven for
his acts.


"We don't hate Mugabe, in fact I think he needs psychiatric
help," Tsvangirai he said in his first public address since the
assault which saw him hospitalised.


Talking to journalists after the memorial service, Tsvangirai
said that the assaults had served to unite the formerly fractious
oppostion.


"You can see that everybody is united and is mobilised and
confronting the dictatorship," he said.


"There is no dictator in this world who has succeeded to oppress
the people forever ... We cannot dignify an old man who has lost
his mind," he said.


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has steadily mounted amid an economic meltdown, with
inflation at 1,730 percent and widespread food shortages in the
one-time bread basket of southern Africa.

