

The banned political wing of armed Spanish separatist group ETA,
has registered a new political party in a bid to take part in May
local elections, the interior ministry said Tuesday.


Spain's Socialist government has said Batasuna cannot take part
in the May 27 elections in the northern Basque and Navarre
regions unless it breaks definitively with ETA's armed campaign.


Batasuna, while it has distanced itself from the armed struggle,
has yet to make the unequivocal statement the government is
seeking.


The Basque separatist newspaper Gara, which has close ties to
Batasuna, said the statues of the new party, to be named
Abertzale Sozialista Batasuna (Radical Socialist Batasuna), would
use only democratic political means.


The government will be looking carefully at the new party's
statutes, to see whether or not it rejects violence
unambiguously.


Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero broke off dialogue
with the Basque separatist group ETA after last December's
bombing at Madrid's international airport in which two people
were killed.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region. Both the
EU and the US State Department consider Batasuna a terrorist
organisation along with ETA.


The rightwing opposition Popular Party has made the Basque
question its main platform of attack against the government in
the run-up to the regional and local elections.


Opposed to any dialogue with ETA and to lending any legitimacy to
Batasuna, the Popular Party has repeatedly warned that Spanish
unity is at risk.


On March 10, the rightwing opposition gathered several hundreds
of thousands of demonstrators in Madrid to protest the
government's decision to allow a Basque separatist jailed for 25
murders to finish his sentence at home.


But last week Batasuna leader Arnaldo Otegi, who faced charges of
"glorifying terrorism" at the high court, walked free after the
prosecution dropped the charges, to the anger of Popular Party
politicians.


On the eve of his court appearance he told a Catalan radio
station: "Nobody is claiming -- and if they were it would be a
mistake -- to build an independent (Basque) state by means of the
armed struggle."


The Spanish commercial radio station Cadena Ser announced earlier
Tuesday that the new party would be called Abertzale Sozialista
Batasuna.

