

In an unprecedented case, US company ITT Corp. has agreed to pay
a 100-million- dollar fine for illegally exporting night vision
technology to China, US authorities said Tuesday.


ITT, the leading manufacturer of night vision equipment for the
US armed forces, acknowledged the sale and became the first major
defense contractor convicted of a criminal violation of the Arms
Export Control Act, the Justice Department said.


The fine is one of the largest ever paid in a criminal case,
officials said.


According to a plea agreement to be filed in US District Court in
Roanoke, Virginia, the defense manufactuering firm will plead
guilty to one count each of export of defense articles without a
license and omission of statements of material facts in arms
exports reports.


"The sensitive night vision systems produced by ITT Corporation
are critical to US war-fighting capability and are sought by our
enemies and allies alike," said Assistant Attorney General
Kenneth Wainstein.


"ITT's exportation of this sensitive technology to China and
other nations jeopardized our national security and the safety of
our military men and women on the battlefield."


The US official said the prosecution "addresses the violations of
the past, ensures compliance in the future, and serves as a
strong warning to others who might be tempted by the profits of
such illegal exports."


ITT had 7.8 billion dollars in 2006 sales and has activities in
engineering as well as defense communications and electronics and
space surveillance and intelligence systems.


ITT was once the acronym for International Telephone and
Telegraph, and underwent several transformations, at first a key
telecommunications firm and later a major conglomerate that held
hotel and insurance interests before being split up. The current
ITT Corp. was previously known as ITT Industries, one of those
created from the splitup.


The monetary penalties in the case include a two-million dollar
criminal fine, a 50 million-dollar deferred prosecution penalty,
and the forfeiture of 28 million dollars in illegal gains. ITT
will also pay a 20 million-dollar penalty to the Department of
State.


Payment of the 50 million-dollar deferred prosecution penalty
will be suspended for five years. ITT can reduce this penalty by
investing in more advanced night vision technology, officials
said.

