

A group of scientists have found a way to bend and direct liquid
using only the force of light, according to a study that will be
published Friday.


The French and American physicists used a laser beam to produce a
surprisingly long and steady jet of soapy liquid that was
narrower than a human hair. When directed at a different angle,
it pushed the liquid into a hump-like shape.


It is believed to be the first time a laser had been used to
generate bulk flow in fluids.


The discovery could lead to advances in biomedical and
biotechnological research by offering a new way to control the
flow of fluids through extremely narrow channels.


The discovery was made by accident while University of Chicago
professor, Wendy Zhang, was visiting colleagues at the University
of Bordeaux.


Zhang, who studies fluids, was invited into a lab where scientist
Jean-Pierre Delville had observed a strange and unexpected result
after completing a previous experiment involving the behavior of
the same fluid under a less intense laser beam.


Delville turned up the laser power just to see what it could do,
much the same way a motorist might test the performance of a
powerful car on a deserted road.


"He turned up the power and then saw this amazing thing," Zhang
said. "Because he has a lot of experience with optics, he
realized that what he saw was strange."


Zhang took the concept back to Chicago and started working out
the theory of what happened with a graduate student, Robert
Schroll, who is lead author of the study to be published in the
Physical Review Letters on March 30.


"I thought this was just so weird because I know when liquid is
supposed to break up, and this one isn't doing it," Zhang said.


While heat can set liquid in motion, Zhang and her colleagues
discovered that it was not a factor in this case. Instead, it was
the gentle radiation pressure generated by photons-particles of
light which moved the liquid.


This radiation pressure is so slight it ordinarily goes
unnoticed, but the liquid used in the Bordeaux experiment has
such an incredibly weak surface that even light can deform it.


"It's basically soap," Zhang said of the experimental liquid
which was a mixture of water and oil that had been precisely
combined to display different characteristics under certain
conditions.


Further research is needed to determine whether this light-driven
flow could improve upon microfluidics, the science of controlling
fluid flow through channels thinner than a human hair.


Conventional microfluidics use ethched channels in computer chips
to control fluid flow. While this is a relatively easy process,
Zhang said, a laser-driven microfluidics system might allow
researchers to make more rapid adjustments.


"Here I've created a channel, but I didn't have to make anything.
I just shined a light," Zhang said.

