

The noose tightened Tuesday around beleaguered US Attorney
General Alberto Gonzales, after a top aide, fearing criminal
prosecution, refused to testify in a scandal over the dismissals
of eight federal prosecutors.


Questions about what role Gonzales might have played in the
affair intensified, after senior aide Monica Goodling invoked her
Fifth Amendment rights to avoid potential self-incrimination and
declined to answer lawmakers' questions about the firings.


"The hostile and questionable environment in the present
congressional proceedings is at best ambiguous," her lawyer John
Dowd said in a statement.


"More accurately, the environment can be described as legally
perilous."


Goodling, 33, is on a leave from her post as counsel to the
attorney general and as the Justice Department's White House
liaison.


She is refusing to appear at a US Senate hearing Thursday at
which another former senior aide who played a key role in the
firings is to testify.


Lawmakers want to shed light on why the eight US attorneys --
powerful local and regional prosecutors who are appointed by the
president -- were fired, even as several of them were in the
middle of sensitive corruption investigations.


But the overriding question remains what role might have been
played by Gonzales, who, in a television interview broadcast late
Monday, gave the first indication that he is weighing whether he
should leave his high-power post, in light of the scandal.


"Every cabinet official has to ask themselves every day, 'Is it
still appropriate for me to lead a cabinet department?' It's
something that I've been asking myself more lately than perhaps
others," he said.


"At the end of the day, it's not about Alberto Gonzales. It's
about this great Department of Justice that does so many
wonderful things for the American people," he said.


Gonzales who said he would ride out the controversy "as long as I
have the confidence of the president," said nevertheless that it
"pained" him.


"The attacks on my credibility ... really have pained me and my
family," he told NBC television.


"I grew up with nothing but my integrity. And someday, when I
leave this office, I am confident that I will leave with my
integrity," he said.


"I would never have asked for their resignations to interfere
with a public corruption case or in any way to interfere with an
ongoing investigation. I just wouldn't do that," the US top
prosecutor continued.


"I've got nothing to hide in terms of what I've done," he said.


His assertions came after a new batch of e-mails released Friday
showed he may have had more involvement in last year's firings
than he first indicated.


Copies of e-mail messages and other documents sent by the Justice
Department to Congress indicate Gonzales attended an hour-long
meeting in November on the firings with his then-chief of staff,
Kyle Sampson, the aide in charge of putting together a list of
those to be dismissed.


Gonzales however told reporters two weeks ago that the dismissals
were an "effort that was led by Mr. Sampson," and that they
"never had a discussion about where things stood."


Samspon is to appear under oath Thursday before the Senate
Judiciary Committee to discuss the matter.


Leading Democrats continue to suspect that the White House
removed the prosecutors for partisan reasons, while allies of
President George W. Bush say the prosecutors serve at the
pleasure of the president, and the president has the authority to
dismiss them.

