

Catholic bishops in Zimbabwe have called for a new people-driven
constitution to avoid bloodshed and avert a mass uprising,


in a pastoral letter due to be read to congregations on Palm
Sunday.


In the letter, obtained by AFP on Tuesday, the country's nine
Catholic bishops warned: "The confrontation in our country has
now reached a flashpoint."


The letter from Zimbabwe Catholic Bishops Conference continued:
"Many people in Zimbabwe are angry and their anger is now
erupting into open revolt in one township after another.


"In our judgement, the situation is extremely volatile," it
added.


"As the suffering population becomes more insistent, generating
more and more pressure through ...strikes, demonstrations and
uprisings, the state responds with ever harsher oppression
through arrests, detentions, banning orders, beatings and
torture."


To avoid bloodshed and avert a mass uprising, the "nation needs a
new people- driven constitution" for elections expected to be
held next year and offer chances of economic recovery, the
bishops said.


The statement, one of most outspoken pastoral letters on the
crisis here, is due to be read in all Roman Catholic parishes on
Palm Sunday.


Opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said Tuesday his party would
boycott next year's elections if they were run under the current
constitution.


"No one is going into an election without a new constitution," he
said at the funeral of an opposition activist gunned down when
security forces crushed an anti-government rally earlier this
month.


"We cannot make a fundamental error of going into an election
which is predetermined."


Without naming any names, the Catholic clergymen concluded that
the crisis in Zimbabwe was "in essence, a crisis of governance
and a crisis of leadership apart from being a spiritual and moral
crisis."


It continued: "Soon after independence (from Britain in 1980),
the power and wealth of the tiny white Rhodesian elite was
appropriated by an equally exclusive black elite, some of whom
have governed the country for the past 27 years through political
patronage."


President Robert Mugabe, himself a Catholic, is the only leader
Zimbabwe has known.


The 83-year-old is blamed for the economic crisis facing the once
jewel of Africa. But he blames the meltdown on western powers
that have imposed targetted sanctions against him and his aides.


Southern African leaders are due Wednesday to discuss the
Zimbabwe crisis, which critics have warned could have far-
reaching repercussions on the region if left unchecked.

