

Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi said on Tuesday that he is
boycotting this year's Arab summit because it would foment
Islamic sectarianism and encourage further confrontation with
Iran.


"I will not take part in a summit that splits Islam in two and
pits Sunni and Shiite against each other," he said in an
interview on Al-Jazeera television. "I will not take part in a
summit that pits Arabs against the Furs (Iranians) ... to benefit
the colonial (Western) powers."


Arab heads of state gather in the Saudi capital on Wednesday for
the annual meeting of the Arab League.


Some of the region's pro-Western Sunni Muslim leaders have
expressed concerns over Iran's controversial nuclear programme.
The predominantly Shiite state has been accused of secrety trying
to develop an atomic weapon, a charge it strongly denies.


Sectarian bloodshed in Iraq is also high on the agenda at the
summit, held last year in Sudan.


Libya also has particularly strained relations with the summit's
host, Saudi Arabia. During a meeting of Arab leaders in the
Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm El-Sheikh in 2003, Saudi
Arabia's King Abdullah, then the kingdom's crown prince, cursed
Kadhafi live on television.


The Al-Jazeera interviewer asked the flamboyant Libyan leader if
he refused to attend the summit because it was being held in
Saudi Arabia.


"A demeaning thing happened at this (Sharm El-Sheikh) summit," he
replied, as he sat behind a map of the Middle East wearing a
white suit with a green badge in the shape of Libya pinned to his
chest.


"It was ill mannered, below standard and disrespected the summit,
the Arab people and the umma (Islamic nation). I decided to rise
above this out of respect for myself, the Arab people and the
umma," he added.


He also said he did not trust other Arab states because they
abandoned him when the United States imposed sanctions on Libya
in the 1980s over suspected links to Islamic militants.


"Libya is an African nation in Africa. The Arab countries never
fought by our side against the Americans nor did they dismantle
the barrier (sanctions) around us," he said.

