

Russia's UN envoy suggested that the Security Council undertake a
mission to Belgrade and Kosovo's main city of Pristina before a
proposed UN plan for Kosovo independence is debated.


Vitaly Churkin said the trip should take place "as quickly as
possible" so that the council can "familiarize itself with the
actual state of things... talk directly to the parties, the
people and get a comprehensive view of where things are heading."


He also said there should be a "comprehensive review" of how
Resolution 1244 on Kosovo's future status would be implemented.


The Russian envoy made the surprise suggestions during
unscheduled closed-door consultations on Kosovo, a day after UN
mediator for Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari recommended supervised
independence for the breakaway Serbian province.


Ahtisaari's independence call was immediately hailed by Kosovo's
president Fatmir Sejdiu but rejected by Belgrade.


Russia, a veto-wielding member of the council, has objected to
the independence proposal, with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
calling for more efforts to reach a compromise.


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, authorizes the United
Nations to facilitate a political process to determine the future
status of the breakaway Serbian province, which has an ethnic
Albanian majority.


This resolution "has been and still is the foundation of all
international efforts in Kosovo," Churkin told reporters.


"To us it is logical to see where the international community
stands on the implementation of Resolution of 1244 before we can
consider Mr Ahtisaari's proposal."


Churkin said the council mission and the review of Resolution
1244 should be undertaken "as quickly as possible".


He said the response of some his colleagues on the 15-member
council was "interested and positive" although he noted they
would have "to report to (their) capitals before agreeing."


Noting that Ahtisaari would probably address the council next
week, he said any mission would probably not leave until after
Ahtisaari's visit.


"We are not asking for a postponement" of the council debate on
Kosovo, he said. "We are asking for continuing very thorough and
comprehensive work because this is a matter which is quite
probably going to be the most important issue before the Council
this year."


"There must be a negotiated solution... acceptable to both
parties," he told reporters.


He said that during the consultations he did not go into the
substance of Ahtisaari's plan because 'I don't want to criticize
Mr Ahtisaari behind (his) back."


"We do have some issues (with his plan) and I look forward to
discussing them when he comes before the council," he added.


He noted that many of the standards for democratic governance,
protection of minority rights and decentralization, called for
under Resolution 1244 "have not been implemented.


After 13 months of negotiations led by Ahtisaari, both Belgrade
and Kosovo Serbs earlier this month rejected independence for
Kosovo, calling instead for more negotiations.


But Kosovo Albanians, who make up 90 percent of the province's
population of two million, will accept nothing less than full
independence from Serbia.


The United Nations has administered the Serbian province since
1999, after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb
forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on the majority ethnic
Albanians.

