

British Prime Minister Tony Blair is urging the United Nations to
declare a no- fly zone over the western Sudanese region of
Darfur, The Guardian reported on Wednesday.


Citing unidentified sources from Blair's Downing Street office,
the daily said that the no-fly zone would be enforced, if
necessary, by air strikes on Sudanese military airfields used for
raids on Darfur.


"There could be an agreement in the Security Council that there
could be a no- fly zone," a source told the paper.


"If the Sudanese government broke that agreement there would have
to be consequences."


A Downing Street spokesman, however, told AFP that Britain was
not pushing for either a no-fly zone, or air strikes.


"The Prime Minister has made it known he is not inclined to in
any way (to) cover up the fact ... that Sudan have gone too far,
and that we need to think of new measures," the spokesman said.


"He's definitely mentioned no-fly zones in the past, he's talked
about no-fly zones as something that comes much further down the
track. We would always act, insofar as we could, in line with
actions sanctioned by the UN Security Council."


Asked if Blair was pushing for the UN to consider a no-fly zone
over Darfur, the spokesman said: "No, we're definitely not at
that stage yet."


A Downing Street source was quoted by The Guardian as saying that
Blair believes the conflict in Darfur is "a test of the
international community's commitment to its own values."


"The prime minister believes in a values-driven foreign policy
and believes you have to evenly apply those values to have any
credibility."


The Guardian also said that a new, still-classified, report by
the UN's panel of experts on Sudan found evidence that the
Sudanese government was still shipping arms into Darfur, and
conducting air operations over the region, violating a UN
resolution passed two years ago.


Ethnic violence which has plagued Sudan for years has spilled
over into Chad and the Central African Republic, the two
countries bordering Darfur.


Khartoum took part in peace talks with the Darfur rebels in
Nigeria in 2006 but in the end only one faction signed the
resulting agreement and the rest intensified their uprising.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and two million displaced since the rebels first rose
up in early 2003. Some sources say the death toll is much higher.

