

FBI director Robert Mueller pleaded with US senators Tuesday not
to scrap special anti-terrorism measures after it breached its
powers to obtain the personal data of suspects.


"The statute did not cause the errors; the FBI's implementation
of the statute did," Mueller told a hearing of the Senate
Judicial Proceedings Committee, referring to special powers
granted under the Patriot Act.


"Mistakes made with regard to national security letters are
simply not acceptable ... These deficiencies are being
addressed," he said.


"I do not believe, however, that the statute itself should be
changed."


The Federal Bureau of Investigation faces calls from some
quarters to be stripped of the tough powers to investigate
suspected terrorist activity that were introduced after the
September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.


"We're going to be re-examining the broad authorities we granted
the FBI in the Patriot Act," said the Senate commission's
Democratic chairman, Patrick Leahy Tuesday.


"It seems to me the FBI is again at a crossroads. Some are
calling on Congress to take away the FBI's domestic intelligence
functions, create a separate domestic intelligence, like
Britain's MI5," he added.


A March 9 audit report by the US Justice Department found 22
possible breaches of internal regulations regarding letters used
by the FBI to obtain the personal records of US residents or
visitors between 2003 and 2005.


The so-called "national security letters" were sent to banks,
Internet providers, phone companies and libraries ordering them
to release personal data on customers under surveillance in
counterterrorism investigations.


But reports surfaced this month that the FBI had not observed
proper procedures in issuing the letters.


In one case, a senior FBI official signed letters without
including the required proof that they were linked to FBI
counterterrorism or espionage investigations.


The head of a US Justice Department probe into the matter, Glenn
Fine, acknowledged the mistakes were probably not intentional.


Mueller told the Senate commission: "I do believe it is important
that the Congress and the American people understand how
essential national security letters are to our efforts in the war
on terror."


The revelations added to political pressure on the administration
of President George W. Bush, facing a controversy over the
sacking of several top judges who critics say were dismissed for
political reasons.


The Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, head of the Justice
Department of which the FBI is the investigative arm, is facing
calls to resign over the dismissals.

