

The man entrusted with unravelling the Bob Woolmer murder mystery
is a British detective used to battling Eastern European
gangsters and who once helped foil a plot to kidnap Victoria
Beckham.


Mark Shields, 47, first arrived in the Caribbean in the early
2000s as part of an independent team sent to investigate
allegations of a shoot-to-kill policy in the Jamaican police
force.


The 6ft 6in Scotland Yard detective made such an impression he
was subsequently hired by the Jamaican government as a deputy
police commissioner with a brief to help counter violent crime
and 'Yardie' gangs.


Shields is now heading the investigation into the murder of
Pakistan cricket coach Woolmer, who was found strangled in his
room at the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel on March 18.


Since Shields' appointment in 2005, Jamaica's murder rate has
dropped from record highs, and the British police officer has
become one of the island's best-known and popular public figures
as a result.


He was recently described as one of Jamaica's most eligible men
by a local newspaper, and he readily admits to being surprised by
the attention.


"I'm astounded. Wherever I go, people recognise me and want to
speak to me. I still find it hard to get used to," he said in a
local newspaper interview.


"I enjoy it because 99.999 per cent of the people are warm,
friendly and congratulatory in terms of what we're doing. I get
an immense amount of encouragement from that, because it is a
challenging job."


Shields joined his local police force in southeast England as a
17-year-old and rapidly rose through the ranks.


By the age of 28 he was the head of the Special Branch in
London's financial district, placed in charge of installing the
"Ring of Steel" surveillance network designed to protect the
British capital's centre of finance.


From there he was transferred to the National Criminal
Intelligence Service, working in Germany to monitor Eastern
European crime gangs and Swiss financial institutions used by
money launderers.


"I ran sources of intelligence that gave us lots of good
intelligence about Russian organised crime, money laundering, all
sorts of things, running heroin through Eastern Europe and into
the UK," Shields later said.


"I went into some of the deepest, darkest places in Eastern
Europe to visit people in prisons who'd been arrested."


When he returned from his stint in Germany, Shields worked as a
divisional commander in the English seaside town of Clacton
before transferring to Scotland Yard as a detective
superintendent.


In 2002 he helped foil a plot to kidnap the wife of England
football star David Beckham before heading to Jamaica shortly
afterwards.

