

The US military has secured its first guilty plea from a
Guantanamo inmate but the agreement is unlikely to win over
skeptics of Washington's "war on terror" trials.


Australian David Hicks, in his khaki prison garb and flip-
sandals, looked at times bemused and dismayed in proceedings
Monday before a US tribunal, charged with being trained by the
Al-Qaeda network.


Anger flared as two of his lawyers were disqualified in a matter
of minutes, with one of the attorneys furiously accusing the
military judge of presiding over a mockery of justice.


"I'm not a potted plant," said an outraged Joshua Dratel, a
prominent American defense lawyer who has represented Hicks for
years but was told he could only observe.


Blasting what he called a lack of clear rules for defense
lawyers, Dratel refused to sign a text drafted by the judge,
saying it was a "blank check" that would violate his ethical
obligations.


"Right now you do not represent Mr Hicks," said the judge,
Colonel Ralph Kohlmann, turning red with exasperation.


Monday's courtroom free-for-all underlined how the tribunal
authorities often find themselves stumbling in unchartered legal
territory, faced with dilemmas about basic issues easily resolved
in established courts or military courts- martial.


With the presiding officer in a black robe sitting at a dais with
a blue curtain behind him, across from tables of defense and
prosecution lawyers, the tribunal could be mistaken at first
glance for any other courtroom.


But the tribunals operate largely outside the US judicial system,
under different rules favoring the prosecution, and are designed
to try alleged terrorists who are labeled not as prisoners of war
or criminal suspects but as "enemy combatants."


Hicks is the first to be charged under the tribunals which have
been revived by Congress after the previous system, drafted by
President George W. Bush, was declared illegal by the US Supreme
Court.


And Hicks is now the first to plead guilty, an outcome that the
US administration will likely see as something of a victory.


But Hicks's plea, coming after more than five years in detention
and more serious charges were dropped, may only bolster criticism
that the tribunal process and the Guantanamo camp represent a
"law-free zone" that breaches fundamental human rights.


While the Bush administration has called the detainees at
Guantanamo the "worst of the worst," even prosecutors did not
portray Hicks as a big fish or "high value" suspect.


"The facts speaks for themselves," said Ben Wizner, an attorney
with the American Civil Liberties Union who observed the
proceedings.


"Anyone in David Hicks's position would have serious doubts about
whether he could receive a fair trial in this system. And anyone
not in David Hicks's position cannot possibly understand the
kinds of pressures he faced when making the decision to go
forward," Wizner said.


The chief prosecutor for tribunals, Colonel Morris Davis, said
the Hicks case showed the tribunals could work in an open, fair
manner. "We think it's a fair process," said Davis.


The guilty plea also came amid pressure from the Australian
government which was blasted at home over the case, casting doubt
on the independence of the tribunals that are overseen by the US
Defense Department.


"It also gives the system the appearance that depending on who
your government is, what their diplomatic relations are, what
kind of pressure can be brought to bear, that your particular
case may be resolved, and that in itself is problematic," said
Jamima Musul of Amnesty International.


Looking on stoically at Monday's tribunal proceedings in the
public gallery was Hicks's father, Terry Hicks, who told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp afterward his son was desperate and
saw a guilty plea as the only realistic option.


"He wants out and it's possibly the only way he's going to get
out," Hicks said.

