

Ryan Giggs insists that Wales can still qualify for the Euro 2008
finals despite lying second from bottom of Group D.


Wales meet San Marino in the Millennium Stadium on Wednesday
after losing 1-0 to the Republic of Ireland in Dublin at the
weekend.


But the 33-year-old Wales captain believes the tie against Group
D tailenders San Marino could be a turning point.


"If we play to our best abilities we should win the game
comfortably. We need a good start, make sure of the win and get a
lot of goals," he said.


"We are expected to win and we should win. We are at home against
a team at the bottom of the group and we should be winning these
games.


"Qualification is not over. We have San Marino twice, a lot of
home games and the Czechs here in June. If we can get nine points
going into next season then we are still in with a chance."


Giggs, who will win his 62nd cap for Wales on Wednesday, also
dismissed any questioning of his own effort.


"As a player you cannot save yourself for a particular game, you
cannot turn it off and on, you can't decide not to play well and
say I'm saving myself for next week," he continued.


"You have got to try to play well all the time because that
breeds confidence, anyone who knows the characters of the
individuals concerned within the team, knows what was said is not
right.


"We were hurt by the result and the performance. The only way to
rectify that is to produce a positive performance next time."


And the Manchester United veteran made it clear he still aims to
be around for the 2010 World Cup qualifiers, certainly then his
last chance of playing in a major finals.


"It did not even go through my head that I should step away from
the situation now, not for one second.


"I've always said that I will be involved as long as I am
enjoying it. And that means the 2010 World Cup campaign.


"I still enjoy the challenge of producing my form for Wales. As
long as my fitness is good, I'm injury free, I will carry on."


Wales have been boosted by both Jason Koumas and Craig Bellamy
being declared fit for Wednesday's tie.


West Brom's Koumas needed a precautionary x-ray this week after
complaining of pains in his foot but no damaged was discovered
and he will return from suspension.


Liverpool striker Bellamy trained with the squad Tuesday after
recovering from a leg knock following his collision with Shay
Given in the defeat by the Republic of Ireland.


Boss John Toshack is expected to give Wycombe striker Jermaine
Easter his first full game for Wales, as a likely strike partner
with Bellamy.


He will probably also play with just four defenders against the
Group D minnows, with either James Collins or Lewin Nyatanga
dropping to the bench.

