

The noose tightened Tuesday around beleaguered US Attorney
General Alberto Gonzales, after a top aide, fearing criminal
prosecution, refused to testify in a scandal over the dismissals
of eight federal prosecutors.


Questions about what role Gonzales might have played in the
affair intensified, after senior aide Monica Goodling invoked her
Fifth Amendment rights to avoid potential self-incrimination and
declined to answer lawmakers' questions about the firings.


"The hostile and questionable environment in the present
congressional proceedings is at best ambiguous," her lawyer John
Dowd said in a statement.


"More accurately, the environment can be described as legally
perilous."


Goodling, 33, is on a leave from her post as counsel to the
attorney general and as the Justice Department's White House
liaison.


She is refusing to appear at a US Senate hearing Thursday at
which another former senior aide who played a key role in the
firings is to testify.


Lawmakers want to shed light on why the eight US attorneys --
powerful local and regional prosecutors who are appointed by the
president -- were fired, even as several of them were in the
middle of sensitive corruption investigations.


"I think it's unfortunate that a public servant no longer feels
that her testimony would be treated fairly before Congress," said
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Gonzales refused to comment.


"I'm not going to comment on the decision by a department
employee to exercise her constitutional rights," Gonzales told a
brief news conference in Chicago.


"I look forward to working with Congress. I believe in truth and
accountability and everything I have done in connection with this
matter supports that principal," he said.


But the overriding question remains what role might have been
played by Gonzales, who, in a television interview broadcast late
Monday, gave the first indication that he is weighing whether he
should leave his high-power post in light of the scandal.


"Every cabinet official has to ask themselves every day, 'Is it
still appropriate for me to lead a cabinet department?' It's
something that I've been asking myself more lately than perhaps
others," he said.


Gonzales who said he would ride out the controversy "as long as I
have the confidence of the president," nevertheless told NBC
television that "the attacks on my credibility ... really have
pained me and my family.".


Leading Democrats continue to suspect that the White House
removed the prosecutors for partisan reasons, while allies of
President George W. Bush say the prosecutors serve at the
pleasure of the president.


Gonzales' assertions came after a new batch of e-mails released
Friday showed he may have had more involvement in last year's
firings than he first indicated.


E-mails and other documents sent by the Justice Department to
Congress indicate Gonzales attended an hour-long meeting in
November on the firings with his then- chief of staff, Kyle
Sampson, the aide in charge of putting together a list of those
to be dismissed.


Gonzales however told reporters two weeks ago that the dismissals
were an "effort that was led by Mr. Sampson," and that they
"never had a discussion about where things stood."


Sampson is to appear under oath Thursday before the Senate
Judiciary Committee to discuss the matter.


Gonzales is also under fire for a controversy over the FBI's
alleged abuse of national security letters -- streamlined
subpoenas giving agents access to a wide array of personal
financial and telephone records without a court order.


A Justice Department Inspector General report earlier this month
found "serious misuse" of the national security letters by the
bureau.

