

Saudi King Abdullah held a closed-door meeting with Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad in Riyadh Tuesday, the first since
relations chilled after last summer's Lebanon war, a source in
Assad's delegation to an Arab summit here told AFP.


Abdullah earlier greeted and embraced Assad when he flew into a
Riyadh air base to attend the summit opening Wednesday, but a
bilateral meeting on the sidelines of the Arab League gathering
had been in doubt.


The meeting, which began late Tuesday, followed the failure of
Saudi-led efforts to resolve a months-long crisis between
Lebanon's anti-Syrian government and pro-Syrian opposition.


Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal had implicitly
blamed Lebanon's Hezbollah, backed by Damascus and Tehran, for
the devastation wrought by the war which broke out after the
group captured two Israeli soldiers.


But in a speech last August, Assad said the Israel-Hezbollah war
had "exposed the Arab situation entirely... because it has downed
the people of half positions, or the half men, and brought down
all the tardy positions".


Regional newspapers said Assad was criticising the leaders of
pro-US Arab states such as Saudi Arabia, but Syrian Foreign
Minister Walid Muallem said the president was not referring to
any Arab leader.


Relations were further strained over Syrian policy in Lebanon in
the past few months after the opposition led by Shiite Hezbollah
launched a campaign to oust the government of Western-backed
Sunni Prime Minister Fuad Siniora, who has close ties with Saudi
Arabia.


The standoff in Lebanon was evident on the eve of the two-day
Arab summit when two delegations -- one led by pro-Syrian
President Emile Lahoud and the other by Siniora -- arrived in the
Saudi capital to represent their country.


Riyadh's efforts to broker a deal in Lebanon faltered despite
hopes raised by a series of meetings between leaders of the
parliamentary majority and the opposition.


The encounters followed a March 3 landmark visit to Saudi Arabia
by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad during which the
Lebanese crisis was discussed.


The two issues at the crux of the Lebanon crisis are the
opposition demand for a blocking minority in the government and
the majority's insistence on ratification of a proposed UN
tribunal intended to try suspects in the 2005 murder of former
Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri.


The assassination has been widely blamed on Syria, but Damascus
has denied any involvement.

