

Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody expects his team to maintain
consistency as they prepare to earn vital points against South
Africa in a World Cup Super Eights clash here on Wednesday.


"A win tomorrow will put us in a strong position because South
Africa are not going to lose too many matches in the Super
Eights," the Sri Lanka coach said Tuesday.


Sri Lanka stormed into the second round with an all-win record as
they beat India, Bangladesh and first-timers Bermuda in group
matches, carrying forward two crucial points in the process.


They will now take on defending champions Australia, the West
Indies, New Zealand, top-ranked South Africa, England and
debutants Ireland in the Super Eights.


"I'm pleased with our performances (in group matches), finishing
games off and being professional from start to finish," said
Moody.


"The match against India was very big and carrying points to this
stage is very important. This game (against South Africa) is also
big for us because they are the number one side and have been
playing very good cricket in recent months."


The Sri Lanka coach did not believe that only his spinners would
play a big role against the rival batsmen, saying South Africa
had been improving in this area.


"It (spin) is an area which over the years has been recognised as
not their strongest point. It's also an area they have improved
upon," said Moody.


"We had South Africa in a Test series in Sri Lanka recently and
they certainly played better than what they had been playing in
the past. Playing against Murali, it doesn't matter whether you
are a South African or from any other part of the world. He is a
different challenge completely."


Sri Lanka have relied on their spinners in middle overs to dry up
the runs, with off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan being a key
bowler. They also have effective slow bowlers in Sanath
Jayasuriya and Tillakaratne Dilshan.


Muralitharan was intrumental in his team's significant victory
over India at Port of Spain in Trinidad when he bagged three
wickets, but Moody said he was not sure whether the conditions
here would help his team.


"We'll see it tomorrow whether the conditions will favour us or
not, but we are looking forward to playing here," he said.


"The pitch looks good and the outfield is excellent, but how the
pitch will play is still a mystery to all of us as it's a new
surface."


Middle-order batsman Dilshan, meanwhile, said the fielding played
an important role in the previous group games.


"We are a better fielding side now. We have been trying different
things and we are getting better day by day. We have been working
very hard on our fielding," said Dilshan.


Sri Lanka won the World Cup in 1996 in the sub-continent, but
Dilshan said the current side were not looking that far ahead at
the moment.


"Sri Lanka had an experienced side in 1996, but we are not
looking that far ahead. We are taking one match at a time."

