

Anglo-Dutch oil giant Shell in Nigeria on Tuesday confirmed that
the federal government had charged it with the alleged loss of
some "radioactive tools" belonging to one of its contractors.


And it denied reports that it had been involved in any dumping of
toxic waste in Nigeria.


The company said in a statement that it was " aware that the
federal government has filed some charges at the Federal High
Court in Abuja against SPDC and some other corporate
organisations."


Shell is officially known as the Shell Petroleum Development
Corporation (SDPC).


"We wish to state for the avoidance of doubt that SPDC has not
been involved or charged in connection with any dumping of toxic
waste anywhere in Nigeria as alleged," the statement said.


The main charge against the SPDC is that it allegedly stored,
handled and transported radioactive sources from the jetty to the
rig site without authorisation from the Nigerian Nuclear
Regulatory Authority, the company said.


The company said radioactive sources were routinely used to
differentiate oil from gas in well formations.


SPDC, like other operators, had contracts with technical
companies who are licensed to own and operate such tools, said
the statement.


"These companies are responsible for importing, storing and
transporting such tools to and from the locations where they are
needed," it added.


Shell said that to the best of its knowledge, the radioactive
tools were securely locked in a bunker and transported to the
jetty by the contractor. The contractor also supervised the
loading of the material onto a barge.


SPDC's involvement was the provision of a tugboat to help push
the barge containing the bunker with the radioactive source and
other materials from the jetty to the rig site.


Once the radioactive source was declared missing, the company had
given its full cooperation to the relevant authorities to help
find the material, Shell said.


Shell denied media reports on Tuesday that its managing director
had been charged along with 19 other persons in connection with
an alleged dumping of toxic waste in Nigeria.


No date has yet been fixed for hearing in the matter.

