

Colourful ribbons tied to their Kalashnikovs and opium flowers
decorating a van, police in flip-flops meet with Canadian
soldiers about a new anti-Taliban operation in southern
Afghanistan.


The Canadians, part of a NATO-led force, had been on time for the
rendezvous with the district police chief at a highway checkpost
in Kanadahar province's Maiwand, known as a through route for
Taliban and drugs traffickers.


Three scruffy policemen were on duty, lounging on wooden beds and
watching the cars pass. "The boss is not here. He is in Kandahar.
Didn't you know?" said one, Abdul Wassi, with a smile.


He was wearing a long traditional shirt because his uniform "is
being washed."


Wassi put in a call to the deputy of the district, named Gulali.


The "commander" arrived in a whirl a few minutes later at the
wheel of a van with opium flowers attached to the bumpers at the
front and three teenagers on the back, green, blue and yellow
ribbons attached to their guns.


"They have just come back from an operation to pull up opium
poppy," Wassi explained.


Canadian officer Alex Ruff, nearly twice the size of Gulali, told
the deputy the evening's operation was to disturb Taliban
expected to move through the area to flee offensives in
neighbouring Helmand province, further west.


"We are going to reinforce this post and I need all your men," he
said to Gulali, whose eyes were lowered.


"We do not have enough vehicles," the Afghan replied, still not
looking at the Canadian. "Do what you can," was the reply.


There are about 250 policemen in Maiwand, a Taliban stronghold.
Among them are "auxiliary policemen" who are recruited by tribal
chiefs and receive a gun and a uniform after two weeks' training.


The Canadians do not really expect this small post to do much to
stop the Taliban. "Two or three guys in a hut, armed with rifles,
could not do much if they were attacked. They could not even stop
a vehicle," said one soldier.


Wassi said he searches two or three vehicles a night and about 10
in the day.


"I am not afraid even though the Taliban captured and decapitated
four policemen from this post a few months back," he said.


Night fell and Canadian armoured vehicles discreetly took
positions around the post, ready to intervene should anything
happen.


"There will be no clashes. The Taliban know you are here," one
Afghan policeman said.


In the meantime, about 20 policemen had blocked the road for a
few hours, "high after smoking opium and searching everything
that moves," a Canadian soldier said.


There was no incident apart from some trucks turning back after
seeing the roadblock.


Ruff, the Canadian officer, said he does not have much confidence
in the police in a district where the governor himself is
suspected of being involved in the trafficking of opium, of which
Afghanistan is the world's top producer.


"With the army, there is no problem but the police are something
else," he said, adding: "Far too many policemen smoke opium."


"It is possible that some police are collaborating with the
Taliban. Some of the guys have not been paid for a year."

