

Swimmers and coaches were shaking their heads Wednesday over
Michael Phelps' phenomenal performance to shatter one of Ian
Thorpe's world records, with one describing it as "science
fiction."


Phelps obliterated the Australian great's 2001 record in
overpowering Dutchman Pieter van den Hoogenband in one minute
43.86 seconds in the 200-metres freestyle final at the world
championships Tuesday.


It was an awesome sight watching the 21-year-old American surge
away from the triple Olympic gold medallist to win by almost 2.5
seconds.


He claimed the second of a planned eight gold medals at the meet.


"I thought that Thorpe's record was the maximum, but this is not
science, it's science fiction," Italy's former Olympic champion
Massimiliano Rosolino said.


Van den Hoogenband, who beat Thorpe in the 200m event at the 2000
Sydney Olympics only to lose to the Australian at Athens four
years later, was stunned by Phelps' performance.


"I didn't expect that it was possible that somebody in my career
would swim so fast away from me," he said. "It happened one time
earlier with Ian Thorpe in Japan at the 2001 world
championships."


Netherlands head coach Jacco Verhaeren said there was general
expectation that Phelps will break world records.


"It's not about expecting, we can expect everything from Phelps,
he's an amazing swimmer," Verhaeren said.


"As a swimmer he's so strong. He can go out fast or he can go out
slow. He broke the world record and he's earnt a lot of respect."


Phelps now owns four world records (200m butterfly, 200m
freestyle and the 200/400m medleys) among the 17 he has set in
five years' competition.


Only Mark Spitz (26) and East German backstroker Roland Matthes
(18) hold more world records.


American head men's coach and Phelps' long-time mentor Bob Bowman
said he had been expecting something special.


"The last lap was the best I have ever seen," Bowman said. "The
way that he swam on Monday night in the semi-finals I knew he was
going to do something special in the final.


"He can put the hammer down and go really fast."


One interested observer in the crowd on Tuesday was Spitz, who
holds the Olympic record for seven swimming gold medals at the
1972 Munich Games.


Phelps is tailoring his program to attack Spitz's record with
eight events at next year's Beijing Olympics.


But Spitz warned that because finals will be raced in the morning
in Beijing, Phelps will suffer most because events will be
dragged out over three days.


The Beijing program has yet to be released but it is likely
swimming heats will be in the evening, semi-finals next morning
and the finals the following morning - totalling three days for
one event.


Spitz said it was likely to be a tough program, but is hopeful
Phelps can equal his record.


"I hope I live long enough to see it happen," he said. "Records
are made to be broken.


"I think it's great for the sport. I think Michael Phelps does
have a chance. But just as the same happened for me, a lot of
things have to go right."


Phelps said everything went to plan on Tuesday.


"Everything went pretty much close to perfect in that race," he
said.


"I just wanted to take it out and the key was to get out after
the first 100 metres and make a step up on the third, in the 150,
after that it's all adrenaline.


"It doesn't matter what event you break a world record in, or how
far you go under it. To be the best in the world is an incredible
feeling."

