

The United States led a chorus of complaints at NATO Tuesday
about a prisoner swap in Afghanistan that saw five Taliban
fighters exchanged for an Italian reporter.


"The US has had a long held view that we should not negotiate for
hostages," US Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns told
reporters after a meeting of the North Atlantic Council of
officials from NATO's 26 countries.


"The great majority of voices today were supportive of that," he
said. "That was the clear sentiment, that none of us should
engage ... should agree to the exchange of hostages for
terrorists in general."


A NATO diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that
Burns had told the council that "we should try to agree not to do
this again, it puts all of us at risk."


Canada's representative called "for a NATO policy on trading
hostages".


The diplomat said the word "Italy" was not mentioned during the
meeting.


Italian reporter Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed on March 19
after a secret prisoner swap deal that angered many Afghans and
prompted the United States and other countries to condemn
negotiations with "terrorists."


Speaking to reporters after a North Atlantic Council meeting,
NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer acknowledged that
the issue had been raised.


"We heard from more than a few voices the call for a discussion
within NATO on such cases when, what a country does, can have
implications for others," he told reporters at NATO headquarters
in Brussels.


He said the discussion had led to an "understanding that what a
country does can have implications for others ... and (can) be an
incentive for opposing forces to do this again."


Mastrogiacomo was snatched in the southern Afghan province of
Helmand on March 4 along with an Afghan journalist and a local
driver who was beheaded because his captors thought he was a
military spy.


The Taliban militia, ousted from power by a US coalition in late
2001 for harbouring Osama bin Laden, has been waging a tenacious
insurgency against NATO- led forces in Helmand and other southern
and eastern provinces.

