

Ivory Coast rebels said Tuesday their leader Guillaume Soro will
be named prime minister by President Laurent Gbagbo as part of a
peace accord between the former arch-rivals.


The accord, signed March 4 in the Burkina Faso capital of
Ouagadougou on Monday, envisages a government of 33 cabinet
ministers, of which 18 portfolios will go to the rebel New Forces
group.


New Forces spokesman Alain Lobognon announced on the rebel's
website that the appointment of Soro as premier -- brokered in a
separate meeting in Ouagadougou on Monday -- would be "confirmed"
very soon by presidential decree.


Soro, a 34-year-old former student leader, led an attempted coup
against Gbagbo in 2002 sparking a civil war that left the west
African country effectively divided in two.


Gbagbo said on Tuesday that the new government would be in place
"this week or next week at the latest," although he did not
immediately confirm Soro as prime minister.


"The war is finished and the crisis is finished. All the
agreements have been signed," Gbago said at the presidential
palace here.


He said once the government was in place he would immediately
embark on a tour of the "occupied zones" in the north where
citizens "have not seen their chief for a long time."


Soro accepted an offer in January for "direct dialogue" with his
former enemy Gbagbo to take the country toward a peace accord and
elections.


Charles Konan Banny, who was appointed prime minister by the
international community in 2005, hinted on Monday that he was
ready to stand down when he said he was prepared to make a
"sacrifice" and insisted that he would never be an "obstacle to
peace".


Banny was given wider powers under a UN Security Council
resolution in 2006 to pursue the peace process and move toward
new elections. He said he had succeeded in his mission by
"restoring trust" between the main players.


"What one calls direct dialogue is nothing more than
communication made possible between brothers who had been
refusing to speak to each other. This dialogue, like all progress
in history, did not happen by accident," he said.


Soro led an Ivory Coast student union from 1995 to 1998 and was
given the nickname "Che" because of his left-wing militant
activities. He was imprisoned several times for taking part in
demonstrations against the ruling party of the time.


After living in Britain and then France, Soro returned to the
Ivory Coast and appeared at the side of General Robert Guei who
overthrew President Henri Konan Bedie in 2000.


Soro was also close to former prime minister Alassane Ouattara
when he was banned from the 2000 presidential election.


In October 2002, Soro was the secretary general of the Ivory
Coast Patriotic Movement which took control of the north of the
country after the coup attempt against Gbagbo. He later became
leader of the New Forces rebellion which took control of 60
percent of the cocoa-rich country.


After a first peace accord in January 2003, Soro was part of a
national reconciliation government and was communications
minister from 2004 to 2005.


The New Forces has been demanding that Soro become prime minister
since late 2005. He was a minister for reconstruction in Banny's
government.

