

Rookie all-rounder Ravi Bopara insists England need to be at
their very best if they are to win their tricky World Cup Super
Eights clash against neighbours Ireland.


"Ireland have been playing some good cricket. I've been watching
a few of their games and they look a good side," said the 21
-year-old Essex player ahead of the Providence stadium clash here
on Friday.


"They've already proven they can beat some of the top sides in
the world and the main thing for us is to be on top of our game
when we face them. We may be expected to win, but we all know
that cricket doesn't work like that."


Ireland, who qualified for the World Cup after finishing second
in the ICC (International Cricket Council) in 2005, shocked the
cricket world by defeating former champions Pakistan in the first
round.


They tied their first Group D match against Zimbabwe before
losing to the hosts West Indies in their last match.


England, who like Ireland carry no points from the first stage,
qualified for the second round with wins over Kenya and Canada
and a defeat against  fellow Super Eights qualifiers New Zealand.


England are playing in the last eight for the first time since
1996.


Bopara said England are targetting a place in the semi-finals
with renewed confidence.


"We played well in the last couple of games in the group stages
and we are feeling confident going into the Super Eights," said
Bopara, who played against Canada after England decided to punish
all-rounder Andrew Flintoff for late night drinking.


"It's always a great feeling to go out and play some games and I
am feeling good, I am feeling confident and I am just enjoying
myself.


"I had a decent game against Canada and I felt good with bat and
ball and it was a good team performance against Kenya, it was
very solid and I didn't really have to do much," said Bopara, who
scored 29 and took 2-43 in England's 51-run win at St Lucia.


He was required to bowl only one over and did not bat in team's
seven-wicket win over Kenya in a rain shortened match at the same
venue.


Bopara said England has done well in one-day cricket recently and
has the confidence to move on.


"We are very confident, there's plenty of energy in the group and
we're feeling good about ourselves - we can't wait to get on with
it.


"If we just think back a few months ago to the Commonwealth Bank
Series in Australia we beat the number one team in the world so I
don't see any reason why we shouldn't reach the final," said
Bopara of England's tournament win last month.

