

Daegu in South Korea was celebrating Wednesday after winning the
right to host the 2011 World Athletics Championships -- an event
tipped to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into the city's
ailing economy.


"Our prayer was answered," said Yoo Chong-Ha, president of the
bid committee, after the International Association of Athletics
Federations (IAAF) announced its decision in the Kenyan city of
Mombasa Tuesday.


Daegu, South Korea's fourth largest city, beat out Moscow and
Brisbane for the right to host the event, which attracts hundreds
of millions of viewers over nine days.


"For a city with only an emerging athletics background and no
committed commercial sponsors, to be selected as the host of the
world's third largest sports event... is an extraordinary feat to
achieve," Yoo said.


Yoo credited the city's world-class 66,000-seat stadium and the
passion of its people to host the event.


It will be the third world sporting event which South Korea has
staged, after the Seoul summer Olympics in 1988 and the football
World Cup with Japan in 2002.


The nation is still bidding for three other world events.
Pyeongchang is seeking the 2014 winter Olympics, Incheon is
competing for the 2014 Asian Games and Yeosu wants to host the
2012 World Expo.


Daegu had offered free meals and accommodation for athletes and
officials, a donation of 1.5 million dollars to the IAAF's school
for athletes, and seed money of three million dollars for a fund
to develop Korean athletes.


The contribution to the fund will later rise to 10 million
dollars.


President Roo Moo-Hyun, on a visit to Qatar, sent congratulations
to the people of Daegu for the successful bid. The southeastern
city is to build an apartment town for athletes and a
broadcasting centre for the media.


A local think-tank has estimated that the championships will
generate about 500 billion won (532 million dollars) and more
than 5,000 jobs for the local economy, Yonhap news agency
reported.


Daegu is home to Korea's ailing textile industry but has been
hard-hit by globalisation, with many firms relocating to other
countries in search of cheaper labour.

