

An unwinding of global financial and trade flow imbalances would
cause the euro to surge to 1.45 dollars from 1.33 dollars
currently, a new study by three think-tanks warned Tuesday.


The United States' huge current account deficit has long fuelled
fears among economists and politicians that it can only be
reduced if the dollar comes crashing down against other major
currencies.


The Brussels-based BRUEGEL think-tank, the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington and the Korea Institute for
Economic Policy said not only would a correction spark an
increase in the euro but the pound was likely to rise to "well
over" two dollars from 1.96 currently.


However, the study warned European politicians not to intervene
in currency markets to keep the euro's value down as long the
Japanese yen and Chinese renminbi rose against the shared
European currency.


"Policymakers in Europe should not resist appreciation of their
currencies versus the dollar so long as it is matched by
depreciation against the yen and the renminbi and happens in the
context of a global currency adjustment," the study said.


It urged politicians to act urgently to correct global imbalances
in capital and trade flows caused by the US current account
deficit to avoid a violent adjustment being forced on them by
financial markets.


"Policymakers in the US, Asia and Europe should not wait until
financial markets force adjustment in the large imbalances in
global current account positions," the study said.


The US government said earlier this month that the United States'
current account deficit had surged to a new record high of 856.7
billion dollars (641.9 billion euros) last year, the equivalent
of 6.5 percent of US gross domestic product.


The deficit on the current account, the broadest measure of trade
and investment flows, represents a huge debt owed by the United
States to the rest of the world.


So far, the US economy has financed its current account gap on
favorable terms thanks to voracious foreign demand for US
securities.

