

The National Football League voted almost unanimously Tuesday to
make video replays a permanent part of the game.


The competition committee recommended to owners during the annual
meetings to make replay permanent.


League owners voted 30-2 in favour of replays. The only teams who
did not agree were the Cincinnati Bengals and Arizona Cardinals.


"It made sense for us to do it," said Atlanta Falcons general
manager Rich McKay, the co-chairman of the Competition Committee.


The league instituted replay in 1999 and owners approved it on a
year-to-year basis before giving it a three-year commitment
following the 2003 season.


Tuesday's vote ends the necessity of voting for replay on a year-
to-year basis.


A crackdown on NFL players who get in trouble with the law tops
the agenda in the annual league meetings.


New commissioner Roger Goodell is expected to announce a policy
that will allow the league to impose harsher and quicker
discipline to players who encounter off-the-field problems.


A series of embarrassing off-the-field incidents involving
players caused Goodell to meet with NFL Players Association
officials last month in Indianapolis.


Legal obstacles could dictate specifics of the new discipline
policy, such as punishment for players who might be involved in
cases that are not judicially resolved.


"Everyone agrees you have to have increased discipline," New York
Giants co- owner John Mara said.  "But you have to take legal
issues into account on how quickly you can act and you have to
take into account the form of discipline to take."


Penalties could include suspensions of up to one year, especially
for repeat offenders.


Cornerback Adam Jones and defensive tackle Tank Johnson of the
Chicago Bears have been repeat offenders.


Jones still faces felony and misdemeanor charges of obstructing
police in Georgia from an incident in February 2006.


Jones has also been interviewed by police after a triple shooting
at a Las Vegas strip club last month left one victim with a
severed spinal cord.  The co-owner of the strip club accused
Jones of being a friend of the shooter.


The Titans suspended Jones for one game during the 2006 season
due to a series of other off-the-field incidents.


Johnson is serving four months in jail for violating probation.


He was arrested on December 14 and charged with 10 counts of
possession of firearms without a state gun owner identification
card following a police raid at his home during which six guns
were seized.


Johnson has been arrested three times in the last 18 months.


Cook Country prosecutors argued that Johnson's December arrest
violated probation from a 2005 gun charge and a Cook County judge
sentenced him to 120 days in jail.


The team that has caused the most embarrassment for the league is
the Cincinnati Bengals, who have had nine players arrested on a
variety of charges ranging from drunk driving to weapons
violations.


Wide receiver Chris Henry has been arrested four times in the
last three years.

