

Walk over the Wearmouth Bridge towards the Stadium of Light, and
wrought into the iron railing, you find the City of Sunderland
coat of arms and, beneath it, the city motto: 'Nil Desperandum
Auspice Deo': 'Don't Despair, Trust in God.'


It is an oddly miserable message, but then, in recent times,
Sunderland fans have had all too many reasons to be miserable.


Relegated from the Premiership in 2003 after losing their final
15 games, they lost the first two games of the following season,
before recovering to lose in the play-off semi-finals.


A year later they were promoted as champions. It was the ninth
promotion of the club's history and, by some distance, the least
gleeful.


Crowds remained low, and nobody expected anything other than
immediate relegation.


It came with a new record low of 15 points. Sunderland could have
combined the points from their last two Premiership seasons and
still been relegated in both.


The chairman, Bob Murray, bore the brunt of the fans' anger, and
stepped down to be replaced by Niall Quinn and a consortium of
Irish businessmen.


That rekindled a certain hope. Quinn is, after all, arguably
Sunderland's greatest legend of recent times, not just for the 61
goals he scored in 168 league starts for the club, but because he
used the money raised by his testimonial to fund a children's
ward at the local hospital.


There were rumours of various big-name managers, but when the
season started Quinn ended up appointing himself, "keeping the
seat warm", he said, as he waited for the right candidate to
become available.


As Sunderland lost their first four games of the season, it
looked a disastrous move. Midfielder Arnau Riera arrived from
Barcelona's B team, to great expectation, and was sent off three
minutes into his first start, a League Cup defeat at Bury who, at
the time, were 92nd of the 92 league clubs.


Things couldn't have got any worse, and they didn't.


Suddenly the former Manchester United midfielder Roy Keane was
suggested as the new manager. Ridiculous, everyone said, for
Keane had called Quinn a "Mary Poppins" after his attempt to
broker a peace deal at the 2002 World Cup, when Keane stormed out
of Ireland's training camp following a row with their then
manager Mick McCarthy.


But Keane was in the stand as Sunderland met West Brom in the
fifth league game. They won 2-0, and by the time they met Derby a
fortnight later, he had been installed as manager.


That game was typical of what was to follow. Sunderland were one
down at half- time, but came back to win 2-1, after, it was
widely assumed, a half-time rollicking.


Since then, Sunderland have 14 times improved their position in
the second half of games, and only four times have points been
dropped after the interval.


They have scored last-minute winners or equalisers against Hull,
Derby and Stoke; late goals have become almost as common as they
were when United did the treble in 1999.


Keane, in public at least, has kept his cool. In press
conferences he has been straightforward, funny and charismatic,
his authority obvious.


Three players who were late for the bus to an away game at
Barnsley were left behind as Keane spoke darkly of "a lack of
professionalism."


On the pitch, his side snap ferociously, pressing constantly.
With seven matches to go, they lie third, three points behind
leaders Derby, and a point behind Birmingham who have a game in
hand. Had they not given the rest of the division a four-game
start, they would already virtually be up.


Crucially, hope has been restored, and for that Quinn must take a
large part of the credit.


Asked to delay the kick-off of the home match against Derby for
television, he refused, on the grounds it was better for the club
to keep things convenient for the fans and so ensure a large
gate, evoking the spirit of 1931, when shipyards and mines closed
early on a Wednesday afternoon to allow 75,118 to attend an FA
Cup replay against the same opposition.


The shipyards and the mines have gone now, and there are further
economic problems. The last two glass-blowing firms are to close
with 790 jobs going, Fujitsu have shed 600 staff, Groves Cranes
670, Vaux Breweries 600.


"At this club, in this region, there is a moral responsibility,"
Quinn said recently. "The club is the biggest symbol of identity
for Sunderland people.


"What I have to make sure is we strike a balance between being
affordable and making sure we can compete."


At the moment, the balance is being struck. There were over
38,000 at Sunderland's last home game, while over 13,000 fans
applied for 8,000 tickets for the trip to Barnsley.


This is that rarest of things on Wearside; a bubble of optimism.
At the station, where the city crest is printed on the wall,
somebody has taken a black marker to the motto. It now reads,
'Nil desperandum, auspice Keano.'

