

Russia and Latvia signed Tuesday a long-awaited treaty
demarcating their border for the first time since the fall of the
Soviet Union and bringing hope of a thaw in their tense
relations.


The treaty deadlock had endured since Latvia regained its
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, almost five decades
after it was annexed at the end of World War II along with
neighbouring Estonia and Lithuania.


"The signing of the treaty does not signify an automatic solution
to all the complicated problems that have accumulated... in
recent years," Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov was quoted
as saying at the signing ceremony.


"I hope the ratification of this treaty will not lead to any
surprises or political supplements," Fradkov said, according to
RIA-Novosti news agency.


Moscow and Riga completed border talks in 1997 and Latvia was
poised to sign but Russia subsequently refused to act, partly
because it was unhappy over Latvia's moves towards the European
Union and NATO, which the Baltic country joined in 2004.


The dispute also hinged on a reference to former Latvian
territory now in Russia.


Under the 1997 border treaty, Russia was to keep the 1,294
-square-kilometre (500 -square-mile) Pytalovo district -- known
to Latvians as Abrene -- which Moscow annexed in 1944.


Latvia, however, angered Russia in 2005 by adding an explanatory
declaration to the treaty which said that a 1920 accord in which
Russia recognised Latvia's independence and border after the fall
of the Tsarist empire was still in effect.


Prior to Tuesday's signing the Latvians agreed to drop the
supplemental clause referring to Pytalovo.


The treaty was welcomed in Washington by the State Department's
deputy spokesman Tom Casey.


"Russia and Latvia, which the United States has recognized
continuously since 1922, have together taken a step toward
constructive regional relations and away from their difficult and
painful past," a statement said.


The Russian government's website said the signing of the pact on
the  countries' 276-kilometre border "enables the overcoming of a
wide range of questions and moves the relationship to a
significantly new level."


Latvian Prime Minister Aigars Kalvitis voiced hope that the
signing represented "a return to an objective dialogue."


Relations between the two have been tense since the Soviet
Union's 1991 collapse, when Latvia won back the independence it
lost with its occupation by Soviet forces in 1940.


That occupation was briefly interrupted by the arrival of Nazi
German forces in 1941 but was cemented at the end of World War II
and lasted nearly half a century.


Tensions have eased somewhat since Latvia's entry to the European
Union and the NATO military alliance in 2004, alongside
neighbouring Estonia and Lithuania.


The treaty now moves to the two countries' parliaments for
ratification.

