

Iraq prepared on Tuesday to debate a new bill designed to woo
back members of the outlawed Baath party into mainstream politics
and government jobs in a bid to quell rampant conflict.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani said
Monday that they had sent the draft Accountability and
Reconciliation Law, pushed for by outgoing US envoy Zalmay
Khalilzad, to cabinet and parliament for approval.


The bill would reform deeply controversial legislation that saw
tens of thousands of army and government officials sacked after
the US-led invasion by offering jobs to all but the highest-
ranking former regime officials.


The original de-Baathification law and the disbanding of Saddam
Hussein's sprawling military have been widely seen as among the
key US policy blunders that have fuelled the deadly Sunni Arab
insurgency.


Wooing former Baathists, a large part of the educated and
professional elite under Saddam, back into mainstream politics
and the civil service is seen as key to promoting national
reconciliation and appeasing the raging violence.


Yet while Shiite and Kurdish lawmakers, who dominate the
275-member parliament, largely welcomed the draft legislation,
Sunni Arab officials cast doubt on whether it would have any
practical affect.


Neither was it clear when the cabinet would actually begin
debating the bill, which needs ministerial approval before being
forwarded to parliament to be put to the vote.


Sami al-Askari, a leading MP close to Maliki, told AFP the bill
would be reviewed in coming cabinet meetings, but declined to say
when.


The bill offers immunity to former Baathists after a six-month
challenge period during which any Iraqi can file a lawsuit
against any applicant they suspect of past crimes.


After that, all Baathists would be immune from prosecution over
their actions under the former regime. Pensions for Baathists and
their families, would also be confirmed, regardless of an
official's rank.


Khalilzad said the bill would give those who have been de-
Baathified "the opportunity to return to their jobs, provided
they were not at the highest levels of the former regime and have
not been involved in criminal activity."


It was one of Khalilzad's predecessors as the ranking US civilian
in Iraq, Paul Bremer, who as head of the US-led occupation
authority in 2003 outlawed the Baath party and sacked tens of
thousands of its members.


It became a major source of grievance for Iraq's Sunni Arab
former elite, who have since fought relentlessly against US
troops and the Shiite-led government that ended their decades-
long domination of power.


The bill was announced as Arab ministers meeting ahead of an Arab
summit in Riyadh agreed to call for an amendment of Iraq's
constitution to give Sunnis a greater share of power to prevent
the country from breaking up.


But Iraq's Kurdish foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, told his
colleagues that the Baghdad authorities needed no Arab "diktat"
to push for national reconciliation.


"Amendment of the constitution is an obligation written in the
text of the constitution, and we are determined to do it without
waiting to be told," he told AFP in Riyadh.


Shiite lawmakers welcomed the bill, hailing it as an opportunity
to divorce most Sunni Baathists from violence and draw them into
the mainstream.


"There is no doubt it will help reduce the cycle of violence in
the country if the Baathists returned to their administrative and
social posts," Hassan al- Sinaide, an MP in Maliki's Dawa Party,
told AFP.


But Ali Faisal al-Lami, a Shiite executive director of the
current de- Baathification Committee slammed the bill as too
lenient, suggesting that the presidency had been rushed into
drawing up the bill under diplomatic pressure from the Arab
summit.


"We are astonished the presidency council was in such a hurry to
refer this issue to parliament. It could be a political drive
related to the Arab summit."


Sunni lawmakers remained sceptical, doubting that former
Baathists would return in the current climate of sectarian
violence.


"I doubt they will return," said Dhafer al-Ani, a prominent
lawmaker from the National Concord Front, the main Sunni bloc in
parliament. "So the law is not effective in practice."

