

An unusual exercise involving two US aircraft carrier strike
groups in the Gulf is aimed at reassuring friends and allies, not
raising tensions with Iran, a Pentagon spokesman said Tuesday.


He also denied that the two day exercise involving the aircraft
carriers USS Dwight D. Eisenhower and USS John S. Stennis is in
response to the seizure by Iran of 15 British sailors and
marines.


"We are not interested in confrontation in the Gulf," said the
spokesman, Bryan Whitman.


"The fact of the matter is ... we have an interest in the
stability and security in the Gulf and the United States
continues to reassure our allies in the region that we are good
partners," he said.


Exercises involving two carrier strike groups are unusual because
two such naval formations are rarely in the same area at the same
time.


"This is an excellent opportunity," Whitman said. "These two
carriers have never operated together before. This is the first
chance they've had to operate together."


"The exercise should reassure our friends and our allies of our
commitment to security and stability in the region," he said.


The US Fifth Fleet, based in Bahrain, said two air wings from the
aircraft carriers will conduct exercises while warships from the
strike groups practice anti-submarine, anti-surface and mine
warfare.


Whitman said the standoff over Iran's seizure of the British
marines and sailors on Friday in the northern Gulf was a separate
matter that is being handled diplomatically.


But British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned in a television
interview in London that if diplomacy does not succeed in gaining
their release "then this will move into a different phase."


Pressed on what that might involve, Blair said: "Well, we will
just have to see."


President George W. Bush ordered a second US carrier to the Gulf
in January amid a mounting diplomatic confrontation with Iran
over its uranium enrichment program and US suspicions that it is
bent on developing nuclear weapons.


The second carrier raised the US naval presence in the Gulf to
its highest level since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.


But US Defense Secretary Robert Gates and other top
administration officials have repeatedly denied that the United
States has plans to attack Iran.

