

Australia coach John Buchanan said Matthew Hayden had played one
of the "top innings" of his career after the opener's 158 left
the reigning champions handily-placed in their opening World Cup
Super Eight clash against the West Indies.


Hayden's innings, the best by an Australian at the World Cup
after he topped fellow Queenslander Andrew Symonds 143 not out
against Pakistan four years ago in Johannesburg, was the
cornerstone of his side's 332 for six in the first major match
staged at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


But rain, which had fallen steadily during the Australia innings,
meant hosts West Indies were unable to start their reply and they
will now have 50 overs on Wednesday's reserve day to chase the
323 they need for victory.


Hayden - who was dropped from the one-day team after the 2005
tour of England for the best part of a year - needed 18 balls to
get off the mark in overcast conditions before smashing the
bowlers in a 143 ball-innings featuring four sixes and 14 fours.


The 35-year-old left-hander was carrying on from his century in
Australia's previous match, an 83-run win against world number
one South Africa in St Kitts on Saturday. But this innings was
played on a far larger outfield and on a livelier pitch.


"I think it was one of his top innings, not necessarily because
of the scoreline, although that's a pretty significant score in
one-day cricket but because of the adjustment he made coming from
St Kitts," said Buchanan.


"It was a wicket significantly different, a ground significantly
different and a bowling attack significantly different.


"We were looking for a platform from him and he gave us exactly
that. I rate that very highly amongst the innings I've seen."


Assessing the match situation Buchanan, whose team are bidding
for a hat-trick of titles after their 1999 and 2003 World Cup
triumps and who have won all three of their previous fixtures at
this tournament, said: "I think we've got our noses in front.
It's always nice to have that score on the board.    "But it is a
two-day one-day game and we've got a lot of work to do to
tomorrow to defend that total."


Defending seemingly impregnable totals has proved a problem for
Australia in one-day cricket during recent times.


The four highest scores to win batting second in one-day
internationals have all been made against Australia since the
2005/06 season, including a world record 438 for nine by South
Africa in Johannesburg in March last year.


"It's fair to say we've had some big scores chased down so first
of all it's nice to know we are making the big scores," said
Buchanan.


"But if we look around the world, the game has changed and teams
are finding it harder and harder to hold sides that are chasing."


And Buchanan said he was encouraged by the way Australia held
their nerve after South Africa's rapid start in pursuit of 378
for victory last weekend where the run-out of AB de Villiers and
the cramp suffered by Graeme Smith helped the title holders.


"I think we did a very good job against South Africa albeit a run
out and possibly a bout of cramp helped our case," said Buchanan.


"Nonetheless our bowlers and our fielders stuck with the task and
we were able to take nine wickets for 70 runs on a ground that
was batting friendly.


"I'm pretty pleased with the way the bowling group is coming
along."

