

Hormone-treated beef may be linked to low sperm counts and
borderline fertility among American men, according to a first-
ever study which appears in a medical journal on Wednesday.


The paper says men whose mothers were big eaters of beef -- most
of which is treated with hormones in the United States to
accelerate cattle growth -- have lower fertility levels compared
with counterparts whose mothers ate less or no beef.


It is the first peer-assessed investigation into the effect of
food on the human reproductive system, its authors believe.


US farmers have been using hormones to promote muscle growth in
cattle for more than half a century.


The European Union (EU) outlawed the substances in 1988 on health
grounds, triggering a huge trade row with the United States. The
World Trade Organisation is to issue a technical ruling on the
dispute on April 17, a European Commission source said.


The study looked at 387 American men born between 1949 and 1983
who were interviewed about their childhood background and their
history of fertility and were asked to give a sperm sample.


Sons of women who ate more than seven beef meals a week had a
sperm count that was nearly 25 percent lower than men whose
mothers ate less beef.


And they were nearly three times likelier to have sperm
concentrations that fell below the World Health Organisation
threshold of sub-fertility. The more beef the mother ate, the
lower the son's sperm quality.


"These data suggest that maternal beef consumption, and possibly
xenobiotics (foreign chemicals) in beef, may alter a man's
testicular development in utero and adversely affect his
reproductive capacity," says the study.


The paper appears in Human Reproduction, the journal of the
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.


"When you disrupt hormones pre-natally, you affect a whole
cascade, and in particular, oestrogens and androgens affect
testicular development," lead author Shanna Swan, a professor at
the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the University of
Rochester, New York, told AFP.


The "plausible hypothesis", which is also supported by previous
work on lab rodents, is that hormones are the cause, said Swan.
She stressed, though, that this was not a definitive conclusion
and that further work, such as assessing the fertility of
European men born after 1988, was needed.


The present evidence "is certainly not robust enough to affect
regulations or even public-health action but it is robust enough,
I think, to say that we have to have further studies," she said.


"(...) Together with animal data, it suggests there is a large
potential for concern here. I don't think we can assume that
these products are risk-free."


The first synthetic hormone, diethylstilbestrol, or DES, was
formulated in 1933.


In 1947, it was approved for use by pregnant women to prevent
miscarriages.


In 1954, the US Food and Drug Administration approved DES for
accelerating muscle growth in cattle. By 1956, more than two-
thirds of US feeder cattle were receiving DES, according to
Swan's study.


In 1979, the FDA withdrew use of DES for cattle, eight years
after it was banned for use by pregnant women following evidence
that it damaged male and female reproductive systems.


Other hormones are still widely and legally used in US and also
Canadian meat production: three are natural steroids (oestradiol,
testosterone and progesterone) and three are synthetic (zeranol,
trenbolone acetate and menegestrol acetate).


When the animal is slaughtered not all the steroids have been
metabolised or excreted, leaving measurable levels in muscle,
fat, liver, kidney and other meat products, says Swan.


In a preliminary reaction, the US Meat Export Federation
complained that the study did not identify mothers who had been
taking DES as a medication.


"It's quite possible that this study is actually showing results
of pre-natal exposure to DES through oral supplementation to the
mother, not through beef," the federation's export services
manager, Courtney Heller, said in an email.


DES continued to be prescribed to pregnant women in Europe after
it was banned in the United States, eventually being phased out
completely in the mid-1980s.

