

British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran on Tuesday that a
dispute over 15 detained sailors could enter a "different phase"
if they were not freed soon as the foreign minister rushed back
to London to deal with the crisis.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett cut short a visit to Turkey in
order to report to parliament Wednesday, having hit a dead end in
talks with her Iranian counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair earlier cautioned Iran that he
was not prepared to see the naval personnel held with "no
justification whatever."


His official spokesman said London was not looking to escalate
the stand-off and would prefer a diplomatic solution, insisting
that Britain was not considering military action or throwing out
Iran's ambassador.


Blair said Britain was trying to "pursue this through the
diplomatic channels and make the Iranian government understand
these people have to be released."


"If not, then this will move into a different phase," he added in
an interview with GMTV television.


And Beckett's return so soon after speaking to Tehran reflected
the mounting concern over the standoff, as Iran rejects growing
international calls to free the sailors who were detained last
Friday.


Beckett said she had decided to return to London after speaking
on the telephone with Mottaki.


"I discussed what developments there have been, whether we have
made any progress in trying to resolve the issues. Unfortunately,
it appears that may not be the case, she said.


"So, with great regret, I have decided to cut here my visit to
Turkey and go to report to our parliament," she said in Ankara.


A Foreign Office spokesman said Beckett "spoke in very robust
terms" with Mottaki.


"She indicated that the British government will continue to
pressurise the Iranian government on all these points."


Britain, supported by Iraq, insists that the naval personnel were
conducting "routine" anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters
Friday when they were seized at gunpoint in the Shatt al-Arab
waterway in the north of the Gulf.


Iran says they entered its territorial waters illegally.


Pressed on what a "different phase" of the dispute might involve,
Blair said: "Well, we will just have to see.


"But what they should understand is that we cannot have a
situation where our servicemen and women are seized when actually
they are in Iraqi waters under a United Nations mandate,
patrolling perfectly rightly and in accordance with that mandate,
and then effectively captured and taken to Iran."


Blair said that the sailors' welfare was paramount.


"There is absolutely no justification whatever for holding them,"
he added.


Blair's spokesman said London was "utterly certain" that the
sailors were in Iraqi waters.


"So far, we haven't made explicit why we know that because we
don't want to escalate this.


"We don't want to do that too soon because we prefer to have this
... resolved quietly."


But he added: "We may come to the stage where we have to become
more explicit about why we know this."


Citing unnamed sources, the BBC said the crew were being grilled
at a Revolutionary Guards base in Tehran to find out if they were
on an intelligence- gathering mission.


The investigation involved examining tracking equipment to
determine exactly where the sailors were seized.


The European Union has demanded the sailors' release and the
United States has expressed its "concern and outrage."


The crisis over the detentions comes as concerns also rise over
Iran's disputed nuclear programme.


World oil prices dipped Tuesday after a surge towards 65 dollars
a barrel in London amid the mounting political tensions with the
Islamic republic.

