

Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, the world's richest man, has
given British scientists 23 million dollars to fight tropical
diseases, the scientists announced Wednesday.


The Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine received the grant for
research into the parasitic worm disease human filariasis, which
causes a range of diseases affecting more than 150 million of the
world's poorest people.


Among the diseases are elephantiasis, which causes massive
swelling of the legs and genitals, as well as onchocerciasis,
otherwise known as river blindness.


Scientists led by Mark Taylor will use the funds to develop and
screen thousands of new combinations of potential filariasis
drugs.


Taylor said they were developing a drug to kill a bacteria inside
the worm which was essential for its survival.


"Our aim is to obtain a safe and easily administered anti-
symbiotic drug combination to kill the bacteria in a shorter
period, reducing the time needed for programmes to eliminate
adult worms from an endemic area," he said.


"Importantly, it could add another weapon in the armoury against
these diseases," he said.


The scientists will work with an international consortium of six
academic and industrial partners.


"The fight against filariasis requires multiple approaches -- we
must expand the use of available drugs and also accelerate
research on new drugs," said Regina Rabinovich, director of
infectious diseases for the Gates Foundation.


In 2005, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donated millions
of dollars to the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine for
research into malaria.


Bankrolled by a war chest of almost 30 billion dollars in profits
donated by the Microsoft co-founder, the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation invests by the billions of dollars in AIDS programs
and vaccinations against tuberculosis, malaria and other diseases
still troubling developing countries.


As a sign of the foundation's rising profile, Bill Gates in May
2005 delivered one of the keynote addresses at the annual meeting
of the World Health Organization in Geneva before ministers from
192 members.

