

Chinese and Indian companies are turning into a promising source
of direct investment in Africa, adding to an Asian investment
surge in Africa over the past 15 years, a UN agency said in a
report Tuesday.


Nonetheless, investment outflows to African nations are still
just a small fraction of the global total of investment by Asian
companies abroad, which has also surged since the mid-1990s, the
UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) said.


Asian investments are also sharply focused on energy and mining,
it added, calling for a diversification of Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI) in other sectors of African business and the
economy.


An average of 1.2 billion dollars (903 million euros) a year of
the 46 billion dollars in Asian FDI in 2002 to 2004 went to
Africa, the UNCTAD report said.


However, China and India have emerged as significant new sources
of investment in Africa, fuelling the traditional flow from
industrialising Asian tigers, UNCTAD said.


The report said the Asian investment flows are "set to increase
further in the coming years" after a slight tail-off in the late
1990s.


Singapore, India and Malaysia were the top Asian sources of FDI
in Africa with total stocks of 3.5 billion, 2.0 billion and 1.9
billion dollars respectively, accumulated between 1996 and 2004.


Those figures compared with 2.08 billion dollars of FDI stocks
from Singapore in 1999, 296.6 million dollars from India in 1996
and just 1.1 million from Malaysia in 1991, according to the
UNCTAD report, which was not based on uniform data.


All of the most recent Singaporean investment went to Mauritius,
which also snapped up up to half of the African investment by
Indian and Malaysian firms, according to UNCTAD's data.


Chinese stocks of FDI in Africa reached 1.6 billion dollars in
2005 -- mainly in Sudan, followed by Algeria and Zambia -- and
represented just three percent of Chinese global outflows.


In 1995, China's FDI stock in Africa was 49.2 million dollars,
according to UNCTAD data.


Meanwhile, trade flows between Africa and China increased from 11
billion dollars in 2000 to 56 billion dollars in 2006.


The report indicated that the increase in FDI from Asia was
helping to regenerate Africa's share of global investment flows,
after the continent's share dropped sharply to 1.6 percent in the
1990s.


UNCTAD said it would like to see Asian FDI in Africa break from
the traditional pattern of investment in the continent's huge
natural resources.


"The majority of new investments in Africa are in the energy
sector," UNCTAD analyst Hafiz Mirza told journalists.


"There is a need for diversification away from natural
ressources," he added, calling for more investment in Africa's
infrastructure to support economic growth.


The report said that it was "likely that (South) Korean firms
will soon be seeking to secure their own natural resources from
Africa."


UNCTAD said that African governments could also learn from the
pattern of development in many fast-growing Asian economies.


The agency underlined that investments in education and
infrastructure in Asia proved crucial not only for overall
economic development but also for attracting and creating
efficient, export-oriented companies.


Asian FDI in Africa was also marked by a large proportion of
greenfield investment, underlining the relatively low number of
acquisitions of African companies, the report said.


India and China were the leading key drivers, setting up 48 firms
and 32 firms respectively, out of the total of 126 Asian
greenfield investments in Africa between 2002 and 2005, it added.

