

A new nine-day mandatory tournament in Beijing announced here
Tuesday will be the cornerstone of plans for growth in China by
the WTA Tour, series chief executive Larry Scott announced here
Tuesday.


As part of a plan to revamp the entire women's tennis tour
starting in 2009, Beijing will host one of the four elite events
on a 20-tour top-level calendar with four million dollars in
prize money.


Other mandatory women's stops would be in Madrid, Miami and
Indian Wells, California.


A streamlined WTA calendar of top events will include Asia-
Pacific regional stops in Tokyo, Sydney, Doha and Dubai as well
as Beijing, which will also host a new regional WTA office
starting in 2008 to guide marketing and promotions.


"With the establishment of a crown jewel tennis event in China
that will feature the world's best players, our sport is
positioned for explosive growth in the world's most exciting
market," Scott said.


Scott said he hoped the event could spark social change for women
in China.


"The fact our top players play there sends a very strong and
powerful signal about the progressiveness of some of those places
that I think is inspiring social change," Scott said.


"Our sport is a reflection of where society is at around the
world in terms of some of these social issues, but it's also a
catalyst for further affecting social change."


China's Li Na has advanced to the quarter-finals here and should
be a medal contender at next year's Beijing Olympics. The Olympic
Green Tennis Center will be the home for the new WTA event.


"I'm really excited Beijing will be the home of one of the tour's
biggest and most important events," said Zheng Jie, ranked 32nd
on the WTA Tour.


"Tennis has become incredibly popular in China and will only get
bigger in the years to come."


The WTA and Beijing will also explore the potential to link with
the ATP Shanghai Masters Series event to create a combined ATP-
WTA event that would rotate annually between Shanghai and
Beijing.


"We have full confidence and capabilities to work closely with
the WTA Tour for the long term to run the Beijing event as a top
world tournament so as to propel the development of tennis in
Beijing and China," Beijing vice mayor Zhao Fengtong said.


ATP president Etienne de Villiers was confident a format used in
Canada, with ATP and WTA events in consecutive weeks rotating
between two major cities each year, or a united rotating format
could work in China.


"We are in the position to provide either back-to-back weeks, a
successful formula in Canada, or possibly evolve in time to an
alternating combined event in both cities," he said.


"In an exciting and developing market, we now have a plan that
can best serve tennis and China."

