

US engineer Chi Mak went on trial Tuesday on charges he exported
US military submarine secrets to China.


He is accused of working with his relatives, all of Chinese
origin, to deliver copies of sensitive military information to
the Chinese government without an export license.


"Opening statements could begin later this week for a trial US
District Judge Cormac Carney has said could run four to six
weeks," said assistant prosecutor Greg Staples said.


Jury selection from among 75 prospective jurors began in the
Santa Ana courtroom outside Los Angeles on Tuesday.


The former top engineer had access to military technology on
silencing submarines at a US corporation with contacts in the US
Navy.


Mak could face as much as 50 years in prison if he is found
guilty.


The Guangzhou, China native has been a US citizen since 1985.


Mak, who is also charged with acting as an agent of China in the
United States and with making false statements, was arrested
after agents swooped down on two relatives at Los Angeles
International Airport as they prepared to board a flight to Hong
Kong.


According to Justice Department documents, the duo were caught
with a disk containing sensitive encrypted data on US submarines
hidden inside an English- language CD course.


Mak has not been charged with espionage because the information
on the disk has not officially been deemed classified.


Instead prosecutors say the data relates to weapons-related
technology that requires an appropriate export license, which Mak
never sought.


Mak has denied the charges. Defense lawyer Ronald Kaye has
described his client as having an "unblemished" character.


Kaye has also said all the data referred to in the case was made
available at a public conference, and so cannot be described as
secret.


The investigation began in early 2004, when federal agents began
audio and video surveillance of the engineer and his family.


Although the case is not an espionage trial, prosecution
documents give an insight into a shadowy world of intrigue,
revealing Chinese intelligence code names such as Red Flower,
Winter Chrysanthemum and Autumn Orchid.


In a raid at Mak's home, prosecutors say they also discovered a
wish-list of US military technology, including information on
missile defense and torpedo systems.


The trial comes amid increasing US concern about Chinese
intelligence activities.


A senior official said in remarks published earlier this month
that Chinese agents were the most active in the world and were
aggressively pursuing advanced technology.


"The technology bleed to China, among others, is a very serious
problem," Joel Brenner, the new head of the Office of the
National Counterintelligence Executive, told The Washington
Times.

