

Track giants Australia are hoping Ben Kersten can give them a
golden start to the world championships when he saddles up with a
slight edge over his rivals in the inaugural Omnium.


The five-race event will be a major feature of Thursday's first
of four days, making its world championship debut ahead of
featuring in the 2008 Beijing Olympics.


Australia head coach Martin Barras believes Kersten has all the
ingredients, and perhaps one that could make the difference, to
come out on top.


"We're the only country to have run one so far and it's the first
time at world championships and Ben was outstanding in the event
to win at the Australian Championships," said Barras.


"There is no doubt in my mind that he is a strong favourite for
the Omnium."


The Omnium kicks off with a 200 metre flying start, and is
followed by a scratch race, an individual pursuit, and a points
race before the killer kilometre time trial closes what should be
a tough day of competing.


Initially, the design of the velodrome and its freshly-laid but
unsanded Siberian pine boards had prompted fears of dull
performances throughout the week.


However the French team have been pleasantly surprised seeing
sprint star Mickael Bourgoin unofficially break the world record
for the 200 metres flying start.


Bourgoin clocked 9.620secs to eclipse the official record held by
flying Dutchman Theo Bos (9.772), last year's double world
champion in the sprint and the keirin.


"The bends (of the velodrome) don't go that high," explained
Bourgoin's coach, Benoit Vetu.


"But they're very wide, and give you a good launchpad to build up
your speed."


Those features will not come into play in Thursday's second gold
medal competition, the men's individual pursuit where Olympic
champion Bradley Wiggins will be confident of claiming gold.


The Briton was absent from the 2006 world championships but
recently dominated the individual pursuit in the Manchester leg
of the World Cup, only his second World Cup since just before the
2000 Olympics in Sydney.


Given his state of mind, he has a good chance of succeeding
Germany's Robert Bartko as the fastest man over 16 laps of the
250-metre track.


"I have never been this relaxed going into a big competition, and
that has come from performing well at Manchester," said Wiggins,
who will also be crucial to Britain's hopes of taking the team's
pursuit title back off Australia.


"That made me extremely confident in my ability and whether that
wins me gold in the individual I don't know as I can't control
what other people do, I just know what I am capable of doing."


Barras meanwhile hopes Australian champion, Phil Thuaux, can
worry the Brit.


"We're really pleased with the progress Phil has made in training
and I expect to see him competitive with the best riders in the
competition," said Barras.


A Wiggins win would boost the hopes of Britain's other gold medal
contenders in the men's and women's team sprint events.


France's Bourgain, Gregory Bauge and Arnaud Tournant beat British
trio Jamie Staff, Craig MacLean and Chris Hoy to the gold medal
last year, and will again be contenders.


However the team sprint is a crown the British men do not give up
easily.


MacLean won two silvers last year, when he also finished second
behind Bos in the blue riband event of the individual sprint.


The powerful Scot, who sets the first lap pace for his two
teammates, is ready to sacrifice his individual medal hopes to
help win gold in the team event.


"I think team sprint has got to take priority so most of my
training is for a first lap effort in that event and then
hopefully I'll ride a decent (individual) sprint off the back of
that," he said.

