

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice wrapped up a Middle East
tour on Tuesday saying Israeli and Palestinian leaders had agreed
to meet every two weeks, but her peace mission appeared to fall
short of its original goals.


Ending four days of shuttle diplomacy, Washington's top diplomat
also urged Arab states to build on a revived five-year-old peace
plan and to reach out to Israel.


She said Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas "have agreed that they plan to meet
together biweekly," adding that she would talk to each party "in
parallel."


"Israelis and Palestinians must clarify a political horizon
together," she told a press conference in Jerusalem.


But she added: "We're not yet at the final status negotiations,"
saying the parties "need to lay the groundwork so when the time
comes those negotiations succeed."


Rice had to scale down her original hopes of advancing the peace
process by getting Olmert and Abbas talking on "core issues," as
called for by the Palestinians, after she encountered Israeli
opposition, according to Israeli media and US officials.


Olmert reportedly balked, saying such talks would reward Abbas
even though he had not delivered on a promise to secure the
release of an Israeli soldier captured by Gaza militants nine
months ago, media and officials said.


He also reportedly rejected the United States overseeing
negotiations between the two sides in what Rice has called a new
approach of "parallel" talks designed to define a "common
agenda," officials said.


"It was an empty (press) conference because of the refusal by the
prime minister to start serious negotiations with the
Palestinians," Yossi Beilin, an MP with the left-wing Meretz
party, was quoted as saying by army radio.


But a senior US official accompanying Rice said the outcome of
the secretary's trip was "a really good result," as Washington
had not expected Israel to agree to regular talks with Abbas.


"It wasn't easy to do, but we got it and the important thing now
is how to use it," the official said, requesting anonymity.


Rice said peace efforts had been complicated by the formation of
a Palestinian unity government led by the radical Islamic
movement Hamas, considered a terror group in the West, whose
armed wing was involved in the serviceman's capture.


"The establishment of a government that is not Quartet compliant
is difficult and it causes complications on the path to the
Palestinian state."


The unity government has refused to abide demands set by the
international Middle East Quartet to renounce violence, recognise
Israel and abide by past peace accords. Israel has in turn
refused to recognise the government.


Rice appealed to US allies in the Arab world to reach out to
Israel to help unblock the stalled peace drive by building on a
plan first floated in 2002.


"Now at this critical moment, we look for our friends and
partners of long standing to build on this important initiative,"
she said.


The blueprint, dusted off ahead of the two-day Riyadh summit,
offers Israel full Arab recognition in exchange for withdrawing
from all occupied Arab land, the creation of a Palestinian state
and the return of refugees.


"The Arab states should begin reaching out to Israel, to reassure
Israel that its place in the region will be more, not less secure
by an end to the occupation and the establishment of a
Palestinian state," she said.


Arab foreign ministers on Monday endorsed the plan and agreed to
set up working groups which would be in contact with all involved
parties, including the Jewish state.


In a change of heart, Olmert has made positive noises about the
initiative and said he was willing to attend a meeting that could
bring Arab and Palestinian leaders together with the Quartet --
the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United
States.


Israel however has called for the refugee clause to be struck out
from the peace plan, something the Arab states have refused to
do.


Abbas described the plan Tuesday as the best since the creation
of the Jewish state and called on Israel to embrace an
opportunity that might not swiftly come again.


"If this initiative is destroyed, I do not believe that a better
chance for peace will present itself in the near future," he told
AFP as he arrived in Riyadh for the Arab summit.


"I think the Arab initiative is the most precious and important
(plan) proposed since 1948 for a solution of the Palestinian
problem and the occupation."

