

Zimbabwe's ruling party on Tuesday postponed a meeting to discuss
president Robert Mugabe's plans to extend his tenure, officials
said, on the eve of an African summit to assess the crisis there.


The delay came as the opposition Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC) said one of their senior officials was abducted at gunpoint
after attending a memorial service for an activist shot dead by
police.


The central committee of the ruling ZANU-PF party had planned to
meet on Wednesday to discuss proposals to extend Mugabe's term
from 2008 until 2010, ostensibly to have simultaneous
presidential and parliamentary polls.


But the gathering, the first since December's party conference
when the extension plans were approved, has been put back for
Mugabe's return from a hastily-arranged regional summit in
Tanzania on Wednesday.


The proposals have met with opposition from party elders since
being given the green light last year, and Mugabe also appears to
have abandoned the idea, urging his supporters last week to gear
up for elections in 2008.


"All I can say is that the central committee is meeting in Harare
on Friday," ZANU-PF spokesman Nathan Shamuyarira said.


He did however confirm that a meeting of the party's political
bureau would take place on Wednesday, but would not say what its
purpose was.


The summit in Tanzania will see leaders from the 14-nation
Southern African Development Community (SADC) meet to discuss the
situation in Zimbabwe, against a backdrop of economic and
political crisis there.


A recent crackdown on the opposition, which left several MDC
leaders hospitalised, provoked strong condemnation from western
powers, but African leaders have taken a softly-softly approach.


Mugabe has consistently warned against outside "interference" and
is set to use the Tanzania summit to justify his crackdown and
portray the MDC as a threat to state security.


But a Tanzanian foreign ministry official said Mugabe and ZANU-PF
would come under pressure from SADC leaders to open talks with
the MDC.


"Who knows? Mugabe may agree even if he is not necessarily the
one to hold talks," the official said on condition of anonymity.


Earlier on Tuesday, the MDC said one of its party officials, Last
Maengahama, was abducted at gunpoint in a suburban shopping
centre by men in plain clothes, and driven away away in a car
without registration plates.


Maengahama, a deputy secretary for local government, was picked
up after attending the memorial service of Gift Tandare, who was
killed at an aborted anti-government rally 15 days ago, MDC
secretary general Tendai Biti said.


"He was a passenger in a car in the company of four other people
when he was approached and taken away," Biti told AFP.


At the memorial service, Tandare was hailed as a martyr to
democracy by the hundreds of opposition supporters, lawmakers,
diplomats and relatives who gathered for the two-hour ceremony.


"Tandare has paid the ultimate price for what we believe in ...
which is to liberate our country," said Lovemore Madhuku, a
constitutional activist who was beaten along with scores of other
opposition supporters when police broke up a prayer rally on
March 11.


Arthur Mutambara, leader of an opposition MDC faction, said
Tandare "is a freedom fighter, a national liberation hero."


Main MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai started his address with a
Shona song saying "no matter how tough it gets ... we have an
agreement, even if we are murdered we have an agreement" (to
continue the struggle).

