

A Russian businessman with suspected links to organised crime
known as "Mad Max" was shot dead Tuesday outside a court in Kiev
where he had just been sentenced for extortion, police said.


Maskim Kurochkin, who had been in jail in the Ukraine since
November 2006, was killed in the internal courtyard of the
courthouse as he was getting into a police van, police spokesman
Volodymyr Polichchuk told Kanal 5 television.


He died soon after from his wounds, the spokesman said, adding
that one of the three police officers who was escorting the
prisoner had been hit by the same bullet and had to be
hospitalised.


"A policeman was wounded. Kurochkin is dead," a judge at the
court, Anatoli Iaselski, was quoted as saying by online daily
Ukrayinska Pravda.


The fatal shot was said to have been fired by a professional and
came from a nearby nine-floor building, the online daily
Korrespondent said. There were two shots fired in total, it
reported.


In court earlier on Tuesday, Kurochkin asked the judge to release
him and place him under house arrest, saying his life was in
danger, Kanal 5 said. "I don't want to die, I ask you to let me
go," he told the judge.


His plea was rejected and according to the TV channel, his last
words to the court were: "I've done my work, I don't regret
coming to the Ukraine."


Kurochkin, who was in his 40s, admitted last year to funding the
electoral campaign of an extreme left, pro-Russian political
party in violation of Ukrainian law.


The Ukrainian police believe the man known as "Mad Max" was a
senior figure in Russian organised crime, and in March 2005 the
country's prosecutors opened three investigations against him.


He was accused of extortion of funds worth up to 10,000 dollars
(7,500 euros) and of obtaining, by favour from the previous
Ukrainian government,  control of hundreds of hectares of land
and several sanatoriums in the Crimea.


Kurochkin, who Kanal 5 said had moved to the Ukraine in 2001 and
who the press said owned property there including a five-star
hotel in the seaside resort of Yalta, always denied the charges
against him.


He also headed a pro-Russian NGO created before the 2004
Ukrainian presidential elections, and was accused of taking part
in electoral fraud in favour of the pro-Russian candidate and now
prime minister Viktor Yanukovich.


In November 2004, Kurochkin was targeted by a car bomb in the
centre of Kiev, but it missed him and severely injured his
bodyguards.

