

Arab leaders kick off a two-day summit in Saudi Arabia on
Wednesday aiming to revive a dormant plan for peace with Israel
and mandate a diplomatic offensive to resolve the Middle East
conflict.


Several world figures, including UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
and EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana, will attend the
inaugural session, which will be addressed by 14 speakers,
according to an Arab minister.


The heads of state of the 22-member Arab League are expected to
adopt resolutions on Iraq as well as Lebanon, which has been
crippled by a months-long political crisis between the anti-
Syrian government and pro-Syrian opposition.


Saudi-led efforts to break the deadlock in the run-up to the
summit failed to yield a breakthrough, but summit host King
Abdullah held talks late Tuesday with Syrian President Bashar al-
Assad for the first time since relations chilled over last
summer's Lebanon war and Syrian policy in that country.


The annual gathering comes after US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice appealed to Arab governments to "begin reaching
out to Israel" by building on the peace blueprint, first adopted
at a summit in Beirut in 2002.


Arab foreign ministers agreed during preparatory talks on Monday
to revive the plan and mandate working teams to seek to initiate
negotiations.


The blueprint offers Israel full normalisation of relations if it
withdraws from all lands it occupied in the 1967 Arab-Israeli
war, and permits the creation of a Palestinian state and the
return of Palestinian refugees.


Saudi Arabia, a US ally and author of the blueprint, lobbied
fellow Arab states to endorse the plan's revival. In doing so, it
has leaned particularly on the Palestinian Islamist movement
Hamas which now leads a brand new government of national unity
with the Fatah party of president Mahmud Abbas.


Hamas prime minister Ismail Haniya is accompanying Abbas to the
summit, which will express support for the unity cabinet and call
for an end to a Western financial boycott imposed since Hamas
first came to power after winning elections last year.


"If this (Arab) initiative is destroyed, I do not believe that a
better chance for peace will present itself in the near future,"
Abbas told AFP after arriving in Riyadh.


Israel rejected the peace blueprint when it was first adopted,
but Israeli leaders have recently spoken of the plan as a
starting point for talks.


Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, however, identified the plan's
insistence on the right of return of Palestinian refugees from
the 1948 Middle East war as a particular stumbling block.


Arab ministers said their offer of talks with all parties
including Israel was intended to address such problems.


Solana told journalists travelling with him to Saudi Arabia that
he hoped that a meeting of the international Middle East peace
Quartet -- EU, Russia, UN and United States -- with key Arab
players can be swiftly arranged to further the peace process.


"We plan for the next Quartet meeting to take place in the region
and if possible another one bringing together the so-called Arab
Quartet," he said.


European sources said that initial plans were being made for a
Quartet meeting at the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh in the
second half of April.


Eventually it is hoped to get Israel involved in the talks.


In contrast with the Palestinian show of unity, Lebanon has two
delegations at the summit, one led by pro-Syrian President Emile
Lahoud and the other by Western-backed Prime Minister Fuad
Siniora.


The Saudi monarch's talks with Syria's Assad were the first since
their countries fell out last summer over the wisdom of
Hezbollah's capture of two Israeli soldiers that sparked a
devastating 34-day Israeli onslaught on Lebanon.


Shiite Hezbollah is backed by both Syria and Iran.


Abdullah later met Siniora, who is close to Riyadh, and was due
to meet Lahoud on Wednesday, according to an official
accompanying the Lebanese president.


The summit is expected to adopt a resolution calling for
amendments to the Iraqi constitution aimed at giving more power
to the former Sunni Arab elite and reversing moves towards a
federal system.


Libya is the only Arab League member boycotting the summit.

