

Ten years after it was first initialled, Russia and Latvia on
Tuesday signed a treaty demarcating their border and bringing
with it the hope of a thaw in relations


"The signing of the treaty does not signify an automatic solution
to all the complicated problems that have accumulated ... in
recent years," said Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov, RIA-
Novosti news agency reported.


He was speaking after he and his Latvian counterpart Aigars
Kalvitis signed the treaty here.


Kalvitis, who two years ago called Moscow's failure to sign the
treaty "the biggest failure of Russian foreign policy in recent
years," expressed hope that Tuesday's signing would bring "a
return to an objective dialogue."


Tensions have remained high between Latvia and Russia since the
three Baltic states regained independence from Moscow in 1991
when the Soviet Union crumbled.


Baltic demands that Moscow apologise for 50 years of Soviet
occupation, which began in 1940, have fallen on deaf ears.


Russia has accused the Baltic states -- Latvia in particular --
of abusing the rights of their large Russian minorities.


But their presence itself is the legacy of the communist policy
of russification of the Baltics during the occupation, when tens
of thousands were deported from the Baltic states and equal
numbers of Russians shipped in.


Moscow and Riga initialled an earlier version of the treaty in
1997.


But Russia subsequently refused to sign the pact after the Baltic
state appended a unilateral declaration that stressed that Latvia
had been occupied by the Soviet Union.


Under the 1997 border treaty, Russia was to keep the 1,294
-square-kilometre (500 -square-mile) Pytalovo district -- known
to Latvians as Abrene -- which Moscow annexed in 1944.


Latvia added an explanatory note to the treaty to say that a 1920
accord in which Russia recognised Latvia's independence and its
border after the fall of the Tsarist empire was still in effect.
That contentious preamble was dropped ahead of Tuesday's signing.


The treaty was welcomed in Washington and Brussels.


"Russia and Latvia, which the United States has recognised
continuously since 1922, have together taken a step toward
constructive regional relations and away from their difficult and
painful past," said a statement issued by the US State
Department.


The European Union welcomed the signing of the long-awaited
treaty which, once ratified by the Latvian and Russian
parliaments, will delineate part of the EU's eastern border.


"It is important for the EU to have legal certainty regarding its
eastern border and this agreement contributes to this," EU
foreign policy chief Javier Solana said in Brussels.


The Russian government's website said the signing of the pact on
the  countries' 276-kilometre border "enables the overcoming of a
wide range of questions and moves the relationship to a
significantly new level."


Latvian President Vaira Vike-Freiberga has called the signing of
the treaty a "step in the right direction" and urged both
countries' parliaments to ratify it.


Even Latvia's northern neighbour Estonia, which signed a border
deal with Moscow two years ago, only to have it thrown out by the
Russians over a contentious preamble appended in Tallinn, hailed
the signing.


The Estonian foreign ministry voiced the hope that "Latvia will
also succeed in reaching the final goal: enactment of the
treaty."


But two parliamentary parties in Latvia have said they could vote
against ratification.


They are New Era, which has 18 seats in the 100-strong
parliament, and the Fatherland and Freedom party, which is a
junior member in Kalvitis' ruling coalition, and has eight
lawmakers.


Meanwhile, Latvian nationalist party Visu Latvijai (Everything to
Latvia) which has no seats in the parliament, ceremonially
dropped off a welding iron at the office of Kalvitis' People's
Party.


It wanted to show its anger at the omission of any mention of
Abrene in the treaty.


"Someone so disrespectful of their responsibility to voters will
not stay in office for long," said the nationalists' leader,
Raivis Dzintars, in a statement.


"So we are giving this welding gear to this big man out of
concern for his future. That way, when he leaves the political
stage, Kalvitis will still have a way of making a living."

