

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana arrived in Riyadh Wednesday
to urge Arab leaders to seize the "window of opportunity" in the
Middle East peace process and offer full support for their
revived peace initiative.


Solana, who flew in from Brussels to address the annual Arab
League summit in Riyadh, was hoping that a meeting of the
international Middle East peace Quartet -- EU, Russia, UN and
United States -- with key Arab players can be swiftly arranged to
further the peace process.


"We plan for the next Quartet meeting to take place in the region
and if possible another one bringing together the so-called Arab
Quartet," he said.


European sources said that initial plans were being made for a
Quartet meeting at the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh in the
second half of April.


Eventually it is hoped to get Israel involved in the talks.


The Arab Quartet comprises of Egypt and Jordan, the only Arab
nations with peace deals with Israel, and Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates, who are also active in reviving the 2002
Arab peace initiative.


On the eve of two-day summit opening on Wednesday Arab foreign
ministers agreed to revive their peace blueprint which offers
Israel full normalisation of relations if it withdraws from all
lands it occupied in 1967, permits the creation of a Palestinian
state and the return of Palestinian refugees.


Solana described the refugee issue as "one of the most
sensitive."


"Clearly Israel is not going to accept a solution which includes
the return of all the Palestinian refugees. This must be part of
the negotiations," he said.


European sources believe that the renewed peace initiative has a
better chance of success than previously due to the strong
efforts of Saudi Arabia which has already succeeding in brokering
the Mecca agreement which allowed for the creation of a
Palestinian unity government joining the rival Hamas and Fatah
factions.


Also now there is general agreement that any solution will be a
two-state solution with Israel and a Palestinian nation living
side by side.


"What we have now and what we didn't have in 2002 is a more
active approach on the Arab side, rather than just publishing its
proposal and saying take it or leave it," one European source
said.


Solana described the recent series of events; the Mecca
agreement, the revival of the peace initiative and the changing
situation in Lebanon as "a window of opportunity" that should be
seized.


Israel rejected the peace blueprint when it was first mooted but
Israeli leaders have recently spoken of the plan as a starting
point for talks.


The Arab side believes that "changes have to be made in the
negotiations, not before," Solana said.


One Arab minister said Tuesday that that others were "declaring
their readiness to open negotiations with the Jewish state about
the modalities of their initiative, namely the thorny question of
Palestinian refugees."


He added that working teams would be set up with Egypt and Jordan
handling the direct contact with the Jewish state.


It is this more active approach to the Middle East problem which
the EU hopes will result in gradual steps to turn the peace plan
into a peace process.


"The Arab League meeting will be interesting to see how much this
becomes a process," said Solana's spokeswoman Cristina Gallach.


"There is clearly an Arab consensus which we haven't seen before
on key issues, with a robust Saudi role."

