

Film footage showing dozens of lifeless dogs being dumped in a
pit outside India's hi-tech hub of Bangalore after being poisoned
has outraged animal rights activists.


The drive to crack down on strays in Bangalore and surrounding
towns in southern Karnataka state began on March 4 after the
killing of two children by packs of dogs triggered public calls
for action.


But animal rights activists are furious after India's NDTV
network showed footage Monday of public workers feeding the dogs
poison and of canine corpses being tipped into an open pit.


The film, secretly shot by an animal rights activist, also
appeared to fly in the face of official promises of no mass
killings.


"This is mass slaughter by an uncaring and arrogant government --
not the selective culling of rabid and infected dogs," said
Savitha Nagabhushan, the activist who filmed the killings on
Sunday in Anekal town, outside Bangalore.


About 60 dead dogs were dumped into the pit on Sunday, she said.


"It's a painful death for the dogs," she added, alleging workers
were being paid 50 rupees (22 cents) for every dog they killed.


"It's against the PCA (India's Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
Act), it's against morality," said Nagabhushan, adding that
police refused to register her cruelty complaint.


Nagabhushan said she went to Anekal after being told cyanide was
being used to kill strays. She said she had earlier filmed a
similar mass killing of dogs in the Mandya district of Karnataka.


C.G. Suprasanna, an official in the municipal administration
directorate, which oversees all local bodies in Karnataka, denied
authorities had sanctioned a mass killing of street dogs.


Municipal workers only had orders for the "mercy killing" of
rabid and infected strays, which first had to be taken to animal
shelters, and to sterilise and free the rest, Suprasanna said.


Those who are flouting instructions "will have to face the
music," the official insisted.


Bangalore authorities have summoned expert dog catchers from the
Malabar region of southern Kerala state to round up strays in the
city, home to nearly seven million people plus an estimated
76,000 stray dogs.


The dogs are a common sight in Bangalore, where they have had a
free run of the streets for decades, from suburban residential
neighbourhoods and middle-class shopping districts to the city
centre.


"These dogs move in packs, they aren't meek animals," municipal
administration official Suprasanna said.


Public anger over the problem was whipped up by the deaths in
Bangalore of a four-year-old boy last month and a nine-year-old
girl a couple of months earlier after they were attacked by
neighbourhood packs.


"There was a barrage of questions from people who said we don't
understand their pain over the loss of children and demanded we
do something," Suprasanna said.


For the past decade, animal welfare centres have partnered the
municipal corporation in administering a birth control programme
for stray dogs. But this has proved ineffective.


"The government is taking the easy way out," said Anuradha
Sawhney, the head of the Indian arm of People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals (PETA).


Killing "doesn't end the problem," she said, calling for a "very
strict birth control programme," a clean-up of rubbish dumps
where dogs feed and a campaign to persuade people not to abandon
pets.

