

Lawyers for Australian David Hicks met Tuesday with prosecutors
here to hammer out terms of his guilty plea on a terrorism charge
even as rights groups questioned the legitimacy of the
extraordinary proceedings, a US official said.


The talks were the first step in clearing the way for sentencing
and Hicks's anticipated transfer from the US-run prison at
Guantanamo Bay to Australia, where he will likely serve out his
punishment under an agreement between the United States and
Australia.


US military officers struck an optimistic tone that the case -- a
long-running political headache for the Australian government --
would be settled promptly.


"There's a strong desire from the Australian and US governments,
and by the prosecution and defense lawyers, to resolve the case,"
said a US defense department official, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


Australia's conservative government, anxious to defuse criticism
that it was slow to defend the interests of one of its citizens,
has lobbied hard for Washington to bring a quick resolution of
the Hicks case.


An Australian delegation was at the US naval base in Guantanamo
closely monitoring the proceedings, including a representative of
the attorney general's office, an Australian diplomat said.


Hicks, 31, who spent more than five years at the Guantanamo
prison, is the first detainee to be charged by the new military
tribunals, set up to hold war crimes trials against Al-Qaeda and
similar terror suspects.


He pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training camps, but did
not admit to carrying out any attacks. US authorities had once
accused him of attempted murder and aiding the enemy but later
dropped the charges.


Human rights groups say the tribunals are inherently flawed and
that Hicks's plea underlined why the Guantanamo prison should be
shut and inmates tried in regular US courts.


"Hick's guilty plea should not be seen as legitimizing in any way
an utterly illegal system of off-shore penal colonies, abuse, and
trials' that violate fundamental due process rights," the Center
for Constitutional Rights said in a statement.


While the Bush administration has called the detainees at
Guantanamo the "worst of the worst," even prosecutors did not
claim Hicks, a former kangaroo skinner, as a top terror suspect.


His father, Terry Hicks, said his son may have been innocent and
pleaded guilty to secure his transfer from Guantanamo.


"As far as I'm concerned this was a way out for David, regardless
of whether he's guilty or innocent. We will never ever know now,"
Hicks said in an interview with Australian Broadcasting Corp.


Under the rules of the tribunals, lawyers on both sides must
agree on the specific facts of the charge before approval by the
military judge. The talks appeared to be moving ahead on
schedule, a Pentagon official said.


A panel of military officers will likely determine his sentence
later in the week, with prosecutors saying time spent in
Guantanamo and his guilty plea will be mitigating factors.


He faces a maximum life sentence under the tribunal rules but the
chief prosecutor, Colonel Morris Davis, has ruled out a life
term.

