

US lawmakers voiced alarm Tuesday about surging home
foreclosures, as over 500,000 Americans face losing their homes,
and debated reforms to boost policing of mortgage lending.


Congress is worried about spiking home foreclosures and the
collapse of several mortgage lenders, fearing it could worsen a
housing slump and derail the world's biggest economy.


Over 500,000 mortgages, or 1.19 percent of all loans, were in
foreclosure at the end of the fourth quarter of 2006, according
to the Mortgage Bankers Association, and studies suggest over two
million Americans could lose their properties.


Foreclosure rates on some mortgages have hit "peak levels" last
seen during the 2001 recession, according to Goldman Sachs, and
alarm bells are ringing loudly in Congress.


Lawmakers on a House Financial Services subcommittee called a
hearing Tuesday to assess possible legislative fixes to avert the
situation worsening.


Democratic Representative Carolyn Maloney said reforms were
needed to clamp down on unscrupulous lenders.


"I remain committed to passing legislation that protects
borrowers," said Republican Spencer Bachus.


The Federal Reserve swung into action earlier this month and is
mulling tighter lending standards, including guidelines that
would require banks to ensure consumers are able to repay home
loans.


Consumer advocates say unscrupulous mortgage brokers, who are
largely unregulated, peddled loans to many Americans,
particularly minorities, based on an initial low "teaser"
interest rate that soon kicks into a much higher rate.


The Washington Post newspaper cited an example this week of an
illiterate carpenter who was able to buy a 750,000 dollar house
in Virginia.


Hundreds of thousands of Americans face having their homes
repossessed as a result of such loans, known as adjustable rate
mortgages (ARMs). Such problems are worse in the "subprime"
sector, which covers loans sold to people with patchy credit
histories.


Government regulators at the hearing admitted worries, but some
industry executives cautioned Congress against over-reacting.


"A national anti-predatory lending standard would help assure
basic uniform protections for all borrowers," said Sheila Bair,
the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which
was set up during the Great Depression to support banking
liquidity.


John Robbins, the chairman of the Mortgage Bankers Association,
appeared to support Bair's stance, saying he has been deeply
troubled by some lenders' behavior.


"The mortgage market is desperate for a rewrite of the nation's
settlement laws and a strong uniform lending standard to trap
predators and bring them to justice," Robbins said.


The National Association of Mortgage Brokers, however, cautioned
lawmakers against establishing a national registration system for
brokers, saying it would not protect consumers from predatory
lending.


But NAMB President Harry Dinham said the group would support a
move to boost standards for brokers and said mortgage originators
should undergo criminal background checks.

