

US defense contractor ITT Corp. agreed to pay 100 million
dollars, one of the largest fines ever in a criminal case, for
the illegal export of night vision technology to China and other
countries, authorities said Tuesday.


ITT, the leading manufacturer of night vision equipment for the
US armed forces, agreed to plead guilty to the charge and thus
became the first major defense contractor convicted of a criminal
violation of the Arms Export Control Act, the Justice Department
said.


According to a plea agreement to be filed in US District Court in
Roanoke, Virginia, the firm will plead guilty to one count each
of export of defense articles without a license and omission of
statements of material facts in arms exports reports.


The government said ITT released to China, Singapore and Britain
without proper export licenses technical information used for
night vision systems. This includeed information about a laser
counter "light interference filter" for night vision goggles.


Companies are required to have a State Department license or
written authorization before exporting them.


"The sensitive night vision systems produced by ITT Corporation
are critical to US war-fighting capability and are sought by our
enemies and allies alike," said Assistant Attorney General
Kenneth Wainstein.


"ITT's exportation of this sensitive technology to China and
other nations jeopardized our national security and the safety of
our military men and women on the battlefield."


The US official said the prosecution "addresses the violations of
the past, ensures compliance in the future, and serves as a
strong warning to others who might be tempted by the profits of
such illegal exports."


Part of the fine may be offset by investments in new technology
for the US military, under the agreement.


ITT said in a separate statement it cooperated with officials and
agreed to tighten compliance measures.


"We have been cooperating with the government in this
investigation and we have voluntarily disclosed all discrepancies
that our internal reviews revealed," said Steven Loranger,
chairman, president and chief executive.


"While this settlement relates to the actions of a few
individuals in one of our 15 business units, we regret very much
that these serious violations occurred.


"I want to reinforce, however, that the heart of our night vision
goggles -- the tube -- is secure. No technical information
regarding the tube was ever compromised."


The monetary penalties in the case include a two-million dollar
criminal fine, a 50 million-dollar deferred prosecution penalty,
and the forfeiture of 28 million dollars in illegal gains. ITT
will also pay a 20 million-dollar penalty to the Department of
State.


Payment of the 50 million-dollar deferred prosecution penalty
will be suspended for five years. ITT can reduce this penalty by
investing in more advanced night vision technology, officials
said.


According to a Justice Department document, the violations date
back to 1998 when a manager overrode an employee's objection and
ordered a shipment of night vision equipment to Singapore.


A 2004 consent decree with US officials required ITT to pay an
eight million dollar fine. But a subsequent investigation found
that the violations were more widespread than had been disclosed
at the time.


ITT provided technical information to Singapore that was
subsequently transferred to China for the manufacturing of
lenses.


Violations continued through 2005, according to the document. In
one case a subcontract with a Japanese firm was improperly
outsourced to China. Other classified information was sent to a
British company for a possible contract on lens coatings.


ITT had 7.8 billion dollars in 2006 sales and has activities in
engineering as well as defense communications and electronics and
space surveillance and intelligence systems.


ITT was once the acronym for International Telephone and
Telegraph, and underwent several transformations, at first a key
telecommunications firm and later a major conglomerate that held
hotel and insurance interests before being split up.


The current ITT Corp. was previously known as ITT Industries, one
of those created from the splitup.

