

Draft resolutions before Arab League leaders gathering in Riyadh
on Wednesday reaffirm the commitment of the 22 members to a 2002
Middle East peace plan.


They also call for lifting an international blockade on the
Palestinians and urge an amendment to the Iraqi constitution.


The main draft resolution before the two-day summit proposes
reactivating the plan offering normal ties with Israel if it
fully withdraws from all land it occupied in 1967, permits an
independent Palestinian state and allows the return of
Palestinian refugees.


It mandates a ministerial committee formed when the plan was
first adopted at an Arab summit in Beirut to set up working teams
to contact the international Quartet -- the United States,
European Union, United Nations and Russia -- as well as the
"parties concerned" and UN Security Council members.


Such contacts would aim to result in negotiations leading to a
comprehensive and just settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict.


Edited excerpts from other draft resolutions, copies of which
were obtained by AFP:


1) Palestinians:


The Arab League council at summit level:


- affirms total support for the (Hamas-Fatah) Mecca accord.


- urges all Arab states to support the Palestinian president and
his national unity government to enable it to address the needs
of the Palestinian people.


- calls on states and international organisations to immediately
lift the blockade on the Palestinians.


- calls on the international community to resume aid to the
Palestinian National Authority and the Palestinian people.


- reaffirms Arab commitment to a just and comprehensive peace as
a strategic option and reaffirms that the peace process is
comprehensive and indivisible.


- calls on Arab states to continue supporting the budget of the
Palestinian National Authority for a year from April 1, 2007, in
keeping with previous resolutions.


2) Iraq:


- respect for its unity, sovereignty, independence and Arab and
Islamic identity and rejection of partition and interference in
internal Iraqi affairs.


- the government should be a real national unity admiistration. A
solution to the crisis depends on the government and politicians
and the support of Arab and neighbouring states for efforts to
achieve national reconciliation with the following goals:


-- broadening the political process to ensure wider
participation.


-- eliminating sectarian dissensions and holding an inclusive
accord conference.


-- reviewing contentious constitutional previsions with a view to
achieving national entente.


-- reviewing the de-Baathification law so it does not lead to
political revenge.


-- fair distribution of resources in all regions and among all
Iraqis.


-- dismantling all militias.


-- building the armed and security forces on nationalist and
professional bases leading to the departure of all foreign
forces.


3) Lebanon:


- affirms total solidarity with Lebanon and Arab commitment to
provide political and economic support to the government that
would safeguard national unity and stability, security and
sovereignty over its entire territory.


- supports and adopts the seven-point plan proposed by the
government.


- underlines that within the framework of a Lebanese consensus on
the principle of an international tribunal, revealing the truth
(about political crimes in Lebanon) helps to establish justice.


- calls on all factions to hold a national dialogue, exert every
effort to end the political crisis and current divisions and
respect the Lebanese constitution and the Taef Accord.


4) Syria:


- rejects the so-called "Syria Accountability Act" and urges the
United States to reconsider it.


5) Somalia:


- hails the African Union decision to send forces to back
stability there, urges member states to support the government
and hails the transitional government's call for a national
reconciliation conference on April 16.


6) Nuclear:


- calls for an extraordinary meeting of the league ministerial
council to assess Arab efforts to rid the Middle East of nuclear
arms and weapons of mass destruction.


- calls for formulating an Arab vision to deal with this issue in
the light of Israel's tendency to break with its policy of
nuclear ambiguity.


- calls on Arab countries to use peaceful nuclear technology in
all domains that promote development while respecting all
international accords.

