

White House spokesman Tony Snow was been diagnosed with a
recurrence of cancer, President George W. Bush said Tuesday,  and
the disease has spread to his liver.


"It's a recurrence of the cancer that he thought that he had
successfully dealt with in the past. His attitude is ... that he
is not going to let this whip him, and he's upbeat," Bush told
journalists after speaking with Snow by telephone.


Snow, 51, who survived a bout with colon cancer in 2005, had
surgery Monday to remove a growth in his abdomen.


"I've just spoken to him but unfortunately the growth was
cancerous, there has been some metastasis," White House deputy
spokeswoman Dana Perino told journalists. She said the cancer had
spread to Snow's liver.


A tearful Perino said Snow declined to give further specifics
until he decides on a course of treatment, but added that he was
"in very good spirits."


"He is in consultations with his doctors on chemotherapy
treatments," she said, adding that Snow intends to be "going
after it as aggressively as he can" and that he will "beat it
again."


Snow, a former journalist on television and radio programs
including Fox News, gave his first briefing as Bush's official
spokesman in 2006 after being appointed despite having criticized
Bush in the past.


The president interrupted his schedule to appear before reporters
and express his support for his spokesman.


"Obviously, a lot of folks here in the White House worry a lot
about their friend, as do (my wife) Laura and I," he said.


"And so my message to Tony is, stay strong; a lot of people love
you and care for you and will pray for you.  And we're hoping for
all the best.


"In the meantime, I hope our fellow citizens offer a prayer to he
and his family," the president said.


Snow was the second high-profile political figure to announce a
recurrence of cancer in a week. On Thursday Elizabeth Edwards,
the wife of Democratic presidential hopeful John Edwards, said
her breast cancer had spread to her bones and could not be cured.


Edwards paid tribute to Snow after Tuesday's announcement,
recalling that the spokesman had himself expressed sympathy over
Elizabeth Edwards' illness.


"Tony has been an incredible example for people living with
cancer and cancer survivors -- he lives every day to the fullest
and faces every challenge with courage and determination,"
Edwards said in a statement.

