

A chastened FBI director Robert Mueller pleaded with lawmakers
Tuesday not to scale back special US anti-terror powers, after
his agency breached its authority to obtain suspects' personal
records.


"The statute did not cause the errors -- the FBI's implementation
of the statute did," Mueller told a hearing of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, referring to special powers granted under
the USA Patriot Act.


"Mistakes made with regard to national security letters are
simply not acceptable ... These deficiencies are being
addressed," Mueller said.


"The FBI is acutely aware that we cannot protect against national
security or criminal threats at the expense of civil liberties."


The Federal Bureau of Investigation faces calls from some
quarters to be stripped of the tough powers to investigate
suspected terrorist activity that were introduced after the
September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.


"We're going to be re-examining the broad authorities we granted
the FBI in the Patriot Act," said the Senate committee's
Democratic chairman, Patrick Leahy Tuesday.


"It seems to me the FBI is again at a crossroads. Some are
calling on Congress to take away the FBI's domestic intelligence
functions, create a separate domestic intelligence, like
Britain's MI5," he added.


A March 9 audit report by the US Justice Department found 22
possible breaches of internal regulations regarding letters used
by the FBI to obtain the personal records of US residents or
visitors between 2003 and 2005.


The so-called "national security letters" were sent to banks,
Internet providers, phone companies and libraries ordering them
to release personal data on customers under surveillance in
counterterrorism investigations.


But reports surfaced this month that the FBI had not observed
proper procedures in issuing the letters.


In one case, a senior FBI official signed letters without
including the required proof that they were linked to FBI
counterterrorism or espionage investigations.


The head of a US Justice Department probe into the matter, Glenn
Fine, acknowledged the mistakes were probably not intentional.


Nevertheless he found "serious misuse" of national security
letters.


Mueller pointed to an array of possible terror plots foiled in
recent years by US law enforcement agents -- including threats
against the New York Stock Exchange, US military facilities,
Jewish synagogues in the Los Angeles area and the Brooklyn Bridge
-- to argue that the national security letters are needed more
than ever.


They are "essential .. to our efforts in the war on terror," he
told the senators, vowing that his agency would clean up its act.


"No one in the FBI wants to jeopardize the important tools the
Congress has provided to us to protect the country against a
terrorist attack," he said.


The revelations added to political pressure on the administration
of President George W. Bush, facing a controversy over the
sacking of several top prosecutors who critics say were dismissed
for political reasons.


Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, head of the Justice
Department, which oversees the FBI, is facing calls to resign
over the dismissals.

