

Matthew Hayden's record-breaking 158 was the backbone of reigning
champions Australia's 322 for six against the West Indies in the
first Super Eight clash of this World Cup here Tuesday.


Hayden's hundred, his second in as many matches, was the highest
score by an Australian at the World Cup, surpassing the 143 not
out made by Andrew Symonds four years ago against Pakistan in
Johannesburg.


This innings came after Hayden's 101 in Saturday's 83-run win
against South Africa, in what was the first major match at the
Sir Vivian Richards Stadium.


It was also the 35-year-old left-handed opener's third hundred in
as many one- day internationals against Test nations following
his Australian record 181 not out against New Zealand last month
in Hamilton.


And yet for all his bludgeoning hitting later on, Hayden
struggled at the start of his innings with the Queenslander
taking 18 balls to get off the mark.


However, West Indies may take some heart from the fact the four
highest totals to win batting second in one-day internationals
have all been made against Australia since the 2005/06 season.


Shane Watson was 33 not out and Brad Hogg unbeaten on five.


It was no surprise when West Indies captain Brian Lara decided to
field first in overcast conditions on an outfield slowed by early
morning rain.


Australia lost Adam Gilchrist for seven when he was caught behind
by opposing wicket-keeper Dinesh Ramdin off an inside-edge
against Daren Powell.


It was not until the last ball of the seventh over, when captain
Ricky Ponting hooked paceman Powell for six, that Australia
started to up the rate. Hayden then drove the next two
deliveries, from Powell's fellow quick Jerome Taylor, for fours
past mid-off.


Ponting had looked in good touch on his way to making 35 off 36
balls before having survived one attempt on 16, ran himself out
when he went for a non- existent single off Taylor and Ramnaresh
Sarwan at extra-cover hit the stumps at the bowler's end.


Australia, now 76 for two in the 15th over, almost lost Clarke in
similar fashion as the innings entered a jittery phase.


And Hayden himself would have been out for 28 if Lara's throw
from mid-on had hit after he'd been sent back by Clarke.


Clarke found his form before Hayden reached fifty in typical
fashion, advancing down the pitch to drive the off-spin of Chris
Gayle, bowling in a cap, down the ground for four.


But a stand of 98 in 16 overs which moved Australia onto 174 for
three ended when medium-pacer Dwayne Bravo had Clarke lbw for 41
off just 42 balls.


Hayden completed his ninth one-day international hundred in 110
balls with one six and eight fours.


Hayden then opened up, driving Taylor for six over long-on,
lofting him wide of long-off for four and driving him high over
long-on again for a six into the upper tier of the stands for
three boundaries in as many balls.


Finesse followed force when Hayden late cut Samuels down to third
man only for the next ball to be slammed over long-on for six by
the Queenslander.


The onslaught was halted briefly when rain, which had been
falling steadily, stopped play with Australia 286 for five in the
47th over and Hayden unbeaten on 153.


But the first ball back saw Hayden thrash Corey Collymore for
four past the fumbling Dwayne Smith on the long-off boundary
before his innings ended when he chipped Bravo to Samuels at
long-off having faced 143 balls with four sixes and 14 fours.

