

The Quebec independence movement was in doubt Tuesday, dealt a
crushing blow overnight with the third-place loss of its standard
bearer, the separatist Parti Quebecois in provincial elections.


The separatist party won only 36 seats in Canada's French-
speaking province's 125-seat National Assembly, down from 45, and
its worst result since emerging in 1976 to challenge the
federalist status quo.


Its grip on the Quebec nationalist vote weakened by an unexpected
surge of the novice rightwing Action democratique du Quebec
(ADQ), the Parti Quebecois is now likely to pressure leader Andre
Boisclair to resign as chief.


"The conventional wisdom used to be that the separatists could
run a monkey in the 'heartland' and still coast to easy victory
there," a Globe and Mail editorial said Tuesday.


"Not, apparently, if the monkey's leader is urbane, gay and a
one-time cocaine user," the Toronto-based newspaper quipped about
PQ leader Boisclair.


At the start of the campaign in late February, analysts believed
federalist Liberal Premier Jean Charest would win a second term
and stave off a plebiscite on Quebec independence for five years,
a prescribed term.


Quebec separatists held and lost two referendums on breaking away
from Canada in 1980 and 1995. Federalists narrowly won the second
ballot.


But an unexpected surge in support for the ADQ, which favors more
autonomy for Quebec but not independence, reduced the Liberals'
majority and drained significant votes from the Parti Quebecois,
which had vowed to hold a referendum if it won the election.


By early Tuesday the Liberals had only pieced together a minority
government with 48 seats, while the neophyte ADQ led by 36-year-
old Mario Dumont had delivered the biggest upset in Quebec
political history by winning 41 seats, trumping the separatists.


"The result points to a rejection of the Quebec independence
debate, as it has been conducted for 40 years. Voters sought a
third way which is nationalist but against independence,
federalist but also assertive," said columnist Andre Pratte in La
Presse.


"The Parti Quebecois must reflect on its future or risk being
permanently replaced by the ADQ as the dominant voice of Quebec
nationalism," he said.


The ADQ had seized on Quebecers' dream of nationhood and their
butterflies at letting go of Canada, offering a compromise
alternative to the staunch federalists and hardline separatists.


They also exploited the electorate's impatience with Premier
Charest over broken promises on tax cuts and better health care.


The ADQ was not expected to form a government, but won enough
seats Monday to ordain the first Quebec minority government since
1878 by rousing a dormant demographic -- rural Quebec nationalist
conservatives.


After 1976, they had migrated to the Parti Quebecois, aligning
themselves with urban social democrats in Montreal, Canada's
third largest metropolis, to try to build a Quebec nation.


In this election, with no referendum on the horizon in an
expected minority situation and Parti Quebecois chief Boisclair
deemed an anemic leader, Quebec conservatives gravitated to the
ADQ.


In losing his majority, Charest is expected to face pressure to
resign as party leader.


As well, a minority Liberal government now leaves the door open a
crack to an early election and a possible vote on Quebec
independence thereafter, with hostile separatists and Quebec
nationalists in opposition.


"A few seats, a few thousand votes separated us from victory ...
Millions of us still dream of an independent Quebec," PQ leader
Andre Boisclair said in defeat.


Indeed, separatists may find solace in the fact that support for
Quebec independence remains high -- at almost 50 percent --
despite the Parti Quebecois's dismal showing with only 28 percent
of the popular vote.


"It would be foolhardy to write off separatism as a substantial
factor in Quebec politics," the Globe and Mail commented.


"Many voters may simply have parked their support with the ADQ
because they weren't keen on PQ leader Andre Boisclair."

