

Rubbing shoulders with the rich, on a frenzied dash for cash,
2008 White House hopefuls are busily stuffing millions of dollars
into election war chests before a looming campaign finance
deadline.


Hillary Clinton, fresh from a fundraiser in California's swank
Beverly Hills, is by all accounts racking up staggering paydays
from Democratic donors.


Her top Democratic rival Senator Barack Obama, and Republican
front-runner and former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani are also
among the pack out chasing big bucks ahead of Saturday's end of
first-quarter fundraising.


"The numbers are going to be quite astronomical and different
from what we have seen in the past," said Boston University
professor Julian Zelizer.


Money is often dubbed the "mother's milk" of US politics, and is
as vital to a candidate as policies and charm.


But the 2008 election, tipped to be the most expensive ever at
around one billion dollars, is putting a higher premium on the
early cash grab, 10 months before any voters come into the
equation.


Next year could effectively see two national elections -- a
sprint towards primary and caucus nominating contests, many
squeezed into January and February, then a long haul to the
Republican-Democrat head-to-head in November.


"Fundraising ability is going to be synonymous with viability,"
said Costas Panagopoulos, assistant professor of political
science at Fordham University in New York.


"The candidates with the most money are advantaged in a severely
frontloaded primary season."


Candidates need to bankroll multiple cross-country charter
flights, armies of consultants and early nationwide television
advertising blitzes. Those with high hopes are already
stockpiling cash for the national campaign.


For pacesetting candidates, the requirment to close first-quarter
accounts is a test of popularity and fundraising muscle.


For those struggling to catch up, it could end their White House
dreams.


Already one minor contender, former Iowa governor Tom Vilsack --
on the principle of "if you can't beat them, join them" -- has
folded his campaign and signed up to work for Clinton.


And even well known hopefuls can struggle.


Senator John McCain, who has seen his Republican lead dissolve,
has warned his fundraising will fall short of expectations -- but
has no option but to trudge the money trail.


"Our campaign is fast approaching a critical deadline," McCain
wrote to supporters in a plea for funds Tuesday.


"Unfortunately, we cannot change the fact that this is how the
press, political pundits and others will look at the financial
and political momentum behind our campaign."


No one can accurately forecast how much each candidate will
raise, given the secrecy and the game of lowering expectations
that accompanies such deadlines.


On the Democratic side, Clinton is expected to come in first with
some estimates of at least 20 million dollars. Obama may roll in
next, ahead of Edwards.


Among Republicans, the game appears closer, but with no reliable
forecasts available.


Campaigns make no secret of the importance attached to the March
31 deadline when they must tot up money raised in the first
quarter of the year and report to the Federal Election
Commission.


Clinton appears to be hoping to leverage the deadline to
intimidate rivals and cement her front-runner status.


Former president Bill Clinton Tuesday gazed mistily from a short
film on his wife's web site, saying "I hope you will send in a
contribution, and please, do it before the March 31 deadline." An
online form solicited credit card pledges of between 10 and 4,600
dollars.


According to the New York Daily News, Hillary Clinton piled up a
stunning 10 million dollars in fundraising in just the last week.
She has also had a lucrative first few months on the campaign
trail and 11 million dollars left over from her 2006 Senate
campaign.


Obama has sparred with the former first lady's operatives, after
attempting to siphon off cash from the Hollywood fundraising
fiefdom of former president Clinton.


One name to watch on the Republican side is former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, who has a pack of powerful executive
contacts after a successful business career and is being tipped
by some experts to spring a surprise.


Tuesday, after a clutch of trips to Republican finance hunting
grounds in Texas, he unveiled a statewide finance committee
packed with corporate CEOs and Managing Directors, in a key
demonstration of viability.

