

Scotland manager Alex McLeish admitted he would be more than
happy to take a point from Wednesday's crucial Euro 2008
qualifying match here against world champions Italy.


A draw for the Scots - who together with France top Group B on 12
points - would maintain their five-point lead over the Italians
and leave them in a strong position to reach next year's
tournament in Austria and Switzerland.


"I don't think many people would bet on us winning this game and
to stop Italy we will have to be at our very best," McLeish,
whose managerial reign began with a last-gasp 2-1 Group B win
over Georgia last weekend, told a news conference here on
Tuesday.


"It's a massive challenge as we are playing against some world
class players and Serie A is one of the best leagues in world, so
we are under no illusions.


"But we are confident. No Scottish team has taken a point from a
qualifying match in Italy, and we would like to make history."


Italy have lost on all of their five previous visits to Italy,
three competitive matches and two friendlies.


When asked was it possible to play for a draw against the world
champions, McLeish replied: "We play within a strategy that can
get you opportunities when you have the ball."


McLeish's counterpart Roberto Donadoni, who according to some
media reports could be sacked if the Azzurri lose on Wednesday,
was equally cautious.


"It's a massive game and it would be a mistake to risk everything
and be overly committed," he said.


"We have to play with our heads and with great conviction, but we
also have to be patient."


Donadoni said Scotland, whose best result in the group was a 1-0
home win over beaten World Cup finalists France, were worthy of
their place at the top of the group.


"I'm not surprised they're top, and they are there on merit,"
said the former AC Milan and Italy midfielder.


"They play with great spirit and character and we are expecting a
real battle."


Italy received a massive boost when first-choice goalkeeper
Gianluigi Buffon resumed training on Tuesday.


The Juventus keeper sat out Monday's work-out as a precaution
after being laid low by a stomach bug, forcing Donadoni to call
up Udinese's Morgan De Sanctis as cover.


Buffon showed no sign of difficulty as he took part in a full
training session in torrential rain at the San Nicola stadium and
is set to start Wednesday's match.


Italy are expected to line up in a 4-2-3-1 formation with Buffon
protected by a back four of, from right to left, Massimo Oddo,
Fabio Cannavaro, Marco Materazzi and Gianluca Zambrotta.


Gennaro Gattuso and Daniele De Rossi are likely to anchor the
midfield with Mauro Camoranesi, Simone Perrotta and Antonio Di
Natale playing in more advanced roles. Luca Toni will probably
play as a lone striker.


McLeish said he had chosen his starting side, but refused to
disclose it.

