

The US Senate on Tuesday for the first time approved a measure
tying funding for the war in Iraq to a timetable for withdrawing
US troops.


By vote of 48 to 50, the Senate rejected a Republican measure
that would have stripped language imposing a March 2008 deadline
from an emergency funding bill for Iraq and Afghanistan.


The vote puts Democrats a step closer to prevailing in their bid
to pull US troops from war-ravaged Iraq.


"Today was a significant step forward in our efforts to change
course in Iraq and makes America more secure," top Senate
Democrat Harry Reid said after the vote.


He said the result was a pointed message to US President George
W. Bush that the time had come for a radical policy shift in Iraq
-- starting with the redeployment of US troops.


"With this vote, the Senate is giving our troops the resources
they need in combat -- including a strategy in Iraq worthy of
their sacrifices," he said.


"The president must change course, and this legislation gives him
a chance to do that," the Senate leader continued.


A vote on the entire supplemental spending bill is expected later
in the week. Bush has promised to veto the measure, over the
extra spending as well as the deadline for troop pullout.


Bush "is disappointed that the Senate continues down a path with
a bill that he will veto and has no chance of becoming law," his
deputy press secretary, Dana Perino, said in a statement.


"In the two weeks since the Senate defeated a similar proposal,
General (David) Petraeus reports encouraging signs are already
emerging. The Senate, which unanimously confirmed the General for
this mission, needs to support him by providing our troops the
funding they need -- not by mandating failure," she added.


Democrats said voter disgust with the course of events there
prompted many voters to choose them over Bush's Republican party
in the November 2006 election.


With Iraq teetering on the brink of civil war, they said, it is
time to accelerate moves to withdraw US forces.


"Nothing else has been successful in convincing the Iraqis that
they have to take responsibility for their own country, and that
they must make the political compromises that are necessary to
end the sectarian violence and defeat the insurgency in Iraq," US
Senator Carl Levin, top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said.


"Only when the Iraqis realize that the mission of US forces in
Iraq is changing and that we are going to reduce the number of US
forces in Iraq, will they realize that we cannot save them from
themselves and that they need to act to meet the commitments they
made to us and to themselves," he said shortly before the vote.


The amendment by Senator Thad Cochran, and backed by virtually
all of his fellow Republicans, came on the second day of Senate
debate over sending an additional 121.6 billion dollars for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The language on withdrawing US troops is nearly identical to the
wording of a bill that failed in the Senate two weeks ago,
prompting Republicans complain that Democrats were needlessly
holding up funding to the troops to make a political point.


"We need to be speeding this funding to our troops rather than
slowing it down by returning to a debate already settled by the
Senate," Cochran said as he introduced his amendment on Monday.


The measure is 20 billion dollars more than the president's 103
-billion-dollar request, and includes some domestic spending
measures such as Hurricane Katrina recovery.


The House of Representatives last week narrowly passed its own
124-billion- dollar version of the spending bill for the wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, including a firm deadline for getting US
troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


The bill that squeaked through the House approved 124 billion
dollars in emergency funding for the war.


Saturday, Bush warned in his weekly radio address that if
Congress does not approve a cash infusion for Iraq and
Afghanistan by April 15, the forces in both countries "will face
significant disruptions."

