

Argentina on Tuesday scrapped a deal with Britain to share oil
found off the Falkland Islands, which both countries claim,
Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana said.


Taiana said Argentina made the move to end the cooperation
arrangement because Britain unilaterally opted to put out for
public bid oil deals in the area in the South Atlantic.


"Argentina does not oppose cooperating with the United Kingdom,
so long as this contributes to reopening talks about the islands'
sovereignty," the top Argentine diplomat said.


The two countries went to war 25 years ago on April 2, 1982, over
control of the Falklands, which Argentina calls the Malvinas.


Taiana spoke to reporters after meeting President Nestor Kirchner
on the matter.


"Argentina has asked the United Kingdom for open dialogue," he
said.


"Unfortunately, the persistent intransigence of the United
Kingdom has not allowed for frank discussion."


Seismic studies around the archipelago indicate as much as 60
billion barrels of crude lie in ocean-bed structures.


Taiana said he had informed Britain's ambassador to Buenos Aires,
John Hughes, about the decision.


A joint declaration on South-west Atlantic Offshore Cooperation
Activities had sealed the deal to share oil exploration and
production, on September 27, 1995.


Taiana said Argentine former president Carlos Menem had said that
the declaration would "allow Argentina to join the exploration
and exploitation of crude in the area."


"But in practical terms, it never happened," Taiana said.


Test wells drilled in 1998 by Shell and Amerada Hess hit oil,
though not of sufficient quality or volume to be marketable.


Ten-dollar-a-barrel oil then was not attractive, but recent
rising prices could spark greater interest in the seas off the
islands.


Some fear that Buenos Aires would take even keener interest in
the islands if oil were struck there.


Argentina has repeatedly reaffirmed its "permanent and
inalienable objective" of reclaiming the islands, which have been
British-ruled for 174 years.


Argentina finds it "incomprehensible" Britain refuses to discuss
the claim although the United Nations and Organization of
American States urged the countries to "renew bilateral
negotiations."


The two governments re-established diplomatic relations in 1990.


Argentina says British forces occupied the islands on January 3,
1833, and "removed by force its residents and Argentine
authorities who were established there legitimately."


In April 1982, Argentina's military regime invaded the islands.
More than 900 people died, including 655 Argentines, 255 British
troops and three Falkland Islanders, before Argentine forces
surrendered on June 14.


The regime launched the attack to distract attention from the
domestic economy and human rights abuses, but the humiliating
defeat helped bring down the military, and Argentina returned to
democracy in 1983.

