

A UN human rights expert on Tuesday called for the release of all
political prisoners in Myanmar, including journalist and poet Win
Tin -- regarded as the country's longest serving political
prisoner.


"The path to democracy to which the government has committed
itself is one in which there is no place for political
prisoners," the UN Special Rapporteur on Myanmar, Paulo Sergio
Pinheiro, said in a statement.


"Rather, processes of national reconciliation and democratic
transition are invariably facilitated by the release of all
political prisoners," he added.


The United Nations estimates that 1,200 political prisoners are
held by the military regime in Myanmar for "peacefully exercising
their rights to freedom of expression, assembly and association."


Win Tin, who has been in prison since July 4, 1989, spent his
77th birthday earlier this month in a prison cell in Yangon,
Pinheiro said.


"The Special Rapporteur wishes to take this opportunity to appeal
to the Government of the Union of Myanmar to release Win Tin and
all remaining political prisoners," he added.


Win Tin has been sentenced three times since 1989 and is
currently serving a further seven years for writing to the United
Nations to highlight the ill treatment and poor conditions of
political prisoners, Pinheiro said.


Burmese junta chief Than Shwe on Tuesday marked Armed Forces Day
by vowing to "crush, hand-in-hand with the entire people, every
danger of internal and external destructive elements obstructing
the stability and development of the state."


The public was barred from a military parade marking the
beginning of resistance to Japanese occupation during World War
II, which took place in Myanmar's newly and secretly built
capital, Naypyidaw.


Imprisoned opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi's National League
for Democracy observes the occasion as Resistance Day, marking
the rebellion against Japan and British colonial rule.


Win Tin was a close aide to Suu Kyi, who has spent most of the
last 17 years under house arrest.

