

The Scottish Nationalist Party, which campaigns for full
independence, will be the biggest single group in the region's
assembly, accordign to a poll published Wednesday, less than six
weeks before the election.


The Populus survey for The Times newspaper showed that the SNP is
heading for 50 seats in the 129-seat Scottish Parliament, seven
more than Britain's governing Labour Party.


Labour is currently governing Scotland in a coalition with the
Liberal Democrats, who are heading for 18 seats in the May
elections.


According to the poll, the Conservatives are likely to pick up 17
seats, while the Green Party would take the last remaining seat.


That would torpedo chances for another Labour-Liberal Democrat
coalition, as the two parties would only have 61 seats in the
Scottish parliament, and would leave the SNP as either a minority
government or in need of a coalition partner.


There was some relief for the government, however, as just 27
percent of those surveyed said they backed full independence for
Scotland.


The SNP is committed to holding a referendum on independence if
elected.


Under British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Scotland was in 1999
granted powers to re-establish its own parliament and pass laws
in health, education, housing and the environment, but not in
defence, foreign and economic policy.


Scottish parliamentarians are elected in two ways -- 73 are
chosen in local constituency elections where the candidate with
the most votes wins, and the remaining 56 are chosen via a
proportional representation system on a wider regional basis,
meaning every Scottish voter casts two votes.


In the constituency polls, the SNP are backed by 38 percent of
voters, while Labour is supported by 28 percent. The Liberal
Democrats are on 15 percent, while the Conservatives are at 14
percent.


In the regional vote, the SNP again leads, this time with 35
percent support, while Labour is on 30 percent. The Liberal
Democrats and the Conservatives are both on 14 percent.


Populus questioned 1,000 adults in Scotland by telephone between
March 21 and 25 for the poll.

