

Indonesia agreed on Tuesday to lift its ban on sharing bird flu
samples with the World Health Organisation (WHO) after reaching
an agreement in a long-running row over poor countries' access to
vaccines.


Health Minister Siti Fadilah Supari said Indonesia would start
sending samples "immediately" to WHO laboratories after a deal
was reached at international talks here.


"We are going to send the virus samples immediately," she said.


The agreement came after two days of WHO talks involving several
countries and organisations at which the world body agreed to
develop a new mechanism on sample-sharing, the minister said.


"This is now more fair and transparent. The WHO will improve the
mechanism," she said.


Indonesia announced in February that it had stopped sending
samples to the WHO over concerns they would be used to develop
costly vaccines beyond poorer countries' budgets.


It asked for a legal guarantee that samples sent to international
WHO reference laboratories for tests -- a process said to be key
in fighting human flu -- will not be exploited for profit by
drugs firms.


The minister said under the new mechanism, drugs firms would have
to negotiate with the country producing the sample.


A senior WHO official said the body would now bar pharmaceutical
firms from accessing the samples. All financial arrangements
would be negotiated between individual firms and countries, he
said.


"The WHO will only send the virus to collaborating centres for
study and keep the virus from industry," said David Heymann,
assistant director general of communicable diseases.


"The WHO will not get involved in financial arrangements. That
will be agreed between the country and the company."


The deal will be finalised in June, but the Indonesian health
minister said she trusted the WHO not to share samples with
industry until then.


The analysis of human bird flu samples by WHO reference
laboratories around the world is said to be key in detecting the
emergence of a possible pandemic strain of human flu.


Indonesia last month entered a cooperation agreement with US
company Baxter International to jointly develop a human bird flu
vaccine, partly to try to ensure it benefits from any commercial
treatment for the deadly virus.


Indonesia is the country worst hit by bird flu with 66 deaths
confirmed from the disease.


Another two people -- a 22-year-old student and a teenage boy --
died after testing positive for bird flu, and further tests are
being carried out to confirm the cause of death, officials said
Tuesday.


Most human cases have occurred after contact with sick birds.
Indonesia has banned the popular practice of keeping chickens in
backyards in the capital, Jakarta, in a bid to curb more human
cases.


The WHO says the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu has infected 281
people and killed 169 of them, mostly in Southeast Asia.


Scientists worry the H5N1 strain could mutate into a form easily
spread among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the
potential to kill millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

