

Almost 10,000 South Koreans are desperately waiting for organ
transplants due to a shortage of donations here and overseas,
health officials said Tuesday.


A leading local newspaper said the shortage follows a ban by
China on the export of organs in an attempt to improve its public
image before the Beijing Olympics next year.


In late January Canadian human rights activists released a report
saying the Chinese military was heavily involved in a trade in
organs taken from executed prisoners.


A South Korean health official, speaking to AFP on condition of
anonymity, could not confirm Beijing's ban. But the official said
many Korean patients have bought organs exported by brokers or
have visited China for transplants.


Chosun Ilbo newspaper said the situation for Koreans is becoming
desperate as a result of the Chinese ban this year, quoting
brokers as saying it had aggravated the shortage of organs for
foreigners and sent prices soaring.


A Korean who wants a kidney transplant in China now must pay 35
million won (37,040 dollars) compared to 23-25 million won last
summer, it said.


"The supply of organs from China was always short due to a queue
of patients from South Korea and other countries such as Japan,
Singapore, Taiwan and the Middle East," broker Kim Byong-Jun was
quoted as saying.


The newspaper said about 500 Koreans underwent transplants in
China last year.


At the end of last month 9,853 Koreans were waiting for organ
transplants, according to the Korean Network for Organ Sharing,
an affiliate of the Ministry of Health and Welfare.


Last year 1,770 patients received organ donations from relatives,
friends or the brain-dead, said network director Ahn So-Young.
But out of the total, only 141 were brain-dead.


"The queue is inevitable because of a serious shortage of organ
donations. In South Korea the families of brain-dead people are
reluctant to donate organs," she said.


"We will step up our campaign to expedite organ donations from
the brain-dead."

