

Thailand's health minister has threatened to expand the country's
generic drug programme to include cancer and more AIDS
medications, unless pharmaceutical companies sharply cut their
prices.


In an interview with AFP, Health Minister Mongkol Na Songkhla
said he was undeterred by the fierce resistance from drugmakers
to his trailblazing drive to issue so-called "compulsory
licences" for high-priced medications.


"I will continue to negotiate with drug companies" to reduce
prices of AIDS, cancer and heart disease medications, Mongkol
told AFP.


"But if negotiations fail, we are ready to act," the 65-year-old
general practitioner said.


Under the rules of the World Trade Organisation, countries are
allowed to order compulsory licenses that temporarily suspend
patents and clear the way for generic drugs to protect public
health in an emergency.


Few countries have actually used this provision.


But since Mongkol was appointed as health minister by the
military after a September coup, he has jolted the powerful
pharmaceutical industry by allowing generic versions of two anti-
AIDS drugs -- Efavirenz and Kaletra -- and popular heart disease
medicine Plavix.


The decision drew outrage from the industry with Thailand's top
pharmaceutical group calling it "a stunning blow" to foreign
investment already hit by political uncertainty since the coup.


"This is unprecedented in Thailand. If the government decides to
allow more generic drugs, it will further damage the image of
Thailand among international investors," said Teera Chakajnardom,
president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturer's
Association of Thailand.


Angered by Mongkol's decision, US drug giant Abbott Laboratories,
the maker of AIDS drug Kaletra, said this week it would stop
selling new drugs to Thailand -- including an improved version of
Kaletra.


But Mongkol was unfazed by critics and corporate retaliations,
saying that after years as a ministry bureaucrat involved in
price negotiations with European and US drug giants, he was well
aware of his opponents.


"Our ministry has been negotiating with drug companies over the
past two years" to cut drug prices, he said. "But they did not
cooperate with the ministry. Never. They were never interested in
negotiations.


"We've come to the point that we have to do something about it.
We cannot wait and talk to them without any achievement."


Drugmakers say they have to charge high prices for new medicines
to recover the enormous cost of research needed to bring new
medications to market.


The minister said HIV/AIDS is Thailand's top cause of death,
followed by heart disease.


Some 500,000 Thais are infected with HIV, but fewer than 10
percent of them can afford to buy Kaletra, he said.


Under the generic programme, treatment with Kaletra is expected
to drop from 11,580 baht (330 dollars) per month to 4,000 baht
per month, according to charity Doctors Without Borders (MSF).


Similarly, fewer than 10 percent of some 300,000 heart disease
patients in Thailand can buy Plavix, a blood-thinning treatment
to prevent heart attacks, according to the ministry.


The cost of Plavix, the world's second top-selling medicine, is
expected to drop from 73 baht (two dollars) per day to fewer than
seven baht under the generic program, the ministry said.


Paul Cawthorne, head of the MSF mission in Thailand, hailed
Thailand's move and said Mongkol had complied with WTO rules.


"What the government has done so far is perfectly legal within
Thai law and is also legal within the guidelines of the World
Trade Organisation," said Cawthorne.


Mongkol said the government had to resort to the generic program
in the face of a ballooning health care budget now at more than
250 billion baht (seven billion dollars) and projected to rise 10
percent every year.


"We want to help the poor. We have to use the compulsory licence
for the poor people," he said, adding the government would import
generic forms of the AIDS and heart drugs from India, a major
source of copycat medications.


Former premier Thaksin Shinawatra, ousted by the military in the
September putsch, set up an enormously popular health scheme
allowing Thais to pay only 30 baht (about 80 US cents) for each
visit to the doctor.


After the coup, the army-backed government went further by
scrapping the 30-baht payment, creating a free-for-everyone
health care system.


All of Thailand's 65 million people are eligible for the
universal health plan unless they have coverage from their
employer or qualify for other government insurance schemes.


The universal health scheme covers some 48.5 million, or 75
percent of the population, the ministry said.


Mongkol said drug giants should do more to cut prices of
essential medicines to treat AIDS, cancer and heart diseases.


"If they voluntarily reduce prices to let the poor people access
to essential drugs, there is no need to do compulsory licensing,"
he said. "We are doing everything to help the poor people."

