

Twice a week, Taddesse Hidego anxiously waits for salt traders to
arrive in his town in northeast Ethiopia to bring supplies to his
shop, but this localised arrangement faces a threat.


Here in the heart of the Afar region, the privatization of salt
mines that lie in the remote desert threatens the livelihood of
impoverished nomads.


For now, columns of traders continue to cross the inhospitable
desert twice a week from a salt market in Berhale. The salt
itself is mined from fields further north, near the border with
Eritrea, over which Ethiopia fought a bloody war in 1998-2000.


The Afar region -- straddling Eritrea, Ethiopia and Djibouti --
has a turbulent history including inter-tribal conflicts,
secessionist movements, banditry and kidnappings.


Five European tourists were this month captured there and
released nearly two weeks later in Eritrea. Eight of their
Ethiopian guides and drivers are still missing in the remote
desert region.


The management of the region's main commodity -- salt -- is
behind many of the region's disputes.


More than half of the region's salt mines were privatized two
years ago, sparking local discontent, and now the government is
planning to privatise more.


"Our lives will be very difficult," said Taddesse, almost 70,
standing among piles of salt bricks in the shop he has run for
decades.


"The prices will rise and, as a result, neither we nor our
customers will be able to conduct the trade," he said.


Most people in the Afar region rely on salt for their incomes.


Ethiopia produces an average of 100,000-165,000 tonnes of salt
each year and many of the country's salt deposits lie in the
scorching hot Danakil Depression, in the Afar region, according
to the Ethiopian Ministry of Mines.


The lack of roads in the desert inhibits the movement of nomadic
traders during the rainy season, since their routes pass through
river beds.


"During the winter season, prices rise from 7.5 birr (0.85 US
dollars) for one brick of salt to 15 birr (1.70 US dollars)
because of scarcity, but even then our customers are not willing
to spend that much," Taddesse said.


But privatisation plans are an even greater concern for local
traders like Taddesse.


Two years ago, one of the biggest mines, in Afdera in western
Afar, was partially privatised.


Ethiopian corporations took over part of the mine which
represents 65 percent of the country's total salt consumption.


The privatisation was blamed for ensuing clashes between
disgruntled locals and police.


Government officials played down the incidents and insisted that
further privatisations would benefit locals.


"There were few incidents, very minor. I do not see anything that
relates it with privatization. They are not even worth
mentioning," said an official from the Ethiopian Ministry of
Mines, declining to be named.


"The government believes that privatisation would only help the
cause of the locals. There is a huge potential for salt and it
can only be realized through this, not to mention the economic
benefits it would bring to the locals."


But the top regional leader, the Sultan of the Ethiopian Afar,
Ali Mirah, blamed the privatisation for the violence.


"Some youths were not happy and they started to create troubles.
But with the elders, and through dialogue, we managed to cool the
situation down", he said.


Further privatisations risk provoking more violence with locals
skeptical that they will reap the benefits, local leaders say.


"For those people, who have been exploiting salt traditionally
for thousands of years, the attribution of the mines to some
industrial groups represents unfair competition", said Francois
Piguet, an Afar regional expert working for the University
Institute for Development Studies in Geneva.


Around 1.4 million Afars live in Ethiopia with smaller, but still
very significant, Afar communities living as minorities in
Eritrea and Djibouti.


Tourists visit the Afar region mainly to see the Danakil
Depression, one of the lowest and hottest places on Earth known
for its active volcanoes as well as its salt mines.

