

North Korea accused Japan on Tuesday of trying to sabotage six-
nation nuclear talks, although the United States held firm in
support of its ally as envoys sought to flesh out a disarmament
plan.


After a major hurdle appeared to be cleared in the tortuous
diplomatic process with the end of a sanctions dispute between
North Korea and the United States, the Stalinist regime signalled
its row with Japan could pose problems.


North Korea's official KCNA news agency, one of the main windows
into the secretive nation, accused "the present ruling quarters
and the right-wing forces of Japan" of not wanting the Korean
peninsula to be nuclear-free.


Tokyo has been less enthusiastic about recent progress in the
talks aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear weapons programme
amid an unresolved row over the communist state's past abductions
of Japanese nationals.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies.


It returned five victims and their families and says the rest are
dead. But Japan maintains that the other abductees are alive and
that more Japanese were snatched than Pyongyang has admitted.


Japan has maintained that, until the abduction issue is resolved,
it will not help fund a February 13 six-nation accord in which
North Korea would receive as much as one million tonnes of fuel
aid for disarming.


"We will stay with the same policy that we won't fund the energy
assistance without seeing progress (on the abduction issue),"
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told parliament on Monday.


The chief US envoy to the six-nation talks, Christopher Hill,
said Tuesday that Washington would continue to back Japan in its
bid to resolve the kidnapping issue, and that the dispute should
not derail disarmament talks.


"We don't see North Korea driving a wedge between us and Japan.
It is just not possible for them to do that," Hill said.


The latest round of the six-nation talks -- involving host China,
the two Koreas, the United States, Japan and Russia -- began on
Monday on an optimistic note following the end of the financial
sanctions dispute.


The United States announced that the roughly 25 million dollars
in North Korean funds frozen in a Macau bank due to accusations
of money laundering and counterfeiting would be released,
although no timeframe was given.


Pyongyang had insisted it would not implement the February deal
until the sanctions dispute was resolved.


Chief North Korean envoy Kim Kye-Gwan reportedly told his fellow
envoys at the talks on Monday that his government would proceed
with the first phase of disarmament once the 25 million dollars
were safely returned.


Under the February accord, North Korea was given 60 days to close
its main reactor at Yongbyon and allow UN International Atomic
Energy Agency inspectors back into the country to supervise.


In return, the impoverished state would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel, rising up to one million tonnes if it
permanently disbanded its atomic weapons programme.


Hill and other envoys insisted that, while the first phase of the
deal should now be implemented on schedule, they also expected
North Korea to begin cooperating on the drafting of a broader
roadmap for full disarmament.


"We would like to begin the sequence of events for the next
phase, which involves the complete declaration" by North Korea of
its nuclear weapons programme, Hill said late Monday.


Chief South Korean envoy Chun Yung-Woo called Tuesday for North
Korea to permanently and completely scrap its nuclear programme
within months.


"As to how early to disable (North Korea's nuclear facilities),
we are talking about months, not years," Chun said, adding only
complete disarmament would be acceptable.

