

Baghdad's brutal war between Shiite and Sunni armed groups has
prompted an exodus by Iraq's non-Muslim religious minorities to
the relative safety of the northern Kurdish provinces, or abroad.


Communities that have been part of Iraq's social fabric for
centuries have been targeted both as infidels -- in the eyes of
the Islamists who have come to dominate the Sunni insurgency --
and as easy prey for extortion.


The Mandaean community, which traces its origins in Iraq back to
the 6th century BC, has found itself particularly vulnerable.


Largely displaced from its traditional homeland in the southern
marshlands by the Shiite uprising that followed the 1991 Gulf war
and the scorched earth response of Saddam Hussein's Sunni-
dominated regime, the community found a new base in Baghdad to
practise its traditional trade as goldsmiths.


But the community's renown as workers of precious metal has
proved its Achilles's heel amid the breakdown of law and order
that followed the US-led invasion of 2003, with an array of armed
groups seeing it as an easy target.


From a pre-war population in Iraq of some 70,000, community
leaders now estimate there are less than 22,000 left in the
country.


Many of those who remain have fled the war-torn capital for the
relative safety of the Kurdish cities of the north.


Forty-four families have resettled in Arbil, the seat of Kurdish
regional government, and another 12 families have relocated to
Sulaimaniyah.


"The security and the stability in Arbil saved me from the
tragedy of living in Baghdad, since there I could not go out
fearing that I will be kidnapped for working in the gold
business," said Sam Saad, 20.


Halim Kamal told a similar story.


"I gave up my job at a Baghdad hospital and I came to Kurdistan
to work as a goldsmith since here I enjoy security and peace,"
said the 27-year-old, who used to work as a medical assistant in
the capital.


A former head of the Mandaeans' community affairs council, Saadi
Thujail, has also joined the exodus.


"We did not receive any direct threats since we are a peaceful
people but the repercussions of terrorism have hit us," Thujail
told AFP.


"Since we are a small and peaceful community and there is no one
to provide us support, we were also a target for the gangs," he
said.


"The majority of our young have migrated to Europe, Syria or
Jordan."


Thujail said the Kurdish regional government had been very
receptive to pleas for help from the community's leaders and
hospitable to displaced Mandaeans.


"There were some meetings between our leader Abdul Sattar Helo
and the president of Iraqi Kurdistan, Massud Barzani, in Baghdad
recently in which they promised us some facilities to relocate in
Arbil and Sulaimaniyah," he said.


Thujail, who brought with him to Arbil some of the staff of his
Baghdad goldsmith's business, said there was no problem for
Mandaeans in practising their ancestral craft in the Kurdish
north.


"You see a Mandaean cannot give up his profession," he said. "I
believe that Kurdistan is the best place to practise it with our
families and offspring.


"Kurdistan consumes and imports gold, but if the government here
encourages the Mandaeans who have a long history in this field,
to bring in our workshops, new machinery and experience, this
region will become a goldsmith hub and not a place of
consumption."


Thujail acknowledged that relocation to Kurdistan posed some
difficulties for Mandaeans in practising their ancient religion,
which recognises some but not all of the key figures of the
Judaeo-Christian tradition.


The faithful revere Adam, Noah and John the Baptist but not
Abraham, Moses or Jesus.


As part of their reverence for John the Baptist, ritual cleansing
in water forms a key part of their religion, and in Baghdad the
community's main festivals were all held on the banks of the
Tigris River, something that is not an option in riverless Arbil.


"As you know, necessity allows forbidden things to be done, and
since Arbil is not near running water or rivers, then based on
subjective decisions it is fine to resettle here," Thujail said.


The displaced community in Arbil also lacks a priest able to read
the Mandeans' holy book, the Ginza Raba (The Great Treasure), in
the original Mandaean language -- a dialect of Aramaic, the
tongue of Jesus Christ.


Thujail said he had to rely on an Arabic-language translation of
the holy text -- in Iraq, lay Mandaeans have lost their
traditional language, unlike in neighbouring Iran, where a few
hundred of the estimated 5,000 Mandaeans still speak the
language.


"We want to maintain our religious rituals," he said, adding that
the displaced community was awaiting the arrival of a priest and
for the time being carrying out the rituals of the faith at home.

