

China has banned firms flush with new share sale proceeds from
investing the money in securities in the latest regulatory move
aimed at cooling stock market fever, the government said Tuesday.


"Companies should not directly or indirectly use newly acquired
funds to buy stocks or derivatives or convertible company bonds,"
the China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a statement on
its website.


Firms must use the proceeds from share sales for the intended
purposes, according to the statement.


If the enterprises intend to spend more than 10 percent of the
raised capital on items that the share sale was not originally
aimed at funding, they must get board approval and arrange an
online shareholder vote, it said.


Yan Li, analyst with Southeastern Securities based in Beijing,
said the new rules were meant to slow the flow of fresh funds
flooding the bourses as well as warn on the misuse of cash raised
through public stock offerings.


"At the official level they are a little worried about too much
money going into the market," said Yan.


"These kind of rules are guidance aimed at telling the market
that they cannot do this."


The action follows an announcement by China's cabinet last month
that a top- level task force had been set up to fight stock
market fraud and regulate the trading in the nation's booming but
volatile exchanges.


The new oversight body, which is set to begin enforcing rules by
May 1, will seek to induce order in the market by preventing
firms from misleading their clients and making them more aware of
the dangers involved in investment.


The tougher regulatory approach follows on from an announcement
in February that the government would also tighten rules against
insider trading by executives of state-owned listed firms.


Hundreds of millions of dollars in fresh funds have flooded into
the nation's stock markets since January 2006, much of it from
cash-rich state enterprises looking for somewhere to put their
money.


The resulting speculative binge has driven equity prices up by
around 150 percent over the last 15 months, with the gains in
turn enticing more people, many them of relatively limited means,
to chance their luck in stocks.


That exuberance has prompted officials to repeatedly warn that a
major bubble had formed and that investors, especially
inexperienced retail punters, stood to lose everything if the
markets crashed.


On February 27, investors got a strong taste of the kind of
volatility that worries regulators when China's key Shanghai
index slumped nearly nine percent in its steepest one-day fall in
10 years. Prices have since largely recovered.


In another step aimed at dampening the frenzy, banking regulators
moved to investigate a sudden spike in consumer loans believed to
be fuelling the market speculation, according to previous state
press reports.


The China Banking Regulatory Commission ordered in January that
commercial banks recall property loans suspected of being used
instead to speculate in the nation's red-hot markets.


Chinese authorities are concerned that if speculators borrow from
banks to fund investments and then lose their money, the banks
too could face an avalanche of non-performing loans only shortly
after their balance sheets were put to rights by a massive
government bailout.

