

It should be payback time for the Japanese salaryman, the
overworked cog in the nation's well-oiled capitalist machine.


With many companies enjoying bumper profits as the economy
awakens from a decade-long slumber, Japan's army of loyal workers
might have been forgiven for expecting a bigger pay rise after
years of corporate thrift.


Instead -- despite calls from the government for companies to
share more of their earnings with employees -- this year's annual
spring wage talks again resulted in paltry pay increases at many
employers.


That has dampened hopes of a pick-up in sluggish wage growth and
in turn consumer spending -- which are both seen as lagging the
wider recovery after a decade of economic stagnation, on-off
recessions and widespread lay-offs.


And with a wave of high-paid baby boomers getting ready to
retire, making way for lower paid younger workers, overall wage
growth is unlikely to pick up speed any time soon, analysts said.


"The workforce doesn't yet seem to have adjusted its expectations
away from purely being grateful for still having a job -- which
was the focus in most of the past 15 years -- to recognising
their own scarcity value," said Macqurie Securities economist
Richard Jerram.


"They don't seem to be fully exploiting their obviously improved
bargaining position. There's clearly a shortage of skilled
workers. It's surprising it's not generating stronger wage
growth," he added.


Many companies did not fully meet the union's demands this year,
arguing for the need to keep down costs in the face of intense
global competition.


Fast-growing automaker Toyota, which expects to report another
year of record profits, agreed to a 1,000 yen (8.53 dollars)
basic monthly pay increase, the same as last year but below the
1,500 yen hike demanded by the union.


"Considering the automotive competition globally ... in order for
us to compete in the long term the management thought we were not
able to meet their request 100 percent," said Toyota spokesman
Tomomi Imai.


Nissan Motor, which expects a drop in profits, did not meet union
demands for the first time in several years.


"We have been taking a tough stance during the negotiations,"
said Nissan Motor Co. senior vice president Hitoshi Kawaguchi.


"Unlike last year, the global competition is getting fierce,
looking at China, or South Korea, or more recently India," he
told reporters.


Consumer electronics makers, locked in a price war with rivals
from South Korea and elsewhere, were also restrained on pay,
belying a tightening labour market in Japan where unemployment is
at an eight-year low of 4.0 percent.


Although there were 106 job offers to every 100 job seeker in
January, wages dropped 1.4 percent in the month, the largest
decline for almost three years.


With Japan's baby boomers, born in the ashes of World War II, set
to retire over five years from 2007, wage growth looks set to
remain sluggish for now.


"It is widely assumed that this will put heavy downward pressure
on overall wages, as younger people are believed to earn much
less than the older baby- boomers," said Barclays Capital
economists Takuji Aida and Yuichiro Nagai.


They calculate that Japan's average monthly income could shrink
by 1.7 percent over the next five years as baby-boomers retire.


This retirement of the baby boomers is a major worry for Japan,
which fears that a smaller working population will eventually be
forced to support a mass of pensioners.


In 2005, the Japanese population fell for the first time since
comparable records became available after the end of World War
II, dropping by 20,000 people to 127.76 million.

