

Thailand's defence ministry on Tuesday paid 1.2 million dollars
compensation to relatives of 79 people who were killed when
security forces broke up a protest in the Muslim-majority south.


Some 85 Muslims were killed in the southern border town of Tak
Bai on October 25, 2004, with 78 dying of suffocation when they
were piled into army trucks. The others died from gunshot wounds.


No one from the security forces has been charged over the deaths,
one of the bloodiest incidents in the southern separatist
insurgency that has killed more than 2,000 people in Yala,
Narathiwat and Pattani provinces in three years.


"The money handed out today to relatives of the Tak Bai victims
followed the agreement between 79 plaintiffs and the defence
ministry on December 20 last year," said Poj Piampanya, director
of Pattani provincial court.


The total compensation pot was 42.2 million baht (1.2 million
dollars), he said, after negotiations with the relatives, who had
originally requested 120 million baht.


He said the amount of compensation given for each plaintiff would
depend on their family responsibilities and how many dependants
they had.


"Compensation varies from 36,000 baht to 1.6 million baht," Poj
said.


The case for compensation started in October 2005, one year after
the Tak Bai tragedy, which begun when security forces armed with
automatic weapons broke up a protest of about 3,000 people
outside Tak Bai police station.


More than 1,000 people were arrested over the clashes, with
dozens dying of suffocation while being transported on trucks to
an army detention camp.


The offer of compensation follows an apology by Prime Minister
Surayud Chulanont for the deaths, and the decision to drop all
charges against 92 Muslims arrested in connection with the
protest.


Surayud, who was installed after a coup last September, has
introduced a raft of peace-building measures in the insurgency-
torn south, but the violence has escalated despite his offer to
hold talks with rebels.

