

About 200 Jewish settlers were occupying a house near the
flashpoint West Bank city of Hebron on Tuesday that they claim to
have bought off a Palestinian.


A large Israeli force of police and soldiers was surrounding the
three-storey building on a road linking Hebron to the Jewish
settlement of Kiryat Arba after the settlers moved in late
Monday.


A settler representative said the house had been bought for
700,000 dollars but a Palestinian man said he was still the legal
owner.


An Israeli police spokesman said they were checking the validity
of the settlers' documents laying claim to the home.


"If this house was bought legally, the occupants can stay but if
they do not have the necessary papers they will be expelled," he
added.


Around 600 hardline Israeli settlers live in a tightly-guarded
enclave in Hebron, a city in the southern West Bank that is also
home to around 170,000 Palestinians.


"The house was bought for 700,000 dollars in a legal manner via
an agent for a real estate firm based in Jordan," settler
representative Noam Arnon said.


"We hope that a dozen will soon be able to move in," Arnon said,
adding that the building was empty when the settlers turned up.


However, Palestinian Faez Rajabi told AFP he had documents
proving he was the legal owner of the building. "I bought this
house 15 years ago and I haven't sold it to anyone. Anyone who
says the contrary is lying."


Anti-settlement movement Peace Now protested at the settlers'
action and demanded that Defence Minister Amir Peretz order their
evacuation before their "provocation unleashes an explosion of
violence in Hebron."


In May last year, Israeli police and troops stormed a Palestinian
house in Hebron where dozens of hardline Jewish settlers had
barricaded themselves inside for weeks.


Hebron, the most volatile city in the West Bank, is regarded as a
bastion of hardline settlers.


Under a 1997 accord with the Palestinian Authority, Israeli
troops evacuated 80 percent of the city but continue to protect
the settlers living around the Tomb of the Patriarchs, a site
holy to both Jews and Muslims.


Earlier this year, a video by a teenage Palestinian girl
triggered a scandal in Israel over the mistreatment and abuse of
Palestinians in Hebron.

