

Larisa Ilchenko was repeatedly attacked by jellyfish as she
battled through one of the toughest races of her life to win the
10km open water world title here Tuesday by barely one second.


The exhausted Russian was stung all over her body, including her
face, as she gave every last ounce of energy to hold off
Britain's Cassandra Patten to add the 10km crown to the 5km World
Swimming Championship gold she won Sunday.


It was a gruelling race in a choppy Port Philip Bay with light
rain hampering the swimmers and one that Ilchenko would be happy
never to repeat.


"This sort of fight, I've honestly never seen. I couldn't have
imagined a fight like this. Really, I just want to go home," she
said after touching in 2hrs 3mins 57.9secs.


"It was a really, really difficult race.


"It was not just more difficult because of the longer distance.
It was crazy in there. I've really never seen anything like it.


"I got so many bites from jellyfish. In the face even. I don't
understand where that strength in the last moments came from. It
wasn't from me.


"In the last 10m I thought I was about to go belly-up, just roll
over and end it."


Patten experienced similar emotions, and was just happy to be in
the medals.


"We were neck and neck and I guess she just had a little bit more
experience," said the Briton, who snatched silver from
Australia's Kate Brookes-Peterson by half a second.


"Where didn't I get stung to be honest? My face, my legs, in my
costume. The only place I didn't get stung was probably the
bottom of my feet.


"But I didn't want to come all the way to Australia to get stung
and to come fourth."


The Chinese juggernaut, meanwhile, continued its drive to
dominate the diving competition with Luo Yutong (466.50 points)
and He Chong (423.30) in a different class in the 1m springboard
preliminaries.


Third-placed Siarhei Kuchmasau scored just 387.75.


Springboard master He looks the favourite after dropping his
synchronised events to concentrate on solo diving here but he was
far from happy.


"My performance was not good, it was below average and I'm not
happy with the result," he said.


"My body was not in a good condition this morning. I usually
don't perform well in the morning, especially in the cold
weather. I don't feel energetic enough.


"If I perform well, I can get up to 460 or even 480 points in
this competition. So that's why I'm not happy with the result."


Despite their dominance, Luo was equally unhappy.


"I recognise I can do better in some dives," he said. "I'm happy
for the third dive, but the second and fifth dives were not good
enough."


The semi-final and final is on Wednesday.


Later Tuesday, 14-year-old sensation Chen Ruolin, with one gold
for the 10m synchronised event already safely stashed in her
luggage, begins her campaign for the women's 10m platform crown.


She is the favourite although reigning 10m platform world
champion Laura Wilkinson of the United States is in fine shape
after recovering from surgery on an injured right wrist last
year.


Reigning world synchronised swimming team champions, Russia,
soared high with acrobatic throws to surpass all other teams in
the team free preliminaries Tuesday.


Russia's eight-woman team lead the pack into the final on
Saturday.


In the men's water polo preliminaries, the United States edged
the Netherlands 9-7 while Italy crushed Japan 20-6. Spain beat
China and Cuba drew with New Zealand.

