

President Pervez Musharraf says he will not declare an emergency
in a deepening row over his removal of Pakistan's top judge, but
analysts said Tuesday the suggestion shows how high the stakes
have risen.


Musharraf has faced protests and the resignations of several
judges since he suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad
Chaudhry on March 9 and ordered him to face charges of misconduct
and abuse of power before a judicial panel.


The president -- who has remained chief of Pakistan's powerful
army since seizing power in a bloodless coup seven years ago --
denied in an interview shown late Monday that he would call out
troops to quell the unrest.


"There is no emergency situation and emergency will not be
declared," General Musharraf told private Geo television.


"There is no such situation and I will never use the army at all.
This is not their job. They are doing their training and they
will continue (this)," Musharraf added.


His comments come at the end of 11 unsettled days in Pakistan
during which black-suited lawyers have gone on strike, clashed
with police and mobbed Chaudhry like a hero whenever he has been
allowed out of his house.


During Chaudhry's second appearance before the Supreme Judicial
Council in Islamabad on Friday, police fired rubber bullets and
tear gas at rioters believed to be from opposition and Islamic
groups.


The police also ransacked the offices of Geo television,
prompting outrage and an apology from Musharraf. His interview
was apparently given to mend relations with the popular channel.


With lawyers and hardline Islamists vowing fresh demonstrations
on Wednesday when Chaudhry next appears before the panel,
analysts say Musharraf's latest comments show the crisis is far
from over.


"Musharraf is in a difficult position but has no other choice but
to deny speculations about the possibility of imposing an
emergency," a former Supreme Court judge, Fakhruddin G. Ebrahim,
told AFP.


"It's not a comfortable situation for Musharraf but it could be
one of the options before him," he said.


Ebrahim said the situation could take a crucial turn after the
return from holiday in India later this week of Judge Rana
Bhagwandas, a Hindu who is set to take over as acting chief
justice from interim holder Javed Iqbal.


"It's a big question whether he will lead the judicial council
and take the oath as the acting chief justice," he added.


If Bhagwandas -- who has made no public comment -- does refuse to
take the oath, it will plunge the country into an unprecedented
constitutional mess ahead of general elections due late this year
or in early 2008.


Musharraf on Monday said the elections would be held on time but
opposition groups have suggested that the president removed
Chaudhry to ensure there would be no legal challenges if he wants
to reschedule the polls.


There have also been claims that Chaudhry was targeted for taking
Pakistan's intelligence agencies to task over dozens of missing
people. Musharraf on Monday said many of the disappeared people
had gone to become suicide bombers.


Given Pakistan's chequered democratic history, even the mention
of an emergency or a delay in elections is likely to cause alarm
and may eventually backfire on Musharraf, experts said.


"The situation is extremely serious. An emergency will not bring
any advantage to him -- if the army is involved, it will not
deliver, you need public support," said former general-turned-
analyst Talat Masood.


"The present crisis is only a symptom of deeper resentment,
people are alineated. The state is moving towards failure.
Musharraf in seven years has weakened all the institutions," he
added.

