

China's Postal Savings Bank, its fifth-largest lender with 37,000
branches, began business Tuesday amid hopes it will help boost
rural areas which have fallen behind the booming cities.


The China Postal Savings Bank, created from the nation's 206
-billion-dollar postal savings system, will be headquartered in
Beijing, the official Xinhua news agency reported.


It has been charged primarily with serving rural communities,
home to about 800 million people whose fortunes have generally
lagged behind those in China's faster developing urban and
eastern coast areas.


Analysts believe the bank will need up to five years to become a
full-fledged commercial lender but, given its size, many expect
it will in time be a major player in the Chinese financial
system.


The Shanghai Securities News indicated that the top management
would mostly be recruited from the existing postal bureaucracy.


Liu Andong, the group's general manager, will be chairman, and
Tao Mingli, former director the postal savings division of the
original State Post Bureau, will be the president of the bank, it
said.


Analysts are concerned that such a management with little or no
real commercial banking experience driven by considerations of
profit and loss may pose quite a number of problems for the new
bank.


"Obviously they are the representatives of the bank's
shareholder," He Jun, a Beijing-based senior analyst with
research firm Anbound Group, told AFP.


"They may still have to recruit professional bankers to carry out
the day-to-day management," he said.


But finding the talent could be a major challenge as all major
banks are scouring the labour markets for experienced managers,
he said.


The Shanghai Securities News cited an unnamed source as saying
the Postal Savings Bank would start to set up branches and sub-
branches before the middle of the year.


"Trial projects will be initially carried out ... and will be
promoted across the country when conditions are mature," the
source said.


The establishment of the bank is part of a broader effort to
boost rural finance as a means of improving the lives of Chinese
farmers.


One of the aims of the reforms is to make better use of post
office savings and use them to greater effect in rural areas,
central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan said at a press conference
last week.


The bank's focus on the countryside has triggered suspicion in
the industry that it might end up competing with the Agricultural
Bank of China, the nation's number four lender, but officials and
analysts downplay this.


They argue that while the Agricultural Bank of China is targeting
better profitability in preparation of an overseas listing, the
Postal Savings Bank would maintain a national and not necessarily
lucrative network of branches.


The fact that the Postal Savings Bank, although is expected to
compete as a commercial bank, has an official mission to support
rural finance, leaves its profitability "in uncertainty",
according to analysts.


"(The mission) is actually a political requirement," Anbound's He
said. "To make a profit, the bank has to expand its business
range in the future and try to acquire more of the functions that
a commercial bank ought to have."


Post offices in China started postal savings services in 1986 but
they could only accept deposits from the public and not offer
loans.


Such a lack of business experience may explain why the new bank
has been restricted in its functions, analysts say.


It has so far only been granted a "limited operation license,"
meaning it can only extend small, collateralised loans.

