

More than 60 elderly Russians, almost half of them bed-ridden,
were killed in their sleep Tuesday when a blaze swept through
their retirement home and firefighters took an hour to arrive,
officials said.


"Sixty two people died in the fire," a spokeswoman for the
Emergency Situations Ministry told AFP. "Of them, 26 were
confined to their beds and were unable to get out. Thirty five
people were rescued and of them 30 are being given medical
treatment."


Most of the victims were elderly, but a nurse also perished, the
ministry said.


The nearest fire station to the home in the village of
Kamyshevatskaya was 50 kilometres (30 miles) away in Yeisk, a
town in the Black Sea region of Krasnodar.


Firefighters took an hour to arrive and by the time they were on
the scene flames had engulfed most of the two-storey building's
upper floor, the ministry said.


Adding to the high death toll were a series of fire code
violations, including insufficient extinguishers and other
firefighting equipment, as well a lack of electric torches and
emergency breathing equipment for staff, it said.


Although the violations were pointed out in an inspection in
December, apparently nothing had been done to rectify them, it
said.


The call to the fire station itself was only made some 20 minutes
after an alarm went off in the sleeping area of the residency,
the ministry said.


Footage on NTV showed broken glass and abandoned belongings
scattered under smashed windows in the brick building. One
section of the home was blackened.


The initial emergency call was made at about 1:00 am (2200 GMT
Monday), when the sick and elderly residents would have been fast
asleep.


Firefighters brought the blaze under control by about 3:00 am,
but the flames were extinguished only at 5:00 am.


The ministry's senior official for southern Russia, Sergei
Kuginov, said on NTV television that three possible causes were
being examined:


"One is unsafe use of fire, a second version is there was an
electrical short circuit, and third is arson," he said.


Other deadly fires in Russia include a blaze last December at a
Moscow drug rehabilitation clinic that killed 45 women in a
suspected arson attack.


The same weekend, nine people died in a fire in a clinic in
Siberia.


In October last year, the emergency ministry listed 77 buildings
nationwide where serious violations of fire safety regulations
have been found, including hospitals, theatres and hostels.

