

Britain's finance minister and likely next prime minister Gordon
Brown was labelled "Stalinist" by a former top civil servant
Tuesday, the day before he delivers his probable last budget.


Lord Andrew Turnbull said that Brown had showed a "Stalinist
ruthlessness" and had a "very cynical view of mankind and his
colleagues," in an unprecedented attack by such a senior figure.


Turnbull, who as Cabinet Secretary was Britain's top civil
servant between 2002 and 2005 after a stint as the top mandarin
in Brown's Treasury, added that the chancellor's style impeded
good government.


"He cannot allow them any serious discussion about priorities.
His view is that it is just not worth it and they will 'get what
I decide,'" Turnbull said in an interview with the Financial
Times.


"It has enhanced Treasury control but at the expense of any
government cohesion and any assessment of strategy.


"You can choose whether you are impressed or depressed by that,
but you cannot help admire the sheer Stalinist ruthlessness of it
all."


The damaging attack, which echoes previous criticisms of Brown as
a "control freak" and "psychologically flawed," came as the
finance minister prepares to try and woo voters with his likely
last budget on Wednesday.


Commentators predict that Brown will unveil a series of
environmentally-friendly measures in what will be seen as a
trailer for his intentions if and when he moves into 10 Downing
Street.


But despite the seeming inevitability of his accession, many
within Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party, plus a large
chunk of British voters, have misgivings about Brown.


Blair and Brown were close friends in the 1980s and early 1990s,
when they led efforts to modernise the party after years in the
electoral wilderness.


But they fell out after Blair failed to follow through on a
reported 1994 deal which would have seen him hand over to Brown
as prime minister after a few years in office.


Blair celebrates his 10th anniversary in Downing Street on May 1,
despite an attempted coup by Brown supporters last year which
forced him to pledge to step down by this September.


Despite repeated criticism of Brown's style and methods, he
retains a sizeable and influential rump of support in the party,
particularly on the left.


Constitutional affairs minister Harriet Harman, a candidate for
the party's deputy leadership when Blair steps down, was one of
those who spoke out to the media to defend Brown Tuesday morning.


"He is demanding of colleagues but he's also demanding of himself
because he's in politics to change things for the better," she
told BBC radio.


"All I can conclude is not all civil servants admire strong
political leadership."


Meanwhile, British voters seem uninspired by Brown, with a series
of opinion polls suggesting that David Cameron, the youthful
leader of the main opposition Conservatives, is far more popular.


An ICM poll published in The Guardian Tuesday said the main
opposition Conservatives, under the youthful David Cameron, would
have a 15-point lead over Labour led by Brown.


Turnbull also accused Brown of stepping out of the political
limelight when the government has to take difficult decisions,
comparing him to Macavity, the criminal feline from poet TS
Eliot's "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats".


"The chancellor has a Macavity quality. He is not there when
there is dirty work to be done," he said.


BBC radio reported that Turnbull thought that his comments to the
FT were off the record.

