

After 17 months of tough negotiations the United States and South
Korea have reached a deal on sharing the 11 billion dollar cost
of relocating US troops in the peninsula, officials said Tuesday.


The allies agreed roughly to split the cost of moving US troops
to a new base at Pyeongtaek, 70 kilometres (40 miles) south of
Seoul, the defence ministry said.


"An agreement on cost-sharing has been reached between South
Korea and the United States, helping our side work out a master
plan on relocation," a ministry official told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


"Both sides will almost equally share the cost, although they
have still to narrow differences on some issues."


The total cost is put at almost 11 trillion won (11.67 billion
dollars).


South Korea will pay 4.58 trillion to build facilities and will
also bear the estimated one trillion won cost of buying land.


The US has stationed tens of thousands of soldiers in the South
since the 1950-53 Korean War. Some 29,500 US troops are currently
posted here to help the 680,000-strong South Korean military face
up to North Korea's 1.1-million-strong forces.


Talks on the relocation of US troops began in December 2002 as
part of a global American troop realignment. Washington plans to
scale back its forces to 25,000 by 2008 as South Korea plays a
bigger part in its own defence.


Under the plan 35 bases across the nation -- including the huge
Yongsan base in central Seoul -- will be consolidated into two
hub bases, one at Pyeongtaek and the other at Daegu, 300
kilometres southeast of the capital.


Camp Humphreys at Pyeongtaek will be expanded and remodelled to
accommodate more than 44,000 US soldiers, their families and
South Korean employees.


The defence ministry did not say when the move, originally
scheduled for completion in 2008, would be finished. The two
sides have yet to solve some sensitive issues such as new
facilities for a computerised joint command system.


South Korea insists it will take a few years due to financial
constraints and protests by local residents who must leave their
homes or farmland.


Construction will start in September, the ministry said, adding
the two countries would by May select a consortium to work out a
detailed plan.


The alliance has undergone changes in recent years as Seoul moves
to reduce its dependence on its main protector. Washington still
has wartime control over South Korea's military but has agreed to
return this in 2012.


US military authorities hailed Tuesday's announcement as proving
the strength of the alliance.


"We are pleased that the Pyongtaek master plan has been
announced," a statement said.


"This agreement is the latest tangible extension of our
respective commitment to our close and enduring alliance."

