

Hong Kong is gearing up for its first ever pan-Asian film awards
ceremony Tuesday, but the event will be lacking the star power
organisers hoped would bring glitz and glamour.


Some of the international stars and nominees including Chinese
actresses Gong Li and Zhang Ziyi, as well as director Zhang Yimou
and Bollywood actor Shakrukh Khan, will be absent from the Asian
Film Awards.


Nonetheless Peter Tsi, director of the event's organiser, the
Hong Kong International Film Festival (HKIFF), said he hoped it
would be a success.


"We have had an overwhelming response from all the the world. I
hope it will be a successful event," HKIFF director Peter Tsi
said.


Among the stars who will attend are renowned French director Luc
Besson and South Korean director Park Chan-wook, whose film "Old
Boy" was a Grand Prix winner at the 2004 Cannes Film Festival.


Korean actor and singer Jung Ji-hoon, better known as Rain,
Japanese idol Hirosue Ryoko and actor Tony Leung Chiu-wai will
tread the red carpet, along with local director Andrew Lau, whose
"Infernal Affairs" was remade into the Oscar-winning gangster
flick "The Departed".


More than 30 films from across the region will be competing for
10 prizes in the Asian Film Awards.


South Korea's huge box office hit and monster flick, "The Host",
received five nominations, including best film, actor,
cinematographer, editor and visual effects.


Veteran Chinese director Zhang Yimou's "Curse of Golden Flower"
-- the most expensive Chinese film to date with a budget of 45
million US dollars -- won three nods including best film, visual
effects and best actress for Gong Li.


Hong Kong director Johnnie To's gang war epic, "Exiled", earned
nominations for best director and best film.


Chinese movie "Still Life", winner of a top prize at the Venice
Film Festival last year, garnered three nominations: best film,
composer and director for Jia Zhangke.


Japanese smash drama, "Love and Honor" and Indonesia's "Opera
Jawa" got the best film nods.


The award show and the film festival will be held in conjunction
with the third Entertainment Expo, which runs from Tuesday
through April 15 and combines eight events in film, digital
entertainment and music.

