

Thailand's junta chief insisted Tuesday that it would hold
elections to restore democracy by the end of the year, in a wide-
ranging televised defence of the military coup six months ago.


"We will have free and fair elections on schedule," General
Sonthi Boonyaratglin said in a more than two-hour news conference
at the army headquarters, carried live on all Thailand's
television stations.


The junta has long promised to hold a referendum on a new
constitution followed by general elections before the end of the
year.


Efforts to write a new charter have been held up by contentious
debate over issues ranging from whether the prime minister can be
appointed to whether Buddhism should be declared the official
religion.


Political parties complain that a military ban on their
activities prevents them from contributing to the constitution or
preparing for eventual elections.


The junta has also received criticism from supporters of the coup
that the new government has not moved aggressively enough to
prosecute ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra over alleged
corruption.


"I am fully aware that people are waiting for the prosecution of
wrongdoers, but we have to be fair to all parties," Sonthi said.


"It is a very difficult and slow process to solve problems
resulting from the pseudo-democracy and capitalist dictatorship"
of Thaksin's government, he told the gathering.


During the briefing, eight agencies -- including the constitution
drafters, the Election Commission and the attorney general's
office -- gave 15-minute briefings on their work since the coup.


"The constitution will be completed on time and will be approved
in a referendum. National elections will eventually be held by
the end of this year," said Decho Savananont, deputy chief of the
Constitutional Drafting Council.


The military received a warm welcome from residents of Bangkok
when they took power on September 19. Many hoped the putsch would
mark an end to a year of turmoil surrounding Thaksin and claims
of corruption by his government.


Instead, the military-installed government has faced a series of
crises, including several damaging economic blunders and a
worsening insurgency by Islamic militants in southern Thailand.


Polls show public support for the regime has steadily dropped,
amid growing worries about the nation's political and economic
future.

