

Oil prices rebounded in Asian trade Tuesday as an appetite for
risk returned to the markets as global equities showed signs of
shaking off recent nervousness, dealers said.


At 11:36 am (0336 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in April, was up 39 cents to 56.98
dollars a barrel from 56.59 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May climbed 42 cents to 60.94 dollars.


"It seems in Asia, there is a big increase in risk appetite ...
seen in the gains in equities, declines in the prices of US
Treasuries (bonds), resumption of the yen-carry trade and gains
in commodities," said CFC Seymour chief investment analyst
Dariusz Kowalczyk.


The increase in risk appetite was driven by Wall Street's one
percent gains on Monday, boosted by several merger and
acquisition deals and stronger sentiment in European markets, he
said.


"The improvement in confidence of traders in US and Europe is
showing in Asian trading as well, evident in the increase in risk
appetite and rising crude prices. That's why crude is touching 57
dollars. There's no other market fundamental pushing the oil
prices," Kowalczyk said from Hong Kong.


A Societe Generale report released Monday said the short-term
momentum in oil is more negative than market fundamentals. They
expect crude price to test the 55-dollar level this week and then
rebound.


In the near-term, oil prices could draw support from strong
demand for gasoline (petrol) ahead of the summer driving season
in the United States, starting May 31, Sucden analyst Michael
Davies said in US trading hours.


In Brent trade Monday, the market climbed after London-based
Centre for Global Energy Studies (CGES) said prices were set to
jump over the coming months following OPEC's decision to maintain
output levels.


Meeting in Vienna, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries decided to maintain its daily output target at 25.8
million barrels, arguing that global supply levels were healthy.


"By failing to increase oil supply, OPEC has set the scene for
another upward spiral in oil prices over the summer," CGES said
in its monthly report.


"Having cut output at the start of the winter, OPEC always risked
taking too much oil off the market at a time when demand for its
exports was strong and that is exactly what has happened," it
said.


"Plunging temperatures and slower-than-expected growth in non-
OPEC output have depleted stocks and left crude oil in short
supply."


OPEC, which supplies more than one-third of the world's oil, cut
production in November and February.

