

Gunmen have kidnapped two Chinese workers in volatile southern
Nigeria, China said on Tuesday while expressing impatience with
the third such incident in the African country this year.


"We hope the relevant parties in Nigeria can take seriously
China's concerns and make their utmost efforts to save those
missing citizens," foreign ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao told a
regular news briefing.


"We request the Nigerian government to pay high attention to the
repeated cases in this regard, and to take necessary measures to
end such cases."


The pair was abducted on Saturday in the southeastern Nigerian
state of Anambra by unidentified gunmen, an earlier foreign
ministry statement said.


The identities of the captives have not been made public, but an
earlier statement by the ministry called them employees of a
Chinese-funded company.


A Nigerian government spokesman had told AFP on Monday that two
"Asians" and a Nigerian were kidnapped in Anambra from their
factory at Nnewi. It was unclear whether he was referring to the
same incident.


Southern Nigeria has seen an upsurge in kidnappings of foreigners
over the past year, centred on the oil-rich Niger River delta, by
armed groups who say they are seeking a larger share of the
country's oil wealth for delta residents.


Five Chinese telecoms workers were abducted in early January and
released unharmed about two weeks later.


Another nine Chinese oil workers were kidnapped on January 25
before being freed unharmed after 11 days in captivity.


"China is requesting competent authorities in Nigeria to make all
efforts to help save them," Liu said of the latest kidnap
victims.


"We hope their safety can be maintained."


"China will take the safety of the lives of Chinese citizens as a
top priority and closely cooperate with the parties concerned in
order to make all efforts to save them," he added.


Beijing has been aggressively courting African countries such as
Nigeria, the continent's biggest oil producer, in a diplomatic
drive criticised by some as motivated by China's desire for
energy resources.


As part of the drive, it also has sent many experts and workers
to build infrastructure projects on the continent.


The circumstances surrounding the release of the past Chinese
hostages have not been fully explained.


A Nigerian government official previously declined comment when
asked whether the group of nine oil workers, who were employed by
China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC), had been ransomed.


Separatists in the delta region kidnapped more than 60 foreigners
last year, mostly in the oil sector, and killed 37 Nigerian
soldiers and dozens of local oil workers.

