

A blockbuster bid by British bank Barclays to merge with Dutch
group ABN Amro would create the world's fifth-biggest bank and
make strategic sense, an analyst here said on Tuesday.


Prospects of a bid pushed up the value of shares in both banks
which revealed late on Monday that they were in "exclusive" talks
over a possible merger that would create a group capitalised at
more than 160 billion dollars (120 billion euros).


Barclays is a leading British bank with interests also in Europe,
Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.


ABN Amro has also expanded into emerging markets in Asia and has
interests in the United States, Canada and Mexico. It has 4,500
branches in 53 countries.


The combined enterprise would have 47 million clients and employ
220,000 people in 50 countries.


In trading here early on Tuesday, the price of shares in Barclays
surged by 2.22 percent to 692 pence.


The group's shares had fallen by nearly 1.0 percent on Tuesday on
concern among analysts that Barclays, the third-biggest British
bank, might overpay for ABN Amro.


"Although we do think cost-efficiency improvements could drive
value creation in a merged group, a bid-fuelled jump in ABN's
share price could sap the potential," said Panmure Gordon analyst
Sandy Chen.


He added: "Broadly speaking, the two groups complement each other
strategically, both in terms of geographical distribution and
business mix."


Shares in ABN Amro, which is listed on the Amsterdam stock
exchange, surged 3.64 percent to 31.03 euros in early deals on
Tuesday, after a 9.6-percent jump the previous day.


"Barclays PLC confirms that it is in exclusive preliminary
discussions with ABN Amro Holding NV concerning a potential
combination of the two organisations which will create value for
both sets of shareholders," Barclays said in a statement
overnight.


Both banks had said in near-identical statements that the
"discussions are the result of careful consideration to create a
highly complementary partnership."


They said: "The talks are at an early and exploratory stage and
there can be no certainty that they will lead to a transaction."


A takeover by Barclays of ABN Amro would create the world's
fifth-biggest behind Citigroup, Bank of America, both of the
United States, China's ICBC and British rival HSBC.

