

Egypt's parliament has passed a series of controversial
constitutional amendments that the government insists will
strengthen democracy but which the opposition brands an effort to
prop up the regime.


Members of the ruling National Democratic Party, which controls
three quarters of parliament, erupted into cheers and sang the
national anthem when the amendments to 34 articles of the
constitution were passed late on Monday.


The move took opposition demonstrators by surprise, as protests
had been planned to coincide with a vote on the final batch of
amendments which had been expected to take place on Tuesday.


What President Hosni Mubarak billed as the "biggest and widest
constitutional amendments since 1980" have yet to be submitted to
a referendum, which could take place as early as March 26,
sources in parliament said.


Parliament speaker Fathi Surur announced that 315 out of the 454
members of the chamber voted in favour of the amendments.


He did not say how many voted against the amendments but more
than 100 deputies -- including the 88-strong Muslim Brotherhood
bloc -- boycotted the debate.


While many of the changes simply remove outdated socialist
language dating from earlier regimes, key modifications now
enshrine in the constitution extraordinary powers for security
forces to fight terrorism.


Critics also say the amendments are designed to pre-empt any
further gains by the opposition and pave the way for Mubarak's
son Gamal to take over the reins of power.


"The reason it was done this way is because there is corruption
and there is an oppressive regime trying to ensure its future and
ensure a gradual and smooth transfer of power to Mubarak Junior,"
Brotherhood MP Hazem Faruq told AFP.


"There were no members of the opposition involved in the drafting
committee," he said. "It was cooked up in the kitchen."


Hussein Abdel Razeq, secretary general of the leftist Tagammu
party, said the regime decided to speed up the process because it
felt it was losing popular support.


The amendment of Article 179 has come in for particular criticism
since it would allow the authorities to arrest suspects, search
their homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a
warrant.


It would also allow the trial of civilians by military courts in
terrorism cases.


Another amendment will mean that future polls will be supervised
by an ill- defined "supreme independent council", repealing the
role of the country's independent-minded judges, widely credited
for the opposition recent gains.


Two NDP lawmakers also voted against these amendments.


"These two amendments will roll back progress on freer elections
and negatively affect provisions on general freedoms that already
existed in the constitution," said ruling party MP Taher Hozain,
who said he otherwise supported the amendments.


But ruling party MP Saad al-Gamal said: "We will not get rid of
judicial supervision, but will put in place a new model of
supervision. There will be guarantees for the transparency of
elections."


"A Black Day in the history of Egypt" was the headline of the
liberal opposition Wafd party's mouthpiece on Tuesday.


"The majority will be held responsible in front of the people,"
the newspaper quoted party leader Mahmud Abaza as saying.


"These amendments are the death knell for democracy," said Nasser
Amin, director of the Arab Centre for the Independence of the
Judiciary. "The regime is opting for gangland tactics rather than
the politics of state."


The government maintains that the measures are necessary in the
battle against international terrorism and are already being used
by Western democracies.


"It is totally wrong to say that Article 179 gives unlimited
power to the police," said Ali Eddin Hilal, spokesman for
Mubarak's ruling party. "That's only true in the case of
terrorism, as is the case in many other countries like Great
Britain and the United States."


London-based rights watchdog Amnesty International dubbed the
amendments the "greatest erosion of human rights in 26 years."


They were adopted as observers argue Washington has eased the
pressure on Egypt, once the focus of US efforts to bring
democratic change to the Middle East.

