

Iraq sent another of Saddam Hussein's former henchmen to the
gallows on Tuesday as the nation marked the fourth anniversary of
the US-led war still battling a raging insurgency and sectarian
conflict.


Former vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan was executed before
dawn for crimes against humanity over the killing of 148 Shiites
in the 1980s, less than three months after the feared former
dictator was himself hanged.


"Ramadan was hanged at 3:05 am (0005 GMT) today," said Bassem
Ridha, a senior advisor to Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


Ramadan, aged almost 80, was the fourth regime official to be
executed for his role in the killings of the Shiites from the
village of Dujail after an attempt on Saddam's life there in
1982.


"The execution was smooth with no violation," Ridha said, after
an international outcry over the manner of the previous hangings
of Saddam and his former cohorts.


Footage of Saddam being taunted then executed on December 30 was
circulated on the Internet, to the delight of Shiites who
suffered under his regime, but seen internationally as a blunder
undermining the legitimacy of the process.


The January 15 hanging of Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti -- Saddam's
half brother and head of the feared secret police -- was
particularly gruesome, with his head ripping from the body as he
plunged through the metal trap door.


"He was very calm and composed. He asked his family and friends
to pray for him and said that he was not afraid of death,"
defence lawyer Badie Aref said of Ramadan before his execution.


Iraqi leaders say they are determined to punish officials from
Saddam's Sunni- led regime, whose supporters are blamed for much
of the continuing bloodletting.


On Tuesday, a car bomb in a car parts market in Baghdad killed
one person and wounded six, a day after at least 55 people were
killed or found murdered in Iraq.


US President George W. Bush, facing growing opposition to the war
at home, said it would take months to secure the violence-plagued
capital and warned that a troop pullout now would be
"devastating".


In the four years since the launch of the "shock and awe"
military campaign on March 20, 2003, Iraq has descended into a
sectarian hell that has left tens of thousands of civilians dead.


Bush pleaded for patience on Monday with his unpopular Iraq
strategy and Washington's revamped efforts to restore order.


"The Baghdad security plan is still in its early stages and
success will take months, not days or weeks," he said.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home. That may be
satisfying in the short run, but I believe the consequences for
American security would be devastating."


At 5:35 am four years ago on Tuesday, Tomahawk missiles and
precision-guided bombs rained down on Baghdad targets as Saddam
vowed it would be "Iraq's last battle against the tyrannous
villains."


But on April 9, Saddam's statue in a central Baghdad square was
torn down with a rope around the neck, in a premonition of his
own hanging.


As the war enters its fifth year, a new poll showed US public
opinion had soured further, with just 32 percent of Americans
saying they favoured the war, compared to 72 percent on the eve
of conflict.


And despite claims by the Bush administration that the month-old
US troop surge in Baghdad was beginning to work, another poll by
Western media organisations told a story of deep Iraqi pessimism.


Only 18 percent of Iraqis had confidence in foreign troops, just
38 percent said the situation was better than before the invasion
and barely a quarter said they felt safe in their own
neighbourhoods.


Protests have been staged across the United States and in several
European cities and Japan against a war that was originally based
on a premise of eliminating weapons of mass destruction that were
never found.


Commanders are now pouring 25,000 reinforcements into Baghdad to
quell Sunni- Shiite fighting, the bloodiest element of the
conflict and one which even the Pentagon admits amounts to civil
war.


In western and northern Iraq, Al-Qaeda militants pursue their
brutal insurgency against the US-backed government, while in the
south and centre Shiite militias jostle for supremacy and control
of oil resources.


The launch of the Baghdad security plan has driven some sectarian
death squads from the streets, but car bombs still explode every
day, scattering bodies and bloodied debris through crowded
markets.


"There has been a steady decline in the Iraq situation since the
invasion. Things have gone from bad to worse," said Joost
Hiltermann of the International Crisis Group think tank.


Estimates of Iraqi civilian casualties over the past four years
vary wildly, but the Iraq Body Count website figure of 58,800 is
among the more conservative.


Two million Iraqis have fled the country and 1.8 million have
been displaced within its borders, according to UN figures.


At least 3,203 American, 132 British and 124 other foreign
soldiers have also died since the invasion.


Iraqi officials point to a constitution and the creation of a
national unity government by an elected parliament -- with 25
percent of its members women -- as signs of progress since
Saddam's fall.


US commanders, with a wary eye on plummeting public and political
support for the war back home, also point to reconstruction and
economic development efforts as the great untold story of the
war.


Nevertheless, the violence and the corruption that has dogged
Iraq's post- invasion reconstruction have delayed much progress
in terms of utilities such as electricity supplies.


And a series of US operations has so far failed to fill the
security vacuum caused by Washington's decision to disband
Saddam-era armed forces which opened the field to Al-Qaeda and
Iranian-backed militia.

