

"Kollywood," the nickname given to Nepal's fledgling movie
industry, is planning a major revival in the wake of a peace deal
that has brought renewed national hope and calls for home-grown
films including stories by former Maoist rebels.


The decade-long Maoist insurgency claimed l3,000 lives and
wrecked the economy of the Himalayan nation -- and the movie
industry was no exception.


After King Birendra restored democracy in the face of mass
protests in 1990, like many other sectors the film industry has
witnessed robust growth.


Cinema halls mushroomed across the country, reaching a peak of
530 theatres in the mid 1990s.


But the bloody Maoist "people's war" that ensued left only around
200 theatres and shrank production to fewer than 15 movies a
year.


However, investors now see renewed demand and plan 40 movies this
year with even former rebels getting in on the act.


"Finally peace has prevailed in the country and film makers are
excited to get back into the business. Even the Maoists are
entering into the mainstream cinema," said Sailesh Acharya,
chairman of Nepal's Film Development Board, a government body.


The boom time for Nepali film was 2001-2002 when more than 50
films were made.


"Around 50,000 people were employed during the booming period. It
was a great moment but unfortunately the Nepali film industry
suffered heavily in the years after," said veteran director
Laxminath Sharma.


Today only around 20,000 people are involved in the film
business, according to officials.


"The conflict meant that people feared going outside. The last
thing for them would be to watch movies," said Acharya.


Acharya admitted that Nepali movies were heavily influenced by
Bollywood, neighbouring India's fabulously successful Mumbai-
based film industry, and that movie directors had been unable to
get away from the tried and tested formula of romantic story
lines with song-and-dance numbers.


"Our language and culture are very much similar to the Indian
counterparts and we share an open border so there is high
influence of Bollywood movies among Nepalis," he said.


A typical Nepali movie is a romance story with a larger-than-life
male lead who has to defend the honour of his girlfriend after it
has been offended by rogues.


The often bloody action sequences are interspersed with song and
dance routines, and the couple nearly always live happily ever
after.


The first Nepali-language movie, called "Harischandra," was made
in 1951 in India.


Until the 1980s, only state-funded films were made, but that
changed in the 1980s as political activism gained ground and many
Nepalese resented the cultural invasion of Indian movies.


The movement for local films peaked in 2000 with "Caravan," a
movie about salt traders in the Himalayas.


It was jointly produced by Nepal and France and directed by
Frenchman Eric Valli. It was nominated for an Academy Award in
the best foreign film category, a first for the Himalayan nation.


For director Sharma, who considers cinema a blend of literature,
art and science, a lack of technical equipment and trained
specialists seems to be the biggest problem for the industry.


"Movies are being made on hit-and-trial basis. Our films failed
miserably to woo the audiences because they don't relate to
people in any way. We lack vision, research and technical know-
how," said Sharma, who has 11 feature films under his belt.


"We are always making escapist films. We have nobody to blame but
ourselves."


Nayan Raj Pandey, a struggling script writer, agreed that the
skills to make films that people want to see are in short supply.


"The movie industry is in the hands of amateurs. All the films
have a similar plot. Nobody dares to try something different,"
Pandey said.


Meanwhile rival India, the world's largest producer of movies,
has cornered the market for the song-and-dance romance format
popular across South Asia as well as with the sub-continental
diaspora worldwide.


Cinemas in Kathmandu, which accounts for more than 40 percent of
the total Nepali market, are dominated by Hindi-language films
imported from India.


"People have easy access to Bollywood blockbusters due to the
availability of pirated VCDs and DVDs at rock bottom prices. They
expect the same kind of quality from Nepali movies, which is
impossible," said Madan Krishna Shrestha, a prominent film maker
in Nepal.


For Subel Bhandari, 24, editor of the popular youth magazine
"Y!," watching Nepali movies is a "painful job".


"We want movies that are realistic, something that we could
relate to but film makers do not understand what audiences want,"
said Bhandari.


But Nepal's former rebel Maoists, believe they have the formula
to produce home- made cinema -- in a revolutionary way.


The Maoists' cultural unit is engaged in producing at least three
films - "Lal Salaam" (Red Salute), "Jana Yudh" (People's War) and
"Aawaz" (Voice) - all portraying different aspects of their
decade-long civil war.


"The future of Nepali cinema is very promising and we will break
the old patterns of copying stories from Indian films," said
Shiva Lamichhane, who is busy shooting "Lal Salaam".


Lal Salaam ("Red Salute") is a movie based on the exploits of
various Maoist battalions and will dramatise the most important
clashes in the bloody "people's war".


Although the crew are professional, the roles of soldiers will be
taken by real life  former fighters, Lamicchhane said.


"We will prove that a successful films does not necessarily need
to be a big budget production. If it has the originality then it
sells anywhere."

