

Japan's petite judo queen Ryoko Tani believes her struggles in
raising her first baby will only boost her comeback bid for a
third straight Olympic gold medal next year.


"I wake up three times a night and breastfeed my son," the 31
-year-old said here Monday as she started full-scale training for
national trials next month ahead of the world championships in
September.


"Like any other mother, it is burdensome to me. I don't get
enough sleep each day," Tani said.


Now that her son Yoshiaki is 15 months old, Tani is determined to
make it an Olympic three-peat: "It's time for a gold medal as a
mama. I want to realise the dream in Beijing."


The judo icon married a professional baseball player in 2003 and
gave birth to a boy two years later -- ditching her bid for a
record-stretching seventh straight world title to become a
mother.


Tani held the world champion crown in the lightest under-48kg
bantamweight since 1993 until she stopped competing two years
ago. Now, her comeback bid is reigniting the national love for
the sport Japan gave to the world.


On the long road to Beijing, she first needs to clear the
national championships here in her hometown in southern Japan on
April 7-8 in order to compete in the world championships in Rio
de Janeiro.


The 146-centimetre (4 foot 10 inch) judoka started jogging for 20
minutes a day in December and has now stretched that time to 40
minutes.


"I have no worries physically or mentally," Tani said after
undergoing her first day of intensive training -- including full
bouts of grappling and throwing -- with some 20 male and female
students at a high school here, her alma mater.


"But my biggest worry is how to find time for breastfeeding and
caring for my son at a contest," she said. "I am at a stage of
building up my rhythm for that cycle now."


The master of the seoinage shoulder-throw also said that
parenting could have athletic virtues.


"While holding my son, who weighs 12 kilograms, I have to bend
and stretch about 300 times," she said with a smile. "At times, I
also have to stay still with my son in my arms for 20 minutes or
so and it has boosted my grip."


"Indeed, breastfeeding saps quite a lot of energy but that does
not affect my condition," she said. "It's like I am growing with
my child. When I look at him sleeping and playing, I feel like
hanging in there."


"After the big experience, I believe there is nothing I cannot
do," she said. "I feel like I'm one scale bigger."


Tani can take heart from other outstanding female athletes before
her who have made comebacks after childbirth.


Ethiopia's Derartu Tulu, the 10,000-metre Olympic gold medallist
in 1992, won the title again in 2000 after giving birth in 1998.
Marathon world record holder Paula Radcliffe of Britain is aiming
for world and Olympic gold after having her first baby in
January.


But she could be the first Japanese mother to win an Olympic
title in 2008.


"I'm doing it my way," Tani said, adding that she had no
particular rivals in mind. "As I have always said, if you cannot
deal with any opponent, you cannot make it in the world."


Tani made her international debut here in 1990 by winning the
prestigious Fukuoka Cup when she was just a 15-year-old student
at the high school annexed to the Fukuoka Institute of
Technology.


She has reached the gold-medal showdown in every Olympics since
1992, coming up short in the first two before making it third
time lucky in Sydney in 2000 and repeating in Athens in 2004.

