

South Korean steel giant POSCO said Tuesday it has no immediate
plans to drop a planned 12-billion-dollar plant in India even as
deadly protests against other projects cast doubt on their
future.


"As of now, we don't have any intention to withdraw from India.
We are definitely determined to continue with this project," a
senior POSCO official, who did not wish to be identified, told
AFP.


"We don't have any plan to withdraw in the near future," the
official said.


While repeating that the company intended to press ahead, the
official also said, without specifying a timeframe, that if "we
have to wait for much longer than we expected in India (on the
project) then we might think of terminating at some point in the
future."


The statement came after local reports Tuesday that POSCO was
considering shifting its focus to another low-cost Asian country
such as Vietnam.


"With too many problems dogging the POSCO project in the state,
the South Korean steel major is reportedly planning to shift its
focus to Vietnam, where it has proposed a steel plant," a report
in the Times of India said Tuesday.


The official said POSCO was "very much concerned" about an
incident last week when police in the eastern state of West
Bengal shot dead 14 villagers opposing the forced sale of their
land for a special economic zone (SEZ) which would be home to a
huge petrochemicals project built by an Indonesian firm.


The government said Monday it would "refine" the controversial
policy.


POSCO signed an agreement with neighbouring Orissa state that
granted it almost 4,000 acres (1,600 hectares) for its largest
overseas investment in 2005 -- the same year India launched its
Chinese-style SEZs which, offering modern infrastructure and
other benefits, are intended to drive the economy forward.


The POSCO project is also India's biggest singe foreign direct
investment.


However, just a month before construction is slated to start, the
company has yet to acquire the land required and local villagers
are also protesting.


The official said the Orissa project was about six months behind
schedule.


At the same time, the official noted the company was pursuing
investments in Vietnam alongside its plans in India.


"We are pushing some projects in Vietnam -- that is true -- but
at the same time we are pushing through this project in India,"
he said. "We are pursuing both projects at the same time."


The official said the company was relying on the state government
to complete the land acquisition while POSCO was trying to appeal
to locals as well to get them on side with the project.


"We have opened several health camps. We already set up training
camps for jobs for locals," he said. "We are doing everything we
can do to change local people's minds."

