

The chief of world figure skating's governing body said Tuesday
he is worried about a slow response from North American networks
to buy TV rights for the 2009 world championships and 2010
Olympics on their home ice.


International Skating Union president Ottavio Cinquanta said he
had yet to work out figure skating deals with US and Canadian
networks to cover the world championships in Los Angeles and the
Vancouver Winter Games.


"I'm very concerned," he told reporters at the start of the world
championships here. "In both countries, we are encountering
difficulties for TV. I am speaking about the countries that
invented television.


"I will try to use part of my character, let's say diplomacy if I
have any, in order to find a solution," said the outgoing
Italian, also an executive  member of the International Olympic
Committee.


The ISU's multi-year contract with the US sports channel ESPN for
international coverage of figure skating will expire next season,
and a contract with Canada's CBC at the end of this season.


However, Cinquanta said the governing body had signed new
contracts with other networks worldwide, including a four-year
deal with Japan's Fuji TV.


For contractual reasons, he said the ISU only had a "provisional"
agreement for Los Angeles hosting the world championships in
March 2009.


The advent of new winter sports, including snow boarding, is seen
to have eroded the well established niche of figure skating in
the television market.


Cinquanta also said the ISU was considering holding figure
skating Grand Prix finals for seniors and juniors together in
December 2008 to cope with the declining number of highly
competitive skaters in the technically demanding sport. The
senior and junior GP finals have previously been held separately.


There were only four men at the 2006 final in St. Petersburg won
by Brian Joubert of France after two Americans, Evan Lysacek and
Johnny Weir, withdrew due to injury or poor physical condition.


The finals are competed by the top six skaters selected on the
basis of results in GP events.


But the ISU chief said some skaters tended to skip GP events due
to poor physical form and other reasons, including appearances in
exhibitions elsewhere.


"This is a result of sophisticated and very difficult standards
in figure skating. This could result in the lowering of the
number of participants in an event," Cinquanta said.

