

Rescue efforts continued Tuesday in a bid to find 13 miners whose
fate remained unknown after a devastating gas explosion tore
through a Siberian coal mine Monday, killing at least 97 people,
Russian officials said.


"We are looking for 13 more, 97 have been found dead," the
Kemerovo Governor Aman Tuleyev's spokesman Sergei Cheremnov said
at the site.


Earlier, the emergency situations ministry's spokesman told AFP
that the blast killed 81 people, and 92 others had been rescued.


According to local officials quoted by the Interfax news agency,
one of those killed by the blast was a British "banking expert
who was examining the enterprise to determine its solvency."


Meanwhile, Russia's Emergency Situations Minister Sergei Shoigu
and a team of the ministry's expert rescuers flew to the site to
take part in the operation, which already includes 14 teams of
specialist emergency workers.


"The search is very difficult, because there is bad ventilation,
there is flooding, there was a lot of destruction," Cheremnov
said.


"We just hope that they are alive," said one miner taking part in
the rescue operation, his face caked with coal dust.


The blast happened at the Ulyanovskaya mine near the town of
Novokuznetsk in Kemerovo region, some 3,000 kilometres (2,000
miles) east of Moscow. The huge mine is operated by
Yuzhkuzbassugol, an affiliate of Russian metals group Evraz.


"We believe that the explosion was caused by the sudden collapse
of a tunnel, and that led to a gas leak," Cheremnov said,
stressing that the mine "was considered one of the safest mines
in the Kemerovo region."


Each victim's family would receive compensation of one million
rubles (some 37,000 dollars), a sum which both the company and
the regional administration would contribute to, Cheremnov added.


Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov said Monday that authorities would
launch an investigation into the accident and that a criminal
case had been opened.


"More strict measures on safety are needed in these kinds of
dangerous situations," Fradkov told reporters in Pretoria, RIA
Novosti reported.


"Naturally, it is first of all the owners of such enterprises
that need to pay more attention to questions of maintenance,"
Fradkov said.


The coal industry in Kemerovo, a region in southwest Siberia, has
suffered from chronic underfunding since the collapse of the
Soviet Union and there have been several accidents there in
recent years.


Twenty-three miners were killed by a gas explosion in 2005 in
Kemerovo region and two separate mine blasts in the area in 2004
killed a total of 60 miners.


News agencies reported that the 270-metre-deep (900-feet-deep)
mine was opened in 2002 and was equipped with modern technology,
including gas control systems.


The accident nonetheless was a grim reminder of serious safety
concerns facing Russian miners and the weakening of trade unions
that in Soviet times could paralyze sectors of the national
economy.


Alexander Sergeyev, the chairman of the Independent Trade Union
of Miners, said widespread reforms were needed to ensure safety
in Russia's mines.


As well as requiring Russian mines to have state-of-the-art
safety equipment, the Russian government should fight against the
practice of miners being paid based on production quotas, he told
Moscow Echo radio.


"Miners often have to work hastily and ignore possible dangers,"
if they want to earn reasonable salaries in the mines, he said.

