

The Bank of Japan on Tuesday played down concerns about the
health of world markets and the US housing sector as it left its
benchmark interest rate on hold at 0.5 percent as expected.


BoJ governor Toshihiko Fukui said the central bank would closely
monitor global equity markets but suggested that the recent
worldwide sell-off had been a necessary adjustment after earlier
sharp rises.


"We understand that the recent developments on the global capital
markets, including stock markets, are within the scope of a
healthy correction," he told a press conference.


Fukui also appeared unperturbed by the recent signs of distress
among US "sub- prime" or riskier mortgage lenders.


"It is generally accepted that the sub-prime loan issue would not
shake the US economy and that the recent volatile movements in US
financial markets do not signal any major change in the US
economic fundamentals," he said.


Earlier, the BoJ's monetary policy board decided by a unanimous
vote to hold interest rates steady this month, a decision that
had been widely expected.


The Bank of Japan last month raised its key lending rate from
0.25 percent to 0.50 percent, its first hike since last July when
it ended over five years of virtually free credit.


The BoJ has faced political pressure not to raise interest rates
too quickly and with inflation still very subdued, the central
bank is expected to move cautiously with further monetary
tightening.


Analysts say that political sensitivities linked to the July
elections in Japan's upper house of parliament mean that the
BoJ's next increase in interest rates is unlikely to come before
the second half of 2007.


"Minus a full-throttle slowdown in the US economy, the market is
likely to grow hopeful of another rate hike after the release of
January-March (gross domestic product) data and once the upper
house elections enter the picture in May-June," predicted Morgan
Stanley economist Takehiro Sato.


The BoJ left its assessment of economic and financial
developments unchanged for March, saying the economy "is
expanding moderately".


Exports "are expected to continue rising against a background of
expansion in overseas economies," the BoJ said.


Domestic private demand "is likely to also continue increasing,
given high corporate profits and the moderate rise in household
incomes," it added.


The BoJ said that core consumer price inflation could stay
"around zero in the short run, due to the drop in the price of
crude oil."


But the central bank said that consumer prices were expected to
follow a positive trend over the long term as the output gap --
the difference between total and potential production --
continues to improve.

