

West Indies coach Bennett King has demanded his team discover a
killer instinct if they are to win the World Cup.


West Indies became the second side to confirm a place in the
Super Eights of the tournament with a six wicket victory over
Zimbabwe at Sabina Park on Monday, but having reduced the African
side to 59-4 they then allowed their opponents to reach a
respectable 202-5 off 50 overs.


"We certainly didn't bowl as well as we did the other day (in the
opening win over Pakistan), and the wides, (15 in total), are
still a concern because we bowled too many of them," complained
King.


"We probably should have been looking at a target of 150 to 170.
We've still got some work to do on those middle overs. We found
it hard to get some wickets there."


Chasing 203 to win, West Indies reached their target with 13
balls to spare, when captain Brian Lara lofted Elton Chigumbura
over wide long-on for a six.


The victory gave West Indies their second straight win in the
competition, following their 54-run triumph over Pakistan.


The win puts West Indies in the lead of Group D with four points,
one more than giant-killers Ireland, and three ahead of Zimbabwe,
leaving Pakistan at the bottom with no points.


"This was a scrappy win, and I'm glad that we fought it out nice
and hard to get the points," King said.


"The pitch showed that if you got in, you really needed to
knuckle down, work hard and continue on. It took people a little
bit of time to get in once they started, and we didn't do that
very well."


King feels that Zimbabwe, torn apart by players' strikes and
political strife, and debutants Ireland have made good use of the
resources at their disposal.


"Sometimes the conditions and the environment can aid sides,"
said the coach.


"I think Ireland and Zimbabwe have given a good account of
themselves. They have played good cricket. Zimbabwe kept on
fighting in this match, and I think (coach) Kevin Curran has done
an absolutely wonderful job with the side."


West Indies and Ireland complete the group phase on Friday, two
days after Pakistan and Zimbabwe contest their final match on
Wednesday.

