

The colourful and controversial Inzamam-ul-Haq brings the curtain
down on his one-day career here on Wednesday as Pakistan end
their tragedy-hit World Cup with a match against Zimbabwe.


Professionally shattered by the defeat against Ireland and
personally devastated by the sudden death of coach Bob Woolmer in
the aftermath of the loss, the 37 -year-old is left playing only
for pride.


Ironically, a much-needed victory for his team would also have
the knock-on effect of putting his tormentors Ireland into the
second round Super Eights.


Inzamam has told his mis-firing team that they owe it to
Woolmer's memory to win in style on Wednesday.


"He was always helpful to the players and his feelings were with
them," said Inzamam.


"He was a very good coach but a super human being. Because of
this he had a lot of respect from the team.


"After the match against Ireland he was upset but he said to me
and to all the players that these things happen in cricket. He
was brave and knew how to handle the situation when everybody was
feeling down.


"He will be well remembered. Now we are in trouble because we are
out of the World Cup. But over the last three years our win ratio
has been very high."


Inzamam has played 377 one-day matches over a 15-year career,
scoring 11,702 runs at 39.53 including 10 hundreds and 83
fifties.


He was part of the 1992 World Cup winning team famously sparking
his side into the final with a blistering 60 from 37 balls in the
semi-final against New Zealand.


Younis Khan, the man widely expected to take over from Inzamam as
skipper, said that the whole team is still shocked by the events
of the weekend.


"Every Pakistani wanted us to do well at this World Cup and we
are very sorry we let them down," Younis told
www.bigstarcricket.com.


"After we beat West Indies at home everybody expected us to win
the first match against them here and we should have won it."


Zimbabwe, who arrived at the World Cup in another state of crisis
after disposing of all their senior players, have one point in
Group D to their name following their last ball tie against
Ireland.


Monday's defeat against the West Indies means that only victory
against Pakistan will be enough to keep them in the competition.


Even if they achieve that, they would then have to hope that
Brian Lara's side defeat Ireland in the last group game to leave
second round qualification to be calculated on run rates.


"We were trying for a win (against the West Indies) to put us in
a better position to reach the Super Eights, but I thought the
guys fought well which was good, so we will have to get it in our
next game," said Zimbabwe's 21-year-old skipper Prosper Utseya.

