

Egypt's parliament has passed a series of controversial
constitutional amendments the government insists will strengthen
democracy but which the opposition brands an effort to prop up
the regime.


The ruling National Democratic Party, which holds more than three
quarters of the seats in parliament, voted overwhelmingly in
favour of the amendments to 34 articles of the constitution late
on Monday.


The move took opposition demonstrators by surprise, as protests
had been planned to coincide with a vote on the final batch of
amendments which was initially expected to take place on Tuesday.


What President Hosni Mubarak billed as the "biggest and widest
constitutional amendments since 1980" have yet to be submitted to
a referendum, which could take place as early as March 26,
sources in parliament said.


Parliament speaker Fathi Surur announced that 315 out of the 454
members of the chamber voted in favour of the amendments.


He did not specify the number who voted against the amendments
but more than 100 deputies -- including the 88-strong Muslim
Brotherhood bloc -- boycotted the debate.


Members of the NDP erupted into cheers and sang the national
anthem when the amendments were passed.


While many of the changes simply remove outdated socialist
language dating from earlier regimes, key modifications now
enshrine in the constitution extraordinary powers for security
forces to fight terrorism.


Critics also say the amendments are designed to pre-empt any
further gains by the opposition and pave the way for Mubarak's
son Gamal to take over the reins of power.


"There reason it was done this way is because there is corruption
and there is an opporessive regime trying to ensure its future
and ensure a gradual and smooth transfer of power to Mubarak
Junior," Brotherhood MP Hazem Faruq told AFP.


"There were no members of the opposition involved in the drafting
committee," he said. "It was cooked up in the kitchen."


The amendment of Article 179 has come in for particular criticism
since it would allow the authorities to arrest suspects, search
their homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a
warrant.


It would also allow the trial of civilians by military courts in
terrorism cases.


The change to Article 88 governing elections is also
controversial because it repeals the judicial supervision of the
ballot boxes credited by the opposition for their gains in recent
elections.


Instead, under the amended article, elections will be supervised
by an ill- defined "supreme independent council" that will
probably be appointed by the government.


Egypt's independent-minded judiciary repeatedly clashed with the
state following accusations by the judges of attempts to rig
legislative and presidential elections in 2005.


"These amendments are the death knell for democracy," said Nasser
Amin, director of the Arab Centre for the Independence of the
Judiciary. "The regime is opting for gangland tactics rather than
the politics of state."


The government, however, maintains that the measures are
necessary in the battle against international terrorism and are
already being used by Western democracies.


"It is totally wrong to say that Article 179 gives unlimited
power to the police," said Ali Eddin Hilal, spokesman for
Mubarak's ruling party. "That's only true in the case of
terrorism, as is the case in many other countries like Great
Britain and the United States."


London-based rights watchdog Amnesty International dubbed the
amendments the "greatest erosion of human rights in 26 years."


They were adopted as observers argue Washington has eased the
pressure on Egypt, once the focus of US efforts to bring
democratic change to the Middle East.

