

Baptisms are sometimes carried out in a horse trough, hymns are
often accompanied by a banjo and the congregation places
donations in a leather boot. Welcome to church-going -- cowboy-
style.


The Lemhi River Cowboy Church in Idaho is part of a growing
movement in the American West that seeks to rope a traditionally
non-churchgoing group -- cattlemen, horsemen, rodeo riders --
into weekly Christian worship.


Non-denominational cowboy churches are cropping up in remote
stretches of Arizona, Idaho and Texas in a trend Christian
ministers say is re-evangelizing a region known for its
religious, political and cultural independence.


"It's a boots and jeans crowd," says the Reverend Mike Palmer,
the Southern Baptist behind the Lemhi River Cowboy Church. Church
members meet in a century- old frame building set amid sagebrush
flats and open sky.


Palmer is among ministers who believe cowboy churches must be as
down-home and non-traditional as the crowd they cater to,
provided they don't dilute Christian doctrine.


"You don't have to be a chaps-wearing cowboy to attend and we
don't turn you away if you don't have a cowboy hat on," says Ross
Goddard, an Idaho rancher and true believer in the concept of
cowboy churches.


But don't plan to turn up in a fancy suit and wingtips, said Jeff
Smith, cowboy missionary and head of the Cowboy Church Network of
North America.


In the four years since Smith launched the network, which is
affiliated with the Southern Baptist Convention, it has grown to
encompass 35 churches in the US and Canada.


"This is not the church your grandma goes to," he says. "This is
church in a barn, in an arena, in a saddle club, with no carpet
and no padded pews."


It's a place where cow dogs are welcome and where Bible study may
be followed by team roping. It's a venue where members might
literally engage in a bit of horse-trading after services --
which usually fall on a day and time most likely to accommodate
the work cycle of a cattle ranch, a grain farm or a horse
operation. Sermons are conducted in a plainspoken style which
suits a congregation that places a premium on straight talk.


In a land of Wranglers, Levis and big belt buckles, where church
affiliation has been historically low, the challenge for
Christian ministers is to reach rural residents separated by vast
distances but connected by their relation to the land.


But don't mistake being unchurched as unbelieving in cowboy
country. Ferenc Szasz, author of "Religion in the Modern American
West," said that while cowboys did not crowd to churches in the
late 19th and early 20th centuries, it's rare to encounter an
atheist among them.


"My theory is that you rarely find a cowboy without a sense of
God because they're outside in capital-N nature and have a
respect for God's handiwork," said Szasz, professor of history at
the University of New Mexico.


He argues that religion played a pivotal role in settlement of
the West because it supplied a form of community where none
otherwise existed.


Today's cowboy churches evoke a bygone era when Plains pioneers
and Western settlers gathered in dugouts, barns and community
buildings to renew their faith and cement their fellowship


"I would say cowboy churches provide a sense of sub-community
that is so necessary," said Szasz.


Most of the estimated 600 cowboy churches nationwide aren't tied
to a specific Protestant sect but all are evangelical in nature.


At a time when many mainline Protestant churches in the US are
experiencing declining enrollments, the population of evangelical
Protestants continues to swell, according to a RAND Labor and
Population working paper.


Scholars offer varying explanations, with some theorizing that
growth follows the church that adapts to local needs, according
to the think tank's study.


Evangelical churches such as the Southern Baptist Convention
emphasize missionary work. The convention sponsors more than
5,000 missionaries in 153 nations but its call to support cowboy-
friendly churches is an attempt to identify and minister to a
discrete culture in the nation's own backyard.


Of the Lemhi River Cowboy Church, founding member Shannon
Williams said: "It brings church to the people."


Unlike many parts of Europe, where church and state have
historically been linked, the American tradition of separation
gave rise to an open religious market infused, like American
business, by an entrepreneurial spirit, said James Wellborn,
professor of American religion with the Jackson School of
International Studies at the University of Washington.


Not that every cowboy or cowgirl must be a believer. But to rodeo
riders, the Lemhi River Cowboy Church's Palmer offers this
aphorism: "If you're going to climb on a 1,500-pound bull, you'd
better know God."

