

China has banned firms flush with new share sale proceeds from
investing the money in securities in the latest regulatory move
aimed at cooling stock market fever, the government said Tuesday.


"Companies should not directly or indirectly use newly acquired
funds to buy stocks or derivatives or convertible company bonds,"
the China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a statement on
its website.


Firms must use the proceeds from share sales for the intended
purposes, according to the statement.


If the enterprises intend to spend more than 10 percent of the
raised capital on items that the share sale was not originally
aimed at funding, they must get board approval and arrange an
online shareholder vote, it said.


The tougher approach follows on from an announcement in February
by the regulator that it would tighten rules against insider
trading by executives of state-owned listed firms.


Hundreds of millions of dollars in fresh funds have flooded into
the nation's stock market over the past year, much of it from
cash-rich state enterprises looking for somewhere to put their
money.


The speculative activity has driven equity prices up by around
150 percent over the last 15 months.


The frenzy has prompted officials to repeatedly warn that a major
bubble had formed and that investors, especially inexperienced
retail punters, stood to lose everything if the markets crashed.


On February 27, investors got a strong taste of the kind of
volatility that worries regulators when China's key Shanghai
index slumped nearly nine percent in its steepest one-day fall in
10 years. Prices have since largely recovered.


In another step aimed at dampening the frenzy, banking regulators
have moved to investigate a sudden spike in consumer loans
believed to be fuelling the market speculation, according to
previous state press reports.


The China Banking Regulatory Commission ordered in January that
commercial banks recall property loans suspected of being used
instead to speculate in the nation's red-hot stock markets.


Chinese authorities are concerned that if speculators borrow from
banks to fund investments and then lose their money, the banks
could face an avalanche of non- performing loans.

