

Relatives of an Afghan driver beheaded by the Taliban accused
their government Tuesday of not caring about his fate after the
Italian reporter captured with him was freed in exchange for five
Taliban.


About 200 angry family members protested outside an Italian-run
hospital in Lashkar Gah, southern Afghanistan, where Daniele
Mastrogiacomo was recovering after his release Monday.


"Why would the government release five criminals for an infidel
foreigner and not for a poor Afghan?" demanded Khan Jan, an uncle
of the slain driver Sayed Agha, who was captured March 4 with
Mastrogiacomo and a translator.


Another uncle, Delbar Jan, told AFP that "(President Hamid)
Karzai promised to, and did, help release a foreigner. But he
never mentioned about his own Afghans."


"The government is making sacrifice for foreigners, but not for
an Afghan," he said.


Mastrogiacomo said Monday Agha was decapitated in front of him. A
spokesman for Dadullah told the Pajhwok Afghan News agency last
week that the driver was killed because he was "a spy."


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah said in a recorded message to
Pajhwok  that he had freed the Italian in exchange for five of
his men: his brother, two information officers and two
commanders.


The fate of the translator, Ajmal Naqshbandi, was unclear
Tuesday.


The government would not confirm the deal, but a Western diplomat
said the international community was informed about it Tuesday.


The United Nations welcomed Mastrogiacomo's release. "However on
the issue of negotiations, the UN does not negotiate with
terrorists," spokesman Adrian Edwards told AFP.


"We are of course very happy about his release," said the head of
the Afghan Independent Journalists Association. "But this was not
a good way to do that. This is not acceptable for us," Rahimullah
Samander told AFP.


"Our concern is that after this kind of exchange the journalists
will become a target -- there will be more and more kidnaps by
Taliban and Al-Qaeda."


Afghan analyst Waheed Mujda said the deal was a sign of weakness
in the government and its foreign allies, who are trying to put
down a Taliban insurgency that has grown steadily since the
hardliners lost government in 2001.


"No doubt this is a victory for Taliban and shows the weakness of
the government and foreign forces," he told AFP.


"This release could encourage criminal groups in the country to
get involved in the lucrative business of abduction," he added,
recalling that Dadullah announced months ago a reward for the
capture of journalists.


The Taliban will also likely use the tactic in the future to
secure the freedom of their people, said Mujda.


"Instead of killing people they arrest right away, they will keep
them for exchanges," he said.


The analyst also questioned how the government could exchange men
considered "terrorists" by the United States. "Prisoners of war
are exchangeable but with this deal, a law is made that
terrorists are also exchangeable."


A foreign diplomat said Monday: "You may as well stick 1,000
dollar bills on the back of any foreign journalist heading down
south."


In Lashkar Gah, capital of Helmand province where Taliban allied
with the drugs mafia are known to control certain districts, the
family of the driver wanted answers.


"We want to know what happened to our brother," one relative
said, asking to remain anonymous, adding that the family wants
the driver's body returned "if he is dead."


"He was a poor man and had six kids. Who is going to look after
them?"

