

It's a weekday morning, and a stuffy stock trading floor in
Vietnam's largest city is a beehive of activity, filled with
people who should be somewhere else.


Absentee office workers, students and housewives jostle for space
with professional traders, shouting buy and sell orders with
their eyes fixed on the red figures of the electronic board of
the Saigon Securities brokerage.


Vietnam is in the grip of stock fever, and everyone is getting
into it.


An army of giddy investors, many of them blissfully unconcerned
with the more technical points of equity trading, are driving a
bull market that last year outperformed every other bourse in
Asia.


"I don't know much about the companies," said 56-year-old
housewife Nguyen Thi Huong, taking a punt in a securities company
in Hanoi. "I make orders with the crowd. Sometimes I lose,
sometimes I make money. It's a lot of fun."


Vietnam's main stock exchange, the HCMC Securities Trading
Centre, is only seven years old, but its growth has been
stunning, from around 300 million dollars in early 2006 to a
volume of over 16 billion dollars now.


Last year the benchmark VN-Index rose nearly 145 percent, and so
far this year it has gained over 47 percent.


Seasoned market watchers and the International Monetary Fund have
warned the market is overheating, forming a dangerous speculative
bubble.


Despite those concerns, the VN-Index bounced back from recent
international jitters and a mid-week wobble to close last Friday
at 1,109.76 points, up 4.15 percent for the day.


The stocks frenzy is driven by optimism about the "mini-China"
economy which last year grew by 8.2 percent and is set to gain
more steam as Vietnam's January entry into the World Trade
Organisation boosts exports and investment.


The market has gained momentum since global financial
institutions such as Merrill Lynch and JP Morgan joined the fray
and after US President George W. Bush last November visited the
Ho Chi Minh City stock exchange.


As the communist government is plunging the country head-first
into the free market era, state-owned enterprises are issuing
stock to tap the country's large and idle savings pool for
capital.


For ordinary Vietnamese -- known for their love of gambling on
anything from football matches to buffalo races -- this has
equated a gold rush, fuelled by tales of fabulous overnight
riches.


"Now in Vietnam no business is more profitable than stock
trading," said Tran Thanh, 45, who quit his job to become a
market player and says he turned less than 10,000 dollars into
over 300,000 dollars in two years.


Market mania may rein on the official trading floors, but for
many investors the real action is online, a trend that has
transformed coffee shops and tea houses into centres of market
trade and gossip.


Many state companies have in recent years issued to their
managers and staff unlisted shares which are now hotly traded in
an unregulated market that dwarfs the official market.


About 700 companies are traded on this grey market compared to
fewer than 200 on the official markets, said Le Nhi Nang, deputy
director of the HCMC exchange.


But in the absence of reliable balance sheets or a strong
financial press, many traders act on gut feelings and rumours
picked up from co-workers, at weddings or on a plethora of
websites and chatrooms.


"A vegetable seller might earn more money than an economics
professor because her analysis is simple," said Thanh, himself a
self-taught investor who has snubbed scores of new training
courses on offer.


Andy An Ho, director of Prudential Investment here, says many of
the new "momentum or speculative investors" will "most likely
know little about the companies they invest in and will rely
heavily on their friends, neighbours, insiders and brokers for
recommendation."


Thanh says that he spends much of his time in a coffee shop with
wireless Internet access to track real-time market news.


"Online forums are also very useful, but we have to be careful
because most of the information on them is not real," he said.


Vietnam's regulators have been at pains to catch up with the
stocks craze.


Hanoi has backed off plans to impose capital controls, which had
caused jitters among foreign investors, but has ordered stricter
oversight and imposed fines for spreading false information and
insider trading.


Yet the grey market remains an unregulated world where knowing
the right people with the right information is key to sorting out
the winners from the losers.


"Having internal information is very important," confided a 29
-year-old state employee who asked not to be named. "Several of
my colleagues, especially bosses, have become very, very rich
recently.


"Sometimes I have inside information, for example that a company
is going to obtain a big contract with a foreign partner," he
said. "I share that with one or two of my best friends so we can
benefit together.


"Thanks to trading stocks," he added with a smile, "I bought an
apartment last month, and soon I will pick up my new Toyota."

