

Rescuers wearing oxygen tanks and breathing masks pulled more
corpses to the surface here Tuesday after a gas explosion in a
remote Siberian coal mine left 97 people dead in one of Russia's
worst mine disasters in a generation.


Loud blasts, apparently controlled explosions, and heavy smoke
poured out of the main shaft at the Ulyanovskaya mine followed
immediately by dozens of rescuers filing into the concrete
entrance and descending down the shaft in a relentless search for
survivors still trapped underground.


"We're hoping to find more people alive," Russian Emergency
Situations Minister Sergei Shoigu, dispatched by President
Vladimir Putin to oversee rescue operations, told reporters at
the site, located about 3,000 kilometers (1,850 miles) east of
Moscow.


Local officials said that more than 90 miners who were
underground when the blast occurred on Monday had been rescued
alive but added that efforts were continuing to locate at least a
dozen other people still believed trapped underground.


"The search is very difficult," said Sergei Cheremnov, a
spokesman for the governor of the region of Kemerovo where the
mine is located.


"There is bad ventilation, there is flooding and there was a lot
of destruction."


Gennady Melnikov, a representative of the local branch of the
emergency situations ministry, said rescuers encountered scenes
of carnage underground.


"We worked all through the night," he said. "It was terrible. A
lot of people died. And when we brought them up, they were all
dismembered."


The mine, operated by the firm Yuzhkuzbassugol which owns a dozen
other mines in the region, was said by officials to be equipped
with some of the most modern mine safety equipment available in
the industry and was a showpiece for an initial public stock
offering (IPO) planned for this year.


Yuzhkuzbassugol is a subsidiary of Russian metals giant Evraz.


The explosion however occurred as the bulk of the mine's
management was underground accompanying a visiting British
auditor reported to be inspecting the facility in connection with
the planned IPO.


"Practically the whole of the management of the company died in
the accident," Kemerovo Governor Aman Tuleyev said.


He said 20 members of the mine's management team were killed in
the explosion and ensuing underground fire, including the
facility's chief engineer and chief mechanic. The mine's director
was spared as he was on holiday, Tuleyev said.


The Briton was named by local officials as Malcolm Robertson, an
employee of the Britain-based mine auditing firm IMC.


A spokeswoman for the British embassy in Moscow said British
officials were in close contact with Russian authorities and were
seeking more information, but did not confirm the Briton's death.


Search and rescue operations were being conducted under tight
security -- around 30 OMON riot police backed by regular local
police were posted near the entrance to the facility -- and
families of the victims were prevented from entering the grounds
of the mine.


The injured were being ferried to a local hospital and around a
dozen ambulances waited on standby outside the entrance to the
main mineshaft.


The Ulyanovskaya mine is located on a hill covered with pine
forest but the snow on the ground surrounding the facility is
caked with coal dust.


The accident was one of the worst to hit Russia since the 1991
collapse of the Soviet Union.


On December 2, 1997, 67 miners were killed, also as the result of
a methane gas explosion, in a mine in the same region. Five weeks
after that incident, 27 miners died in a mine explosion in
Vorkuta in northern Russia.


The latest accident highlighted safety concerns for workers in
Russian coal mines who often scramble through narrow tunnels and
dislodge coal from the ground using their bare hands and their
feet.


"More strict measures on safety are needed in these kinds of
dangerous situations," Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov, speaking
on a visit to South Africa, was quoted by RIA Novosti news agency
as saying.


Authorities said each victim's family would receive compensation
totalling one million rubles (around 37,000 dollars).

