

Hotel owners in Nepal's capital said Tuesday they will start
turfing out tourists as part of intensifying strike action over
continued Maoist extortion and violence.


Business leaders acknowledged the move would be hugely damaging
to the sector, a staple of the Himalayan nation's economy, but
said patience had run out after a hotelier was kidnapped and
beaten up by Maoists for failing to provide free rooms and cash.


"We know such strikes are suicidal for us, but we have been
forced to take this step. The government has failed to provide
security to business people," Prakash Shrestha, the president of
Nepal's Hotel Association, told AFP.


The Maoists publicly pledged to end violence when they signed a
peace deal with Nepal's central government last year, but
accusations of intimidation, extortion and violence persist.


On Monday, the first day of strike action following Sunday's
beating, Nepal's Internet providers cut access to the web, and
shop owners in Nepal's capital called for indefinite nationwide
business closures.


"We have asked all guests including foreign tourists to leave our
hotels within the next seven days. We want zero occupancy in our
hotels," Shrestha said.


The former rebels initially denied any involvement in the attack,
but on Tuesday admitted that two of their members were involved.


"Our party has suspended them," said Badri Bajgain, a local
Maoist leader. "We are investigating the incident and will make
our findings public in a week."


Worldlink, one of Nepal's main Internet providers, also cut
access again for an hour on Tuesday morning and said it would
continue downing lines until the government took action against
what many business people see as mafia-like Maoist practices.


The company cited "the government's failure to provide security
to the private sector."


Banks and schools were also closed Tuesday as thousands of
business owners gathered in Durbar Square, the heart of ancient
Kathmandu, and repeated calls for government protection.


Nepal's Maoists and government signed a landmark peace deal in
January that ended a decade of civil war in which more than
13,000 people died.


Under the deal, the Maoists agreed to register their fighters and
weapons with the United Nations and enter the political
mainstream.

