

The impromptu meeting between US soldiers and locals outside the
Shic Man Barber Shop in Baghdad's dangerous Karkh district was
not going well. And that was before the sniper fire began.


Agitated adults greeted the early morning arrival in pot-holed
Sheikh Marouf Street of four Humvees and two Bradley armoured
vehicles from the 9th Cavalry Regiment by queuing up with lists
of grievances.


Children, saying they came home early from school "because no
teachers turned up," pestered the soldiers for chocolates and
footballs.


Troop commander Captain Christopher Dawson had returned to the
neighbourhood -- once a hotbed of sectarian violence, but a whole
lot calmer since a Baghdad security plan was launched last month
-- to check on the state of play.


He was particularly keen to see how a trash cleanup programme the
US military is working on with the Iraqi authorities was going.


It wasn't. Piles of garbage littered the street. Spades, brooms
and wheelbarrows had been abandoned in front of a derelict ice-
cream shop that bore a crude drawing of Mickey Mouse slurping on
a cornet.


Men in blue overalls, smoking cigarettes and talking heatedly,
complained that they had not been paid and that the garbage truck
had broken down.


Almost as an afterthought, one worker added: "And we also get
shot at quite often -- every day in fact.


"Shiite snipers fire on us from those buildings over there," he
said, pointing to a cluster of 10-storey apartment blocks with
orange facades fronting onto nearby Haifa Street, a notorious
Sunni bastion.


Residents and workers then excitedly started pointing out
pockmarks on the walls of the shuttered shops and smashed windows
of those not protected by metal roll- down doors. The deserted
Sadi fried chicken outlet appeared to be particularly favoured by
the snipers.


Dawson and his second-in-command, Sergeant Victor Cuadrado,
handed out cards bearing a hotline number they said residents
should call next time there is shooting.


Kamir Rasheed, wearing a yellow tracksuit with the words "G-Unit"
emblazoned across the chest, said he and others had tried to call
the hotline in the past, but to no avail. "We make complaints but
they're ignored," he said.


Then the gunfire began, even as Dawson was assuring Rasheed that
he personally would look into the problem of snipers.


Four or five shots in quick succession reverberated through the
alleyway where Rasheed had been showing off a local project that
had restored electricity to the street.


Dawson and his troops immediately assumed combat positions as
residents ducked for cover into nearby houses.


"It came from that building over there," said a man in a long
black Arabic-style shirt, singling out one of the high-rises. "It
was a man wearing a white shirt."


A boy aged about 10 was produced. He rolled up both legs of his
trousers to show scars. "He says he was hit by sniper fire two
months ago," explained an Iraqi interpreter, his face covered in
a ski mask to avoid being identified.


Dawson found the spent cartridge casing of a bullet. "This is
from a high- powered rifle," he said. "It's not new but it
indicates that snipers have been active right here as well."


He and his troops edged forward, sheltering in doorways and
behind hedges and cars, while gunners in the vehicles trained
their binoculars on the building.


"We're hoping he will show himself again," the captain said.


After what he called a "tactical pause" -- lying low for about 20
minutes -- he decided to trick the sniper into believing the
troops were pulling out.


Leaving one Bradley hidden from view, but still in a position to
observe any movement from the high-rise, the other vehicles
headed out of the neighbourhood and patrolled down Haifa Street,
a favourite target of Sunni insurgents.


At the same time, Dawson called in Apache helicopters to help.
"Maybe they can get an elevated view," he said.


"Snipers are difficult to find. By the time we get there he may
have already gone. Our options are to kick down every door of the
building -- but then we will upset too many people not involved
in this."


After establishing that neither the choppers nor the Bradley crew
had managed to pinpoint the sniper's location, Dawson eventually
called off the search.


"I don't think he's going to stick his head back out," he said
with a shrug.


"It is a delicate balance. We have a 'people landscape' to
consider here. We have to weigh the costs against the benefits.
This sniper has not been very effective. There are no bodies.


"If we put all our forces here what does it mean for other
security operations?" the captain asked as his Humvees and
Bradleys headed back to base and the street cleaners returned to
their cigarettes and idle chatter.

