

Asian stocks closed mostly firmer Tuesday as investors
consolidated Monday's sharp gains and settled down to wait for
the US Federal Reserve's meeting on interest rates, dealers said.


They said there was no incentive to take positions aggressively
until the two- day Fed meeting ends Wednesday, with most
expecting no change in policy but wanting to see what the central
bank will say about the US economic outlook and recent problems
in the all important housing market.


A sharp rise in US mortgage defaults sparked another global
equity sell-off last week on concerns the fallout could hit
consumer demand, the US economy's main driver. While stocks have
largely recovered the lost ground, no one wants to get caught out
of position by the Fed.


The established view earlier this year was that after a series of
strong data, the Fed would keep rates unchanged for some time.
Following more recent figures and the housing sector problems,
that has changed sharply, with a rate cut now seen as possible by
mid-2007.


The Bank of Japan's decision Tuesday to keep its rates on hold,
as expected, had no discernible impact in Tokyo, up 0.90 percent,
and analysts there now say it is unlikely for there be any
further move until well into the second half of the year.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices bounced back for a second straight
day as overnight gains on Wall Street and a softer yen provided a
further boost to recovering investor sentiment, dealers said.


They said a decision by Japan's central bank to leave its
benchmark interest rate on hold at 0.5 percent had little impact
on the market, which clawed back more lost ground after the heavy
recent sell-off.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 153.65 points or 0.90 percent to 17,163.20,
extending Monday's 1.59 percent advance.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section was up 14.21 points or 0.84 percent to 1,708.29.


Gainers beat decliners 1,194 to 426, with 111 stocks flat.


Volume was 1.90 billion shares, unchanged from Monday.


"The market's gains were helped by rallies on the US stock
markets as well as by the weaker yen," said Fumiyuki Nakanishi,
chief strategist at SMBC Friend Securities.


"Property stocks were also higher, supported by positive
expectations on the outcome of the 2006 land prices survey on
Thursday," Nakanishi said.


Investors largely ignored a Bank of Japan decision to hold its
key lending rate at 0.5 percent, a move that had been widely
expected after the quarter-point rate rise last month.


The focus now is on the US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC)
which was due to kick off a two-day interest rate meeting later
Tuesday amid concerns about US bad home loans.


"Eyes are on whether the FOMC will remove the phrase suggesting a
possible rate hike ahead," said Kazuhiro Takahashi, equities
manager at Daiwa Securities SMBC, referring to the Fed's
statement after the meeting.


He said investors would likely buy stocks actively on continuing
hopes for corporate earnings growth once the Fed decision is out
of the way.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.47 percent higher on
expectations of strong results from blue chips such as China
Mobile and with a rally on Wall Street bolstering sentiment,
dealers said.


They said the gains were kept in check by caution ahead of a US
Federal Reserve policy meeting and worries that China might adopt
more tightening measures following the interest rate hike
announced over the weekend.


The Hang Seng Index was up 90.16 points at 19,356.90, off a high
of 19,463.90 and a low of 19,332.60. Turnover was 39.61 billion
dollars (5.10 billion US).


"The market extended (Monday's) strong gains after Wall Street's
rally overnight, with large cap China Mobile continuing to see
buying interest on hopes that it will report strong results,"
said Conita Hung, research head at Delta Asia Securities.


Hung said overall market sentiment remains positive on hopes for
strong results announcements from major companies.


Hutchison Whampoa, Cheung Kong and Bank of China are among others
due to announce their results this week.


Hung said the market is likely to keep within a 19,000-19,500
points range this week, as investors keep an eye on overseas
bourses and the much awaited Fed's comments on US inflation and
housing market outlook.


The Fed's meeting on interest rates ends Wednesday. The markets
expect no change in policy but want to see what the Fed has to
say about the economic outlook, especially in light of growing
problems in the housing market.


SEOUL: South Korean shares closed little changed with investors
awaiting the outcome of the US Federal Open Market Committee
meeting on interest rates, dealers said.


Initial sentiment was bolstered by Wall Street's overnight rally
but the market moved back and forth with some profit-taking by
institutions after three consecutive sessions of solid gains.


Banks enjoyed sustained interest from foreign investors amid a
strong quarterly earnings outlook, dealers added.


The KOSPI index ended up 0.78 points at 1,444.17, off a low of
1,440.42 and a high of 1,449.67. Volume was 361 million shares
worth 3.3 trillion won (3.5 billion dollars). Falls just outpaced
rises by 372 to 367, with 94 stocks unchanged.


"The market lost much of its steam after the recent run-up, with
many investors sidelined ahead of the US interest rate decision,"
said Dongbu Securities analyst Kim Seung-No.


He said the market will likely test its previous high if the US
Fed meeting ends Wednesday without any nasty surprises.


While most in the markets do not expect any change in interest
rates, investors are hoping for clear guidance from the Fed on
the US economic outlook after recent problems in the key housing
sector.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed little changed as investors
opted to lock in profits after early gains inspired by a strong
Wall Street performance overnight, dealers said.


They said caution set in as investors tried to avoid getting
caught in a possible market turnaround near the technical
resistance level of 7,800 points.


The weighted index slipped 1.26 points to 7,736.20, the low for
the day and off a high of 7,798.27, on turnover of 103.63 billion
dollars (3.13 billion US). Decliners led risers 670 to 428, with
208 stocks unchanged.


Five stocks closed limit-down and 16 limit-up.


Capital Securities analyst Alan Tseng said that "7,800 points
proved to be a barrier hard to surmount in one go."


He said investors likely now suspect that the recent recovery
from heavy sell- offs in the past couple of weeks has largely run
its course.


"When shares begin trading sideways in other regional markets,
there is no justification why the Taipei bourse should be an
exception," he added.


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices closed 0.59 percent higher on
follow-through interest, with metals and property stocks gaining
ground after an early wobble, dealers said.


They said sentiment was subdued in early trade after gains of 2.8
percent Monday when investors shrugged off a third central bank
interest hike in a row to push the key Shanghai Composite Index
through the key 3,000 points barrier.


There were some concerns that the authorities might take further
measures to cool the economy but news Tuesday that they were
tightening up regulations to ensure the proper use of share issue
proceeds had no immediate impact.


There have been reports that some listing proceeds have been used
for purposes other than stated in the listing plan, including
money going into stocks, and the latest step is part of a broader
reform effort in the markets.


Turnover continued heavy, encouraging the view that stocks could
soon test record highs again, having recovered virtually all the
ground lost in the massive sell-off late last month.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, added 17.75 points at 3,032.20 on turnover of 81.63
billion yuan (10.53 billion dollars).


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 18.32 points or 0.58 percent to
3,186.04 on turnover of 81.14 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index rose 10.72 points or 1.31 percent to a record
829.53 on turnover of 43.45 billion yuan.


"The market was helped by follow-through interest after a strong
performance (Monday) despite the interest rate hike news, with
the key Shanghai index expected to breach its all time high in
coming days," said Xu Ming, an analyst at Shiji Investment.


Other analysts said more corrections are likely in the short
term, although robust corporate earnings will provide a boost to
the indices.


"There will be more consolidation in the near term but with some
upbeat annual results expected from blue chips, this might help
lift the Shanghai Composite index to a new high," said Zhu
Haibin, an analyst at Everbright Securities.


The Shanghai Composite Index hit a record 3,040.60 points on
February 26, one day before a near nine percent collapse sparked
a global equity market sell-off.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices closed 0.4 percent higher on the
back of a strong positive lead from Wall Street and domestic
merger and acquisition activity in the banks, dealers said.


They said the Asian markets picked up from where they left off
Monday, extending gains in what appeared to be a return of
confidence after two bouts of heavy selling in the past three
weeks.


At the same time, there was a note of caution ahead of the US
Federal Reserve meeting Tuesday and Wednesday, with investors
wanting to see what the Fed says about the housing market after
news of growing mortgage problems.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 added 23.2 points at 5,882.9 while the
broader All Ordinaries index rose 22.4 points to 5,861.7.


Turnover was 1.53 billion shares worth 5.05 billion dollars (4.04
billion US), with 642 stocks up, 531 down and 374 unchanged.


Reynolds and Co. private client advisor Michael Heffernan said a
strong US lead helped the local market to a strong start that
faded as the session wore on.


"It appeared to go into a holding pattern ahead of the Fed's
meeting in the US and the decision on interest rates there,"
Heffernan said.


Heffernan said stronger base metal prices boosted mining majors
BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto while the banks were boosted by Bank
of Queensland's 2.5 billion dollar bid for fellow regional bank,
Bendigo Bank.


"The Bank of Queensland proposal makes sense since a merger with
Bendigo will extend its footprint ... I don't see anyone else
coming in at this point," he said.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 0.11 percent firmer,
coming off early highs as profit-taking eroded sharp gains made
on the back of Wall Street's rise on Monday night, dealers said.


They said investors were reluctant to position aggressively ahead
of the two-day US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting
starting later Tuesday.


The FOMC is widely expected to keep its base interest rate steady
at 5.25 percent but the markets want to hear what the central
bank has to say about the overall economic outlook after recent
weakness in the US housing market.


The Straits Times Index closed up 3.49 points at 3,116.88 on
volume of 1.49 billion shares worth 1.39 billion dollars (908
million US). Gainers led losers 411 to 254, with 748 shares
unchanged.


Dealers said the market is slowly regaining its confidence
following recent sharp falls.


"Cautious optimism is returning to the market," Fraser Securities
head of research Najeeb Jarhom said.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 1.10 percent higher,
rising sharply ahead of an investment conference to be held here
starting Wednesday, dealers said.


Expectations are high that the government may announce measures
to boost share investment during the three-day event and this was
enough to push the market through the key 1.200 points barrier,
they said.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index rose 13.06 points to 1,205.28 on
turnover of 1.38 billion shares worth 1.7 billion ringgit while
gainers led losers 727 to 174, with 218 stocks unchanged.


"Today's market has painted a more positive picture, with the
benchmark index breaching the important psychological level of
1,200 points," a technical analyst at a local brokerage said.


He said investors looked for bargains ahead of the three-day
Invest Malaysia conference, which begins Wednesday, on
expectations that the government may announce more incentives in
a bid to attract foreign investors.


"Even though the local market has shown some improvement,
investors should be mindful of the potential risks associated
with developments in regional markets and elsewhere," said the
analyst.


He said that a slump on Wall Street, for example, may wipe out
gains accumulated over the past two sessions.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.39 percent higher, in line
with firmer regional stocks as investors awaited the outcome of
the US Federal Reserve meeting, dealers said.


They said the market was searching for fresh leads, with
investors putting decisions on hold because of unclear Thai
economic policies -- especially on possible interest rate cuts.


Against that backdrop, comments from the US Federal Reserve after
the end of its two-day meeting Wednesday are hoped to give some
guidance after a turbulent month for global equities.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index rose 2.62
points to 671.76 while the blue-chip SET 50 index gained 2.00
points to 469.92.


Losers led gainers 184 to 134, with 122 stocks unchanged on
turnover of 1.8 billion shares worth 7.88 billion baht (226
million dollars).


"Investors have stuck to a wait-and-see stance to wait for new
Thai economic measures, especially monetary policies to stimulate
economic development," said Adisak Kammool, a senior market
analyst at KGI Securities.


"The market expects an interest rate cut but no action has been
taken by either the finance minister or the central bank," he
added.


He said investors were also awaiting the outcome of the Federal
Reserve meeting.


"They are waiting for the Fed's decision to see the trend of
interest rate cuts and the impacts of the decision on the Dow
Jones," Adisak said.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.14 percent lower in
see-saw trade that saw profit-taking offset by gains in large-cap
stocks, dealers said.


The metals stocks were once again in focus after sharp gains in
underlying metal prices overnight, especially tin and nickel.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index lost 2.467 points at
1,775.423, off an intra-day high of 1,792.222 and a low of
1,768.8.99. Volume was 2.49 billion shares worth 2.32 trillion
rupiah (253 million dollars).


Declines led advances 88 to 51, while 62 stocks were unchanged.


"The market failed to sustain its early gains because there was
no strong reason to justify the run-up," said Prayoga Triyono, an
analyst with brokerage firm Henan Putirai.


"We didn't see any strong leads from other markets in the
region," the analyst added.


Tin miner Timah jumped 1,000 rupiah to 12,200 after the price of
tin hit a fresh record high on the London Metal Exchange.


MANILA: Philippine shares closed flat as investors fretted about
the outlook for interest rates despite solid gains on Wall Street
and in the regional markets, dealers said.


Profit-taking in Globe Telecom Inc and Megaworld Corp outweighed
gains in Philippine Long Distance Telephone, they said.


The composite index was down 2.07 points at 3,039.31 after
trading between 2,990.46 and 3,075.11. The broader all-share
index rose 0.83 points to 1,971.14. Gainers beat losers 59 to 35,
with 64 stocks unchanged.


Volume was 3.8 billion shares worth 2.1 billion pesos (43.2
million dollars.)


"There are already very strong indications by the central bank
that it is leaning towards a tightening of rates," said Ron
Rodrigo of Unicapital Securities Inc.


"This will keep investors cautious, if not (cause them to) stay
altogether on the sidelines, unless there are more positive
developments," he added.


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed 0.22 percent lower,
dragged down by market leader Telecom, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index fell 8.69 points to 4,041.61 on
turnover of 128.3 million dollars (90.1 million US).


Telecom fell eight cents to 4.55 dollars, a day after an
Australian company it has invested in -- Hutchison
Telecommunications -- said it planned to raise up to 2.85 billion
Australian dollars (2.3 billion US).


Telecom holds 19.9 percent of Hutchison subsidiary H3GA. There is
speculation Telecom would have to invest up to 300 million
Australian dollars to maintain its shareholding.


"We haven't had it confirmed that they're putting money in but
you've seen them previously put a lot of money in (Australia) and
not a lot of return, and people are talking a little bit
cynically about that," said David Price, of Forsyth Barr.


Telecom has lost heavily on its Australian unit AAPT in recent
years.


MUMBAI: Indian shares closed up 0.48 percent, coming off the
day's highs amid uncertainty over a key US Federal Reserve
monetary policy meeting starting later in the day, dealers said.


They said international and domestic interest rate worries would
keep the market under pressure.


Analysts expect the Federal Reserve to keep rates unchanged at
5.25 percent at the meeting which ends on Wednesday but add that
a possible Indian rate hike looms with inflation running at two-
year highs of 6.46 percent.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index rose 60.95 points
to 12,705.94 after gaining 214.59 points on Monday.


The Sensex fell 3.52 percent or 454.59 points last week.


"(Domestic) inflationary concerns and monetary policy tightening
remain issues of concern. We expect the markets to weaken
(Wednesday)," said Advait Date, a dealer at brokerage BHH
Securities.

