

Britain's long-serving finance minister Gordon Brown is expected
to deliver his final budget on Wednesday before taking over from
Prime Minister Tony Blair later this year.


Brown, favourite to replace Blair who is stepping down after a
decade as Britain's leader, is meanwhile likely to focus on the
environment when he unveils his 2007-2008 budget before
parliament.


"From a political perspective, it's Gordon Brown's last budget
and there is a risk that he might try something a bit special,
with a possibility that he looks further into green taxes," said
George Buckley, an economist at Deutsche Bank in London.


"There's a lot of political interest surrounding this budget, on
the assumption that he doesn't change anything in terms of
government spending targets or (tax) receipts expectations," he
added.


Amid concerns over high inflation and rising interest rates in
Britain, Brown was expected to flag Britain's strong economic
growth and on-track public finances in his budget report.


Britain's longest-serving chancellor, without interruption, is
widely forecast to take over from Blair in July or August, in
time to fight the next general elections that are due before
2010.


His eleventh tax and spending statement comes after a major
government announcement on climate change last week. With
increasing worries about global warming, the environment is
suddenly regarded as a key vote-winner.


Britain has become the first country to outline a legal framework
for forcing a cut in greenhouse gas emissions and bringing any
government to task should it fail to meet the tough targets.


"Chancellor Brown sees a need to establish 'green' credentials,
not only ahead of the next general election, but before his
likely accession," Investec analyst Philip Shaw said.


Elsewhere analysts expect few surprises.


"His hands are essentially tied by the fact that he has spent so
much money to so little effect on health, education and social
security," said Geoffrey Wood, professor of economics at City
University in London.


"He calls himself the Iron Chancellor but I see no iron in the
way he has controlled spending. He controlled spending very
tightly in his earlier period of office... but thereafter it came
pouring out at a tremendous rate."


Buckley added that government spending was likely to overshoot
again in 2006-2007.


On a long-term view, he argued that Brown has achieved great
success as keeper of the purse strings.


"The chancellor has had a very good economic record if you look
over the past ten years. You haven't seen a negative quarter of
growth for quite some time now."


In last November's pre-budget statement -- a precursor to the
annual budget -- Brown had forecast that Britain's economy would
grow by 2.75-3.25 percent in 2007, unchanged from his previous
estimate.


For its part, the International Monetary Fund has raised its 2007
growth outlook for Britain's "impressive" economy to 2.9 percent
but has warned about froth in the bubbly property market.

