

An Indonesian "mud volcano" that has displaced 15,000 people
briefly stopped spewing toxic sludge for the first time in more
than nine months, baffling scientists, an official said Tuesday.


"The flow of mud coming out of the crater suddenly stopped for
about 30 minutes shortly before noon (0500 GMT) on Monday," said
Rudi Novrianto, a spokesman for the government team trying to
plug the flow.


"None of our team members knows for sure what happened and we are
still trying to determine how it happened," Novrianto said.


The steaming crater, located near Indonesia's second-largest city
of Surabaya, merely bubbled during the pause, he said.


The temporary hiatus was the first since the mud hole began
spewing sludge in May. Indonesian experts are trying to slow the
flow by dropping chains of heavy concrete balls into the funnel,
a bold plan some say will not work.


The pause was probably unrelated to the hundreds of chains
already dropped into the mud hole, Bagus Endar Bachtiar
Nurhandoko, an official from the team battling the crater, told
the Kompas newspaper.


He said the brief halt may have occurred because parts of the
funnel collapsed, creating a temporary obstruction that was
eventually cleared by pressurised gas in the crater.


"We were worried that an explosion would follow, but it turned
out not to be the case," Nurhandoko was quoted as saying.


Experts have already dropped an initial target of 374 chains,
each comprising four concrete balls, into the crater. They hope
to narrow the funnel and obstruct the sludge in a bid to curb the
flow by up to 70 percent.


Another 500 chains are to be sunk into the mud hole, but
Novrianto said the team was still awaiting a fresh supply of
concrete balls.


Some of the experts working to calm the crater have said the
chains appear to have slowed the mudflow. They are working to
confirm the assessment with official measurements.


The hot mud began bubbling up from deep underground in late May
last year after exploratory gas drilling at the site by a local
firm, PT Lapindo Brantas.


The sludge has inundated some 600 hectares (1,500 acres),
including many homes and factories, leaving thousands of people
homeless and jobless.


The mud also threatens to swamp a key railway, which is to be
rerouted away from the danger zone.

