

Deadly clashes over India's plans for Special Economic Zones,
touted as a way to woo foreign investors and spur economic
growth, have cast a dark cloud over their future, analysts say.


Hailed as one of the biggest pushes for industrial expansion in
post- independence India when the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) act
was passed in 2005, the protests have sparked a national debate
about acquiring farmland for the gated business enclaves.


"Compensation for the land is not enough. Even if you give
farmers money... the money will get spent and what will they do
then?" said Ajai Sahni, executive director of the New Delhi-based
Institute for Conflict Management.


Unrest over the duty-free zones boiled over last week when 14
villagers protesting moves to buy their land for a chemical hub
to be built with the help of Indonesia's Salim Group died in
police fire in Nandigram in the eastern state of West Bengal.


The killings took place in a state ruled by Marxists for the past
30 years, who have recently attempted to show an investor-
friendly face to the world.


The Indian government on Monday promised Monday to "refine" its
policy on special economic zones.


"The SEZ policy will be refined in consultation with the state
government, the farmers who own the land and industrialists,"
federal Home Minister Shivraj Patil was quoted as saying by the
Press Trust of India.


Last Thursday's violence was the bloodiest yet over efforts to
get land for SEZs -- privately-run parks with world-class
infrastructure promoted by New Delhi as central to India's
economic growth drive.


"The killings in Nandigram have put a big question mark over the
proposed industrial parks acquiring agricultural land," said
political analyst Sabyasachi Basu Roychowdhury.


Violence two months earlier at Nandigram in which 11 protesters
died prompted the central Congress-led government to put on hold
dozens of SEZ applications, but it insisted on Saturday it would
press ahead with the zones.


Federal Commerce Minister Kamal Nath said India remained
"absolutely" committed to the SEZs, adding if New Delhi did not
swiftly clear the applications, investment could be lost to other
countries.


"There's investment competitiveness from Thailand, from
Philippines, from Indonesia. If FDI (foreign direct investment)
is coming to our Special Economic Zones it can also jolly well go
to Thailand, Philippines and Indonesia," he said.


There are 14 SEZs in India and proposals for hundreds more.


India's plans for SEZs were inspired by the tax-free zones
Beijing set up a quarter of a century ago that helped propel
China's rapid industrial growth.


Keen to become more competitive with China in drawing global
investment but lacking the political muscle to quickly improve
water, power and transport, the government decided to allow the
private sector to set up SEZs.


In return for establishing infrastructure, SEZ developers would
get tax breaks. But controversy has dogged acquisition of the
land for the zones.


Just 35 percent of land has to be devoted to industrial activity
and the remaining 65 percent can be used for commercial complexes
or housing projects -- raising fears the zones will simply spark
a real estate gold rush.


"Why should incentives be given to real estate developers in the
name of SEZs?" asks Communist leader Sitaram Yechury.


Some two-thirds of India's billion-plus population are employed
in agriculture.


"When we convert agriculture land, we take away from a household
its main source of income, its main occupation," said Laveesh
Bhandari, head of Indicus Analytics, an economics research firm.


"Therefore it is not surprising to see farmers, their wives and
children all vehemently protesting against such a takeover," he
said.


Thursday's killings in Nandigram came on the same day as Maoist
rebels stormed an isolated police post in central Chhattisgarh
state, killing 55 officers in one of their biggest attacks in
recent years.


Sahni, who has studied the insurgency for a decade, believes
Maoist militancy is on the rise in India and the unhappiness over
land acquisition is providing the rebels with a "very, very
fertile recruiting ground."


Police in West Bengal said Maoist militants are active in the
region.


"Some Maoist groups operating in West Bengal have joined a
committee to save agricultural land,"said Raj Kanojia, state
police inspector general. "The administration is very worried
about this development."


Add the land controversy to grinding poverty in rural areas where
social indicators show many problems worsening, despite scorching
national economic growth of more than nine percent, and it
creates a potent mix, Sahni said.


"Some things have improved from liberalisation, but rural
distress has increased -- there's been a decline in employment,
food security, health services," Sahni said.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh last year called the Maoist
insurgency the biggest threat to India's internal security while
investment bank Citigroup recently warned the rebels could
undermine industrialisation and investment.


Maoist militants are active in 15 of India's 29 states.


The Maoists are "absolutely a genuine threat to this whole rosy
scenario of growth," said Sahni.

