

Trying her utmost to thwart the media pack, Hollywood star
Angelina Jolie drove Tuesday to the US embassy in Hanoi seeking a
visa for the three-year-old Vietnamese boy she has adopted.


The Oscar-winning actress, thought to be with her new son Pham
Quang Sang, evaded photographers trying to take the elusive
picture that could sell for a fortune.


They were hidden by barricades at the hotel entrance and by
tinted windows and a curtain in the backseat of their van, to
foil the media crowd who have followed them on every step of
their Vietnam visit.


Her bodyguard, wearing dark sunglasses, gestured rudely to
photographers before their van disappeared into the carpark of
the embassy mission, guarded by Vietnamese police and US security
staff.


Jolie and her team asked that staff at the US embassy be
instructed not to take pictures with mobile phone cameras during
the noon-time visit, a source said.


The 31-year-old screen star used a private plane to travel last
week to Ho Chi Minh City, where she picked up the boy from an
orphanage, and on to Hanoi where she arrived Monday.


The US embassy Tuesday declined to comment on the adoption case
for privacy reasons, but said processing a US immigrant visa
takes 24 hours and that the applicant does not have to return
there.


"An adopted child is eligible for American citizenship
immediately on their first arrival in the United States," an
embassy official said.


Jolie has said she will rename the boy Pax Thien, combining the
Latin word for peace and the Vietnamese word for heaven or sky.


He will join what Jolie and her partner, fellow Hollywood idol
Brad Pitt, have called their "rainbow family."


They already have a five-year-old, Maddox, who was adopted in
Cambodia and has been travelling with Jolie here, as well as two-
year-old daughter Zahara, adopted from Ethiopia, and biological
daughter Shiloh, born last May.


Meanwhile Maddox and his new brother have been getting to know
each other despite their language barrier, reported local media,
playing with each other in the carpeted corridors of the
capital's luxury Sofitel Metropole hotel.

