

British Chancellor Gordon Brown delivers what may well be his
last budget Wednesday with his long-held ambition of becoming
prime minister virtually in his grasp -- but voters remain
unconvinced.


Both the British public and members of his Labour Party seem as
far as ever from showing enthusiasm for the Iron Chancellor,
despite prolonged efforts to shed his image as a dour, workaholic
Scotsman.


A new poll on the eve of his likely budget swansong confirmed
that voters are distinctly unenthused, with young, modernizing
opposition Tory leader David Cameron way ahead according to the
latest figures.


An ICM survey for Tuesday's Guardian put support for a Brown-led
Labour government at just 28 percent, against 43 percent for a
Cameron-led Conservative administration.


The survey's findings underscore a long negative trend.


Since December 2005, when Cameron became leader of the
Conservatives, which he has modernised and repositioned at the
political centre, some 20 polls have predicted defeat for Labour
under the austere Brown against the jovial Cameron.


Only two surveys, at the beginning of last year, have put the two
men on equal footing.


Blair, who has headed the Labour Party since July 1994, will have
spent 10 years at 10 Downing Street on May 1. On Tuesday, the
Labour leadership was due to set out the procedures for replacing
him.


Blair's departure will indeed not trigger general elections as
the new leader of the party that holds a decisive majority in
parliament will automatically become prime minister.


Brown has awaited this moment since 1994, the date of a reported
deal that has never materialized, under which Blair would cede
the reigns of power to Brown after a few years in Downing Street.


While Brown's allies called him the most successful chancellor
for a generation, presiding over growth with low inflation and
falling unemployment, his critics have seen him for years as a
schemer responsible for in-fighting.


Such criticism came to the fore again last September when Brown
was accused of having orchestrated a coup by party rebels that
forced Blair to pledge publicly that he would resign within a
year.


He denied the charges, but doubts about Brown do not go away. One
former cabinet colleague dubbed him a "control freak," while a
serving minister forecast that voters would soon hanker for the
return of Blair.


Brown is portrayed by his allies as a hard-working man of
substance who will command the respect of his party and nation;
he is a master of detail rather than a spinmeister.


Such a portrayal is a dig at Cameron and possibly Blair as well.


To loosen up his image, Brown, the son of a Presbyterian
minister, has taken to flashing a smile and talking about his
personal life, while also trying to defuse concerns among English
voters about his Scottish background.


During a party speech last September, Brown said he acquired from
his parents "an enduring set of values that put the needs and
concerns of the British people first."


Concern over Brown's unexciting image seeps deep within the
ruling Labour party.


In a survey early this month, some 73 percent of Labour members
supported an election contest within the party to succeed Blair,
when he finally announces the exact date of his departure.


Labour's executive body was due to meet Tuesday to decide on the
timetable for the party's leadership transition.


According to the British media, Blair might name the date on May
4 or 5, with most commentators forecasting he will leave office
at the end of June or in July.

