

Former Grand Slam champion Michael Chang is being lined up to
coach one of China's top women's tennis hopes for the 2008
Olympic Games, state media reported Tuesday.


Chinese-American Chang, a tennis icon in Asia who won the French
Open as a 17 -year-old, is already working with 21-year-old Peng
Shuai, one of the women players China is grooming for Olympic
glory, the China Daily said.


Last year Chinese officials rebuffed Chang when he offered to
help prepare their women for the Olympics.


He spent five weeks in Beijing trying to arrange a meeting with
Sun Jinfang, the head of the tennis federation, but failed. They
eventually met during the Shanghai Masters Cup in November but
nothing was agreed.


However Chang, a Protestant pastor who runs his own charity,
persevered and is currently in talks with sports authorities from
Tianjin, Peng's hometown near Beijing, the newspaper quoted a top
tennis federation official as saying.


"It's still the early stages, but everything is possible between
Chang and Tianjin (officials)," said Gao Shenyang, vice director
of China's Tennis Administration Center, which runs the sport.


Ranked 40th in the world, Peng is China's number three player,
behind Li Na, 17th, and Zheng Jie, 32nd.


In her breakthrough season in 2005 Peng rose to 31st in the
world, then reached the third round of Wimbledon last year, her
best Grand Slam finish.


Gao said that Tianjin tennis authorities contacted Chang in
January and officials from the port city were in the United
States last week for further talks.


Chang worked with Peng at last week's Pacific Life Open
tournament in Indian Wells, California.


"We have kept in touch with Chang in recent months and I think
his arrival will be good for us," Gao was quoted as saying.


Chang, 34, was the youngest French Open champion in history in
1989 and remained one of the world's top players throughout the
next decade. He retired from professional tennis in 2002.


Women's tennis has taken off in China in recent years. Zheng and
Yan Zi won the country's first ever Grand Slam titles at the
Australian Open and Wimbledon in 2006.

