

Uzbek Al-Qaeda militants clashed with tribesmen in northwest
Pakistan, killing seven people including two teenagers who died
when a shell hit a crowd of students, officials said Tuesday.


Heavy exchanges of rocket and mortar fire broke out on Monday and
continued on Tuesday in Kalusha town in the troubled tribal
region of South Waziristan, which borders Afghanistan, security
officials said.


The fighting started after a former Taliban leader, Mullah Nazir,
who backs the government's moves to expel foreign fighters from
the area, ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir Yuldashev to
disarm.


One shell hit a group of private school students who had been
dropped off by a bus driver outside the town because of the
violence, killing two and wounding 27, security officials said on
condition of anonymity.


Anther shell landed in a local tribesman's house, wounding three
women and two girls, he said.


Five supporters of Yuldashev, the head of a group called the
Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, were also killed in the fighting
and 22 were detained by Nazir's men, the officials said.


Losses suffered by Nazir's faction were not immediately known,
officials said.


The clashes ended a ceasefire negotiated about two weeks ago
after fierce gunbattles between Yuldashev's supporters and pro-
government tribesmen in the nearby town of Azam Warsak in which
19 people were killed.


Yuldashev was sentenced to death in his absence for a series of
bombing in the Uzbek capital Tashkent and security officials say
he had links to Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.


He and his men were among thousands of militants who fled the US-
led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001 and took shelter in
Pakistan's lawless tribal belt along the border.


Pakistan signed a peace deal with elders and militants in South
Waziristan in 2005 after military offensives against Taliban and
Al-Qaeda members, including Uzbeks.


Islamabad's Western allies have criticised the deal -- and a
similar pact signed in neighbouring North Waziristan in September
-- as giving the Taliban and Al- Qaeda space to regroup and mount
attacks in Afghanistan.

