

Fiji's military regime has welcomed moves by Pacific Island
countries to work with it to restore democracy and indicated it
is prepared to accept some of their demands, a report said
Tuesday.


Foreign ministers from the region agreed last week to form a
working group to consult with Fiji's military-led government over
plans to call elections and restore democracy following
December's bloodless coup.


In a statement carried by the Fiji Times Tuesday, Fiji's interim
Foreign Minister Ratu Epeli Nailatikau said Fiji wanted to take
part in the working group.


"This path forward, which has been chartered by the forum,
recognises the acceptance by the forum of the interim government
and its pivotal role to take Fiji to sustained parliamentary
democracy," Nailatikau said.


"So the door has not been shut on us."


One of the points of dispute between the forum and the military
regime has been the timing of elections to restore democracy.


Nailatikau said at last week's forum meeting in Vanuatu that the
regime  could reconsider its stand that elections were at least
three years away.


The ministers -- adopting the recommendations of a forum eminent
person's group -- reiterated last week that elections should be
held within 18 to 24 months.


But Nailatikau said Monday the regime would provide information
on why it believed elections could only be held after three
years.


Coup leader and self-proclaimed interim Prime Minister Voreqe
Bainimarama has said three years would be needed to flush out
corruption, hold a census, draw up electoral boundaries and make
other preparations needed for elections.


Bainimarama indicated this week he was prepared to act on some of
the other demands recommended by the eminent persons group
report.


In a statement Monday he said the state of emergency announced
when he grabbed power on December 5 could be lifted at the end of
this month, if security conditions allowed.


He also said the military was gradually withdrawing from the
streets, with police taking over at checkpoints.


"Backup will only be provided to police when specifically
requested," Bainimarama said.


He said the country was facing economic peril, although he blamed
the government of ousted prime minister Laisenia Qarase rather
than the effects of the coup.


"The neglect, mismanagement and poor governance which existed
over the last six years has put our economy on a path of decline
and we are facing a very serious and precarious situation," he
said.


He appealed to trade unions not to call a strike over his plans
to cut government wages by five percent, saying public service
pay accounts for 40 percent of spending.

