

Round the world yachtswomen Dame Ellen MacArthur enjoyed a taste
of the Louis Vuitton Cup, coming on board as the 18th crew member
for Emirates Team New Zealand in their match-up against United
Internet Team Germany here Saturday.


And the woman who set the world record for sailing solo around
the globe two years ago said she had been fascinated to see the
challenges posed by the team event after watching the Kiwis
consolidate their third place ahead of what should be a routine
Sunday encounter against tailenders China Team.


"The start here is fairly hairy. Here, the start counts for
absolutely everything. I understand the nerves and the stress and
the worry at the start," MacArthur told reporters.


"But that's similar to long-distance racing because there's big
pressure on us as if we hit someone at the start, which is the
most likely time, then we're obviously not looking great for a
round-the-world trans-Atlantic trip!"


MacArthur paid tribute to the Kiwi squad who are the only one of
the 11 teams unbeaten in the second round robin series after
three losses in the opening round.


"I thought the atmosphere on board was fantastic. There was a lot
of laughter. I tried to watch everyone individually to see what
they all did to try to get a better understanding of it. It was
fascinating and it clearly worked very well today," the 30-year-
old said.


MacArthur, who said she would have to study form further before
committing herself on who might make the final, where the winner
goes forward to face America's Cup champions Alinghi, rejected
any idea that teamwork was an element which played a backseat
role regarding her own exploits.


"It's not about me at all," she insisted modestly.


"One thing I really felt at the beginning of the round-the-world
record, even though I was obviously solo on the boat, was that we
had our record," she said in reference to her back-up team.


"And when I crossed the line on my own it didn't feel like
anything. I just felt relief, no joy, no happiness.


"But when the team jumped on board, that's when we had our record
- we did it together."


Asked about her own immediate plans, she said she had several
projects in the offing, including launching a 60-foot boat for
her own sailing team and participating in various European
events.


"I am also doing some work in sustainability so it's fairly busy
at the moment," she noted.

