

Motorcycling supremo Valentino Rossi roared to pole position in
the Grand Prix of China here on Saturday with a record-setting
lap that stamped his authority on the fourth race of the season.


It was the seven-time world champion's 48th career pole as the
Italian master got his 2007 MotoGP championship bid back on track
after a disappointing performance two weeks ago in Turkey where
he finished 10th.


American John Hopkins on a Suzuki was second, just 0.891 seconds
off the pace, while Rossi team-mate Colin Edwards clinched third
on a Yamaha.


Casey Stoner, who is leading the rider standings after chalking
up two victories this season, was fourth and Shanghai defending
champion Dani Pedrosa, on a Honda, will line up fifth for
Sunday's race.


Under muggy and overcast weather with only a handful of
spectators at the Shanghai circuit, Rossi, whose nickname is "The
Doctor," put in a scorcher of a lap in the final minutes of
qualifying that pushed him to the edge of control.


"When I looked at time at the end of lap I was quite surprised,
but on the bike I was pushing at the maximum," said the
charismatic 28-year-old who is 10 points behind Stoner's 51.


"I was braking at the last centimetre of every corner, arrived
like maybe I won't be able to stop, but was able to stop every
time and I didn't make any mistakes."


Spanish sensation Pedrosa set the record lap here last year, but
that was before the engines were downsized from 990cc to 800cc.


A rapidly improving Hopkins showed that the blistering pace which
put him top of the table in practice on Friday was no fluke as he
aims for his first podium since joining the premier class in
2002.


Hopkins, 23, who enjoys Shanghai's long straights and sweeping
corners, has been in good form so far this season, finishing
fourth in Qatar and sixth in Istanbul.


"We've just been putting our work in over the weekend," the
Californian said after the qualifying session.


Also pleased with his performance on Saturday was Edwards, who
will be looking to redeem his luck after an unfortunate outing in
Turkey where he was taken out by another rider in a first lap
crash.


"We've been working our tails off. We'll see what happens
tomorrow but I've got a tyre I'm pretty happy with," said the
Texan.


Meanwhile, MotoGp's two Ducati teams continued to show great
straight-line speed with Stoner clocking a top speed of 328.4
kilometres an hour, second only to Brazilian Barros 330.7.


At 1,200 metres, Shanghai has the world's longest main stretch,
which early on had many riders commenting that Ducati and Stoner,
fifth here last year, could be hard to beat.

