

Marlon King scored his first goal since October to clinch
Watford's 2-0 win at Reading on Saturday.


King has only just returned from a serious knee injury and he was
quick to make up for lost time with a late header after Danny
Shittu had put Watford in front.


Adrian Boothroyd's side are already relegated back to the
Championship but they produced a gritty display to win just their
fifth league match this season.


Reading were left to rue poor finishing and an inspired display
by Watford keeper Ben Foster that left their UEFA Cup bid in the
balance.


Greg Halford nearly beat Foster with a dipping free-kick that
caught the keeper off balance early on, but he managed to push it
away for a corner.


Ivar Ingimarsson, named Reading's Player of the Year, should have
done better than fire wide as he met Seol Ki-Hyeon's delivery
from the resulting corner.


Watford, already relegated, had little to motivate them and it
needed a brave block from Foster to keep Reading out in the 17th
minute.


Steve Sidwell, restored to the starting line-up after being
dropped by Steve Coppell, threaded a pass through to Leroy Lita,
but Foster raced off his line to smother the danger.


Lita appealed for a penalty when he went to ground following a
challenge from debutant defender Cedric Avinel, but Dermot
Gallagher waved play-on.


Reading left-back Nicky Shorey has been tipped for an England
call-up after a fine season and he demonstrated his set-piece
ability with a 30-yard free-kick that was just off-target.


Dave Kitson had scored Reading's winner against Newcastle on
Monday and he was close to breaking the deadlock midway through
the half. He escaped the attentions of Shittu to meet Shorey's
cross with a header that cannoned off the bar.


Foster added to his tally of impressive stops when the on-loan
Manchester United keeper palmed out Lita's fierce drive early in
the second half.


Reading's Marcus Hahnemann was finally called into action to deny
Lee Williamson after the Watford winger had followed up Tommy
Smith's strike.


Michael Duberry's drive was parried by Foster as Reading pressed
forward, but Watford stunned the visitors in the 60th minute.


Williamson's free-kick was missed by Ingimarsson as he tried to
play offside and Shittu was able to take advantage of acres of
space to stroke home the opening goal.


Foster saved again from South Korean winger Seol and Watford made
the hosts pay with five minutes left.


In contrast to Foster, Hahnemann was not so secure and he let
Smith's cross slip through to King, who had the simple task of
heading into an empty net.

