

Kevin Kuranyi kept Schalke 04 on course for a first Bundesliga
crown since 1958 with the winning goal in a 1-0 victory over
Nuremberg on Saturday.


Stuttgart, however, are keeping close to the German league
leaders, a 2-0 victory over Mainz 05 leaving them just a point
adrift and well on course for automatic qualification for the
Champions League group stages.


Werder Bremen, knocked out in the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup on
Thursday, lie five points behind Schalke in third spot but have a
chance to reduce their deficit at Hertha Berlin on Sunday.


Bayern Munich meanwhile could only draw 1-1 at relegation-bond
Borussia Monchengladbach, that result leaving the reigning
champions in fourth spot, which would prove enough for UEFA Cup
football next season, 11 points behind Schalke.


Schalke, who have topped the table for the last 12 rounds of
matches, had to wait till the 64th minute to find the net through
Kuranyi as they look for their first title since 1958, though
they came close in both 2001 and 2005.


Kuranyi scored his 15th goal of the season, and 10th with his
head, in front of 50,000 fans at the Veltins Arena.


Kuranyi's diving header from a Gerald Asamoah cross must surely
be one of the most important goals of his career considering the
late stage of the title race.


Schalke's victory was even more important considering Stuttgart's
success thanks to goals by Fernando Meira and Fernando Hilbert.
It was Stuttgart's sixth successive victory although they are a
young side without a lot of experience.


Stuttgart's next match looks easier than Schalke's however.
Stuttgart travel to VfL Bochum, who ensured top flight survival
after winning 3-0 at Hamburg, though Schalke must face Borussia
Dortmund who are in resurgent mood following their 2-0 victory at
VfL Wolfsburg.


Bottom club Borussia Monchengladbach, who will definitely be
relegated, are expected to be joined in the second division by
Mainz 05 and Alemannia Aachen, who lost 4-0 at Eintracht
Frankfurt.

