

At least seven people were killed after a massive tornado
collapsed a hospital and wrecked up to 90 percent of a small town
in southern Kansas, local officials and US media said Saturday.


Seven were killed and around 60 people were injured, more than a
dozen of them seriously, after the storm made a direct hit on
Greensburg, Kansas, Sharon Watson, spokeswoman for Kansas
Emergency Management, told CNN.


According to reports some 30 people were pulled from the rubble
of Kiowa County Memorial Hospital in Greensburg as the storm
ripped homes off their foundations and even damaged below-ground
shelters.


The US National Weather Center meanwhile warned of more severe
weather in the US midwest Saturday, possibly spawning new severe
tornadoes especially in a large swath of Kansas and Nebraska to
the north.


The death toll rose from one to seven through the morning, six in
and around Greensburg and one in another county, according to
Watson, suggesting there may have been more than one twister in
the region late Friday night.


Reports said about 75 percent of local homes and buildings were
destroyed  in Greensburg, about 120 miles (200 kilometers) west
of Wichita, and communications in the area were severely
disrupted.


"The biggest problem were having right now is communicating,"
Watson said.


The town's 1,600 residents were evacuated and ordered not to come
back as emergency squads continued to comb the wreckage with
tractors and dogs to see if any survivors remained.


"The search and rescue continues. We want to make sure we can
find everybody," Greensburg City Administrator Steve Hewitt told
CNN.


Andrea Anglin of the American Red Cross told CNN that about 90
percent of the town was damaged.


Television images showed the town virtually levelled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


The massive wedge-shaped tornado, caught on film by self-styled
"storm chasers," struck at about 10:00 pm (0300 GMT Saturday).


People in the town said warning sirens went off about 20 minutes
beforehand, giving most a chance to get into storm cellars.


National weather reports put the tornado at between F3 (severe)
and F4 (devastating) on a scale of F0 to F5. An F4 storm carries
winds of 331-416 kilometers (207-260 miles) per hour.


"We are definitely thinking a mile wide" Darin Brunin, one of the
storm chasers told CNN about the extraordinary size of the storm.

