

A former Indonesian military chief Saturday denied that gross
violations of human rights were committed in East Timor ahead of
the tiny nation's vote for independence.


"The ad hoc human rights court has spent time and energy and it
was clearly proven that there were no gross violations of human
rights," General Wiranto said during a hearing in front of the
Indonesia-East Timor commission.


An Indonesian rights court set up to try military officers and
officials for atrocities in East Timor was widely condemned as a
sham for failing to jail any Indonesians.


Violence erupted in the half-island nation in 1999 around a UN-
administered referendum at which East Timor chose independence
following 24 years of occupation by neighbouring Indonesia.


Wiranto, who headed the Indonesian armed forces at the time, said
that rather than gross violations of human rights, "violence that
happened was remainders of horizontal conflicts, ordinary crimes
that were committed by both sides."


"It was proven that after their independence, East Timor was
still plagued with violence and the pattern was similar to 1999
that prompted them to invite the UN police (to help with
security)," he said.


Wiranto also questioned the United Nations' decision to give
Indonesia the responsibility for security during the vote.


"We were placed in a very difficult position, why were we given
the mandate to secure that extremely sensitive project?" he
asked, adding that the UN usually assigned peacekeeping missions
in such situations.


"However we didn't reject the duty and it was proven to be a
success," he said.


Answering questions from the commissioners, Wiranto rejected
"accusations that the military were in direct control of militias
that conducted" gross violations of human rights.


Militia gangs, which the UN says were recruited and directed by
Indonesia's military, killed about 1,400 people and destroyed
much of the infrastructure in the former Portuguese colony.


"They were not formed, nor funded, nor equipped by the military
and there was no structural control of these groups," he said.


The 10-member commission, setup in 2005, has been sitting in
towns and cities in Indonesia and East Timor since February to
hear from witnesses to the violence.


Modelled along lines similar to South Africa's post-apartheid
Truth and Reconciliation Commission, it aims at reconciliation
rather than recrimination.

