

Helicopters and police searched Saturday for a  Kenya Airways
airliner carrying 114 people that was feared to have crashed in
dense forest in southern Cameroon.


The operation was focusing on a region southwest of the capital
Yaounde, where witnesses said they had heard a loud explosion
during the night, Cameroon Radio and Television (CRTV) reported.


The almost new Boeing 737-800 with 105 passengers and nine crew
disappeared after taking off just after midnight from Douala
airport in western Cameroon in a fierce storm.


It had been on a stopover, going from the Ivory Coast capital
Abidjan to the Kenyan capital Nairobi.


Two Cameroonian military helicopters and police brigades were
searching the forest near the town of Lolodorf, some 100
kilometres (60 miles) southwest of Yaounde, radio reports said.


An administration source said nothing had yet been found.


"The searches are very difficult because they are taking place in
an area of very dense forest," he said.


In his last radio message to air traffic control, the pilot of
the missing plane "simply confirmed that the plane had taken
off," a source linked to the Agency for the Safety of Aerial
Navigation in Africa (ASECNA) said.


Shortly afterwards the aircraft disappeared from radar screens.


A satellite picked up a signal from the plane's distress beacon
at 2:00 am (0100 GMT), nearly two hours later, the source told
AFP.


Kenya Airways said those on board included 35 Cameroonians, 15
Indians, the nine Kenyan crew, seven South Africans, six each
from China, Ivory Coast and Nigeria, five Britons, three from
Niger and two each from the Central African Republic, the
Democratic Republic of Congo and Equatorial Guinea.


There was also one passenger from each of the United States,
Switzerland, Sweden, Mali, Togo, Ghana, the Comoros, Mauritius,
Senegal, the Congo Republic, Egypt, Tanzania and Burkina Faso.


Kenya Airways chief executive Titus Naikuni told a Nairobi news
conference that heavy rain had delayed the plane's departure in
Cameroon by one hour.


He did not speculate on the fate of the aircraft, which he stated
was only six months old, fully maintained and in the hands of
trained pilots.


But an official with the Kenyan Civil Aviation Authority, who
asked not to be named, told AFP bluntly: "The plane has crashed."


Flight KQ 507 had been scheduled to arrive at 6:15 am (0315 GMT)
in Nairobi, where most of the passengers were ticketed through to
connecting flights outside Kenya.


A knot of around 15 people who had been awaiting the plane in
Nairobi airport was guarded by several police officers.


"We have been told to sit and wait," said one relative of a
passenger on the plane. "A lot of people are crying, people are
asking what is happening."


Other concerned relatives gathered at a crisis centre in a
Nairobi hotel.


"They are not telling us anything ... I do not know whether my
daughter was supposed to fly back from west Africa today or
tomorrow," said the mother of an air stewardess, sobbing.


"It is a great tragedy for all of us in this country," Kalonzo
Musyoka, a former Kenyan foreign minister, said at the hotel.


The Kenyan government said it was "saddened" by the news.


"The government will do everything to unearth the cause of this
accident in order to prevent it from occurring again," spokesman
Alfred Mutua said.


Kenya's Transport Minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere said before
leaving for Douala that his government had approached the United
States for assistance in helping to track the plane's flight
path.


In January 2000 a Kenya Airways Airbus crashed into the sea after
taking off from Abidjan airport, killing 169 passengers and crew.


Air France-KLM owns 26 percent stake in Kenya Airways, which has
a reputation as a reliable African airline.

