

Carlos Tevez fired West Ham to the verge of a remarkable and
controversial 'great escape' from relegation by scoring twice and
making his side's third goal in a 3-1 win over Bolton on
Saturday.


The three points lifted the Hammers out of the relegation zone at
the expense of Wigan, who were beaten at Middlesbrough and now
look certain to take legal action over the Premier League's
failure to impose a points penalty on West Ham for the serious
rule breaches involved in the signing of Tevez and his Argentina
team-mate Javier Mascherano last August.


West Ham's player of the season produced a virtuoso performance,
scoring a fantastic freekick and a well-taken tap in, as well as
supplying a great cross for the Hammers' third.


Three goals in the first half an hour were enough to see off a
disappointing Bolton and Gary Speed's second-half consolation
goal will do little to ease new manager Sammy Lee's fears his
side may miss out on UEFA Cup football next season.


The Hammers' opener came after Bolton's Abdoulaye Meite brought
down Tevez just outside the area. The Argentina international
stepped up to take the freekick and curled the ball beyond Jussi
Jaaskelainen into the top left hand corner of the goal.


West Ham's second typified the renewed vigour apparent in the
side since Premiership survival became more than an impossible
dream.


Captain Nigel Reo-Coker lost the ball in midfield but battled
back to win it and release George McCartney down the left.
McCartney fed Luis Boa Morte, running down the inside left
channel between Campo and Meite, for the midfielder to slide the
ball into the feet of Tevez, who slipped the ball under
Jaaskelainen.


The third came with Bolton still reeling, Tevez's cross from the
left being met with a great right-foot volley by the unmarked
Noble at the back post.


Bolton's performance in the first half was tepid at best as their
moves were snuffed out by a resolute Hammers' defence. James
Collins was particularly hard to beat in the air, ensuring
Campo's lofted freekicks, Bolton's primary outlet, rarely reached
another Bolton player.


West Ham initially continued to make the running after the break
but Bolton finally began to press when Nicolas Anelka's shot from
the edge of the penalty area was tipped just wide by Robert
Green.


With just under quarter of an hour left, Speed capitalised on
poor defending to fire a left foot shot under the advancing Green
but Bolton never looked likely to stem the home supporters'
chants of "We are staying up."

