

Benni McCarthy's 22nd goal of his outstanding first season in the
Premiership helped Blackburn to a 2-0 win that could have sealed
the fate of Newcastle's under-pressure boss Glenn Roeder.


Jason Roberts made the points safe with quarter of an hour left
after the South African had struck midway through the first half
to set up a win that keeps alive Blackburn's chances of grabbing
a UEFA Cup spot on the final day of the season.


Newcastle will be without any form of European football next
season and this defeat ensures they will finish the campaign in
the bottom half of the table, a situation which seems destined to
result in Roeder being sacked to make for the newly-available Sam
Allardyce.


Even Michael Owen, starting his first match at St James' Park
since December 2005, could not inspire the Magpies to victory in
their final home match of the season.


Roeder did not have anything like a full-strength squad to choose
from but that is unlikely to assauge the anger of fans facing up
to the prospect that Roy Keane's newly-promoted Sunderland might
emerge as the dominant force in their region next season.


After a bright start, Newcastle found themselves behind when
McCarthy sprung their offside trap, judging his run perfectly to
meet Stephen Warnock's cross before confidently side-footing past
the hopelessly exposed Steve Harper, standing in for Shay Given
in the Magpies goal.


Owen looked the most likely Newcastle player to spark an
equaliser although the England forward was largely restricted to
some astute link-up play in non- threatening areas.


Blackburn's cutting edge was far sharper and it took a fine save
from Harper to deny Pedersen at the back post after David
Bentley's trickery had taken him beyond both Stephen Carr and
James Milner on the right flank.


Owen finally had a half-chance just before the break, when Brad
Friedel's punched clearance of a Nolberto Solano cross fell to
him. Owen got a clean enough contact on the ball but his shot
went high over the bar.


Jeered off at half-time, Newcastle were brighter on their return
to the pitch, with Owen close to flicking a Solano cross into the
path of Scott Parker.


The Magpies captain then wasted a good chance when he failed to
convert Milner's driven cross at the near post.


Newcastle came closest to an equaliser with just over 20 minutes
left, Owen rounding Friedel only to see his attempted finish from
an acute angle cleared off the line by Christopher Samba.


And as they pushed forward, the home side began to leave gaps at
the back, for which they were punished in the 73rd minute, when
Roberts headed in another fine Bentley cross.

