

The Asian Development Bank came under pressure Saturday not to
abandon the region's poorest as it considers a major overhaul in
response to warnings that it risks becoming irrelevant.


With Asia's rapid economic growth expected to wipe out widespread
absolute poverty in much of the region by 2020, the ADB wants to
carve out a new role to ensure it does not fall into obscurity.


ADB governors gathering for the public lender's annual meeting in
Kyoto, Japan agreed that an overhaul was needed, but there were
divisions on how to reform.


"The ADB must adjust the current model or else at the extreme it
will become obsolete in the new Asia," said Indonesia's ADB
governor, Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati.


"It is necessary for the ADB to be reborn as a new ADB," added
Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi.


But some member nations fear the region's poorest could be
overlooked if the ADB shifts too far towards other areas such as
road development and telecommunications.


Afghanistan and India led calls for the Asian Development Bank
not to forget its original objective.


"The ADB needs to continues, or enhance, its engagement with its
poorest members, the so-called fragile states," said
Afghanistan's ADB governor, Finance Minister Anwar Ul-haq Ahadi.


"Asia's growth has largely bypassed countries such as
Afghanistan. It is these countries, the fragile states, where the
ADB has the greatest impact," he said.


India's acting ADB governor, D. Subbarao, also urged the bank not
to forget its core goal.


"Helping reduce poverty must remain the fundamental objective,"
he said.


The ADB -- whose biggest shareholders are the United States and
Japan, followed by China and India -- is considering an ambitious
modernisation as many developing Asian nations move toward middle
income status.


An outside panel of experts appointed by the bank last month
urged the ADB to "radically transform itself," estimating that by
2020 widespread absolute poverty would have been beaten in most
Asian countries.


The ADB's primary role when it was established in 1966 was to
borrow money from the capital markets to lend to developing Asian
economies that might struggle to raise affordable funds on their
own.


But many Asian nations can now easily raise private funds
themselves and experts warn that the region is now awash with too
much capital, not too little.


"The ADB just cannot survive (as it is) in the future in a region
with a capital surplus," said the report's lead author, Supachai
Panitchpakdi, secretary general of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development.


The expert report said the development bank should increase its
focus on supporting more equitable and environmentally
sustainable growth, and take a more regional approach instead of
concentrating on individual countries.


But several nations expressed concern about the idea of an Asia-
wide focus.


"We have a concern that this regional cooperation, while
important, might dilute the ADB's focus of aid from helping
individual countries," said India's Subbarao.


"These problems of development have to be fought and solved at
the national level," added Bangladesh's governor, Mirza Azizul
Islam.

