

Alona Bondarenko claimed the biggest victory of her career on
Saturday when she upset fifth-ranked Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova
6-2 7-6 (7/4) to reach the final of the WTA tournament here.


The unseeded Ukrainian will now face top seed Justine Henin in
the final after the Belgian earned a thrilling 7-5, 2-6, 6-4 win
over fourth seeded Serb Jelena Jankovic 7-5 2-6 6-4.


Third seeded Kuznetsova looked flat, perhaps a consequence of her
draining three-set win over Venus Williams in the quarter-finals,
and made a succession of unforced errors as Bondarenko broke
twice to take the opening set.


Bondarenko kept her momentum going in the second set, breaking
for 1-0 and then surviving a break point when leading 3-2.


Her only moment of tension came as she failed to serve out the
match at 5-4, but she competed well in the tiebreak, taking
advantage of more Kuznetsova errors before firing a winning
forehand down the line.


"It wasn't my day. I think I was fighting against myself and it's
pretty hard to win matches like that," said Kuznetsova.


"But I think I almost turned it around in the second set. It was
always very close but I just couldn't get it. I tried but it
seemed to be so hard today."


Bondarenko, with just one career title in her portfolio at 22
years old, admitted that she had not really expected to win.


"I surprised myself," she said.


"But I just tried to play my game and concentrate on every point
and not think about the last point or her game, just about my
game."


Henin made a flying start and held a point for a 5-0 lead before
Jankovic found her feet and began to offer a challenge.


As Henin's aggression level slipped a little, Jankovic began to
dictate more of the rallies and often forced the Belgian into
errors as she levelled at 4-4.


After breaking in the final game of the first set Henin held two
points to break for 2-0 in the second, but Jankovic held off the
threat and instead broke Henin to lead 2-1.


A further break at 4-2 left her serving for the set, and took the
match into a tense decider.


Henin once more took the upper hand, breaking to lead 3-1, but
Jankovic forced a forehand error from Henin to break break back
in the next game.


With the match evenly balanced, Henin failed to win a break point
at 4-3, but Jankovic then sent a forehand long on break point at
5-4 to concede the two hour 35-minute battle.


"I started the match pretty well and was very aggressive and she
did a couple of mistakes, but tactically it was pretty perfect
what I was doing at that time," said Henin. "I lost my intensity
but finally I could finish the first set, not the way I wanted
but I won it.


"I didn't play well at all in the second set, no more intensity
in my game, and then in the third set it was a good fight.


"I knew it was going to be tough. She improved a lot in the last
couple of months and she is one of the players in the best shape
from the beginning of the year so... It's been a good one. It's
good to win this kind of match. I know I had some ups and downs
and I will have to work on it."


Despite her defeat, Jankovic will achieve a career-high ranking
of six on Monday.


"I don't know how many times I have lost against her and it's
always been in the third set very tough," said Jankovic.


"There were just a few points deciding the winner. She's a lot
more experienced than me and I think that's the difference. She
plays it more safe. Anyway it was a good match until the end. I
started a little bit bad but other than that it was a good
match."

