

A group of Serbian nationalists formed Saturday a special unit of
volunteers ready to take up arms if the breakaway southern
province of Kosovo gains independence.


"We are saying to Kosovo Serbs that there are people ready to
defend them if the Serbian state ends up forgetting them,"
Veterans' Movement president Zeljko Vasiljevic told a launch
ceremony in the historic city of Krusevac.


"We are not a paramilitary unit, we will be ready if the army or
the police need us. If Kosovo obtains any form of independence at
all, we are ready to fight," said Vasiljevic, a member of
parliament for the party of late former Serbian leader Slobodan
Milosevic.


The launch of the "Guard of Prince Lazar", named after a 14th
century Serb ruler, drew a crowd of some 200 people at a church
in the centre of Krusevac, the city where Lazar lost his empire
to the Turks in 1389.


A group of 30 people wearing T-shirts with the image of a howling
wolf, the logo of the Special Operations Unit (JSO) -- an elite
police force terminated by the Serbian government -- were
prevented from attending and arrested.


The JSO, whose members were known as the "Red Berets", was
disbanded after two members were implicated over the 2003
assassination of the then Serbian prime minister Zoran Djindjic.


Kosovo has been under United Nations administration since
mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped to drive out Serbian forces
under Milosevic who were waging a brutal crackdown against ethnic
Albanians.


In the coming weeks, the UN Security Council is to decide on a
proposal for Kosovo's internationally supervised independence.


European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana said Saturday
that the Security Council should have adopted a resolution
defining the status of the Serbian province in the next month.


"I hope that we have a new UN Security Council resolution before
the G8 summit" in Germany running June 6-8, Solana said Saturday
in an interview with Croatian daily Jutarnji List.


The independence plans have the backing of the EU, the United
States and the leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around
90 percent of Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


However most Serbs, who see the province as Serbia historic
heartland, strongly oppose the move.


Russia has supported Serbia's opposition to the plan, rejecting
it as a violation of the country's territorial integrity.


There are fears that if Moscow wields its veto in the Security
Council to block the creation of an independent Kosovo, the
province's leaders will unilaterally declare independence.

