

The leader of Al-Qaeda's Iraq branch, who was reportedly killed
in insurgent infighting this week, surfaced in a purported new
voice recording posted on an Islamist website on Saturday.


The voice denied the reported internal clashes among Sunni Arab
militants in which Abu Ayyub al-Masri was said to have died.


"What you hear in the news on satellite channels about fighting
between us and Jihadist groups, or with our blessed (Sunni Arab)
tribes is just lies and fabrication," the voice said.


"It is a desperate attempt to divide the Jihadist ranks," it
added.


Iraqi authorities said on Tuesday that they were investigating
reports that Masri, known to Islamists as Abu Hamza al-Muhajer,
had died in internal clashes among insurgent groups.


The US military said it could not confirm the death of the Al-
Qaeda commander, whose demise has been reported more than once in
the past, and Iraqi officials acknowledged that they had not laid
hands on Masri's corpse.


The Islamic State of Iraq -- an Al-Qaeda-led coalition of Sunni
insurgent groups -- insisted Masri was still alive in an Internet
statement posted on Tuesday and also denied the infighting.


But in a challenge to Al-Qaeda, three rival Sunni Islamist
insurgent groups announced that they were joining forces in a
rival front to the Islamic State.


"In order to confront local, regional, and international
challenges, an agreement has been concluded between three groups,
the Islamic Army in Iraq, the Army of the Mujahedeen, and the
Ansar al-Sunna to form a united front," the new group said in an
Internet statement.


Muhajer slammed the Iraqi Islamic Party for dealing with the
government of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and urged the
militant factions which had formed the rival front not to
confront Al-Qaeda.


"On the same day on which two factions that belong to the (Sunni)
Islamic Party announced their unification, the leaders of the
Islamic Party announced war on ... the Mujahedeen," he said.


"We say to you ... (despite our feeling of) pain and sorrow,
that, by Allah, we would not like you to shed our blood, or that
we would shed a drop of your blood, as long as you do not enroll
among the soldiers of the Maliki's government," he added.


"Our brothers, we want nothing from you. Just leave us (to fight)
with the enemy," he said.


Many experts believe the announcement of a new alliance between
Ansar al-Sunna and the Islamic Army points to a deepening rivalry
among Islamists within the Sunni insurgency and a serious
challenge to Al-Qaeda's Iraqi franchise.

