

Iraqi lawmakers said Saturday that they might yet cut short their
planned summer recess in order to pass key laws, but warned the
United States not to push them to do so.


Some members of parliament said privately that pressure from
Washington might even persuade some anti-American parties to
insist on taking the two-month break as planned, as a gesture of
defiance.


"This is unnecessary interference," said Kurdish legislator
Mahmud Othman. "Parliament has a sense of responsibility. If they
find there is a need to legislate laws urgently they will not go
on leave.


"This American interference is strange and could have negative
results."


Some US politicians have angrily insisted that the Iraqi
parliament cancel a recess due in August and September in order
to have more time to pass bills designed to aid war-torn Iraq's
quest for national reconciliation.


The Iraqi assembly is due to debate a law to rehabilitate former
members of ousted dictator Saddam Hussein's ruling Baath Party
and allow them to return to public life, and has a draft of a
bill on sharing national oil revenues.


US policy-makers see these and other reforms as vital in
convincing minority factions opposed to Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki's government to get behind moves to defeat a violent
insurgency and quell sectarian fighting.


At the White House on Friday, national security spokesman Gordon
Johndroe noted that the US Ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, had
raised Washington's objection to a two-month recess with Maliki.


"US officials, including Ambassador Crocker, have said this may
send the wrong signal not only to the international community but
to the Iraqi people," he told reporters.


No decision on the recess has been taken, Iraqi lawmakers said,
but they held out the possibility of extending the legislative
session if voices in Washington stopped pushing for it.


"We asked for the holiday to be cancelled before the Americans
spoke, to pass an abundance of laws. We must finish them by the
end of the year," said Nassar al- Rubaie, a member of radical
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's bloc.


First deputy speaker Khalid al-Attiya, a member of the Supreme
Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, said: "The summer
holiday is an internal affair. The council is the body to decide
whether to go on leave or not.


"The internal rules stipulate a holiday, but there are a host of
laws that have to be finished during this legislative term," he
added.


"If we do not finish them in time, the council may shorten or
cancel the holiday as it did in the winter term when the budget
was in discussion and had to be finalised. The council cut the
holiday from one month from two."


Wael Abdul-Latif a judge and lawmaker from the secular Iraqi List
party, said: "If there are laws important for the country for us
to debate we may not enjoy a holiday.


"The people elected us to work 24 hours per day. It is improper
that America tells us to work for the interests of our country.
We must do so anyway."


There has been pressure from politicians in Washington to tie
future military and financial assistance to Iraq to its
government meeting certain political "benchmarks" to prove that
it is committed to finding peace.

