

Leaders of the minority partner in Irish Prime Minister Bertie
Ahern's coalition government were to meet Saturday to consider
new information about his financial affairs row, less than three
weeks before elections, a party spokesman said.


The Progressive Democrats' spokesman refused to say if the
situation cast doubt on whether the party would remain in the
Ahern-led coalition in the run-up to the May 24 general election.


A complex row surrounding payments to Ahern by businessmen when
he was finance minister in the early 1990s has dogged the
premier's campaign since he called the election last Sunday.


Ahern has denied any wrongdoing and has said he will deal with
the issues at a judicial tribunal investigating payments to
politicians, which was suspended last week after Ahern called the
election.


His centrist Fianna Fail party claims that "transcripts and
documents" have been "unlawfully leaked to cause mayhem and
confusion" during the election.


There had been speculation that the PD will decide to pull out of
the government but the spokesman said the media was "getting
ahead of itself."


"We are simply saying they (the leadership) are considering the
situation," he added.


"As I understand there is new information (about Ahern's
finances) but I am not saying anything about it."


The PD spokesman also declined to say when and where the party
leaders were meeting on Saturday.


The party has eight lawmakers in the 166-member Dail, the lower
house of the Irish parliament.


The controversy about Ahern's finances first arose last October
when PD leader Michael McDowell, who is also Ahern's deputy,
decided to stay in the coalition after consultations with Ahern
about the payments.


"We remained in government on the basis that all information had
been disclosed by the Taoiseach (prime minister) to the Tanaiste
(McDowell). There are suggestions now that that's not the case,"
PD Senator Colm O'Gorman told RTE state radio.


"Trust is central to any relationship in government, any
relationship between coalition partners.


"So obviously if that wasn't the case, if the Taoiseach hadn't
been fully frank in his conversations with the Tanaiste, that's a
very serious issue indeed," O'Gorman said.


Ahern is seeking a record third term for his Fianna Fail party,
which has been in coalition with the PD for two successive five-
year terms.


The first opinion poll of the campaign on Saturday indicated that
Ahern's coalition and an opposition centre-left partnership of
Fine Gael and the Labour Party are neck-and-neck with each having
39 percent support.

