

China's Liang Wenchong stayed on track to lift his second title
of the season by retaining a one-shot lead after the third round
of the GS Caltex Maekyung Open on Saturday.


The 28-year-old Liang, who has led since the opening day at Nam
Seoul Country Club, carded a brilliant five-under-par 67 for a
three-day score of 14-under-par 202 in the US$600,000 Asian Tour
event.


Hot on Liang's heels is talented Korean youngster Kim Kyung-Tae,
who made it a two-horse race for the Maekyung title after
matching Liang's round with a blistering back nine performance.


Korean-born Australian Lee Won-Joon, playing in his rookie season
on the Asian Tour, carded the day's joint best round of 66 for
third place, thanks to six birdies. However, the 21-year-old is
seven shots behind leader Liang.


A further three strokes back in fourth place was American Anthony
Kang, who carded a 68 for a 212 total.


Victory for Liang will see him top the Asian Tour's UBS Order of
Merit.


"I played very nicely again today. I drove the ball well and the
irons were a lot better than yesterday. It still wasn't easy as
it's a tough course, so I'm happy to shoot a 67.


"It's not over yet. Kim is strong player. He played well today
and putted great," said Liang, who is currently second on the UBS
Order of Merit thanks to his win in the Clariden Leu Singapore
Masters and four other top-10s.


The talented Liang turned in 33 to seize the early initiative
from playing partner Kim and was four-under for the day through
10 holes before dropping his first shot of the round at the 14th.


But the Zhongshan-based golfer bounced straight back with
successive birdies on the 15th and 16th holes to give himself a
slender lead over 20-year-old Kim.


The in-form Kim, who turned professional after winning two gold
medals in the Asian Games in Doha last December, produced a
wonderful back nine performance that thrilled the Nam Seoul
galleries.


After negotiating the outward nine in one under, the prodigious
talent ensured he stayed within striking range of Liang with
birdies on the 11th, 12th, 16th and 17th.


"I was hoping for a top 10 but now, I have a chance to win. It is
a huge bonus to be in contention and I'm enjoying every moment of
it," said Kim.


"I enjoyed playing with Liang. I was impressed with his game and
demeanour. I am not going to change my game plan, I'll have to
remain aggressive but you have to leave your approach shots on
the right spots on the greens."


Lee, 21, hit the joint low round of the day to give himself a
shot at earning his biggest cheque of his career. "After a 76 on
Thursday, I had to grind it out. I worked it out on the range
after the first day and it's gotten a lot better since then,"
said Lee, who qualified for his maiden British Open through
qualifying in Singapore last month.


Last year's champion Suk Jong-yul of Korea shot a 72 for a 215
total, good for tied 18th place in what is the 13th leg of this
season's Asian Tour Schedule.

