

The row between Estonia and Russia, sparked by the removal of a
Soviet war memorial from Tallinn city centre, has opened the old
Estonian wounds of integration and Soviet occupation.


Critics of the removal of the Bronze Soldier say Prime Minister
Andrus Ansip ignored the views of Estonia's Russian community,
which makes up half the population of Tallinn and around one-
third of the population of Estonia.


Moscow, meanwhile, has seized on the anger sparked by the
monument's removal to stoke anti-Estonian feelings, using old and
new media to paint the Baltic state as a fascist nation that
tramples on human rights.


"The feeling of 'us' that we managed to create in the 16 years
since independence is under threat now because of the
disrespecftul show of force by the government in removing the
monument," said Edgar Savisaar, mayor of Tallinn and leader of
the opposition Centre Party.


Two-thirds of Estonia's population of 1.34 million are ethnic
Estonians. To them, the Bronze Soldier was a reminder of 50 years
of Soviet occupation, during which 100,000 Estonians were
deported or murdered, and equal numbers of Russians shipped in.


Just under 30 percent of the population, or 390,000 people, are
Russian. Less than half have Estonian citizenship; 92,000 are
citizens of the Russian Federation, and 120,000 hold so-called
aliens' passports and an Estonian residence permit.


Since Estonia regained independence from the Soviet Union in
1991, it has repeatedly come under fire from Moscow for violating
the rights of its Russian minority.


Estonian language tests for anyone wishing to take Estonian
citizenship have been a particular issue for Moscow and Russian
speakers in the country.


Ansip said the statue was moved because it was dividing Estonian
society.


"If a monument located in one of the busiest locations in the
city centre symbolised, for some of us, occupants and deporters;
for others the memory of the dead; and for some people, nostalgia
for a totalitarian state; then it really could not be a monument
unifying our society," he said in a speech to parliament.


But Russians have decried the way the statue was removed.


"The monument is sacred to us, it embodies all those we lost in
the war," said Pavel Ivanov, editor of one of Estonia's Russian-
language weeklies MK-Estoniya.


"It was taken down in a cynical way, in the dead of night. It's
no wonder such behaviour offends and hurts us Russians."


After two nights of rioting over the statue, which saw a young
Russian killed and nearly 1,000 people arrested, most of them
Russians, Moscow sent a delegation of lawmakers to assess the
situation on the ground in Estonia.


In Moscow, meanwhile, the Estonian embassy was surrounded by pro-
Kremlin activists, who tried to attack the ambassador last week.


European lawmaker Danute Budreikaite of Estonia's fellow Baltic
state, Lithuania, slammed Moscow for "trying to keep house in
Estonia as if it were home."


Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet said in an article published
in Sweden's Svenska Dagbladet: "Russia is acting again as if
Boris Yeltsin had not dissolved the Soviet Union in 1991" and was
having difficulty accepting the independence of its "former
colonies."


The Russian delegation made scathing accusations of rights abuses
and disrespect for the dead in Estonia -- all picked up by the
media and broadcast in Russia and by Estonia's Russian-language
media.


Estonia's prime minister also claimed that attacks against
government websites were launched from computers in the office of
Russian President Vladimir Putin.


EU member states, NATO and the United States were all critical of
Moscow's reaction. US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called
the cyber-attacks "unacceptable pressure on an independent
country," according to the Estonian presidency.


But Ivar Tallo, head of Estonia's e-governance Academy, said the
cyber-attackers had chosen the wrong target.


"The 'e' in Estonia is the trademark of our success. These cyber-
attacks were quite childish and didn't really jam anything,"
Tallo told AFP.


"But they were certainly part of the battle, and they mark a new
trend. They are something we have to think seriously about,
especially since some of them originated in the Russian
administration," Tallo told AFP.

