

At least nine people were killed by the massive tornado that
wrecked a small town in Kansas collapsing a hospital and reducing
most homes to piles of broken timber, local officials said
Saturday.


At least six people were killed in Greensburg, Kansas, after the
storm made a direct hit on the small western prairie town late
Friday, said City Administrator Steve Hewitt.


Some 30 people were pulled from the rubble of Kiowa County
Memorial Hospital in Greensburg as the storm ripped homes off
their foundations and even damaged below-ground shelters,
according to reports.


Sharon Watson, spokeswoman for Kansas Emergency Management, told
CNN a seventh person was killed in an adjacent county. A local
newspaper, The Witchita Eagle, later reported two more deaths in
Kiowa County where Greensburg is located.


Scores were reported injured and dozens hospitalized.


President George W. Bush was briefed on the situation, while the
Federal Emergency Management Agency chief, David Paulison, spoke
with Kansas Governor Kathleen Sebelius, an administration
official said.


"The president's thoughts and prayers are with the people of
Greensburg and all those who suffered loss and injury," David
Almacy, a White House spokesman, said in a statement.


The US National Weather Center, meanwhile, warned of more severe
weather in the central region Saturday, and two new tornadoes
were reported in Nebraska to the north.


A tornado warning was issued for a huge swath of land touching
seven states from northern Texas to South Dakota, the core of the
country's "Tornado Alley."


The National Weather Service warned of "an extremely dangerous
and life- threatening situation" for central Nebraska due to the
threat of severe tornadoes.


Hewitt said 90 percent of local homes and buildings were
destroyed in Greensburg, about 120 miles (200 kilometers) west of
Wichita, and communications in the area were severely disrupted.


"This is a huge catastrophe for this small town. My home's gone,
my staff's homes are gone," he said in a press conference.


The town's 1,400 residents were evacuated and ordered not to come
back as emergency squads continued to comb the wreckage with
tractors and dogs to see if any survivors remained.


"The search and rescue continues. We want to make sure we can
find everybody," Hewitt said.


Water, electric and gas utilities were all shut off and a curfew
was planned from 8:00 pm to 8:00 am on Sunday.


Television images showed the town virtually levelled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


Emergency workers said they were rushing to re-establish
communications facilities after the storm wiped out both land
line and cellphone services.


The massive wedge-shaped tornado, caught on film by self-styled
"storm chasers," struck at about 10:00 pm (0300 GMT Saturday).
One of the storm chasers, Darin Brunin, told CNN the storm was "a
mile (1.6 kilometer) wide."


People in the town said warning sirens went off about 20 minutes
beforehand, giving most a chance to get into storm cellars.


National weather reports put the tornado at between F3 (severe)
and F4 (devastating) on a scale of F0 to F5. An F4 storm carries
winds of 331-416 kilometers (207-260 miles) per hour.

