

Queen Elizabeth II fulfilled her life-long dream of attending
America's premier horse race on Saturday as she joined a star-
filled crowd at the Kentucky Derby.


Wearing a lime-green coat with a matching silk dress of a small
floral print and a lime-green hat with a fuchsia trim, the queen
and her husband Prince Philip arrived about two hours before the
133rd running of the Kentucky Derby, the first leg of
thoroughbred racing's Triple Crown.


The royal couple was accompanied by the former US ambassador to
London, William Farish, to a private suite where they looked at
the grounds of the legendary Churchill Downs racetrack before the
marquee 10th race, which carried a two million dollar purse.


The stands were already filled, race fans sipped their
traditional bourbon, sugar, ice and mint juleps and made their
bets on early races Saturday afternoon ahead of the British
sovereign's arrival.


Sports and film stars were among the crowd, including basketball
legend Michael Jordan, wearing a white suit, and former Playboy
Playmate Jenny McCarthy, in an extravagant hat.


The queen's attendance was a proud first for the track, located
outside of Louisville.


"Queen Elizabeth is certainly the most prestigious guest we've
entertained in the modern-day history of the Kentucky Derby,"
track president Steve Sexton said.


Dressed as usual to the nines for the event, the crowd included a
couple dressed as Kentucky's legendary Colonel Harlan Sanders --
of Kentucky Fried Chicken fame -- and Elizabeth herself, in a
sparkling crown.


The real queen, 81, and husband Prince Philip, 85, spent the
night at the Land's End Farm in Kentucky's bluegrass horse-
raising region near Lexington, hosted by a Farish.


She beamed warmly as thoroughbred breeder Farish greeted her
Friday night at Lexington's airport, with his wife Sarah kissing
her majesty on both cheeks.


The day before Elizabeth and Philip toured Jamestown, Virginia,
celebrating its 400th anniversary as the first permanent English
settlement in the Americas, where she lauded the "deep and
enduring" ties that bind Britain and the United States.


"I, like so many others, could not but be moved by the poignancy
of walking around the archaeological site where the original fort
once stood and of imagining something of the experience of those
early settlers when they first made landfall on the James River,"
Elizabeth said.


They later visited the College of William and Mary in
Williamsburg, the second- oldest US university founded by royal
charter in 1693.


Prince Philip also made a trip to nearby Norfolk to see the
battleship USS Wisconsin, which saw action in the first Gulf War.


At the Louisville race course, workers warmed up the skills
learned in special royal etiquette lessons while chefs began
preparing a meal of special native Kentucky ingredients.


The queen arrived well into the 12-race program for a tour of the
Churchill Downs Derby museum before settling in for the two
minutes of sheer excitement of the marquee 10th race, which
carries a two million dollar purse.


After the race, she will spend the rest of the weekend on a
private visit with the Farish family, before heading to
Washington for a formal state dinner at the White House with
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush.


It will be the first white-tie event at the White House during
Bush's six years as president.


Monday morning they will be greeted by hundreds of members of the
cabinet and Congress at a ceremony on the White House lawn, where
there will be a 21-gun salute.


The next day the queen and Laura Bush will visit the Children's
National Medical Center in Washington.

