

The junior partner in Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern's
coalition government met Saturday to consider "highly
significant" new information in a row about the premier's
finances.


The move by the right-of-centre Progressive Democrats comes less
than three weeks before a May 24 general election.


Asked about media rumours that the PD was considering pulling out
of the government, Ahern said: "I have no idea.


"They are an independent party. It is a matter for them. They
haven't ask me any further questions than the ones they did
before and I answered all of those and I'll answer any other ones
as well."


PD leader Michael McDowell, who is Tanaiste (deputy prime
minister) and justice minister, told state broadcaster RTE that
"serious issues were involved."


A PD statement said its leadership had met for three hours to
evaluate "new information" relating to Ahern's financial affairs.


"It was agreed that the new information is highly significant.
The Progressive Democrats leadership has now decided to enter
into a wider consultation with members of its parliamentary
party," the statement said.


A complex row surrounding payments to Ahern by businessmen in the
early 1990s and his purchase of a house in 1997 when he was
finance minister has dogged the premier's campaign since he
called the election last Sunday.


Ahern has denied any wrongdoing and has said he will deal with
the issues at a judicial tribunal -- called the Mahon Tribunal --
investigating payments to politicians, which was suspended last
week after Ahern called the election.


Leaks of allegations surrounding the payments have resulted in
the controversy dogging Ahern on the campaign trail and the issue
dominated a press conference to launch his centrist Fianna Fail
party's manifesto.


A Fianna Fail statement to The Irish Times newspaper on Friday
said Ahern's full position was already known to the tribunal and
it would not be dealt with by his reacting on a "drip-by-drip
basis to drip-by-drip disclosures."


The party said tribunal "transcripts and documents" had been
"unlawfully leaked to cause mayhem and confusion" in the course
of the election.


PD Senator Colm O'Gorman said his party had remained in
government "on the basis that all information had been disclosed
by the taoiseach (prime minister) to the tanaiste. There are
suggestions now that that's not the case.


"Trust is central to any relationship in government, any
relationship between coalition partners.


"So obviously if that wasn't the case, if the taoiseach hadn't
been fully frank in his conversations with the tanaiste, that's a
very serious issue indeed," O'Gorman told RTE.


The party has eight lawmakers in the 166-member Dail, the lower
house of the Irish parliament.


The Fianna Fail-PD alliance has governed for two five-year terms
since 1997. They were the first coalition in Irish history to be
re-elected for a second term.

