

Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson has called on his old
rival Arsene Wenger to hand him the Premiership title.


Ferguson's league leaders will be crowned champions for the first
time since 2003 if Chelsea fail to win at Arsenal on Sunday.


United moved eight points clear of second-placed Chelsea with a
1-0 win at Manchester City on Saturday and now Gunners boss
Wenger, who has been involved in a series of spats with Ferguson,
is in a position to send the title to Old Trafford.


Ferguson, who insists he would rather play golf than watch the
Emirates Stadium clash, knows that even if Chelsea do win on
Sunday, United can clinch the league with a draw at Stamford
Bridge on Wednesday - a prospect he would relish.


"We've got a great chance now obviously and I'm hopeful Arsenal
will do us a favour," he said. "A draw would be fine. Hopefully
we can get the result we want.


"I won't watch the match. I was supposed to go to Spain but that
might be cancelled so if it's a good day I'll go for a game of
golf.


"But if we have to go to Chelsea and do it, I will look forward
to it."


Ferguson saluted his players' courage as they produced the
perfect response to their Champions League exit against AC Milan
in midweek.


"What you saw today was human courage," he said. "Coming back
from Wednesday night and having to get through the travel and
lack of rest, the players have shown fantastic courage.


"City never actually tried to beat us. They were happy at 1-0,
but towards the end they got the penalty kick. We got through it.
It wasn't a great performance but derby games are like that."


It was Cristiano Ronaldo's first half penalty that won the clash
against their bitter local rivals.


Ronaldo had been the victim of a nasty stamp from Michael Ball
early in the match and Ferguson said: "He's had a fantastic
season but he took a really bad challenge early in the game.


"It's very difficult to handle a derby and it got a bit out of
control."


City manager Stuart Pearce took comfort from the way his side
battled against the champions-elect.


They could have snatched a point but Darius Vassell's late
penalty was saved by Edwin van der Sar and Pearce said: "We
stayed in this game all the way against a team who, after this
result, are likely to be champions of England.


"We were in it right until the last minute, but we missed a
penalty and that cost us dearly."

