

Al-Qaeda number two Ayman al-Zawahiri has poured scorn on a US
congressional bill tying war funding to a pullout from Iraq,
saying it reflected US failure, in a video posted on the Internet
Saturday.


"This bill reflects American failure and frustration," Zawahiri
said in the video interview produced by As-Sahab, a media outfit
that specialises in Al- Qaeda online material.


A link to the video, which features English subtitles, was
provided to AFP by the Washington-based Site Institute.


Zawahiri said the bill would deprive insurgents of "the
opportunity to destroy the American forces which we have caught
in a historic trap."


He went on to "ask Allah that they only get out of it (Iraq)
after losing two hundred to three hundred thousand killed, in
order that we give the spillers of blood in Washington and Europe
an unforgettable lesson."


US President George W. Bush on Tuesday vetoed the bill passed by
Congress a few days earlier. The bill would allocate 124 billion
dollars in emergency funding for US troops in Iraq and
Afghanistan, but contained a call for US combat troops to start
coming home from Iraq by October 1 and for most of them to be
withdrawn by March 2008.


The turbaned Zawahiri, right-hand man of Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden, appeared in the video with book shelves behind him.


He also derided Bush's contention that a US-led security
crackdown had reduced sectarian violence in Iraq.


"I congratulate him (Bush) on the success of his security plan,
and I invite him on the occasion for a glass of juice, but in the
cafeteria of the Iraqi parliament in the middle of the Green
Zone," the fugitive Zawahiri said.


He was alluding to an April 12 suicide bombing in the canteen of
the Iraqi parliament, which killed one MP, in the most
spectacular breach of the multiple layers of security in the
Baghdad Green Zone that houses the government, the US mission and
other foreign embassies, since the US-led invasion four years
ago.


The bombing, claimed by an Al-Qaeda-led coalition in an Internet
statement, also defied the security crackdown that has put tens
of thousands of US and Iraqi troops on the streets.


Zawahiri frequently emerges in video or audio tapes to speak for
the Al-Qaeda network and had last been heard of in an audio
recording in March.

