

Turkey's crisis has been framed as a religious battle between two
camps, one secularist and the other Islamist, but analysts
insisted Saturday it was purely a political struggle.


"Religion is only a pretext, a tool for political competition
between the government and a part of the opposition," said
Alexandre Toumarkine, a researcher at the French Institute of
Anatolian Studies in Istanbul.


"It is more about electoral and institutional issues than about
the place of Islam in society.


"People are no longer wondering if society is becoming more
Islamic or not. The conflict now centres on the control of
certain institutions. We are talking about political
relationships," he said.


The origin of the crisis was the army's refusal, in a statement
posted on the General Staff web site on April 27, to accept that
a candidate from the Islamist-rooted ruling party could become
president.


The country's Constitutional Court decided four days later to
annul the first- round parliamentary vote on the new president
amid widespread secular opposition to Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul, the sole candidate.


"It is actually a political struggle, a struggle for the share of
economic power," said Ismet Berkan, editor of the Radikal daily,
expressing a view common among other Turkish editorials.


"The side (the secularists) that feels victimised believes it is
backed in the towns, and the country at large, and views the
other camp (the Islamists) as newcomers who are moving in on
their patch," he said.


For Toumarkine, the crisis highlights the divide between
different strata in Turkish society, where broadly speaking it is
the conservative-minded and privileged Turks that have been
defending the secular status quo.


"Demonstrators who go out on the streets to defend secularism do
not belong to the same social class as those who are staying
silent and waiting for the elections to get their revenge," he
said.


More than one million people rallied in Istanbul last weekend to
defend secularism and express their anger at the "sharia" that
the government is accused of wanting to enforce in due course.


There was a similar demonstration in Ankara on April 14 and
smaller protests across the country cropped up on Saturday.


The fear of the army and the secular ruling elite is thus not so
much that society is undergoing an "Islamisation", but that they
will lose control of the reins of power: the ministries, the
judicial system, the bureaucratic apparatus.


Besides, this same army that now leaps in to defend secularism,
did not hesitate in the 1980s to replace governments, brandish
the Koran and build mosques. It is true that at that time, the
main enemy was communism.


Indeed, there is little real evidence of this much-feared
"Islamisation" since the arrival in power in 2002 of the
governing Justice and Development party.


It remains no more than a suspicion and the passing of certain
Islamic-friendly laws appears to be more sanctimonious than part
of some grand fundamentalist design.


A rare survey on the wearing of headscarves, carried out in
November by the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation,
found that the number of Turks wearing it had actually dropped
from 15.7 percent in 1999 to 11.4 percent.


And Turkey has been largely spared, with the exception of
murderous attacks in Istanbul in 2003, major displays of Islamic
extremism.


The majority Sunni nation has many religious strands including
nine or 10 million Alevis -- 15 percent of the population -- who
are broadly descended from the Shia faith and practice a very
modern version of Islam.

