

Aston Villa easily defeated Sheffield United 3-0 on Saturday to
leave the visitors precariously poised just above the Premiership
relegation zone.


Goals from Gabriel Agbonlahor, Ashley Young and Patrick Berger
gave Villa a convincing victory at Villa Park to leave the Blades
fifth from bottom.


The visitors will nervously be looking over their shoulders as
they lie just three points above the relegation places going into
the final game of the season against fellow strugglers Wigan next
Sunday.


Neil Warnock's men came into the game buoyed by earlier results
which meant victory would guarantee Premiership survival.


However it was the home team who started the brighter and nearly
scored after just 35 seconds through striker John Carew.


The former Valencia man took possession of the ball on the right-
wing before driving into the penalty area and unleashing a shot
which Chris Morgan deflected wide.


Agbonlahor came close for O'Neill's men in the sixth minute as he
latched on to a long ball and raced into a good shooting postion
but screwed his shot narrowly wide.


The visitor's showed little attacking intent and a weak header
over the cross- bar from captain Phil Jagielka from a Keith
Gillespie free-kick was their best effort.


Unsurprisingly it was Villa who took the lead in with a fantastic
goal from the livewire Agbonlahor in the 25th minute.


Dutch defender Wilfred Bouma threw to the striker who turned his
marker and accelerated into the box before cracking an
unstoppable shot into the top-right hand corner of the goal for
his tenth league goal of the season.


The home team continued to pour forward and came close to another
goal in the 33rd minute as two efforts in quick succession were
blocked and Craig Gardner blazed the loose ball over the bar.


Young finally grabbed the second in the 42nd minute, scoring his
second league goal since his January transfer window signing from
Watford.


The 9.65million pounds midfielder received possession from Carew
before beating defender Chris Armstrong and drilling a finish
through the legs of Paddy Kenny in the United goal.


The second half started in the same fashion as the home team
continued to dominate.


Former Liverpool forward Berger claimed the hosts' third goal
shortly before the hour-mark following slick interplay with
Carew.


The Czech international controlled the ball on the corner of the
penalty area before executing a sharp one-two with the Norwegian
and stroking the ball past Kenny's left hand.


The visitors nearly responded immediately but Jamaica striker
Luton Shelton screwed the ball wide of the post when in a great
position.


The Blades' frustration was epitomised by a defensive mix-up
between Kenny and Matthew Kilgallon which resulted in the Ireland
goalkeeper angrily throwing the ball at the defender.


The game was effectively over as a contest as Villa continued to
look the most likely team to score, but Kenny kept the score down
to three.

