

Pakistani police have detained hundreds of opposition workers to
prevent them from joining a rally in support of a top judge
sacked by President Pervez Musharraf, activists said Saturday.


Opposition parties said police had raided the homes of their
workers and detained hundreds ahead of the planned rally for
Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry.


Chaudhry, who is fighting a legal battle against his dismissal,
is travelling by road from Islamabad to the eastern city of
Lahore, where lawyers have promised him a "historic welcome."


Officials said police had blocked roads to prevent Chaudhry's
supporters from joining his caravan.


"Thousands of people have joined the caravan of the chief justice
despite the police preventing a large number of people from
joining us," said Muhammad Ramzan of the Pakistan Bar Council.


Organisers said the planned rally would be the biggest since
Musharraf sacked Chaudhry on March 9, sparking a political
crisis.


"We expect around 50,000 people to attend the function we are
hosting in the honour of chief justice," President Lahore High
Court Bar Association Muhammad Ahsan Bhoon told AFP.


Bhoon said Chaudhry was expected to arrive in Lahore around
6:00pm (1300 GMT).


Musharraf Wednesday urged the lawyers to refrain from
politicising a legal issue.


"This is a constitutional and judicial issue and those giving it
a political tone will not be successful in their designs,"
Musharraf told a political rally at Naukot, a desert town in the
southern province of Sindh.


Musharraf's decision to sack Chaudhry sparked uproar from
opposition parties, who called it an attempt to intimidate the
judiciary, and prompted an inquiry by a five-judge panel.


Rallies have been held regularly, and lawyers have boycotted
court hearings to demand his reinstatement.


The Supreme Judicial Council, which is hearing Chaudhry's case,
adjourned proceedings on Thursday until May 9 after lawyers
concluded arguments about the validity and composition of the
council.


Chaudhry has also filed a separate constitutional petition at the
Supreme Court challenging Musharraf's action against him. The
court is to take up the petition on Monday.


The government had asked Chaudhry not to travel by road to
Lahore, some 260 kilometres (162 miles) southwest of Islamabad,
citing the security situation.


Pakistan was rocked by a suicide bombing last week in which 29
people were killed and federal interior minister Aftab Sherpao
was injured.


Around 7,000 policemen and security officials have been deployed
for the Lahore rally.


"Our prime focus is the security of the chief justice, lawyers
and the persons participating in the function," senior police
official Malik Mohammad Iqbal told AFP.

