

Slovakia earned a place in the world icehockey championship's
quarter-finals following a hard-fought 3-2 win over former
compatriots Czech Republic in their Group F match here on
Saturday.


Both teams battled for the initiative throughout the opening
period but managed to find the net only once before the first
intermission.


Montreal Canadiens forward Tomasz Plekanec opened the score 8:02
into the match beating Slovakia's goalie Karol Krizan from the
left face-off circle on powerplay.


But after the restart Slovakia added power and precision to their
attacks and levelled through Minnesota Wild forward Pavol
Demitra, who beat Czech goalie Roman Cechmanek with a sharp-
angled shot between the pads at 22:24.


Richard Kapus lifted Slovaks 2-1 up firing in from close range
from Peter Podhradsky's pass from behind the net eight minutes
later.


In the third Czechs poured in attack seeking for an equaliser but
to no avail as Slovakia defended stoutly replying on the counter-
attacks and went to a 3-1 lead through Marian Gaborik, who fired
under the crossbar from the right face-off circle.


Columbus Blue Jackets defender Rostislav Klesla reduced the
arrears just 50 sec later but failed to save the day for his side
leaving the Czechs in a must-win position ahead of their Sunday's
match against Canada.


Paul Stastny recorded a double and an assist, while goalie John
Grahame produced 23 saves to pick a shutout and help the United
States to enter the knockout stage with a 3-0 win over Germany in
the other Group F match.


Colorado Avalanche forward Stastny lifted US team 1-0 up 2:33
into the match sending the puck in from close range from Eric
Cole's cross-ice pass on powerplay.


In the second the Americans missed a hatful of chances before
Stastny scored his second at 35:26 again from Cole's pass, while
Lee Stempniak finalised the scoring 3:31 into the third.


Finland, who won a bronze medal last year at Riga, also secured a
place in the last eight with a confident win over Italy 3-0.


Jari Viuhkola and Jukka Hentunen were on target for the Finns in
the opening period to give their side a comfortable 2-0
advantage.


After that Finland eased up the pressure but nevertheless scored
once again through Viuhkola, who netted his second of the match
2:31 into the third period dashing Italy's hopes of entering the
knockout stage of the championship.


In the other Group E clash earlier on Saturday Switzerland booked
their pass into the event's play-offs beating Denmark 4-1.


Thibaut Monnet put the Swiss side into the lead with his
powerplay goal 13:19 into the game firing in with a powerful shot
from the blue line.


Paul di Pietro and Julien Sprunger added one apiece in the second
to make it 3-0 for Switzerland before Jesper Damgaard netted a
consolation for the Danes at 36:41.


Sprunger restored Swiss team's three-goal lead halfway into the
third with his second goal of the match.

