

The New South Wales Waratahs gatecrashed the farewell party for
one of New Zealand's rugby greats here Saturday when they beat
Tana Umaga's Wellington Hurricanes 38-14 in a Super 14 rugby
match.


For two sides who last clashed in the 2006 semi-finals, but were
well out of contention this year, there was nothing to play for
but pride, and the Hurricanes had all the motivation with the
departure of Umaga.


But what was meant to be a memorable send-off for one of the
originals of Super rugby turned into a Hurricanes embarrassment
as the unfancied Waratahs ran in four tries to two.


It was only the Waratahs' third win of a forgettable season in
which they finished 11th on the table while the Hurricanes were
eighth.


But, for the popular Umaga, who received a standing ovation from
the 25,000-strong crowd when he left the field, it was still an
enjoyable occasion.


"I had some fun out there, and then I got tired, and then I got
subbed," he laughed.


"I was here at the start when we lost and I'm going out on
another loss so it's not that new to me."


Both sides tried to produce festival-style rugby, with attack and
counter-attack from all corners of the field, although the free-
flowing style also brought a high number of handling errors


Umaga featured on the wrong side of the first scoring move when
he was penalised for a dangerous tackle on Lote Tuqiri which saw
Peter Hewat land the first of four penalties as the Waratahs
posted their first ever win in Wellington.


Dean Mumm was gifted the opening try when he waltzed through a
lineout and ran 30 metres to the line.


A Hewat conversion and another penalty had the Waratahs up 13-0
before the Hurricanes scored just before halftime when a burst by
John Schwalger opened the way for Jimmy Gopperth to score with
Piri Weepu adding the conversion.


The second half had no sooner started than a Sam Harris kick
bounced into the arms to Lachlan Turner, followed immediately by
Tuqiri scoring his first try in a year and with two Hewat
conversions the Waratahs were up 27-7.


The Hurricanes came back with Jerry Collins driven over the line,
and Weepu's conversion narrowed the gap to 27-14, but they would
get no closer.


Two more Hewat penalties lifted the Waratahs to 33-14, and he
increased his personal match tally to 18 when he converted Ben
Jacobs late try.

