

Cristiano Ronaldo's penalty left Manchester United with one hand
on the Premiership trophy as his side earned a crucial 1-0 win at
crisis-ridden Manchester City on Saturday.


Ronaldo scored from the spot on 34 minutes to notch his 23rd goal
of the season after he had been tripped by Michael Ball.


It was the perfect response from United in the wake of their
humbling 3-0 Champions League semi-final defeat to AC Milan in
midweek - losing 5-3 on aggregate - and increased their lead over
Chelsea at the top of the table to eight points.


United will be crowned champions for the 16th time unless Chelsea
beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium on Sunday.


The writing was on the wall for Manchester City - who are subject
to two rival bids to buy them and also had to suspend their star
midfielder Joey Barton earlier in the week after a training
ground altercation with Frenchman Ousmane Dabo - once they had
fallen behind as Stuart Pearce's side finished their home
campaign having scored just once at Eastlands in the Premiership
since New Year's Day.


But City still contrived to miss a penalty 10 minutes from time
when Darius Vassell saw his spot kick saved by Edwin van Der Sar
after Wes Brown had tripped Ball.


United manager Sir Alex Ferguson was able to recall influential
defender Rio Ferdinand, badly missed in the San Siro, while Alan
Smith was recalled in attack alongside Wayne Rooney.


Eastlands' biggest crowd of the season generated a tremendous
atmosphere, not least because the home side could hammer a huge
dent in United's title aspirations.


This was arguably the greatest incentive of all for the majority
of the 47,000 inside the ground, but in order to do this City
would have to end their woeful home goal drought.


Ball was guilty of a nasty stamp on Ronaldo in the opening
minutes, which combined with Ferguson's irate reaction towards a
linesman did little to ease the tension as it became evident
United were not going to have things all their own way.


Pearce's decision to select a five man midfield did little to
enhance his side's chances of scoring, but the purpose was to
stifle the forward runs of Michael Carrick, Ryan Giggs and
Ronaldo.


United had to wait 20 minutes for their first opening, Ferdinand
finding Ronaldo with a precise ball but his control let him down.


Moments later Ronaldo flicked Giggs's corner to the back post
where Ferdinand was waiting, but his header back rebounded off
the crossbar and was gratefully gathered by Andreas Isaksson.


The home team were happy to sit back and try and hit their
opponents on the counter attack.


Emile Mpenza stung the palms of van Der Sar with a powerful turn
and volley on 16 minutes, while Demarcus Beasley did the same
with a similar effort from the edge of the penalty area 13
minutes later.


Just when United's frustrations were beginning to surface,
however, the breakthrough came when Ball's outstretched foot was
enough to send Ronaldo crashing to the turf.


Referee Rob Styles pointed to the spot, from where the Portugal
international lashed a clinical penalty into the bottom corner to
secure the advantage.


His strike was to prove more than enough as the visitors cruised
through the second half without their lead being threatened.


Pearce threw on Trevor Sinclair and Paul Dickov in a bid to give
home fans a goal to cheer but it made no difference.


City's last chance came when Brown was penalised for a colllison
with Ball. Vassell drove his penalty down the middle but van der
Sar, diving the wrong way, managed to save the shot with his
legs.


That save surely means United's four year wait to regain the
title is over.

