

Top challengers BMW Oracle of the United States and Italy's Luna
Rossa formally clinched the first semi-final berths at the Louis
Vuitton Cup off Valencia on Saturday as they edged toward their
dream of facing defending America's Cup champion Alinghi.


Emirates Team New Zealand, who featured British yachting heroine
Ellen MacArthur as their non-participating 18th crew member
against United Internet Team Germany, also duly picked up two
more points, winning by 2min 07 to cement their third place.


"I tried to watch everyone individually to see what they all did
to try to get a better understanding of it," said MacArthur. "It
was fascinating and it clearly worked very well today."


But she said she would have to study form still further before
committing herself to the New Zealanders' chances of making it
through to the final and regaining the "Auld Mug" from Alinghi.


Team strategist Ray Davies was jubilant after the Kiwis came in
with some 700 metres to spare to maintain their record as the
only unbeaten team in round robin two.


"The team had control of the race though the pressure was there
in the pre- start, where the Germans had the edge on us.


"But after that we were able to ease up a little bit. It's been a
full on programme so far," he added, warning that even though
they are the form team "we are going to have to be on our game"
as the event comes towards its climax.


Spain's Desafio have an oar in the last four after a highly
productive day which saw them first beat South Africa's
Shosholoza and then beat Mascalzone of Italy, thanks largely to
superior gybe technique, in a rematch of flight four which moved
them five points clear of sweden's Victory Challenge.


The Italians had won Wednesday's encounter but were penalised for
an infringement in using their backstay during the race against
America's Cup Class rules.


Victory Challenge maintained that the win should have stood,
which would have knocked back Desafio's charge to the semis, but
their rematch win all but sends the hosts through.


Against Shosholoza earlier, Desafio had to fight hard to move
13sec ahead at the delta gate, getting into their stride as the
spinnaker filled.


Both tacked over onto starboard before the South Africans
wriggled back over to port in a bid to extract themselves but it
was all to no avail and holes in their spinnaker did not help
their cause.


Then the Spanish came back in the downwind section to see off
Mascalzone, who had thrashed China Team in morning action, by
35sec.


BMW Oracle earlier scored an emphatic victory by 1min 28 at the
final Delta mark over Areva Challenge of France, who saw their
lingering chance of progress evaporate.


Italy's Luna Rossa, sharing the top of the leaderboard with BWM
Oracle at the start of the day a point clear of the Kiwis and six
clear of Desafio, took early control over compatriots +39
Challenge, who were hit with a penalty as their rivals ultimately
cruised to a 1:04 win.


The top four teams following this second round-robin stage will
go through to the Louis Vuitton Cup semifinals from May 14-24.


After Thursday's storms, which forced double flight duty on
Friday, Saturday saw good, light conditions with light northerly
to west winds peaking at nine knots and plenty of sun was
forecast for Sunday's racing.

