

At least nine people including three children were killed in a
bomb attack and shootings by suspected Islamic rebels in
Thailand's restive Muslim-majority south, police said Saturday.


A 15-kilogram (nine pounds) bomb hidden under a bridge went off
late Saturday, killing a two-year-old Muslim girl and two border
patrol officers in Yala, one of three violence-torn southern
provinces bordering Malaysia.


The adult victims were among six border patrol officers
travelling on motorcycle, police said, adding the bomb was set
off by remote control.


The attack capped a day of violence in Yala, where at least six
people were killed in separate attacks by suspected Islamic
militants.


A Muslim man was gunned down Saturday in a drive-by shooting,
while rebels ambushed a motorcycle late Friday and shot dead a
Muslim father and his two children, an 11-year-old girl and a
seven-year-old boy.


A Muslim man was hacked to death by militants in public view at a
Yala market late Friday, and police found the body of another man
in a river in the province, also a suspected victim of Thailand's
three-year insurgency.


Police said several hundred Muslim women and children blocked a
highway in Yala Saturday as they continued their sit-in for a
third consecutive day to demand authorities release suspected
militants.


Earlier in the day, some 20 kilometres (12 miles) away from the
sit-in, hundreds of Buddhists also took to the streets, demanding
the Muslims end the road blockade.


More than 2,100 people have been killed in the ongoing insurgency
in the three southern provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani.


The Muslim-majority provinces were once an autonomous sultanate,
until the region was annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a
century ago. Separatist unrest has erupted periodically ever
since.


The military-backed government, which came to power after a
September coup, has made peace-building efforts in a bid to rein
in the unrest, but violence has escalated in the last six months.

