

David Beckham's 6.5 million-dollar 2007 salary from the Los
Angeles Galaxy dwarfs the wages of his new Major League Soccer
colleagues, figures released by the MLS Players Association show.


A total of 57 MLS players will earn just 12,900 dollars in 2007,
data from the association said. The salary figures given are the
average guaranteed annual compensation for a player, including a
percentage of any signing bonus but not performance bonuses.


Beckham, the former England national team captain who will leave
Spanish League giant Real Madrid in June, signed a five-year
contract with the Galaxy that could be worth 250 million dollars,
including lucrative sponsorship deals.


While Beckham prepares for his Galaxy debut around early July, 25
percent of MLS players are on the so-called "development roster"
of teams, earning 12,900 dollars and 17,700 dollars a year.


All are young Americans just starting their professional careers,
according to the union, which would like to see salaries at the
lower end of the scale bumped up league wide.


"It's a big, big problem," Bob Foose, the executive director of
the players' union, told the Los Angeles Times. "A third of the
league has to ask their parents for money to pay the rent."


Foose would like to see players on development rosters brought to
the senior roster minimum of 30,000 dollars per year, which he
believes could be accomplished for little more than 100,000
dollars per team, per year.


"It's imminently doable," he told the Times.


While Beckham leads the salary stakes, the new rule allowing
teams to offer greater compensation to lure international stars
can be seen in action elsewhere.


Mexican striker Cuauhtemoc Blanco of the Chicago Fire has
guaranteed compensation of 2.6 million dollars.


The Red Bulls' marquee signing - Colombian striker Juan Pablo
Angel - will make 1.6 million dollars. Angel came from English
Premiership team Aston Villa.


The Red Bulls have another high-priced player in American Claudio
Reyna, who played in Europe for more than a decade and has
guaranteed compensation of 1.25 million dollars.


Galaxy midfielder Landon Donovan is set to pick up 900,000
dollars.

