

Rangers strolled to an easy 2-0 victory over champions and arch
rivals Celtic to secure second place in the Scottish Premier
League at Ibrox on Saturday.


Kris Boyd grabbed his first ever goal against Celtic in the first
half and Charlie Adam doubled the Ibrox side's lead with a second
half free-kick to ensure qualification for next season's
Champions League.


After a scrappy opening period it took until the 14th minute for
the first effort on goal.


Rangers' Kevin Thomson slid the ball in for Spaniard Nacho Novo
and his low right-foot shot from 16-yards required Celtic's
Polish goalkeeper Artur Boruc to save low to his right.


Both teams had favoured 4-5-1 formations, and consequently there
were few openings in the early stages.


However, it was the Ibrox side who were enjoying most of the
possession and in the 32nd minute they created the second chance
of the match.


Novo pulled the ball back for Charlie Adam, who had driven in
towards the penalty spot, but the midfielder miss-hit his shot
from 18-yards and Boruc saved comfortably.


But in the 34th minute Rangers deservedly took the lead.


Novo's lobbed pass wrong-footed the Celtic defence to leave Boyd
in space and although the striker's left-foot volley was not
cleanly struck it bounced past the outstretched Boruc and into
the net.


Rangers were buoyed by the opener and looked to double their lead
before the half-time break.


Novo was inches away from a second goal in the 44th minute with a
powerful right-foot drive from 20 yards which rose just over
Boruc's crossbar.


Neil Lennon, making his last appearance in an Old Firm match, was
subjected to the now customary boos from the Rangers support
throughout the match.


In reply the Celtic captain made a sarcastic bow in front of the
Ibrox club's fans as he made his way off the pitch at half-time.


Celtic manager Gordon Strachan replaced Danish midfielder Thomas
Gravesen with striker Kenny Miller at the break to switch to a
more attacking 4-4-2 formation.


The change almost paid off in the 53rd minute when Miller stepped
over Lee Naylor's cross, allowing the ball to reach Jan Vennegoor
of Hesselink and the Dutch striker knocked into the path of
Shunsuke Nakamura.


However, the Japanese playmaker's shot was blocked by Rangers
goalkeeper Allan McGregor and Miller could not reach the loose
ball in time to turn it into the empty net.


Celtic's miss was quickly punished at the other end in the 55th
minute after Rangers captain Barry Ferguson was fouled by Paul
Hartley on the edge of the visitor's penalty box.


Adam took the free-kick and struck a low left-foot shot
underneath Celtic's defensive wall into the bottom corner of the
net, leaving Boruc motionless.


Rangers were now rampant and looked to take advantage of their
superiority.


Slovakian striker Filip Sebo, who replaced Boyd in the 63rd
minute, rounded Celtic defender Stephen McManus in the 66th
minute and his low shot from close range was turned round the
post by Boruc.


From the resulting corner Adam's cross reached Alan Hutton and
his first-time volley required Naylor to clear off the line.


With Celtic pushing men forward in the closing stages Sebo should
have scored Rangers' third in the 83rd minute when he ran clear
on goal but his shot from 18-yards flew wide.


And in injury time Adam came close to his second with a curling
left-foot effort from 20-yards which was just wide of the post.


In the end Rangers were comfortable victors against a
disappointing Celtic who never looked likely to take anything
from the match.

