

Ruling Palestinian Islamist party Hamas on Saturday rejected a US
plan put to Israel and the Palestinians to end rocket fire in
exchange for eased restrictions on Palestinian movement.


"We forcefully reject this abject and terrorist plan because it
calls for killing the Palestinian people and legalising the
occupation of Palestinian territory in exchange for security" in
Israel, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhum told AFP.


The document sets out a timetable for implementing measures aimed
at easing Israeli restrictions on the movement of Palestinians in
Gaza and the occupied West Bank and and addressing Israeli
security concerns about militant rocket fire.


"The American administration is concerned about the security of
the Israeli occupation and offers no protection to the
Palestinian people. It wants to destroy the resistance and
reinforce one side at the expense of the other," Barhum said.


The document, a copy of which was obtained by Israel's Haaretz
daily on Friday, sets out a timeline for implementing steps on
security and movement.


In exchange for eased Israeli restrictions, the Palestinians
would have until June 21 to establish a detailed plan to prevent
the launching of rockets that are regularly fired by Gaza-based
militants into the Jewish state.


Exiled Hamas chief Khaled Meshaal had on Friday told Al-Jazeera
television that the US plan was "a joke" and that Hamas rejected
any proposal that "marginalises the Palestinian cause."


However, Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat told AFP on
Friday that the plan was "a very good approach."


"It is a timeline with monitors that sets out obligations by the
Palestinians and the Israelis and is aimed at deeds, not words,"
he said, adding that the Palestinian government would discuss the
plan further with the Americans.


Erakat on Saturday said the plan would be discussed by the
Palestine Liberation Organisation and president Mahmud Abbas, who
would then travel to Gaza on Sunday for talks with Hamas prime
minister Ismail Haniya.


Following Hamas's rejection of the plan, Erakat said he was
"surprised people will comment before seeing it ... No decision
has been taken yet but it should be studied very carefully".


An official in Ehud Olmert's office on Friday said the Israeli
premier would discuss the document next week, but warned that the
Jewish state would not be able to implement some of the
recommended steps.


The US State Department on Friday confirmed it had circulated
guidelines to Israelis and Palestinians about the next
confidence-building measures to be taken, but played down the
notion of a strict timetable.


A US official in the region told AFP on Saturday that the
document was an "informal draft and this is for further
discussion... At this point we haven't asked either side to
approve, accept or adopt these benchmarks."


In recent months, the United States, Israel's main ally, has
intensified efforts to jumpstart peace talks between the Israelis
and Palestinians, which have been stalled for six years.

