

Cellphone videos have appeared on the Internet showing an Iraqi
mob stoning and kicking to death 17-year-old girl after she
offended her minority community by eloping with a Muslim man.


Doaa Khalil Aswad was a member of northern Iraq's Yazidi minority
and, according to reports in the Kurdish media, she was murdered
last month by her own family after she fell in love with a
Muslim.


In the video, Aswad is shown lying on a road as men kick her and
throw a large lump of rock or concrete at her head. Her face is
drenched in blood.


Uniformed and armed officers of the Iraqi police stand by as a
crowd storms her home and do nothing to prevent the attack.


The slim, dark-haired girl is wearing a red tracksuit top and
black underwear and during the beating, someone drapes a jacket
over her to cover her bare legs.


At one point she struggles to sit up and cover herself, but a man
kicks her in the face knocking her violently back to the ground.


The assault continues for several minutes and she does not appear
to cry out or resist her attackers.


Members of a large crowd can be seen filming the murder on their
cellphones, some of them shouting or kicking out at the cowering
victim.


Nobody tries to help her.


When news of Aswad's murder surfaced last month, it triggered an
apparent revenge attack.


On April 23, gunmen stopped a bus carrying workers from her
community, dragged out 23 Yazidis and shot them dead in vengeance
for what they saw as the murder of a Muslim convert.


Last week the United Nations' quarterly report on human rights in
Iraq expressed serious concern over a rise in so-called "honour
killings" of women deemed to have betrayed their families in
Kurdish Iraq.


Yazidis -- who number some 500,000, mainly in northern Iraq --
speak a dialect of Kurdish but follow a pre-Islamic religion and
have their own cultural traditions.


They believe in God the creator and respect the Biblical and
Koranic prophets, especially Abraham, but their main focus of
worship is Malak Taus, the chief of the archangels, often
represented by a peacock.


Followers of other religions know this angel as Lucifer or Satan,
leading to popular prejudice that the secretive Yazidis are
devil-worshippers.


Nevertheless, the community has survived for centuries alongside
its Muslim and Christian neighbours. Now, however, with sectarian
war gripping much of Iraq, Sunni Muslim extremists have begun to
threaten them.

