

Manchester United moved to within touching distance of the
Premiership title after Cristiano Ronaldo's penalty clinched a
1-0 win at Manchester City on Saturday.


United are now eight points clear of second placed Chelsea and
will be crowned champions for the first time since 2003 if Jose
Mourinho's men fail to beat Arsenal on Sunday.


Even if the Blues win at Arsenal, Sir Alex Ferguson's side can
seal the league title on Wednesday if they avoid defeat against
Chelsea.


Ronaldo's spot-kick and a late penalty save from Edwin van der
Sar gave United the win over their bitter local rivals at
Eastlands.


The league leaders took the lead in the 34th minute with a goal
that was especially sweet for Ronaldo.


Michael Ball had been guilty of a vicious stamp on Ronaldo early
in the first half, but the Portugal winger was quick to exact
revenge as he drew the left- back into a rash lunge that earned a
penalty.


Ronaldo picked himself up to send Andreas Isaksson the wrong way
from the spot for his 23rd goal of a superb season that has seen
him pick up both Footballer of the Year awards - winning the vote
from the football writers' and the PFA (Professional Footballers
Association).


City hadn't scored a home league goal since New Year's Day, but
they had a glorious chance to end that barren run in the 81st
minute when Ball won a soft penalty after colliding with Wes
Brown.


Darius Vassell took the spot-kick, but his shot struck van der
Sar's legs and deflected to safety as United held on for a
potentially decisive victory in the title race.


At the other end of the table, West Ham moved out of the
relegation zone thanks to a match-winning display from Carlos
Tevez, who has been at the centre of a bitter row over his
eligibility to play for the Hammers.


West Ham's relegation rivals are considering legal action against
the Premier League after the London club were only fined rather
than handed a points penalty for playing Tevez even though he was
not registered properly.


So it was inevitable that Tevez would play a major role in his
side's 3-1 win over Bolton at Upton Park. The Argentina striker
opened the scoring with a 10th minute free-kick and added a
second in the 21st minute with a close range finish.


Mark Noble added a third in the 29th minute and Gary Speed's 67th
minute strike was little consolation for debutant Bolton manager
Sammy Lee as Alan Curbishley's side edged closer to a great
escape with their sixth win in eight matches.


West Ham's victory plunged Wigan into the bottom three after Paul
Jewell's side lost 1-0 against Middlesbrough.


Wigan chairman Dave Whelan has led the protests against West Ham
and it is his side who are in danger of slipping into the
Championship instead after Australia striker Mark Viduka's 29th
minute goal at the JJB Stadium.


Clint Dempsey secured Fulham's Premiership status as his second
half goal snatched a vital 1-0 win over Champions League
finalists Liverpool.


Dempsey turned in Liam Rosensior's cross after 69 minutes at
Craven Cottage to give Lawrie Sanchez's side, who had Papa Bouba
Diop sent off in the last minute, their first win in 12 matches.


Mikel Arteta kept Everton on course for a UEFA Cup place as his
second half penalty set up a 3-0 win against Portmouth.


Arteta struck from the spot in the 59th minute, then Joseph Yobo
added a second three minutes later and Gary Naysmith scored in
the last minute to lift David Moyes's team into fifth place.


Benni McCarthy spoiled Michael Owen's homecoming as his goal put
Blackburn on course for a 2-0 win at Newcastle.


Owen was making his first appearance at St James' Park since
December 2005 after recovering from a knee injury, but South
African striker McCarthy scored in the 14th minute and Jason
Roberts' 73rd minute strike ensured Rovers stole the spotlight.


Already-relegated Watford landed just their fifth league win this
season as goals from Danny Shittu and Marlon King secured a 2-0
success at Reading.


Aston Villa play Sheffield United in Saturday's late match, while
Tottenham travel to Charlton on Monday.

