

Paul-Henri Mathieu quit after 17 minutes with a right leg injury
on Saturday to hand good friend and fellow Frenchman Richard
Gasquet a place in the final of the Estoril Open.


The 3-1 result puts fifth seed Gasquet into a Sunday showdown
with the form player of the moment, Serb Novak Djokovic.


The third seed surged into his fourth final of a breakthrough
season on Saturday with a 7-5, 6-1 defeat of second seed Tommy
Robredo.


Djokovic found a reserve of fitness after taking more than two
and a half hours to win the day before, improving his career
record over the 25-year-old Spaniard to 3-1.


The teenaged winner who turns 20 later this month will play for
his third title of 2007.


Mathieu, who won the Casablanca title last week, had strung
together eight victories before his letdown on a wind-blown
court.


"I hurt my leg in the second round and wasn't sure that I'd be
able to play today," he said. "I gave it a try - but no miracle."


The Frenchman complained that organisers gave him little
consideration as a title-winner last week, scheduling him for a
last match on Tuesday and a first on Wednedsday.


"I was really mad about that, but what can you do. It's not
normal.


"Now I hope that Richard goes all the way and wins the final."


Djokovic currently stands a career-best fifth in the world after
winning titles in January at Adelaide and in March at the Miami
Masters.


He lost the Indian Wells final two months ago to Rafael Nadal.


Djokovic, now 30-6 on the season, recovered from an early break
in the first set, levelling at five games each against world
number seven Robredo.


After Robredo saved a set point in the 12th game, Djokovic nosed
over the line to win the set after 48 minutes.


Riding a run of momentum, the Serb earned a 3-1 lead in the
second, with two breaks enough to see him through.


"I didn't sleep so well last night," said Djokovic. "And I was
afraid I would not recover well. But I felt good during the warm-
up and everything went fine in the match.


"After Robredo served for the set (5-4 in the first) and was
broken, it all changed for me. I played some good shots in that
game.


"I had to be aggressive and patient, wait for my opportunities.
I'm happy I managed to pull up well physically."


Djokovic leads Gasquet 1-0 in their series.


In the women's event, former Australian and US Open junior
champion Viktoria Azarenka will face off in her first WTA-level
final against a German 11 years her senior.


Belarus-born Azarenka, 17, who trains in the desert heat of
Scottsdale, upset third-seeded former champion Lucie Safarova
6-4, 6-0.


The Czech won the title in 2005.


"I'm in a dream, this is fantasy," said the excited winner, who
has shown form this season with third-round placings at the
Australian Open, Indian Wells and Miami.


"I'm enjoying this a lot. I didn't play so well on clay last
season, but I've improved my game a lot now."


German Greta Arn, ranked 176th to the 68th of Azarenka, booked
her place in the title match over Spain's Nuria Llagostera Vives
7-6 (7/0), 6-2.

