

The Coastal Sharks will host a Super 14 semi-final next weekend
after downing the Western Stormers 36-10 here at Newlands Stadium
Saturday.


The visitors from Durban scored five tries to one to finish top
of the table in the southern hemisphere inter-provincial rugby
competition, above the defending champions Canterbury Crusaders
and Auckland Blues, who at one stage appeared to be running away
with their opponents.


The Sharks amassed 45 log points from their 13 matches.


It is the first time in the history of Super rugby that a South
African team has finished top of the standings after the league
fixtures. The Sharks, with 10 victories from 13 matches, won more
games than any other team this year.


Coach Dick Muir's side will play the fourth-placed team in next
weekend's semi- finals.


Going into the final match of the weekend, the ACT Brumbies
occupied fourth position, but the sixth-placed Northern Bulls
were set to face the bottom-placed Queensland Reds at Loftus
Versfeld in Pretoria. A win would put the Bulls into fourth spot
- to face their countrymen.


"I'm really chuffed," said Sharks captain John Smit in a
television interview afterwards.


"We've now got a lot of work ahead of us this week. But I'm very
happy."


Sharks coach Muir said: "I'm very proud of the guys. We're
looking forward to a home semifinal - let's hope we can make our
fans proud."


A fired-up Sharks showed their intent from the off, racing into a
14-0 lead inside seven minutes after two converted tries.


No 8 Ryan Kankowski scored as early as the fourth minute and
three minutes later centre Waylon Murray finished off a wonderful
move after scrumhalf Ruan Pienaar had broken down the blindside
from a scrum and fed Percy Montgomery, whose inside pass sent
Murray on his way.


Both scores were converted by Montgomery.


The Stormers though, coming off three convincing wins on home
soil, dominated the next 10 minutes and after lock Gerrie Britz
and scrumhalf Bolla Conradie failed to finish off promising
attacking moves, flyhalf Peter Grant eventually got his team on
the board with a superb solo effort in the 17th minute.


Grant stepped past Sharks No 10 Butch James and then broke
through the tackle of Frans Steyn to dot down under the uprights.
His conversion and a penalty goal five minutes later reduced the
deficit to just four points, leaving the visitors 14-10 up.


Then with 10 minutes to the break, Montgomery crashed over in the
right-hand corner with Stormers backs Corne Uys and Conrad
Jantjes wrapped around his body. The television match official
awarded the try and the fullback's third conversion, from the
touchline, ensured his side a comfortable 21-10 lead.


While the Springbok fullback hit the uprights with two penalty
attempts late in the first period, the Sharks stretched their
lead to 14 points soon after the restart after a further
Montgomery penalty.


With their tails up the men from Durban looked to put the result
beyond doubt and midway through the second period winger Steyn
crossed in the corner after benefiting from a bit of poor
handling by Stormers pivot Grant.


The Sharks added a fifth try to their tally on the stroke of
full-time when winger JP Pietersen crossed the tryline and
Montgomery made no mistake with the conversion.

