

Millions of French voters casting their ballots for the right-
winger Nicolas Sarkozy or the socialist Segolene Royal may be the
last to discover the name of their new president on Sunday night.


French electoral laws, among the strictest in Europe, ban the
publication of any opinion polls, estimates of results or angled
news reports from the day before a vote until the close of polls,
to avoid influencing voters' choice.


For Sunday's presidential vote, in which France chooses a
successor to the 74 -year-old Jacques Chirac, the ban runs from
midnight (2200 GMT) Friday to the close of the last polling
stations at 8:00 pm (1800 GMT).


In France's overseas territories in the Caribbean and north
Atlantic, which vote a day early, television screens went blank
Thursday at midnight, with all cable and satellite news
broadcasts suspended for 24 hours.


National news programmes were carried with a delay, to allow
editors to slice out any reference to the electoral campaign on
the mainland.


But though strictly applied in France, with fines of 75,000 euros
(100,000 dollars) for offenders -- the rules are not enforced in
neighbouring countries or for websites based outside the country.


In practice, any French person with an Internet connection, or
who can pick up Swiss or Belgian radio from across the border,
can easily circumvent the law.


From 1630 GMT on Sunday, the first projections of the results,
conducted by polling firms based on a sample of votes cast but
not designed for publication, will be sent out to political
parties and the media.


In the April 22 first round, these secret figures were leaked and
released by foreign media almost two hours before official
projections were published in France at 1800 GMT -- and the same
scenario is likely this weekend.


One Swiss mobile phone operator, Echovox -- in what it admits is
a publicity stunt -- is offering to send text messages of the
projections across the border to French users, for a 1.50-euro
fee.


With French bloggers also threatening to post leaked estimates on
their sites from 1630 GMT, the French media stand to be among the
last to publish the estimated results of the country's own
election.


Critics in France, including AFP, argue that the law puts French-
based news organisations at a competitive disadvantage in a
globalised media environment.


"We're in an awful situation," said Denis Hiault, global news
director at AFP.


"As a French registered company we have to abide by the law of
the land, despite the fact that this law is in some way obsolete
in the Internet age," he said.


In the first round of voting last month, AFP had to wait until
1800 GMT to give the results even though it had them in hand for
an hour beforehand, Hiault said.


AFP coverage of the first round was a success overall, Hiault
said. "We're confident that our strength on the ground will make
a difference at the end of the day," he added.


"But it is a unique and frustrating moment for journalists to
have to hold back information which is being used outside France
by non-French media. That last hour before the official release
of the results seems to drag on for ever."

