

Bernard Hopkins, who spent a decade as middleweight champion,
tries to prove he is still a title contender at 42 when he faces
former world junior middleweight champion Winky Wright in July.


Hopkins, the self-styled "Executioner", comes out of retirement
here on July 21 to face 35-year-old southpaw Wright, who has not
lost since 1999, in a light- heavyweight matchup of US veterans.


"I'm going to beat you so bad you will never come back," Wright
taunted at a Saturday news confernce. "On July 21, Bernard
Hopkins is going back into retirement."


Hopkins plans to keep Father Time at bay and punish Wright, who
has not lost in 13 fights since falling to Fernando Vargas eight
years ago.


"I'm your grandfather. You're going to get beat up by a 42-year-
old man," Hopkins told Wright. "Nobody wants to be known for
getting their ass kicked by a senior citizen.


"I respect your record. I don't respect you. You want to stop my
plans for the future. You want to send me into retirement. I take
that personally. I can't let some guy named Winky Stinky beat me.
I can't deal with that."


Wright is 51-3 with one draw and 25 knockouts while Hopkins is
47-4 with one draw and 32 knockouts. Hopkins has not fought since
beating Antonio Tarver last June. Wright's most recent bout was a
victory over Ike Quartey last December.


"I'm looking to execute. I'm looking to solve puzzles no one else
can solve," Hopkins said. "Winky Wright has never been knocked
out. It has never happened. Until now."


Hopkins made 20 title defenses before losing twice in 2005 to
unbeaten Jermain Taylor, who barely kept his crown last June by
fighting Wright to a draw. Both men also beat Felix Trinidad,
Hopkins doing so in 2001 for the undisputed middleweight title
and Wright in 2005 to thwart a comeback bid.


"He had my leftovers," Hopkins said. "Trinidad hasn't been the
same since 2001. Taylor might have gotten the victory but it took
a lot of fight out of him."


The fight will have a weight limit of 170 pounds, just above
super middleweight status and at a comfortable level for Wright
to rise and Hopkins to drop down and reach.


"He's a bigger fighter. He's a stronger fighter," Wright said.
"We've both got two hands. We both have to throw punches."


"Weight is not a problem in this fight. I'm going to take that
bullet out of your gun right now," Hopkins said. "Winky will be
fighting at a weight where he's comfortable."

