

Mark Viduka scored a vital winner as Middlesbrough condemned
Wigan to a 1-0 defeat which leaves Paul Jewell's side clinging on
to their place in the Premiership.


Australia striker Viduka's first-half strike at the JJB Stadium
combined with West Ham's win over Bolton has plunged the Latics
into the relegation zone.


Jewell's men now lie third from bottom, three points away from
safety, as relegation rivals West Ham and Fulham both scored
vital victories.


The result confirms the visitors' Premiership status for next
season.


Middlesbrough boss Gareth Southgate sprung a surprise before
kick-off by leaving top scorer Aiyegbeni Yakubu out of his 16-man
squad.


The home team knew the importance of a fast start and nearly
opened the scoring in the second minute when Emile Heskey
narrowly failed to connect with a Ryan Taylor cross.


The Latics' high-tempo opening was almost rewarded in the eighth
minute but Nigeria international Julius Aghahowa just failed to
connect with Antonio Valencia's teasing cross.


Scotland international Lee McCulloch came even closer for Wigan
in the 17th minute as his header from a Taylor cross rebounded
agonisingly off the bar.


Ex-Leeds striker Viduka made Jewell's men pay for their
wastefulness in the 28th minute with a scrappy goal from a
Stewart Downing free-kick.


England winger Downing slipped when delivering his cross but the
ball still found its way to the unmarked Australian and he easily
finished past goalkeeper Mike Pollitt from six yards for his 12th
league goal of the season.


Wigan pushed for the equaliser and had shots from Heskey and
Australia international Josip Skoko blocked by last-ditch
Middlesbrough defending.


Former Liverpool man Heskey had a chance to give the increasingly
anxious home fans something to cheer just before half-time, but
his header was easily caught by Middlesbrough goalkeeper Mark
Schwarzer.


The visitors started the second-half brightly as Downing and
Brazilian Fabio Rochemback fired shots narrowly wide of Pollitt's
goal.


Wigan's first chance of the half fell to forward Aghahowa but the
Nigerian snatched at Taylor's free-kick and his weak effort was
caught by Schwarzer.


Latics winger Valencia received the ball six yards out in the
60th minute but was too close to Schwarzer and the Australian
stopper smothered the opportunity.


Wigan boss Jewell was urging his men forward but his players
seemed less enthusiastic and were limited to long-range efforts.


The home team pushed in desperation for the crucial equaliser and
were presented with a glorious opportunity in the 83rd minute.


Former Everton defender David Unsworth charged down the wing and
delivered a perfect cross, but striker Caleb Folan chose to
cushion his header and his weak effort was easily saved by
Schwarzer.


Heskey lashed an effort over the bar from the edge of the penalty
area in the last minute but the home team's efforts were in vain
and they now find themselves favourites for the drop.

