

Armed men kidnapped a Briton from an oil rig in southern Nigeria
at the end of a week of politically-motivated abductions of
foreigners, industry and diplomatic sources said Saturday.


"We can confirm a British national was kidnapped overnight in the
Niger Delta," a diplomat told AFP, adding that he could not
release further details.


"A group attacked Trident 8," said Guy Cantwell, a spokesman for
Transocean Inc., referring to a Transocean rig drilling for
Conoil off Brass, in the southern Bayelsa state.


Cantwell confirmed that one of the company's subcontractors was
seized but said the company would not speculate on the identity
of the attackers.


No group has claimed responsibility.


"Another 23 people are on the rig and are safe. The rig is also
safe," Cantwell told AFP from Transocean's Houston, Texas
headquarters. He said later that the 23 had been brought ashore.


A support vessel for Trident 8 came under attack two weeks ago in
an incident where three Nigerians were kidnapped and six people
injured, security sources said.


After a temporary lull in the kidnapping of foreigners during
elections in April, such attacks are once again on the rise.


In the past week alone, six foreigners were seized Tuesday by the
most high- profile militant group operating in the region, the
Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND).


On Thursday a total of 20 foreigners were seized by different
armed groups in three separate incidents but the eight taken in
the attack claimed by MEND were later released the same day.


MEND is the best-organised, best-equipped and most media-savvy of
the militant groups in the region, industry and security sources
say.


When the group claimed responsibility for Tuesday's offshore
attack it promised to shame the government of outgoing President
Olusegun Obasanjo, who is stepping down after serving two terms.


"We promised to give the present Nigerian administration a
shameful send-off. This attack is one in a series intended to
embarrass the ... regime," a MEND spokesman said in an e-mail.


"It is also a warning to the incoming government which we view as
an extension of the present. We will continue with our struggle
for justice until we achieve all our goals without exception," he
said.


The MEND claims to be fighting for a larger local share of
Nigeria's oil bounty.


The spokesman's e-mail said the six men seized Tuesday would be
released unconditionally on May 30, once Obasanjo has handed over
to his successor, as long as no effort was made to secure their
release.


It also warned of future attacks on Shell facilities in the
region.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter, accounting for
a daily output of some 2.6 million barrels.


The country is currently losing 600,000 bpd of that total owing
to unrest in the delta.


The attacks on oil facilities and employees are carried out by a
mixture of militants who claim to be fighting to get a larger
share of the country's oil resources for local people and a
plethora of armed gangs who copy the militant attacks purely to
get ransom money.

