

Portuguese police said on Saturday they were tracking a suspect
in the kidnapping of a three-year-old British girl who
disappeared from her holiday hotel room in the Algarve.


"We have details that corroborate the kidnapping theory," deputy
police chief Guilhermino Encarnacao told journalists. "I am
calling on the abductor to return the girl."


It was the first time police confirmed that Madeleine McCann had
been kidnapped since she disappeared on Thursday night.


Police, who have interviewed more than 30 people, said they had a
photofit image of the suspect, but declined to release it for now
to avoid endangering the girl, who investigators believe is still
in Portugal.


British experts were also joining Portuguese police Saturday in
the search for the girl, and her parents had earlier appealed for
her safe return.


Many of Saturday's Portuguese newspapers carried pictures of the
little girl on their front pages, along with a message from her
distraught parents Gerry and Kate McCann.


"We cannot describe the anguish and despair we are feeling," they
said in a statement read to reporters late Friday.


They urged anyone with information about her disappearance to
contact Portuguese authorities.


Police were joined Friday by firefighters and maritime police,
backed up by a helicopter, as well as locals and tourists, in the
search for the missing child.


Her parents, both doctors aged 38 from near Leicester in the
English Midlands, said they had left her asleep with her two-
year-old twin sister and bother at the resort near the village of
Praia da Luz in the Algarve on Thursday evening.


They had checked back regularly from the nearby restaurant, and
when they returned at around 10 p.m. (2000 GMT) they discovered
their daughter missing and the door of the room and a window
open.


Gill Renwick, a family friend, told British television channel
GMTV Friday that her parents were certain she had been abducted.
"They were just watching the hotel room and going back every
half-hour."


"She's obviously been taken as she couldn't have gone out on her
own and the shutters had been forced open," she said.


Britain's ambassador to Portugal John Buck has gone to the area
to help the girls' parents, the embassy said.

