

Major League Baseball players have been asked to appear before a
special commission investigating steroid use in the sport, probe
chairman George Mitchell told the New York Times.


The newspaper reported Saturday that the former US senator, asked
14 months ago by the league to investigate doping in baseball,
said he expects to soon speak with current and former players and
finish the probe in several months.


"We expect to meet soon with the players whose interviews we have
requested," Mitchell said in an e-mail exchange with the
newspaper.


"I anticipate issuing a report of my findings and recommendations
to the commissioner and he has agreed thatthe report will be made
available to the public."


Mitchell did not disclose how many players he had sent letters
requesting interviews, but the newspaper, citing unnamed sources,
said at least 36 former and current players were being sought by
the panel.


Many players are expected to reject the request and Mitchell has
no subpoena powers to compel responses, nor does Major League
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig have the power to punish players
who refuse to talk.


But the move to interview players could spark turmoil in a season
barely a month old but already nagged by the spectre of doping.


Barry Bonds, the San Francisco Giants outfielder whose trainer
was among five men convicted in the BALCO steroid scandal, is not
expected to be asked to meet with the panel soon, a person
briefed on the probe told the newspaper.


Bonds, only 13 home runs shy of breaking Hank Aaron's all-time US
homer mark, has been nagged by accusations of doping and is being
investigated by a federal grand jury of perjury and tax charges.


Bonds has denied knowingly taking any banned performance-
enhancing substances and Major League Baseball did not test for
steroids during much of Bonds' career.


Michael Rains, Bonds' attorney, told the Times that his client
would decline to speak with the Mitchell panel if asked to do so
with the risk of self- incrimination and if the federal
investigation into Bonds is ended.


"I told my client, 'There's not a chance in the world you will
make a statement directly to the government or indirectly through
the Mitchell commission unless the federal government gets off
your back," Rains told the Times.


Mitchell would not say if he was using the same players named by
a former new York Mets clubhouse assistant, Kirk Radomski, who
last week pleaded guilty to selling drugs to Major League
Baseball players.


Radomski admitted selling steroids, human growth hormone,
amphetamines and other drugs to major leagues from 1995 through
2005 and as part of a plea deal named at least 36 current and
former major leaguers he supplied in addition to agreeing to
cooperate with the Mitchell inquiry.


Radomski also testified to the Bonds grand jury, the newspaper
reported.


Mitchell has sought medical records from major league clubs but
privacy laws and union objections have kept teams and the panel
from agreeing on releasing such information.

