

Protests in favour of a secular state were held in Turkey on
Saturday, a day ahead of voting in parliament on whether to name
a former Islamist as the country's new president.


More than 50,000 demonstrators gathered in the small western city
of Manisa, according to television reports, with protesters
denouncing the governing Justice and Development party (AKP) and
calling for Turkey to remain secular.


The party's presidential candidate, Foreign Minister Abdullah
Gul, narrowly missed being elected president on April 27 and
faces a new vote in parliament on Sunday.


The prospect of an AKP president has alarmed secularists, with
more than a million people rallying in Istanbul last weekend
following a similar demonstration in Ankara on April 14.


"Our message is clear: We are telling Gul not to be a candidate,"
one protester said.


Demonstrators chose Manisa because parliament speaker Bulent
Arinc, also an influential AKP member, represents the area. Arinc
had provoked controversy by declaring that the next president
should be a "believer."


Protests were also held in northwestern Canakkale and in Marmaris
in the southwest. Further demonstrations have been scheduled for
May 13 in Izmir, Turkey's third-largest city.


Gul's candidacy has sparked controversy between Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government and the country's secular army,
which has toppled four governments in as many decades.


After last week's parliament vote on Gul's candidacy, the army
issued a statement accusing Erdogan's government of tolerating
rising Islamist activity and threatening action.


The government responded equally harshly, calling the army to
order.


The crisis forced Erdogan to bow to opposition calls for early
general elections. Parliament on Thursday approved bringing the
polls forward to July 22 from November.


The new strategy followed a Constitutional Court decision Tuesday
to annul the first-round parliamentary vote on the new president
amid widespread secular opposition to Gul, the sole candidate.


Gul is not likely to receive the necessary votes in parliament on
Sunday, with the opposition having announced it will boycott and
a two-thirds vote needed.


With that in mind, the AKP on Friday moved to rush a major reform
package through parliament that would see the president elected
by popular vote and not by parliament.

