

China's Olympic champion Liu Xiang maintained his perfect record
at the Japan Grand Prix on Saturday in what was effectively a
dress rehearsal for the world championships later this year.


The Athens Olympic gold medallist, the winner here in the past
three years, clocked 13.14 seconds in the 110m hurdles in his
first outdoor race of the season.


Teammate Shi Dongpeng, who lost to Liu in the Asian Games in Doha
in December, came second in his personal best of 13.24.


"I'm very satisfied with the time in my first outdoor race of the
season. Further more, Shi Dongpeng set his personal best. I'm
really happy about it. We both want to finish in the top eight in
the world championships," said Liu.


The world championships, the last major athletics event before
the Beijing Olympics in 2008, will be held at the same stadium
here in August.


"I didn't do special training for this race, because there were
not big rivals, so I was quite sure that I would win if I could
run my usual race. I set a personal best of 7.42 in Germany this
season, so I'm quite confident," he said, referring to the indoor
60m hurdles.


"This race is a preparation race for the world championships in
August and my biggest goal of the year is to win the gold medal,"
added the 23-year-old world record holder.


Meanwhile, world 400m hurdles champion Bershawn Jackson repeated
his performance from the Helsinki championships by clocking 48.13
to beat fellow American world silver medallist James Carter and
bronze medallist Tamesue Dai of Japan.


"I think I did well at this point, feeling good, confident now,"
said Jackson. "We can run very fast as it's good conditions and
it is big enough to have the world championships this summer."


Without sprint great Maurice Greene who pulled out after failing
to recover from a dental operation, Shingo Suetsugu gave
something to cheer up local fans by winning the men's 100m.


Suetsugu, a two-time Asian Games 200m gold medallist, timed 10.23
to beat Joshua Ross of Australia into second in 10.37 and fellow
Japanese Nobuharu Asahara into third in 10.38.


"I was not in good condition, but it didn't bother me. The time
was not good enough for me to be satisfied, but I really enjoyed
the race," said Suetsugu.


"My goal is to reach the final at the world championships. It
fired me up today. I'm really glad to win the race."


The women's 100m was won by Cydonie Mothersill of the Cayman
Islands, who clocked 11.33 to beat world and Olympic champion
Lauryn Williams of the United States and Crystal Attenborough of
Australia.

