

A small bomb exploded in the Thai capital Bangkok late Saturday
near the former headquarters of deposed premier Thaksin
Shinawatra's political party, slightly injuring one man, police
said.


The bomb went off inside a phone booth, injuring the hand of a 22
-year-old man trying to make a call, said Colonel Supisan
Bhakdinarunat, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Police
Department.


"The aim of the bomb appeared to be to create chaos, not to kill
people," Lieutenant General Adisorn Noncee, the head of the
Metropolitan Police, told local television.


The blast occurred near the former headquarters of Thaksin's Thai
Rak Thai (Thais Love Thais) party.


Thaksin was ousted by the military in a September coup. He was in
New York when the army overthrew his twice-elected government and
has remained abroad since the putsch.


Police said earlier Saturday that at least nine people, including
three children, were killed in a bomb blast and attacks by
suspected Islamic rebels in Thailand's restive Muslim-majority
south.


A 15-kilogram (nine-pound) bomb hidden under a bridge went off
late Saturday, killing a two-year-old Muslim girl and two border
patrol officers in Yala, one of three violence-torn southern
provinces bordering Malaysia.


At least six other people were killed Friday and Saturday in
separate attacks in the province, police said. The attacks
included shootings and a man who was hacked to death in public
view.


Last month a small bomb exploded in a telephone booth in front of
a Bangkok shopping centre, but did not cause any injuries.


Security was tightened around the capital after coordinated
blasts on New Year's Eve killed three and wounded more than 40.


Those attacks were followed in February by an arson and bombing
spree across the three insurgency-hit, mainly-Muslim southern
provinces.


The incidents left nine dead and 44 injured and were blamed on
Islamic separatists.


More than 2,100 people have been killed in the ongoing insurgency
in the provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani.


They were once an autonomous sultanate, until the region was
annexed by mainly Buddhist Thailand a century ago. Separatist
unrest has erupted periodically ever since.


The military-backed government, which came to power after a
September coup, has made peace-building efforts in a bid to rein
in the unrest, but violence has escalated in the last six months.

