

Serb Novak Djokovic surged into his fourth final of a
breakthrough season on Saturday with a 7-5, 6-1 defeat of second
seed Tommy Robredo at the Estoril Open.


The third seed found a decisive reserve of form after taking more
than two and a half hours to win the day before, improving his
career record over the 25-year- old Spaniard to 3-1.


The teenaged winner, who turns 20 later this month, will play for
his third title of 2007 when he faces one of two Frenchmen, fifth
seed Richard Gasquet or Paul-Henri Mathieu.


Djokovic currently stands a career-best fifth in the world after
winning titles in January at Adelaide and in March at the Miami
Masters. He also lost the Indian Wells final two months ago to
Rafael Nadal.


Djokovic, now 30-6 on the season, recovered from an early break
in the first set, levelling at five games each against world
number seven Robredo.


After Robredo saved a set point in the 12th game, Djokovic nosed
over the line to win the set after 48 minutes.


The Serb continued his momentum to earn a 3-1 lead in the second,
where two breaks were enough to see him through.


"I didn't sleep so well last night," said Djokovic. "And I was
afraid I would not recover well. But I felt good during the warm-
up and everything went fine in the match.


"After Robredo served for the set (5-4 in the first) and was
broken, it all changed for me. I played some good shots in that
game.


"I had to be aggressive and patient, wait for my opportunities.
I'm happy I managed to pull up well physically.


"Whoever I meet in the final will be tough."


In the women's event, former Australian and US Open junior
champion Viktoria Azarenka will face off in her first WTA-level
final against German Greta Arn, who is 11 years her senior.


Belarus-born Azarenka, 17, who trains in the desert heat of
Scottsdale, Arizona, upset third-seed Lucie Safarova 6-4, 6-0,
the champion here in 2005.


Arn, ranked 176th to the 68th of Azarenka, booked her place in
the title match with a 7-6 (7/0), 6-2 victory over Spain's Nuria
Llagostera.


"I'm in a dream, this is fantasy," said Azarenka, who has shown
form this season with third-round placings at the Australian
Open, Indian Wells and Miami.


"I'm enjoying this a lot. I didn't play so well on clay last
season, but I've improved my game a lot now."

