

In a side arena of the Athens Olympic Stadium, teenage
basketballers from European powerhouses such as Serbia, Russia
and Greece faced off on Saturday under the watchful eye of
American talent scouts, hungry for a nod of approval from NBA
teams.


Once a lost cause, the world's most renowned basketball league is
no longer out of reach for European players, several of whom have
been scrutinised by NBA talent-hunters during this weekend's
Euroleague Final Four, the European championship finals in
Athens.


Among NBA prospects are Dimitris Diamantidis, the long-armed
point guard of Greek champions Panathinaikos Athens, and Luis
Scola, the bullish power forward of Spain's Tau Ceramica who is
the Euroleague's all-time leading scorer.


"The level of basketball has increased in the rest of the world,
especially Europe, (and) they're closing the gap with the NBA,"
says Johnny Rogers, an American forward who played with the
Sacramento Kings and Cleveland Cavaliers in 1986-88 before
crossing the Atlantic to play in Spain, Italy and Greece.


When NBA professionals first banded together as the US Dream Team
in 1992, they easily swatted aside all opposition at the
Barcelona Olympics, and successor teams continued to dominate for
years thereafter.


But then the Americans were dealt a stunning blow by Argentina in
the 2002 World Championships in Indianapolis, subsequently lost
to Yugoslavia and Spain as well and finished sixth.


The US squad would be dealt three more defeats by Puerto Rico,
Argentina and Lithuania in the 2004 Olympics in Athens, and would
fall to the Greeks in the semi-final of the 2006 World
Championships in Japan.


In the wake of successes at international level, European players
- who had barely left a mark on the NBA a decade ago - have now
begun to turn heads in the American league.


The majority of NBA teams currently have at least one European on
their roster, some of whom have evolved into fully-fledged team
stars.


The Sacramento Kings' top scorer and rebounder is Dirk Nowitzky,
a German who averaged 24.6 points and 8.9 rebounds per game in
the regular season.


A seven-foot Spaniard, Pau Gasol, similarly led the Memphis
Grizzlies with 20.8 points and 9.8 rebounds per game, while San
Antonio's second leading scorer and top passer, Tony Parker, grew
up in France.


"The number of Europeans in the NBA will continue to increase,"
says   Rogers, noting that when it comes to playing in the
world's most renowned basketball league, many players from the
Old Continent come better prepared than US college draft picks.


"The younger players in Europe are better prepared than a college
player because they're playing against top talent," he told AFP.
"Players in Europe are playing against men, guys in college are
playing against boys."


The Euroleague's most successful coach, Panathinaikos Athens
Zeljko Obradovic echoes that thought.


"Without question, if you ask any one of us coaches, any player,
how we work over here, it's a different thing," he said. "Over
here, it's real competition, because we teach our players to
compete in every practice, in every game. Why do NBA coaches like
to take European players? Because they know that they have
everything and are ready to help (their teams)."


In fact, the lure of the NBA has become so great for some
European youngsters that they leave for the States before their
skills have really evolved, other experts argue.


"Some players go to the NBA without having a good career in
Europe, with their talent not at full potential," said Bozidar
Malkovic, the coach of Spanish Euroleague semi-finalists Tau
Ceramica and a five-time Final Four veteran.


"They don't enjoy themselves and instead leave too early, and
it's a shame. It is a problem that European basketball and the
NBA must solve," he said.

