

Captain Victor Matfield hailed his "awesome" Northern Bulls
heroes after the South Africans humiliated Queensland Reds of
Australia 92-3 to finish second in the Super 14 mini-league.


The record win in the southern hemisphere inter-provincial
championship  secured a home semi-final for the Pretoria
franchise next weekend against  title holders Canterbury
Crusaders of New Zealand.


On a great day for South Africa, Coastal Sharks topped the table
after winning 36-10 at compatriots Western Stormers and they will
host Auckland  Blues of New Zealand in Durban.


The Sharks accumulated 45 points from 13 matches and it took
points difference to separate the Bulls (plus 165), Crusaders
(plus 147) and Blues (plus 120) after they all finished with 42
points.


Bulls went into their match against bottom-of-the-table Reds
needing a win to finish fourth, a 45-point victory plus a bonus
point to finish third and a 72-point triumph plus a bonus point
to finish second.


The teams in third and fourth positions play away and Matfield
said it was decided on the eve of the final pool match that they
would go for broke in a bid to remain at their Loftus Versfeld
fortress.


"This was a truly awesome performance. Last Monday we set our
sights on winning by 45 points and finishing third, but by Friday
we changed our minds and felt a 72-point winning margin was
within our grasp," said Matfield.


"It all began with the basics, the scrums, lineouts and tackling.
After that our attacking mindset came into play and we patiently
worked our way to the massive points total.


"Since returning from Australasia we have performed really well
to beat the Stormers, Golden Lions and Blues, but nothing comes
close to what we achieved tonight. It was awesome, truly
awesome."


However, the long-serving Springbok lock conceded that
confronting a Crusaders squad packed with All Blacks stars will
be an entirely different  ball game.


"The Crusaders have been the best team in the competition during
the past five seasons and while beating them is going to be very
difficult, anything is possible with 50,000 supporters backing
us."


Stunned Reds skipper and loose forward David Croft offered no
excuses and few words after being on the wrong end of a thrashing
that surpassed the 96-19 hiding the Crusaders gave the Australian
Waratahs five years ago.


"I'm physically sick and so are all the other players. We
certainly have no excuses to offer. What can I say? We'll fly
home, rest, regroup and hopefully improve next season."


Wing Bryan Habana, flanker Wikus van Heerden, replacement Derick
Kuun and number eight Pierre Spies scored two tries each and
flanker Pedrie Wannenburg, hooker Gary Botha, centre Wynand
Oliver and replacements Fourie du Preez and Jaco van der
Westhuyzen one.


Flyhalf Derick Hougaard kicked 11 conversions and a penalty and
replacement Morne Steyn added the points to the final try from
ex-Bok Van der Westhuyzen in stoppage time.


The Reds actually struck first with fullback Clinton Schifcofske
kicking a second-minute penalty to establish a lead that lasted
120 seconds before  Habana went over and the gates of hell opened
for the visitors.


When Botha crossed the tryline afer 26 minutes the Bulls had the
bonus point for scoring four and by half-time the lead was 38-3
despite knock-ons that cost Matfield and Habana seemingly certain
scores.


As time ticked away in the second half so the score mounted with
64 points on the board after 61 minutes, and a Kuun try and
Hougaard conversion took the Bulls beyond the required 72-point
winning margin with 10 minutes left.

