

Former Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed will return
home on Monday, more than a week after the military-backed
government backtracked on plans to exile her, a top party
official said.


Hasina, leader of the opposition Awami League party, would arrive
in the capital Dhaka at 4:00 pm (1100 GMT) Monday on an Itihad
Airlines flight from London, party general secretary Abdul Jalil
said.


"The Awami League working committee members will be at the
airport to receive her. We hope the government will not arrest
her," he said Saturday.


Hasina, leader of the 19-party opposition alliance and who served
as prime minister between 1996-2001, is facing charges of murder
and extortion.


Police had suspended the arrest warrant against her pending
further investigation into the murder charge. But they said she
could still be arrested in an extortion case filed by the
Bangladeshi head of a Malaysian company.


Last Wednesday, the government said it was lifting restrictions
on her return, backtracking on plans to exile her amid local and
international pressure.


The government had blocked Hasina's return from abroad on April
18, saying she was a national security threat, and she was later
refused permission to board a British Airways flight when she
attempted to return home.


Bangladesh has been ruled by a military-backed government since
January when the country's president declared a state of
emergency and cancelled elections slated for January 22.


The new government launched a nationwide crackdown on graft,
arresting more than 50 top politicians of the two main parties
led by Hasina and her bitter rival, Khaleda Zia.


Authorities had been trying to force Zia and Sheikh Hasina into
exile as part of a crackdown on political corruption, accusing
both of years of misrule.


The government has vowed to clean up politics and carry out
sweeping electoral reforms before setting a new date for
elections. Last month, the head of the government pledged polls
would be held before the end of 2008.

