

French voters among the tens of thousands registered in the
Americas went to the ballots Saturday, a day before the decisive
round of the hard-fought presidential election opens in their
home country.


The battle between right winger Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist
opponent Segolene Royal to replace President Jacques Chirac has
strongly mobilized the overseas vote, observers said. Turnout
soared and the number registered to vote more than doubled from
2002.


"There is a real electoral dynamic which has been created, with a
strong turnout" in the first round, said Francois Lubrina of the
Assembly of French People Abroad (AFE), an official body
representing French expatriates.


She added however that turnout may be lower among overseas-based
voters in the second round, in which Sarkozy is the clear
favorite -- a view shared by voters on the ground.


"There will be more abstentions because the game's already over,"
said Gerard Giraud, a voter who has lived in Quebec for 35 years.


Some 175,000 French voters are registered on the American
continent, including 74,000 in the United States and 46,000 in
Canada. There are some 820,000 overseas French registered
worldwide.


The first polling booths opened Saturday in the tiny French
island territory of Saint Pierre and Miquelon off the Canadian
coast.


Polls then opened at 8:00 am (1200 GMT) in Montreal, the biggest
city in the French-speaking province of Quebec, and in major
cities in the eastern United States.


In Latin America, voting stations opened at 1100 GMT including
ones in Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil, consular sources said.


Polling began a day early across the Atlantic so that voting
would not take place when results in France were already being
announced on Sunday.


Montreal is the biggest hub for French voters outside France,
with 31,400 registered there. Around 100 people queued outside
the polling station in the Outremont neighborhood when it opened
Saturday morning.


Two police cars waited outside the voting station, after the
local Montreal office of Sarkozy's UMP party was vandalized ahead
of the second round.


Unlike French voters in France and the United States, those in
Canada showed more support for Royal in the first round, with
34.6 percent voting for her against 31.8 percent for Sarkozy.


In the national capital Washington, DC, around 200 people were
queuing at opening time outside the French embassy, where 8,400
voters are registered.


In New York City, "everything is going smoothly and I'm told
there are more people than two weeks ago" in the first round,
said Jean Lachaud, an official of the AFE.

