

Top challengers BMW Oracle of the United States and Italy's Luna
Rossa formally clinched the first semi-final berths at the Louis
Vuitton Cup off Valencia on Saturday as they edged toward their
dream of facing defending America's Cup champion Alinghi.


Oracle, 40sec ahead at the first mark, scored an emphatic victory
by 1min 28sec at the final Delta mark over Areva Challenge of
France, who cannot now catch fourth-placed Spaniards Desafio
after the latter defeated Team Shosholoza of South Africa by
47sec after an initially tight contest.


Emirates Team New Zealand, who featured British yachting heroine
Ellen MacArthur as their non-participating 18th crew member
against United Internet Team Germany, also duly picked up two
more points, winning by 2min 07sec to cement their third place.


French actor Jean-Marc Barre experienced the contest first hand
on board Areva but it was a sad occasion as defeat ensured the
Gallic challenger would not go forward to the last four as the
Americans stormed to the finish to stay as the only unbeaten side
in the second round robin series.


Italy's Mascalzone, forced to replay its fourth flight match
against Desafio later Saturday after illegal backstay use in
Wednesday's win over the Spanish boat, tore through their meeting
with fading tailenders China Team to stay in the hunt.


Having established a 64sec lead at the opening mark, the Italians
swept home with a 2:22 advantage to close within two points of
Swedes Victory Challenge, who earlier complained about the jury
decision to call for a replay between the former and Desafio,
judging the Spaniards' defeat should have stood.


Instead, Desafio, three points clear of the Swedes going into the
rematch and five ahead of the Italians after their success over
Shosholoza, have the chance to wrap up another win, which would
all but clinch fourth spot.


Against Desafio, the South Africans started off by closing right
in on their rivals' starboard hip to lead by 5sec at the top mark
and for a while it was a true dogfight before the Spanish fought
back to move 13sec ahead at the delta gate, getting into their
stride as the spinnaker filled.


Both tacked over onto starboard before the South Africans
wriggled back over to port in a bid to extract themselves but it
was all to no avail and holes in their spinnaker did not help
their cause.


Luna Rossa, sharing the top of the leaderboard with BWM Oracle at
the start of the day a point clear of the Kiwis and six clear of
Desafio, took early control over compatriots +39 Challenge, who
were hit with a penalty as their rivals ultimately cruised to a
1:04 win.


After Thursday's storms, which forced double flight duty on
Friday, Saturday saw good, light conditions with light northerly
to west winds peaking at nine knots and plenty of sun was
forecast for Sunday's racing.

