

Former champions Australia opened their bid to take back the
Sultan Azlan Shah Cup with a 1-0 victory over India here on
Saturday.


A solitary strike by Edward Ockenden, his first for the national
team, in the 50th minute proved enough to take the match for the
Aussies, who endured hot, humid conditions to notch their three
points at the Azlan Shah Stadium.


But the world number two team had to endure some close moments in
the first half with the Indians, parading a number of youngsters,
taking several good scoring chances.


Australian coach Colin Batch said they had expected a tough fight
in the Group A match.


"For us to have got off with a win in the opening match is a good
turn. We need to build on it and to go on from there. We did have
several young players and Fergus Kavanagh had his first senior
team outing," he said.


"It is pleasing the way they took the match under difficult
circumstances. But they need to learn to adapt to the conditions
in international matches," he added.


India had the first real look at the goal, with Rajpal Singh
providing the edge on the left flank. But his three goal-bound
crosses from the 10th minute found no takers.


India also won a penalty corner in the 10th minute, but Harpal
Singh's hit was saved by goalkeeper Stephen Lambert.


In the second half, the Australians stepped up a gear and they
had a penalty corner within five minutes in the second half. But
Robert Hammond's flick was saved by goalkeeper Baljit Singh.


Ockenden provided the decisive strike in the 50th minute but
despite two penalty corners the Australians failed to increase
their lead.


Indian coach Joaquim Carvalho said they were happy to have
matched the Australians.


"I'm extremely pleased with the players' performance as this
showed that our young players have what it takes to play the big
teams. We need to keep it up and this display will give us
confidence for the coming matches," he said.


Australia has been the most successful team at the tournament,
winning in 1983, 1998, 2004 and 2005, and is the highest ranked
outfit in Ipoh, in Malaysia's north.


South Korea also scored a 1-0 win over Canada in the opening
Group B match.


Jeong Yun-sang flicked the goal home in the 44th minute from a
penalty corner.


Malaysia and Pakistan drew 2-2 in an exciting game of attacking
display in the other match from the same group.


Malaysia scored both their goals in the seventh and 29th minutes
through Zulkifli Rejab and Ismail Abu respectively, while Ullah
Ehsan and Imran Warsi replied for Pakistan in the 13th and 42nd
minutes.


Australia will play Argentina on Sunday while Malaysia will take
on Canada. The third match is between India and China.

