

Four suicide bombings struck Afghanistan Saturday, killing two
policemen, as military officials announced more than 10 Taliban
commanders were killed in major battles a week ago.


One of the commanders killed was to believed have been among five
Taliban freed from Afghan jails last month in exchange for an
Italian hostage, the US-led coalition said, citing intelligence
reports.


"Two other senior Taliban commanders, believed to have been
killed in the battles, were known enemies of the Afghan
government for the past three years," it said.


A senior Afghan defence ministry official agreed with the
statement about the April 27 and 29 fighting in the western
province of Herat.


"A big number of senior Taliban commanders were among those
killed," he said on condition of anonymity. "A Taliban commander
swapped for the Italian journalist was also killed."


The late-March swap was widely condemned with critics saying it
could result in copy-cat kidnappings. Less than a week later an
Afghan medical team was snatched; two French aid workers and
three Afghans were captured April 3.


In both cases, the Taliban said it wanted some of its prisoners
to be freed in exchange for the hostages. It has also demanded
the withdrawal of French troops in Afghanistan for the release of
the French group.


The militants released one of the French hostages a week ago; on
Saturday it said it would decide on the fate of the Frenchman and
his colleagues after France's May 6 presidential election.


The Herat battles involved US Special Forces, other coalition
soldiers and Afghan troops.


The coalition said it killed 136 Taliban -- one of the biggest
tolls in months -- but a series of investigations prompted by
local claims has found that around 50 civilians, including women
and children, were among the dead.


Under pressure after a string of incidents involving civilian
casualties, the coalition is investigating the claims while
pointing out that the Taliban are known to use civilians as human
shields.


It said Saturday most of the senior Taliban commanders and sub-
commanders believed killed in Herat's Shindand appeared to have
entered the area as reinforcements after the first battle, which
was sparked by a Taliban attack.


The insurgents carried out four suicide bombings in Afghanistan
Saturday, but most were botched.


Two policemen were killed in the southern province of Helmand
when a suicide bomber detonated explosives strapped to his body
near a patrol, provincial police said.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahamdi said the attack "was carried out
by one of our devoted mujahedin (holy fighters)."


Another bombing near a US-led coalition convoy in the
southeastern province of Paktika killed only the attacker; two
policemen were wounded in one in neighbouring Paktia, provincial
officials said.


In the western province of Farah, a man who had been trailed by
security forces for days detonated a car bomb as police moved in
to arrest him, a police commander said.


There have been nearly 50 suicide bombings across the country
this year. Taliban-linked unrest has left more than 1,000 people
dead, according to an AFP tally based on reports.

