

Top challengers BMW Oracle and Luna Rossa formally clinched the
first semi-final berths for the Louis Vuitton Cup here Saturday
to edge toward their dream of facing defending America's Cup
champion Alinghi.


Emirates Team New Zealand, who featured British yachting heroine
Ellen MacArthur as their non-participating 18th crew member
against United Internet Team Germany, picked up two more points,
winning by 2min 07 to cement their third place.


Spain's Desafio have one oar in the last four after a positively
productive day which saw them first beat South Africa's
Shosholoza and then beat Mascalzone of Italy in a rematch of
flight four which moved them five points clear of Sweden's
Victory Challenge.


The Italians had won Wednesday's encounter but were penalised for
an infringement in using their backstay during the race against
America's Cup Class rules.


Victory Challenge maintained that the win should have stood,
which would have knocked back Desafio's charge to the semis, but
their rematch win all but sends the hosts through.


Against Shosholoza, Desafio had to fight hard to move 13sec ahead
at the delta gate, getting into their stride as the spinnaker
filled.


Both tacked over onto starboard before the South Africans
wriggled back over to port in a bid to extract themselves but it
was all to no avail and holes in their spinnaker did not help
their cause.


Then the Spanish came back in the downwind section to see off
Mascalzone, who had thrashed China Team in morning action, by
35sec.


BMW Oracle, of the United States, earlier scored an emphatic
victory by 1min 28 at the final Delta mark over Areva Challenge
of France, who saw their lingering chance of progress evaporate.


French actor Jean-Marc Barre experienced the contest first hand
on board Areva but it was a sad occasion as defeat ensured the
Gallic challenger would not go forward to the last four as the
Americans stormed to the finish to remain the only unbeaten side
in the second round robin series.


Italian outfit Luna Rossa, sharing the top of the leaderboard
with BWM Oracle at the start of the day a point clear of the
Kiwis and six clear of Desafio, took early control over
compatriots +39 Challenge, who were hit with a penalty as their
rivals ultimately cruised to a 1:04 win.


The top four teams following this second round-robin stage will
go through to the Louis Vuitton Cup semifinals from May 14-24.


After Thursday's storms, which forced double flight duty on
Friday, Saturday saw good, light conditions with light northerly
to west winds peaking at nine knots and plenty of sun was
forecast for Sunday's racing.

