

Real Madrid coach Fabio Capello has refused to be drawn into the
controversy surrounding a decision which allows David Beckham to
play against Sevilla on Sunday.


The Spanish football association's competitions committee
controversially decided on Thursday to cancel the yellow card
that Beckham had picked up during Real's 4-1 win at Athletic
Bilbao last Sunday.


The booking, for not retreating fast enough at a free kick, was
Beckham's 10th of the season and should have led to a one-match
suspension.


"I'm happy he can play. He's a player who is very important to
Real Madrid," Capello said at a press conference Saturday,
refusing to be drawn further on the subject.


Real Madrid are currently third in La Liga and started the
weekend one point behind Sevilla and two adrift of league leaders
Barcelona, who play at relegation-threatened Real Sociedad later
on Saturday.


Nevertheless, many other figures in Spanish first division
football have had more than Capello to say on the decision.


"In European football the rules are serious but in Spain it is a
joke," Sevilla coach Juande Ramos told reporters Friday after the
decision to reprieve the former England captain.


"Everyone else has to obey the rules so I don't understand why
Real Madrid don't have to do the same. Justice should be fair and
for everybody, and there shouldn't be exceptions."


"But with or without Beckham, we are going to win on Sunday,"
blustered Sevilla president Jose Maria Del Nido.


"I don't understand why they cancelled his yellow card. I only
hope they treat us the same when we have something similar happen
to us," added Deportivo La Coruna coach Joaquin Caparros.


"It's a bit unusual," commented Barcelona defender Thiago Motta.


Beckham's presence against Sevilla could be just the boost that
Real need to maintain their bid to snatch the league title from
under the noses of their bitter rivals and reigning champions
Barcelona.


After spending six weeks on the sidelines following a knee injury
in March, Beckham has made a crucial contribution in both matches
since returning to the team, including firing in free kicks which
have led to a goal in each game.


Real have not won a major title since Beckham arrived in the
summer of 2003 and La Liga represents his last chance of getting
an honour before he leaves the Spanish capital to join Los
Angeles Galaxy at the end of June.

