

A former Philippine army colonel accused of plotting to overthrow
President Gloria Arroyo has given her his personal assurance he
will not try to oust her and sought her help with the charges,
the presidential palace said Saturday.


Arroyo met Gregorio Honasan, popularly known as "Gringo", on
Thursday at his request, presidential spokesman Ignacio Bunye
said.


During the meeting, "Honasan disavowed any intentions to
overthrow the government and he also said so in a letter which he
personally handed to the president," Bunye said.


Bunye said Honasan had "sought an audience with the president in
connection with the rebellion case against him," following
reports heavier charges may be levelled against him.


Honasan, who is running for Senate in the congressional polls on
May 14, is accused of planning two attempts to overthrow Arroyo
in 2003 and 2006.


He has already been indicted for the crime of coup d'etat, which
is punishable by life imprisonment, for his alleged role in a
July 2003 mutiny by some 300 soldiers led by a cabal of junior
military officers.


Bunye said the president had responded by saying Honasan should
"follow the process and prove your innocence in court."


Honasan, who served as a senator from 1995 to 2004, is also under
investigation for allegedly masterminding a February 2006 plot by
several military officers to withdraw support for Arroyo, their
commander-in-chief.


Honasan, then a colonel, was part of a cabal of junior officers
who helped spark a popular revolt that toppled then-dictator
Ferdinand Marcos in 1986 and which installed opposition leader
Corazon Aquino, in his place.


He later turned on Aquino, leading several bloody coup attempts
against her.


Honasan was granted amnesty by Fidel Ramos when he was elected
president in 1992.


He is free on bail and running as an independent candidate for
the Senate while facing charges over the alleged coup attempts.
However if convicted, he will not be able to serve in the
legislature.

