

Liverpool's come-down from reaching their second Champions League
final in three years was steep enough for Fulham to claim a 1-0
win which virtually guarantees their Premiership survival.


United States international Clint Dempsey scored the crucial goal
at Craven Cottage, his first strike since being signed for 1.5
million pounds by former manager Chris Coleman in January.


Introduced as a second half substitute, the American found the
perfect time to open his account in London, firing home on 69
minutes after good build up play with Liam Rosenior.


The result means Fulham are now on 39 points, and are almost
guaranteed a place in the Premiership next season.


Liverpool made nine changes from the side which beat Chelsea in
the Champions League in midweek. Goalkeeper Jose Reina and
midfield player Jermaine Pennant were the only players to keep
their place as manager Rafael Benitez rested key stars ahead of
their European final against AC Milan on May 23.


Fulham knew this would be an opportunity to take advantage of a
weakened Liverpool side, and Italian Vincenzo Montella returned
to the starting line-up to partner Brian McBride in attack.


Despite the fact it was Fulham who needed the points more
desperately, it was Liverpool who started brightest.


Craig Bellamy was the main cause of concern for the home side, as
they failed to get close enough to him whenever he was in
possession.


After five minutes the Welsh forward forced a save from Antti
Niemi, and soon after he tested the Finnish goalkeeper again with
a fierce drive which was turned past the post.


It took 22 minutes for Fulham to make any serious attempt on
Reina's goal, Montella going close with an overhead kick from six
yards that was cleared off the line following Zat Knight's header
across goal.


Fulham captain Michael Brown was lucky to stay on the field three
minutes later. He appeared to headbutt Xabi Alonso on the nose in
an off-the-ball incident, and the Liverpool midfield player was
forced off for treatment.


The referee, Steve Bennett, did not see the clash and Brown
escaped without punishment.


Bellamy fired a shot inches past Niemi's far post on 35 minutes,
and moments before the half-time whistle, Robbie Fowler miscued a
great opportunity inside the six yard box as Pennant drilled the
ball across the box.


Following a run of ten games without a win, Fulham were lacking
confidence and needed a goal to settle their nerves.


Montella was replaced by Dempsey on 52 minutes as caretaker
manager Lawrie Sanchez attempted a new approach in breaking down
Liverpool's defence.


Although Fulham certainly increased their tempo in the final
third they still lacked a killer instinct around the penalty
area, and it was Liverpool who forced the next real opportunity
as Niemi saved well from Bellamy on 63 minutes.


Fulham eventually made a breakthrough though, and indeed it was
Dempsey who started and finished the move.


The midfielder collected the ball in the centre of the field on
69 minutes, before charging forward and releasing Liam Rosenior
down the right flank.


The cross from the wing was perfect, and Dempsey continued his
run to steer the ball to Reina's right hand side to put Fulham in
front.


Craven Cottage roared with relief, but Liverpool were not ready
to let them have the points.


Harry Kewell was introduced as Benitez attempted to earn a point
from this encounter. But when Liverpool did find the net through
defender Gabriel Paletta on 84 minutes, it was ruled offside.


It proved to be their final clear chance, and despite having Papa
Bouba Diop sent off for a second bookable offence in the dying
seconds, Fulham held out for a precious win.

