

Everton booked next season's trip to Europe with a game to spare
as goals from Mikel Arteta, Joseph Yobo and Gary Naysmith fired
David Moyes's side to an impressive 3-0 win over Portsmouth.


Spanish midfielder Arteta scored his ninth Premiership goal of
the season after beating former England keeper David James from
the penalty spot following Glen Johnson's 58th minute foul on
James Vaughan.


Yobo doubled the lead with a powerful header following a corner
by Portuguese midfielder Manuel Fernandes, who started the season
at Portsmouth, before substitute Naysmith completed a
comprehensive victory.


The win means Everton are effectively guaranteed a place in the
UEFA Cup with a top seventh place assured unless Reading can make
up an 11-goal deficit in terms of goal difference on the final
day of the season.


Portsmouth, who entertain Arsenal in their final match next
Sunday, could now miss out on Europe.


With leading scorer Andy Johnson still missing with an ankle
injury, Moyes ignored James Beattie and put his faith in
teenagers Vaughan and Victor Anichebe to lead the attack.


It was the first time the duo, who were looking to round off a
great week having signed contract extensions which will keep them
at Goodison until 2011, had started a top-flight game together.


And, after a nervous start, the duo started to impose themselves
on a Pompey defence which was again missing Sol Campbell.


Vaughan missed a golden chance to celebrate his third goal in
four outings in the 17th minute.


A long clearance by Tim Howard was flicked on by Anichebe into
the path of Vaughan but the 18-year-old screwed his effort
horribly wide with only James to beat.


Two minutes later Anichebe stuck out a leg but failed to make
contact with Leon Osman's header across the face of goal as
Portsmouth lived dangerously.


In a high-stakes game, both teams looked edgy during an edgy
first half. Pompey enjoyed plenty of possession and forced
Everton into conceding a string of first half corners yet they
rarely tested Howard.


Linvoy Primus headed a 17th minute corner by Niko Kranjcar over
the bar before Kranjcar's tame first-time shot was comfortably
kept out by Howard.


Then skipper Gary O'Neil fired into the side netting when he
should have done much better following good work by Benjani
Mwaruwari.


Pompey have been in devastating form in front of their own fans
this term.


Manchester United and Liverpool have been sent packing empty
handed from Fratton Park recently.


Yet their form away from has been far from impressive. Indeed,
Harry Redknapp's side went into the game seeking their first away
win of 2007 - a sequence stretching nine matches back to Boxing
Day.


And they were fortunate not to fall behind on the stroke of half-
time after Joleon Lescott got on the end of Arteta's cross to
send an effort towards the net before James got his body in the
way.


At one stage there seemed to be more bookings than goal attempts.


Howard Webb dished out the first of three first half yellow cards
to Noe Pamarot for his clumsy challenge on Anichebe. That
provoked a response from Moyes who was angry the referee stopped
play and failed to play the advantage with Arteta set to release
Vaughan.


Then Fernandes, who scored a stunning goal seven days earlier
against Manchester United, was cautioned against his former club
for fouling Mwaruwari before Arteta's cynical tackle on Djimi
Traore earned the Spanish midfielder a card.


Everton came out all guns blazing after the break with Lee
Carsley missing a great chance from eight-yards before Arteta
drilled home his fifth penalty of the campaign after the busy
Vaughan had been bundled over by Glen Johnson.


Portsmouth's afternoon went from bad to worse as Yobo beat James
with a powerful header following a corner by Fernandes, the
defender's second goal of the campaign. And in the dying moments
Naysmith scored from close range just moments after coming on.

