

South Africa's retiring opposition leader Tony Leon bid his
Democratic Alliance (DA) farewell on Saturday, urging supporters
to remain vigilant against the ruling ANC's politics of racial
nationalism.


In a reflective address, Leon reminded delegates at a two-day
federal congress of the country's largest opposition party that
they held the key to keeping the governing African National
Congress in check.


"The politics of race has not disappeared," he said in Midrand
near Johannesburg.


"While South African society is more racially integrated and
equal than ever before, race is still at the centre of government
policy."


Neighbouring Zimbabwe's political and economic downturn under the
leadership of President Robert Mugabe should serve to remind
South Africa of the destructive potential of racial politics,
said Leon.


"Yet we continue to cradle the demons of our past. Our goal could
not be more clear and more urgent: to stand up against the new
racial nationalists."


The DA is to elect a successor to Leon on Sunday, in what many
see as a chance for the party to shake off its white elitist
image.


A woman, a black man and a farmer are vying for the top post.


Cape Town mayor Helen Zille is the favourite to win the three-
horse race and see off a challenge from the party's black
chairman Joe Seremane and Eastern Cape leader Athol Trollip.


Leon, who has been the official opposition leader for the past
eight years, was often accused of elitism and racism by the ANC
for his vehement criticism of its policies on issues like
affirmative action and AIDS.


On Saturday, he expressed pride at the DA's achievements under
his leadership, growing from a small minority party to the main
opposition with 57 MPs out of about 400 in Parliament.


"We grew our party from a small, white, English-speaking club to
a great movement that reflects the full diversity of the rainbow
nation," he said. "We opened new branches in black communities
and won the confidence of Afrikaans voters and brown (people of
mixed race) voters."


But Leon, who will remain an MP until 2009, did underscore the
need for the party to win new converts.


"We have constructed a major highway on the route to power. We
need to keep building and keep constructing, knowing that our
journey is never complete."

