

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Saturday urged
Middle East players and the international community to seize what
he called a rare opportunity for peace.


Steinmeier hailed what he called a more constructive attitude
from the Arab world to seeking a solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, after visiting the Church of the Nativity
in the occupied West Bank town of Bethlehem.


"Realistically one must say that there are opportunities now that
were not there in the past, but at the same time the risks are
just as high," he told reporters.


"The opportunity lies in the fact that the Arab world is being
much more constructive -- the Arab League's decision to renew its
peace initiative was more than helpful -- and I am pleased that
it was also welcomed by the Israeli government."


Steinmeier, whose country holds the rotating presidencies of the
European Union and the Group of Eight club of wealthy nations,
said the positive momentum now needed to be spurred further with
help from the West.


"The European Union is ready with funds but above all the
international quartet is ready to offer political support," he
said, referring to efforts by the United States, the EU, the
United Nations and Russia to plot a roadmap for peace.


At a March summit in Riyadh, Arab leaders revived a five-year-old
peace plan that offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws
from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and allows for
the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


The EU has seized on the initiative as a potential way out of the
seemingly intractable conflict. Germany has made advancing the
peace process one of the chief goals of its six-month EU
presidency.


Steinmeier on Friday invited several Arab foreign ministers as
well as Arab League chief Amr Mussa to join a meeting of European
Union foreign ministers in Brussels on May 14 to discuss the
reinvigorated plan.


Steinmeier arrived in Bethlehem late Friday and met with
Palestinian finance minister Salam Fayyad early Saturday. He was
to tour Hebron before meeting his Palestinian counterpart Ziad
Abu Amr and president Mahmud Abbas later Saturday.

