

US President George W. Bush urged Congress Saturday to approve a
new and "responsible" funding bill for the Iraq war,  warning of
new violence if the money fails to materialize quickly.


"I call on Congress to work with my administration and quickly
craft a responsible war spending bill," Bush said in his weekly
radio address. "By working together, I believe we can pass a good
bill quickly and give our troops the resources and flexibility
they need."


On Tuesday, Bush vetoed a bill, which was to allocate 124 billion
dollars in emergency funding for US troops in Iraq and
Afghanistan, because it contained a call for US combat troops to
start coming home by October 1 and for most of them to be
withdrawn by March 2008.


He has appointed a high-level team led by his chief of staff,
Josh Bolten, to negotiate with Congress a new version of the
measure.


At the same time, he warned that if radical Islamists take
control of Iraq, they would have control of a nation with massive
oil reserves, which they could use to fund their ambitions and
spread their influence.


"The Al-Qaeda terrorists who behead captives or order suicide
bombings would not be satisfied to see America defeated and gone
from Iraq," said Bush, whose popularity has hit an all-time low
of 28 percent, a Newsweek poll showed Saturday.


"They would be emboldened by their victory, protected by their
new sanctuary, eager to impose their hateful vision on
surrounding countries, and eager to harm Americans," he said.


The congressional action drew scorn from Washington's terrorist
enemy, Al-Qaeda.


Speaking in a video posted on the Internet Saturday, Al-Qaeda's
number two, Ayman al-Zawahiri, said: "This bill reflects American
failure and frustration."


The bill would deprive insurgents of "the opportunity to destroy
the American forces which we have caught in a historic trap," he
said in the video interview produced by As-Sahab, a media outfit
that specializes in Al-Qaeda online material.


He went on to "ask Allah that they only get out of it (Iraq)
after losing two hundred to three hundred thousand killed, in
order that we give the spillers of blood in Washington and Europe
an unforgettable lesson."


A link to the video, which features English subtitles, was
provided to AFP by the Washington-based Site Institute.

