

The woman accused of running an upscale prostitution agency for
officials, military brass and executives in the US capital,
appeared on television late Friday, vowing to defend herself
against all charges but not revealing any new big names among her
clients.


"I think I ran a very nice operation," Deborah Jeane Palfrey,
also known as the "DC Madam," said of Pamela Martin &
Associates, as her escort service was called.


"I think I empowered a lot of women. I got a lot of women through
graduate school," she told ABC News.


She said the women she employed included a college professor, a
medical researcher, a Navy officer, a legal secretary and a
suburban realtor, who just wanted to make extra money.


Dubbed the "DC Madam" by news reports, Palfrey denies doing
anything illegal through her business which she ran for 13 years,
but has said she has a record of the phone numbers of more than
10,000 customers that could embarrass some of the US capital's
high-fliers.


Last week, the head of the US Agency for International
Development (USAID), Randall Tobias, resigned for personal
reasons, but ABC news said he stepped down after the network
contacted him about using the service.


"Tobias was a customer of my previous business, Pamela Martin
& Associates," Palfrey confirmed on Monday.


"Allow me to say how genuinely sorry I am for Mr. Tobias, his
family and his friends," Palfrey told reporters outside court.


Palfrey has promised that her telephone records -- all 46 pounds
(21 kilograms) of them -- would be revealed unless the charges
against her were dropped.


She has pleaded with journalists to seek details of her clients,
so she can call them as witnesses in her attempt to prove she was
not running a prostitution ring.


But the only other client to be revealed thus far has been Harlan
Ullman, a renowned military analyst and columnist for The
Washington Times, a conservative newspaper.


Ullman was quoted as telling reporters that the allegation he
used Palfrey's service was "beneath the dignity of comment."


ABC News said the client list also includes a career Justice
Department prosecutor, NASA officials and five military
officials, including a commander of an Air Force intelligence
squadron.


Officials from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund
and both Republican and Democratic lobbyists were also part of
the telephone records.


None of these names were disclosed, however. But, overall, the
network called the list "dull."


"There were no members of Congress that we could find in these
phone records, no White House officials," it said. "Quite
frankly, but for the few exceptions, most of the men of this list
just are not newsworthy."


In the interview, Palfrey revealed that she had hired some women
who were in their 50s for the service.


"There was never an age limit. I hired women well into their
50s," Palfrey told ABC News. "They were some of the most popular
women on staff."


Palfrey denied all the charges against her and said her company
was a legal erotic "fantasy" service staffed by students and
professional women who moonlighted for her, sometimes for three
evening shifts per week.


She said in the interview that new hires were required to sign a
contract agreeing not to have illegal sex with customers.


Potential recruits were also sent on a first appointment with a
client known to Palfrey, she said.


Prosecutors behind a federal racketeering and money laundering
case against her have branded such men "testers" and say their
purpose was to ensure the women were prepared to act as
prostitutes.

