

Nepal's embattled King Gyanendra owes more than 460,000 dollars
in unpaid electricity bills, making him the Himalayan nation's
biggest power defaulter, a report said on Saturday.


The king, who faces an uncertain future with former Maoist rebels
calling for the monarchy's abolition, owes the money for
electricity supplied to four royal palaces and bungalows since
early 2005.


"We have been regularly sending cumulative electricity bills to
the palace as well as to the royal relatives. None has responded,
let alone paid," the Kathmandu Post newspaper quoted an unnamed
government source as saying.


The king is in arrears to the tune of 30.5 million rupees
(462,000 dollars).


He owes 24.3 million rupees alone on the sprawling Narayanhiti
Royal Palace which serves as his official residence and lies in
the heart of the city.


The figures do not include the bills for his residences outside
Kathmandu.


If the power costs of Gyanendra's royal relatives were included,
the total sum would come to "over 33 million rupees (500,000
dollars) in unpaid electricity bills" up to January 2007, the
official told the Kathmandu Post.


Gyanendra stopped paying his electricity bills when he seized
absolute power in February 2005, saying he needed to crush a
deadly Maoist insurgency.


He was forced to abandon absolute rule in the face of an alliance
between political parties and the Maoists who have now signed a
landmark peace deal and formed a government.


The unnamed government official said the electricity board could
not cut off power supply to the royals "considering their
profile."


Since being forced to end direct rule, Gyanendra has been
stripped of most of his powers including his position as head of
state of the impoverished nation.


The king's ultimate fate is due to be decided after elections for
a body that will rewrite the constitution. The polls had been
slated for June but now look likely to be delayed.


The Maoists are pushing to abolish the monarchy. But some
political forces want it to retain a ceremonial role.

