

Fancy hats and union jacks were the order of the day as haute
Louisville awaited the arrival Saturday of Queen Elizabeth II for
America's premier horse race, the Kentucky Derby.


The stands were filled, race fans sipped their traditional
bourbon, sugar, ice and mint juleps and made their bets on early
races Saturday afternoon ahead of the British sovereign's arrival
at the legendary Churchill Downs racetrack.


It will fulfill a lifelong dream of the queen, a racing fan, to
personally attend the first leg of US racing's Triple Crown.


It will also be a proud first for the track, located outside of
Louisville.


"Queen Elizabeth is certainly the most prestigious guest we've
entertained in the modern-day history of the Kentucky Derby,"
track president Steve Sexton said.


Dressed as usual to the nines for the event, the crowd included a
couple dressed as Kentucky's legendary Colonel Harlan Sanders --
of Kentucky Fried Chicken fame -- and Elizabeth herself, in a
sparkling crown.


The real queen, 81, and husband Prince Philip, 85, spent the
night at the Land's End Farm in Kentucky's bluegrass horse-
raising region near Lexington, hosted by a former US ambassador
in London, William Farish.


She beamed warmly as thoroughbred breeder Farish greeted her
Friday night at Lexington's airport, with his wife Sarah kissing
her majesty on both cheeks.


The day before Elizabeth and Philip toured Jamestown, Virginia,
celebrating its 400th anniversary as the first permanent British
settlement in the Americas, where she lauded the "deep and
enduring" ties that bind Britain and the United States.


"I, like so many others, could not but be moved by the poignancy
of walking around the archaeological site where the original fort
once stood and of imagining something of the experience of those
early settlers when they first made landfall on the James River,"
Elizabeth said.


They later visited the College of William and Mary in
Williamsburg, the second- oldest US university founded by royal
charter in 1693.


Prince Philip also made a trip to nearby Norfolk to see the
battleship USS Wisconsin, which saw action in the first Gulf War.


At the Louisville race course, workers warmed up the skills
learned in special royal etiquette lessons while chefs began
preparing a meal of special native Kentucky ingredients.


The queen will arrive well into 12-race program for a tour of the
Churchill Downs Derby museum before settling in for the two
minutes of sheer excitement of the marquee 10th race, which
carries a two million dollar purse.


Afterwards she will spend the rest of the weekend on a private
visit with the Farish family, before heading to Washington for a
formal state dinner at the White House with President George W.
and Laura Bush.


It will be the first white-tie event at the White House during
Bush's six years as president.


Monday morning they will be greeted by hundreds of members of the
cabinet and Congress at a ceremony on the White House lawn, where
there will be a 21-gun salute.


The next day the queen and Laura Bush will visit the Children's
National Medical Center in Washington.

