

Leaders Barcelona threw down the gaunlet to their main rivals for
the Spanish first division title, and pushed Real Sociedad closer
to relegation, with a 2-0 win over the Basque side on Saturday.


Spanish international playmaker Andres Iniesta and Samuel Eto'o,
last season's top scorer in the Spanish first division, got
second half goals to edge the Catalan club closer to their third
successive La Liga crown.


However, the main plaudits should go not to the pair of
goalscorers but their Brazilian team mate Ronaldinho whose vision
and creativity made both the Barca goals.


After dominating the first half in San Sebastian, Iniesta finally
ended the deadlock little more than a minute after the break.


Ronaldinho showed just why he has twice been voted as the World
Player of the Year with an outstanding pass from just outside his
own box, after spotting the midfielder was lurking unmarked on
the edge of the opposition area.


Iniesta ran onto the long pass and then went around Sociedad
goalkeeper Claudio Bravo before slotting the ball home.


Barcelona nearly went further ahead just after the hour but Eto'o
was judged to be offside and last season's top scorer in the
Spanish first division had his goal annulled.


Lionel Messi and Ronaldinho also nearly added to the Barca tally
before Eto'o notched up his 10th goal of the season two minutes
from the whistle.


Ronaldinho, who put behind him some mediocre performances
recently, provided a defence-splitting pass for Eto'o to latch
onto and the Cameroon striker was deadly accurate with a right
foot shot from the edge of the area.


Barcelona now have a four point lead at the top of the table over
second-placed Sevilla, with five games to go.


However, Sevilla have a game in hand and play at third-placed
Real Madrid, who are one point further back.


Both teams know that they have to win to keep up the pressure on
Barca and maintain their own chances of grabbing the title if the
Catalan club falter down the home straight.


"Every game is now a final for us. We have to keep going game-to-
game and keep on wining but we are finishing the season in good
shape, both in terms of team spirit and what we are doing on the
field," said Real coach Fabio Capello earlier on Saturday.


"We should be capable of winning at home but Sevilla are having
an extraordinary season and their coach has done great work with
them. You have to give them respect as they are still be alive in
three competitions."


Controversially, Real's former England captain David Beckham is
expected to start.


The Spanish football association's competitions committee decided
on Thursday to cancel the yellow card that Beckham had picked up
during Real's 4-1 win at Athletic Bilbao last Sunday.


"In European football the rules are serious but in Spain it is a
joke," Sevilla's angry coach Juande Ramos said on Friday after
the decision to reprieve Beckham.


"Everyone else has to obey the rules so I don't understand why
Real Madrid don't have to do the same. Justice should be fair and
for everybody, and there shouldn't be exceptions."

