

Demonstrators shut down Indian Kashmir's main city on Saturday to
protest against the jailing of hardline separatists and alleged
damage to a mosque, witnesses said.


Protesters shouted "set free the separatists" and "God is great."
Some pelted stones at police, who retaliated with batons, but no
injuries were reported.


There have been demonstrations for nearly two weeks against the
arrest late last month of four separatists being held in
Kashmir's second largest city Jammu, which serves as the winter
capital.


The four were arrested for holding an unauthorised rally to
welcome back Syed Ali Geelani, leader of the hardline wing of the
region's separatist alliance, who had undergone cancer treatment
in Mumbai.


The strike shut all educational institutions and businesses in
the summer capital Srinagar.


Although Saturday is a normal working day in Muslim-majority
Kashmir, traffic was light and attendance at government offices
was thin.


"I urge people to observe a total shutdown to express their
resentment against the arrests," said Geelani, who sponsored the
call.


Police complained that "anti-national" slogans -- a euphemism
used for anti- India and pro-separatist slogans -- had been
chanted at the rally.


Use of such slogans is nothing new in Kashmir, where anti-India
sentiments have been running high since Muslim rebels launched an
insurgency against New Delhi's rule in 1989.


Geelani said the strike was also a response to damage to a 199
-year-old mosque housed in a fort controlled by Indian troops.


Muslim visitors have said a Hindu and a Sikh temple inside the
recently reopened fort overlooking Srinagar remained intact. But
they said the mosque had been damaged and blamed paramilitary
forces in charge of the fort.


Authorities denied the allegations, saying the mosque had been in
a "dilapidated" state for a long time.


The Hari Parbat Fort, built in 1808 when Kashmir was under Afghan
rule, was thrown open to the public last month, 17 years after
the revolt forced it to close.

