

Ten Iraqi army recruits were killed Saturday when a suicide
bomber exploded at their recruitment centre west of Baghdad one
day after police found the murdered bodies of seven anti-
terrorism officers.


Another 13 recruits were wounded in the blast, which took place
at an army base in the predominantly Sunni rural tribal area
around Abu Ghraib, said a police officer from the nearby town of
Fallujah.


Increasingly Sunni tribesmen that once fought with the insurgency
have been joining the security services at the urging of their
elders to restore stability to their strife-ridden lands.


The seven plain clothes police found murdered north of Baghdad in
the oil refining town of Baiji on Friday were tribal recruits to
Anbar province's special anti-terrorism police unit, a police
intelligence captain told AFP on condition of anonymity


The bodies of the policemen, which were riddled with bullets, had
been dumped on the roadside.


Tribes in Iraq's western province of Al-Anbar have banded
together and are working with US and Iraqi forces to combat Al-
Qaeda and sending people to join the security services to restore
stability and hasten the departure of US troops.


The fiercely independent Sunni tribesmen also see the advantage
of not being patrolled by security forces largely made up of
Shiites from elsewhere in the country.


Attempts are being made by the US military and Iraqi government
to build such tribal alliances elsewhere in the country where the
predominantly Sunni insurgency is raging with limited success.


Insurgents, particularly those linked with Al-Qaeda, have struck
back hard against the tribes looking to ally with the government.


In Baghdad, a suicide bomber blew up a vehicle at a police
station in the western Yarmuk neighbourhood, killing one officer
and wounding 10, according to medical and security sources.


A mortar round killed a woman and wounded two men in the largely
Shiite southwestern neighbourhood of Bayaa, one of the faultlines
of the sectarian fighting in Baghdad.


In the northern oil city of Kirkuk, a roadside bomb targeting a
passing police patrol killed a bystander.


A curfew imposed in the city of Samarra, north of the capital,
after the killing of a policeman Friday remained in force.


In the southern city of Diwaniyah, a past focus of violence
between the Mahdi Army and US forces, an Iraqi soldier was killed
in an attack late Friday on a joint US-Iraqi patrol, police said.


Also on Friday, US troops in Baghdad discovered and destroyed a
large tanker wired with 14 artillery shells and primed to
detonate.


Massive car and truck bombs have claimed hundreds of lives,
mostly Shiite, in Baghdad over the past few months.

