

Ruling Palestinian Islamist party Hamas on Saturday rejected a US
plan put to Israel and the Palestinians to end rocket fire in
exchange for eased restrictions on Palestinian movement.


"We forcefully reject this abject and terrorist plan because it
calls for killing the Palestinian people and legalising the
occupation of Palestinian territory in exchange for security" in
Israel, Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhum told AFP.


The document sets out a timetable for implementing measures aimed
at easing Israeli restrictions on the movement of Palestinians in
the occupied West Bank and Gaza and addressing Israeli security
concerns about militant rocket fire.


"The American administration is concerned about the security of
the Israeli occupation and offers no protection to the
Palestinian people. It wants to destroy the resistance and
reinforce on side at the expense of the other," said Barhum.


The document, a copy of which was obtained by Israel's Haaretz
daily on Friday, sets out a timeline for implementing steps on
security and movement.


In exchange for eased Israeli restrictions, the Palestinians
would have until June 21 to establish a detailed plan to prevent
the launching of rockets that are regularly fired by Gaza-based
militants into the Jewish state.


Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat told AFP on Friday that
the plan was "a very good approach."


"It is a timeline with monitors that sets out obligations by the
Palestinians and the Israelis and is aimed at deeds, not words,"
he said, adding that the Palestinian government would discuss the
plan further with the Americans.


The US State Department on Friday confirmed it had circulated
guidelines to Israelis and Palestinians about the next
confidence-building measures to be taken, but played down the
notion of a strict timetable.


The United States, Israel's main ally, has increased efforts
during the past several months aimed at jumpstarting the peace
talks between the Israelis and Palestinians, which have been
stalled for six years.

