

The Central Cheetahs finished a disappointing Super 14 season on
a high with a well-deserved, but error-ridden 16-10 victory over
the Lions at Ellis Park on Saturday.


The men from Bloemfontein led 6-3 at the break, with both sides
scoring a try in the second period.


It was the perfect send-off from Cheetahs coach Rassie Erasmus
who'll now join up with the Springboks as a technical adviser to
national coach Jake White.


The Lions finished their season in 12th place after winning five
games, while the Cheetahs had to be happy with four wins from
their 13 games.


They finished up in 11th position on the log of the southern
hemisphere inter- provincial rugby competition.


While it was a highly entertaining match with plenty of free-
flowing attack by both sets of backs, the general quality would
not have impressed either coach.


There were far too many handling errors and the option-taking by
both sets of players ensured the few potential try-scoring
chances that did present themselves went abegging.


The lineouts from both teams were messy, with plenty of ball
being stolen in this department, while the players also failed to
protect the ball at the breakdowns resulting in a high number of
turn-overs.


Both teams had the odd chance to cross their opponents' tryline,
but some solid defending combined with shoddy handling cost the
teams dearly.


Andre Pretorius, who left the field midway through the first half
because of a buttock muscle injury, got the Lions on the
scoreboard in the fifth minute with a penalty, but the Cheetahs
were the happier side at the change-over after Willem de Waal's
two penalties put them 6-3 up.


The handling woes continued for the teams in the second period,
but there was at least a bit more structure to the play by both
sides which resulted in both teams finally scoring a try.


Lions replacement wing Ashwin Willemse, returning to the game
after a year on the sidelines because of injury, crossed for a
converted try in the 63rd minute after collecting an inside pass
from his centre Doppies la Grange, while two minutes later it was
the turn of Cheetahs wing Eddie Frdericks to go in after a clever
chip and gather from flyhalf De Waal.


With the Cheetahs three-points up, fullback Bevin Fortuin then
knocked over a drop-goal to put his side 16-10 up.


The Lions came close to scoring a second try late in the game,
but some dogged defence by the Cheetahs meant the home side had
to settle for the wooden spoon of the South African teams.

