

Tony Blair, the soon-to-resign British prime minister, said in a
Sunday weekly his finance minister Gordon Brown has the ability
to lead their Labour Party to another general election victory.


Blair, who has consistently refused to name Brown outright as his
chosen successor, praised Brown's handling of the economy as
evidence of his ability to help steer their party to a fourth
consecutive term in office after a battering in mid-term
elections this week.


Blair is expected to announce his resignation plans in the coming
days and will quit within weeks.


He and Brown were close allies, but their relationship cooled,
providing a sometimes difficult dynamic at the heart of power in
Britain. They publicly insist they get along but some insiders
say not so.


Blair acknowledged that Labour now had a fight on its hands after
a decade of dominance under his rule but said the main opposition
Conservatives' policies were "not thought through."


"Gordon Brown by contrast is completely thought through," Blair
wrote in the News of the World newspaper.


"He has steered our economy from one of boom and bust to one of
the best in the world.


"He didn't do it by choosing the easy way. He did it by sound
judgment, holding his nerve and putting the long-term interests
of Britain first.


"At general election time, that is still the route to victory."


Following Thursday's mid-term elections, Labour was ousted as the
biggest force in the Scottish Parliament and was left looking for
a coalition partner to keep power in the Welsh Assembly.


The party was also trounced in English local elections by the
centre-right, main opposition Conservatives, who scored 40
percent compared with Labour's 27 percent.


Blair admitted the poll drubbing could not be brushed off.


"We have to listen. We have to take account. But in fact with a
general election at least two years away, it's all to play for,"
he wrote.


"We can come back. We have to show confidence and belief and
above all a determination to fight.


"What is plainly true is that we have a fight on our hands.


"Labour in all its 100 years never won two full terms; it never
came near three terms; never before governed for 10 years, never
even approached it.


"This is a new experience for all of us."


Blair acknowledged that Tory leader David Cameron had revived
their fortunes in his 18 months in charge, but said voters would
chose differently when electing a national administration.


"Mid-term the focus is on the government. Come a general election
and there is a choice.


"Mr Cameron's Tories have learnt -- by practice -- to be a more
effective opposition. But their policies are a mess. They are not
thought through."


Blair and Brown were at the heart of "New Labour", ditching
socialism for a centre-left approach that saw the party sweep to
power in 1997.


But their relationship has soured since, particularly over
Brown's reported perception that Blair reneged on a deal to hand
over power to him after a second term in office.


Supporters of Brown, allegedly with his blessing, mounted a
"mini-coup" last September amid heightened tensions within Labour
over Blair's foreign policy, forcing the 53-year-old premier to
say he would be gone within a year.


On Tuesday, Blair gave his most explicit backing for Brown to be
his successor, saying he would make a "great" premier and hailing
his stewardship of the economy.


"In all probability, a Scot will become prime minister," Blair
said -- possibly leaving the door open for Home Secretary John
Reid, a Blair loyalist who is keeping his options open on whether
to stand.


So far, two left-wing no-hopers have said they want to run
against Brown, while a host of party "big beasts" have ruled
themselves out.

