

At least seven people were killed when a massive tornado wrecked
a small town in southern Kansas, collapsing a hospital and
levelling homes, local officials said Saturday.


Six people were killed and more than 50 injured in Greensburg,
Kansas, after the storm made a direct hit on the small western
prairie town, said City Administrator Steve Hewitt.


Some 30 people were pulled from the rubble of Kiowa County
Memorial Hospital in Greensburg as the storm ripped homes off
their foundations and even damaged below-ground shelters,
according to reports.


Sharon Watson, spokeswoman for Kansas Emergency Management, told
CNN a seventh person was killed in an adjacent county by the
storm late Friday.


The US National Weather Center meanwhile warned of more severe
weather in the US midwest Saturday, and two new tornadoes were
reported in Nebraska to the north.


A tornado warning was issued for a huge swath of land touching
seven states from northern Texas to South Dakota, the core of the
country's "Tornado Alley."


The National Weather Service warned of "an extremely dangerous
and life- threatening situation" for central Nebraska due to the
threat of severe tornadoes.


Hewitt said 90 percent of local homes and buildings were
destroyed in Greensburg, about 120 miles (200 kilometers) west of
Wichita, and communications in the area were severely disrupted.


"This is a huge catastrophe for this small town. My home's gone,
my staff's homes are gone," he said in a press conference.


The town's 1,400 residents were evacuated and ordered not to come
back as emergency squads continued to comb the wreckage with
tractors and dogs to see if any survivors remained.


"The search and rescue continues. We want to make sure we can
find everybody," Hewitt said.


Television images showed the town virtually levelled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


Emergency workers said they were rushing to re-establish
communications facilities after the storm wiped out both land
line and cellphone services.


The massive wedge-shaped tornado, caught on film by self-styled
"storm chasers," struck at about 10:00 pm (0300 GMT Saturday).


People in the town said warning sirens went off about 20 minutes
beforehand, giving most a chance to get into storm cellars.


National weather reports put the tornado at between F3 (severe)
and F4 (devastating) on a scale of F0 to F5. An F4 storm carries
winds of 331-416 kilometers (207-260 miles) per hour.


"We are definitely thinking a mile wide" Darin Brunin, one of the
storm chasers told CNN about the extraordinary size of the storm.

