

Authorities in northern Iraq found the bodies of seven murdered
plainclothes policemen in the oil refinery town of Baiji as three
people died in a series of attacks on Saturday.


The bodies of the policemen, which were riddled with bullets, had
been dumped on the roadside.


The victims were members of a special police unit from Anbar
province, west of the capital, charged with tracking down Al-
Qaeda suspects, a police intelligence captain told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


In the capital, a suicide bomber blew up a vehicle against a
police station in the western Yarmuk neighbourhood, killing one
officer and wounding 10, medical and security sources said.


A mortar round killed a woman and wounded two men in the largely
Shiite southwestern neighbourhood of Bayaa, one of the faultlines
of the sectarian fighting in Baghdad.


In the northern oil city of Kirkuk, a roadside bomb targeting a
passing police patrol killed a bystander.


A curfew imposed in the city of Samarra, north of the capital,
after the killing of a policeman Friday remained in force.


But the authorities lifted a similar curfew imposed in the Shiite
holy city of Najaf after two policemen were wounded in clashes
between rival Shiite factions on Friday.


The disturbances broke out after a close aide of Shiite radical
leader Moqtada al-Sadr, Sheikh Abdel Hussein al-Obeidi, ignored a
ban on the movement of vehicles imposed by the city's police
force, which is dominated by a rival Shiite faction, the Supreme
Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq.


Members of Sadr's Mahdi Army militia later attacked a SCIRI
office in the Baghdad Shiite neighbourhood of Sadr City, but no
further troubles were reported.


The two movements are rivals for power among Iraq's Shiite
majority and their supporters frequently clash in the mainly
Shiite centre and south despite once being in the same political
alliance.


In the southern city of Diwaniyah, a past focus of violence
between the Mahdi Army and US forces, an Iraqi soldier was killed
in an attack late Friday on a joint US-Iraqi patrol, police said.


Also on Friday, US troops in Baghdad discovered and destroyed a
large tanker wired with 14 artillery shells and primed to
detonate.


Massive car and truck bombs have claimed hundreds of lives,
mostly Shiite, in Baghdad over the past few months.

