

The pro-independence nationalists' one-seat win in the Scottish
Parliament elections sets London and Edinburgh on a potential
collision course, as parties jockey for position Saturday.


Although the Scottish National Party (SNP) is not yet guaranteed
to form the next government in Edinburgh, their win will cause
Gordon Brown some sleepless nights as he prepares to succeed Tony
Blair as British prime minister within weeks.


British finance minister Brown played a major role in the
Scottish election campaign but saw his party relegated to the
second political force in its traditional heartland for the first
time since 1955.


If the centre-left SNP does manage to strike a deal with smaller
parties to rule in a coalition, Brown's biggest headache will be
the nationalists' push for independence.


He has said he will not work with a Scottish leader who wants to
end the 300 -year-old union with England and Wales, as SNP chief
Alex Salmond does.


Salmond said Friday he was "anxious" to cooperate with the pro-
union Brown, but the ideological differences between the two
Scots are clear.


That schism -- and Labour's severe loss of support across Wales
and England, where local elections were also held Thursday --
looks set to dominate the years before Britain's next general
election, due by 2010 at the latest.


Salmond's most immediate concern is striking a coalition deal
with other parties to secure the 65-seat majority he needs to
control the parliament, which has limited powers over areas like
health and education.


Many analysts predict the centre-left Liberal Democrats are the
preferred junior partner, but their 16 seats would not be enough
for a majority, making the two Greens and one independent
lawmakers key figures.


But the Lib Dems have ruled out sharing power with the SNP if
they stick to plans for a referendum on independence by 2010 and
Salmond must overcome that sticking point, as parties begin
behind-closed-door talks this weekend.


With limited room for manoeuvre, the Labour-Lib Dem coalition
which has ruled Scotland for the last eight years could continue
if the SNP fails to find a willing partner.


If no agreement on forming a new Scottish government is struck
within 28 days, a new election will have to be held.


There were already signs of a first clash between London and
Edinburgh Saturday after the election saw as many as 100,000
spoiled ballots, delays in postal votes and serious problems with
electronic counting machines.


The British government's Scottish Secretary, Douglas Alexander,
rejected Salmond's pledge to hold a wide-ranging inquiry into
what went wrong in addition to a review already announced by the
independent Electoral Commission.


But Salmond said his probe -- if he becomes first minister --
would question decisions made at the highest level, including by
Alexander's office, which has legal responsibility for the
election.


Alexander said the decision to combine the two ballot papers for
the two voting methods used to elect the 129 lawmakers into one
was approved by members of the Scottish Parliament.


Scottish ministers in Edinburgh also took the decision to hold
the council elections on the same day, despite it having a
different voting system. Critics say this confused people.

