

England international midfielder Joey Barton could face criminal
prosecution after it was reported on Saturday that Manchester
City team-mate Ousmane Dabo asked police to press charges over an
alleged assault.


The 30-year-old French midfielder was hospitalised for injuries
to his eye, nose and lip after an altercation at the club's
training ground on Tuesday.


Greater Manchester Police (GMP) have confirmed the incident has
been reported to them.


Barton - no stranger to violent incidents with team-mates
including one especially unsavoury one where he put a light cigar
into the eye of a youth team player - has been suspended by the
club and it is widely believed that he will be sold in the
summer.


"GMP has received a report from a 30-year-old man that he was
assaulted," sai a GMP spokeswoman.


"Inquiries are ongoing."


Such a move could have serious consequences for the 24-year-old
midfielder, who has attracted unwanted publicity on a regular
basis down the years and is presently thought to be out of the
country.


Among the most unsavoury incidents were Barton stubbing a cigar
out in the eye of team-mate Jamie Tandy during a players'
Christmas party - for which he was fined six weeks wages - and
also attacking a schoolboy Everton fan in a Thailand bar which
also saw him attack close friend and team-mate Richard Dunne,
when the Irishman tried to intervene and for which he was fined
two months wages.


Dabo was quoted in The Times newspaper on Thursday as saying he
was upset by the cowardice shown by Barton, who has one England
cap, having played against Spain in February.


"The fact that I look like the Elephant Man and will not be able
to play agains this season is bad enough but what I find most
shocking is that he (Barton) struck me first from behind and then
repeatedly when I was down on the ground," Dabo said.


"He is a coward and his actions are despicable and that is why I
am in serious discussions with my lawyers to see what actions I
can take."


Barton's brother Michael - with whom he had little contact - was
jailed for a minimum of 18 years two years ago for the racist
murder of Anthony Walker, having given himself up after an
impassioned plea from the football star.

