

Thailand's cabinet Tuesday approved a free trade agreement with
Japan, clearing the way for army-installed Prime Minister Surayud
Chulanont to sign the deal next week in Tokyo, officials said.


"The cabinet has approved the Thailand-Japan free trade
agreement, so Prime Minister Surayud can go ahead and sign the
agreement," Pisan Manawapat, Thailand's chief negotiator on the
deal, told reporters.


"The signing ceremony will take place on April 2 in Tokyo," he
added.


Negotiations on the deal were completed last year, and former
prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra had been set to sign it in
September.


But Thaksin was ousted in a coup on September 19, leaving the
agreement in limbo.


After the coup, activists raised new concerns about provisions
that would allow Japan to send toxic waste to Thailand and to
patent genetically modified micro- organisms.


The cabinet on Tuesday rejected the activists' concerns and
approved the deal in its original form, after reassurances from
Japan that it would not turn Thailand into a dumping ground for
toxic waste.


Japan is the biggest foreign investor in Thailand. The free trade
deal is seen as key to the kingdom's goal of transforming itself
into the "Detroit of the East" by continuing to woo major
investments from Japanese automakers.


Dozens of activists from the anti-free trade group FTA Watch
protested against the deal outside Surayud's offices.


The group was among the loose coalition of activists that led
street protests against Thaksin last year, eventually leading to
the coup.


"This agreement is not transparent, lacked public participation
and is full of conflicts of interest," the group said in a flyer.


"By signing this deal, the prime minister and his cabinet will go
down in our country's history as the government that caused the
most damage to Thailand. It's as bad as, or even worse than prime
minister Thaksin Shinawatra," it said.


Thailand imports more from Japan than from any other country and
counts on Japan as the second biggest market for its exports,
largely agricultural products.


Under the deal, Japan and Thailand agreed that more than 90
percent of bilateral trade should be tariff-free in 10 years and
Bangkok vowed to step up transparency and legal protections to
help Japanese investors.


Both sides made some concessions but maintained reservations on
two heavily protected sectors -- automobiles for Thailand and
agriculture for Japan.


Virachai Plasai, head of international economic affairs at the
Thai foreign ministry, said the free trade agreement (FTA) would
help Thai farm exports, as well as the auto industry.


"After the FTA is signed, our agricultural exports will
skyrocket. Skilled labour workers will also benefit, as will our
auto sector," he told reporters.


"We expected the results of the agreement will be clearly visible
in the next five to 10 years," he added.


Pornsilp Patcharintanakul, secretary general of Thailand's Board
of Trade, said news of the deal was welcome after months of
economic missteps by the army- backed government.


"It would encourage trade flows between Thailand and Japan, make
investment more competitive, as well as helping services by
facilitating human resource transfers between the two countries,"
he told AFP.


Tetsuji Banno, president of Japanese Chamber of Commerce in
Bangkok, said the agreement would reassure Japanese investors
about doing business in Thailand.


Many Japanese and other foreign investors had been concerned
about a growing nationalist streak in Thailand's economic
policies.


"The FTA will encourage new investments for two to three years by
offering good potential in the eyes of Japanese investors," he
said.

