

Britain on Tuesday demanded consular access to 15 sailors
detained by Iran and called for their swift release, while
dismissing any suggestion they were involved in espionage.


"We have said from the beginning we would like to see this matter
resolved swiftly and peacefully. I hope that can happen soon,"
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett told a news conference here
after talks with Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul.


"First ... we continue to call for not just their safe but speedy
return and second we continue to seek consular access to them for
our diplomats.


"If indeed they are being detained in reasonable circumstances,
then we can see no reason why they should not have contact with
people from the British government," she said.


The British minister rejected suggestions by Iranian officials
that the 14 men and one woman could face espionage charges, and
reaffirmed Britain's insistence that the group were in Iraqi
waters when detained last Friday.


"We are very clear that they were in Iraqi waters when they were
detained... assisting the government of Iraq. There can be of
course no charge of espionage for someone operating in a
country's waters in support of the government of that country,"
she added.


Iran has not yet informed Britain where the sailors are being
kept, Beckett said.


Earlier Tuesday, British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran
that efforts to secure the release of the sailors would enter a
"different phase" if diplomatic efforts failed.


Asked whether Blair's remarks entailed a military option, Beckett
refused to elaborate, but said that a peaceful resolution would
be best for both sides.


"We will continue... to leave the door open for a constructive
outcome of this difficulty between Iran and the United Kingdom
but it is clear that it is in everyone's interest for this matter
speedily and peacefully to be resolved," she said.


Britain, supported by Iraq, insists that the naval personnel were
conducting "routine" anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters
Friday when they were seized at gunpoint in the Shatt al-Arab
waterway in the north of the Gulf.


Iran says they had entered its territorial waters illegally and
the BBC, citing sources, said they were now being held in Tehran,
where they were being interrogated by the Revolutionary Guards.


Turkish minister Gul, for his part, said Ankara was in contact
with Tehran to facilitate the resolution of the crisis.


"We are expanding efforts for a peaceful resolution of the
incident. I hope there can be a result soon," Gul said.


A Turkish diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Gul
had held a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart
Manouchehr Mottaki during which he urged Iran to work towards a
swift and peaceful end to the standoff.

