

Business confidence in Germany bounced back in March as the
booming German economy, the biggest in the 13-country eurozone,
took a sharp rise in sales tax in its stride, a new survey showed
on Tuesday.


The widely watched business climate index, calculated each month
by the Munich- based economic research institute Ifo, rose to
107.7 points in March from 107.0 points in February, Ifo said.


The increase put the index just one point away from the record
high of 108.7 points recorded in December.


This month's rise took analysts by surprise: concensus forecasts
had been pencilling in a further decline in March month after the
index had already fallen in January and February.


"The decline in the index in the first two months of the year,
which was presumably attributable to the increase in value-added
tax (VAT), has not continued," said Ifo President Hans-Werner
Sinn.


"The surveyed firms have given more favourable assessments of
their current business situation and their business outlook for
the coming six months. The economic upswing is strong and
robust," Sinn said.


On January 1, the government increased VAT by three full
percentage points to 19 percent, the biggest-ever single rise in
a move which experts said would put the brakes on consumer
spending and therefore drag on overall growth of the eurozone's
biggest economy.


However, such concerns had now evaporated, Ifo chief Sinn said.


For its monthly survey, Ifo polls some 7,000 companies about
their assessment of current business and their expectations for
the next six months.


A breakdown of the data showed that the current sentiment sub-
index rose to 112.4 points in March from 111.6 points in
February.


And the expectations sub-index also increased, rising to 103.2
points from 102.6 points, Ifo said.


A sector breakdown showed that the business climate in the key
manufacturing industry had improved, a development that was "all
the more remarkable since expectations for future export business
remain largely unchanged," Ifo found.


There was a "slight cooling of the business climate" in the
construction sector. And in the retail sector, the climate "also
improved somewhat," the think-tank continued.


"Last month, retailers gave clearly worse assessments of their
business situation as a result of the VAT increase. But in March,
their discontent receded. Their six-month outlook remains
cautiously optimistic," Ifo said.


Analysts took cheer from the rebound in business sentiment,
saying it augured well for growth of the eurozone's biggest
economy in the months ahead.


"Germany's economic spring remains in good shape with business
confidence continuing to bloom," said Bear Stearns analysts,
David Brown.


"This compounds a really good case for sustainable strong growth
ahead. Germany looks set for 2.2 percent growth this year," he
said.


In 2006, the German economy grew by 2.7 percent, its fastest rate
in six years.


Calyon economist, Stuart Bennett, estimated that German growth
would slow in the first quarter from the 0.9 percent recorded in
the fourth quarter of 2006, but that economic activity would
remain solid.


"The Ifo survey indicates that manufacturing remained upbeat in
the first quarter and is likely to remain so over the next couple
of quarters," he said.


Thomson Financial IFR Markets analyst, Zaki Kada, said that the
rebound in the Ifo index this month was all the more surprising
given a range of negative factors such as higher oil prices, a
stronger euro, equity market jitters, the US economic slowdown,
tighter monetary conditions and the German VAT hike.


The buoyancy of business sentiment in Germany would provide
additional arguments for the European Central Bank to continue
raising its key interest rates, analysts said.


"This gives further assurances to the ECB to hike rates further,
with 4.00 percent around mid-year a very likely proposition,"
said Kada at Thomson Financial.


The ECB's benchmark "refi" refinancing rate currently stands at
3.75 percent.

