

The cane toad, a poisonous species introduced to northeastern
Australia 72 years ago to control sugar-cane pests, has adapted
so well that it may eventually spread around three-quarters of
the country's coastline, biologists say.


Bufo marinus is one of the world's most notorious examples of an
unwanted, invasive critter, for its relentless spread has
devastated populations of toads and frogs and other native
species.


In February 2006, the toad was estimated by Australian biologists
to have extended its range to more than a million square
kilometers (386,000 square miles) in tropical and sub-tropical
Australia.


In a new paper, which appears on Wednesday in the British journal
Proceedings of the Royal Society B, the same team say the
unwanted anuran's empire has now expanded to 1.2 million square
kilometres in a swathe across Queensland and the Northern
Territory.


Confounding those who believed that the species would be limited
to hot, humid climes, B. marinus has been found to cope with a
wide temperature range and dry conditions, the study says.


It now occupies regions where the minimum monthly temperature
falls below 5.0 C (41 F) and the maximum monthly temperature 37.0
C (99 F), and has colonised areas where, by all expectations, it
should have died from lack of moisture.


This shows it has the capability of living in coastal Western
Australia and coastal southern Australia, says the paper.


"We predict that cane toads now have the potential to inhabit
over two million square kilometers of the continent. This
estimate includes three-quarters of Australia's coast, a region
where most of the continent's human population and biological
diversity are concentrated," it says.


"If the cane toad's advance continues, this prolific and
problematic species is likely to cause further harm to
Australia's unique wildlife and economy."


The authors suggest the toads' expansion is down to evolution,
the lack of predators and the fabulous niche they found in
Australia's habitat.


"If the continuing acceleration of toad expansion reflects
continuing adaptation to a new environment, then even our current
forecast may prove conservative," they add grimly.


In the February 2006 study, led by Richard Shine of the
University of Sydney, toads with longer legs were found to have
an evolutionary advantage of shorter- legged counterparts,
enabling them to move quicker into new territory.


The success of longer-legged toads helps explain why, in the
1940s, the creature expanded its range by only 10 kilometres (six
miles) a year, while today it is advancing at more than 50
kilometres annually.


Toads that were radiotagged by Shine were found to be able to hop
up to 1.8 kilometers a night during wet weather, a record for any
frog or toad.


The Royal Society is Britain's de-facto academy of sciences.

