

China and Russia signed four billion dollars' worth of new trade
deals in metals, mining and oil on Tuesday at the culmination of
a Moscow visit by Chinese President Hu Jintao, a Russian official
said.


The 21 contracts include an agreement by Russian state oil
company Rosneft to supply jet fuel to China and long-term export
contracts for Russian steel products, a spokesman for First
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said.


Hu and Russian President Vladimir Putin oversaw the deals on the
second day of a visit by the Chinese president meant to secure
additional energy supplies for China and push trade to new highs.


Among the biggest contracts was a 460-million-dollar (345
-million-euro) agreement by Russia's Novolipetsk Steel to supply
steel to electrical parts maker Tebian Electric Apparatus Stock.


Novolipetsk will deliver 94,000 tonnes of steel from 2007-2011
and "gain a strong position in the growing Chinese market,"
company president Alexei Lapshin said in a statement.


The deals were signed during China's biggest-ever trade fair in a
foreign country, where nearly 200 Chinese companies were
showcasing products ranging from silk and tea to high technology.


"We are particularly interested in exhibitions devoted to
innovative and information products, aviation, aeronautics and
energy, the nuclear industry," Putin said, opening the 20,000
-square-metre (24,000-square-yard) exhibition.


Russia wants China's help in kick-starting its high-technology
sphere in exchange for helping to fill China's huge energy needs,
analysts say.


The Chinese president came seeking new energy deals, and on
Monday won an agreement for increased deliveries of Russian oil
by rail, which should jump from the 11 million tonnes delivered
in 2006 to 15 million tonnes per year.


Agreements were also signed between Russian and Chinese banks and
space agencies.


Hu continues his energy quest Tuesday evening with a visit to
Tatarstan, a mainly Muslim province in central Russia that has
extensive oil reserves. The Chinese president will meet there on
Wednesday with the region's leader Mintimir Shaimiyev.


Both sides said bilateral trade jumped over the past year, though
their statistics differed: China said trade grew 15 percent in
2006, while Russia said trade grew 43 percent over the same
period.

