

The annual international Musikmesse trade fair was scheduled to
open its doors here Wednesday with a record number of exhibitors
as Germany's music industry sounded an optimistic note for
business this year.


"2007 is looking positive for the industry," said Dagmar
Sikorski, head of DVMV, the umbrella organisation for the German
music industry.


German musical instrument makers saw sales rise by 3.6 percent
last year, with exports accounting for a record 64 percent of
total sales, data published by the DVMV showed.


Under this year's motto "Live for the music," the four-day trade
fair, one of the biggest of its kind, was set to open its doors
to trade visitors on Wednesday, with the general public to be
allowed in to sample the wares of 1,604 exhibitors from 50
different countries on the final day on Saturday.


The sprawling fair is spread across 100,000 square metres in
seven gigantic halls, with around 30,000 different instruments on
display.


And if previous years are anything to go by, the sound coming
from the halls will be deafening as visitors have the opportunity
to try out all the instruments, from pianos, harpsichords,
acoustic and electric guitars, to brass and woodwind instruments,
strings, and even church organs, as well as drum kits,
amplifiers, DJ equipment, digital mixing desks and a whole range
of computer software and multimedia.


Only the hall dedicated to sheet music, where the more genteel
makers of reproductions of historic wind and string instruments
also set up their stands, will offer a haven of relative calm.


During the four days, hundreds of workshops and concerts, from
classical to hard rock, were scheduled to entertain the tens of
thousands of expected visitors on a number of different stages.


Running concurrently with the main fair will be the separate
"musikbiz" fair, a business platform aimed at bringing together
labels, publishers, studios and music-event organisers.


Japanese musical instrument giant Yamaha will be present again
this year with its own separate pavillion.


There was also a "Music4kids" pavillion in which children aged
between five and 14 are allowed to try out different instruments.
And there will also be a "Schooljam" competition to find the best
school band, the winners of which will appear alongside headline-
topping stars of Germany's biggest open-air music festival, the
"Rock am Ring," this summer and also embark on a concert tour in
the United States.


Germany is traditionally the best-represented country with
exhibitors ranging from specialist makers of historical woodwinds
and violins to music publishers and piano makers Bechstein and
Bluethner.


But the United States is also well represented and Asia's profile
is increasing each year.

