

World oil prices dipped on Tuesday after a surge towards 65
dollars a barrel in London amid political tensions over Iran.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery fell 21 cents
to 64.20 dollars a barrel in electronic trade. Earlier Tuesday it
reached 64.64 dollars a barrel, the highest level since December
4 last year.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 35 cents to 62.56 dollars in electronic
deals before the official opening of the US market.


"What is happening now is that in the absence of any fresh
impetus we are seeing a bit of a dip," Bank of Ireland analyst
Paul Harris said.


"We have been through one relevant resistance level at 63
dollars, so we would expect to see some consolidation before we
push towards 65.50-66.00 dollars," he added.


Industry experts say Iran could disrupt its oil exports should
tensions surrounding the Islamic Republic's nuclear programme
escalate.


"We see some profit-taking after the gains (Monday)," added Daiwa
Securities analyst Mark Pervan in Melbourne.


"The market has certainly pushed oil prices to a high due to the
Iranian tension. Heightened risk in the Middle East has put a
high floor in oil prices," he added.


Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, has already
said it will restrict its cooperation with the UN nuclear
watchdog in retaliation for fresh Security Council sanctions over
its disputed atomic plan.


The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously Saturday to
impose the sanctions in a bid to pressure Iran into freezing its
uranium enrichment programme.


Iran's central bank governor Ebrahim Sheibany on Tuesday
described the sanctions as only "symbolic" and said they would
not affect the country's economy.


The imposition of sanctions followed word on Friday that Iran had
seized 15 British naval personnel in the Gulf, a move which has
also upset the oil market.


Britain has sought to keep up pressure on Iran which has rejected
growing international calls for their release. Iran says they had
entered its territorial waters illegally and the BBC, citing
sources, said they were now being held in Tehran, where they were
being interrogated by the Revolutionary Guards.

