

Arab leaders gathered in Saudi Arabia on Tuesday for a summit
which will formally relaunch a long dormant Arab plan for Middle
East peace and actively seek negotiations with Israel.


The annual meeting of heads of state, which kicks off on
Wednesday, comes after US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
appealed to Arab governments to "begin reaching out to Israel" by
building on the peace blueprint first adopted at a summit in
Beirut in 2002.


Arab foreign ministers agreed to revive the plan in preparatory
talks on Monday. The blueprint offers Israel full normalisation
of relations if it withdraws from all lands it occupied in 1967,
and permits the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of
Palestinian refugees.


Saudi Arabia, a US ally and author of the blueprint, lobbied
fellow Arab states to endorse the plan's revival, leaning
particularly on the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas, which
now leads a government of national unity with the Fatah party of
president Mahmud Abbas.


Hamas prime minister Ismail Haniya and Abbas flew into Riyadh
aboard the same plane in a show of unity.


Exiled Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal also reportedly assured Saudi
Arabia that the group, which does not recognise Israel, will back
whatever consensus the Arab summit reaches on the peace plan.


Palestinian foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr, an independent in the
new unity cabinet who is seen as an acceptable interlocutor by
the West, told AFP that the international community should
"isolate Israel" if it spurns the Arab peace offer.


Israel rejected the peace blueprint when it was first adopted but
Israeli leaders have recently spoken of the plan as a starting
point for talks.


Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni identified the plan's insistence on
the right of return of Palestinian refugees from the 1948 Middle
East war as a particular stumbling block.


Arab ministers said their offer of talks with all parties
including Israel Israel was intended to address such problems.


The Arab League was "sending a clear message to the world about
their determination to strive for peace," one minister told AFP.


Ministers were "declaring their readiness to open negotiations
with the Jewish state about the modalities of their initiative,
namely the thorny question of Palestinian refugees," he said.


The minister said the contacts would be undertaken by working
teams whose membership would reflect the varying "relations with
the rest of the world" of different Arab states.


Egypt and Jordan, the only two Arab countries to have peace
treaties with Israel, will handle the contacts with the Jewish
state, he added.


"They will be backed by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates, the two other members of the Arab Quartet already
active in reviving the plan, chiefly through contacts with Rice."


In contrast with the display of unity by the Palestinians,
Lebanon is to have two delegations at Wednesday's summit, after
the failure of Saudi-led attempts to resolve the rift between
pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud and anti-Syrian Prime Minister
Fuad Siniora.


Siniora arrived in Riyadh to a low-key welcome despite Saudi
Arabia's close ties with his cabinet. Lahoud was due to arrive
separately later.


Iraq's Kurdish foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, hit out at
ministers after they drafted a resolution calling for amendments
to the Iraqi constitution to give more power to the ousted Sunni
Arab elite and reverse moves towards a federal system.


"We don't need a diktat from Arab countries," Zebari said. "We
tell them that the idea of national reconciliation is ours, not
yours."


Libya is the only member of the 22-strong Arab League boycotting
the summit.

