

A suicide attacker dressed in army uniform blew himself up
outside a provincial police headquarters in southern Afghanistan
Tuesday, killing four policemen, an official said.


In the north, meanwhile, gunmen ambushed and killed a foreign
engineer, initially believed to be Pakistani, while five "enemy"
were killed trying to ambush World Food Programme trucks in the
southeast, police said.


In the Taliban-style bombing in the southern town of Lashkar Gah,
the attacker had tried to enter the office of the police chief on
the pretext that he needed a passport, the chief told AFP.


"While being searched at the entrance he detonated his
explosives, killing four police and wounding one," Mohammad Nabi
Mullahkhail said.


Mullahkhail handles passport affairs for Helmand province, of
which Lashkar Gah is the capital. The blast was between 20 and 30
metres (yards) from his office.


Helmand has seen much of this year's violence linked to a bloody
insurgency by the Islamist Taliban movement, who mostly target
Afghan and foreign security forces and civilians who work for
them.


Meanwhile, police said that in the southeastern province of
Ghazni, security forces challenged militants who had ambushed 13
trucks of the World Food Programme, setting ablaze one and
overturning another.


Five were killed, the interior ministry said in a statement.


The engineer was killed in the province of Balkh by unknown men
on a motorbike, provincial police spokesman Shirjan Duranni said.
He said the man was a Pakistan national but did not immediately
have any other details.


The north of Afghanistan has been relatively free from Taliban
violence but sees other attacks that may be linked to factional
tensions or the drugs trade.


Military officials in Afghanistan have said they expected more
attacks, especially suicide bombings, on "soft targets" like
civilians because the militants were unable to confront the
security forces in conventional battle.


"We have known that was coming because the enemy knows they
cannot stand up to the army and police toe-to-toe, so they are
going to go for soft targets," ISAF spokesman Colonel Tom Collins
told AFP this week.


In other insurgency-related incidents announced Tuesday, the US-
led coalition said it had arrested four men in the eastern
province of Nangarhar in a compound containing rocket-propelled
grenades and propellant.


They also arrested a man in Kunar province in a raid targeted at
a militant commander linked to bombings and moving foreign
fighters in the province.


A suicide bomb in Kandahar province late Monday killed only the
attacker, police said.


The defence ministry said that on Monday seven militants were
wounded and 10 arrested in an operation in the southeastern
province of Ghazni.


And in Nangarhar, a convoy supplying fuel to US bases was
attacked late Monday by militants who torched two trucks and left
two drivers wounded, police said.

