

Lebanon has sent two separate delegations to Wednesday's Arab
summit in Riyadh, underscoring the deep divisions still plaguing
the country since the civil war ended 17 years ago.


Beirut is represented by both pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud
and by a delegation led by Western-backed Prime Minister Fuad
Siniora.


Lahoud was officially invited as head of state, but after bids to
form a single delegation failed, Siniora -- backed by Arab
heavyweights Egypt and Saudi Arabia -- also received an
invitation.


"As long as the Americans do not engage in dialogue with Syria,
and as long as there is no true reconciliation between Damascus
and Riyadh, the Lebanon crisis will endure," the Arab League
representative in Beirut Abdelrahman Solh told AFP.


Siniora said in a weekend television interview that his
invitation was "Arab and international recognition -- after
gaining local recognition -- of the legitimacy of the
government."


Lahoud and the Damascus-backed opposition consider the Siniora
government "illegitimate" since all Shiite Muslim ministers
resigned last November.


The country has since been paralysed as the opposition insists on
an enlarged cabinet in which it would wield a veto -- a demand
rejected by the ruling majority.


The government accuses the opposition of acting under Syrian
pressure to paralyse political institutions and block the
creation of an international tribunal to try suspects in the
February 2005 murder of former prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


His killing -- blamed on Syria -- triggered domestic and
international protests which forced Damascus to end 29 years of
military presence and political domination of its neighbour.


Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said on Monday there
was still a chance to end the crisis, which has threatened to
plunge Lebanon back into violence and chaos last seen in the
1975-1990 civil war, especially after deadly January street
clashes between Shiites and Sunnis.


Saudi Arabia, a Sunni powerhouse supporting Siniora, and Shiite
Iran have twice this year discussed how to curb the confessional
disputes.


Lebanese Justice Minister Charles Rizk said he regretted
"divisions among the Lebanese which could cause Arab divisions at
the summit" in an apparent reference to rifts between Saudi
Arabia and Syria.


"I fear that the resolution of the crisis is not in the hands of
the Lebanese, it is being referred to the Arab summit. And the
reason is that we, the Lebanese, have failed to unite, and each
has resorted to his regional backers," he said in a newspaper
interview on Monday.


"There's an unresolved problem among Arabs as to the very
existence of Lebanon as an entity, and this is very dangerous."


A summit draft resolution urges all sides in Lebanon to engage in
national dialogue and do everything in their power to end current
divisions.

