

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Tuesday urged Arab leaders to
help bolster peace efforts in the Middle East on the eve of their
summit in Saudi Arabia.


"I expect that the leaders of the Arab League, during their
meeting, will have a very good discussion to help facilitate the
peace process in the Middle East," he said in the Jordanian
capital after talks King Abdullah II.


Ban and the Jordanian monarch later flew separately to Riyadh for
the two-day summit opening on Wednesday that is expected to
revive an Arab initiative for peace with Israel, officials said.


"The Israelis and the Palestinians have begun their talks and (US
Secretary of State Condoleezza) Rice has been busily engaged, and
Arabs are taking a very constructive role," Ban said.


The king "insisted on the importance of the UN role ... to
provide the necessary international umbrella to build on Arab and
international efforts to return Israelis and Palestinians back to
the table of negotiations," the palace said.


"Time should not be wasted and the opportunity to achieve a
comprehensive peace should be seized," he told Ban.


"Political momentum should be kept up as well as consultations
between Arab and international parties," he said. "Any
alternative will only serve to widen mistrust and violence."


Ban flew into Amman from Israel, where on Monday he suggested
that a possible meeting grouping Israel, some Arab states and the
international Middle East Quartet was a good option to jump-start
peace talks.


A four-way meeting is "a very interesting and useful idea to
consider, but we need more consultations," Ban said.


His visit comes amid a flurry of diplomatic activity that saw
Rice shuttle between Israeli and Palestinian leaders and hold
talks in Jordan to revive the peace process.


The Riyadh summit aims to reactivate an Arab peace bid first
floated in 2002 that offers Israel full Arab recognition in
exchange for its withdrawal from all occupied Arab land, creation
of a Palestinian state and return of refugees.

