

Toronto Raptors forward Jorge Garbajosa said Tuesday that he will
miss the remainder of the National Basketball Assocation season
after suffering a left ankle injury.


The Spanish star suffered the injury in a 95-87 loss to Boston
here Monday and was taken off the court on a stretcher after a
hard fall.


"I need to undergo an operation and the sooner, the better,"
Garbajosa said. "Probably, I will undergo that operation in
Toronto. It is certain that I will be out for the rest of the
season."


Garbajosa, a hero of Spain's world championship victory last year
in Japan, hopes to be able to play again by September at the
European Basketball Championships in Spain, but even that is not
certain.


"My aim is (to return for) the EuroBasket in Madrid but until
they open up my ankle I will not know anything," Garbajosa said.


Garbajosa grabbed his leg and yelled for help after falling
following an attempt to block a shot by Boston's Al Harrington
7:30 into the final quarter.


"He just came down on it I guess," Toronto coach Sam Mitchell
said. "We have no idea. What do you want me to say? You hate to
see anybody get hurt."


Garbajosa, who spent seven seasons playing in Spain and four in
Italy before jumping to the NBA this season, was coming off a
season-high 22 point effort against Denver on Friday. He is
averaging 8.5 points and 4.9 rebounds a game.


"For him to go down, it's definitely going to hurt us. Man, it's
tough," Raptors point guard T.J. Ford said.


"I hate that it happened because he brings so much to the table
on the defensive end, offensive end, his intelligence, his
knowledge of the game."


At 38-32, division leader Toronto is set for a home-court edge in
the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs.


But the Raptors' status is precarious without Garbajosa, 29, and
Italian rookie forward Andrea Bargnani, sidelined indefinitely
after an appendectomy last week.


"It seems like the last week or so, we've been dropping like
flies," Toronto forward Morris Peterson said. "We have a lot of
guys injured. We understand that's part of the game and we're
trying to finish the season strong.


"A guy like Garbo brings a lot to the table. Other guys are going
to have to step up now."

