

A woman begging for help to find a missing family member threw
herself at the feet of Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf as he
addressed a public rally here Tuesday.


The issue of missing people allegedly held by security forces is
one of the issues that opponents say Pakistan's suspended top
judge was focusing on before Musharraf controversially removed
him on March 9.


State television showed the unidentified woman with a scarf over
her head approaching the stage as military ruler Musharraf
addressed the gathering in Rawalpindi, near Islamabad, forcing
security guards to try to stop her.


Musharraf then allowed the woman to come up to the side of the
raised platform, which was backed by a huge picture of himself,
where she prostrated herself at his feet in front of about 3,000
people.


The president had just finished blaming extremist organisations
for being behind the disappearances and for encouraging young men
to leave home and become suicide bombers.


"This lady came to me and apparently she is also facing the same
problem, there is someone missing and I promise her that I will
make every effort to trace him," Musharraf told the rally.


He did not give any more details about her case and the woman was
ushered off before the media could speak to her.


On Monday a Pakistan Supreme Court bench ordered authorities to
provide information on the cases of several missing persons cases
lodged by their relatives.


Chaudhry, the suspended chief justice, was the one who first
allowed many such cases to be heard last year, and critics of the
government say this had angered Musharraf.


Pakistan's top human rights body in February accused Musharraf's
government of unlawfully detaining hundreds of people in the name
of the fight against terrorism.


Opposition supporters have also alleged that Musharraf removed
Chaudhry to ensure a compliant judiciary in the run-up to
expected parliamentary and presidential elections.


Musharraf, however, told the rally that opposition parties were
politicising a legal issue and had failed to muster mass support
for protests backing the chief justice, who faces misconduct
charges including that he unfairly advanced his son's career.


"The nationwide demonstration they planned on Monday failed to
get mass support. Only a few thousand people turned up and people
did not respond to their call," Musharraf told a public rally in
Rawalpindi, near Islamabad.


"They want to create a law and order problem, but they have no
public support and people will not allow them to plunge the
country into chaos," added Musharraf.


Monday's protests were organised by the Pakistan People's Party
of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto and a faction of the
Pakistan Muslim League, led by another ex-premier, Nawaz Sharif.

