

Detectives probing the murder of cricket coach Bob Woolmer said
investigators were nowhere near identifying suspects as
Pakistan's shell shocked team prepared to head home on Tuesday.


Deputy police commissioner Mark Shields said reports suggesting
that detectives were focusing attention on three Pakistani fans
who left Jamaica soon after Woolmer's murder were premature.


"The reality as I've said before is that there are many potential
suspects and even more potential witnesses, and we are nowhere
near the stage of being able to start naming names in terms of
suspects," Shields said.


Woolmer's naked body was found in his room at the Jamaica Pegasus
Hotel in Kingston on March 18, one day after Pakistan had been
sensationally dumped out of the Cricket World Cup after a shock
defeat to Ireland.


The 58-year-old former England international's killing has been
linked to match- fixing although Shields has repeatedly stressed
investigators are keeping all lines of enquiry open.


Detectives are hoping to find clues from the hard drive of
Woolmer's laptop computer and are poring over hours of grainy
security camera footage taken at the Pegasus Hotel.


But Shields warned that the murder investigation was not going to
be solved "in 45 minutes," describing the inquiry as a slow,
arduous process.


"We are going to do it properly, thoroughly and professionally
and at the end of it, it may be that we might identify a
suspect," he said.


"It really is down to the painstaking work of trying to sift
through as much information as we can to try and track down the
killer or killers."


Police have said it is likely Woolmer knew his murderer, noting
that there was no sign of a forced entry to his hotel room and
that nothing appeared to have been stolen.


Shields said police wanted to take DNA samples from anyone who
was at the hotel at the time of the killing, and that
investigators might travel to other Caribbean islands to
interview cricketers, officials and spectators.


He also said he did not "feel any frustration" at having allowed
the Pakistani team to leave the island on Saturday.


The Pakistanis were questioned by police and gave DNA and
fingerprints. Shields said there were no grounds to have
prevented them from leaving Jamaica.


Pakistan's players were due to leave London on Tuesday following
a two-day stop- over on their way home during which they have
kept a low profile.


Captain Inzamam ul-Haq was seen leaving the team hotel near the
capital's Heathrow airport, driving off in a car towards the
airport itself. Batsman Imran Nazir also briefly emerged from the
hotel.


The players, said to be devastated at Woolmer's death, have made
little or no comment during their London stay.


Reports suggested they would issue a statement before leaving
London, but this could not immediately be confirmed.


According to informed sources, the Pakistani team were due to
leave London later Tuesday in three groups, all of them heading
initially for Dubai. It was unclear if they were to fly on from
there to Pakistan.


The Pakistani cricket captain's flight was due to leave around
1600 GMT, after an early afternoon flight and before another
leaving mid-evening, the source said.

