

Guillaume Soro Kigbafori, who is expected to become Ivory Coast's
new prime minister, cut his teeth as a student leader before
emerging as the main leader of the rebellion that divided the
west African state.


The main rebel grouping, the New Forces, said that Ivorian
President Laurent Gbagbo was due to announce the appointment of
the 34-year-old Soro to the premiership on Tuesday.


Soro was one of the main political leaders of the rebellion which
broke out in September 2002, and which quickly led to the Ivory
Coast being split in two along an east-west axis, with rebels in
control of the north and government forces in the south.


After taking the leadership of the group at the head of the Ivory
Coast Patriotic Movement (MPCI), Soro went on to play a leading
role in negotiating the first of several abortive peace deals in
January 2003.


He later became part of a national reconciliation government,
serving as communications minister from 2004 to 2005.


The New Forces, which brings together the main rebel groups, has
been demanding that Soro become prime minister since 2005; in the
outgoing cabinet under Prime Minister Charles Konan Banny, he
held the post of minister for reconstruction.


Soro accepted an offer in January for "direct dialogue" with his
former enemy Gbagbo to take the country toward a peace accord and
elections. The talks led to a peace agreement on March 4.


Born on May 8, 1972 in the north of the country, Soro rose to
prominence as the leader of the main students' union, FESCI,
between 1995 and 1998.


His fierce opposition to the then-ruling Ivory Coast Democratic
Party of president Henri Konan Bedie got him thrown into prison
several times.


After his studies, he spent time in Britain and France.


Soro's successor as head of the union was to be Charles Ble
Goude, who has since become the militant head of a youth support
movement for Ggagbo.


When an army general, Robert Guei, carried out the country's
first-ever coup in December 1999, Soro initially emerged as one
of his supporters.


However he soon became disenchanted with Guei and his junta, and
threw in his lot with Alassane Ouattara, a former prime minister
who like him was from the north.


In the run-up to elections in 2000 the junta decreed that
Ouattara was not in fact Ivorian despite his having once served
as prime minister, and therefore prevented him from running.


That decision, which helped fuel the frustrations that broke out
in the rebellion of September 2002, only strengthened Soro's
support for the northerner.

