

Students staged a mock trial on Tuesday for 15 British sailors
and marines Tehran says were seized inside Iranian territorial
waters, the student news agency ISNA reported.


It said the "symbolic trial" was held in the southwestern border
town of Shalamsheh, the scene of fierce fighting in Iran's eight-
year war with neighbouring Iraq from 1980 to 1988.


"The prosecutor examined the crimes and acts of oppression
perpetrated by British colonialism," said the news agency, adding
that the summing up was greeted by chants of "Death to America"
and "Death to Britain."


ISNA said the students denounced "the British sailors who
violated (Iran's) territorial waters" and demanded that "they be
punished."


The exact whereabouts of the 15 Britons -- 14 men and one woman
-- remain unknown since they were arrested by Iranian
Revolutionary Guards on Friday.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Tehran on Tuesday that
efforts to secure their release would enter a "different phase"
if diplomatic efforts failed.


London, supported by Iraq, insists that the 15 were on "routine"
anti-smuggling operations in Iraqi waters when they were seized
at gunpoint in the Shatt al- Arab waterway in the north of the
Gulf.


Iran says they entered its territorial waters illegally. The BBC,
citing sources, said they were now being held in Tehran and being
interrogated by the Revolutionary Guards.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett on Tuesday demanded
consular access to the 15 and called for their swift release,
dismissing any suggestion they were involved in espionage.


"We have said from the beginning we would like to see this matter
resolved swiftly and peacefully. I hope that can happen soon,"
she told a news conference in Ankara after talks with Turkish
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul.


Gul said Turkey was in contact with Iran to facilitate a
resolution of the crisis.


Beckett later cut short her visit after a telephone conversation
with her Iranian counterpart over the 15 sailors, a foreign
ministry official in Ankara told AFP.


The official said the call was related to the 15 naval personnel.
British embassy officials were not immediately available for
comment.

