

The British wing of European aircraft maker Airbus needs the
British government to invest in research and new technology to
secure the company's long-term future, the chief of Airbus UK
said on Tuesday.


Managing director Iain Gray also revealed that he was actively
seeking "risk sharing partners" to help transform the division.


Airbus, owned by Franco-German aerospace group EADS, is axing
about 12 percent of its British workforce as part of a massive
restructuring linked to severe production delays to its flagship
superjumbo A380, which is the world's biggest passenger jet.


Airbus UK has about 13,000 workers at Broughton, in North Wales,
and Filton in western England, designing and manufacturing wings.


"We indisputably need government funding in terms of technology
investment," Gray told a parliamentary committee in London when
asked if the firm needed further British government subsidies.


He continued: "It is fundamental that we secure investment in
future technology -- it is absolutely critical.


"It is a principal area and is paramount to the future of Airbus
and we need to fight for government funding for R and D (research
and development) investment to take the company forward."


Gray told the Trade and Industry Committee that additional
government funding would secure Airbus UK's future "for the next
20 years."


He added that the division was also seeking a partner to help
transform the group's Filton facility to produce carbon fibre
composites instead of metal.


"The future of Airbus in the UK depends crucially on finding risk
sharing partners," Gray added.


He ruled out another tie-up with British defence company BAE
Systems -- which had last year sold its 20-percent stake in
Airbus to EADS.


"I don't envisage any problems in finding a partner but I do not
envisage a partnership with BAE Systems," Gray said.


Tens of thousands of striking Airbus workers rallied across
Europe on March 16 to protest management plans to cut 10,000 jobs
under a sweeping restructuring scheme at Airbus, which is wholly
owned by the European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company
(EADS).


Airbus plans to slash 1,600 jobs in Britain over the next four
years.


However, the cuts were tempered by news that remaining workers in
Britain, totalling about 11,400, would be leading the development
of technology at the aircraft maker in the coming years.


The 10,000 job losses, together with the total or partial
disposal of six sites, are intended to save 5.0 billion euros
(6.6 billion dollars) by 2010 and pull Airbus out of a crisis
caused by delays to its A380 programme, seen as critical to
Airbus' bid to catch up with US rival Boeing.

