

Iraq on Tuesday prepared to debate a new bill designed to woo
back members of the outlawed Baath party into mainstream politics
and government jobs in a reconciliation bid to quell rampant
conflict.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani said
Monday that they had sent the draft Accountability and
Reconciliation Law, pushed for by outgoing US envoy Zalmay
Khalilzad, to cabinet and parliament for approval.


The bill would reform deeply controversial legislation that saw
tens of thousands of army and government officials sacked after
the US-led invasion by offering jobs to all but the highest
ranking former regime officials.


The original de-Baathification law and the disbanding of former
president Saddam Hussein's sprawling military has been widely
labelled a key American policy mistake that fuelled the deadly
Sunni-led insurgency.


Wooing former Baathists, a large part of the educated and
professional elite under Saddam, back into fractious mainstream
politics and the civil service is seen as key to promote national
reconciliation and appease ongoing violence.


Yet while Shiite and Kurdish lawmakers, who dominate the
275-member parliament, largely welcomed the draft legislation,
Sunni Arab officials cast doubt on whether the legislation would
have a practical affect.


Neither was it clear when the cabinet would actually begin
debating the bill, which needs ministerial approval before being
passed onto parliament for final blessing before passing into the
statute books.


Sami al-Askari, a leading MP close to Maliki, told AFP the bill
would be reviewed in upcoming cabinet meetings, but declined to
say when. The cabinet usually meets once a week, frequently on
Thursdays.


The bill offers immunity to former Baathists after a six-month
challenge period during which any Iraqi can file a lawsuit
against any Baathist or former security officer they suspect of
past crimes.


After that, all Baathists would be immune from prosecution over
their actions under the former regime. Pensions for Baathists and
their families, would also be confirmed, regardless of an
official's rank.


The bill was announced as Arab ministers meeting ahead of an Arab
summit in Riyadh agreed to call for an amendment of Iraq's
constitution to give Sunnis a greater share of power to prevent
the country from breaking up.


But Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari was adamant on Tuesday that
Baghdad did not need an Arab "diktat" on how to boost
reconciliation, saying his government was determined to amend its
constitution.


"Amendment of the constitution is an obligation written in the
text of the constitution, and we are determined to do it without
waiting to be told," he told AFP in Riyadh.


Khalilzad said the bill would give those who have been de-
Baathified "the opportunity to return to their jobs, provided
they were not at the highest levels of the former regime and have
not been involved in criminal activity."


It was one of his indirect predecessors, former US administrator
in Iraq, Paul Bremer, who in 2003 outlawed the Baath party and
sacked tens of thousands of its members.


It became a major source of grievance for Iraq's minority Sunnis,
who have since fought relentlessly against US troops and the
Shiite-led, US-backed government that severed their decades-long
grip on power.


Shiite lawmakers welcomed the bill, hailing it as an opportunity
to divorce the majority of Sunni Baathists from violence and draw
them back into the mainstream.


"There is no doubt it will help reduce the cycle of violence in
the country if the Baathists returned to their administrative and
social posts," Hassan al- Sinaide, an MP in Maliki's Dawa Party,
told AFP.


But Sunni lawmakers remained sceptical, doubting that former
Baathists would return in the current climate of Shiite-Sunni
sectarian violence.


"I doubt they (the Baathists) will return," said Dhafer al-Ani, a
prominent lawmaker from the National Concord Front, the main
Sunni bloc in parliament.


"There is a programme by some political parties and militias to
finish them (Baathists) up. So the law is not effective in
practice."


But Kurdish MP Mahmud Othman said the bill is an attempt to make
use of the vast pool of talent among former regime officials.


"The present regime wants to benefit from them. Iraq currently is
not run in a good way ... From the start the present regime
should have benefited from the people of old regime."


Khalilzad, a Sunni Muslim, also welcomed the new bill as a
"significant step in the right direction" towards national
reconciliation.

