

EU finance ministers unanimously backed plans on Tuesday to
create a single European retail payments market to drive down
costs to consumers through tougher competition.


"The necessary legal security now exists not only for payment
service providers but also for the customers, the people in
Europe," German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck told
journalists after chairing the meeting.


"Things are going to improve vastly for our citizens, it will be
less bureaucratic, consumer protection is taken into account and
there will be enormous savings for people," he added.


The plans aim to make cross-border payments by credit card, debit
card, electronic bank transfer, direct debit or other means as
easy, cheap and secure as payments in a single EU country.


That will be done by harmonising rules across the European Union
for retail payment providers who can offer such services, opening
the door for non-banks such as supermarkets or mobile phone
operators to muscle in on the market.


The European Union is currently covered by a patchwork of
national payment rules which can lead to wide variations between
the prices charged for payment services.


For example, a bank transfer that is free in one EU country can
cost more that 10 euros in another member.


The EU's executive arm has calculated that the annual cost of
making payments between these fragmented national systems is two
to three percent of gross domestic product and that the shake-up
could save EU consumers 50-100 billion euros per year.


The plans aim to complement an industry initiative, know as the
Single Euro Payment Area, to harmonise non-cash payment rules in
euros starting in 2008 through a legal framework that would also
cover other EU currencies.


If the new rules are approved by the European Parliament next
month, member states would have to adopt them by November 2009 at
the latest.


Under a compromise reached by the ministers, the rules would
allow new players such as retailers or mobile phone operators to
enter the payments market on condition they meet strict rules.


It also allows for non-banks to provide credit across borders if
it is linked to a purchase and if providers meet minimum capital
requirements and repayment takes place in less than a year.

