

A British man was on Tuesday officially certified by Guinness
World Records as the first person to have run around the world.


Robert Garside, 40, said he was "so happy and relieved" after
receiving his certificate in London as it had taken him nearly
four years to fight claims that he had exaggerated his feat.


The self-described "Runningman" ran 35,000 miles (56,000
kilometres) across 30 countries, taking five years and eight
months to complete his unprecedented journey.


Garside got more than just blisters and a certificate to show for
his efforts.


"I met my wife on the run in Venezuela and she has been very
supportive," he said.


Since finishing in June 2003, the Briton has faced accusations
that he was exaggerating his achievements and has spent the years
since compiling evidence.


Marco Frigatti, Guinness's head of records, was convinced that
Garside followed the rules.


His team ploughed though video footage, local news reports,
credit card receipts and statements from witnesses saying Garside
ran the route.


"It is genuine," Frigatti confirmed.


"I have approved many records and this record had an astronomical
amount of evidence and it could be cross-checked so we are happy
and satisfied."


During his journey, Garside slept in the snow in the Himalayas,
and at a monastery in Tibet, and also had to out-run thieves in
Mexico and hot-foot it from gunmen in Panama.


He even spent five nights in a Chinese jail for not having the
right travel documents.


In December 1996, Garside set out from Piccadilly Circus in the
heart of London on his first attempt to jog around the world.


Then a 29-year-old psychology student, that attempt had to be
abandoned when war broke out in Afghanistan.


It was only on his fourth try -- beginning at India Gate in New
Delhi the following year -- that he succeeded, ending up back in
the Indian capital in June 2003.


"I am unbelievably happy that an incredibly long project has
finally ended up on a positive note," Garside said in remarks
timed for Tuesday's ceremony in Piccadilly Circus.


"I am so happy and relieved and I am so grateful to all those
people all over the world who helped me throughout the years I
was running."

