

A suicide attacker dressed in army uniform blew himself up
outside a provincial police headquarters in southern Afghanistan
Tuesday, killing four policemen, an official said.


The bomber had been trying to enter the office of the police
chief in the town of Lashkar Gah, the main town in Helmand
province.


"While being searched at the entrance he detonated, killing four
police and wounding one," the police chief, Mohammad Nabi
Mullahkhail, told AFP.


The attacker had a passport application and was "trying to get in
to my office," he said.


Mullahkhail handles passport affairs for the province. The blast
was between 20 and 30 metres (yards) from his office.


Police had become suspicious of the man and surrounded him,
leading him to set off his explosives, the interior ministry
said.


Helmand has seen much of this year's violence linked to a bloody
insurgency by the Islamist Taliban movement, who mostly target
Afghan and foreign security forces and civilians who work for
them.


Lashkar Gah has been struck by several suicide bombings in the
insurgency, which was launched after the Taliban were toppled
from government in 2001.


Last August a blast in the small town's crowded bazaar killed 17
people and wounded 50.


Military officials have said they expect the Taliban to carry out
more suicide attacks, including on civilians, because they are
unable to confront the security forces in conventional battle.


"We have known that was coming because the enemy knows they
cannot stand up to the army and police toe-to-toe so they are
going to go for soft targets," International Security Assistance
Force spokesman Colonel Tom Collins told AFP this week.


The defence ministry said Monday that Afghan security forces
backed by the NATO- led ISAF had killed 99 insurgents in a four-
day operation in Helmand, which is a heartland of the Taliban
said to be allied with opium traders.


ISAF meanwhile launched a separate operation in northern Helmand
three weeks ago called Achilles, which is focused on stabilising
an area around a hydropower dam so the facility can be
rehabilitated.


There has been an increase in insurgency-related incidents in the
past weeks.


In new incidents, the US-led coalition announced it had arrested
four men in the eastern province of Nangarhar in a compound
containing rocket-propelled grenades and propellant.


They also arrested a man in Kunar province in a raid targeted at
a militant commander linked to bomb blasts and moving foreign
fighters in the province.


A suicide bomb in Kandahar province late Monday killed only the
attacker, police said.


The defence ministry said meanwhile that on Monday seven
militants were wounded and 100 arrested in an operation in the
southeastern province of Ghazni.


And in Nangahar a convoy supplying fuel to US bases were attacked
late Monday by militants who torched two trucks and left two
drivers wounded two drivers, police said.

