

The United States has posted a five-million dollar reward for the
capture of a Malaysian terror suspect wanted for several bombings
in the Philippines, the State Department said Tuesday.


"Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has authorized a new reward
of up to five million dollars for information leading to the
arrest or conviction of Zulkifli bin Hir (a.k.a. Marwan)," the
State Department said in a statement.


Zulkifli, described as "a terrorist believed to be involved in
multiple deadly bomb attacks in the Philippines," has also been
added to the US most-wanted list.


He joins the United States' public enemy number one, Osama Bin
Laden, mastermind of the Al-Qaeda network, who has a 25-million
dollar bounty on his head.


Zulkifli is believed to have been in hiding in the Philippines
since August 2003 where he is involved in making bombs with the
Abu Sayyaf group, which is linked to Al-Qaeda.


Born in 1966 in Muar, Johor, Zulkifli, a Malaysian citizen,
allegedly heads the Kumpulun Mujahidin Malaysia (KMM) terrorist
organization and is a member of Jemaah Islamiyah's central
command, the State Department said.


Jemaah Islamiyah remains Southeast Asia's most potent extremist
group and is believed to have been behind a number of bombings in
Indonesia, including attacks on the resort island of Bali in 2002
and 2005 in which more than 200 people were killed.


"Anyone with information on Zulkifli bin Hir, or on any past or
planned act of international terrorism against United States
persons or property anywhere in the world, is urged to contact
the Rewards for Justice program," the State Department added.


The Abu Sayyaf and the Jemaah Islamiyah groups have been blamed
for the worst terror attacks in the Philippines including the
bombing of a ferry off Manila Bay in 2004 which killed more than
200 people.


The Abu Sayyaf group was founded by Afghan-trained firebrand
Abubakar Abdurajak Janjalani in the early 1990s to fight for an
independent Islamic state in the southern Philippines.


Based in the southern state of Mindanao, it gained global
notoriety following its kidnapping of foreign tourists on a
remote Malaysian resort island for ransom in 2000.


Zulkifli's younger brother "Taufik bin Abdul Halim, a.k.a. Dany,
was involved in the 2001 Jakarta Atrium Mall bombing, and
currently is in detention in Indonesia," the statement added.


Since it was created in 1984, the US Rewards for Justice program
has paid out some 62 millions dollars to more than 40 people who
have fed US officials vital information leading to the arrest of
wanted persons.


Some 36 names are currently on the list, including bin Laden, who
has eluded capture since openly claiming responsibility for
bringing down New York's World Trade Center in 2001.

