

Israeli and Palestinian officials are to meet in Cairo this week
to follow up on security aspects of their renewed dialogue, a
senior US official said Tuesday.


The discussions will largely focus on preventing the Islamist
Hamas movement of Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya from
using a lull in factional violence in the Gaza Strip since the
formation of a new unity government last month to rearm, the
official said.


US and Egyptian representatives are also to join the talks.


"It's really important during this period of calm that we have
now between the Palestinians that Hamas not take advantage of
that to rebuild its capability, because that is, I think, their
plan," said the US official, who asked not to be identified.


"A lot needs to be done to protect especially Gaza from further
infiltration of money and military equipment," said the official,
who accompanied US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in the
shuttle diplomacy that resulted in the agreement to renew
Israeli-Palestinian dialogue.


A first meeting of the "quadrilateral security committee" was
organized following Rice's previous trip to the region in
February to develop a security plan for forces loyal to the
moderate Palestinian president, Mahmud Abbas.


The plan was to reinforce a truce aimed at ending militant rocket
attacks against Israel from the Gaza Strip and eventually extend
the ceasefire to halt attacks against Israeli targets in and from
the West Bank.


The official said the committee would meet again in two days in
Cairo "to continue that track on the security side".


The official said there was particular concern about the weaponry
believed to be in the hands of Hamas forces, including mortars
which were reportedly used in a battle in December between the
Islamist fighters and members of Abbas's secular Fatah party.


"They are armed to the teeth in Gaza," the official said. "This
is not like your average little militia. They do have heavy crew-
served weapons and they pull them out and they use them."


He said Hamas was smuggling the weapons into Gaza by sea and
through tunnels from Egypt. "That's something we have to
address."


As part of its efforts to boost Abbas in his power struggle with
Hamas, the US government is planning to provide security forces
under his control with some 50 million dollars in training and
non-lethal equipment.


A larger 86 million dollar aid package was blocked in Congress
over concerns that some of the money could end up in the hands of
Hamas now that the movement is in government alongside Fatah.


Rice scaled her request for funds back to 50 million dollars and
altered the aid proposal to ensure the aid goes only to Abbas's
presidential guard.

