

Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett on Tuesday renewed Britain's
support for Turkey's bid to join the European Union, but raised
doubts over Turkish expectations for London to allow direct
flights from the breakaway Turkish territory in divided Cyprus.


"We strive to be always (Turkey's) staunchest ally" in its EU
membership efforts, Beckett told reporters here after talks with
her Turkish counterpart Abdullah Gul.


"Joining the EU can be a difficult process. It was many years
before the United Kingdom was able to join," she said. "In every
case (of enlargement), the process has been difficult, it has
often been controversial but always it has been worth it for all
concerned."


The British government is "sure that it will be to the advantage
of the EU and to the advantage of Turkey when Turkey's membership
application succeeds," she added.


Beckett, however, appeared to dampen Ankara's expectations that
her government may allow direct flights to Britain from the
breakaway Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), which is
recognised only by Turkey.


Eager to break the territory's international isolation, the
Turkish Cypriot airline asked London's permission to operate
direct flights to Britain in November.


Beckett said the British authorities were still studying whether
this was legally possible, but added: "I fear that our advice
continues to be that there are very real legal difficulties."


Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots have been campaigning to have
transport and trade restrictions lifted since 2004, when Turkish
Cypriots voted overwhelmingly in favour of a UN peace plan to
reunify Cyprus.


The plan was killed off by a "no" vote by the Greek Cypriots,
whose government in the southern part of the island is
internationally recognised. They joined the EU in May that year.


Cyprus' three-decade division remains a major stumbling block for
Turkey's EU membership bid.


In December, the EU slowed down Turkey's accession process in
response to its refusal to grant trade priviliges to the Greek
Cypriots, freezing negotiations in eight of the 35 chapters that
candidates are required to complete.


Beckett was to meet with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
later Tuesday. She was to wrap up her visit Wednesday after talks
in Istanbul with Economy Minister Ali Babacan, who is also
Turkey's chief negotiator in EU accession talks.

