

The editor of the Wisden cricketing almanac, Matthew Engel, has
criticised the set-up in England, saying it is a bad situation
for both the players and paying public.


Engel, in the "Notes from the Editor" section in the 144th
edition which goes on sale on Wednesday, wrote: "The current set-
up is not merely the worst that has yet been invented, but
possibly the worst that could be imagined: the Championship
interspersed with three one-day competitions, turgidly organised
and distinguishable from each other only by the length of the
matches.


"The destruction of the once-beautiful knockout cup should be
used as a case study of blithering administrative idiocy. In
Washington, politicians get impeached for less.


"The best hope is that the counties and TV companies might be
persuaded to junk the 40-over thingy (Pro40 competition),
whatever it's called. No one now has the foggiest idea who is
playing who, what, when, how or why."


Engel added that England players had featured little for their
counties since the introduction of central contracts under
present coach Duncan Fletcher.


The benefits of the system to the national side are widely
recognised but Engel believes it has gone too far and players are
not getting enough cricket.


He wrote: "They benefit from playing in situations where there is
less pressure, less scrutiny, where they can work on flaws, and
regain confidence by overcoming lesser players and reminding
themselves that they are actually good at this game.


"Counties need to have some connection with their local heroes,
for everyone's sake. Why support Durham if you never, ever see
Paul Collingwood? A junior Lancashire player would have more
evidence for the existence of Father Christmas than Andrew
Flintoff.


"No one wants to go back to the days when counties could knacker
England fast bowlers with impunity. But now it is way, way out of
balance in the other direction."


Two England players are recognised for their achievements,
however, as Collingwood and Monty Panesar are named among the
almanac's traditional five cricketers of the year.


All-rounder Collingwood has shed his `one-day only' tag in the
past year to establish himself in the Test side, while left-armer
Panesar has emerged as the country's number one spinner.


Former England batsman Mark Ramprakash also received the accolade
after scoring 2,278 first-class runs for Surrey in 2006. Sri
Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene and Pakistan run machine Yousuf
Youhana are the other cricketers of the year.


Sri Lanka's master off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan is named is
the world's number one player, an award which differs from the
five cricketers as it can be won more than once.

