

Japan's highest court on Tuesday sided with Beijing over Taiwan
in a lengthy wrangle over a student dormitory that turned the
spotlight on Tokyo's policy toward China.


Taiwan had won previous lawsuits saying it owned the dormitory,
which has housed Chinese students in the western city of Kyoto
since World War II.


But Japan's Supreme Court overturned lower court rulings Tuesday,
saying Taipei had lost its right to file a claim as the
representative of China, after Tokyo decided in 1972 to recognise
Beijing instead.


"Taiwan's right to be represented (in the litigation) disappeared
with the 1972 Japan-China joint communique," Justice Tokiyasu
Fujita said.


China considers Taiwan -- where defeated Nationalists fled in
1949 after Mao Zedong's communists triumphed in the mainland's
civil war -- to be a province awaiting reunification, by force if
necessary.


It strongly protests any move that could imply recognition of
Taiwan as an independent country.


Taiwan bought the five-storey building in Kyoto in 1950, at a
time when it was recognised as China's legitimate government by
Tokyo.


In 1967, during the height of China's Cultural Revolution, Taiwan
filed a lawsuit seeking to evict pro-Beijing students.


But the case was still unresolved when Tokyo established
relations a few years later with Beijing and dropped its
recognition of Taipei.


An initial ruling supported the pro-Beijing students, saying the
dormitory legally belonged to communist China. But two subsequent
court rulings backed Taiwan, saying it still existed even if it
does not enjoy Japan's recognition.


The Japanese government has supported the pro-Beijing students,
due to its policy of recognising one China.


With the Supreme Court's ruling meaning Taiwan did not have the
right to be the plaintiff, the case was sent back to a Kyoto
district court for re-examination.


Taiwan said it had not decided on its next step.


"We will hold discussions and take our next step on this
litigation after reviewing the ruling," the Taiwanese foreign
ministry said in a Japanese- language statement.


The Chinese embassy in Tokyo and the Japanese government declined
to comment.

