

Veto-wielding Russia refused Tuesday to reveal how it would vote
on a UN resolution recommending independence for the Serbian
province of Kosovo, while reiterating its firm opposition to the
plan.


"I think it's premature to say who is going to vote and how,"
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said here after meeting his
Montenegrin counterpart, Milan Rocen.


UN mediator Martti Ahtisaari on Monday recommended supervised
independence for Kosovo as the only option for the breakaway
ethnic-Albanian majority province.


His plan has been welcomed by Kosovo Albanians but close Russian
ally Serbia, which sees the tiny Balkan territory as the cradle
of its religion and culture, has angrily rejected the proposal
and called for more dialogue.


Kosovo Albanians make up 90 percent of the province's population
of two million.


The United Nations has administered the Serbian province since
1999, after a NATO bombing campaign helped to drive out Serb
forces carrying out a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanian
separatist guerrillas and their supporters.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict. Thousands of Serbs have
fled the province since it became a UN protectorate, due to
reprisal attacks from ethnic Albanians.


Ahtisaari's plan is to be debated next month by the Security
Council, which must approve Kosovo's future status.


The German presidency of the European Union, the United States
and Britain threw their support behind the independence plan.


But Russia has implicitly threatened to use its veto power.


"The creation of an independent state of Kosovo will impose
severe and serious complications on the stability of Europe," the
foreign ministry said in a statement Tuesday.


Lavrov added: "Like (Serbia's neighbour) Montenegro, Russia
believes that all regional problems must be resolved by taking
into account the interests of the national peoples who populate
the region.


"We will support any solution which would be acceptable for
Belgrade and Pristina," he said, referring to the Serbian and
Kosovo capitals.


More than 13 months of UN-sponsored talks between Serbian and
Kosovo Albanian officials have failed to bring the two sides any
closer to compromise, leading Ahtisaari to conclude that the time
had come for the UN to decide.


Lavrov has earlier suggested that if Ahtisaari "has exhausted his
resources, we can surely find someone else to handle this issue."
Other Russian officials have said Moscow would like to see
Ahtisaari replaced.


In his report issued Monday, Ahtisaari made it clear that in the
initial phase international supervision of an independent Kosovo
would be required.

