

An Indian state ordered a probe on Tuesday into allegations that
a villager was forced into virtual slavery 27 years ago to repay
a sackful of rice he borrowed from a moneylender.


Jawahar Manjhi's charge shocked the administration of the
poverty-ridden eastern state of Bihar, where feudal landlords
backed by private armies are still believed to employ bonded
labour despite laws banning the practice.


Manjhi said he borrowed 40 kilograms (88 pounds) of rice from a
village moneylender in 1980 on the condition that he repay the
debt by working in the fields.


"It was agreed I would pay off one kilogram of rice with each day
of work," said Manjhi, who was 45 years old when he took the loan
to feed guests at a family wedding.


But abject poverty and hunger drove him to borrow more, Manjhi
told reporters in his impoverished village of Paliganj, 40
kilometres (25 miles) from the state capital, Patna.


"Originally the loan was about 40 kilos and now 27 years on I
don't know how much I've repaid and how much more I still owe the
lender," said Manjhi, a father of four children, at his single-
roomed mud-baked hut.


The case came to light after it was reported by a local social
rights group.


The tormentor promised to free Manjhi if he paid 5,000 rupees
(111 dollars) which would include accumulated interest, the
villager said, but added he did not understand the basis of the
calculation of the loan and did not have the money.


Manjhi said "there are many more like me."


The report prompted authorities to send a team to Paliganj on
Tuesday.


"We have taken cognisance of this report and ordered an enquiry,"
state home secretary Afzal Amanullah said.


Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi said he was shocked at
the report.


"Once a formal complaint is lodged, then we will take legal
action," Modi said, as rights groups seized on the story to
demand tougher action against bonded labour.


"The government must immediately ensure compensation for the
victim and impose a heavy fine on the lender who used him as
bonded labour," said Ashok Priyadarshi, a lawyer who handles
rights abuses in Bihar.


"It's shameful that practices are still rampant in Bihar and the
government must deal with it," said Sanat Sinha, chief of Bal
Sakha, a social welfare group.


Some 20 percent of India's 1.1 billion people live below the
official poverty line, as the country's blistering economic
growth of around nine percent creates hubs of affluence in the
larger cities.


Hundreds of farmers, especially in the cotton-growing states of
Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have committed suicide in recent
years after failed crops and amid crushing debt.

