

Southern African leaders, under fire  over their softly-softly
approach to the Zimbabwe crisis, will bid to persuade President
Robert Mugabe to engage with the opposition when they meet
Wednesday.


The two-day extraordinary summit of the 14-nation Southern
African Development Community (SADC), hosted by Tanzanian
President Jakaya Kikwete, will also feature talks on the
situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo, but the main focus
is expected to be on the recent unrest in Zimbabwe.


While Western nations have been lacerating in their condemnation
of Mugabe since opposition leaders were arrested and then
assaulted ahead of a planned anti- government rally earlier this
month, SADC countries have been noticeably more muted in their
response, even if they have most to lose from the fallout.


Quite apart from the political unrest, an inflation rate of 1,730
percent and unemployment rate of 80 percent has led around three
million Zimbabweans to emigrate and caused the virtual collapse
of an important market for the region.


Mugabe, who has consistently warned against outside
"interference", is set to use the summit to justify his crackdown
on the Movement for Democratic Change and portray the opposition
as representing a threat to state security.


Presidential spokesman George Charamba was quoted as saying in
the state-run Herald newspaper that Mugabe would "brief his
colleagues on the situation in the country in the wake of the MDC
violence", reiterating accusations the party was a puppet of
Zimbabwe's Western critics.


However a Tanzanian foreign ministry official said Mugabe and his
ZANU-PF party would come under pressure to open talks with the
MDC, whose leader Morgan Tsvangirai was among those beaten after
their arrest on March 11.


"Nothing is impossible. I believe they (the SADC leaders) have
the power to convince," said the official, speaking on condition
of anonymity.


"Who knows? Mugabe may agree even if he is not necessarily the
one to hold talks."


South Africa, a critic of what it calls "megaphone diplomacy",
has also been trying to push for talks among the rival sides on
the basis that only dialogue among the "main political
protagonists" could bring about a lasting solution.


Some members of SADC have questioned the effectivness of quiet
diplomacy towards Zimbabwe but they remain keen to keep the
problem in house.


Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa likened Zimbabwe last week to "a
sinking Titanic" but insisted it was not for others outside the
region to interfere.


"I wish to state categorically that the Zambian government
excludes the direct or indirect involvement of any foreign state
which is not a SADC member," he said.


While the opposition in Zimbabwe has criticised African countries
over their response, some senior figures agree Western
intervention is counterproductive.


"The only people who have a legitimate role to talk about
Zimbabwe are Africans," said Arthur Mutambara, a leader of a
breakaway MDC faction.


The United States has been among those who have criticised the
policy of quiet diplomacy and want SADC to do more.


"I think the moment has come to realise the policy of quiet
diplomacy has not produced results ... It has not changed Robert
Mugabe's behaviour in any way," said Christopher Dell, the US
ambassador to Harare.


Archishop Desmond Tutu, who won the Nobel prize for his
campaigning against apartheid in South Africa, has also said that
African leaders should "hold our heads in shame for allowing what
has happened in Zimbabwe".


According to Azaveeli Rwaitama, a political scientist in the
University of Dar es Salaam, it would be a mistake for the
Zimbabwean opposition to count on the SADC leaders to help push
out Mugabe.


"Tsvangirai should not expect the SADC leaders to install him as
the president. That is up to his party and the people of Zimbabwe
to do that job," he said.

