

The winner of Mauritania's first democratic presidential vote
faces huge hurdles in righting the country's recent slave
history, boosting living standards and proving his independence
from the exiting junta, observers said Tuesday.


Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, a former political prisoner who won a
second and final election round on Sunday, most urgently needs to
"prove that he is independent and will respect his promises,"
said Mohamed Fall Ould Oumer, an editorialist with independent
daily La Tribune.


The 69-year-old former government minister, who is set to become
Mauritania's first democratically elected president since the
country won independence from France in 1960, has vowed to
establish the rule of law after decades of dictatorship and
military rule.


He has also pledged to cement national unity in Mauritania, a
multi-ethnic northwestern African country still struggling with
its history of slavery, which was only officially abolished in
1981 but which many claim continues virtually unabated to this
day.


During his campaign, Abdallahi vowed that remaining cases of
slavery would be "severely punished," and that former slaves and
their decendents would benefit from "positive discrimination."


With his adversaries maintaining that his candidacy was backed by
the military junta that ousted Mauritania's long-time dictator
Maaouiya Ould Taya two years ago, Abdallahi will especially need
to prove his autonomy, Oumer said.


"He must also urgently ensure that the army is removed far from
the political field and solve the questions of human rights, and
energetically start reforging the foundations of the united
state," the editorialist said.


Economist Ahmed Ould Dah meanwhile said that Abdallahi's main
challenge will be improving the Mauritanian people's standard of
living, which "is deteriorating every day despite incontestable
macro-economic results."


One out of two of the country's 3.1 million inhabitants lives
under the poverty line, despite the opening of offshore oil
fields a year ago.


"Households need to feel the effects of the oil and other riches
of the country in their stomachs," he said, adding that salaries
also needed to be increased and more jobs created.


Sunday's election, in which Agdallahi beat longtime opposition
politician Ahmed Ould Daddah, was the final stage of democratic
reforms led by the military junta that ousted Ould Taya in August
2005.


The new president will be invested on April 19 and can serve a
maximum of two five-year terms.

