

England stars Steven Gerrard and John Terry have rallied to the
defence of under-fire manager Steve McClaren, and admitted that
the players must share the blame for the side's recent woes.


Liverpool midfielder Gerrard said he and his team-mates accepted
that they were equally responsible for the poor recent results
which have left England struggling to qualify for Euro 2008.


"The players have got take a lot of responsibility for the
manager taking it in the neck," Gerrard said as England prepared
for Wednesday's clash with group E minnows Andorra, which should
allow McClaren's men to end a five-match winless run in which
they have managed to score only one goal.


"It is us that are going out there under-performing, under-
achieving if you like and we do feel partly responsible for the
criticism that he has taken."


McClaren's troubled seven-month reign as England's head coach
reached a new low on Tuesday when he was widely ridiculed by the
media for claiming that only a combination of bad luck and poor
finishing had prevented his side from transforming Saturday's
goalless draw with Israel into a victory.


The former Middlesbrough boss had also been forced to deny claims
of a bust-up with star striker Wayne Rooney which has fuelled
speculation of dressing room divisions.


Terry said such claims were wide of the mark while Gerrard
insisted that the players did not share the widespread doubts
over whether McClaren should have been promoted to the top job
after serving as a number two to Sven-Goran Eriksson.


"We definitely believe in him, all the players are behind him,"
Gerrard said. "He is preparing us right, he is coaching us right,
he is telling us the right things. It is us players that are not
getting the right results for him and the fans.


"We understand that people expect a lot and there is going to be
a lot of pressure. This game is all about results and our results
have not been acceptable of late so we take the criticism on the
chin and move on."


McClaren is expected to make at least one change to the line-up
that started in Israel with Manchester City teenager Micah
Richards set to come in at right-back in place of Phil Neville.


Against opponents who were beaten 5-0 by England in McClaren's
first competitive match in charge, the coach must also decide
whether to persevere with Everton's Andrew Johnson as a forward
partner for Rooney or give Jermain Defoe the chance he craves.


The manager is also condemned to yet another attempt to reshape
his midfield following a display in Israel which offered further
evidence for those who argue that England have spent too long
attempting to find a formula to get the best out of both Frank
Lampard and Gerrard.


To date, McClaren has shown no inclination to drop either of
them, and Terry's comments suggested that Lampard's place in the
side remains safe.


"Frank has scored so many goals (for England) that when he does
not score for two or three games it is highlightlighted even
more," the England captain said, arguing that his Chelsea team-
mate had been the subject of unfair criticism.


"The main thing is that Steve McClaren the manager feels Frank is
doing enough and we certainly feel as a group of players that he
is."


As a result, it is more likely that there will be some fresh
tinkering of the midfield with Gerrard, who played on the right
against Israel, possibly restored to the central attacking role,
Lampard pushed out to the left and Aaron Lennon deployed in his
most natural slot, down the right wing.


Alternatively, given the opposition, McClaren may feel he can
dispense with Owen Hargreaves as a holding midfielder and play
Lampard and Gerrard together through the middle with Lennon and
his former Middlesbrough protege Stewart Downing operating on
either wing.

