

Prosecutors in Munich have arrested a  management board member at
Siemens, Johannes Feldmayer, in an investigation into alleged
bribery at the engineering giant, a company spokeswoman said on
Tuesday.


Feldmayer is the most senior Siemens manager to be arrested in a
series of different probes into allegations of widespread
corruption and embezzlement which have rocked the company in
recent months.


The arrest of Feldmayer was connected with a separate
investigation into alleged payments made by the company to the
head of the AUB labour organization, Wilhelm Schelsky, the
spokeswoman said.


In the other main high-profile slush-fund scandal, prosecutors
allege that company managers siphoned off hundreds of millions of
euros in Siemens money to obtain foreign contracts,


Siemens was cooperating fully with the authorities and would
continue to do so, the spokeswoman added.


Feldmayer's arrest came after prosecutors raided Siemens offices
in Munich, Erlangen and Nuremberg.


Schelsky, a former works council member at Siemens, was arrested
last month.


Siemens has been plagued by separate corruption allegations in
recent months, prompting chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld to hire
an outside anti-corruption expert and a law firm to examine and
revise the company's safeguards.


In November, German prosecutors launched a massive probe at
Siemens, raiding the offices and homes of a number of Siemens
employees amid suspicions of embezzlement, bribery and tax
evasion.


A number of current and former employees at the fixed networks
division, including top-ranking managers, have been held for
questioning on the matter.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.


Prosecutors put the sum held in the accounts at 200 million euros
(266 million dollars) and some of that money may have been used
as bribes to obtain contracts abroad.


Siemens itself said that it had uncovered as much as 420 million
euros in suspicious payments as part of the probe.

