

A majority of Americans favor pulling US troops out of Iraq by
fall 2008, but oppose cutting off funds to the 140,000 soldiers
in the country, according to a poll published Tuesday.


The Gallup-USA Today poll came as Democrats were pushing a bill
which ties funding for the war to a timetable to withdraw US
combat troops from Iraq by August 31, 2008 set to be voted on
this week.


Of the 1,007 people polled over the weekend, 60 percent support
withdrawing from Iraq in 2008, but 61 percent oppose cutting
funding for the troops in the country, which is in the grip of a
violent insurgency that has killed hundreds of people a week.


Fifty-three percent of those polled believed the insurgency would
grow if the number of US soldiers in the volatile capital was
lowered. Troops have been there since the US led an invasion in
2003 to oust the late dictator Saddam Hussein.


President George W. Bush has vowed to veto the Democrats' bill if
it includes a set timetable. Republicans have asked for time for
Bush's troop surge strategy, aimed at quelling raging violence in
Iraq, to yield results.


The proposed withdrawal timetable was inserted into a 121.6
billion dollar war spending bill endorsed by the Democrat-
majority House of Representatives on Friday, which has passed to
the Senate for debate.


The poll showed 34 percent approval for Bush's strategy in Iraq.
Fifty-six percent thought the US "made a mistake" in sending
troops to Iraq in the first place.


Another survey by the Zogby polling institute meanwhile showed
that a majority of Americans -- nearly three quarters -- believe
Iran is providing military assistance to insurgents in its
neighbor Iraq.


However, 45 percent of people polled said backing Iraqi
insurgents was not sufficient cause for US military action
against Iran. More than a third favoured such action.


The Zogby poll showed 59 percent viewing Iran as posing a threat,
against 14 percent for North Korea and four percent each for Iraq
and Afghanistan.


A majority of 68 percent believed the US should use diplomacy to
negotiate with Iran over its nuclear program, which Washington
and other world powers fear is aimed at acquiring an atomic bomb.
Tehran insists the program is to generate energy for civilian
purposes.


The poll showed 39 percent of the US respondents believed that
Iran wants to develop a bomb.

