

The emergence of the Tamil Tigers as the world's first guerrilla
outfit with its own planes could be a threat to South Asian
security, Sri Lanka's president said Tuesday.


The rebels on Monday successfully flew over the island's main
military airbase and escaped unscathed after dropping several
bombs.


"The LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) using combat
aircraft is not only a problem for us. It is a threat to other
nations too," President Mahinda Rajapakse was quoted as saying by
his office.


Rajapakse has also ordered an investigation into the major
security lapses that allowed the attack -- which has seriously
embarrassed the island's defence establishment -- to take place
even though the planes were spotted on radar.


"Ours is not the only country facing a terrorist threat. At a
time when India, Indonesia and several other countries face this
problem, it is significant that the LTTE has acquired an air
capability," the president said.


Military analysts say the Tigers, who are known to possess at
least two Czech- built Zlin-143 single-engine four-seater
aircraft and an airfield, could be the world's first rebel outfit
to use its own planes in a combat role.


In May last year, Sri Lanka's airforce bombed the rebel airfield
at Iranamadu, in the rebel-held Wanni region. The Tigers had also
denied access to the area to Scandinavian truce monitors.


Despite a February 2002 truce arranged by peace broker Norway,
both the Tigers and government forces have been locked in a new
wave of fighting since December 2005.


In India, security experts and officials agreed that the LTTE's
action was a cause for concern, but were divided over a strategy
to tackle the rebels.


"Whatever happens in the neighbourhood will affect India,
directly or indirectly, sooner or later," D.R. Karthikeyan, a top
security expert who probed the LTTE's 1991 assassination of
former premier Rajiv Gandhi, told Times Now TV network.


"We have to impress upon the Sri Lankan government that peace is
possible only when there is justice," he added, repeating
international calls for a compromise in the long-running war.


Indian opposition leader Subramoniam Swamy, an outspoken critic
of the Tigers, said New Delhi had to wake up to the LTTE's new
military reach.


"The LTTE is not only operational in Sri Lanka: it has links with
all terrorist groups in India," Swamy told reporters.


"I have maintained that we all in the region must have clarity,
and that will come if we say the LTTE is part of the problem and
not part of the solution," he said, pushing for a tougher Indian
line against the rebels.

