

The international community's envoy to Bosnia said Tuesday he
would prevent Srebrenica Muslims from carrying out a threat to
separate the town from the country's Serb-run entity.


Christian Schwarz-Schilling "would have no choice but to take
robust action" if the Muslim majority municipal council of the
eastern town tried to break away from Republika Srpska, his
spokesman Mario Brkic said.


He described as "unconstitutional" a weekend resolution by the
council demanding the town be allowed to break away to fall under
exclusive jurisdiction of Bosnia's central government.


Meanwhile, Srebrenica Mayor Abdurahman Malkic told AFP the
"resolution presented an initiative to change the status of the
municipality."


"There are negotiations ahead of us," he added.


According to Malkic, the resolution also stated the council would
unilaterally pass the decision to split from Republika Srpska if
the status was not changed by July 11, the 12-year anniversary of
the Srebrenica massacre by Serb forces.


Bosnian Serb Prime Minister Milorad Dodik dismissed the
resolution as illegal and threatened to abolish the local
government.


"If the municipal authorities in Srebrenica continue to violate
the laws and constitution of Republika Srpska, the government
will not hesitate to abolish local government institutions," he
said.


Since its 1992-1995 war, Bosnia has been made up of the Serb-run
Republika Srpska and the Muslim-Croat Federation. The two highly
independent entities are linked by weak central government.


In the final months of the conflict, Srebrenica was the scene of
one of the worst atrocities in Europe since World War II, when
local Serb forces overran the then UN-protected enclave,
summarily killing 8,000 Muslim men and boys.


The resolution was adopted after the International Court of
Justice last month confirmed that the massacre amounted to
genocide.


Some Muslim politicians have since argued that the ruling proved
Bosnia's Serb- run half was created on genocide and should be
abolished.


Under the Dayton peace accords that ended the war, Srebrenica
fell under the auspices of Republika Srpska.


The two main suspects wanted by the UN war crimes court over
Srebrenica, Bosnian Serb wartime leader Radovan Karadzic and his
military chief Ratko Mladic, remain at large.

