

Pakistan's cricket chief Tuesday promised legislators that
players will get legal aid if they are summoned to Jamaica for
questioning over the murder of coach Bob Woolmer, a senator said.


Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Naseem Ashraf was also asked when
he appeared before the senate committee for sports about the
team's poor performance at the World Cup, where Pakistan were
dumped out by Ireland.


Senator Anwar Baig, a member of the committee, said "we asked the
chairman why no legal assistance was provided to the players in
Jamaica when they were facing the investigation."


"Ashraf said the board will do it in future if required," Baig
told AFP after the nearly two-hour hearing in Islamabad.


Jamaican police questioned the whole team once and captain
Inzamam-ul-Haq, assistant coach Mushtaq Ahmed and manager Talat
Ali twice after Woolmer's death. The squad also gave DNA samples
and fingerprints.


Ashraf said in an opening statement to the committee that if any
player was required by Jamaican police for further investigations
the PCB would provide him with full legal assistance, committee
sources said.


He also reiterated to the committee that no Pakistani players or
officials were involved in the murder or in match-fixing.


He added that if anyone had evidence about match-fixing it should
be shared with the PCB and they would investigate it, along with
the International Cricket Council, the sources said.


Woolmer was found strangled in his hotel in Jamaica hours after
Ireland's shock win over the highly-fancied Pakistanis, leading
to suspicions that match-fixing gangs may have been involved.


Vice captain Younis Khan and leading batsman Mohammad Yousuf
arrived in the southern port city of Karachi late on Monday, a
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) official said.


Others, including Inzamam, are expected home from a stopover in
London late Tuesday or early Wednesday, the official said.


Pakistani police said they had taken security measures for the
players in order to avoid any problems with angry fans on their
return to their cricket-obsessed homeland.

