

Officials from G8 nations undertook here on Tuesday to set up
micro-credit facilities for African nations with the help of the
World Bank.


German Development Minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul said giving
poor Africans access to credit would be at the top of the agenda
when leaders of the Group of Eight wealthiest nations meet in
Germany in June.


"The G8 will do everything it can to institute micro-financing to
which the poorest in Africa can have access, in particular
women," Wieczorek-Zeul said at the end of a two-day meeting in
Berlin held to prepare for the summit.


She said officials from the G8 and Africa met here with
representatives of the African Development Bank, which will be
asked to help institute the system along with the World Bank to
stimulate job creation and economic growth in the world's poorest
continent.


Micro-credit is a system of small loans granted to people without
collateral or steady jobs.


A few African nations, including Rwanda and Mali, have micro-
credit financing projects based on the model developed by
Bangladesh's so-called "Banker to the Poor" Muhammad Yunus who
won the Nobel Peace Prize last year for his work.


The World Bank estimates that there are just over 7,000
microfinancing institutions, serving 16 million people around the
world


Wieczorek-Zeul said G8 leaders will also announce more funding
for the fight against AIDS, which afflicts Africa more than any
other continent, and to increase investment in the region when
they meet in Heiligendamm from June 6-8.


"We have to replenish the Global Fund to Fight Aids. It is
important that the G8 makes a contribution."


She put no figure on new G8 pledges for the fund, which was
established in 2001.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called for the Heiligendamm
summit to build on promises made when G8 leaders met in
Gleneagles, Scotland, in 2005 to increase development aid to
Africa.


Germany holds the presidency of the G8 and Merkel's cabinet is
reported to have drafted a proposal that each member of the club
sign a partnership agreement with an African country, with
preference given to democratic, investor-friendly states.


EU Development Commissioner Louis Michel said here Tuesday
however that efforts to fight corruption will not be the only
criteria the G8 uses when deciding which African nations to help.


"We will look at countries that seek to provide their populations
with access to vital services like health and education," he
said.


Earlier this month, the heads of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and World Bank urged developed countries to boost the flow
of aid to Africa and to ease up on the conditions being attached
to development funding.


Africa has shown economic growth in recent years but not enough
to meet the so- called Millennium Development Goals which
includes halving extreme poverty by 2015.

