

Clashes in the Democratic Republic of Congo capital last week
left between 200 and 500 dead, the German ambassador said Tuesday
as European Union envoys expressed concern at the force used by
government troops against political opponents.


The figure came from hospital sources, aid groups and diplomats,
the German envoy, Karl-Albrecht Wokalek, told a press conference
given by 14 EU ambassadors.


Government troops fought fighters loyal to former vice president
Jean-Pierre Bemba in Kinshasa on Thursday and Friday and scores
of civilians were among the victims.


The Caritas aid group had previously given an estimate of 155
dead and 150 badly wounded while the last government toll spoke
of 60 dead.


"There were enormous numbers of civilian casualties. Shells fell
on the district, on homes. We will probably never know the exact
number of victims," Britain's ambassador Andy Sparkes told
journalists.


In a joint statement, the ambassadors said there were numerous
cases of rape and pillage by both sides. The Spanish and Greek
embassies and the UNICEF offices in Kinshasa were bombed during
the fighting.


They condemned what they called "the premature use of force while
not all paths of negotiation had been exhausted" between the
government and Bemba.


Government forces unleashed their offensive after Bemba refused
to integrate his militia into the army. Bemba has sought refuge
at the South African embassy while President Joseph Kabila's
government has issued treason charges against him.


The EU ambassadors said they were seeking a diplomatic solution
for Bemba and called on Kabila's government "to do everything to
assure the existence of a democratic space in order to guarantee
the free expression of all political opinions."


Bemba lost to Kabila in the presidential election last year,
stepping up rivalry between the two.


Kabila on Monday defended the use of force to quash what he
described as an armed rebellion by Bemba's fighters.


"Order had to be restored at any cost," Kabila said, accusing
Bemba's militia of trying to seize control of the capital.


"You do not guarantee security through negotiation," he told
reporters, in an apparent response to the mounting international
calls from the United Nations, the African Union and various
countries for dialogue.


About 2,000 troops had fought Bemba's 700 fighters in the Gombe
district of the capital on Thursday and Friday.


Most of Bemba's fighters have fled or agreed to join government
forces, but 107 have taken refuge at the United Nations mission
in Kinshasa, fearing for their lives, the UN said.


Bemba said he was prepared to go into exile if his security could
not be guaranteed by Kinshasa. In an interview with the Paris
daily Le Monde he accused Kabila of wanting to "get rid" of him.


"We are at a turning point in our history, because if they
continue to decapitate the opposition, a new dictatorship will be
established," he said.


But Kabila denied any intention of making the DRC a one-party
state.


"I would be the last person to violate the constitution. Setting
up a single party smacks of high treason," he said.


The DRC was the centre of a brutal five-yea-long war from 1998.
Hundreds of thousands of people were killed and at its height,
the conflict in the former Zaire drew in seven foreign armies.

