

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon flew into war-torn Baghdad on
Thursday for previously unannounced talks with Iraqi Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki, inaugurating his first visit to the
Middle East.


True to form for top diplomatic visits to the most dangerous
capital on earth, Ban's presence was only made public after he
touched down on the first leg of his first major overseas tour
since taking office three months ago.


Ban was quickly ushered into talks with Maliki, whose disparate
coalition is blamed at least in part for some of the sectarian
Shiite-Sunni violence that continues to blight Baghdad despite an
ongoing US-led security push.


"He will be meeting Prime Minister Maliki and other government
officials," local UN spokesman Said Erekat told AFP, saying the
talks would focus on recent events in Iraq and the role the
United Nations has to play.


"He will be meeting with parliament members and he will be
meeting different political groups' leaderships and the
diplomatic corps," the spokesman added.


An official in Maliki's office later confirmed that the premier
was meeting Ban, ahead of a joint news conference.


Ban's visit to Iraq, whose relations with the world body are
traditionally troubled, is the first by a UN secretary general
since his predecessor, Kofi Annan, came to Baghdad in November
2005.


A brutal bombing on the UN headquarters in Baghdad on August 19,
2003 killed 22 people, including UN envoy Sergio Vieira de Mello.


The United Nations was also unpopular after the Security Council
imposed  in 1991 the widest-ranging set of sanctions in its
history, including a ban on oil exports after former president
Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait.


Aides said one of Ban's priorities during his Middle East tour
will be the UN role in the Iraq Compact for economic development,
just one week after the United Nations hosted an international
conference focused on the country.


The International Compact with Iraq (ICI) initiative between Iraq
and the international community was established in July with
World Bank support.


Last Friday, Vice President Adel Abdel Mahdi laid out a five-year
economic revival plan before nearly 90 countries which will
review Iraq's progress in carrying out reforms in exchange for
international aid and debt relief.


Ban's visit also comes with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees
organising an April 17-18 international conference in Geneva to
examine how to deal with hundreds of thousands of Iraqis
displaced since the 2003 US-led war.


The UNHCR calls Iraqi displacement the biggest in the Middle East
since the Palestinian refugee crisis when Israel was created in
1948 and estimates that some two million Iraqis are living in
neighbouring countries.


Many of them left before Saddam was toppled four years ago, and
another 1.9 million are estimated to be displaced within Iraq,
according to the UNHCR.


Ban was visiting Baghdad with US and Iraqi troops waging a
massive security operation that will see 25,000 extra troops
deployed in a bid to control Baghdad and quell deadly sectarian
warfare between Sunnis and Shiites.


On Thursday the US military announced that three more American
soldiers had been killed in Iraq, bringing the latest deaths in
the four years since the invasion to 3,225, according to an AFP
tally based on Pentagon figures.


The US Army said troops had dismantled a car bomb factory and
seized stashes of nitric acid and chlorine in the capital, less
than a week after 350 civilians required hospital treatment after
a toxic chlorine gas attack.


In Iraq's second city of Basra, gunmen loyal to two rival Shiite
parties clashed. Although security forces quickly resumed control
the incident will be seen as a worrying sign of intra-Shiite
tension.


In the United States, an American soldier has been sentenced to
27 months in prison for being an accessory to the rape and murder
of a 14-year-old Iraqi girl and the killing of her family, the US
military said.


Private First Class Bryan Howard, 19, was sentenced at Fort
Campbell, Kentucky on Wednesday after he pleaded guilty to the
accessory charge as well as conspiracy to obstruct justice, the
military said.

