

Lawyers held fresh protests over the removal of Pakistan's chief
justice Thursday, as an inquiry into the beating of attorneys by
police at another demonstration got under way.


President Pervez Musharraf has faced the biggest threat to his
military rule since suspending Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad
Chaudhry on March 9, a move that sparked nationwide
demonstrations and strikes.


Around 3,000 lawyers boycotted court proceedings and blocked a
road ahead of a legal convention in the northwestern city of
Peshawar on Thursday, witnesses said.


Waving black flags and banners, they shouted "Go Musharraf go"
and "We want freedom."


On Wednesday police fired tear gas and baton-charged around 100
lawyers in Quetta, the capital of southwestern Baluchistan
province, when they tried to hold a protest in front of the
provincial governor's residence, witnesses said.


The acting chief justice, Javed Iqbal, on Thursday ordered a
senior judge at Baluchistan High Court to conduct a judicial
probe into the incident and submit a report within a week, court
officials said.


Iqbal gave the order after a complaint filed by the vice
president of the Supreme Court Bar Association and summoned top
police and administration officials to his court, the officials
said on condition of anonymity.


Separately Chaudhry's legal team said the suspended chief justice
had accepted invitations to address lawyers in different cities,
in an apparent move to keep the momentum going in their campaign
for his reinstatement.


"Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry will address lawyers in Rawalpindi and
Peshawar on March 28 and 30 respectively," one of Chaudhry's
lawyers, Hamid Khan, told AFP.


Lawyers say they will also boycott courts across the country on
April 3 when Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council is to hold its
next hearing into allegations of misconduct and abuse of office
against Chaudhry.


Eight judges and a deputy attorney general have already resigned
in protest.


Chaudhry denies the charges, including that he unfairly gained
promotions for his son and insisted on the use of cars and
aircraft to which he was not entitled.


The judicial council will be led by judge Rana Bhagwandas, who is
due to take over as acting chief justice at the weekend after
returning to Pakistan late Wednesday from holiday in India.

