

The number of people living in acute poverty in India has fallen
to nearly 22 percent from 26 percent in a five-year period, an
economic policy-making body said.


The survey by India's Planning Commission showed that the number
of people in acute poverty in 2004-05 totalled 238.5 million out
of the country's population of 1.1 billion.


The poverty estimate for 2004-05 was 21.8 percent of the
population and was compiled by monitoring spending on five key
"non-food" items -- clothing, footwear, durable goods, education
and institutional medical expenses.


The figures were "roughly" comparable with an estimate of 26.1
percent in 1999-2000, said the planning commission in a statement
on its web site on Thursday.


In 1993-94, the number of people living in deep poverty was 36
percent, said the commission.


India's most populous state of Uttar Pradesh had the largest
number of poor with 45.8 million followed by neighbouring Bihar
with 29 million.


The Planning Commission's figures came at a time when Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh's Communist-backed government is facing
flak over its economic liberalisation policies and growing
inflation.


Market reforms introduced in 1991 have created many Indian
millionaires but the country has also reported suicides by
hundreds of debt-ridden farmers.


India, considered Asia's fourth largest economy, grew by an
average nearly eight percent during the five-year period under
study and is expected to grow by at least nine percent for the
current financial year to March 31.


A survey by the Hindustan Times newspaper in January found that
only three percent of Indians understood the economic reforms
being implemented while a majority felt the changes in policy
benefitted only the rich.


Singh has said double-digit economic growth is needed to make a
significant dent in poverty.


India's finance ministry defines the official poverty line for
people living in cities as 300 rupees (6.6 dollars) a month and
275 rupees in rural areas -- enough to buy food to supply 2,200
calories of energy per day.

