

State-owned Bank of China has "concerns" that need to be
addressed before it can transfer 25 million dollars to North
Korea, a senior Chinese official said Thursday.


Practical problems have arisen as to how to transfer the assets,
which have been frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 due to US
sanctions, said China's top envoy to six-nation nuclear talks
after they broke down over the money issue.


"Although the Bank of China will be able to undertake this
transaction, we need to consult with them," Wu Dawei told a
briefing in Beijing.


"The bank has its own concerns, and the government needs to help
them in addressing these concerns."


The United States on Monday announced that the money, frozen due
to US accusations of money laundering and counterfeiting, could
now be released, raising hopes of progress at nuclear disarmament
talks in Beijing this week.


But those negotiations ended abruptly Thursday when North Korea's
chief envoy flew home because the cash had still not been
transferred to a North Korean account at the Bank of China in
Beijing.


The Bank of China -- one of the nation's four state-owned
commercial lenders -- said earlier on Thursday that it had not
yet been asked to transfer the money.


"Up to now we have not been asked to do this business," Li Lihui,
the vice chairman and president of the Bank of China, told
reporters in Hong Kong.


Wu told the briefing that apart from state-controlled bank's own
concerns, procedural issues made the transfer difficult.


"If you want to remit money more than 10,000 dollars, you need to
go through a settlement center in the United States. Even for
this amount to through all the relevant procedures will take at
least one week," he said.


He said various practical solutions had been discussed, including
writing a check to North Korea, or transmitting the money in
cash.


Wu also said he had suggested that an unidentified South Korean
foreign exchange bank with a branch in North Korea could handle
the transaction, but did not indicate how South Korea had
responded or give any other details.

