

An experiment involving genetically engineered mice illustrates
how our earliest primate ancestors acquired full color vision
tens of millions of years ago, and demonstrates just how
adaptable mammalian brains are, a study released Thursday said.


By genetically engineering mice with a human gene that codes for
a light sensor that the rodents do not usually possess, the
researchers were able to create transgenic mice that could see in
full color.


Mice, like most mammals, have dichromatic vision.


They typically view the world with a limited color palette, which
in human terms registers yellows, blues and grays.


Their brains did not evolve to handle the more complex color
spectrum that among mammals is the unique preserve of primates
and which allows humans to see five colors in a rainbow,
according to the study in the journal Science.


In order to be sure that these transgenic mice could "rewire"
their brains to use the new visual information, the researchers
used a classic preference test.


Mice set before three light panels were trained to touch the one
panel that appeared to differ from the other two. A correct
answer was rewarded with a drop of soy milk.


The genetically engineered mice chose the correct panel in 80
percent of the trials, while a "control" group of normal mice
chose correctly one third of the time -- a score that could be
arrived at by guessing randomly among the three panels.


The new abilities of the genetically engineered mice indicate
that the mammalian brain possesses a flexibility that permits a
nearly instantaneous upgrade in the complexity of color vision,
the authors of the study wrote.


"If you gave mice a new sensory input at the front end, could
their brains learn to make use of the extra data at the back
end?" said Jeremy Nathans, a professor of molecular biology and
genetics, neuroscience and ophthalmology at Johns Hopkins School
of Medicine.


"The answer is, remarkably, yes. They did not acquire additional
generations to evolve new sight."


The experiment mimics how our earliest primate ancestors acquired
trichromatic vision, by "engineering" genetic changes that made
the mice produce a third photoreceptor that registered longer
wavelengths of light, Nathans said.


"What we are looking at in these mice is the same evolutionary
event that happened in one of the distant ancestors of all
primates and that led ultimately to the trichromatic color vision
that we now enjoy," said Nathans.


Mammals that have trichromatic vision have three types of light
sensitive cells in the retina fine-tuned to wavelengths that
appear blue, green and red.


Researchers think this kind of vision evolved about 40 million
years ago, or more, when an early ancestral primate inherited an
additional, or third, photoreceptor thanks to random mutations
that created a variant of one receptor gene located on the
X-chromosome.


The study appears in the journal Science and was conducted by
researchers at Johns Hopkins and the University of California
Santa Barbara.

