

International efforts to end North Korea's nuclear weapons
programme remain on track despite the suspension of six-nation
negotiations here on Thursday, the chief US envoy said.


"The six-party process continues to be on track," Christopher
Hill told reporters. "It is our strong view that we are on
schedule to meet the 60-day requirement."


Under a six-nation accord signed on February 13, North Korea said
it would shut down its main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and allow
UN atomic inspectors back into the country within 60 days.


In return, the impoverished North Korea would receive 50,000
tonnes of fuel for energy use.


Hill also said he felt the Yongbyon reactor could be "disabled"
by the end of the year as part of the longer-term efforts to
permanently and irreversibly end the North's nuclear weapons
programme.


"I believe we will be able to make a timetable for disablement
within this calendar year," Hill said.


"But you know, disablement is not our goal. Disarmament is our
goal."


According to the February accord, North Korea, which conducted
its first atomic weapons test in October last year, would receive
one million tonnes of heavy fuel or equivalent energy aid if it
permanently dismantled its nuclear weapons programme.


The latest round of six-nation talks began on Monday amid high
hopes major progress would be made in cementing the accord after
the United States said it would allow the return of 25 million
dollars of frozen North Korean assets.


But North Korea refused to negotiate until the cash, which had
been frozen in a Macau bank due to US accusations of money
laundering and counterfeiting, was safely back in its coffers.


By late Thursday the cash had still not been transferred to a
North Korean account at the Bank of China in Beijing, and
Pyongyang's envoy in the Chinese capital boarded a plane and flew
home.


At the same time, a senior Bank of China official said it had not
yet been asked to get involved in any transfer.


Hill said the dispute over the money showed the problems with
North Korea, one of the most politically isolated and secretive
nations in the world.


"To me this highlights the degree of the DPRK's isolation, it has
been difficult to return money to them even when everyone wants
to return money to them," Hill said.

