

Bank of China said Thursday that it had not yet been asked to
handle a transfer of 25 million dollars of North Korean assets in
a dispute that has thrown disarmament talks into disarray.


"Up to now we have not been asked to do this business," Li Lihui,
the vice chairman and president of the Bank of China, told
reporters in Hong Kong.


The assets have been frozen in a Macau bank since 2005 amid US
accusations of money laundering and counterfeiting by North
Korea.


The United States earlier this week announced that the money
could now be released, raising hopes of progress at nuclear
disarmament talks in Beijing this week.


But those negotiations ended abruptly Thursday when North Korea's
envoy flew home because the cash had still not been transferred
to a North Korean account at the Bank of China in Beijing.


"Up to now we are not involved," the bank's general manager Wang
Zhaowen said at the same news conference.


"Bank of China is a listed bank. We always abide by the law. We
will not be involved in illegal business and money laundering.


"Our bank will try our best to understand our customer's
situation."


Earlier Thursday, the Macau government said it had no information
about any release of the money.


There have been suggestions the transfer of the frozen funds from
the Macao- based Banco Delta Asia was being held up by legal and
technical problems.


Liu Jianchao, a spokesman for China's foreign ministry, said
Thursday the Bank of China had "reasonable concerns" about the
legality of the transaction.


The latest round of the often tortuous talks began Monday amid
high hopes major progress would be made in trying to end North
Korea's nuclear weapons programme, following a landmark accord
signed last month.


Under the agreement, North Korea agreed to shut down its main
nuclear reactor at Yongbyon by mid-April and allow UN inspectors
back into the country.


In return, the impoverished regime would initially receive 50,000
tonnes of heavy fuel for energy use, rising up to one million
tonnes if the disarmament accord is implemented in full.

