

The Italian and US foreign ministers were to speak by telephone
Thursday after Washington criticised concessions made to the
Taliban in exchange for the freedom of an Italian journalist in
Afghanistan.


Foreign Minister Massimo d'Alema and his US counterpart
Condoleezza Rice will hold "an exchange of views to obtain
clarification after the criticism from an anonymous source" at
the US State Department, a foreign ministry official told AFP.


War correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo of the daily La
Repubblica was released Monday after two weeks in the hands of
the Taliban in exchange for the freedom of five militants of the
Islamic movement.


Rome was "surprised" by the criticism, the foreign ministry
official said, recalling a "very positive climate" during a
dinner meeting between D'Alema and Rice in Washington on Monday.


A US official speaking on condition of anonymity Wednesday said
the swap increased the risk of similar kidnappings of NATO and
Afghan troops.


"Although we are pleased with the release of the Italian
journalist, Mr. Mastrogiacomo, we do have some concerns about the
circumstances surrounding his release," the official said.


"It is US policy to use every appropriate resource to gain the
safe return of hostages, but to make no concessions to
individuals or groups holding those hostages," she said, adding
that the United States "did not and do not approve of concessions
to terrorists."


"In this case, these concessions caught the US by surprise," she
added, saying Washington had "communicated those concerns" to
Rome through diplomatic channels.


The Italian foreign ministry late Wednesday denied receiving any
such communication.


Britain and The Netherlands, which like Italy and the United
States have troops in NATO's International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan, have also criticised the prisoner
release deal.


A spokeswoman for Britain's Foreign Office told AFP in London:
"This sends the wrong signal to prospective hostage-takers."


Dutch Foreign Minister Maxime Verhagen, for his part, said: "When
we create a situation where you can buy the freedom of Taliban
fighters when you catch a journalist, then in the short term
there will be no journalists anymore."


Speaking during a visit to Kabul on Wednesday, he said: "The
Dutch government will not give in to such a situation because
otherwise you will support the taking of hostages and we don't
want it."

