

Poland's largest academic institution, Warsaw University, on
Thursday called for the suspension of new rules which aim to
expose anyone in public life who had ties to the hated communist-
era secret police.


"The Senate of Warsaw University considers that all activities
related to the implementation of the de-communisation law should
be suspended and requests that Poland's ombudsman takes the
appropriate steps," the university said in a statement sent to
AFP.


It said that it was awaiting a ruling by Poland's supreme court
on whether the new vetting law, which came into force last week,
breaches the country's constitution.


It urged Polish President Lech Kaczynski to meanwhile put the
legislation on ice, and also called on lawmakers to act.


"An amendment should lead at least to the suspension of the law's
implementation until its compatibility with the Polish
constitution has been examined," the university said.


Academics are among the 700,000 people across a swathe of
professions who are now required to come clean about their
pre-1989 record on pain of losing their jobs.


Several leading Polish academics have said they will refuse to
comply, alleging the law is a "humiliating" breach of freedom of
conscience.


The rules, which apply to anyone born before 1972, also cover
elected officials, top civil servants, judges, managers of state-
owned firms, school principals, diplomats and lawyers.


Journalists are likewise covered, but a group from the newspaper
Gazeta Wyborcza, which was created by anti-communist dissidents,
has announced a boycott.


They claim the law smacks of the methods of the Soviet-inspired
regime set up after World War II.


All affected individuals in theory face the sack if they refuse
to complete declarations saying whether or not they collaborated
with the loathed Sluzba Bezpieczenstwa (SB) secret police.


The declarations are meant to be submitted to the National
Remembrance Institute (IPN), which is the trustee of Poland's
communist-era archives and is charged with checking the
declarations against its holdings.


While admitting secret police ties does not bring automatic
punishment, lying means a 10-year professional ban.


The legislation was the brainchild of Lech Kaczynski and his
identical twin, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, who revived
efforts to settle accounts with former communist collaborators
after their conservative Law and Justice party came to power in
2005.

