

Somali troops and their Ethiopian allies exchanged heavy mortar
and machinegun fire with insurgents here Thursday as terrified
residents streamed out of the Somali capital fearing a wider war.


A day after at least 14 people were killed, including soldiers
who were dragged and burned in the streets, Prime Minister Ali
Mohamed Gedi ordered civilians to leave areas in southern
Mogadishu "for security reasons".


As residents streamed from the south of the battered seaside
city, witnesses reported heavy exchanges of mortar and machinegun
fire in previously calm areas of northern Mogadishu.


Ethiopian tanks were seen rumbling into position as skirmishes
raged in other parts of the city.


"The fighting in Mogadishu will not stop until we defeat them
(the insurgents)," Deputy Defence Minister Salad Ali Jelle told a
news conference.


"We will pursue our aim of stabilizing Mogadishu. This plan will
not be hampered by a few individuals."


The latest fighting was sparked by a government crackdown on the
insurgents, many of whom are believed to be Islamists who have
returned to the capital after being driven out with the help of
Ethiopian forces late last year.


Angry crowds burned the bodies of at least two of the soldiers
killed Wednesday and dragged another through the streets, in
grisly scenes evoking the disastrous intervention of US troops
here more than a decade ago.


Fleeing residents said the fighting was set to escalate.


"All the fighting sides are making warlike statements and are
preparing for war," said Amina Sabriye, a mother of six, as she
fled from Shirkole neighbourhood.


"I have never seen a mass exodus on this scale in recent years,"
said 86-year- old Mohamed Mukhtar Sadiq.


Jelle said Al-Qaeda had named Islamist commander Aden Hashi Ayro
as its leader in Mogadishu, raising the spectre of a broader
insurgency involving foreign Islamic extremists linked to Osama
bin Laden's terror network.


"After Somali terrorists made consultations with Al-Qaeda, Ayro
was named as chief of Al-Qaeda in Mogadishu," Jelle told a press
conference here.


Western intelligence agencies believe there are numerous Al-Qaeda
operatives hiding within the ranks of the Somali Islamists.


Jelle said Ayro led the insurgents in the recent fighting in
Mogadishu, which escalated dramatically since January when
Ethiopian-Somali troops drove out the Islamist movement from much
of southern and central Somalia.


Early this month an Islamist website released an audio-taped
message attributed to Ayro, who called on Somalis to attack and
kill Ethiopian troops deployed in Somalia.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from powerful clans.


Some 1,500 Ugandan troops are now in Somalia as part of a
proposed 8,000-strong African Union force aiming to help
government troops regain control and Ethiopian forces to leave.


The Hawiye clan, seen as the instigators of the insurgency, on
Thursday rejected the prime minister's order to leave Mogadishu
and accused the government of planning an assault against them.


"We see this war as an act of agression," said Ahmed Dirie,
spokesman for the clan, from where the Islamists drew most of
their fighters.


Factional bloodletting has wracked Somalia since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre, creating a platform for a civil
war that has defied more than 14 peace-making attempts.

