

"I hope I'm liked", Britain's finance minister and likely next
prime minister Gordon Brown said Thursday, as he defended his
past record and future prospects after his probable last budget.


Brown went into Wednesday's budget announcement with claims by
Lord Andrew Turnbull, Britain's former top civil servant, that he
had exhibited "Stalinist ruthlessness" with colleagues ringing in
his ears.


Last September then home secretary Charles Clarke accused Brown
in a newspaper interview of being a "deluded control freak" and
unable to work with others.


And one of Prime Minister Tony Blair's inner circle is alleged to
have called Brown "psychologically flawed".


In an interview with BBC radio Thursday, Brown acknowledged that
Turnbull's unprecedented comments were "not something you want to
hear" but added that "these sorts of things happen... you've just
got to get on with it".


During the traditional round of post-budget interviews, Brown
also recognised that he was "different" from Blair, whose
charisma and media-savvy style was a big factor in Labour's
landslide election win in 1997.


"I am a different person, I had to make different decisions," he
said.


"I hope I am liked... but it is for other people to judge."


And he defended himself against suggestions that his style might
prove too uncompromising for life in 10 Downing Street.


"I try to do the best I can as a chancellor (of the exchequer),"
he said.


"Obviously if one's in a different job, both the expectations and
the demands of that are different but I'm ready to rise to any
challenge.


"What I would like to do is to serve the country in the best way
that I can."


He also said he would be "inclusive" and "collegiate" and use
"all the talents of the country" if he reached Britain's highest
office.


"One of the things I've realised... is that you cannot solve
these problems without engaging and involving and having onside
the people of the country," he said.


A series of recent opinion polls has shown Brown lagging behind
the leader of the main opposition Conservatives, David Cameron.

