

Japan has no plans to stop stockpiling Tamiflu for a possible
bird flu pandemic despite questions over the blockbuster drug's
psychological side effects, a health official said Thursday.


"The Tamiflu that is stocked is not used for the popular form of
influenza but for bird flu, against which we have no other
weapon," said health ministry official Takahiro Inoue.


Japan on Wednesday instructed the Japanese subsidiary of Swiss
drugmaker Roche, which makes Tamiflu, to warn against its
prescription for teenagers, while South Korea said Thursday it
would advise doctors of the potential risks.


Tamiflu has come under investigation in Japan after dozens of
people who took the drug killed themselves.


In one recent case a 14-year-old boy leapt to his death last
month from the 11th floor of an apartment block in northern
Japan.


An investigation last year by the US Food and Drug Administration
into the deaths in Japan concluded there was no link with
Tamiflu, and Roche has repeatedly denied any connection between
the drug and the incidents.


"It's hard to say what the link between Tamiflu and the deaths
is," said Professor Katsuhisa Nakajima at Nagoya City University
Medical School.


"But it seems that once it comes into contact with the nervous
system it has adverse effects," he added.


Japan buys more than 60 percent of the world's Tamiflu, which as
well as often being a common treatment for seasonal flu is
considered a frontline drug against a potential pandemic of bird
flu or other forms of influenza.


"The Japanese buy massive amounts of it. As soon as they have a
fever they reach out for a fever reducing drug," said Nakajima,
noting that the risk of a teenager dying from influenza was very
small.


"Westerners generally prefer to rest when they get sick and take
as little medicine as possible. But in Japan it's the opposite.
Japanese think that they will be a nuisance to others if they
take a rest," Nakajima said.


Japan's health ministry announced just earlier this month that it
would increase its stocks to cover a total of 28 million patients
for five days in the event of a human bird flu epidemic.


The virulent H5N1 bird flu virus has killed at least 169 people
across the world since late 2003 through contact with infected
birds, according to the World Health Organisation.

