

Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq admits that his final one-day
international was one of the most difficult in which he has
played.


Inzamam announced last Sunday that he was retiring from limited
overs internationals and stepping down from the post of Pakistan
captain, following his side's shock early exit from the World
Cup.


"This has been a very difficult decision," a sombre Inzamam told
reporters, after Pakistan cruised to a 93-run victory under the
Duckworth-Lewis method in their rain-marred final match against
Zimbabwe on Wednesday at Sabina Park.


"I have played for Pakistan for the last 16 or 17 years, and it
has been a great honour for me. I have enjoyed playing for
Pakistan, and it has meant a great deal to me, but I had to make
this decision in the interest of Pakistan cricket."


Inzamam, who will still be available for Test matches, completed
a glittering ODI career in which he made 378 appearances for his
side with 11,739 runs at an average of 39.52.


He and the Pakistan team endured three difficult days heading
into the match, following the death of their coach Bob Woolmer.


Police are treating the death as suspicious.


"It was a difficult decision to play this match, but we had
decided to dedicate this game to Bob," added Inzamam.


"When we got up this morning, we decided that though we were down
in spirits, we would all give 100 per cent effort for Bob.


"Indeed, the last three or four days were very difficult for all
of us, and we were under a lot of stress. We are delighted now
that we came out, and we got a win to dedicate to him."


Many of the Pakistan team have spoken of Woolmer as a father
figure, and Inzamam himself was reportedly very close to the
coach.


"It was very emotional for me to be out there," said the 37-year-
old who was given a standing ovation by the sparse crowd as well
as the Zimbabwe team while his own team descended from the
pavilion to form a guard of honour when he was dismissed for 37.


"The reception I got from the fans, and of course, the way the
boys treated me when I was walking off, and Bob not being here
made it extra emotional."


Inzamam felt that had the pitches in the previous two matches,
which his team lost to West Indies and Ireland, been anywhere
close to the hard, easy-paced surface upon which Wednesday's
match was played things may have been different for his side, he
was not prepared to make excuses.


"It could probably have been different if we had pitches like
this in our previous matches, but that is in the past," he said.


"It doesn't make much sense dwelling on things that have already
gone," he concluded.


Inzamam and his teammates will spend two days in the Jamaica
north-coast resort town of Montego Bay before beginning the long,
difficult journey home on Saturday.


Pakistanis have reacted angrily to the team's early exit from the
World Cup, and the side can expect a lukewarm response when they
arrive home.

