

EU transport ministers were seeking on Thursday British backing
for plans to open up the transatlantic aviation market to
increased competition with special treatment for London's
Heathrow airport.


After four years of discussions between Washington and Brussels,
the ministers are to vote on a tentative "open skies" deal that
EU and US negotiators struck at the beginning of the month.


However, at the start of the meeting it was still uncertain
whether Britain was prepared to give its go-ahead to the deal,
which needs backing from all 27 EU members.


"I'm cautiously optimistic that we can succeed today," said
German Transport Minister Wolfgang Tiefensee, who was to chair
the meeting under Germany's presidency of the European Union.


The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on the EU's
behalf, says consumers will see up to 12 billion euros (16
billion dollars) in economic benefits as increased competition
brings downs ticket prices.


Britain has deep reservations about the deal because it would
lift restrictions on the number of airlines which can operate
profitable transatlantic flights from Heathrow airport outside
London, the busiest in Europe.


Currently, only British Airways, Virgin Atlantic of Britain and
US carriers United Airlines and American Airlines are allowed to
fly from Heathrow to the United States.


British Transport Secretary Douglas Alexander promised to listen
to his counterparts, but said that he would stand by Britain's
interests.


"I will listen carefully to the arguments that are put around the
table and I will set out very clearly what Britain regards as the
right deal for the United Kingdom, for Europe, for industry and
for passengers," he said as he arrived for the meeting.


However, one EU source said a compromise was in the works that
could pave the way for an agreement by giving extra time for the
restrictions at Heathrow to be lifted.


"The idea of a delay for Heathrow should be accepted and the 27
members should be able to find an agreement," the source said.


If the so-called "open skies" agreement on the table gets the EU
ministers' backing, it is expected to go into effect by October
28.


The fate of Heathrow is key as transatlantic flights to and from
Britain currently make up about 38 percent of the total EU-US air
traffic, with a large part of that going through the airport.


An open-skies deal is supposed to replace the patchwork of
existing bilateral air transport agreements between EU members
and the United States, eight of which the European Court of
Justice has ruled are illegal.


The European Commission has not enforced the court decision
because it has a mandate to negotiate an EU-US deal.


The EU estimates that an agreement would generate more than 26
million extra passengers over the next five years and create
80,000 new jobs in the EU and United States combined.


Under the draft agreement, any EU carrier would be able to fly
from anywhere in the bloc to any point in the United States and
vice versa.


That is expected to dramatically increase competition because EU
carriers are currently only allowed to fly to the United States
from their home country.


However, while US carriers would be able to fly intra-EU routes,
their European rivals would not be able to fly between two cities
within the United States.


The agreement would also lift restrictions on EU carriers buying
big stakes in US airlines, although their voting rights in a US
carrier would remain capped at 25-percent, much to the chagrin of
Britain.

