

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon arrived in Baghdad on Thursday,
flying into Iraq on a previously unannounced visit for talks with
Prime Minister Nuri al- Maliki, local UN spokesman Said Erekat
said.


Ban's arrival was the surprise first leg of an 11-day Middle East
tour previously announced at the United Nations headquarters in
New York.


"He will be meeting Prime Minister Maliki and other government
officials," Erekat said, confirming the UN chief's arrival.


"He will be meeting with parliament members and he will be
meeting different political groups' leaderships and the
diplomatic corps. He will be discussing recent events in Iraq,
the role the United Nations has," he added.


Ban is the first UN secretary general to visit the war-torn
country since his predecessor, Kofi Annan, visited Baghdad in
November 2005, the official said.


A brutal terrorist attack on the UN headquarters in Baghdad on
August 19, 2003 killed 22 people, including UN envoy Sergio
Vieira de Mello.


Aides have said one of Ban's priorities during his Middle East
tour would be the UN role in the Iraq Compact for economic
development.


Last Friday, the United Nations hosted an international
conference on the International Compact with Iraq (ICI), which is
a joint initiative with the world body established last July with
the support of the World Bank.


Iraqi Vice President Adel Abdel Mahdi laid out a five-year
economic revival plan before nearly 90 countries that are to
review Iraq's progress in carrying out political, security and
economic reforms in exchange for international aid and debt
relief.


Ban's arrival comes with US and Iraqi troops waging a massive
security operation that will see 25,000 extra troops deployed in
a bid to control Baghdad and quell deadly sectarian warfare
between Sunnis and Shiites.


During his tour, he is also expected to visit Egypt, Israel,
Jordan, Lebanon, the Palestinian territories and Saudi Arabia,
where he will attend the Arab League summit in Riyadh.

