

A deflated French "Spiderman" Alain Robert said Thursday he will
keep his feet firmly on the ground and off Malaysia's tallest
buildings after being arrested for trying to scale them.


Robert on Tuesday failed in his audacious assault on the iconic
Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur after authorities nabbed him
while he was two-thirds of the way up one of the 88-storey
buildings.


It was his second attempt in a decade to climb one of towers --
once the world's tallest buildings -- with just his bare hands.


"On Tuesday, I climbed it exactly on the same day 10 years ago,"
Robert told AFP.


"I have no reason to try again. I did it twice and reached 60
stories each time. Unless one day I can get approval and I can
get to the top, there's no point," he added.


Robert was freed on bail Wednesday by police, but his passport is
being held while government lawyers decide whether to charge him
for trespassing.


If found guilty, the 44-year-old rock climber could be fined
2,000 ringgit (576 dollars) or jailed for a year, or both. He was
freed without charge after his first try in 1997.


Robert said his lawyers were working on a deal to keep him from
prosecution. "If I sign something and promise not to do it again,
I won't be charged ... which is a good deal. At the end of the
day, it is better to have my freedom," he said.


The Frenchman also said he was disappointed at comments by fellow
countryman, Christian Poncelet, the president of the French
Senate, who had witnessed his attempt while on a visit to
Malaysia.


Poncelet had criticised Robert's feat as risky and suggested he
climb elsewhere instead of flouting Malaysia's laws.


"I was a bit surprised. I thought his reaction was very uncool
and unfair," Robert said.


Down but not out, the French daredevil said he planned to climb
more buildings in Europe, including towers in Frankfurt, Paris
and Brussels, and would release a DVD of his feats.


"Climbing buildings is not illegal in some countries," he said.


Robert has been nicknamed "Spiderman" for his high-profile
escapades, which include climbing the Eiffel Tower in Paris and
the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco.

