

Enzo Bearzot, who was Italy's coach in their triumphant 1982
World Cup campaign, has slammed Francesco Totti for snubbing the
national team.


Totti has not played for Italy since last year's World Cup final
victory over France and is only willing to return in September.


The 30-year-old Roma captain fears further problems with the
ankle he broke three months before the World Cup and nearly ruled
him out of the tournament, and also wants to concentrate on his
club commitments.


Totti's decision was accepted by the Italian football federation
(FIGC), but Bearzot believes Totti is being disrespectful to his
country.


"It seems very strange to me, completely illogical," Bearzot was
quoted as saying in Thursday's Gazzetta dello Sport.


"If he can play for Roma, he can play for the national team.


"It's a shame because he should be happy and proud to play for
Italy.


"He is the best player in the country and a symbol of our
football.


"I could understand if he had said he'd had enough and wanted to
retire from international football altogether.


"But there's still this uncertainty and it sets a bad precedent.
Others might do the same in the future."


Current Italy coach Roberto Donadoni clearly seems unhappy with
Totti's sabatical, and on Tuesday insisted there was no guarantee
the Roma striker would be considered for selection in September.


"When Totti makes himself available again and recovers from his
physical problems, it will be up to me to decide whether he's in
the squad," Donadoni said as he prepared the world champions for
their crunch Euro 2008 qualifier against Scotland next week.


"I'm getting tired of all these questions about Totti. At the
moment I have other things on my mind.


Last week Totti, a born and bred Roman who has spent his entire
career with his hometown club, said he would choose Roma over
Italy every time.


"Between Roma and my country I choose Roma, of that there is no
doubt," he told television channel TG1.


"The most important thing for me is wearing the Roma shirt."


Roma are through to the quarter-finals of the Champions League,
where they will meet English Premiership leaders Manchester
United. They currently lie second in Serie A and are through to
the Italian Cup final.


Italy are third in their Euro 2008 qualifying group on seven
points, two behind Scotland and France, after four matches.

