

Defending champion Kimmie Meissner has warned that a tough battle
is shaping up among the teenage jumpers for the women's title at
the world figure skating championships.


"I know they're both very good and they're going to be tough
competition," the 17-year-old American said Thursday about her
Japanese and South Korean rivals, Mao Asada and Kim Yu-Na, on the
eve of the women's short programme.


"But I think I'll bring some competition. They are good and I
think we've already started," said the high school student from
Bel Air, Maryland.


Meissner, who arrived here on Monday, fell twice on triple Lutz
attempts during practice Thursday. But she insisted: "I do them
perfect every day."


Kim and Asada, both now 16, could not compete in last year's
Olympics and world championships because they were too young.
Meissner finished sixth in Turin.


But both former world junior champions have already won the Grand
Prix final, a premier senior event with a lower age limit.


Asada upset then world number one Irina Slutskaya of Russia to
win the event last season, but was beaten into second spot by Kim
this season.


Meissner won the 2006 world title in the absence of the Turin
Olympic gold and bronze medallists, Japan's Shizuka Arakawa and
Slutskaya.


Arakawa has turned professional and Slutskaya and Olympic silver
medallist Sasha Cohen of the United States are taking a season
off.


A spirited but erratic skater, Meissner has sprung back from a
winless Grand Prix run this season to win the US national title
and the Four Continents crown, both for the first time.


In training, Asada has been seen consistently landing the triple
Axel, a difficult 3.5-revolution practiced by a limited number of
female skaters.


Kim, who has been treated for disc herniation since December,
said she had hurt her tailbone during training in Canada before
coming here. "There is still some pain but I am not worried," she
said.


Asada's teammate, Miki Ando, 19, successfully landed a quadruple
on Wednesday on her 15th attempt at the four-revolution jump in
training this      week.


She is the first and only woman to have landed one in competition
but has not done so since late 2003, and fell while attempting it
when she finished 15th at the Turin Olympics last year.

