

An exiled bank chief at the centre of Algeria's largest-ever
corruption scandal was sentenced in absentia to life in prison
Thursday.


Rafik Khalifa has been in London since 2003, when hundreds of
millions of dollars were discovered missing from the Khalifa
Bank. Algeria has been seeking his extradition.


The court in Blida in southern Algeria handed down the sentence
for fraud, embezzlement, theft and forgery, among other charges.


In addition, the exiled former governor of the central bank,
Abdelawahab Keramane, and five others were also sentenced in
abstentia to 20 years in prison.


Khalifa's wife received a 10-year sentence, as did former
industry minister Abdennour Keramane and his daughter Yasmine,
the former representative of Khalifa Airways in Milan, Italy.


The court ordered the seizure of the assets of all those
convicted.


Those judged in absentia cannot appeal their sentence. But if
they are arrested, extradited or decide to turn themselves in,
they can be retried.


An extradition treaty signed by Algeria and Britain last year
took effect in February.


But lawyers say extradition procedures in Britain tend to be
lengthy and complicated and are likely to delay Khalifa being
handed over to Algerian authorities.


Thursday's decision follows 45 convictions handed down by the
court the day before in cases related to the same corruption
scandal. Forty-nine others were acquitted.


The 40-year-old Khalifa assembled a business empire employing
more than 20,000 over a breakneck five-year period up to 2003.


Khalifa Bank, Algeria's first privately owned bank, was the hub
of his empire with some 7,000 employees. The group also comprised
an airline, Khalifa Airways, and a television station in former
colonial ruler France.


The defence team blamed lax supervision by the authorities and in
particular the Bank of Algeria, for the scandal.


Many defendants in the scandal have defended themselves by saying
that they were only following orders issued by Khalifa. They
portrayed the playboy tycoon as an autocratic boss with little
patience for subordinates questioning directives.


Khalifa was known to love the international jet set, traveling in
a private jet named Challenger and spending time at his villa in
the French seaside resort of Cannes.


Khalifa was also questioned by British authorities in February on
suspicions of money laundering. That case was delayed until May
22 following a second questioning by Scotland Yard.


Investigations into other parts of Khalifa's business empire,
which included an airline and two television channels, are
expected to come to trial at a later date.

