

The race to become Tokyo's next governor kicked off Thursday with
more than a dozen candidates competing to prevent controversial
incumbent Shintaro Ishihara from winning a third term.


A street musician, a taxi driver, a feng shui expert and even a
fortune teller are among the contenders challenging the 74-year-
old novelist-turned-politician, who is known for his nationalist
views.


Renowned architect Kisho Kurokawa, 72, as well as the former
governor of northern Miyagi Prefecture, Shiro Asano, 59, are also
in the running.


Ishihara, whose views on Japan's militarist past have frequently
riled Asian neighbours, wants another four years in office but
has been under fire in recent months for excessive spending on
overseas business trips.


"I'm facing an uphill race, which I did not expect," Ishihara
said at a campaign rally in Tokyo ahead of the April election.


Ishihara is known for his support for Taiwan and staunch
criticism of China, and is accused by his opponents of damaging
inter-racial relations and devoting too much time to celebrity
appearances.


"What we've lost during the eight years under the government of
Ishihara -- whose remarks and actions as well as his political
stance are nothing but arrogant -- was extremely significant,"
said Asano, who is running independently but with support from
Japan's largest opposition Democratic Party.


Ishihara, who was once a lawmaker in the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party, turned down the party's endorsement in a bid to
attract swing voters.


One of the main election battlegrounds is his pet project to bid
for the 2016 Olympic Games.


Architect Kurokawa has said he would axe the governor's bid for
the Olympic Games, expressing concerns over Tokyo's development
and urban planning if the Japanese capital won hosting rights.


Kurokawa's futuristic National Art Centre-Tokyo opened in
January. He also designed the exhibition wing of Amsterdam's Van
Gogh Museum and the Melbourne Central commercial hub.


The youngest candidate was 33-year-old Koichiro Mariko, who
registered himself with the Tokyo election committee as a
"dilettante".


In total 13 rival candidates emerged against Ishihara, up from
four in the previous race.

