

Relatives shed bitter tears Thursday as they gathered in freezing
temperatures to bury dozens of the 108 miners killed in modern
Russia's worst mining accident.


About 58 funerals took place in the Siberian city of Novokuznetsk
and nearby Osinniki, communities struggling to come to terms with
the huge losses in a methane gas explosion on Monday deep
underground in the Ulyanovskaya mine.


Relatives and friends arrived in more than 30 buses and a convoy
of cars at the wind-swept Novokuznetsk cemetery, many of them
blaming lax regulations at profit-hungry companies for the deaths
of the men, who included the mine's chief engineer and a visiting
British expert.


"We have to make money, we are forced to bend the rules," said
one man, Igor, who was burying his brother and asked not to be
further identified.


Another miner from the Ulyanovskaya site, Sergei, said: "I am
very dissatisfied with the state of security there. The
management is always pushing for high output and that's why there
are violations. Low output means low profits and low salaries."


Many of the victims were torn to pieces in the gas blast, but
Igor at least had a body to bury. "He was burned in the
explosion, but we could still recognize him," Igor said.


A total of 203 people were underground at the time of the
accident, the worst mining disaster in Russia since the collapse
of the Soviet Union. Of these, 93 were rescued.


A search is continuing for the last two missing miners, but hopes
are near zero of finding them alive.


The tragedy came on the heels of an air crash that killed six in
the central Russian city of Samara over the weekend and just
before a horrific fire at an old people's home in the southern
Krasnodar region that killed 63.


President Vladimir Putin has ordered an investigation into all
three incidents and on Wednesday the country observed a day of
mourning.


A large number of the management team at the Ulyanovskaya mine
were killed while making an inspection. Officials say that the
director would also have almost certainly been below ground at
the time had he not been on holiday.


Although officials quickly insisted that the mine was equipped
with the latest safety technology, critics say that regulations
are routinely flouted both by managers and ordinary miners in
order to increase output and earn bonuses.


"The state has abandoned all responsibility for the extremely
difficult and dangerous conditions that miners work in," the
Independent Miners' Union wrote in an open letter to Putin
distributed to journalists in Moscow on Wednesday.


"Security regulations are too loose in most Russian mines," the
union's chairman, Alexander Sergeyev, said.


Nearly all coalmines in Russia have been privatised since the
collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and a total of 456 miners
have died in accidents since December 1992, said the union, which
represents 25,000 members.

