

Communist Vietnam, under pressure over its human rights record,
stressed through its state-controlled media Thursday that it
would take action against dissidents who challenge the one-party
state.


The deputy security minister said Vietnam would defend its
political system against pro-democracy activists, several of whom
have recently been detained, according to a lengthy English-
language online newspaper report.


"The Vietnamese constitution states that Vietnam has a one-party
political system," Deputy Public Security Minister Senior
Lieutenant General Nguyen Van Huong was quoted as saying in the
Thanh Nien daily.


"It's illegal if some people want to establish another party, not
to mention secretly inciting other people to join their
organisation and aim to overthrow the existing government," he
was quoted as telling a US diplomat this month.


According to the report on the meeting, Huong said Vietnam was
right to prosecute activists such as Catholic priest Nguyen Van
Ly and members of the pro-democracy "Bloc 8406," named after its
April 8 launch last year.


"Vietnam will continue to take action against people who incite
others to act against the Vietnamese state," he said, adding that
these included Hanoi lawyers Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan,
detained early last month.


The three have been accused of breaching article 88 of the
criminal code, which bans "defaming" the government and carries a
maximum 20-year jail term.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice last week raised human
rights questions with Vietnam's visiting Foreign Minister Pham
Gia Khiem following protests from US Congress members and Swedish
parliamentarians, among others.


Foreign ministry spokesman Le Dung said Thursday both sides had
different views on human rights due to their different political
systems and levels of economic and cultural development, but he
said the dialogue would continue.


New York-based Human Rights Watch two weeks ago accused Vietnam
of launching "one of the worst crackdowns on peaceful dissidents
in 20 years."


Vietnam had been "emboldened" to act against its opponents after
achieving the long-sought goal of joining the World Trade
Organization in January and hosting an Asia-Pacific summit last
November, the US group said.


The online article of Thanh Nien -- which like all Vietnamese
media operates under state control -- represented an unusually
detailed and open rebuttal from the Vietnamese government to its
critics.


The article said Huong stressed the desire for good US ties but
also said "the US side has interfered too deeply with Vietnam's
internal affairs."


The deputy minister had asked the US diplomat to elaborate on
"why the US was interested in some criminals imprisoned in
Vietnam."


Huong said that Father Ly -- who is expected to face trial soon
in the central city of Hue -- had contacted US-based Vietnamese
dissidents to found the Bloc 8406 and other anti-government
groups.


"Ly always claims he is a priest, which makes it easy for people
to mistakenly think we are suppressing religions," he said,
charging instead that "he is a conspirator planning violent
activities to cause public disorder."


Sending a conciliatory signal, Huong also said prominent
dissident journalist Nguyen Vu Binh, jailed since 2003, may be
considered for amnesty, reiterating a comment made previously by
the foreign minister.


Former enemies the United States and Vietnam have done much to
restore ties since their war ended with the fall of Saigon in
1975.


"A blossoming era of bilateral relations will surely come," Huong
reportedly said, "and these 'people of interest to the US' cannot
undermine it and are not worthy of consideration by the leaders
of the two countries."

