

Ocean-going vessels now belch out more of the major air pollutant
sulfur dioxide than all of the world's cars, trucks and buses
combined, according to a study released Thursday.


The group behind the report, the International Council on Clean
Transportation (ICCT), also said the shipping industry emits more
of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide than many industrialized
nations.


The ICCT, comprising transport and air quality experts from
around the world, called on the industry voluntarily to clean up
its act and also submit to tough standards as part of efforts to
combat global warming.


"International ships are one of the world's largest, virtually
uncontrolled source of air pollution," said Alan Lloyd, the
ICCT's president and former secretary of California's
Environmental Protection Agency.


"Air pollution from diesel trucks and buses in Europe, Japan, and
the US has declined steadily for over a decade. At the same time,
air pollution from international ships is rising virtually
unchecked," he said.


The study said the sulfur dioxide (SO2) content of marine diesel
fuel is an average of 27,000 parts per million (ppm), compared to
just 10-15 ppm for road fuels in Europe, Japan and the United
States.


SO2 is blamed for causing respiratory illnesses and acid rain,
and for forming atmospheric particles that choke off air
visibility.


The ICCT cited recent estimates as saying at least 17 percent of
emissions of nitrogen oxide come from ships, which can contribute
more than 25 percent of the pollutant in some port cities and
coastal nations.


The group said the International Maritime Organization (IMO) had
been "slow to take advantage of the best available technologies
and fuels," with its only action on ship emissions adopted in
1997 and implemented two years ago.


However, the IMO is debating whether to adopt a new round of
emission standards for international ships leading up to meetings
in April and June, the ICCT noted.


It called on the IMO to mandate a 90-percent reduction in marine
diesel's sulfur content, use up-to-date technologies to govern
emission standards, and set new standards to address the impact
of climate change.


Axel Friedrich, co-author of the report and a senior official in
Germany's Federal Environment Agency, said all that was required
was an industry will to make changes.


"We've found that the public health and environmental
consequences are clear and compelling and the technology is
available now to dramatically lower air pollution from
international shipping," he said.


"It's time for the IMO to make overdue changes that will save
lives, help millions of people breathe easier, and reduce global
warming."

