

Ten Taliban fighters were killed in clashes with Afghan and NATO
forces in southern Afghanistan Thursday, police said, as troops
arrested eight suspected militants in several swoops.


The troops also "captured Taliban ground" in an operation
underway in the southern province of Helmand, the police chief
for the province's Gereshk district told AFP.


"There are at least 10 Taliban bodies left at the site of the
battle," police chief Habibullah Khan told AFP. "We have captured
the Taliban ground and the operation is still ongoing."


Helmand has been the scene of fierce battles between Taliban
fighters and government and NATO forces in the past months.
Military officials admit parts of it are under rebel control.


An Italian journalist and two Afghans were abducted in the
province on March 4. The correspondent was released after 15 days
in captivity in exchange for Taliban prisoners, but his driver
was beheaded; the translator is believed to still be with the
Taliban.


US-led coalition and Afghan troops meanwhile captured Thursday
eight suspected militants and men said to help fighters into
Afghanistan from Pakistan, where there are militant training
camps.


Five were captured in the eastern province of Kunar in a raid on
"extremist facilitators suspected of helping militant fighters"
enter from Pakistan's tribally administered Bajaur Agency, the
coalition said in statement.


Two more, said to be commanders, were arrested in Helmand's
Gereshk in a strike on a compound where intelligence said there
were militants involved in "anti- government activity."


In the eastern province of Khost troops arrested one person after
uncovering a small weapons cache and other contraband items,
another statement said.


The Taliban were forced from power in late 2001 in a US-led
offensive.


There are around 50,000 foreign troops, with the coalition and
the separate NATO force, supporting efforts by the undermanned
and underequipped Afghan army and police to take on the militants
and stabilise the country.

