

Brian Joubert was crowned men's singles champion at the world
figure skating championships on Thursday, bringing the title to
France for the first time in 42 years.


Japanese national champion Daisuke Takahashi wept with joy as he
top-scored in the free skating to finish second, with two-time
defending title-holder Stephane Lambiel of Switzerland taking
bronze.


Joubert, the 22-year-old European champion who took world silver
in 2004 and 2006, finally finished on top after an error-free
performance for 157.21 points in the free skating, giving him a
total of 240.85 points.


It was the first victory in the category for France since Alain
Calmat, who was watching Joubert's performance, won the gold
medal in 1965.


"It was very difficult, I'm very tired. I didn't attempt the
second quad, because I wanted to give the audience a clean
programme. I worked for the gold. It's been a great season," said
Joubert.


"I gave it everything I could tonight. Today was a difficult day.
Waiting for the scores is torture. Alain Calmat brings me luck.
He was here when I won the first European title for France since
Alain Calmat and now the first worlds since him.


"I'm relieved and very excited. I was a little nervous, because
Stephane Lambiel did a good programme," added Joubert.


Takahashi, although touching the ice at his first quadruple
attempt, collected 163.44 points to move up from Wednesday's
third with a total of 237.95 points.


"I'm very happy to have won the first world silver medal for
Japan. I heard the roaring cheers from the audience, when I got
really tired, so I just tried to respond and complete the
programme," said Takahashi.


"I was not as nervous as I was yesterday. I focused on showing
what I can do," added Takahashi, who was moved to tears after his
performance.


Lambiel also touched the ice on a quadruple, but ended with
excellent high-speed combination spins to earn 160.65 points for
a total of 233.35 points.


"It was great. It was my new programme and this is the real
Stephane Lambiel today," said the 21-year-old Swiss. "It could
have been better. I had mistakes for my second quad, but it was a
good attempt."


"What was important for me today is to land a triple axel and a
quad toe (loop) and it was done and after that I could really
skate with freedom and enjoy my skating, and that was my goal I
had when I came here," he added.


Turin Olympic bronze medallist Jeffrey Buttle, second after the
short programme, fell twice and touched the ice once in a
disastrous performance which left him sixth with 214.96 points.


Two-time world bronze medallist Evan Lysacek of the United States
was fifth with 222.18 points, while local hope Nobunari Oda was
seventh with 209.94.

