

Britain's Royal Navy was investigating Thursday how an air-
purification system malfunctioned and killed two sailors on one
of its nuclear submarines during war games in the Arctic with the
US Navy.


The accident, which also injured one crewman, occurred while the
HMS Tireless, a hunter-killer submarine which does not carry
nuclear missiles, was under the ice cap in the Arctic Ocean
during a joint exercise Wednesday.


In Washington, US Navy spokeswoman Lieutenant Li Cohen told AFP
that a self- contained oxygen-generation candle, part of the air
purification system, exploded, causing the accident.


Britain's defence ministry did not immediately comment on the US
account, nor confirm there was an explosion, but said there was
no broader threat posed by the accident.


"The submarine was never in any danger, its nuclear reactor was
unaffected, it quickly surfaced and is completely safe," it said
in a statement.


"At this early stage, it is thought that the accident involved a
piece of air- purification equipment in the forward section of
the submarine.


"The ship's company dealt with the incident quickly and
professionally and, as a result, there is only superficial damage
to the forward compartment.


"It was submerged under the ice cap at the time of the incident.
The crew are trained in surfacing quickly through the ice, and
did so in exemplary fashion."


The ministry said relatives of the two submariners killed, who
have not been named, have been informed while the injured sailor
had been taken to a US military hospital and was expected to make
a full recovery.


US Navy officers added that the injured sailor was airlifted to a
hospital at Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage, Alaska.


The Times newspaper said one was killed in the blast and the
other died from inhaling fumes.


It quoted Royal Navy sources as saying the smoke had been
contained in the area of the explosion and there was no other
damage to equipment.


The Royal Navy and US Navy have been conducting joint exercises
in the Arctic since 1986.


Air purification equipment is fitted to all Trafalgar Class
submarines, of which Tireless is one of seven in the Royal Navy.


Oxygen-generation candles create the gas through a chemical
reaction, and some of the candles burn at high temperatures
during the reaction.


The defence ministry said the equipment had a 100 percent safety
record to date, but as a precaution its use on other submarines
has been restricted until safety checks can be carried out.


Britain's former first sea lord -- the country's top navy brass
-- retired admiral Sir Alan West told BBC radio the generators
had been fitted in 2001 and replaced an older, less safe system.


"They have been in there since 2001 and we have had no problems
with them up until now," he said.


On Arctic manoeuvres, submarine commanders know at all times
where the thinnest part of the ice is and can head for it in the
event of an emergency, he added.


Praising a textbook operation, he said: "The ship's crew
performed brilliantly."


HMS Tireless, based at Devonport, in Plymouth, southwest England,
was launched in 1984.


The vessel has had a controversial history, having to dock in the
British overseas territory of Gibraltar in May 2000 after a
coolant leak was discovered in its nuclear reactor.


It remained there for nearly a year, sparking tens of thousands
of people to protest in neighbouring Spain.


An defence ministry spokesman said the coolant leak in 2000-2001
was entirely unrelated to Wednesday's incident, and described the
2001 update to the air- purification machinery as "routine".


The dangers faced by submariners were highlighted in August 2000,
when the Russian Kursk sank in the Barents Sea, killing 118 crew.

