

Four people including a communist guerrilla have been charged
with the murders of two people associated with the left,
Philippine police said Thursday.


A police task force created to curb a spate of political killings
said three men were charged with the murder of Carlito Getrosa, a
member of the left-wing Bayan Muna (Nation First) political
party.


Police gave no other details about the identities or political
affiliation of the suspects, who remain at large two weeks after
Getrosa was gunned down near his home on the southern island of
Mindanao.


Chief Superintendent Geary Barias, the task force head, ordered
police to provide "security and protection to the witnesses and
the victim's family."


Meanwhile, police said they also filed murder charges against
Juanito Carabeo, an alleged communist New People's Army (NPA)
guerrilla leader, for the shooting death of a former comrade,
Felisa Ocampo, in the Bataan peninsula west of Manila earlier
this month.


Police said Ocampo had turned against her former comrades, and
joined a pro- government militia unit aiding the military in its
counter-insurgency campaign.


Bayan Muna officials have blamed so-called military "death
squads" for the murder of Getrosa, as well as those of more than
800 other activists killed since 2001.


They charge the killings are part of a government-sanctioned
military programme to stifle dissent against President Gloria
Arroyo, who denies the charge.


The military has repeatedly denied having a hand in the attacks
and instead blamed communist insurgents carrying out a bloody
purge of suspected spies among their ranks.


A fact-finding commission created by Arroyo as well as a UN human
rights rapporteur who conducted a probe into the murders have
both accused rogue elements within the armed forces of being
behind many of the killings.


Arroyo has ordered a probe into the allegations. She has also
created special courts to focus on the cases, as well as ordered
prosecutors to boost the government's witness protection program.


The NPA and its mother organisation Communist Party of the
Philippines has been waging a Maoist rebellion to overthrow
government since 1969 in one of the world's longest-running
communist insurgencies. The group is on Washington's list of
foreign terrorist organisations.

