

Hardcore computer game fans queued Thursday to be among the first
owners of a Sony Playstation 3 games console ahead of its
midnight launch in Europe, the Middle East and Australasia.


Sony and major retailers have talked up the long-delayed launch,
organising special late-night events for those who can't wait,
but there has been speculation that the PS3's hefty price tag
might deter consumers.


The PS3 has been outsold by rival Nintendo's Wii machine and
Microsoft's XBox 360 in the United States.


Outside the Virgin Megastore's flagship outlet in London, diehard
gamers had camped for 36 hours for the chance to grab the first
machines off the shelves at the stroke of midnight.


Steve Lynn, the Megastore's senior public relations manager, told
AFP that the consoles "are in a secure location within the
building locked up waiting for midnight."


Game, Britain's largest video games retailer, said it had ruled
out a midnight launch following discussions with police over
crowd safety.


"The launch of the PS3 is a big deal to our customers," said the
chain's marketing director Anna Macario.


"We are managing the launch so it is safe for them, and the only
thing they have to concentrate on is securing their new console."


The PS3 was originally scheduled for worldwide release in
November, but production problems meant it was only made
available in Japan and the United States, where there were punch-
ups and at least one shooting at frenzied launch events.


The Virgin Megastore in London said it had booked extra security
and free taxis to whisk gamers home and avoid them falling prey
to muggers.


In France, a special boat was due to ferry 1,000 PS3s along the
Seine to the foot of the Eiffel Tower, where enthusiasts will
brave the chilly Parisian night to get their hands on a console.


In Berlin, Robert Stoeller, head of the computer games department
at the Saturn electrical store, said: "We are expecting a lot of
people to start queuing from 9:00 pm ahead of it going on sale at
midnight.


"We'll stay open until 2:00 am, but like in other countries I am
expecting it to sell out in 60 minutes."


At the nearby Sony Centre, the company's European headquarters, a
rock concert was to be held to entertain fans waiting to buy a
console.


Australian gamers will be the first outside the United States and
Japan to experience the PS3, with a 1300 GMT launch at the Myer
department store in Sydney.


A Sony spokesman said 10,000 consoles -- Sony's answer to the
challenge thrown down by the Wii and the XBox 360 -- had been
pre-ordered in Australia.


The PS3 does not come cheap, costing 599 euros (800 dollars) in
Europe and 425 pounds (836 dollars/626 euros) in Britain.


In the United States, Nintendo's cheaper Wii console outsold the
new Sony in February by more than two-to-one, according to the
NPD Group consultancy.


However, For Ritatsu Thomas, 17, who headed the queue outside the
Virgin megastore in London, the wait and cost are worth it.


"It will mean a lot to be the first person in Britain to get
one," he told AFP.


The graphic design student from southwest London took a sleeping
bag, a flask, vitamin pills and a teach yourself Japanese book to
pass the time.


Some gaming fanatics were not buying into the hype, criticising
Sony's decision to sell only the top-of-the-line 60-gigabyte
version of the PS3 in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and
Australasia.


Chris Stead, former editor of Australian GamePro, said he would
not rush to buy the console, which retails for 1,000 dollars (808
US) in Australia, even though he was impressed with features such
as a Blu-ray DVD player.


Stead said the gaming community was concerned the PS3 lacked
"backward compatibility," meaning they could not use it to play
games purchased for the PS1 and PS2.


"The backward compatibility of the version they're selling here
is much lower than in the US and Japan, so we're being asked to
pay top dollar for an inferior product," he told AFP.


"You're going to have to download patches and fixes to be able to
play your PS1 and PS2 games and a lot of people aren't going to
bother."

