

About 40 Taliban fighters were killed in clashes with Afghan and
NATO forces in southern Afghanistan Thursday, police said, as
troops elsewhere captured eight suspected militants.


The troops also "captured Taliban ground" in an operation under
way in the southern province of Helmand, the police chief for the
province's Gereshk district, Habibullah Khan, told AFP.


The security forces had launched the operation from Gereshk and
the provincial capital Lashkar Gah, to the southwest, said the
acting police chief for the province, Isau Khan. The towns are 35
kilometres (20 miles) apart.


"In the anti-Taliban joint operation which started this morning
from both Laskhkar Gah and Gereshk, so far around 40 Taliban have
been killed," Khan said. "Around 10 others ... are arrested."


Khan said there had also been casualties to the Afghan forces but
he could not say how many, with the offensive still under way.


"There is serious fighting," he said.


The media office of NATO's International Security Assistance
Force in Kabul in northern Afghanistan could only confirm there
had been "an incident" in the area.


Gereshk police chief Habibullah Khan told AFP earlier in the day,
"We have captured the Taliban ground and the operation is still
ongoing."


Helmand has been the scene of fierce battles between Taliban
fighters and government and NATO forces in the past months.
Military officials admit parts of it are under rebel control.


An Italian journalist and two Afghans were abducted in the
province on March 4. The correspondent was released after 15 days
in captivity in exchange for Taliban prisoners, but his driver
was beheaded. The translator is believed to still be with the
Taliban.


US-led coalition and Afghan troops meanwhile Thursday captured
eight suspected militants and men said to help fighters pass into
Afghanistan from Pakistan, where US officials allege there are
militant training camps.


Five were captured in the eastern province of Kunar in a raid on
"extremist facilitators suspected of helping militant fighters"
enter from Pakistan's tribally administered Bajaur Agency, the
coalition said in statement.


Two more, said to be commanders, were arrested in Helmand's
Gereshk in a strike on a compound where intelligence said there
were militants involved in "anti- government activity."


In the eastern province of Khost, troops arrested one person
after uncovering a small weapons cache and other contraband
items, another statement said.


The Taliban were forced from power in late 2001 in a US-led
offensive.


There are about 50,000 foreign troops, with the coalition and the
separate NATO force, supporting efforts by the undermanned and
underequipped Afghan army and police to take on the militants and
stabilise the country.

