

Zimbabwe's Catholic Archbishop Pius Ncube urged his countrymen
Thursday to stand up to the iron-fisted government of President
Robert Mugabe.


"My biggest worry is Zimbabweans are cowards," Ncube told a
meeting convened by the Zimbabwe Christian Alliance, which also
organised a prayer rally thwarted this month by security forces
who arrested and assaulted opposition leaders.


"That very fear (of death) is the demise of Zimbabwe," he said,
highlighting that many were already dying as a result of
deprivation brought on by the political and economic downturn
blamed on Mugabe's policies.


"It's time for a radical stance, not soft speeches and
cowardice," said Ncube, an outspoken critic of the government of
83-year-old Mugabe, who has been in power since Zimbabwe's
independence in 1980.


He called on Zimbabweans to take part in peaceful protests,
saying: "Now we must just stand up to this government, stand up
and fill the streets and demand this man (Mugabe) to stand down
right now. I am willing to stand in front.


"The time is now."


Ncube said many people have died of malnutrition in a country
with unemployment of 80 percent and inflation at 1,730 percent,
while others perished in hospitals while doctors and nurses were
on strike.


"How many have been eaten by crocodiles while trying to cross the
Limpopo river into South Africa and how many have died in Lindela
(a detention camp for illegal immigrants in South Africa)?"


Church leaders were too fond of comfort to risk their lives and
privileges to lead protests against Mugabe's government, Ncube
charged.


"As long as we are in for comfort, we are not going to get rid of
these oppressors," he said.


"I urge that the pastors to get off the comfort of their seats
and suffer with the people. The pastors must be the ones in front
of the blazing guns. There is no guns or atomic power that is
going to conquer."


The Church group reported the death of another opposition
activist arrested when police blocked its prayer rally at
Highfields township on March 11.


"We understand that Itai Manyeruke, who was 30, was among the
group of people who were injured during the beatings by the
police and taken to Harare hospital where he died," said Lucky
Moyo, spokesman for the Christian Alliance.


"We only learnt about his death yesterday (Wednesday)."

