

Expanding drug resistance and HIV/AIDS threaten to reverse
tangible gains made in the global fight against tuberculosis, the
World Health Organisation warned Thursday.


The global tuberculosis epidemic is showing signs of slowing for
the first time since the WHO declared it a global health
emergency in 1993, the UN's health agency said in a report on
attempts to control TB.


The overall number of cases continued to increase in line with
the world's population growth, reaching 8.79 million in 2005,
against 8.71 million a year earlier.


Virtually no country in the world is spared, with cases reported
in 199 nations, the report said. The overwhelming majority -- 7.4
million -- are found in Asia and sub Saharan Africa.


However, the proportion of the population struck by the
infectious respiratory disease stayed level and even declined in
some regions, the report added.


"We are currently seeing both the fruits of global action to
control TB and the lethal nature of the disease's ongoing
burden," said UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.


"Almost 60 percent of TB cases worldwide are now detected and,
out of those, the vast majority are cured," he added. "But the
disease still kills 4,400 people a day."


The progress identified in the report falls far short of meeting
of a UN target of halving prevalence of the disease by 2015,
health officials warned.


"There are serious challenges to the progress we have made. We
need to redouble our efforts," WHO Director General Margaret Chan
said.


More than 2.1 million people were receiving multidrug treatment
recommended by the WHO (DOTS), which is regarded as highly
effective but requires steady medical follow-up and patient
discipline.


The "DOTS" diagnosis and treatment programme was available in 187
countries by 2005, but access was uneven, the WHO said.


Seven of the 22 countries worst affected by TB, including five
African nations, had insufficient plans to expand health staff,
according to the report.


"We need to tackle this problem as part of the larger challenge
of increasing access to primary health care services," Chan said.


"All people, no matter who they are or where they are, should
have access to TB diagnosis and treatment as part of package of
general health services that bring multiple health benefits," she
added.


The "DOTS" package has formed the cornerstone of efforts to
prevent drug resistance in recent years and has expanded. The
report said treatment and cure targets were narrowly missed in
2005, except in 26 countries in the Pacific region and in south
East Asia.


The WHO also fears that "little effort" is being made to screen
HIV patients for tuberculosis especially in Africa.


HIV/AIDS patients with their weakened immune systems are highly
susceptible to tuberculosis infections, and accounted for 195,000
of the 1.6 million TB deaths in 2005.


"In most cases tuberculosis is both curable and preventable,
(yet) certainly in Africa is the first known cause of death of
people living with HIV," Peter Piot, the head of UNAIDS, told
journalists.


The report also underlined that the global scale of "extensively
drug resistant" strains of tuberculosis (XDR-TB) discovered last
year "is not yet known."


"It is really alarming because of the high mortality rate of
people infected with these strains, which are resistant to all
known anti-TB drugs. It is a serious threat to the global
response," Piot said.


Health officials underlined that drug resistance thrived on
inadequate investment and poor health services.


"Beyond that, because of the threat of XDR-TB, research to
identify new diagnostics, drugs and medicines is more vital than
ever," said Mauro Raviglione, head of the WHO's anti-TB
programme.

