

Tearful French legend Virginie Dedieu, enticed out of retirement
to compete in Melbourne, won her third successive solo
synchronised swimming world title Thursday.


The 28-year-old, whose routine is based on the life of opera diva
Maria Callas, was intense, passionate and dramatic in her routine
to score 99.500 to add to the gold she won in Barcelona in 2003
and Montreal in 2005.


Russia's Natalia Ischenko, looking to add a fifth gold to her
country's synchronised swimming haul here, had to settle for
silver with 98.500.


Spain's Gemma Mengual Civil, known as "The Princess of Barcelona,
won the bronze with 98.000. Japan's Saho Harada lacked the
presence of the top three but still produced a high score for
fourth place.


Dedieu, who will now retire for good, burst into tears when she
realised she had won and jumped the barrier in the Rod Laver
Arena to embrace her boyfriend in the crowd.


"I don't know what to say. It's simply superb. Especially after
one year of retirement," she said.


"It was hard, but in the end I was successful. I've been working
really hard for four months for this success.


"It's comparable (to her other medals). It was the same
preparation, the same hard work I put into it. What makes it
different was that I was coming back from retirement."


Ischenko said Dedieu deserved to win and she was content with
second.


"I performed with honour against an opponent who was very
experienced," she said.


"It was tough to beat her, but I didn't compete for the podium, I
just wanted to do the best that I could.


"I learnt only three months ago that she was coming back. I
cannot comment on this, but it is her right to return. She
definitely deserved to win because there are big values in her
routine."


World junior champion, Huang Xuechen of China, impressed with her
graceful movements to finish seventh and show why she is seen as
an upcoming star of the future.


There are two more synchronised swimming golds to be decided --
the duet free routine on Friday and the team free routine on
Saturday.

