

The newest and most advanced US aircraft carrier arrived Thursday
in South Korea to take part in major military exercises which
North Korea said could jeopardise nuclear disarmament talks.


The USS Ronald Reagan, plus a cruiser and two destroyers, will
join tens of thousands of US and South Korean soldiers in the
exercises, which the allies say are purely defensive in nature.


The communist state routinely protests at the annual drills,
which it calls a preparation for invasion.


"These are very dangerous provocations casting a shadow over the
implementation of an agreement adopted with much effort at the
six-party talks on February 13 and the progress of the talks,"
said a North Korean foreign ministry spokesman.


"Dialogue and sabre-rattling cannot go together. The US and South
Korean warlike forces will be wholly responsible for all the
adverse consequences to be entailed by their provocative military
actions," said the spokesman quoted by the official Korean
Central News Agency.


The North agreed at six-party talks on February 13 to scrap its
nuclear programmes in return for economic aid and diplomatic
benefits. But the latest six-party round remained deadlocked
Thursday in a dispute about the repayment of North Korean funds
which had been frozen in a Macau bank.


The US military says the week-long exercises starting Sunday,
RSOI (Reception, Staging, Onward Movement and Integration) and
Foal Eagle, are purely designed to test the ability of allied
forces to defend South Korea against attack and to receive
reinforcements from overseas.


The US forces say they have told North Korea that "this is a
defensive military readiness exercise, and that it is not meant
to be provocative in any way."


The US has stationed tens of thousands of troops in the South
since the Korean war began in June 1950 with an invasion by the
North.


Currently some 29,500 US troops are stationed here to help
680,000 South Korean forces face up to North Korea's 1.1-million-
strong military.


The carrier group's visit to South Korea and involvement in the
drills "is a sign of the depth of commitment on the part of the
US to the peace and security and stability of the Korean
peninsula and the region," said Rear Admiral Charlie Martoglio,
commander of the carrier group.


The USS Ronald Reagan commander, Captain Terry Kraft, declined to
give details of the exercises during a visit Wednesday by
journalists to the ship.


But he said his ship will "be exercising a broad range of
missions."


The carrier, commissioned in July 2003, is almost as long as the
Empire State Building is tall (more than 330 metres or 1,090
feet) and carries more than 5,000 crew.


Its two nuclear reactors give it a top speed of more than 30
knots. Its air wing includes the F18 Super Hornet, the F18 Sea
Hornet, EA6B Prowler radar-jamming aircraft, E-2C Hawkeye
airborne early warning aircraft and helicopters.

