

Officials in South Korea said Thursday they would issue warnings
on the bird flu drug Tamiflu, the second Asian nation to do so
after Japan following reports of abnormal behaviour by young
users.


The alert notices will advise doctors to monitor patients for any
sign of psychological side-effects after a series of incidents in
Japan -- including suicides -- raised questions over the
blockbuster drug.


Swiss pharmaceutical Roche has repeatedly denied any connection
between the incidents and its drug, which is often prescribed for
seasonal flu.


Japan said Thursday that it had no plans to stop stockpiling
Tamiflu for a possible avian flu outbreak, while several other
Asian nations which stock or prescribe the drug say they do not
intend to issue alerts for the moment.


Nevertheless, the reports have raised concerns because of the
prevalence of bird flu, which has killed at least 169 people
across the world since the end of 2003, the vast majority of them
in Asia.


"We plan to issue a special document to doctors and pharmacists
that notifies them of recent reports of suicides and strange
behaviour by people who have taken the drug," said Shin Joon-Soo,
an official with South Korea's Food and Drug Administration.


"The document will also advise medical experts to report
immediately to officials when witnessing similar mental
symptoms," Shin was quoted by Yonhap news agency as saying.


Tamiflu has come under investigation in Japan after dozens of
people who took the drug killed themselves. In a recent case, a
14-year-old boy leapt to his death last month from the 11th floor
of an apartment block.


"It's hard to say what the link between Tamiflu and the deaths
is," said Professor Katsuhisa Nakajima at Nagoya City University
Medical School.


"But it seems that once it comes into contact with the nervous
system it has adverse effects," he added.


Japan on Wednesday instructed Roche's Japanese subsidiary to warn
against prescribing it for teenagers, although an investigation
last year by the US Food and Drug Administration into the deaths
concluded there was no link.


Tokyo buys more than 60 percent of the world's supply of Tamiflu,
which is considered a frontline drug against a potential pandemic
of bird flu or other forms of influenza.


Earlier this month the health ministry said it would increase its
stocks to cover a total of 28 million people in the event of a
bird flu epidemic, and a spokesman Thursday said that plan had
not changed.


"The Tamiflu that is stocked is not used for the popular form of
influenza but for bird flu, against which we have no other
weapon," he added.


In Indonesia, the country worst hit by bird flu with a human
death toll of 66, the health ministry said it would not issue
warnings.


"We do not detect any abnormal behaviour from recipients of the
drug," I Nyoman Kandun, a senior health ministry official, told
AFP, adding that more than 1,000 doses of the drug had been
administered in the country.


Singapore said it was closely monitoring the overseas reports of
abnormal behaviour and would take action if needed.


Suwarin Chaturapit, a deputy director at the Health Sciences
Authority, said there was still no "direct causal link" between
such behaviour and Tamiflu.


In the Philippines, where Tamiflu is administered as a regular
antiviral medicine, a spokesman for the health department's
disease control centre said there were no plans to issue warnings
similar to those in Japan.


Thailand produces its own generic version of Tamiflu, and a
senior official at the Food and Drug Administration said they had
not experienced any such side effects.


"We have never had any evidence of such effects," the official
said, adding though that doctors would be vigilant.

