

A global outcry over Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's crackdown
on opposition leaders has placed an uncomfortable spotlight on
South Africa's policy of "quiet diplomacy" towards its troubled
neighbour.


African leaders have started to join Britain and the United
States in calling for some regional resolution to the economic
and political turmoil in Zimbabwe, where the 83-year-old Mugabe
has ruled since independence in 1980.


But South Africa, the regional powerhouse which itself relied on
foreign pressure to bring an end to the whites-only apartheid
regime, insists its neighbour has to chart its own destiny.


While expressing concern this week about the "deteriorating
situation", the South African government insisted that only
dialogue among the "main political protagonists" in Zimbabwe
could bring about a lasting solution to the current crisis.


African leaders have in the past closed ranks around Mugabe,
opting to remain silent about Zimbabwe's political and economic
slide, but the worsening situation has prompted some to speak
out.


Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa likened Zimbabwe to a "sinking
Titanic" in need of help, and urged southern African nations to
get involved.


Former Zambian leader Kenneth Kaunda urged African leaders to
appoint a committee of eminent people to mediate in the crisis.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has dirctly urged South
Africa to "lend their voice to efforts to stop the political
violence that is ongoing in Zimbabwe".


Chris Maroleng of the Pretoria-based Institute for Security
Studies said Thursday said Pretoria's traditional softly-softly
policy towards Harare had clearly failed to yield positive
results.


"South African quiet diplomacy is based on the idea, principally,
that change in Zimbabwe has to be homegrown, that the solution to
the crisis should come from the Zimbabwean people," Maroleng
said.


"The irony is that the space does not exist in Zimbabwe for this
kind of engagement between the various stakeholders," he said,
adding that Mugabe had "cleverly" succeeded in creating the idea
among his peers that Zimbabwe had been punished by the West for
its programme of "social justice".


"Countries like South Africa who seek to engage in Zimbabwe get
caught in this pan-African trap that Mugabe has set ... in which
they become puppets of the West," he said.


Steven Friedman, a research associate at the Institue for
Democracy in South Africa, blames defensiveness for South
Africa's failure to speak out.


"Because white bigots use the Mugabe government as a stick with
which to beat black aspirations, the response is not to try to
fix the problem but to close ranks behind those who cause it," he
said in an opinion piece published in Thursday's Business Day
newspaper.


The head of the Catholic church in Zimbabwe, Archbishop Pius
Ncube, criticised the South African government Tuesday for
failing to rein in Mugabe, saying it was in the best position to
do so.


"They could force Mugabe to change but they have been watching
this thing. It's now the eighth year it has been deteriorating,"
Ncube said.


And retired archbishop and Nobel peace laureate Desmond Tutu
recently told African leaders to hang their hands in shame.

