

Malaysia and Thailand on Thursday agreed to map out a series of
socio-economic measures to end rising sectarian tensions and
violence in the kingdom's insurgency-wracked south.


Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar said the crisis in
mostly Buddhist Thailand's Muslim-majority southern region was
not related to religion or Islam.


"It has nothing to do with Islam. The Muslims and Buddhists have
lived in the area peacefully. It is a feeling of alienation,
discontent and socio-economic problems," Syed Hamid told
reporters.


"The Thai side recognises the fact that they have problems ...
They know socio- economic activity will be one of the measures to
be taken to overcome the problem," he said after meeting with
Thai counterpart Nitya Pibulsonggram.


Syed Hamid said he would attend a joint meeting in Thailand with
agencies from both nations in April or May to discuss the
measures, including teacher and vocational training for Thais.


"We would like to see economic progress. Our immediate attention
is how the violence can cease," he said.


Thai Muslims in the kingdom's south share close cultural links
with neighbours in majority Muslim Malaysia, and Syed Hamid said
his country would also help Bangkok to better understand its
minority population.


"The Thais are keen to learn in programmes related to youth
training, religion and the administration of Muslim affairs,"
said the minister.


Malaysia and Thailand last month agreed to boost cooperation to
end three years of separatist unrest in the Thailand's south in
which 2,000 people have died.


Syed Hamid said Bangkok was "doing everything possible" to stop
the violence, but warned there would be no easy solution.


"I don't think you can address these things overnight," he said.
"This is not a new problem. It is over 100 years old."


Southern Thailand, which was once an autonomous Malay sultanate,
has suffered outbreaks of separatist violence ever since Bangkok
annexed the area a century ago.


Nitya, who arrived in Thursday for a two-day visit, is due to
meet Malaysia's Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi on Friday.

