

Africa's latest attempt to keep the peace on its home turf faces
enormous challenges in the shattered nation of Somalia, which has
been without an effective government for over 16 years.


Plans call for the African Mission in Somalia, or AMISOM, to
deploy a total of 8,000 troops for a six month period, although
to date only 4,000 have been pledged by the 53 member states of
the African Union.


And since the mission began on March 6, only 1,500 Ugandan
soldiers have arrived in the Horn of Africa nation.


They are all deployed in the capital Mogadishu, which in recent
days has seen bitter fighting, with the bodies of several dead
soldiers being dragged through the streets and burned.


The force is equipped with T-55 battle tanks, a weapon built in
the former Soviet Union, plus armoured troop transporters and
mortars.


Captain Paddy Ankunda, the Ugandan force's spokesman, said there
were no plans at present for helicopter-borne air support.


Ankunda added that his contingent included 40 female troops,
whose task was to conduct searches of women.


The African force's rules of engagement allow it to fire back if
attacked, but it does not have a mandate to act as a buffer
between the belligerents.


The latter include troops of the internationally-recognised
Somalian government and forces sent from neighbouring Ethiopia to
back them up, ranged against local Islamic militias.


The Ethiopian forces, which entered the country in December last
year to oust the Islamic movement that had seized power in the
capital, are in the process of withdrawing.


In addition to Uganda, Nigeria, Ghana, Malawi and Burundi have so
far agreed to send troops to take part in the mission.


The last year in which Somalia had an effective government was
1990; the country has been in chaos since the regime of Mohamed
Siad Barre was ousted in a coup in January of that year.


The intervention of Ethiopian troops, with support from the
United States, last December, put an end to a short-lived period
of relative calm under the Islamic Courts movement, which had won
control of Mogadishu in July 2006.

