

The prime minister of Iraqi Kurdistan raised fresh calls on
Thursday for a referendum to decide the future of the country's
crucial oil hub of Kirkuk, warning that Kurdish patience had
limits.


"Our people are committed to Iraq, but their patience is not
unlimited. We as leaders are finding it difficult to convince our
people as to why our demands are not being met," Nichirvan
Barzani told dignitaries in Arbil.


Iraq's Kurds have long dreamed of independence from the Arab-led
centre, but agreed to put demands on hold following the US-led
invasion of March 2003, which they hoped would lead to improved
relations between the regions.


Addressing guests at the opening of a new US-financed water
treatment plant in the capital of Iraqi Kurdistan, Barzani said
the central government had yet to meet four key Kurdish demands.


"We demand a fair share of resources of the country, the issue of
Kirkuk to be resolved democratically, freedom to share
reconstruction funds and freedom to democracy and political
rights," he said.


"It is our natural right to share resources and we must have
access to the budgetary process. The time is now to solve these
problems," he said.


Speaking about wealthy and volatile Kirkuk, which the Kurds want
to incorporate into their autonomous northern region, Barzani
stressed: "Whatever is taken by force should be returned
peacefully and democratically."


Iraq's constitution stipulates that the status of Kirkuk, which
sits atop a third of the country's mammoth oil wealth, be settled
by referendum before the end of 2007, despite fears that this
could fuel ethnic violence.


A fractious ethnic mix of Kurds, Arabs and Turkmen live in Kirkuk
and any referendum on its future is likely to provoke increased
tensions.


On what he said would be his last visit to Iraqi Kurdistan,
outgoing US ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, heaped praise
on the region and highlighted an Iraqi move towards greater
decentralisation.


"There has been too much violence and pain in many parts of Iraq,
but thank God not in Kurdistan,"  he said.


"As you know Iraq is going through difficult transition. I am
proud that the tyrannical regime of Saddam Hussein was overthrown
by the US," he said.


He said: "The United States is committed to support Iraq. We are
partners in building a new Iraq. We are committed to success in
Iraq, but success requires Iraqi leaders to make the right
decisions and compromises to reduce violence."


He also stressed that Iraq was now changing from a centralised
government rule to a "more decentralised" regional governments.


"The Kurdistan of Iraq has taken the advantage of opportunities,"
he said.


"The region is attracting investments after its attractive
investment laws. I urge you to encourage and strengthen the rule
of law and ensure everyone is treated equally."


Before ending his speech he said "This will be the last time I
will be visiting you as ambassador. I will be leaving Iraq in a
few days. Kurdistan is my blood. I will never forget Kurdistan
and will continue to do whatever I can for it in whatever
position I hold."


After opening the Irfaz water treatment plant at Arbil, Khalilzad
later went to meet Massud Barzani, president of the Kurdish
regional government.


The plant is one of many projects financed by the US in
Kurdistan. The project cost is around 200 million dollars.

