

The head of a bank at the centre of Algeria's biggest corruption
scandal was sentenced in absentia Thursday to life in prison.


Rafik Khalifa has been exiled in London since 2003, when hundreds
of millions of dollars was discovered missing from the Khalifa
Bank. Algeria has been seeking his extradition.


The court in Blida, southern Algeria, sentenced him to life in
prison for, among other charges, fraud, embezzlement, theft and
forgery.


The exiled former governor of the central bank, Abdelawahab
Keramane, and five others were also sentenced in abstentia to 20
years in prison.


Khalifa's wife received a 10-year sentence, as did former
industry minister Abdennour Keramane and his daughter Yasmine,
the former representative of Khalifa Airways in Milan, Italy.


The court also ordered the seizure of the assets of all those
convicted.


Prosecutors had called for life sentences for all of them.


As they were convicted in absentia, they are not able to appeal
the sentences. But if arrested or extradited or if they give
themselves up, they would be retried.


Khalifa, 40, was arrested by British police on suspicion of
money-laundering in February and given bail. He was questioned on
Tuesday before being bailed again until May 22.


An extradition treaty between Algeria and Britain came into force
last month. But lawyers say the extradition process involving
Khalifa could be lengthy.


Late Wednesday, the court in Blida sentenced 45 others to prison
terms in connection with the Khalifa scandal, and acquitted 94
defendants.


The 10-week trial, which saw ministers, trade union leaders and
the heads of public companies testify for the first time in
Algerian history, revealed a system riddled with corruption and
incompetence at the highest levels.


The defence team blamed lax supervision by the authorities and in
particular the Bank of Algeria, for the scandal.


Investigations into other parts of Khalifa's business empire,
which included an airline and two television channels, are
expected to come to trial at a later date.

