

Zimbabwe's cash-strapped national carrier, Air Zimbabwe, on
Thursday announced fare increases of up to 168 percent on both
international and domestic routes.


Air Zimbabwe spokesman David Mwenga said the airline had been
forced into the drastic mark-up in order to catch up on surging
overhead costs.


"Our fuel costs from private companies such as Total have gone up
by 60 percent over the past week," Mwenga said.


"We recently gave our staff a 450 percent salary increase,
catering costs are going up every week. Although we have
increased our fares by almost 170 percent they are still very low
when compared to other regional airlines."


The increasing economic meltdown in Zimbabwe, with inflation now
standing at some 1,730 percent and four out of five people
unemployed, has helped fan the growing unrest towards veteran
President Robert Mugabe.


The new fares will see travellers to Dubai paying between 4.5
million Zimbabwe dollars (18,000 US dollars at the official
exchnage rate) for a return ticket -- up from 2.3 million
Zimbabwe dollars.


A return ticket to London has shot up to nine million Zimbabwe
dollars from 3.5 million Zimbabwe dollars while an economy class
return ticket to Johannesburg will now cost 1.9 million Zimbabwe
dollars, from 700,000.


Mwenga said catering costs had increased by 36 - 54 percent over
the past fortnight.


"More than 80 percent of our costs are foreign currency
denominated and we do not access money for them at the official
rate," he said.


Since August last year, the local unit has been pegged at 250
Zimbabwe dollars against the green back, yet on the thriving
black market the same unit fetches 15,000 Zimbabwe dollars.


Air Zimbabwe's fortunes have been flagging in recent years
because of shortages of fuel and spare parts.


Dwindling tourism numbers have contributed significantly to the
carrier's problems as visitors from traditional tourism markets,
such as the United States and western Europe, have shunned the
southern African country.


Zimbabwe has been experiencing fuel shortages for the past six
years blamed on hard currency shortfalls.

