

US and coalition forces have arrested a former leading supporter
of radical Iraqi cleric Moqtada al-Sadr for the kidnapping and
murder of five American soldiers, officials said on Thursday.


A statement from the US military said coalition forces had in
recent days arrested Qais Khazali and his brother Laith Khazali
in the Shiite cities of Hilla and Basra along with "several other
members of the Khazali network".


It described the group as being "directly connected to the
kidnapping and murder in January of five American soldiers in
Karbala".


The Khazali brothers were formerly ranking members of Sadr's
Shiite movement, and Qais served as its spokesman in August 2004
during battles between US troops and the cleric's Mahdi Army
militia.


But Sadr officials told AFP on Thursday that Qais Khazali had
split from the Mahdi Army and was operating on his own, and that
there were rumours he had received Iranian backing.


The US statement made no reference to the pair's political links.


On January 20, gunmen disguised in US army uniforms breezed past
security checks and attacked a provincial security building in
the Karbala province of central Iraq during a visit by American
troops to their Iraqi counterparts.


One US soldier died in the assault and four were captured. Their
slain bodies were later found in the attackers' abandoned SUV
vehicles, along with their disguises and US-style weapons and
radios.


It was not the most deadly attack on US troops in the four-year
war, but it was one of the most sophisticated and carefully
planned, leading some reports to speculate about complicity
between Iraqi officials and the attackers.


Some Internet reports have also alleged Iranian involvement.


The Pentagon regards Sadr's Mahdi Army as the single most
dangerous faction in Iraq's sectarian civil war, and in recent
months more than 700 members of his movement have been arrested.


Iraq's Shiite-led government, however, insists Sadr supports a
new security plan designed to end violence between Sunni and
Shiite factions, despite a US claim that he has fled to Iran.

