

Ireland's historic place in the World Cup second round is
assured, but Niall O'Brien can't wait to pit his wits against
West Indies skipper Brian Lara in Friday's final match in Group
D.


Both sides have already guaranteed their Super Eight slots, but
the winner in the Sabina Park clash will have the advantage of
taking an extra two points into the next stage with them.


For feisty wicketkeeper O'Brien, who has just signed for humble
Northants in the English county championship, that's incentive
enough to lock horns once again with superstar Lara.


Back in 2004 the two men had a vociferous fall-out in a one-dayer
at Stormont in Northern Ireland when the teams shared a two-match
series.


O'Brien was angered by the West Indian's unwillingness to walk
after an apparent edge.


But he had the consolation of making 58 to see his side shock
their illustrious visitors.


"Lara was funny," recalls O'Brien. "We had that disagreement at
Stormont and then two days later I turned up to play against him
for (former county) Kent. I don't think he could believe his
eyes.


"I think he'd seen enough of me. I talked to (West Indies team-
mate) Dwayne Bravo recently and he said 'Brian said to say
hello'. I'm looking forward to seeing him in Jamaica."


Ireland have booked a historic place in the World Cup second
round where they will be guaranteed matches against the likes of
two-time defending champions Australia as well as world number
one South Africa.


They reached the Super Eights courtesy of a tie with Zimbabwe and
a shock win over 1992 world champions Pakistan.


O'Brien, who has brother Kevin for company in the team, insists
he will use his tough approach to the sport to try and help his
side progress even further.


"I'm a fiery character. I play aggressive cricket. That's part of
my game. If I wasn't you'd be taking away 50 percent of the
player I am," said O'Brien.


Ireland's Australian-born captain Trent Johnston, who hit the
winning six against Pakistan, said his team will not be overawed
by the West Indies, the world champions in 1975 and 1979.


"We'll take on the West Indies with confidence and give a good
performance," said Johnston. "We will give it 100-percent and be
very competitive."


West Indies will want to play with a lot more vigour than they
did when Zimbabwe made them sweat for a six-wicket victory last
Monday.


"We will play this match against Ireland as though it is a match
in the Super Eights, to try to get ourselves focussed, and ready
to play in the next stage of the competition," coach Bennett King
said.


"I don't think Ireland have played above expectations because
they have got a very sound bowling attack, and their top five
batsmen have certainly done the job for them in the Associates'
competitions.


"We have identified some strengths and weaknesses."


King is aware of what happened in Belfast in 2004 when West
Indies lost by six wickets, with the Irish reaching an impressive
295 for four.


"We will treat it like a Super Eight game and it is going to be
very important for us, since we want to go through in the No. 1
position and carry the two points through to the next stage."


King disclosed that West Indies may consider changing their
winning line-up. It has nothing to do with complacency or the
strength of their opponents. He feels it is essential to give
playing time to a couple more players ahead of the tough Super
Eight stage.


Ireland have a new-found sense of self belief following their win
over 1992 World Cup champions Pakistan.


"Every game we enter, we look to win," coach Adrian Birrell said.


"We will be looking for an improved performance against West
Indies. We will be looking to bowl less extras. We will be
looking to get more balls in good areas. We will be looking to be
more consistent. We will also be looking to maintain the fielding
standard and batting standard that we set against Pakistan.


Birrell described the match as a very big one for Ireland.


"If we can do the basic things right, I think we can give a good
performance," he said.


"Obviously, it will be tough, but we have gained some momentum,
and we relish this opportunity to test ourselves against them."


West Indies open the Super Eight campaign against reigning
champions Australia on March 27 in Antigua.


Three days later, Ireland face England in their opening Super
Eight match in Gyuana.

