

President Chen Shui-bian on Thursday asked Taiwan's biggest steel
mill to change its name in his latest bid to underscore the
island's separate identity from rival China.


The independence-leaning Chen said the name of China Steel
Corporation (CSC) was misleading and something must be done about
it.


Chen has repeatedly complained that the CSC, a private firm in
which the government owns a 22.66 percent stake as the single
biggest shareholder, failed to respond to his name-change
initiative.


"The company is right here in Kaohsiung and has nothing to do
with China," Chen said while attending the company's inauguration
of a new production line in the southern city of Kaohsiung.


"Therefore its name must be changed so as to avoid confusion."


Under Chen's order, two state-run enterprises -- Chunghwa
("Chinese") Post Co. and Chinese Petroleum Corporation (CPC) --
in February changed their names to Taiwan Post Co. and CPC
Corporation, Taiwan, despite protests from union members.


On March 1, the Chinese name of state-run China Shipbuilding
Corp. was changed to "Taiwan International Shipbuilding Corp."
and "Taiwan" added to its original English name.


The name-change drive aimed at cutting links with the Chinese
mainland has sparked strong criticism from the opposition, led by
the Kuomintang (KMT), which favours improved ties with Beijing.


Chen of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party ended the KMT's
51-year grip on power when he was elected president in 2000. He
was re-elected in 2004.


The name changes have also touched off concern from Washington
which fears such steps could fuel cross-strait tensions.


"We do not support administrative steps by the Taiwan authorities
that would appear to change Taiwan's status unilaterally or move
toward independence," the US State Department said in a statement
earlier this month.


"The United States does not, for instance, support changes in
terminology for entities administered by the Taiwan authorities,"
it said.


Names and titles are highly symbolic issues in the row between
Taiwan and China, which split at the end of a civil war in 1949.


Beijing still regards the island as part of its territory
awaiting reunification, by force if necessary.

