

New Zealand coach John Bracewell admits his "selfish" life in
charge of an international team has had an impact upon his family
as he gave an insight into the stresses of the job just days
after Bob Woolmer's death cast a shadow over the World Cup.


Woolmer, the coach of Pakistan, died in hospital in Jamaica on
Sunday after being found unconscious in his hotel room less than
24 hours after his side's shock World Cup elimination following a
defeat by Ireland.


Police in Jamaica are treating the death as suspicious.


However, Bracewell said all those in charge of leading teams knew
what the job entailed.


Like his friend Woolmer, who was in charge at neighbouring
Warwickshire before joining South Africa, Bracewell enjoyed a
successful spell coaching another English county,
Gloucestershire, ahead of moving back to New Zealand in 2003.


The former New Zealand off-spinner said there was no comparison
in terms of the impact of his current job on those closest to him
compared to the several years he spent transforming
Gloucestershire into the premier English county in one-day
cricket.


"The intensity is a little bit different. The travel, the away
from home stuff makes the pressure of it a lot more intense.


"Gloucestershire was ... a really enjoyable part of our family
lifestyle.


"This is a little bit probably more selfish. You are running off,
you don't see your family for long, long periods of time, so it's
a bit harder."


But he added: "You do it by choice, no one forces you."


And while Bracewell is not subject to the stress involved in
coaching a team like rugby-centred New Zealand as Woolmer was in
having to lead the national side in cricket-crazy Pakistan, he
said 'worrying' was integral to the job.


"As a coach you constantly worry. That's part of the job
description, the worry of the next game and how far ahead you can
look."


New Zealand have already booked their place in the second phase
Super Eight stage of the World Cup after convincing wins over
England (six-wickets) and Kenya (148 runs).


Teams that have qualified from the same Group do not face each
other in the Super Eights although the side that won their pool
match carries forward two points.


And Bracewell was in no doubt about who he would like to see win
Saturday's match between England and Kenya which is now a shoot-
out for a second round spot.


"There's no doubt the more upsets that happen in other pools will
assist us and there's no doubt we'd like to take England through
because it makes everybody else's job a darn sight harder.


"Then you can work out how many games you have to win. But the
bottom line is you want to win all the games because you want to
keep the momentum, keep the confidence," added Bracewell, whose
side finished third in last month's triangular series in
Australia where England, after a poor start, beat world champions
Australia 2-0 in the final.


But New Zealand had a pre-World Cup boost of their own in
defeating Australia 3-0 in the subsequent Chappell-Hadlee Trophy
series before coming back down to earth with a warm-up defeat
against Bangladesh.


"I said at the time it could be the best or worst thing for us.
One was because of that confidence, the other was 'pull your head
in, you've just thrashed Australia 3-0 and you may need a little
bit of a wake-up call'. As it turned out it was a good thing for
us."


The only clouds on New Zealand's horizon appear to be the
injuries to batsman Ross Taylor, who sustained a right hamstring
problem while making 85 against Kenya and pace bowler Mark
Gillespie, who has yet to play in the World Cup after a shoulder
problem caused by a viral infection.

