

A woman once known as a "bandit queen" has announced she will
contest state elections in northern India with a promise to help
rehabilitate other criminals.


Thirty-five-year-old Seema Parihar, whose name was synonymous
with terror until she surrendered in 2003, is seeking a seat in
the Uttar Pradesh state assembly as a candidate for the Indian
Justice Party.


The party champions the cause of "Dalits," the lowest strata of
the Hindu social hierarchy, while Parihar said she would also be
addressing demands for better law and order in India's most
populous state where crime is rife.


"If I win, I will start a rehabilitation programme for former
dacoits (bandits)," Parihar also promised ahead of the April 7
polls.


At the time of her surrender, Parihar was linked to 70 murders,
30 robberies and 200 kidnappings. She was charged in 29 cases,
but was acquitted in 15. She still faces charges on 14 cases and
is out on bail.


Her announcement on Wednesday came days after alleged top mafia
don Babloo Srivastava, who is in jail on dozens of charges
ranging from murder to extortion, said he would seek election to
the Uttar Pradesh assembly as an independent candidate.


More than 200 of the 403 members of Uttar Pradesh's assembly have
criminal charges pending, with at least 93 facing charges of
murder or kidnapping.


Parihar, who was kidnapped from the dacoit-infested Etawah
district when she was just 13, said she wanted a clean break from
the past.


"That was the darkest phase of my life and I want to forget those
days for ever," she said of her past. Parihar starred in a
recently released movie "Wounded" about her life that she
described as "an emotional catharsis."


Parihar's story is similar to that of another female bandit-
turned-politician Phoolan Devi -- India's original "Bandit Queen
-- whose life and exploits inspired the 1994 film of the same
name.


Devi, a low-caste women's icon, was a federal MP when she shot
dead outside her official residence in the Indian capital New
Delhi in July 2001.


The mix of crime and politics is not uncommon in national-level
politics.


A 2004 study by an independent watchdog found that nearly one
quarter of the more than 540 representatives in the lower house
of parliament had faced criminal charges, including murder and
rape.


Last month, Indian cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu
was re-elected to parliament after he resigned from his seat
following a December conviction for a 1988 road rage killing.


Last year federal coal minister Shibu Soren was found guilty of
conspiracy in the abduction and murder of a former aide 12 years
ago.

