

Britain sought Thursday to encourage Northern Ireland's
Protestants and Catholics to share power by next week's deadline
with a promise of 50 billion pounds in aid (76 billion euros, 98
billion dollars).


"I want to assure them that the new executive, reconstituted,
will be put on a firm and secure financial footing," Britain's
finance minister Gordon Brown said on Sky News television.


Brown said he would be discussing the aid package in talks
Thursday with the Democratic Unionist Party, the main protestant
party, and Sinn Fein, the main Catholic party in the British-
ruled province.


The aid would help the executive to "make the investment in
infrastructure that they need in Northern Ireland to be able to
finance education and the other services that the UK executive is
responsible for," Brown added.


"I want to offer them a four-year package of funding. We're not
doing that for other government departments but we will do it for
the Northern Ireland executive to get them off to the best
possible start," Brown said.


"I will then offer them capital expenditures for infrastructure
development over a longer period of time and the total package
that we are talking about for Northern Ireland is something in
the order of 50 billion pounds over the next period of time," he
said on Sky News.


"That is something that we can do to help Northern Ireland begin
to improve its economy as well as improve its infrastructure," he
said.


The British and Irish governments are pulling out all the stops
to secure a deal by March 26 to revive power-sharing between
Catholics and Protestants, which was suspended more than four
years ago over an alleged IRA spying row.


They want to restore self-rule in Belfast nearly a decade after
the 1998 Good Friday Agreeement, which ended three decades of
bloody "Troubles" between Catholics and Protestants.


If there is no deal, Britain is threatening to resume direct rule
over the province with the help of the Irish government.


During a meeting Wednesday with Protestant leader Ian Paisley,
head of the Democratic Unionist Party, British Prime Minister
Tony Blair urged Paisley's DUP to agree to a government with the
Catholics of Sinn Fein by the deadline.

