

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Thursday said Israel is ready to
make "big and painful" concessions to advance the peace process
and that a Saudi-inspired Arab plan could be a starting point.


"Israel is ready to make big and painful concessions in order to
encourage" peace negotiations, Olmert said in a speech to members
of the kibbutz movement, a week before an Arab summit in Riyadh.


He said the so-called Saudi initiative for comprehensive Middle
East peace could form a "convenient basis" for future peace
talks.


"The Saudi initiative is interesting and contains many parts I
would be ready to accept ... not all of them," Olmert said.


"It could certainly form a convenient basis for future talks
between us and moderate Arab elements," he said. "I've said it
several times recently and I still believe it."


Olmert was referring to a Saudi peace initiative adopted at an
Arab summit in Beirut in 2002 that offers the Arab world's
normalisation of ties with Israel in exchange for its withdrawal
from all occupied Arab land.


Israel has previously said the Saudi initiative should be
modified, notably on the issue of the right of return of
Palestinian refugees.


Arab League chief Amr Mussa said on Tuesday during a visit to
Amman that the Riyadh summit expects Israel to make a serious
peace offer.


"We expect an offer, a position from Israel in so far as peace is
concerned," the secretary general said. "We fail to see any
offer, any talk about serious peace."


Last week Olmert said the Jewish state "was ready to take
seriously" the Arab peace plan and that the Riyadh summit would
bolster its "positive elements."


But Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni said the plan contained "two
additional clauses very problematic for Israel" concerning the
right of return of Palestinian refugees.


One calls for the return of Palestinians who fled or were forced
out in 1948, the other rules out their permanent settlement in
the Arab states where they or their descendants currently live.


The Palestinians and Egypt have rejected any modifications of the
Saudi plan.

