

A new diplomatic spat was brewing Thursday between Washington and
Rome after the Afghan Taliban freed a kidnapped Italian
journalist in exchange for the release of five militants.


Italian Foreign Minister Massimo d'Alema will speak by telephone
with his US counterpart Condoleezza Rice later in the day after a
US official said Wednesday the swap could invite similar
kidnappings of NATO and Afghan troops battling the Taliban.


D'Alema will seek "clarification after the criticism from an
anonymous source" at the US State Department, a foreign ministry
official told AFP.


War correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo, 52, of the daily La
Repubblica was released in a swap for five Taliban militants on
Monday. He had been held for two weeks by members of the Islamic
movement that was forced from power in late 2001 in a US-led
offensive.


Rome was "surprised" by the criticism, the foreign ministry
official said, recalling a "very positive climate" during a
dinner meeting between D'Alema and Rice in Washington on Monday.


"It's not a new position, but rather the confirmation of a
traditional line that the American authorities have always taken
in hostage situations," another official added.


"Clearly there are different sensitivities. We take note of
legitimate positions and we have no intention to comment," he
said.


The US official speaking on condition of anonymity Wednesday said
the swap increased the risk of similar kidnappings of NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) troops deployed in
Afghanistan as well as their Afghan partners.


"It is US policy to use every appropriate resource to gain the
safe return of hostages, but to make no concessions to
individuals or groups holding those hostages," the official said,
adding that the United States "did not and do not approve of
concessions to terrorists."


"In this case, these concessions caught the US by surprise," she
added, saying Washington had "communicated those concerns" to
Rome through diplomatic channels.


The Italian foreign ministry late Wednesday denied receiving any
such communication.


Britain and The Netherlands, which like Italy and the United
States have troops in Afghanistan, have also criticised the
prisoner release deal.


La Repubblica asked in an editorial on Thursday: "But why didn't
the American administration immediately oppose the idea of
freeing these (Taliban) prisoners? It's not unreasonable to think
that the United States made a choice of realpolitik."


Leading political analyst Sergio Romano told AFP: "The death of
the journalist would have ceen an earthquake within the (centre-
left) coalition" of Prime Minister Romano Prodi.


The issue of reauthorising funding for Italy's 2,000-strong
contingent in Afghanistan -- fiercely opposed by the far left --
briefly brought down the government last month.


La Repubblica's editorial noted that had the episode ended in
tragedy the government would be unable to keep its troops in
Afghanistan.


"For an America already weak on the international stage," keeping
the ISAF coalition together in Afghanistan "trumped everything
else," it said.


A vote on refunding the mission is set in the Senate -- where
Prodi enjoys only a two-seat majority -- next week.


Romano said that with the hostage situation Prodi faced "double
blackmail, that of the Taliban who were threatening to kill the
reporter and that -- much worse -- of its radical left on the eve
of the debate in the Senate."


Italy's defence ministry agreed with the US position, according
to press reports Wednesday.


While Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi warmly thanked the
humanitarian agency Emergency for its efforts in obtaining
Mastrogiacomo's release, Defence Minister Arturo Parisi was
reportedly less sanguine, fearing that a "dangerous precedent"
had been set.


Parisi said that "entrusting the negotiations to (Emergency
founder) Gino Strada was a serious mistake," Corriere della Sera
reported citing an unnamed source close to the minister.


Since Prodi came to power in May last year, US-Italian relations
have suffered several strains including the opening of
proceedings against 26 US intelligence agents for the 2003
kidnapping of an Egyptian imam in Milan and the killing by a US
marine of Italian secret service agent Nicola Calipari.

