

A dormant five-year-old Arab initiative for peace with Israel is
a serious offer and will be the cornerstone of discussions at
next week's Arab summit, Jordan's foreign minister said on
Thursday.


"The Arab initiative represents a constructive Arab position and
a serious peace offer," Abdel Ilah Khatib said, ahead of the
March 28-29 summit to be hosted by Saudi Arabia in Riyadh.


"It merits particular attention and serious action to be
submitted to all parties and for its application," Khatib said, a
day after accompanying Jordan's King Abdullah II to Riyadh for
talks with Saudi King Abdullah.


During their meeting the two monarchs agreed that the summit must
"re-adopt" the initiative, which was first submitted by Saudi
Arabia at an Arab summit in Beirut in 2002, an official said.


The proposal offers normalisation of Arab ties with the Jewish
state in exchange for its pullout from Arab lands and the
establishment of a Palestinian state.


The 2002 Beirut Declaration calls on Israel to withdraw from
"occupied Arab territories, including the Syrian Golan Heights,
to the 4 June 1967 line, and the territories still occupied in
southern Lebanon."


It also calls for a just solution to the problem of the
Palestinian refugees who fled or were driven from their homes
when Israel was founded in 1948.


And it calls for an independent and sovereign "on the Palestinian
territories occupied since 4 June 1967 in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip, with east Jerusalem as its capial."


In return, the Arab states would "consider the Arab-Israeli
conflict over, sign a peace agreement with Israel and achieve
peace for all states in the region."


They would also "establish normal relations with Israel within
the framework of this comprehensive peace."


Earlier this month, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni said the
initiative had some good points, but needed work.


"There are positive elements in the Saudi initiative, but some of
its clauses are contrary to the principle of two states," she
said.


Livni said the initiative contained "two additional clauses very
problematic for Israel" concerning the refugees.


One calls for the return of Palestinians and the other rules out
their permanent settlement in the Arab states where they or their
descendants now live.


For his part, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Israel "was ready
to take seriously" the peace plan and hoped the Arab summit would
bolster its "positive elements."


Meanwhile, Khatib said the Riyadh summit will also focus on the
Palestinian issue and the violence-riddled situation in Iraq, and
he underscored the importance of "reinforcing common Arab action
to deal with all these issues".

