

The European Union accused the United States of giving about 23.7
billion dollars (18 billion euros) in non-repayable aid to
aircraft maker Boeing since 1990, in evidence to a WTO dispute
panel on Thursday.


"Boeing never had to pay back a cent," an EU official, who
declined to be named, told journalists.


This is the first time that the EU has quantified the amount of
disputed US support, executives at European aircraft maker Airbus
said against a background of mutual recriminations over state
aid.


The EU and US have been at loggerheads for years over charges and
counter charges relating to state aid to Boeing in the United
States and Airbus in Europe, and its compatibility with WTO fair-
trading rules.


The EU estimated that the US administration had given Boeing 18.9
billion dollars in the form of aid for research and development
through NASA and US Defense sources, as well as tax relief from
1990 to 2004.


Several US states or cities also provided 4.8 billion dollars,
mainly to build infrastructure for Boeing, according to the EU
submission.


The information emerged from a summary of written complaints by
the European Commission to the World Trade Organisation, fuelling
transatlantic bickering over subsidies or support for the world's
two largest civil aircraft makers.


In 2004, the parties lodged reciprocal complaints at the WTO,
which parallel dispute settlement panels are now examining.


This week, the United States asserted that Britain, France,
Germany and Spain had provided 15 billion dollars to Airbus to
launch new products, according to a 72-page statement to the WTO
panel released here.


The "resulting benefit" to the European aircraft maker "is well
over 100 billion dollars," a US official contended.


"Launch aid has enabled Airbus to launch a series of large
commercial aircraft models at a scale and a pace that would have
been impossible without subsidies," he said.


EU officials dismissed the 100-billion-dollar figure as "a smoke
screen" and argued that state aid to Airbus, unlike the
assistance provided to Boeing, must be reimbursed.


Airbus Senior Vice President Derek Sharples commented: "That's
frankly laughable. They must have gone to Las Vegas and sat in
front of a gambling machine to come up with a figure like that."


The Europeans also argued that Boeing, which builds both civilian
and military aircraft, was able to apply technology it developed
with the help US army subsidies, such as night vision equipment,
to airliners.


"Boeing got it for free. Otherwise they could not have obtained
these technologies without paying a lot of money for it," an EU
official said


"The 787 is the most subsidised aircraft programme ever,"
Sharples added, referring the US maker's next new airliner.


The United States in turn countered that the European Union was
trying to divert attention from its "massive" subsidisation of
Airbus during the WTO's review.


"Although we have not had an opportunity to read the EU
submission, based upon what we know about the EU's case, its
claims in this dispute lack merit," said Gretchen Hamel, a
spokeswoman for the US Trade Representative, on Thursday.


"Some of the US and state programs they challenge are not even
related to civil aircraft. In other cases the programs are for
publicly available research or are available to a broad range of
companies -- including Airbus," she added in a statement.


The WTO is set to issue a preliminary ruling on the US complaint
against Airbus in September. The EU suit targeting Boeing is to
get a hearing in July, with a decision unlikely before February
2008.

