

US veteran Mike Cunning and New Zealand's Mark Brown established
a new course record of six-under-par 66 to lead the first round
of the Motorola International here Thursday.


Ten years after winning Asia's Order of Merit, Cunning showed
glimpses of his best form on the first day of the inaugural
350,000-dollar Asian Tour event at the Ria Bintan Golf Club.


Starting from the 10th, the 48-year-old got off to a flying start
with two birdies before snaring a tap-in eagle on the par-five
16th.


Four more birdies against two bogeys, including a dropped shot at
the last with a three putt, saw him end the day atop the
leaderboard with Brown.


"I've re-dedicated myself to the game. Last year wasn't very fun.
I wasn't concentrating and wasn't enjoying the golf that I was
playing," said Cunning, who has one victory and 27 top-10s on the
Asian Tour.


Brown, a rookie on the Asian Tour, was first to set a new course
mark, bettering the previous record of 68 held by Singapore's
Mardan Mamat.


After a bogey on the sixth hole Brown chipped in for eagle on the
seventh, and then birdied three of his next four holes.


Malaysia's P. Gunasegaran and England's Yasin Ali produced hole-
in-ones en route to a 68 and 69 respectively, while Thai newcomer
Kwanchai Tannin also delivered the fireworks with eight birdies
for a 67 to share third place with Korean duo Ted Oh and Han Lee.


Another Korean, Park Jun-won, American Clay Devers, Australian
Peter Fowler and Chinese Taipei's Lin Keng-chi, Asia's number one
in 1995, were among those lying on 68.


Kwanchai said the recent success of fellows Thais on the Asian
Tour, including Chapchai Nirat's victory in the TCL Classic last
week, had been a boost for aspiring players.


"I've not reached their level yet but it encourages us to work
harder and aim for wins as well," said Kwanchai, who turned
professional last year and is playing in only his fourth Asian
Tour tournament.


Chapchai bounced back from a sluggish outward nine to shoot a 69,
romping home in 32 while Peter Senior of Australia, a winner of
26 international titles, carded a 72.


A one-hour, 10-minute suspension of play in the afternoon meant
that 27 players failed to complete their opening rounds and will
resume play on Friday.

