

After North Korean nuclear talks broke up Thursday with no new
date set for a resumption, following is a timeline of the latest
four-day round of negotiations.


The talks, hosted by China and also involving the two Koreas, the
United States, Japan and Russia, were designed to put flesh on a
landmark February 13 accord under which Pyongyang agreed to
abandon its nuclear weapons programmes in return for vital fuel
aid and diplomatic concessions.


- Monday, March 19:


As nuclear envoys meet in Beijing, US officials say the United
States and North Korea have reached an agreement over the return
of 25 million dollars of Pyongyang assets frozen in a Macau bank
since 2005 amid US charges of money laundering and
counterfeiting. The money can now be released, they say.


- It lends an optimistic atmosphere to the start of proceedings.
US envoy Christopher Hill says the matter has been "resolved" and
North Korea's envoy, Kim Kye-Gwan, reportedly tells the talks
that Pyongyang will close its main Yongbyon reactor as soon as
the money is back in its coffers.


- Tuesday, March 20:


First signs of a hitch emerge with North Korea accusing Japan of
trying to sabotage the talks. China reports "good progress" after
the first day and says Pyongyang is ready to shut down Yongbyon
and accept UN inspectors.


- The North's Kim refuses to attend an afternoon session of talks
until the cash from Macau is transferred, meaning no progress can
be made, although he holds bilateral talks with Hill.


- Wednesday, March 21:


More frustration as the North continues to refuse talks while it
waits for the money to arrive. With envoys hanging around, a
frustrated Hill hits out. "We all have jobs to do. Waiting around
for some forms to be filled out is not usually in our job
descriptions."


- Hill says it is unclear when the talks can resume and is
pessimistic on the chances of making progress on
denuclearisation. The talks, which had been due to wrap up, are
extended for a further day to Thursday.


- Thursday, March 22:


Break-up. After another fruitless morning, the North's envoy Kim
Kye-Gwan boards an Air Koryo flight back to Pyongyang. China is
obliged to suspend the talks and no new date is set for a
resumption. China insists all sides remain committed to the
February 13 accord while Hill says he believes the North will
still shut Yongbyon by an agreed deadline of mid-April.


- The Bank of China says it has not been asked to get involved in
the cash transfer, explaining why the 25 million dollars is still
in limbo. China's top nuclear envoy says the bank has "concerns"
over the deal as well as practical problems hindering the
transaction.

