

Britain's Royal Navy was investigating Thursday how an air-
purification system malfunctioned and killed two sailors on one
of its nuclear submarine during war games in the Arctic with the
US Navy.


The accident, which also injured one crewman, occurred while the
HMS Tireless, a hunter-killer submarine which does not carry
nuclear missiles, was under the ice cap in the Arctic Ocean
during a joint exercise Wednesday.


In Washington, US Navy spokeswoman Lieutenant Li Cohen told AFP
that a self- contained oxygen-generation candle, part of the air
purification system, exploded, causing the accident.


Britain's Ministry of Defence did not immediately comment on the
US account, nor confirm there was an explosion, but said there
was no broader threat posed by the accident.


"The submarine was never in any danger, its nuclear reactor was
unaffected, it quickly surfaced and is completely safe," it said
in a statement.


"At this early stage, it is thought that the accident involved a
piece of air- purification equipment in the forward section of
the submarine.


"The ship's company dealt with the incident quickly and
professionally and, as a result, there is only superficial damage
to the forward compartment.


"It was submerged under the ice cap at the time of the incident.
The crew are trained in surfacing quickly through the ice, and
did so in exemplary fashion."


The MoD said that relatives of the two submariners killed, who
have not yet been named, have been informed, while saying the
injured sailor had been taken to a US military hospital and was
expected to make a full recovery.


US Navy officers added that the injured sailor was airlifted to a
hospital at Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage, Alaska.


The Times newspaper said one was killed in the blast and the
other died from inhaling fumes.


It quoted Royal Navy sources as saying the smoke had been
contained in the area of the explosion and there was no other
damage to equipment.


The Royal Navy and US Navy have been conducting joint exercises
in the Arctic since 1986.


Air purification equipment is fitted to all Trafalgar Class
submarines, of which Tireless is one of seven in the Royal Navy.


Oxygen-generation candles create the gas through a chemical
reaction, and some of the candles burn at high temperatures
during the reaction.


The defence ministry said the equipment had a 100 percent safety
record to date, but as a precaution its use on other submarines
has been restricted until safety checks can be carried out.


HMS Tireless, which is based in Devonport, in Plymouth, southwest
England, was launched in 1984, but the air-purification machinery
was given an update in 2001.


The vessel has had a controversial history, having to dock in the
British overseas territory of Gibraltar in May 2000 after a
coolant leak was discovered in its nuclear reactor. It remained
there for nearly a year, sparking tens of thousands of people to
protest in neighbouring Spain.


An MoD spokesman said that the coolant leak in 2000-2001 was
entirely unrelated to Wednesday's incident, and described the
2001 update to the air-purification machinery as "routine".


Several incidents in recent years have highlighted the dangers
faced by submariners.


In September last year, two submariners died and one was injured
in a fire on board the Russian nuclear submarine the Saint Daniel
of Moscow in the Barents Sea near Norway.


In February 2003, it emerged that an Australian submarine, the
HMAS Dechaineux, was just 20 seconds from sinking to the bottom
of the Indian Ocean with 55 sailors on board, prompting safety
fears.


The biggest submarine catastrophe in recent years was the sinking
of Russia's Kursk in August 2000, also in the Barents Sea, in
which 118 crew died.

