

Al-Qaeda has named a ruthless Islamist commander as its leader in
Mogadishu, the Somali government said Thursday, deepening fears
of a wider insurgency in the war-fatigued African nation.


Deputy Defence Minister Salad Ali Jelle said Al-Qaeda had named
Aden Hashi Ayro as its leader in the Somali capital, where at
least 14 people including six soldiers were killed in clashes
Wednesday. The soldiers were dragged through the streets and
their bodies set alight.


"After Somali terrorists made consultations with Al-Qaeda, Ayro
was named as chief of Al-Qaeda in Mogadishu," Jelle told a press
conference here.


"They (Islamists) are killing people and intellectuals who are
supporting the government," he added.


Although Jelle did not say when and where the consultations took
place, Western intelligence believes that there are numerous Al-
Qaeda operatives hiding with Somali Islamists.


Jelle said Ayro led the insurgents in the recent fighting in
Mogadishu, which has seen a dramatic escalation since January
when Ethiopian-Somali troops drove out an Islamist movement from
much of southern and central Somalia.


"The government is fighting terrorists in Mogadishu. The
government strongholds were attacked by the remnants of the
Islamic courts led by Aden Hashi Ayro," Jelle added.


Officials say Ayro survived US airstrikes in southern Somalia in
January which targeted at least three other extremists blamed for
two terrorism attacks in east Africa in 1998 and 2002.


Early this month, an Islamist website released an audio-taped
message attributed to Ayro, who called on Somalis to attack and
kill Ethiopian troops deployed in Somalia.


Western intelligence sources have warned that Somalia risks
becoming a terrorist haven if efforts to empower the government
fail in the face of fierce opposition from powerful clans.


Some 1,500 Ugandan troops are now in Somalia as part of a
proposed 8,000-strong African Union force aiming to help
government troops regain control and Ethiopian forces to leave.

