

Shanghai Shenhua coach Wilson Giminez has vowed to come back
strongly despite a shock defeat which put a major dent in their
AFC Champions League ambitions.


Giminez's side, already reeling from an opening-day defeat to
Sydney FC, slumped to a 1-0 loss against Indonesia's unheralded
Persik Kediri late on Wednesday, leaving them bottom of Group E
after two matches.


"It was a disappointing situation for us as we had many chances
but failed to capitalise, worsened by the weather and the pitch
condition," said the Uruguayan.


"I understand that this is a tough group to be part of and this
defeat has reduced our chances, but we are going to bounce back
strong," he added.


Persik Kediri coach Daniel Roekito was delighted with the win
against Shanghai, the product of a merger between the city's two
clubs last month.


"Shanghai are a great team and we are thankful for the win,
especially with the pressure that has been mounting due to our
league position," he said.


Kawasaki Frontale were also counting the cost of an indifferent
display against Bangkok University, who battled to their second
draw to remain in contention in Group F.


Coach Takashi Sekizuka said the J-League runners-up would have to
work hard to ensure qualification, blaming a lack of
international experience for the 1-1 draw.


"Perhaps they don't have enough international experience and it
took them a while before they adjusted to the game. We have to
work harder," he said.


"It is important to collect three points at home. But now we've
got only one point today, and that has put us in a situation
where we'll have to keep winning the rest of our matches. We'll
take it one game at a time."


Elsewhere Urawa Red Diamonds top Group E on goal difference after
fighting back from two down to force a 2-2 with newcomers Sydney.


Al Wahda thumped Al Arabi 4-1 in the evening's heaviest defeat to
maintain their 100 percent record at the top of Group A.


In Group C, Uzbekistan's Neftchi made it two out of two with an
away win against Al Karama 1-0 in Syria, while Iranian team
Sepahan opened up a three-point lead in Group D with a late
winner against Saudi team Al Shabab.

