

Who but world's women's tennis legend Martina Navratilova would
have believed hitting a ball could become art hung on a wall?


Yet for the past six years in secret, Navratilova and Slovak
artist Juraj Kralik have been painting canvases produced by
hitting balls, which are going on show Thursday, fittingly at
Roland-Garros, home of the French Open Grand Slam tournament.


"It was top secret, only three or four people knew, we didn't
want anyone to steal the idea," Navratilova told AFP ahead of the
opening of their show, "Art Grand Slam", which closes August 20.


Snatching time between tournaments and matches, the pair in 2000
began the project dreamt up by Kralik in Navratilova's Czech
homeland town Revnice "where I spent my first two years playing
tennis," when aged five to seven.


It was there that the 50-year-old tennis legend, who won 354
titles, first learnt how to hit balls soaked in paint onto a
canvas pasted on a wall, or how to bounce them on a canvas laid
out on the ground.


Over the next years, successively in New York, Australia, Paris
and Wimbledon, they continued to create works inspired by the
game -- the lines of a tennis court and the impact of balls,
"mostly using forehand", she said.


"What I like about it is that here you hit the ball but don't
know exactly what you're doing. It's the unknown, which is not
what you have in sports," she said, hanging on to the leash of
her 10-month dog, a small Japanese Chin anxious for a run.


Navratilova's favourite among the 60-odd works hung at the show
is a large 4.6 x 2.5 metre (15 x 9 foot) canvas called "Way of My
Life" that features two loops formed with multicoloured tennis-
ball impacts that spiral upwards to the top edge of the painting.


"It represents my career, with a small loop and a big loop and at
the end it shows I'm finished," she said. Navratilova, who had a
breathtaking 31-year professional career, retired from
competitive tennis between 1995 and 1999, but returned in 2000
and retired a second time last year.


"It's an introduction into the world of tennis. I hope tennis
players will like it," she said of the show.


Kralik, who grew up in communist Czechoslovakia, says he was
always fascinated by tennis and loved to watch clay courts being
watered, swept and drawn with lines, and then watch the traces of
balls and feet. It was in 1999 at Flushing Meadow in New York
that he decided to try to record as art the pitch of a ball.


"We will place the tennis art alongside the fine arts," he says
in a book.


As for jean-clad Navratilova, what does she do nowadays with her
spare time?


"Travel," she said.


She hopes the tennis-art show will go to the United States and
elsewhere after its debut in Paris, and is also involved with a
book she has written, "Shape Your Self", which she said "is more
about being healthy than losing weight."


But much of her time too is spent promoting a "Rainbow" credit
card before gay and lesbian groups which, when used for
purchases, raises money for a Rainbow Endowment fund set up 10
years ago. It has so far handed out two million dollars in grants
to gay and lesbian groups.

