

Singapore has blocked only 100 pornographic Internet sites but
will not hesitate to take action against seditious or racially
offensive content, a cabinet minister said Thursday.


Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore's Second Minister for Information,
Communications and the Arts, said that while the Internet carried
much that was offensive and untrue, it was only practical and
necessary for authorities to target those who posed "a clear and
present risk" to peace and security.


Two ethnic Chinese men were jailed last year for anti-Muslim
blogs in the multi- racial island nation.


"Race and religion continue to be sensitive and volatile issues
that tug at the visceral feelings of our people," he told the
Foreign Correspondents Association.


In a country where all local broadcasting outlets are government-
owned and newspapers are expected to be "partners" with the
government, many people have turned to websites and blogs for
alternative views of the city-state's political and social
issues.


"Most blogs have a readership of one, the person who wrote it,"
Balakrishnan said.


At the same time, he said, the Internet had given a global
platform to racial and inflammatory views.


Singapore has bitter memories of past racial incidents in its
early years and clamps down hard on anyone inciting communal
tensions.


The city-state was also undergoing liberalisation while retaining
a very strong conservative core, he said.


"In Singapore we only block 100 pornographic sites. No more. No
less," Balakrishnan said.


While there were "probably hundreds of thousands of pornographic
sites in cyberspace," the government only blocked 100 as a
symbolic gesture, he said.


"We call this ceremonial censorship. We are merely drawing a line
in cyberspace to say: 'As a society we frown on this'."


Paris-based Reporters Without Borders, a press freedom group,
last year placed Singapore 140th out of 167 countries in its
World Press Freedom Index for 2005, due to the "complete absence"
of independent media in the city-state.


A Singapore newspaper last July suspended an Internet blogger's
column after the government criticised a satirical article he
wrote about high living costs.


Balakrishnan said Singapore has had to be cautious with the press
because of the linguistic, racial and religious fault lines it
inherited. Singapore was ejected from the Malaysian federation in
1965 over ethnic issues.


"We ask the press to view themselves as partners with us in
nation-building," he said.


But Balakrishnan said he did not want the press to be a
mouthpiece of the government, and it must report government
mistakes.


"The most potent impact of the new media on politics, I believe,
is the fact that in the future politicians will find it
impossible to lie," because somebody, somewhere, knows the facts
and will publish them.


The minister said Singapore had a clean political system and had
nothing to hide. "We are not afraid of the new media," he said.

