

A new clothing line designed by Madonna for Swedish cheap-chic
retailer H&M sold out in minutes after going on sale in
Stockholm on Thursday, with hundreds of shoppers lining up around
the block.


While the collection flew off the racks in a flash, the launch
did not spark the stampede scenes seen in recent years when
designers such as Karl Lagerfeld, Stella McCartney and
Viktor&Rolf launched lines bearing their name for H&M.


This year's collection, dubbed "M by Madonna" and put on sale
around the world on Thursday, included Kimono dresses, skintight
pants, pencil skirts, tight- fitting blouses, as well as
accessories including wide belts, purses and high- heeled shoes.


The one-time Material Girl chose neutral tones -- black, white
and beige -- and luxury materials like silk, fine wool and
cashmere.


"The collection is magnificent. Fantastic. Very trendy. It's very
Madonna," Rosy Doad, a 23-year-old makeup artist who was among
the first inside the H&M store on Hamngatan in central
Stockholm, told AFP.


"The line is very sophisticated, a kind of business casual, for a
very powerful woman, like Madonna. It's very feminine and a
little extravagant," 19-year-old musician Aky Eisenstein said.


Cropped pants sold for 398 kronor (43 euros, 57 dollars), a dress
for 498 kronor (55 euros, 72 dollars) and a blouse for 598 kronor
(64 euros, 86 dollars).


Hennes & Mauritz has frequently called on celebrities to help
sell its clothes in the past.


In 2004, legendary designer Karl Lagerfeld of Chanel was the
first to put his name to a collection for the Swedish chain. He
was followed by British hipster Stella McCartney in 2005, while
Dutch duo Viktor&Rolf were hired for an autumn-winter
collection last year.


Launched around the world on Thursday, a sneak preview of
Madonna's collection was unveiled in Hong Kong on March 10, when
a selection of items went on sale at the opening of the H&M's
first store in China.


Founded in 1947, H&M has 1,345 stores in 24 countries.

