

World oil prices extended gains on Thursday, with New York crude
above 60 dollars per barrel after news of a larger-than-expected
fall in US gasoline stockpiles, traders said.


Gasoline (or petrol) is in focus ahead of the peak-demand driving
season, beginning May 31, when US drivers hit the roads for their
summer vacations.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
gained 72 cents to 61.49 dollars per barrel during electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, added 74 cents to 60.35 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.


"Crude futures were higher (on Thursday), extending gains from
the previous session with support from a larger than expected
draw in gasoline stocks ahead of the summer when demand is at its
highest," said Sucden analyst Michael Davies.


"Gasoline stocks have declined for six weeks in a row,
underpinned by strong demand, refinery glitches and maintenance."


The US Department of Energy (DoE) said Wednesday that American
gasoline inventories sank by 3.4 million barrels to 210.5 million
in the week to March 16. The reading was heavier than market
expectations for a dip of two million barrels.


"We are heading toward the gasoline peak season," said Mitsubishi
Corp energy risk manager Tony Nunan in Tokyo.


"We have one of the steepest falls in gasoline inventories this
year and this is bullish for the market," he said in reference to
the fact that the weekly gasoline drop would support higher oil
prices.


Elsewhere, the DoE revealed Wednesday that US crude inventories
meanwhile rose by four million barrels to 329.3 million last
week. That was higher than analysts' consensus forecasts for a
gain of just one million barrels.


Distillate inventories, which include heating oil and diesel,
dropped by 1.7 million barrels to 118.7 million, which was
slightly more than predicted.


"The US data are continuing to show a sharp tightening dynamic
(in supplies) which suggests scope for upside price potential as
we move into the second quarter," added Barclays Capital analysts
in a note to clients.


Oil prices have steadied this week as an encouraging recovery on
world stock markets has supported investor sentiment.

