

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz is the global development
lender's 10th president, and not the first to come with a
controversial past or to fight running battles with its staff.


Herewith a chronology of the nine previous presidents, all
American:


1. Eugene Meyer (1946). A millionaire Wall Street financier,
Meyer helped to set up the fledgling organization but his six-
month tenure was marred by repeated clashes with executive
directors.


2. John McCloy (1947-1949). McCloy served as president for 27
crucial months during which he strengthened the new bank's
identity and bolstered the executive standing of the president
after the problems encountered by Meyer.


3. Eugene Black (1949-1962). Black was an unwilling nominee after
a successful career in finance. But in his 13 years in charge, he
created the foundations of a World Bank devoted to alleviating
global poverty.


4. George Woods (1963-1968). Another investment banker, Woods
entrenched the emphasis on development, especially in agriculture
and education, and greatly expanded the bank's economics
research.


5. Robert McNamara (1968-1981). As US defense secretary, McNamara
was indelibly linked to the increasingly unpopular war in
Vietnam. As World Bank president, he became a tireless
globetrotter overseeing a vast expansion in aid lending. The bank
of today is largely McNamara's creation.


6. Alden "Tom" Clausen (1981-1986). Clausen took over with the
world economy deep in recession and US president Ronald Reagan
holding the World Bank's work in profound suspicion. An economic
liberal, he encouraged a more free-market approach to the bank's
work with developing nations.


7. Barber Conable (1986-1991). The first World Bank head without
much Wall Street experience, Conable was a career politician who
pushed through painful changes including job cuts to slim the
bank's bloated bureaucracy.


8. Lewis Preston (1991-1995). During a dramatic period in
history, Preston welcomed the nations of the former Soviet Union
into the World Bank and insisted on the need for more quality
lending after years in which the bank was accused of being
indiscriminate in its dealings with some unsavory governments.


9. James Wolfensohn (1995-2005). "The world's banker" according
to the title of one biography, Australian-born Wolfensohn
campaigned against poverty with a fervor and broke new ground
against corruption and for debt relief, two signature issues
eagerly pursued by Wolfowitz during his stormy tenure.

