

North Korea promised Friday to start scrapping its nuclear
programme once it can confirm that a long-running dispute over
millions of dollars in frozen assets has been resolved.


The North's foreign ministry, in a statement carried by official
media, said it would "confirm soon" whether its funds in a Macau
bank have been unfrozen as the United States has said.


South Korea's Yonhap news agency said North Korean officials have
already arrived in the southern Chinese city.


The announcement raised hopes of progress in implementing a
February 13 six- nation denuclearisation agreement, one day
before a deadline for the first steps -- the shutdown of the
Yongbyon reactor.


North Korea had refused to move till it got its money back.


The statement, carried by the Korean Central News Agency, said
the ministry had noted the announcement by the US Treasury and
Macau authorities that the funds in Banco Delta Asia have been
freed.


"A DPRK (North Korea) financial institution concerned will
confirm soon whether the measure is valid," it said without
elaborating.


"The DPRK remains unchanged in its will to implement the February
13 agreement and will also move when the lifting of the sanction
is proved to be a reality."


It was Pyongyang's first official response to US announcements
this week that some 25 million dollars in the Macau bank, frozen
since 2005 on suspicion of illegality, was available for
collection.


"North Koreans say they have come here to collect the money. They
complained the withdrawal was being delayed," Yonhap quoted a
source in Macau as saying.


The source said Macau financial authorities will soon approve
proxies needed to withdraw money from North Korean accounts held
under aliases, or in the names of people who have since died.


US and South Korean officials acknowledge that Saturday's
deadline for the reactor shutdown cannot be met. But the United
States wants the North at least to make a start by inviting in UN
atomic inspectors.


Officials say the reclusive communist state, which tested its
first atomic bomb last October, has stockpiled enough plutonium
from the reactor for another six to 12 weapons and they want to
cut off the supply.


"Even if the situation can turn for the better, it is difficult
to expect that the first-stage steps can be taken by (Saturday),"
South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon told reporters.


Song said that as long as all sides remain committed, "it's
important not to be bound to the date but to carry out the agreed
steps in a stable way."


The US State Department Thursday also said the deadline may be
extended.


It said the five parties negotiating with North Korea -- China,
Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States -- would discuss
the state of play over the weekend.


US chief nuclear envoy Christopher Hill left Seoul Friday for
more consultations in Beijing. He has said he is willing to meet
his North Korean counterpart Kim Kye-Gwan there if Kim requests
it.


The North Koreans reportedly told visiting New Mexico governor
Bill Richardson this week that they would invite back inspectors
from the International Atomic Energy Agency within a day after
receiving their funds.


The North expelled the inspectors when the latest crisis over its
nuclear ambitions began in 2002.

