

Herewith the text of a statement released by the World Bank's 24
executive directors early Friday, following an investigation into
pay hikes and promotions given to Shaha Riza, the girlfriend of
bank president Paul Wolfowitz:


"The Executive Directors of the World Bank Group at a meeting on
April 6 formed an ad hoc group to investigate the facts
concerning a contract for a staff member closely associated with
the President. The Executive Directors met today, April 12, to
review the report and the documents obtained by the ad hoc group.
The Executive Directors welcomed the report, which they are
disclosing publicly immediately together with the associated
documents reviewed by the ad hoc group.


"The Executive Directors recalled that, in negotiations between
the President and the Board concerning his employment contract,
he revealed a conflict of interest involving a staff member.


"At the request of the Executive Directors, the President sought
guidance from the Ethics Committee. The guidance given on an
informal basis was that the employee should be re-located to a
position beyond potential supervising influence by the President
or assigned to external service and compensated for the potential
disruption to her career by an in situ promotion as consistent
with the practice of the Bank, and that the President, with the
General Counsel, should communicate this advice to the Vice
President, Middle East and North Africa, and the Vice President,
Human Resources, so as to implement it with immediate effect.


"The President then sent the Vice President, Human Resources, a
written memorandum directing him to reach an agreement with the
staff member and specifying in detail the terms and conditions.


"The Executive Directors noted that the group found that the
Ethics Committee, including its Chairman, had not been involved
in the discussions with the concerned staff member. Neither did
it find that the terms and conditions of the agreement had been
commented on, reviewed or approved by the Ethics Committee, its
Chairman or the Board.


"The Executive Directors will move expeditiously to reach a
conclusion on possible actions to take. In their consideration of
the matter the Executive Directors will focus on all relevant
governance implications for the Bank."

