

An Iranian businessman awarded damages after what he called a US
sting operation 15 years ago said on Friday the American embassy
compound in Tehran has been effectively seized to pay his
compensation.


In the first such lawsuit by an Iranian against Washington,
Cyprus-based Hossein Alikhani was awarded 550 million dollars
(406 million euros) by a Tehran court in 2003 for what he says
was a 130-day ordeal after he was kidnapped by US agents.


He said the lengthy legal process resulted in the Tehran court
blocking any sale or purchase of the embassy land because of its
pending auction.


"The property has been blocked in my name as the court has
decided to auction the property and hand over the proceeds to
me," Alikhani told AFP.


"The court will now appoint someone to evaluate the property and
advertise the sale for auction, which should all happen by the
end of next month."


Despite Iran and the United States having no diplomatic
relations, Washington says Tehran is duty-bound to respect and
protect embassy premises.


A US state department spokeswoman quoted by British newspaper The
Times in its online edition on Friday said it had not been
informed of the new development.


"We expect the government of Iran to... ensure that the reported
threatened sale of the mission premises does not take place," she
told the daily.


Alikhani said he expects to return to Iran in May for the
auction.


"I have the documents and by the end of May it will be sold.
People are interested in buying it because it's prime property,"
he said.


Alikhani expects to make as much as 200 million dollars (148
million euros) from the sale, much less than the 550 million
awarded him by the Tehran court.


The site of the hostage crisis of 1979-1981, the embassy is now
run by Iran's Revolutionary Guards who use it for training and as
a museum of US "crimes."


The complex is a stark reminder of the antagonism that has
underpinned US-Iran ties since militant students seized it after
the 1979 Islamic revolution and held 52 American diplomats
hostage for 444 days.


Alikhani, a 62-year-old father of three, said his own hostage
ordeal left life- long scars.


He said it began in 1992 when undercover US customs agents lured
him to the Bahamas after he was suspected of breaking US
sanctions against Libya.


Alikhani said his abduction came after he faxed a Florida firm
about gas generator spare parts he planned to ship to a state-
owned oil field in Libya.


The company rejected the request, saying it violated US
sanctions, and tipped off US customs.


For 30 days, Alikhani said, he was interrogated in Florida hotels
while chained to beds. He then spent another 100 days in a US
jail.


Awarding him the money, the Tehran court accused US agents of
"kidnapping, false imprisonment, abuse and inflicting physical
and psychological injuries."

