

The European Union said Friday it "regretted" Singapore's
decision to bar seven members of the European Parliament from
speaking at a forum organised by an opposition party.


The seven MEPs, along with a member of the Cambodian national
assembly and a Filipino lawmaker, were to have spoken Friday
night at the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) forum.


But their applications were rejected by the Singapore government,
which said the visit was not in the public interest.


The EU said the visit of the MEPs, who arrived Thursday night,
was to foster greater cooperation between parliamentarians and
democratic parties in Asia and Europe.


"However, the fact that these members of the European Parliament
are now not allowed to speak at a public meeting organised by
another legally recognised political party of Singapore is
regretted by the European Union," said Ambassador Holger
Standertskjold, head of the European Commission's delegation to
Singapore.


The SDP said the forum would go ahead as scheduled despite the
government's decision.


Singapore's Ministry of Home Affairs said the SDP had applied to
the police for a licence to hold the public forum, and had asked
the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) for professional
visit passes for "several foreigners" invited to speak at the
event.


"The police and ICA respectively have rejected the SDP's
applications for a permit to conduct this public forum and for
professional visit passes for the foreign speakers on the grounds
of public interest," the ministry said in a statement.


"Singapore's politics are reserved for Singaporeans. As visitors
to our country, foreigners should not abuse their privilege by
interfering in our domestic politics."


The Ministry of Home Affairs said the SDP was free to organise
public meetings "provided they do so lawfully."


Since independence in 1965, Singapore has grown from a third-
world country to an Asian economic powerhouse.


But critics say this has come at a price, in the form of
restrictions on freedom of speech and political activity.


Public protests of five or more people in Singapore require a
police permit, but indoor events with Singaporean speakers are
allowed.

