

The price of Brent North Sea crude hit a seven-month high of
69.59 dollars a barrel Friday on concerns that current oil
supplies may be insufficient to meet demand, traders said.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery later stood at 69.21
dollars per barrel in London electronic trading, up 49 cents from
Thursday. The contract expires at the close.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 10 cents to 63.95 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.
Earlier Friday it went as high as 64.58 dollars.


"Oil futures were higher today (Friday) with Brent crude trading
well above 69 dollars per barrel ... on the back of concerns over
refinery glitches in the US," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said
in London.


"Market participants are worried about falling US gasoline
supplies as a result of recent refinery outrages ahead of the
summer driving season," he added.


Inventories of US gasoline plunged by 5.5 million barrels to
199.7 million in the week to April 6, the US Department of Energy
reported on Wednesday. Analysts had forecast a lighter drop of
1.4 million barrels.


Gasoline stockpiles are a crucial focus for the market ahead of
the so-called US driving season that starts next month and sees
many Americans take to their cars for their holidays.


"People are looking at the strong demand for gasoline in the US,"
said Tetsu Emori, chief commodities strategist at Mitsui Bussan
Futures in Tokyo.


Emori added that gasoline demand in the US market was 1.9 percent
higher than a year ago.


"The gasoline inventories drawdown is too fast and much higher
than last year," he noted.


Meanwhile on Thursday, the International Energy Agency warned
that the OPEC oil producers' group might have cut its production
too much, with insufficient current output eroding world stock
levels.


The 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
decided to cut its production twice at the end of last year to
help support prices that were falling at the time.


Crude futures were ending the week strongly after slumping on
Monday.


The New York contract had dived 2.77 dollars and Brent shed 1.28
dollars on Monday, as investors banked profits in light Easter
trade.


However, they began rebounding Tuesday as key crude producer Iran
again tested Western nerves.


Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of crude, on Tuesday
pledged to further expand its nuclear drive after announcing that
its activities had entered an industrial phase, sparking new
criticism from the West and renewed calls for negotiation.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appears in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran may disrupt its oil exports should
it be hit harder.

