

Finland's Kimi Raikkonen spearheaded an ominous Ferrari fightback
in the opening practice session Friday for Sunday's Bahrain Grand
Prix near Manama.


Raikkonen finished over half-a-second ahead of his team-mate
Felipe Massa as their McLaren rival and early championship leader
Fernando Alonso endured a ragged session in the desert.


Spaniard Alonso, who had admitted he fears the Ferrari's pace
despite his victory in Malaysia last Sunday, overshot the track
at turn nine on his first proper run with the session an hour
old.


The double world drivers' champion, 25, then skirted along the
kerbs after drifting wide at turn 10 on his next lap before
finishing the session with the fourth fastest time, almost one
second off the pace set by Raikkonen.


Alonso's rookie team-mate, Briton Lewis Hamilton drifted wide on
the final turn, on this, one of the few circuits he actually has
experience of from the GP2 series which he claimed last year.


The young British driver still finished third quickest just
fractions of-a-second ahead of Alonso, although he faces a tough
task if he is to make it three podiums in succession should
Ferrari maintain their pace over the weekend.


Raikkonen made the most of having a new engine at his disposal,
after being forced to compromise on his power in the heat of
Kuala Lumpur, he finished over half-a-second ahead of Brazilian
team-mate Massa with a best time of one minute 33.162seconds.


Toyota's Jarno Trulli of Italy finished fifth fastest while BMW's
German driver Nick Heidfeld was sixth


The Bahrain International Circuit had been hit by a downpour
Thursday evening but had quickly dried out with the cars rolling
out of the garage with track temperatures of over 42 degrees
Celsius.


It became hotter during the opening 90-minute session with many
of the drivers like the McLaren's struggling in the dusty, desert
conditions.


Renault's Finnish rookie Heikki Kovalainen, like Hamilton,
drifted wide at the last corner while Spyker's Adrian Sutil and
Williams driver Nico Rosberg, who set the fastest lap on his race
debut in Bahrain last year, were caught out at the end of the
home straight though all managed to continue.


Rosberg's team-mate Austrian Alex Wurz somehow managed to keep
his Toyota- powered car on track after he became another to be
sent sliding by the kerbs at turn seven.

