

Senior South African Catholic clerics visiting Zimbabwe have
condemned regional leaders for failing to curb President Robert
Mugabe's violent crackdown on political opposition.


Archbishop Buti Tlagale of Johannesburg and Bishop Kevin Dowling
of Rustenburg, said leaders of the 14-nation Southern African
Development Community (SADC) were lending tacit approval to
Mugabe's tactics.


"The church is challenging SADC leaders because they are silent
and letting this oppression go on," Bishop Dowling said during a
prayer service in Bulawayo, second city in the country, late
Thursday.


"Our political leaders by their silence are cooperating in the
oppression of Zimbabweans and we are going to tell this," he
said.


The two bishops, who were hosted by Bulawayo Archbishop Pius
Ncube -- an outspoken critic of Mugabe -- compared the current
situation in Zimbabwe to that of South Africa under apartheid.


"Apartheid did what the current regime is doing to Zimbabweans.
Listening to your stories has helped us remember and realise that
the oppression here and the oppression we endured is very
similar," Dowling said.


Archbishop Tlagale said churches in Zimbabwe and the region had a
duty to work for social change by mounting visible and sustained
campaigns "until evil dissipates."


The service was marked by police interference, with some
Zimbabwean pastors scheduled to address the service prevented
from talking.


Pastor Raymond Motsi of the Christian Alliance, a group of
clerics coordinating the Save Zimbabwe Campaign, was picked up by
police and questioned before being released an hour later.


While Western nations have sharply condemned Mugabe since
opposition leaders were arrested and assaulted ahead of a planned
anti-government rally earlier last month, SADC countries have
been noticeably more muted in their response.


SADC chief Tomaz Salomao, who is currently in Harare to assess
the economic situation, was quoted by the state-controlled Herald
newspaper on Friday urging Zimbabwe's neighbours to focus on
practical solutions to the country's problems.


"I think it's time to talk less and do the work," Salomao said.


"What's good for Zimbabwe is good for the region. What's bad for
Zimbabwe is bad for the region", he added.


Salomao met President Robert Mugabe and was expected to hold
further meetings with Finance Minister Samuel Mumbengegwi and
central bank chief Gideon Gono.


His visit follows an extraordinary summit in Tanzania last month
where South African President Thabo Mbeki was appointed to
facilitate talks between Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF party and the
main opposition Movement for Democratic Change.


SADC has blamed Zimbabwe's economic woes on targetted sanctions
imposed on Mugabe and members of his inner circle by the United
States and the European Union.

