

Hong Kong share prices are likely to trade flat next week on
uncertainy over interest rate movement and slowing economic
growth in the United States, dealers said Friday.


They said investors will closely monitor upcoming US data
releases before taking any positions after minutes from the
Federal Reserve's recent meeting indicated the central bank was
not ruling out a rate hike to curb inflation.


"Most investors would go on US-data watching next week. If US
inflation, for instance, edges higher than expected, it would
certainly create fears and drag down the local index," said
Castor Pang, strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial.


"And if US housing data falls significantly, this could create
fresh worries on the extent of problems plaguing the US housing
market," he said.


US producer prices data for March will be released later Friday
while consumer inflation figures will be out on Tuesday. US
retail sales and new residential construction data for March are
also due to be released next week.


The benchmark Hang Seng Index ended the week at 20,340.97, up
131.26 points or 0.65 percent from the week before.


Howard Gorges, vice chairman at South China Securities, said the
market will be largely led by news coming from the US.


"The local market still tracks Wall Street more closely than the
mainland bourses, and the (benchmark) index will move according
to the Dow Jones Industrial's movement, as well as any other
significant news such as crude oil prices," he said.


"The (local) market has been behaving very well and I don't
expect to see any big movement unless there is any major news on
Wall Street and elsewhere next week," he said.


Pang said the market could also be weighed down by worries over a
possible correction on the mainland's A-share markets after
recent record levels.


"China's stock markets went crazy to some extent as the A-share
index persistently touched new highs, and this has created
expectations of a correction or consolidation," he added.

