

Brussels Airport was officially closed on Friday following a
wildcat strike by fire fighters and security officers, an airport
spokesman said.


The action began at 6:00 am (0400 GMT) and immediately created
chaos with none but the smallest planes able to leave the Belgian
capital's airport and incoming flights diverted to other airports
in Belgium, France and the  Netherlands.


There were hopes that the dispute could be resolved in the
afternoon, but the airport remained closed until at least 3:00 pm
(1300 GMT).


"There has been an agreement between the management of the
airport and the unions," spokesman Jan Van der Cruysse told AFP.


"The unions are discussing it with airport staff now," he added.


He said he had no idea what was on the table or the original
reason for the strike.


The decision to shut down the airport formally was made for
security reasons although there had only been a few flights,
mainly by small aircraft, since the action began.


"We made some special exceptions. For instance a plane carrying
one person in need of urgent medical attention was allowed to
land," said Van der Cruysse.


"Most flights have been cancelled and those due to arrive in
Brussels have been re-routed to other Belgian, French or Dutch
airports, according to the airlines," he said.


Thousands of passengers were inconvenienced and there were scenes
of confusion and anger at the airport, and elsewhere.


"It was an unwelcome surprise," Peter Power, a spokesman for EU
Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson told AFP as he was forced to
take the train from Amsterdam to Brussels upon his return from
global trade talks in India.


One striker at the airport said the dispute was due to a
breakdown of relationship with management due to the amount of
pressure the striking staff, including explosive detection and
passenger control personnel whose action was backed by the
airport firefighters.


Brussels Airport advised passengers to contact airlines for
details of flight changes and cancellations.

