

Singapore has rejected an application for several members of the
European Parliament to speak at an opposition party forum in the
tightly run city-state, the party said Friday.


The government warned foreigners not to meddle in its domestic
affairs after the lawmakers were invited to address the meeting
called in protest at controversial pay-rises for top officials,
including the prime minister.


Chee Soon Juan, secretary-general of the Singapore Democratic
Party (SDP), told AFP six European MPs, plus a Cambodian and
Filipino lawmaker, would not be able to address the forum
scheduled for Friday night.


"They're not going to speak," said Chee, one of a few in
Singapore to have spoken out against the People's Action Party
(PAP) which has ruled since 1959.


He said the event would go ahead without the foreign speakers.


"It is with great dismay that the Singapore Democrats have learnt
that the police and the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority
(ICA) have rejected our applications for Asian and European
Members of Parliament to speak at a public forum this evening,"
said a notice on the party's website.


Singapore's Ministry of Home Affairs said the SDP had applied to
police for a licence to hold the public forum, and had asked the
ICA for professional visit passes "for several foreigners"
invited to speak at the event.


"The police and ICA respectively have rejected the SDP's
applications for a permit to conduct this public forum and for
professional visit passes for the foreign speakers on the ground
of public interest," the ministry said in a statement.


"Singapore's politics are reserved for Singaporeans. As visitors
to our country, foreigners should not abuse their privilege by
interfering in our domestic politics."


Lavinia Waterhouse, the European Commission's press officer in
Singapore,  told AFP the commission had not been officially
informed that the parliamentarians cannot speak.


"We are trying to get clarification from the Singapore
government," she said.


The delegation was to meet local parliamentarians Friday
afternoon.


"I imagine they will be discussing this with them," Waterhouse
said.


The delegation arrived Thursday night on "an alliance-building
trip" and was to return to Europe Friday night, Waterhouse said.


They belong to the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe
(ALDE) and the Council of Asian Liberal and Democrats (CALD), she
said.


On its website, SDP said the forum, set to begin at 1100 GMT, is
to "register your disgust" at pay hikes for Prime Minister Lee
Hsien Loong, cabinet ministers and civil servants.


The pay rises have sparked rare public fury in the conservative
city-state where the government has acknowledged a widening
income gap.


Lee's salary is to rise from 1.62 million US dollars last year to
more than two million US dollars but he said he would donate the
increase to "suitable good causes."


Public protests of five or more people in Singapore require a
police permit but indoor events with Singaporean speakers are
allowed.


Chee, a neuropsychologist, has had numerous battles with
authorities.


He currently faces charges for speaking in public without a
permit.


In September he engaged in a three-day standoff with police who
stopped him from marching to annual meetings of the World Bank
and International Monetary Fund.


The Ministry of Home Affairs said Chee's party is free to
organise public meetings "provided they do so lawfully."


Since independence in 1965, Singapore has grown from a third-
world country to an Asian economic powerhouse.


But critics say this has come at a price, in the form of
restrictions on freedom of speech and political activity.

