

Benoit Nabreda, a 32-year-old wine-seller in eastern Paris, is
trying to export 450 bottles of Languedoc reds and whites to a
restaurant in Kuala Lumpur. Problem: the man at the customs
office has gone on his Easter break.


"The sale's only worth 2,500 euros (3,300 dollars), but I need an
official document before I can put it in the container. The
customs man told me to come to see him, but when I got there he'd
gone away, and I was sent to another building," says Nabreda.


"Now I have to go to the second building, and then back to the
first, and I still don't know if I'll get the document. What's
annoying is that there were four other people in his office --
but he was the only one who knew my situation."


By the end of the process, acquiring a simple form -- available
in other countries over the Internet -- will have cost Nabreda
more than half a day's work, time he can ill afford as he is too
nervous of the risks of employing an assistant and the shop is
shut in his absence.


The headaches of running a small business in France are legion.


To a slow-moving bureaucracy can be added the oppressive weight
of social security charges, a labour code as thick as the bible,
and a climate of opinion that too often equates the word
"patron," the French for boss, with an evil oppressor.


A typical French pay-slip for example contains between 30 and 40
deductions, for a bewildering array of social insurance charges
accumulated over the years. For every 100 euros paid in salary, a
business pays an extra 45 to the state while the employee
surrenders 20.


For many entrepreneurs, taking on new staff is prohibitively
risky not just because of the cost but also because of the
difficulty of shedding workers when times go bad. A mistake in
the complex dismissal procedure can lead to an employment
tribunal and a heavy fine.


Above all there is the constant feeling that the system works
against them.


"When a young person starts a business, within days he gets
letters from the pensions and social insurance people. He is
filling out forms and paying money even before he's started his
activity. It is a total disincentive," says Jean- Eudes du
Mesnil, secretary-general of the Confederation of Small and
Medium Businesses (CGPME).


"The biggest problem is culture. Here in France people aren't
taught about how business works. In schools the subject isn't
mentioned till the last year, and in teacher-training colleges
there is no obligation to learn about the real economy," he says.


Nonetheless -- with a week till presidential elections -- there
is hope that 2007 may go down as the year attitudes changed
towards small businesses.


All the main candidates, including socialist Segolene Royal, have
acknowledged their role in creating wealth and jobs, and all have
promised action to improve their lot.


"Small and medium businesses are now the subject of consensus in
the campaign," said Le Monde newspaper. "The candidates may
propose different ideas, but all underline the importance of
their vitality in the country's economic fabric."


Rightwing favourite Nicolas Sarkozy, 52, has proposed exonerating
overtime hours from social charges. He also wants to remove the
so-called "social thresholds" which mean for example that a
company moving from 49 to 50 employees is suddenly hit by 34 new
administrative and financial obligations.


Centrist Francois Bayrou, 55, says small businesses that take on
two new employees should be exempt from social charges, and he
also supports a Small Business Act that would make it easier for
companies to bid for public sector contracts.


Royal, 53, failed to respond to the CPGME's invitation to discuss
policy. According to du Mesnil, "she is a typical member of the
administrative elite who understands how the big French
corporations work, but nothing of the man in the corner shop."


Nonetheless Royal too has expressed support for a Small Business
Act as well as a "first chance" contract for young people, with
the cost shared by the state. These ideas are backed by
employers, though they recoil at her insistence on
"consolidating" the reduced 35-hour working week.


"There's got to be a total change of mentality," says du Mesnil.
"A country that encourages people not to work is a country that
is walking on its head."


As for Nabreda, he is in no doubt which way to vote.


"I would love to employ an assistant, but I can't. I would love
to escape the bureaucratic nightmare, but I can't. I am going to
vote for the man who knows what I am talking about -- and that's
Nicolas Sarkozy. Let me assure you, I am not one of the
undecided," he says.

