

In the single room shack in Casablanca that has been her home for
27 years, Rachida Raydi laments the loss of two of her seven
children, who both ended their lives as suicide bombers.


Ayoub Raydi was one of three militants who blew themselves up on
Tuesday in the Moroccan port city, less than a month after his
brother, Abdelfettah, killed himself and injured four when he
blew up an Internet cafe.


"I hadn't seen Ayoub for 10 months and Abdelfettah for nine
months. I'm against terrorism," their 46-year-old mother said.


Rachida, who was abandoned by her husband and now sells clothes
to survive, lives in one room that serves as a bedroom, dining
room, kitchen and even toilet. It is lit by a single light bulb.


"If Ayoub would have continued to live with me, I would have kept
him from committing the irreparable," she said.


The attacks earlier this week saw three militants blow themselves
up as they were being chased by police, killing one police
inspector and injuring seven others.


On March 11, Abdelfettah Raydi blew himself up, injuring four
others, including a suspected accomplice, in one of the city's
Internet cafes.


Moroccan officials have said they do not believe the two
incidents are linked to Wednesday's two suicide bombings in the
Algerian capital Algiers, which killed at least 33 people.


In the shanty town where the Casablanca bombers' families live,
few are willing to talk to reporters and most insist they have no
links to the attacks.


"I've got nothing to do with the person who blew himself up, I
know nothing, I don't have a mad son," shouted Wardia Mentala
from behind her door.


But her neighbours confirmed she was the mother of Mohamed, who
was shot dead by police on Tuesday before he could blow himself
up. They said she has been questioned by police several times.


A bit further along Douar Skouila, the shanty town that is home
to 2,300 families, the relatives of Mohamed Rachidi are no more
forthcoming.


"Keep your condolences to yourself and leave if you want to stay
alive," shouted the sister of the first suicide bomber to explode
himself on Tuesday.


Mohamed, 37, was also implicated in the murder of a policeman in
Casablanca in 2003.


Many of the area's residents say they have had enough of the
suspicions that have surrounded them since local youths carried
out suicide attacks across Casablanca in May 2003, killing 45
people including the 12 bombers.


"Our life is already precarious and it infuriates me to hear that
our neighbourhood is a nest of terrorists," said 24-year-old
Mohamed Harchi.


He is working, but noted that having the shanty town's address on
their identity cards left residents with little chance of finding
work.


The falling rain gives the area an even more sinister air. The
alleys are muddy, the sewers discharge black, foul-smelling
water, and the children wade through it apparently regardless.


"It's drugs that force these young people to act, not religion,"
commented Rachid, 28. "They are desperate people who take
psychotropic drugs."


But Ahmed Mouchid, a 40-year-old maths teacher, does not share
that view. "It's true we have here a reservoir of terrorists, but
the causes lie in the lack of prospects, the idleness that is
killing these young people," he said.

