

The World Bank early Friday released more than 100 pages of
documents that exposed the pivotal role played by its president,
Paul Wolfowitz, in awarding startling pay hikes to his
girlfriend.


They included an August 2005 memorandum from Wolfowitz that
ordered the bank's human resources division to award his Libyan-
born partner, Shaha Riza, pay increases that took her bank salary
to nearly 200,000 dollars.


Wolfowitz directed that Riza, who was being moved from the World
Bank's Middle East communications office to the US State
Department, should move to an even higher pay grade if "I stay on
to serve a second term."


He concluded the memo by expressing his "deep unhappiness" that
the bank's ethics committee had rejected his preferred resolution
to the situation, to recuse himself from all personnel decisions
involving Riza.


Riza's secondment to State was ordered by the World Bank's board,
over her own and Wolfowitz's objections, to forestall any
conflicts of interest after Wolfowitz took charge of the powerful
organization in June 2005.


World Bank staff rules forbid an employee from working under
another's supervision if the two are in a relationship.


The apparent favoritism shown towards Riza has sparked uproar
among bank staff, who called Thursday for his resignation.


The board of executive directors said early Friday after an
investigation that, contrary to claims by Wolfowitz's office, the
generous pay raises and rapid promotions given to Riza were not
cleared by the ethics committee or the board.


A letter dated April 9 from Riza to the Dutch World Bank
representative leading the investigation, Herman Wijffels, was
also published.


In it, she complained that she had been the subject of "the most
vicious public attacks" and was being "victimized" for abiding by
a reassignment that she herself had opposed.


She expressed hope that the investigating committee would "take
into consideration the personal pain and stress that my son and I
have been subjected to and the damage that this whole episode has
caused me professionally, physically and psychologically."


Wolfowitz's request for recusal was turned down by the ethics
committee, which noted that he and Riza could still come into
professional contact during their work at the World Bank.


The documents showed also that the ethics committee gave only
"informal" guidance that Riza should be reassigned and
compensated for the potential disruption to her career through a
promotion.


They revealed that the details, including the abnormally high pay
hikes and more than one promotion, came at Wolfowitz's personal
behest.

