

Jocelyne Khoweiry was 20 years old when she first carried arms
during the 1975-1990 civil war. Now 51, she is working forcefully
for peace.


"In 1975 I was ready to die for my country. Today I want to live
for its sake," Khoweiry told AFP on the 32nd anniversary of the
outbreak of the 15-year civil war that killed more than 150,000
people.


Khoweiry, in a rare interview, said she wanted to "relay a
message of peace" at a time when many people fear that deeply
divided Lebanon may plunge back into the devastating violence and
chaos of civil war.


"I tell the young Lebanese of today war is not a game," said
Khoweiry, founder and director of the Pope John Paul II Centre
which provides social, psychological and medical assistance for
those in need.


"When violence breaks out it becomes deaf. Nothing stops it."


Khoweiry, still youthful despite years of wars and hardship that
have turned her hair white, does not regret her active
participation in the civil war as a member of the Phalangist
(Kataeb) Christian party's militia.


"We (Christians) were forced to make war. And it was not easy,
especially for women," she said.


"Like all the young people of my generation, I had enthusiasm and
ideals. I wanted to defend my country against the Palestinian
armed presence in Lebanon.


"I only regret that the war broke out in our country," Khoweiry
said, adding: "It is better to defend one's nation without
resorting to arms."


The annual April 13 anniversary is always a time of reflection
for her.


"I feel sad because I remember the young people who fell in
combat and those who became disabled. I do not want this to be
repeated."


Khoweiry, one of the first Lebanese women to bear arms during the
civil war, has now sought refuge in Christianity.


"After carrying arms, I thought repeatedly about becoming a nun.
When you see so much violence and drama, you start asking
questions about men, death and God."


In 2000 she founded the Pope John Paul II Centre in Ghadir, a
mountainous village in the Christian heartland northeast of
Beirut, with the help of other "sisters in arms" who discarded
their guns to become "messengers of hope and peace."


Khoweiry said the late Pope John Paul II -- whom she met three
times -- encouraged her to pursue a path of peace, which has
allowed her to meet many of the people she fought against during
the war.


Some communist militants, who fought alongside the Palestinians
in Lebanon against the Christian militias, have even become her
friends.


Sitting in her office amid piles of books on theology, politics
and economics, Khoweiry opens an old album to show pictures of
herself in combat gear.


"I was so wild," she recalled, laughing at one photograph in
which her hair was still long, brown and curly and in which she
was about to fire an assault rifle.


Khoweiry earned a master's degree in theology with a paper on the
personality and the cult of the Virgin Mary. Now she is writing a
doctorate on the role of the Virgin Mary in politics.


"The subject may be strange, but it is really interesting," she
said.


The former militant insists that her military and spiritual
endeavours have much in common.


"Military combat is also an ascetic, mystical experience: one
sacrifices oneself in wars -- just like in religion," she said.

