

Asian stocks closed mostly lower Friday with investors
consolidating ahead of the G7 finance ministers meeting in
Washington later in the day, and a slew of US economic data out
due next week.


Investors had been holding out for CPI figures amid signs the US
Federal Reserve was still prepared to hike interest rates to curb
inflation resulting in a mixed performance in recent trading
days.


That mood was expected to continue with inflation figures not due
out of the US until next Tuesday while retail sales and
residential construction figures would also provide further
insights into the state of the US economy.


This coupled with anxiety over the G7 meeting in Washington,
where Asian currencies and the cost of exports are expected to be
discussed, weighed on sentiment and profit-taking persisted
throughout the day.


As a result Tokyo was down 1.01 percent, Seoul shed 0.32 percent,
Sydney fell 0.37 percent, Taipei was 0.90 percent lower and
Manila shed 0.19 percent.


Shanghai ended nine days of record gains and eased 0.36 percent
as Hong Kong fell 0.19 percent.


Wellington, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur closed little changed
while Jakarta bucked the trend and rose 0.56 percent to a record
high and Mumbai surged 2.06 percent, both gaining on strong
corporate earnings.


Bangkok was closed for a public holiday.


TOKYO: Share prices skidded lower as investors waited nervously
to see whether world finance ministers would discuss the weakness
of the yen at a weekend meeting.


Dealers said that the market had failed to draw support from
gains seen overnight on Wall Street, with the upcoming Group of
Seven meeting and the US and domestic corporate earnings seasons
keeping a lid on sentiment.


The Nikkei-225 index fell 176.47 points or 1.01 percent to
17,363.95 on volume of 2.03 billion shares up from 1.81 billion
on Thursday.


"Investors remain sceptical about whether US stocks will continue
rising after the latest minutes from the Federal Reserve's
meeting showed wariness over inflation," said Hideo Mizutani,
chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


He said investors "found no need to rush into buying shares as
there were no especially positive incentives to chase prices
higher."


Market players remained cautious ahead of the G7 meeting amid
speculation that the weakness of the yen could be raised by
European finance chiefs who are worried that the yen-euro
exchange rate is penalising eurozone exporters.


"Although it is said that there is little chance that the yen
will be in focus at the G7 meeting, the yen actually firmed" on
Friday, said Hiroichi Nishi, equity chief at Nikko Cordial
Securities.


"So investors leaned toward to adopting a wait-and-see position,"
he added.


Investors are waiting for the first-quarter corporate earnings
reporting season in the United States to begin next week and for
full-year results in Japan the week after before they build up
their positions, he said.


Toyota dropped 220 yen to 7,150.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 0.19 percent weaker as investors
locked in profits in property stocks amid an uncertain outlook
for interest rates.


Dealers said trading was also cautious ahead of key inflation
data in the US and a meeting of G7 finance ministers and central
bankers this weekend.


The Hang Seng Index closed down 39.24 points at 20,340.97.
Turnover was 57.19 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.3 billion US).


"Everybody is guessing on the US interest rate outlook, and this
has prompted scores of investors to take profit on rate-sensitive
properties after recent gains in the sector," said Howard Gorges,
vice chairman at South China Securities.


"(US) Federal Reserve officials have said that they would be
guided by data and the inflation outlook in their next move on
interest rates. Their stance has inevitably created uncertainties
on interest rates," he said.


Sun Hung Kai Properties falling 0.70 to 92.45.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.32 percent lower but well off their
lows as foreign investors continued to build positions in Samsung
Electronics.


Samsung said its first quarter operating profit fell 42 percent
quarter-on- quarter well below market expectations.


The KOSPI index closed down 4.83 points at 1,520.78. Volume was
419 million shares worth 4.4 trillion won (4.7 billion dollars).


"Samsung Electronics missed market expectations but it seems
investors are buying more into the prospect that the first
quarter was a bottom for the company," Shinyoung Securities
analyst Kim Se-Jung said.


Samsung Electronics fell 3,000 won to 601,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.90 percent lower as concerns over
legal proceedings against Inventec Appliances Corp wiped out
early gains driven by Wall Street's overnight advance.


Dealers said profit-taking set in following news that three
executives of Inventec Appliances have been detained after
prosecutors raided the company's headquarters on alleged insider
trading.


The weighted index closed down 72.90 points at 8,002.30 on
turnover of 114.99 billion Taiwan dollars (3.47 billion US).


Beyond Asset Management Co Ltd president Michael On said
investors were eager to lock in profits from a recent rally,
especially after law enforcement agents took action against a
particular listed firm.


"There were worries about the side effects of such investigations
carried out by legal authorities," he said.


"Investors were wondering whether any further investigation into
other listed companies on any irregularities" would follow, On
said.


He said investors have turned cautious, preferring to wait for
further corporate earnings results before making any further
moves.


"Companies are to report their earnings results for last year and
for the first quarter of this year," he said. "Investors were
reluctant to take any aggressive position immediately."


Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co shed 0.20 to 68.30 dollars.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed 0.36 percent lower as investors
booked profits to snap a nine day winning streak that lifted
stocks to repeated record gains.


Dealers said trade was very heavy again running at over 30
billion dollars as financial stocks and steelmakers lost ground
in a volatile session that saw the key index climb into positive
territory before succumbing to selling.


But sustained fresh fund inflows continue to drive stocks against
the backdrop of a fast growing economy, with the market looking
to corporate results for its next immediate lead.


Despite repeated cautions from some analysts about the risk of a
significant correction, especially once the results season closes
at the end of the month, investors now seem only intent on
getting into a market that is up about 180 percent since January
2006.


The Shanghai Composite Index closed down 12.76 points at 3,518.27
on record turnover of 166.49 billion yuan (21.54 billion US
dollars).


"Some investors chose to take profits ahead of the weekend, and
this is a healthy sign after recent strong across-the-board
gains," said Wang Sai, an analyst at Wanguo Consulting.


But buying is expected to return next week due to expectations
for more strong corporate earnings results.


"The strong performance is likely to continue over the next week,
as more companies issue their annual and quarterly results, most
of which are believed to be stronger-than-market expectations,"
said Wang Jun, an analyst at Merchants Securities.


Huaxia Bank was down 0.39 yuan at 11.30.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed down 0.37 percent as investors took
profits after the market hit record levels during the week.


Dealers said increased speculation of a rise in official interest
rates also weighed on sentiment, they said.


The SP/ASX 200 fell 22.5 points to 6,135.7. Turnover was 2.04
billion shares worth 6.51 billion dollars (5.39 billion US).


Dealers said the Australian market was pulled back by profit
taking and the expectation of an interest rate hike in May.


Meanwhile, concerns the Dow Jones index may fall due to profit-
taking as well as Friday's fall on the Japanese market also
supported selling momentum, Bell Potter Securities private client
advisor Stuart Smith said.


"I think we're just exhibiting a bit of caution today coming into
the weekend," Smith said.


CMC Markets senior dealer James Foulsham said the Australian
dollar, which hit its highest level since October 1990 on Friday,
also held the market down.


"With the Australian dollar continuing its rally through the 0.83
US dollar level, companies like Westfield that generate a lot of
their earnings in the US have been the hardest hit by the move,"
Foulsham said.


Westfield shares fell 0.38 dollars to 20.90.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed flat as some investors continued
to take profits in the wake of the benchmark index's recent
record-breaking run.


Dealers noted however that some low cap penny stocks provided
some support.


The Straits Times Index closed up 0.90 points at 3,373.59, on
volume of 3.87 billion shares worth 2.18 billion Singapore
dollars (1.44 billion US).


"We were still seeing profit-taking today with the index having
gone up quite a bit but overall market volumes are still quite
strong with some investors speculating in penny stocks," a dealer
at a local brokerage said.


Singapore Telecommunications fell 0.02 to 3.46.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed flat with profit-taking offset
by last-minute support for property stocks after the government
announced measures to boost the sector.


Dealers said plantations stocks also extended their impressive
run amid a bullish outlook for the sector.


The composite index gained 1.01 points to 1,308.20 on volume of
2.03 billion shares worth 2.56 billion ringgit (743.90 million
dollars).


"Profit-taking is unavoidable at this level given that the KLCI
has risen very fast," said SBB Securities senior investment
analyst Ng Jun Sheng, referring to the composite index hitting a
13-year high earlier this week.


He cited weak earnings growth for US firms and concerns about
inflation there as among factors that could continue to dampen
sentiment in the near to medium term.


An analyst from a local brokerage said the market came under
profit-taking pressure in the afternoon session as investors
cleared positions ahead of the weekend.


"The market's undertone is bearish ... that's why investors took
profits ahead of the weekend. They don't want to be caught on
Monday if something negative happens on Wall Street tonight," he
said.


Tenaga was flat at 12.00.


BANGKOK: Closed.


JAKARTA: Share prices closed up 0.56 percent on Friday to reach a
fresh record high, buoyed by expectations of healthy corporate
earnings growth.


The composite index closed up 10.755 points at 1,941.152 on
volume of 2.82 billion shares valued at 3.42 trillion rupiah
(375.90 million dollars).


"Investors were accumulating selected stocks, in particular those
that are expected to post better results in the first quarter
compared with a year ago," BNI Securities analyst Norico Gaman
said.


Gaman said that he expects the market to consolidate next week
after its record breaking run.


Bank Mandiri surged 125 rupiah to 3,000 on a drop in its non-
performing loans ratio and expectations of strong first quarter
results.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.19 percent lower due to a lack of
fresh leads.


The composite index fell 6.15 points to 3,217.07. Volume amounted
to 4.8 billion shares worth 1.78 billion pesos (37.1 million
dollars).


"There are no exciting developments and most investors are still
focused on newly-listed Pacific Online," said Lawrence de Leon of
Accord Capital Equities.


Shares of Pacific Online, a provider of online gaming equipment,
jumped 75 centavos to 14 pesos on its second trading day. The
company's price has jumped almost 58 percent from its initial
public offering price.


Philippine Long Distance Telephone fell 25 pesos to 2,400.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed 0.09 percent lower, dragged down
by uncertainty over the impact of regulatory changes affecting
market leader Telecom.


The NZX-50 index was 3.8 points down at 4,164.30 on turnover
worth 120.23 million dollars (87.64 million US).


Telecom fell 13 cents to 4.74 dollars, a day after an 18 percent
rise on news the government will re-auction certain broadcast
spectrum rights.


Brokers said there was uncertainty over the size of a promised
capital return and Telecom's offer to spin off its copper wire
network rather than accept the latest regulatory proposal.


Telecom's statement had been "reasonably aggressive," and there
were fears of a stalemate with the regulator, said Goldman Sachs
JB Were broker Jeremy Coe.


MUMBAI: Share prices rose 2.06 percent as higher-than-expected
fourth quarter profits from earnings bellwether Infosys spurred
fresh buying.


Dealers said investors had been looking for direction from the
results of the the Bangalore-based company which announced net
profit for the three months to March 31 rose to 11.4 billion
rupees (266.5 million dollars) from the same period a year
earlier.


The Sensex rose 270.25 points to 13,384.08 as software stocks
gained across the board on the back of the Infosys results which
kicked off the quarterly earnings season.


"The markets saw a clear signal from the Infosys earnings. We
expect the buying momentum to sustain next week after Tata
Consultancy Services (TCS) announces its earnings," sd Atul
Hatwar, dealer at brokerage Crosseas Securities.

