

Iraq's parliament was on Friday to hold a special session to
condemn a suicide bomb attack in the legislature's canteen that
killed eight people and rattled the US military and Washington.


The bomber struck at the end of lunchtime as lawmakers were
finishing their meals and lingered to chat, leaving pools of
blood and body parts littered across the cafeteria.


The attack was the most spectacular breach of the multiple layers
of security in the heavily fortified Green Zone, that houses the
seat of the Iraqi government and foreign embassies, since the US-
led invasion four years ago.


It was also the deadliest attack inside the zone, long considered
the most secure place in Baghdad and a favourite target for
mortar and rocket attacks from those opposed to the US-backed
Iraqi government and American presence.


At least two of the eight dead were MPs, while 23 other people
were wounded, around half of them also lawmakers.


Within hours of the attack, Iraq's parliament speaker Mahmud
Mashhadani announced on state television that lawmakers would
hold an extraordinary session as a "challenge to terrorism" on
Friday, the day of Muslim rest.


US General David Petraeus, the commander of US-led forces in
Iraq, hailed the special session as a demonstration of "democracy
in Iraq which will not be deterred by the barbaric acts of
terrorists."


The bombing, suspected to have been carried out by a bodyguard of
an MP, came despite numerous security checks at the zone to
prevent unknown people from entering the complex, and defied a
security crackdown in Baghdad.


Launched two months ago, the hefty operation has seen nearly
80,000 US and Iraqi troops deployed in the streets of Baghdad in
a bid to quell daily bloodshed in the capital.


Washington and the US military were left rattled as officials
struggled to explain how the attack could have occurred.


"It's very troubling that this happened inside the Green Zone.
And we're going to work to make sure that, one, we find out how
it happened and that it doesn't happen again," said Dana Perino,
spokeswoman for US President George W. Bush.


Asked if the blast raised questions about the success of the US-
led Baghdad security plan, White House national security
spokesman Gordon Johndroe replied: "No, I think it shows the
determination of the terrorists and extremists."


Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, who is in South Korea in a
bid to drum up international support for his beleaguered country,
swiftly condemned the attack and called for a criminal
investigation into those responsible.


An Iraqi security official said the bombing was carried out by a
man who walked in to the cafeteria wearing an explosive vest and
carrying a briefcase.


US Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver suggested in an
interview with CNN that Al-Qaeda may have been behind the attack.


The bombing elicited strong condemnation from around the world,
led by the US president who rushed to assure Maliki of his
steadfast support.


"I strongly condemn the action. It reminds us, though, that there
is an enemy willing to bomb innocent people and a symbol of
democracy," he said.


Iran, which the United States accuses of aiding anti-US
insurgents, slammed the attack as "Satanic."


"This inhuman and Satanic action was carried out by enemies who
wish only bad for the Iraqi people and who targeted deputies
whether they were Sunni or Shiite," the official IRNA news agency
quoted foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini as
saying.


One of the MPs killed was named by security as Mohammed Awad, a
member of the National Dialogue Front, a Sunni Arab party with 11
seats in the 275-member parliament.


The second MP confirmed killed was not named but was identified
as belonging to the Kurdistan Islamic Union, a fringe Kurdish
grouping with an original line-up of five MPs, one of whom was
shot dead last year.

