

VDO employees are concerned that three factories belonging to
Siemens' car parts subsidiary might be sold or shut down as part
of the German engineering giant's plans to spin off VDO and float
it on the stock exchange, sources said on Friday.


The sources, close to the unions, said that there are growing
concerns among the workforce that one of the factories might be
sold and two others shut down.


A total 4,000 employees work at the three sites.


According to the speculation, VDO's factory in Wuerzburg, south
Germany, could be sold to German company Brose, whose chief
executive has already visited the site where a workforce of 1,700
is employed.


Press reports said that two other sites -- in Karben and
Stollberg -- could be shut down.


A spokeswoman for Siemens told AFP that there were no concrete
plans for any such measures at the moment.


"Confidential talks" had taken place between management and
unions "in which several scenarios were discussed for boosting
productivity by 5.0 percent each year," she said.


The powerful IG Metall labour union urged Siemens to "place its
cards on the table" with regard to the future of VDO.


Siemens had announced at the end of January that it planned to
list 25-50 percent of VDO on the stock exchange, without
revealing a date for the operation.


Press reports have suggested that Siemens is also considering a
straightforward sale of VDO, which is coveted by rivals such as
German tyre and car parts specialist Continental.


On Thursday, Siemens said it had decided to set back the planned
spin-off of VDO by one month owing to "tax issues."


Press reports suggested that the delay was due to disagreements
between management and unions over employees' working conditions
in the spun-off unit.


VDO generates annual sales of around 10 billion euros (13.5
billion dollars) and employs a workforce of more than 50,000
worldwide.


Employees are concerned that, if the unit is sold, they could
suffer a similar fate to the employees of Siemens' former mobile
phone division, which was told to Taiwan-based BenQ in 2005, but
went bankrupt a year later.

