

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao took to the baseball field Friday in
his campaign to patch up with Japan, showing off his skills as a
politician but perhaps not as an athlete.


Wen, making the first visit by a Chinese premier in seven years,
visited the baseball team of Ritsumeikan University in this
ancient capital to demonstrate his love of Japan's national
pastime.


Sporting the team's jersey with the number 35, signifying the
35th anniversary of Japan-China diplomatic ties, southpaw Wen
jogged to warm up before playing catch with the college team's
skipper Yukinori Momiyama.


The smiling Wen went to the pitcher's mound for several throws to
a batter, before trying out a bat.


Although Wen couldn't catch some throws from Momiyama at the
start, he soon got the hang of it.


"He was clumsy at first. It was like tai chi moves, rather than
baseball," Momiyama, 22, told reporters later.


"But his throws got better after he got used to it," he said.


Wen, 64, who has been dubbed at home the "people's premier" for
his approachable personality, said he was happy to be with young
Japanese people.


"I loved baseball as a child. I wanted to play baseball if I came
to Japan," Wen told the college baseball players.


"I haven't played it for 50 years. I'm not good, but I am glad I
can play baseball with students," he said.


Wen came to Japan Wednesday for what he called a visit to "melt
the ice" between the two Asian powers.


Despite strong bilateral trade, political ties were severely
strained due mainly to the repeated visits to a controversial war
shrine by former Japanese prime minister Junichiro Koizumi.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who replaced Koizumi in September
after serving as his right-hand man, has actively sought to mend
the soured political ties by visiting Beijing immediately after
he took office.


Aside from meeting with officials and business leaders, Wen has
used his visit to show himself to Japanese people. On Thursday,
he went for a jog in a Tokyo park and showed off tai chi moves.


In the baseball stadium, he managed hits but no home runs,
although he didn't miss a beat off the field.


"It has been a very successful visit to Japan," he said before
leaving the stadium.

