

Serious flaws in East Timor's presidential election may force
some areas to repeat first-round voting but time to fix the
problem is critically short, an election official said Friday.


The vote count is inconsistent and some polling officials have
failed to carry out their duties properly, said Martinho Gusmao,
a spokesman for the national election commission.


"We noted inconsistency in the data," Gusmao said after Monday's
presidential vote, which ended in a stalemate with a runoff due
on May 8.


In some districts the number of valid ballots did not match the
tally of votes declared for the eight candidates, he said.


Officials also failed to report the count properly using the
correct documentation, he said.


"It is very, very difficult to resolve this situation," he said.
"The worst hypothesis would be a re-election in some areas."


The situation is "very critical" because the problems must be
addressed within 72 hours, which may be impossible, he said.


There have been growing questions about the conduct of the first-
round vote, the first presidential poll in East Timor since
independence in 2002.


Most of the candidates who stood formally demanded a recount,
even though international observers said the poll in the former
Portuguese colony was generally orderly and peaceful.


The commission rejected their demand on Thursday, saying it had
no legal basis to accede to the request.


A number of the candidates also raised the possibility that
voters were intimidated, stoking fears of instability in the
troubled state ahead of the second round.


"Most of the voters did not know what to do," Gusmao said, adding
they should have been better educated about polling procedures.


Jose Ramos-Horta, East Timor's current prime minister, and
Francisco "Lu Olo" Guterres, the ruling Fretilin party's
candidate, emerged to contest the runoff.


Final first-round results were supposed to be published on
Sunday.


Foreign peacekeepers have been on the streets of East Timor,
formally known as Timor-Leste, for nearly a year after gang
violence left 37 people dead and sent 150,000 fleeing their homes
in April and May 2006.


Violence has pulsed through the impoverished country since a
bloody split from Indonesia, which occupied East Timor for 24
years up to 1999.

