

Elections in Nepal slated for June that are a crucial part of a
peace process between the government and former Maoist rebels are
likely to be postponed, a top election official said Friday.


"Technically it will be very difficult to hold the constituent
assembly elections by June," election commissioner Bhojraj
Pokharel told AFP.


As part of a landmark peace deal reached between Nepal's
mainstream political parties and the former rebels last year, the
Himalayan nation was due to go to the polls on June 20 to elect a
body that will rewrite the constitution and address the future of
the embattled monarchy.


"The date set by the government is just over 60 days away, and we
have already told the government that we need at least 110 days
to prepare for the election after necessary legislation has been
passed," Pokharel said.


After fighting for 10 years to impose a communist republic on the
Hindu-majority country in a war that left at least 13,000 people
dead, the Maoists signed up for peace in November 2006.


The Maoists, who still feature on Washington's list of foreign
"terrorist" organisations, have registered their weapons and
fighters with the United Nations as part of the peace deal.


The peace process moved forward again earlier this month when the
former insurgents were given five ministerial posts in a new
22-member interim cabinet.


But the election chief said the country was far from being
secure, with ongoing ethnic unrest in the south that has left at
least 60 people dead also hampering election plans.


"The peace and security situation has not yet improved in the
country," he added in a separate statement. "We cannot ignore the
fact that it could create difficulties if the nation opts to hold
polls without addressing this issue."


The constituent assembly elections will pave the way for a
decision over the future of the monarchy and King Gyanendra,
discredited by his attempted use of dictatorial powers to crush
the Maoist rebellion before the peace deal but still viewed by
many loyalists as a Hindu deity.


The Maoists are lobbying hard for the country to be declared a
republic.

