

The former chief of brewing giant Inbev is seeking a 30-million-
euro (41 -million-dollar) severance deal, a Belgian newspaper
reported Friday amid growing flak in Europe over so-called golden
handshakes.


After getting shown the door in December 2005, John Brock is
fighting the cancellation of stock options worth "several tens of
millions" of euros from the Brazilian-Belgian brewer, according
to daily Le Soir.


The American citizen was replaced by Brazilian Carols Britos at
the helm the world's second-biggest brewer, which owns such beer
brands as Stella Artois, Brahma and Beck's.


In case of departure, his contract allowed for the equivalent of
three years of his gross salary or about 10 million euros, which
InBev is ready to pay, the newspaper said.


The newspaper reported that there was a "conflict" over the stock
options, which a clause in his contract said had to be held onto
for at least three years.


However, Brock was at the helm of the company for only two years
and 10 months and therefore "his options were annulled," Le Soir
said.


Although InBev board had made exceptions in the past for other
executives in similar situations, Brock had no support "at the
end of his reign" from both key Brazilian and Belgian
shareholders.


In addition to challenging the cancellation of his options, Brock
is also seeking a more generous contribution to his pension,
"which should drive his total departure package to 30 million
euros," Le Soir said.


The company declined to comment on the matter when questioned by
AFP.


The dispute comes amid growing concern in Europe but also the
United States about compensation for corporate executives,
especially when they are forced to part from their employers
because of a dismal performance.


Most recently, a 8.5-million-euro severance payment for a French
aerospace executive fuelled widespread outrage on Wednesday in
France with presidential election candidates calling it a
scandal.


Two months away from general elections in Belgium, some parties
are also beginning to clamour for action against golden
handshakes.

