

The Wellington Hurricanes kept their fragile Super 14 play-off
hopes alive with a bonus-point 37-15 victory over the Central
Cheetahs here Friday.


It wasn't a flawless performance but it was the confidence
booster last year's beaten finalists desperately needed, with the
vital fourth try coming in an end- to-end solo sprint by Hosea
Gear on the final hooter.


"The confidence is slowly coming and the boys are wanting to run
the ball and that's a good sign, but we have to watch the
accuracy of what we do," said Hurricanes captain Rodney So'oialo.


The 'Canes still need a solid run over the final three rounds,
including a rematch of last year's final with the Crusaders next
week, to stay in contention for the final four.


But the loss all but ended the Cheetahs' season.


They paid a heavy price for a slow start and defensive lapses
which allowed the Hurricanes to score three tries by the forwards
inside the first half-hour.


Although the Cheetahs struck back just before half-time and
controlled most of the second half, they found that even with a
wealth of territory they lacked the ability to find the line.


The Hurricanes, with six reconditioned All Blacks in their ranks,
attempted to make something of every opportunity and were
rewarded early on when Chris Masoe latched on to a Piri Weepu
grubber kick to score the opening try.


Weepu, again playing out of position at flyhalf, had 100 percent
success with the boot, converting all four tries and kicking
three penalties for a personal match tally of 17 points.


Jerry Collins scored the Hurricanes' second try, off the end of a
Ma'a Nonu break and Jason Eaton scored an intercept try to have
the Hurricanes ahead 24-3 before Gavin Passens scored the
Cheetahs' opening try.


The Hurricanes led 24-10 at half-time and extended the lead to
27-10 through a Weepu penalty soon after the resumption of play
in a rare second-half foray into Cheetahs territory.


Juan Smith scored the Cheetahs second try when the Hurricanes
were down to 14 men after So'oialo was sinbinned for pulling down
a rolling maul on the line.


With time on the clock, right wing Gear scored the bonus-point
try the Hurricanes had waited 50 minutes for when he beat three
tacklers in a 90-metre run to the line.


It has been a disappointing time on the road for the Cheetahs who
have now lost to the Otago Highlanders, Auckland Blues and
Hurricanes in New Zealand.


They still have the Queensland Reds and Western Force to play in
Australia before returning home.

