

Whether it is through the soaring grace of the Eiffel Tower or
the breathtaking beauty of Provence, France is hoping to lure
tourists by persuading Hollywood to shoot more films there.


An unprecedented alliance of French film and local government
officials have descended on Los Angeles this week to attend the
Locations Trade Show, an annual fair that puts potential film
sites in the movie industry's shop window.


The rewards for regions which are successful in attracting a big-
budget film production to shoot in their backyards are immense,
according to Patrick Lamassoure, managing director of the French
film commission, Film France.


"The direct income from foreign film productions in France was
worth 100 million euros in 2005 and between 75 to 80 million
euros in 2006," Lamassoure told AFP, adding that 50-60 percent of
the money came from Hollywood.


Regional authorities in France were also increasingly aware of
the benefits of attracting the film world, Lamassoure said.


A total of 19 companies and institutions from France were
attending the Los Angeles trade fair whereas only three years ago
there were none.


"A feature-length Hollywood production can generate around
300,000 euros a day to a local economy," Lamassoure said. "So you
can imagine the benefits a month- long shoot can have."


The economic effects of a Hollywood film can be felt long after
the camera crews have packed up their trailers and departed.


The Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur (PACA) region in southeast France
hosted a 200-strong film crew during filming of the Ridley Scott-
directed film "A Good Year" in 2005, starring Russell Crowe.


Although the movie was a box-office flop upon its release late
last year, its visually ravishing portrayal of the Luberon
countryside ensured that tourists have already begun asking for
the whereabouts of the film's location.


"Cinema is a powerful tool for promoting tourism in our region,"
said Olivier Della Suda, the manager of the Provence tourism
board, which seeks to attract big-spending American visitors in
ever-greater numbers.


A recent study of tourists in France found that 62 percent had
been "clearly" influenced by films when deciding their choice of
holiday destination, according to Lamassoure.


With 76 million foreign visitors every year, France is the No.1
destination for tourists, an industry worth around 35 billion
dollars ever year, Lamassoure said. The tourism sector's
involvement gives the French film industry valuable marketing
dollars, Lamassoure said.


However, France still faced strong opposition from other European
countries which offered more generous tax incentives to studios,
Lamassoure said.


"There are films which are supposed to be made in France and
which go to our neighbors for purely tax reasons," he said,
citing the example of Steven Spielberg's thriller "Munich," which
saw the Hungarian capital Budapest transformed into Paris.

