

Japan's Nissan Motor Co., seeking to catch up with rivals such as
Toyota in energy-saving motoring, said Friday it aimed to become
a leader in electric vehicles through a joint venture with NEC
Corp.


Nissan and NEC said they would invest 490 million yen (4.1
million dollars) in the 50-50 joint venture, to be named
Automotive Energy Supply Corp. (AESC), in the aim of mass
production of lithium-ion batteries for cars by 2009.


Japan's number two automaker said it would launch its own
electric vehicle powered by the lithium-ion batteries by the
early part of the next decade.


It will also use batteries developed by the venture in its own
hybrid vehicle by 2010 and accelerate the development of hybrid
plug-in technology that can use grid power to recharge batteries
as well as onboard charging.


Nissan said it would also try to sell the technology to rival
automakers. There are currently no plans to build a new plant to
produce the batteries.


"We aim to be the leading company in mass production of lithium-
ion batteries for the global automotive community," said Nissan
executive vice president Carlos Tavares.


"We believe that lithium-ion batteries will become the key power
source for the future generations of electric-powered green
vehicles," he told a press conference.


The dream of an electric car, which has been around since the
time of Thomas Edison, has so far failed to break into the
mainstream because of limited battery life that makes such
vehicles impractical for most purposes.


Nissan is not the only automaker chasing the dream -- Toyota
Motor Corp. has a joint venture in batteries with Matsushita
Electric Industrial Co.


Japanese automakers, particularly Toyota, have struggled to keep
pace with demand for their gas-electric hybrids, particularly in
the United States where interest in fuel-guzzling jeeps has been
hit by soaring gasoline prices.


However, Nissan has been slower to embrace hybrids, which are
equipped with an electric motor and a standard petrol engine.


Under a green push it announced last year, Nissan also aims to
introduce a vehicle running entirely on bio-ethanol fuel for the
Brazilian market by 2009 and launch a next-generation fuel cell
early in the next decade.


Nissan, which is 44 percent owned by France's Renault, warned
investors in February that net profits were expected to slide by
over 11 percent in the year to March 2007 due to poor sales,
particularly in its home market.

