

Gunmen shot dead a radical Muslim cleric in his mosque and fired
on the congregation, killing two more people, in the northern
Nigerian city of Kano Friday, witnesses said.


Followers of Jaafar Adam, a Wahhabi cleric, said the attack was
political, ahead of the weekend elections for governors and
legislators for the country's 36 states.


Two gunmen entered the mosque in a Kano suburb where Adam was
leading morning prayers, shot the cleric twice and then opened
fire on worshippers, Haruna Idris, one of Adam's disciples, told
AFP at the scene where thousands of people had gathered.


"The sheikh was seriously injured and he died moments after he
was taken to hospital. Two more people were killed while three
others are now in hospital with serious gunshot wounds", Idris
said.


"The two assailants rushed out of the mosque and jumped into a
car with a driver at the wheel and sped off", Idris said.


Mohammed Baba, Kano police spokesman, said two people were killed
in the attack.


"To our knowledge Sheikh Jaafar Adam and one other person were
killed in the attack. We have started investigations to identify
those who perpetrated this heinous crime and bring them to
justice. It is premature to make any comments on this incident",
he said.


Adam's followers, however, believe the murder was politically
motivated.


"It is just a day to elections and some people came and killed
this man with a large following in a mosque", said Nasiru Hamisu,
a civil servant in his forties.


"It is evident the murder has political undertones and I believe
some people want to use this to cause religious turmoil in Kano
to disrupt the elections for whatever reason", Hamisu said.


Saudi-trained Adam was known for his scathing criticism of the
government and other Muslim sects, especially the Sufi order, as
well as his strong calls for the strict implementation of the
sharia legal system.


He would always snub the governors of the 12 northern states that
practise sharia for allegedly not implementing it properly.


Hundreds of his follwers would flock to his mosque built by the
London-based Saudi charity Al-Muntada Al-Islami in the Dorayi
district of Kano to listen to his Friday sermons.

