

Rescuers were hoping for "a miracle" Friday as they continued the
search for five workers missing after a Norwegian oil rig support
vessel capsized in freezing waters off north Scotland, killing
three.


The Bourbon Dolphin overturned about 75 nautical miles (140
kilometres) west of the remote north Shetland Islands near the
Transocean Rather oil platform at about 5:00 pm (1600 GMT)
Thursday.


Of the 15 people on board, 14 were Norwegian nationals --
reportedly including a man and his 15-year-old son, who was on a
training course -- and one was Danish.


Seven people were airlifted to hospital on the Shetland islands
after the accident.


A spokeswoman for the Maritime and Coastal Agency (MCA) said it
was unlikely that the missing crew members would be found alive.


"It would be a miracle if they had survived all night in five
degrees (Celsius; 41 Fahrenheit) freezing water. It is very sad,"
she said.


But Michael Mulford, a spokesman for RAF Kinloss, the Royal Air
Force base in north-east Scotland involved in the rescue efforts,
told BBC radio the group could have survived in an air pocket in
the anchor handling tug.


"I don't want to raise people's hopes unnecessarily, but there is
still a chance and where rescue teams see even the smallest
chance, it's always worth a calculated risk," he said.


Mulford added that, while details on how the accident happened
remain sketchy, it would have taken place "in a split second."


Navy divers equipped with heat seeking cameras searched through
the night for the missing Norwegians and they hope to investigate
underneath the vessel, which has not sunk, later Friday.


Helicopters have also been scouring the North Sea since first
light.


It is thought unlikely that the crew were wearing safety
equipment as they were inside the vessel when it capsized.


All non-essential personnel have been taken off the Transocean
Rather oil platform because there is a small risk that the
damaged 75 metre (246 foot) long, 2,500 tonne boat could damage
it.


Mulford said that it was likely that the Marine Accident
Investigation Branch would hold an inquiry into the accident.


Local police are also set to launch an investigation.


Jim Sinclair, Shetland coastguard watch commander, told the BBC
online that four helicopters and up to seven surface craft had
been involved in the rescue effort.


"It's a very complex and delicate operation as the vessel is
actually upside down and stability is uncertain so they (divers)
want to make sure of their own safety before they enter the
hull," he said.


The ship, which is less than a year old, was working in the
vicinity of the Rosebank oilfield, the BBC reported.

