

Elections in Nepal slated for June that are a crucial part of a
peace process between the government and former Maoist rebels are
likely to be postponed, a top election official said Friday.


"Technically it will be very difficult to hold the constituent
assembly elections by June," election commissioner Bhojraj
Pokharel told AFP.


As part of a landmark peace deal reached between Nepal's
mainstream political parties and the former rebels last year, the
Himalayan nation was due to go to the polls on June 20 to elect a
body that will rewrite the constitution and address the future of
the embattled monarchy.


"The date set by the government is just over 60 days away, and we
have already told the government that we need at least 110 days
to prepare for the election after necessary legislation has been
passed," Pokharel said.


He warned that security problems could also hamper elections
plans, with at least 60 people killed in ongoing ethnic unrest in
the south.


"The peace and security situation has not yet improved in the
country," he added in a separate statement.


"We cannot ignore the fact that it could create difficulties if
the nation opts to hold polls without addressing this issue."


The new government containing Maoist ministers declined to
comment on the election commissioner's warnings.


"The government will give its views after a meeting later Friday
between the top leaders of the eight parties including the
Maoists," Rajendra Mahato, minister for industry, commerce and
supplies, told AFP.


Recently appointed Maoist government spokeman Krishna Bahadur
Mahara was unavailable for comment.


The Maoists signed a peace deal in November 2006 after fighting
for 10 years to impose a communist republic on the Hindu-majority
country in a war that left at least 13,000 people dead.


The former rebels, who still feature on Washington's list of
foreign "terrorist" organisations, have registered their weapons
and fighters with the United Nations as part of the accord.


The peace process moved forward again earlier this month when the
Maoists were given five ministerial posts in a new 22-member
interim cabinet.


The United Nations, which has been invited to assist in the
elections and monitor former rebel weapons and soldiers,
expressed concerns late last month that the poll timing announced
by the new government was unrealistic.


"The complex political context has significantly delayed the
process of timely decision making that was needed to meet what
was from the outset an ambitious electoral timeline," said Ian
Martin, the UN's envoy to Nepal.


The constituent assembly elections will pave the way for a
decision over the future of the monarchy and King Gyanendra,
discredited by his attempted use of dictatorial powers to crush
the Maoist rebellion before the peace deal but still viewed by
many loyalists as a Hindu deity.


The Maoists are lobbying hard for the country to be declared a
republic.

