

A leading rebel in the Central African Republic said Friday he
would be signing a peace deal with President Francois Bozize in
the northeastern town of Birao.


"I will be signing the accord at 3:00 pm (1400 GMT) with the head
of state," Damane Zakaria, acting head of the Union of Democratic
Forces for the Rally (UFDR), told AFP.


Bozize left the capital Bangui earlier Friday for Birao,
accompanied by reporters, but the purpose of his trip was not
revealed.


An aide to Zakaria, Abdallah Youssouf, told AFP, "The agreement
is aimed at bringing peace to the whole of the CAR. We are laying
down our arms and beginning dialogue" with the government.


Youssouf said the accord provided for a general amnesty and for
rebel fighters to join the government army.


The amnesty would cover UFDR president Michel Am Non Droko
Djotodia and spokesman Abakar Sabone, who are currently being
held in prison in Benin.


"Once our leaders are free, they will discuss an eventual role in
the government," Youssouf said.


Speaking by cellphone, Zakaria and Youssouf said they were on
their way to Birao, which is located near the borders with Chad
and Sudan.


The UFDR held Birao for a month last November and launched
another attack on the town at the beginning of last month but
were repelled by government troops backed by French forces.


Bozize last week called for rebels in his conflict-torn country
to disarm, state radio reported Wednesday.


The government signed a peace agreement with one of the main
rebel chiefs, Abdoulaye Miskine, head of a somewhat nebulous
Centrafrican People's Democratic Liberation Front, in February,
but several groups refused to take part, including the UFDR.


In the past two years the northern CAR has seen an upsurge in
violence by insurgents hostile to Bozize, who came to power in a
2003 coup but won presidential elections in May last year.


The government is assisted by a multinational force from other
states in the region as well as the French air force in its
attempts to repel rebel groups and reduce bandit attacks in the
north.


The fighting has led to numerous deaths and to the displacement
of more than 280,000 people, according to the United Nations.
Some 70,000 have fled to neighboring Chad, Cameroon and Sudan.


The country's army has also been accused of violent acts against
civilians in the north.


The United Nations children's agency, UNICEF, has warned of a
"humanitarian disaster" in the CAR, amid fears that the country,
like Chad, is being increasingly affected by the conflict in
Sudan's western Darfur region.


UNICEF has appealed for 11.7 million dollars (8.7 million euros)
to help meet the country's humanitarian needs but to date only 22
percent of this total has been raised.

