

A family wiped out in its sleep and a playing child killed by a
stray bullet: horrific details fill the hundreds of compensation
claims for US military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The Defense Department released 496 files at the request of the
American Civil Liberties Union under the Freedom of Information
Act, and the ACLU published them online Thursday.


They detail just some of the compensation requests and decisions
for losses relating to US military actions in the war-torn
countries.


US Army spokesman Bob Tallman told AFP compensation totaled 31.6
million dollars for civilians in Iraq and 720,000 dollars for
Afghanistan.


According to one of the Pentagon files, a civilian from the
eastern Iraqi province of Salah Ad Din reported that US forces
fired more than 100 hundred rounds on his sleeping family,
killing his mother, father and brother, according to the site.


"The firepower was of such magnitude that 32 of the family's
sheep were also killed."


"The Army acknowledged responsibility and the claim resulted in
two payments" -- 11,200 dollars' compensation and a 2,500-dollar
"condolence" bill.


This is a fraction of the total payments for the conflicts so far
in Iraq, where US forces are fighting insurgents after invading
in the wake of the deadly attacks on the United States on
September 11, 2001.


Iraqi authorities estimated in November 2006 that up to 150,000
people in the country had died in violence since the US-led
invasion in 2003.


One claim was filed by a man whose only son was killed by gunfire
from US forces patrolling the Tigris River where he was fishing.


"There is sufficient evidence to indicate that US forces
intentionally killed the claimant's son," the file reads.


"Unfortunately, those forces were involved in security operations
at the time. Therefore, this case falls within the combat
exception. The claim is denied."


One of the military case files details a "sympathy payment" for a
boy who was hit and killed by a military truck when he ran
outside after a "handout of gifts and candy" at a school in the
central city of Karbala.


In another, the military recommended a 4,000-dollar payment for
the family of a nine-year-old boy killed when a stray bullet from
a US soldier hit him in the head as he played outside their
house.


"The US soldiers went to the boy's funeral and apologized to the
family," taking their details but never contacting them,
according to the file.


"It's just a tragedy when someone loses a life, particularly a
civilian who has been caught in the middle of the fighting,"
Tallman told AFP, but added: "We don't target civilians."


The ACLU, a leading civil liberties group in the United States,
put the files in a searchable database on its website at
www.aclu.org/civiliancasualties.


About one in five of the compensation claim cases involved
civilians killed at road checkpoints or close to US convoys, it
said.


One claim was rejected because the claimant's son had been killed
during a gunfight between US-led coalition forces and "anti-
coalition" fighters.


"The US cannot pay your claim because your son's death was
incident to combat," the report says. "I am sorry for your loss,
and I wish you well in a Free Iraq."

