

Swedish employers will as of January be entitled to ask employees
for a doctor's note on their first day of sick leave if they want
to qualify for benefits, according to a draft bill presented on
Friday.


The proposal is aimed at combatting high levels of long-term sick
leave and disability, but has been heavily criticised amid fears
it could overload doctors and is seen as a thinly-veiled bid to
hunt down abusers of Sweden's generous welfare system.


Under the current system, Swedish employers can ask a sick
employee for a doctor's certificate after a week's absence.


According to the social affairs ministry, almost one in five
Swedes in the workforce is currently receiving sickness benefits.
Out of 4.5 million people, some 540,000 are receiving early
retirement benefits due to disability and another 250,000 are on
long-term sick leave.


There were however no statistics available for short-term sick
leave.


According to the government, the new legislation would make it
easier for employers to detect problems among employees who are
often sick.


"The government's primary objective is to make it possible for
employers to take responsibility and act preventively," Social
Affairs Minister Cristina Husmark Pehrsson said in a statement.


"If an employer takes charge of the problem immediately then we
can reduce the pressure on the health care system in the long
term."


If an employer asks for a doctor's note and the employee is
unable to provide one, the employer would not be required to pay
sickness benefits.


Benefits amount to 80 percent of an employee's salary, with the
monthly allowance capped at around 19,200 kronor (2,070 euros,
2,800 dollars).


Several unions, including the powerful Confederation of Trade
Unions and the Confederation of Professional Employees (TCO),
have criticised the proposal.


"This is the wrong use of resources, it creates unnecessary
bureaucracy. We need our doctors to take charge of the real
problem, which is long-term sick leave -- not to write doctor's
notes on the first day," TCO chairman Sture Nordh told Swedish
radio.


The proposal is the latest in a slew of reforms introduced by the
centre-right government in power since October to get Swedes back
into the workforce, including reduced employment benefits.

