

Paul Wolfowitz, whose leadership of the World Bank has become
mired in a scandal over his girlfriend's pay package, is no
stranger to high-stakes controversy given his role as one of the
architects of the Iraq war.


The US foreign policy expert's tenure at the head of the global
lender seemed undermined Friday after the board of directors
pinned responsibility of the scandal directly on him and
rebellious bank staff called for his resignation.


Wolfowitz, 63, was nominated to lead the bank in March 2005 by
President George W. Bush and quickly moved to root out corruption
in its lending, making the scandal over the 200,000 dollar pay
package accorded his Libyan-born partner and World Bank staffer
Shaha Riza even more indigestible for some.


But his tenure at the bank has been rough from the beginning, as
he sought to change the way the bank handles its 20 billion
dollar-plus in loans each year around the world.


"I made a mistake, for which I am sorry," Wolfowitz told
journalists Thursday ahead of the weekend's spring meetings of
the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.


"I will accept any remedies" proposed by the bank's 24-member
executive board, he added.


Under a deal that the board said was personally ordered by
Wolfowitz, Riza was rapidly promoted and assigned to the US State
Department, and paid more than even Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice.


Aside from overshadowing this weekend's meeting, the furor over
Riza's deal weakens Wolfowitz's bold policy initiatives,
including his campaign against corruption.


Wolfowitz has already been forced to backtrack from initial plans
to bypass national governments more, in a bid to ensure that aid
gets to the poor without being siphoned off by corrupt
bureaucrats.


According to a Fox News report, some of the World Bank's biggest
borrowers such as China and India are now threatening to go
elsewhere for funds, which would undermine the bank's very reason
for existence.


One of the more brilliant and controversial US foreign policy
thinkers of his generation and a star of the "neoconservative"
movement, Wolfowitz has been bound up with US foreign and defense
policy for most of his career, rather than the Wall Street
background that is the traditional experience of World Bank
presidents.


Born on December 22, 1943 in New York, Wolfowitz was a
mathematician by training and secured a doctorate in political
science from the University of Chicago.


His main experience in development issues was as the US
ambassador to Indonesia from 1986 to 1989 where he was a tough
negotiator on intellectual property rights and an advocate of
political openness.


Before that, he had worked at the Defense and State departments,
where as head of Asian affairs he played a key role nurturing
democracy in the Philippines after the downfall of the Marcos
dictatorship in 1986.


On returning from Jakarta, Wolfowitz rejoined the Pentagon as an
assistant secretary of defense as the United States started to
redefine its military policy after the end of the Cold War in
Europe.


He also helped coordinate the US response to the Iraqi invasion
of Kuwait in 1990 and the Gulf War that followed.


During Bill Clinton's presidency, Wolfowitz returned to academia
as dean of the prestigious School of Advanced International
Studies at Johns Hopkins University in Washington.


He became deputy to defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld in the
Republican administration that took power in 2001.


He has defended the US plan to invade Iraq but his position has
made him a target of critics such as film director Michael Moore
in his award-winning movie "Fahrenheit 9/11."

