

China claimed Friday to have confiscated more than 90 percent of
the pirated CDs and DVDs produced nationwide last year, amid deep
tensions with the United States over copyright abuse.


A team of five million workers from the Ministry of Culture
fanned out across the country in 2006 to fight piracy and seized
110 million illegal CDs and DVDs, an average of 22 each, China's
official Xinhua news agency said.


Xinhua said there were 120 million fake CDs and DVDs produced
each year, meaning only 10 million such products were left to be
sold in China and around the world.


Based on Xinhua's statistics, 91.6 percent of the fake discs
produced in China were confiscated.


The figure of 10 million appears remarkably low considering the
vast number of shops across the country that each sell thousands
of pirated movies and musical CDs.


Many governments overseas also claim that pirated Chinese DVDs
and CDs have flooded their markets.


The Xinhua article continued Beijing's public relations
counterattack after the United States on Tuesday lodged a case at
the World Trade Organisation over widespread copyright piracy in
China.


"Piracy and counterfeiting levels in China remain unacceptably
high," US Trade Representative Susan Schwab said in Washington on
Monday, brandishing a fake Chinese DVD of the Ben Stiller hit:
"Night at the Museum."


China's top copyright official said in response on Tuesday that
the United States did not understand the huge efforts Beijing had
undertaken to combat the problem.


"It's not a sensible move for the US government to file such a
complaint," Xinhua quoted Intellectual Property Office
commissioner Tian Lipu as saying.


"By doing so, the United States has ignored the Chinese
government's immense efforts and great achievements in
strengthening IPR (intellectual property rights) protection and
tightening enforcement of its copyright laws."


China will continue its PR offensive on Saturday by destroying a
large number of counterfeit CDs and DVDs in Beijing, with members
of the foreign press invited to attend the demonstration.

