

A Malaysian court Friday jailed a group of 13 Chinese fishermen
for 18 months each for poaching nearly 80 protected turtles,
officials said.


They were the second group of fishermen from China's Hainan
island jailed this week for turtle poaching off the waters of
Malaysia's eastern Sabah state, with 17 men sentenced on
Wednesday for catching 274 of the creatures.


Mohamad Yusoff Anthony, the prosecutor in the case for Sabah's
fisheries department, said a magistrate's court had jailed the 13
for the three offences of poaching two protected turtle species,
and encroaching on Malaysian waters.


The captain of the Chinese-registered trawler was fined 508,000
ringgit (147,182 dollars) and each of the crew 86,000 ringgit but
they chose instead to serve the six-month terms for each of the
offences, he said.


"They said they feel so sorry and they want to go home as soon as
possible to look after their families," said Mohamad Yusoff.


The 13 Chinese were part of an original group of 19 captured by
marine police on March 26 with 47 Green turtles and 29 Hawksbill
turtles. All but five of the turtles were left alive.


Mohamad Yusoff said four men had been released because there was
no evidence of poaching, while two boys aged 16 years old and
considered juveniles, would be deported.


"Both of them will be sent home immediately," he told AFP.


Despite the jail terms, Mohamad Yusoff said he expected more
poachers because of the lucrative trade in the endangered turtles
for their meat and for use in traditional medicines, citing
confessions from the earlier group of 17.


"They said they came here together with almost 10 boats or
vessels, but the police managed to apprehend only two boats," he
said.


"According to them, they can sell each turtle for 1,000 dollars
US, so you can imagine how much (they make) with more than 200,"
he said.


China is a major importer of turtles from Asia for food and
medicinal purposes, and aggressive poaching in Southeast Asian
countries has seen sea turtle numbers falling.


The World Conservation Union lists the Hawksbill turtle as
critically endangered, while the Green turtle is also endangered.

