

Portuguese winger Cristiano Ronaldo has agreed terms on a new
five-year contract at Manchester United, the club announced
Friday on its official website.


The deal will mean that 22-year-old Ronaldo, one of the most
exciting talents in world football, will stay at Old Trafford
until at least June 2010.


"It is fantastic news," said United manager Sir Alex Ferguson.


"It emphasises the point that Cristiano is happy here and that he
is at the right club.


"He has a great relationship with the team, staff and the fans
and he will go on to be one of Manchester United's great
players."


The announcement ended months of speculation that Ronaldo could
be on his way out of England at the end of the season with
Spanish giants Real Madrid cited among the suitors.


"I am delighted," said Ronaldo of his new contract.


"I spoke with Sir Alex and (club chairman) David Gill about my
future and everyone knew that I wanted to stay.


"I am very happy at the club and I want to win trophies and
hopefully we will do that this season."


Ronaldo, who joined United as a teenager from Sporting Lisbon in
2003 for 17.6 million euros, has been a key element in a season
that sees sitting atop the English Premiership, in the semi-
finals of the Champions League for the first time since 2002 and
through to the semi-finals of the English FA Cup.


He scored two goals at Old Trafford on Tuesday in the 7-1
crushing of AS Roma in the last eight of the Champions League.


Ronaldo has also played a starring role for Portugal with whom he
has already won 46 times, appearing notably in the 2004 Euro
finals at home and last year's World Cup finals in Germany.


Team-mate Ryan Giggs was full of praise for his fellow forward's
contribution at Manchester United.


"I don't believe there is anyone who could rival him as being the
best player in the world," the Welshman said.


"For someone in his position, and of his age, to be as consistent
as he has been, is remarkable.


"His performances have been brilliant. To secure his future for
the next five years is great news for everyone."

