

South Korea's Samsung Electronics on Friday said net profit
during the three months to March fell 15 percent from a year
earlier due to weak chip prices.


The weaker-than-expected performance sent Samsung shares down 0.5
percent to close at 601,000 won, but off the day's low of 595,000
won as the company gave quick relief by saying that earnings
momentum will revive in the second half.


In the first quarter the company made a net profit of 1.6
trillion won (1.7 billion dollars), down 15 percent from a year
earlier, on revenue of 14.39 trillion won, up 3.1 percent.


Operating profit for the quarter was 1.18 trillion won, down 26.7
percent year- on-year.


The first quarter operating profit of the semiconductor sector
sagged 52 percent year-on-year or 68 percent from the previous
quarter to 540 billion won, the lowest quarterly operating profit
over the past four years.


Semiconductor sales fell three percent year-on-year to 4.48
trillion won in the three months to March.


But the company put on a brave face on the weak figures.


"There were many difficulties in the first quarter due to
sluggish demand for key products and a decline in their prices
due to an oversupply in a seasonally weak period of the IT
industry," the company said in a statement.


"Nevertheless, we believe we have secured a footing for better
earnings by focusing on enhancing competitiveness in the long run
rather than pursuing short-term profits."


It noted that the price for semiconductor products had begun to
stabilise in March and market conditions were expected to recover
in the second half.


"The first-quarter operating profit came in slightly below the
market consensus, largely due to the weaker than expected
performance of the semiconductor business," vice president of the
IR team Lee Keon-Hyok said.


The operating profit margin in the semiconductor division came in
at 12 percent in the first quarter, compared with 31 percent a
quarter earlier.


The TFT-LCD business had revenue of 2.84 trillion won in the
first quarter, down 11 percent from the fourth quarter, as its
operating profit fell 76 percent to 770 billion won amid sluggish
demand for large panels and falling panel prices.


The operating profit margin in its TFT-LCD operation was three
percent in the first quarter, down from 10 percent a quarter
earlier.


"Samsung's first-quarter result was weaker than expected as chip
prices fell at a faster speed than anticipated," Kyobo Securities
analyst Kim Young-joon said.


He said chip prices could continue dropping through the second
quarter.

