

Asia's oldest exchange, the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), has
approved the sale of a 41 percent stake held by broker members to
the country's top financial institutions and some foreign funds,
officials said.


The BSE board approved the deal at a price of 5,200 rupees (122
dollars) per share, a statement said, while not disclosing the
exact value of the deal.


The deal came after two foreign exchanges -- the SGX (Singapore
Exchange) and the Deutsche Boerse, operator of the Frankfurt
stock exchange -- agreed to each pick up five percent stakes in
the Bombay Stock Exchange earlier this year.


With the latest deal, the BSE has sold a majority 51 percent
stake in the exchange, as part of its move towards
demutualization in line with an order by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India last year.


The remaining 49 percent will remain in the hands of BSE broker-
members.


"The new ownership pattern of the exchange will significantly
strengthen its institutional character. It is transformational
and marks a watershed event in the evolution of the BSE," said
BSE chief executive Rajnikant Patel.


"Once the regulatory approvals come through, we will explore the
idea of listing," Patel told NDTV Profit television channel.


The 41 percent stake just sold will be divided among 20 domestic
financial institutions, foreign funds and domestic corporates,
the statement said, without giving details.


SGX and the Deutsche Boerse each paid 42.7 million dollars for
their five percent stakes earlier this year.


The Indian government, which issued new guidelines on overseas
investment in Indian exchanges at the close of 2006, has capped
the stake of individual investors at five percent and limited
direct foreign ownership to 26 percent.


Earlier this year the New York Stock Exchange, investment bank
Goldman Sachs and two other global investors bought 20 percent of
India's National Stock Exchange, the country's largest, in five
percent tranches for a total of 460 million dollars.

