

Centrist presidential candidate Francois Bayrou has taken his
campaign to France's multi-ethnic second city of Marseille,
playing the diversity card in his battle for a place in next
month's second round.


The 55-year-old former education minister is currently in third
place behind the Socialist Segolene Royal, but pollsters say both
stand a chance of making it to a run-off against the frontrunner
Nicolas Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing right-wing UMP
party.


Bayrou told a rally late Thursday in this Mediterranean city --
long a crossroads for migration with over 10 percent of its
population from ethnic minorities and many more with roots in
Italy or Armenia -- was a "symbol of the kind of France we need
to build."


"Marseille has achieved a rare alchemy, that of a town that
forged itself entirely from diversity," Bayrou said.


Despite unemployment at 14 percent -- reaching 40 percent on some
housing estates -- Marseille was largely spared by the 2005
riots, which some attribute to a strong sense of belonging to the
city across the ethic divide.


Bayrou took a direct swipe at Sarkozy's tough line on law and
order and immigration, attacking a project "based on
confrontation" and linking it to "an extraordinary rise of
tensions and fears among the French."


Instead he pledged measures to restore "genuine social mobility,"
to tackle the fact "millions of French people feel that their
future is blocked, that they are the victims of discrimination."


"I want France to become a country where you can reach the
highest spheres of government even when you started out as a
factory worker," he said, while promising to make work pay more
than welfare.


Bayrou's trip to the port city received a big boost from the
presence of Azouz Begag, the former minister of equal
opportunities, himself of Algerian descent, who stood down in
protest at Sarkozy's stance as interior minister.


"France needs an encounter of the third kind -- and the third
kind is Francois Bayrou," Begag told North African youths who
gave them a triumphant welcome in the city centre while yelling
anti-Sarkozy slogans.


Begag has written an incendiary book accusing Sarkozy of
pandering to the far- right anti-immigrant vote, a charge echoed
by Bayrou.


Crowd-pleasing promises at the Marseille rally included a pledge
-- also made by Sarkozy -- to ban golden parachutes following an
uproar over a package for a top executive at the crisis-hit plane
manufacturer Airbus.


Bayrou hammered home a pro-European message, calling for a new,
simpler constitution to be put to a referendum, and a big push to
tackle issues such as the environment, African development and
Middle East peace.


And he paid a solemn tribute to the victims of Wednesday's
attacks in Algeria, a former French colony where Islamist
radicals have also designated France as a potential target,
promising "firmness in the face of terrorism".


The Marseille crowd ranged from die-hard centrist supporters --
one warning France was "doomed to failure" if Bayrou does not win
-- to undecided voters still shopping around, like almost one of
two French voters.


Christian Kane, a local leader of the CRAN black community
association, of Senegalese descent, said "the good thing about
Bayrou is that since he has no power base he will have to bring
in new faces."


Gerard, a sound engineer in his 50s, said he was drawn to Bayrou
because "he speaks to us like adults, none of that flag-waving
nonsense," in reference to the eruption of "national identity" as
a campaign theme for Royal and Sarkozy.


Freshly returned to France from Kenya where she ran a safari
company, Yvelise Lefebvre, 53 -- until now a right-wing voter --
said she was "completely confident" in a Bayrou victory, and that
he would secure a new parliamentary majority in next month's
legislative elections.


But Jean-Paul Rocca Serra, the brother of a local UDF leader,
said he thought Bayrou had little chance of reaching the second
round.


"He started too late, and with a new set of ideas, when Sarkozy
has been working on his case for seven years. The French had
forgotten all about centrism, and in a blocked society like ours
it's hard to move the goalposts."


"Also, people are afraid to vote for him, because he looks a bit
alone."

