

Exiled Russian multi-millionaire Boris Berezovsky called Friday
for the violent overthrow of President Vladimir Putin,
threatening to aggravate already-tense ties between London and
Moscow.


The British government -- whose relations with Russia were
seriously strained by former spy Alexander Litvinenko's murder in
London last year -- immediately sought to distance itself from
the call.


"We deplore any call for the violent overthrow of a sovereign
state. We expect everyone living or working in or visiting the
UK, whatever their status, to obey our laws," said a ministry
spokesman.


The British-based Russian tycoon, who fled his homeland in 2000,
told the Guardian daily that the current Kremlin regime could not
be ousted democratically and there was no other option but force.


"We need to use force to change this regime ... It isn't possible
to change this regime through democratic means," he said. "There
can be no change without force, pressure."


In particular he said he was in contact with certain elite people
in Russia, and was involved in financing. Asked by the newspaper
if he was fomenting a revolution, he said: "You are absolutely
correct."


Russian authorities immediately renewed a call for Britain to
extradite Berezovsky.


"Calls for the violent overthrow of the political authorities are
sufficient grounds to undertake the relevant measures," Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by the Interfax news
agency.


"I have given the order to open a criminal case insofar as he
openly called for the overthrow of the constitutional authorities
in Russia," Prosecutor General Yury Chaika told journalists in
Moscow.


Berezovksy, a close associate of former Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, obtained political asylum in Britain in 2003, and London
has repeatedly rejected Moscow's extradition requests.


Lavrov said Friday the exiled businessman was "crudely abusing"
his status as a political refugee and "undertaking actions which
under British legislation demand his extradition."


The Russian oligarch was questioned late last month as part of
Russia's ongoing probe into Litvinenko's murder by radioactive
poisoning in November, with London police asking questions on
behalf of Russian investigators.


Berezovsky was among those who pointed the finger firmly at
Moscow, a charge Russia repeatedly denied but which has added to
growing strains between the Kremlin and London, as well as with
other Western governments.


In his latest comments, Berezovsky declined to elaborate on
contacts he claimed to have with members of the Russian political
elite, saying they would be murdered if he identified them.


Berezovsky told the paper that he was providing his "political
experience and ideology" and his "understanding of how it could
be done."


"There are also practical steps which I am doing now, and mostly
it is financial."


The Foreign Office said it would study Berezovsky's latest
comments carefully. "We will look carefully at these and any
future statements by Mr Berezovsky in that light," said the
spokesman.


The Russian tycoon was not immediately available for comment.

