

India can "make or break" the Doha global trade talks, the United
States said on Friday, as it urged cooperation among all nations
to clinch a deal.


"India is in a profoundly important position in these
negotiations -- one of a handful of countries that can make or
break the Doha Round," US Trade Representative Susan Schwab told
a business audience.


Her statement came after six leading trade players vowed here
late Thursday to accelerate efforts to conclude the Doha round,
aimed at lifting millions out of poverty, and said they were
aiming to get a deal by the end of the year.


"We must work and move together -- and we must do so soon -- to
realise the full potential of the Doha Round," Schwab said.


Ministers from the United States, the European Union, India,
Brazil, Australia and Japan  -- known as the G-6 -- said they
would work "with the entire WTO membership in the best interests
of completing the (Doha) round in the time envisaged."


"The nature of India's engagement will determine that of many
other developing countries," said Schwab.


"Nothing will give a bigger boost to development than a strong
market opening outcome that generates new trade flows in all
three major areas of negotiations -- agriculture, manufactured
goods and services," she said.


"India has a greater stake than most in achieving such an
outcome," she added.


The Doha Round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
have struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in
agricultural, industrial goods and services.


Developing nations are pushing the US and other wealthy nations
to slash farm subsidies, while poorer countries are being
squeezed to allow more access to their markets.


The meeting in Delhi marked the first time the leading trade
powers had assembled for talks since the Doha discussions
collapsed last July when Washington refused to yield more ground
in cutting farm subsidies.


Schwab was in New Delhi for discussions with her Indian
counterpart, Commerce Minister Kamal Nath after earlier attending
the G-6 meeting.


Nath, also addressing the forum organised by the Confederation of
Indian Industry, said the challenge before the G-6 was to see how
"creative we can be to work around the differences to ensure it's
a win-win situation for all."


"We must strengthen the rule-based multilateral trading system,"
he added.

