

The Spanish nurses and doctors who save lives while on the job
become a life- threatening menace when they slide behind the
wheel of a car, according to a study released this week.


Spaniards are already among the worst drink-and-drive offenders
in Europe, with 30 to 50 percent of crash fatalities linked to
alcohol, reports the study, published Thursday in the British
journal BMC Public Health.


Comparable figures for other European countries range from 40
percent in Ireland to 14 percent in Britain and Germany.


But the study, based on interviews with more than 16,000 Spanish
university graduates, also found that doctors and and nurses
reigned unchallenged when it came to driving while under the
influence.


"Particularly worrisome is the fact that health professionals
reported this habit at even higher rates," wrote lead author
Maria Segui-Gomez, an epidemiologist at the University in Navarra
and at John Hopkins University in the United States, along with
four co-authors.


Doctors of both sexes and females nurses were twenty percent more
likely to drive after having consumed alcohol that any other
category of university graduate.


Male nurses were particularly cavalier, boozing and cruising
twice as often. Nearly half of those questioned admitted to
having driven after consuming alcohol, 30 percent saying they did
so "sometimes". There was also drive-and- drink gender gap, with
men nearly twice as likely to hit the bottle before turning over
the engine.


A third of all respondents in the survey said that that
occasionally indulging in binge drinking.


In Europe, there were 127,000 deaths in vehicle crashes and 2.4
million injuries in 2005, according to the World Health
Organization. The estimated cost of both exceeds two percent of
GDP each year.


Drivers with blood alcohol levels as little as 0.02 to 0.05 grams
per 100 millimetres sustain three times more chances of being
killed in a single vehicle crash that drivers with no alcohol at
all, the report said.


That number shoots of to 50 times more likely for 16-20 year old
males with with alcohol blood levels of 0.08 to 0.1 g/100ml --
roughly the equivalent of three beers for a 70 kilogram man.

