

A planned gas pipeline under the Baltic Sea from Russia to
Germany may be routed through Estonian waters, an official from
the construction consortium said Friday.


"We see a possibility that a pipeline may go through Estonian
waters," Neel Stroebaek from the Nord Stream consortium told
reporters in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius.


"Two days ago we asked for a permit to measure sea depth from the
Estonian authorities," she added.


Russian gas giant Gazprom and German firms BASF and E.ON agreed
in 2005 to build a 1,200-kilometre (740-mile) pipeline beneath
the Baltic Sea and be ready to turn on the natural gas taps by
2010.


The initial plan was to route the pipeline through the
territorial waters and economic zone of Russia, Finland, Sweden,
Denmark and Germany.


However, Stroebaek said, Finland asked for the route to be
shifted in order to protect the environment.


Stroebaek explained that the pipeline would possible be routed
through Estonia's exclusive economic zone, rather than its
territorial waters.


Under international law, a country has special rights over the
exploration and use of marine resources in a 200-nautical-mile
band of water off its coast.


Territorial waters, meanwhile, stretch just 12 nautical miles
from the land.


"When we have the permit from the Estonian authorities the
measurement of the sea depth will take few weeks. In the late
summer or early autumn we hope we shall be ready to say whether
we are going to Estonia or not," Stroebaek said.


She also stressed that if Nord Stream decided it wanted to lay
the pipeline in Estonia's zone, the consortium would require a
permit from the Baltic state -- as is the case for any other
affected country.


The pipeline plan has sparked controversy in several European
Union member states around the Baltic Sea.


There are worries that the pipeline could damage the marine
environment.


Nord Stream is due to deliver its environmental impact report and
the route for the pipeline in the autumn.


Critics have also accused fellow EU member Germany of going it
alone in talks with Russia.


There are concerns that a direct undersea route, rather than a
land pipeline through the Baltic states and Poland, will give
Moscow even more clout than it already has in the European energy
market.

