

Japanese stocks will take their cue from US company results and
remarks from top world finance chiefs over the coming week after
a lacklustre recent performance, analysts said Friday.


Earnings announcements from US high-tech firms are likely to set
the tone for the Tokyo market, which will also be looking ahead
to the domestic company results season starting the following
week, they said.


Over the week to April 13, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 index dropped by 120.83 points or 0.69 percent to
17,363.95, reversing more than half of the previous week's 1.14
percent gain.


The broader TOPIX index of all first-section companies shed 11.58
points or 0.67 percent to 1,705.50, after a gain of 0.20 percent
the previous week.


"The Nikkei index fell despite gains made in New York," said
Masatoshi Sato, a senior analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities,
adding that it was hard to say why.


"I suppose the trading conditions in Tokyo were not solid. People
are mildly concerned about the outlook of the US economy," he
said.


Japanese share prices ended Friday on a downbeat note as
investors refrained from buying ahead of a weekend meeting of
Group of Seven finance chiefs amid concern that the weakness of
the yen would come into focus, dealers said.


Investors were waiting for the first-quarter corporate earnings
reporting season in the United States and for full-year results
in Japan the week after before they build up their positions,
they added.


"I would speculate that the earnings announcements from high-tech
companies in the United States will provide clues in the coming
week," said Sato.


Nomura Securities said that it expected the Nikkei to hover
between 17,200 and 17,800 points over the coming week.


"The forex movement is likely to provide a key (driver) for the
coming week since there will be few new economic data in the
coming week," it said.


If the dollar gains on US retail data, housing data and consumer
prices, investor optimism toward Tokyo shares might brighten,
Nomura said.

