

North Korea promised Friday to honour a multinational deal on
scrapping its nuclear programme once it can confirm that a
dispute over millions of dollars in frozen assets has been
settled.


"There is no reason to be pessimistic. We will be faithful to
this agreement if the Americans respect its clauses," Kim Son-
gyong, deputy director of the foreign ministry's European
department, told AFP in an interview in Pyongyang.


"We will respect our commitment as it is written in the February
13 agreement. No more and no less," he said.


The North's foreign ministry, in a statement on the official
Korean Central News Agency, made the same pledge. It said it
would "confirm soon" whether its funds in a Macau bank have been
unfrozen as the United States has promised.


The announcements raised hopes of progress in implementing the
February 13 six- nation denuclearisation agreement, one day
before a deadline for the first step -- the shutdown of the
Yongbyon reactor.


North Korea had refused to move till it got its 25 million
dollars back.


"We will assume our responsibilities as soon as the 25 million
dollars frozen in Macau are in our hands," Kim told AFP and Le
Monde.


The North Koreans reportedly told visiting New Mexico governor
Bill Richardson earlier this week that they would invite back
inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency within a
day after receiving their funds.


The foreign ministry statement said it had noted the announcement
by the US Treasury and Macau authorities that the funds in Banco
Delta Asia have been freed.


"A DPRK (North Korea) financial institution concerned will
confirm soon whether the measure is valid," it said without
elaborating.


"The DPRK remains unchanged in its will to implement the February
13 agreement and will also move when the lifting of the sanction
is proved to be a reality."


The statements were Pyongyang's first official response to US
announcements this week that the accounts in the Macau bank,
frozen since 2005 on suspicion of illegality, were available for
collection.


South Korea's Yonhap news agency said North Korean officials had
already arrived in the southern Chinese city.


"North Koreans say they have come here to collect the money. They
complained the withdrawal was being delayed," Yonhap quoted a
source in Macau as saying.


The source said Macau financial authorities will soon approve
proxies needed to withdraw money from North Korean accounts held
under aliases, or in the names of people who have since died.


US and South Korean officials acknowledge that Saturday's
deadline for the reactor shutdown cannot be met. But the United
States wants the North at least to make a start, by inviting in
UN atomic inspectors.


Officials say the reclusive communist state, which tested its
first atomic bomb last October, has stockpiled enough plutonium
from the reactor for another six to 12 weapons and they want to
cut off the supply.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon said earlier Friday
that as long as all sides remain committed, "it's important not
to be bound to the date but to carry out the agreed steps in a
stable way."


The US State Department Thursday also said the deadline may be
extended.


It said the five parties negotiating with North Korea -- China,
Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States -- would discuss
developments over the weekend.


After visiting Tokyo and Seoul, US chief nuclear envoy
Christopher Hill arrived in Beijing Friday for more
consultations. He has said he is willing to meet his North Korean
counterpart Kim Kye-Gwan there if Kim requests it.


Hill responded cautiously to the foreign ministry position,
restated Friday. "I heard that about a month ago," he told
reporters at the airport.


Asked whether he hopes North Korea would begin disarmaming by the
Saturday deadline, he replied: "That's up to them. I'm not hoping
for anything."

