

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao's landmark visit to Japan shows the
Asian powers are looking pragmatically at the benefits of better
ties even though they remain divided on a host of issues,
analysts said Friday.


With intense personal diplomacy and grand public statements, Wen
vowed to "melt the ice" between the two nations which just months
ago were barely speaking to each other.


"The visit indicated that China and Japan are now trying to seek
practical benefits, putting aside points of confrontation," said
Yoshinobu Yamamoto, professor of politics at Aoyama University in
Tokyo.


"Prime Minister Wen was in a surprisingly friendly mood and made
positive impressions during the trip," he said. "In that sense,
Prime Minister Wen has achieved his initial goal."


A confident Wen told reporters Friday: "A lot of Japanese people
say we have succeeded in melting the ice."


But neither side appears to have budged on the hard issues. In
the midst of Wen's three-day visit, China reiterated it would not
budge on its territorial claims to lucrative gas reserves in the
East China Sea.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in turn has kept strategically
silent on whether he will visit the Yasukuni shrine to war dead,
which China considers a symbol of Japan's past aggression.


"If Abe visits Yasukuni, everything the two countries have built
will be wiped out easily," said Yamamoto.


China shunned summits with Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi,
citing his pilgrimages to the Shinto shrine.


"Ice can't melt immediately, but this visit raises the
temperature of the mutual relationship. This will help ties
improve," said Huang Dahui, director of the Centre of East Asia
Studies at the Renmin University of China.


On Thursday, making his first address to the Japanese parliament
by a Chinese leader in 22 years, Wen called for the two nations
to work together and acknowledged that Japanese also suffered
during World War II.


Even amid soaring tensions, trade has steadily grown between
Japan and China, with Japanese firms relying on the giant
neighbour as a source of abundant labour and consumers.


Abe, despite a record as a hardliner on history issues, went to
China days after succeeding Koizumi in September in a bid to
repair ties.


For Abe, winning over China and South Korea is also crucial to
his conservative goals -- namely rewriting the US-imposed post-
World War II pacifist constitution.


He already pushed through reforms giving Japan a full-fledged
defence ministry, breaking another post-war taboo, without any
significant criticism overseas.


When one left-wing lawmaker opposed to rewriting the constitution
brought up the issue with Wen, he was quoted as replying only,
"The most important thing for Japan is to go along the way of
peaceful development."


During his trip, Wen did not make any direct mention of either
the Yasukuni shrine or Abe's recent controversial remarks about
World War II sex slaves.


"China believes the history issue is the most important issue to
China-Japan relations, this has not changed," said Jin Linbo,
researcher with the China Institute of International Studies in
Beijing.


But Jin said Wen hoped to "consolidate and improve the political
atmosphere between the two countries."


"The political issue affects economic relations," said fellow
analyst Huang. "Since Abe became prime minister, the relationship
between China and Japan has improved, so the trade ties have
improved as well."

