

The World Bank's 24 executive directors came out of the shadows
early Friday when they appeared to place embattled bank president
Paul Wolfowitz in a corner over a favoritism scandal.


Demolishing his explanation over how his girlfriend, Shaha Riza,
ended up with a nearly 200,000-dollar pay package, the board's
finding that Wolfowitz was mainly responsible in the case was
likely to fuel demands from staff for the former US deputy
secretary of defense to resign.


That could leave the directors in the position of having to find
a new head for the bank, to oversee the politically sensitive job
of lending more than 20 billion dollars each year around the
world to foster development.


The directors are normally a low-profile group who derive their
powers from the bank's governors -- typically the finance
minister of each of the powerful lender's 185 member nations, who
meet once a year.


The bank's five biggest shareholders -- in descending order, the
United States, Japan, Germany, Britain and France -- appoint a
director each. The 19 other directors represent the rest of the
bank's member states.


European Union nations, therefore, form the single largest bloc
on the board. While they could have outvoted the US government's
nomination of the controversial Wolfowitz two years ago, they
went along with his selection.


They may be regretting their acquiescence now after Wolfowitz was
engulfed in the dispute surrounding Riza, which has followed
clashes with the board over his anti-corruption drive and
management style.


Ever since the bank and its sister institution, the International
Monetary Fund, were created in 1944, the bank's president has
been an American and the IMF's chief a European.


That arrangement has come under increasing criticism in recent
years, especially in Asia, where fast-emerging economies are
demanding a greater say in the running of the Washington
powerbrokers.


Even the World Bank's staff association, in calling for
Wolfowitz's resignation Thursday, called on the executive board
to "take the lead in launching a global merit-based search for a
new president who can restore the bank's integrity and regain the
trust (of donors)."


The World Bank also has 26 vice presidents including three senior
vice presidents, each in charge of a different department.


The bank's president serves a five-year renewable term. Wolfowitz
succeeded James Wolfensohn, who stepped down in May 2005 after a
decade in charge.


Wolfowitz is the bank's 10th president, and its most
controversial since Robert McNamara (1968-1981), who as US
defense secretary was the architect of the Vietnam War.


Wolfowitz, ironically, came with similarly controversial baggage,
having served as deputy US defense secretary and helped to
engineer the war in Iraq.


The president oversees about 10,000 staff serving in Washington
and in more than 100 country offices around the world.


The World Bank Group comprises five institutions: the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the
International Development Association (IDA), the International
Finance Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
and the International Center for Settlement of Investment
Disputes.


Its main lending arms, the IBRD and IDA, extended nearly 24
billion dollars in the 2006 fiscal year to hundreds of
development projects around the world.


The bank claims to have moved on from its past support for
massive infrastructure projects to smaller-scale but more
effective anti-poverty initiatives, including support for social
services like health and education.


Through its various agencies, the bank bills itself as the
largest external funder of education and HIV/AIDS programs in the
world.


Along with the IMF, it is also in the forefront of efforts to
relieve debt owed by the poorest nations, although campaigners
argue that the Washington institutions were instrumental in that
debt being amassed in the first place.

