

The Tamil Tigers vowed Friday to push back against an advance by
government troops in the east of Sri Lanka and accused the
military of "genocidal activities" there.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) denied military
claims they were retreating in the face of an onslaught in the
Eastern Province, where they were ejected from a coastal
stronghold in January, and said they would retaliate "very soon."


"As far as the LTTE is concerned we have adjusted our tactics
according to the needs and we have not withdrawn from the east,"
the LTTE's political wing leader S. P. Thamilselvan said.


"I believe only our actions in the coming period will answer the
propaganda (of the government) whether the Sri Lankan military
has won a stable victory," he said in an e-mail interview with
AFP.


The LTTE's Thamilselvan, who is also the group's top peace
negotiator, said the military was "behaving like an occupational
force that has let loose its genocidal activities against the
Tamil people" in the east.


He said the Tigers had turned the tables on government forces in
the past and inflicted heavy losses, adding, "I believe similar
instances will be repeated in the east very soon."


Defence ministry spokesman Prasad Samarasinghe said here Thursday
that the Tigers were on the run in the coastal Eastern Province,
where they have been restricted to a jungle area just outside the
lagoon town of Batticaloa.


"Only about 140 square kilometres (54 square miles) of jungle
land in the Thoppigala area (near Batticaloa) still remain under
LTTE control and we believe around 300 to 350 rebels are in the
jungles," Samarasinghe told reporters.


The Sri Lankan military says its operations against the Tigers in
the east are a "defensive humanitarian operation."


The government has refused to allow journalists into areas held
by the Tigers, although it says there is no formal censorship.


"The Sri Lankan military is spin doctoring their own creation of
this human misery as military victories," Thamilselvan said from
the rebel-held north.


More than 4,000 people died between December 2005 and the first
week of March 2007, including 675 civilians and 1,040 security
personnel, according to defence ministry figures.


The LTTE has waged a 35-year campaign for independence that has
claimed more than 60,000 lives.

