

Violent protests in Milan's Chinatown shone the spotlight on
Italy's largest Chinese community, seen by many residents of the
northern economic hub as a law unto themselves.


"Now that they are enforcing the law, (Chinatown residents) feel
under attack, but they should respect the law like us," said
Manuela Montanari, who runs a lingerie shop in the district where
running battles broke out Thursday between police and hundreds of
Chinese youths -- sparked by a parking ticket.


Milan's right-wing Mayor Letizia Moratti launched a crackdown on
law and order in Chinatown two months ago, and came under
criticism Friday for enforcing traffic and other rules "in too
drastic a way," in the words of a La Repubblica commentator.


Chinatown residents "were used to working illegally and parking
illegally," Montanari said, adding: "We've lost our customers
over the last two or three years because of the lack of public
order" and because more and more wholesale stores are moving into
the district.


"Before it was a neighbourhood where people came to shop, but now
it's no longer the case," said Montanari, whose family has owned
her store for nearly 50 years.


Several dozen people including police officers suffered injuries
in Thursday's melee, which developed after a shopkeeper of
Chinese origin loudly protested a fine of 40 euros (54 dollars)
for parking illegally.


Beijing's consul in Milan, Limin Zhang, complained Thursday:
"It's not an isolated case. We've been under heavy harassment for
two months now."


Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, for his part, demanded an
explanation, while Interior Minister Giuliano Amato commented:
"It is difficult to dialogue with the Chinese, who are a closed
community."


Chinese shopkeeper Chen Xiaoqiu, furious over the incident, had
pasted news photos of the unrest in the window of his variety
store.


"We work hard," he told AFP. "We live legally, the city has given
us a permit and now they are preventing us from working, from
delivering our merchandise."


Chen, who opened his business 10 years ago, added: "Now what can
I do if I can't work anymore?"


In the window of a Chinese restaurant were handwritten posters
reading "No to Closing the Neighbourhood," "Milan, Open City" and
"Equality for All."


The violence produced banner headlines in Friday newspapers
across Italy such as "Milan: Revolt of the City Within the City,"
in Italy's leading daily Corriere della Sera.


The centre-left La Repubblica said the "sidewalk revolt" should
not be "underestimated" even though it was "a first in Italy
between a foreign community" and police.


La Repubblica said the protest revealed "a new pride, unknown in
previous generations" among Chinese immigrants, who began
settling in the northern economic hub in the 1920s.


The paper said Chinese immigrants are "atypical" because most are
"relatively wealthy," hailing from the economically developed
coastal provinces of Fujian and Zhejiang.


It noted that the some 13,000 Chinese in Milan make up about one-
fifth of the overall Chinese community in Italy. Another 10,000
are thought to be in the country illegally.


Corriere said "lawlessness is king" in Milan's Chinatown, while
Mayor Moratti told a news conference Thursday: "We won't tolerate
any free zone in the city."


The community has been so successful economically that the
"dragon" has begun "quietly, inexorably, with its own logic"
conquering new territory in Milan, La Repubblica said.


"Chinatown has grown, but this impetuous and chaotic Chinese
economic revolution has forced the city authorities to
intervene," it said.


The paper however said the crackdown has been too harsh, as if
the city were "trying to make up for time lost through the
indifference of previous city governments."

