

A German state leader came under fire Friday for defending the
Nazi past of a predecessor, as critics demanded that Chancellor
Angela Merkel distance herself from her fellow conservative.


The premier of the southwestern state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
Guenther Oettinger, insisted in a eulogy for former state leader
Hans Filbinger, a navy judge under the Third Reich, that he was
an "opponent of the Nazi regime".


"There is no verdict that Hans Filbinger handed down that led to
someone losing his life," he said, adding that the judge faced
enormous pressure under the Nazis that he was unable to resist.


The leader of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Charlotte
Knobloch, said Oettinger's claim was "dangerous and, for the
survivors, an insulting perversion of historical reality."


"One must be able to expect more empathy and awareness of
historical responsibility from a political representative of
Germany," she said, echoing criticism from the Social Democrats
and the opposition Green party.


Joel Berger, a rabbi in the state capital Stuttgart, said
Oettinger had knowingly brushed aside Filbinger's entanglement in
the Nazi regime for political purposes.


"He better have damned good evidence for publicly claiming
Filbinger was an opponent of the Nazi regime," he told the daily
Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger.


French-German journalist and commentator Beate Klarsfeld urged
Merkel as German leader, current European Union president and
chief of the Christian Democrats (CDU), of which Oettinger is a
member, to set the record straight.


"Oettinger apparently needs tutoring on the fascist era," she
told the Chemnitzer Freie Presse newspaper.


Klarsfeld became famous for branding then chancellor and former
Baden- Wuerttemberg state leader Kurt-Georg Kiesinger a Nazi at a
CDU party congress in 1968 before slapping his face.


Filbinger led Baden-Wuerttemberg from 1966 to 1978, when he
resigned after his involvement, as a judge or prosecutor, in
death sentences against deserters during World War II came to
light.


He never expressed regret about his Nazi past and claimed he had
been tapped for involvement in a new government by the military
officers behind the failed attempt to assassinate Adolf Hitler on
July 20, 1944.


The state chapter of the CDU fiercely defended Filbinger, naming
him its honorary chairman in 1979.


Filbinger died Sunday at the age of 93.

