

Cyprus on Friday condemned the detention of a Cypriot MEP at a
British military base on the island after he was arrested during
an official visit by a European parliament delegation.


British Sovereign Base Area (SBA) police intercepted a mini-bus
carrying a delegation of nine Euro MPs to the south coast air
base on Thursday, boarding the bus to arrest Cypriot Marios
Matsakis and taking him away in handcuffs.


"He is being detained in police custody to appear in court on May
15," British Forces Cyprus spokesman Dennis Barnes told AFP after
the arrest during the delegation's visit to a controversial
antenna site at Royal Air Force Akrotiri.


"However he would be released on 500 pounds (1,166 dollars, 862
euros) bail if he chooses to pay it."


Cyprus government spokesman Christodoulos Pashardes said "strong
protests" had been made to Britain over the politician's arrest
and detention which it condemned, demanding his "immediate
release."


British military authorities said that Matsakis -- a well known
anti-bases campaigner -- had failed to pay his bail after being
released by a bases court last year on charges of criminal
damage.


In April 2006, Matsakis allegedly sprayed graffiti on military
vehicles and bases property.


In court on Thursday he refused to pay the outstanding 300 pounds
(700 dollars, 517 euros) bail, plus a 200-pound (466-dollar,
345-euro) non-payment penalty, saying he did not recognise the
British bases court.


The judge said Matsakis should remain in custody until bail was
paid or until the next hearing, scheduled for next month.


"On appearing in court Mr Matsakis was given the opportunity to
pay the outstanding money but refused to recognise the court or
its authority," Barnes said.


Dutch MEP Johannes Blokland, who led the European delegation,
called the incident "unacceptable" and "shocking."


Matsakis has campaigned to get the British military to leave
Cyprus and has been arrested several times.


In 2001 his arrest for protesting against Akrotiri's giant
alleged "spy antennas" sparked riots on the base by Greek
Cypriots demanding his release.


Despite his anti-bases credentials, Matsakis made a personal plea
as a Euro MP to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to release
the 15 British naval personnel captured by Iran on March 23.


Britain has had military bases on Cyprus since it gained
independence from its colonial ruler in 1960. Some 10,000
military personnel and their families are stationed on the
island.

