

South Korea expressed optimism Friday that US and South Korean
legislators would ratify a major free trade agreement forged last
week.


"I have positive expectations for ratification (in the US
Congress)," Seoul's chief negotiator Kim Jong-Hoon told a news
conference.


"The agreement was well done... We shared the same view that this
was perfectly balanced."


He said the United States had never failed to have a free trade
accord ratified by Congress, and South Korea's legislature was
also expected to approve it.


Kim ruled out the possibility of opening new talks to revise the
deal, which was crafted at the last minute after 10 months of
tough negotiations.


"The deal has been done and that's it. There will be no
renegotiations," he said. "As of today, we have not received any
proposal from the US side to reopen negotiations."


His comment followed news reports that his US counterpart, Wendy
Cutler, said Democrats in Congress may demand amendments on
labour rights and the environment.


Some key US lawmakers have threatened to kill the deal -- the
biggest for the US since the 1993 North American Free Trade
Agreement -- without the full reopening of South Korea's beef
market.


"I will oppose the Korea Free Trade Agreement, and in fact I will
not allow it to move through the Senate, unless and until Korea
completely lifts its ban on US beef," said Max Baucus, head of
the powerful Senate finance committee.


Seoul last year agreed to accept US boneless beef but rejected
three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments. It
verbally promised to positively consider a wider opening soon.


If the deal survives opposition in both countries' legislatures,
South Korea will be the only Northeast Asian country to seal an
FTA with Washington.


"Korea was lucky enough to sign the FTA with the United States,"
Kim said, adding other Asian countries would be under pressure to
hammer out similar deals.


He said South Korea has no immediate plan to resume stalled trade
talks with Japan but was ready to open negotiations with China.


The talks with Japan, South Korea's largest trading partner after
China, have been stalled since November 2004, 11 months after
negotiations began.


"There is no sign of resuming negotiations with Japan in the near
future," Kim said.


Japan last week signed a free trade agreement with Thailand and
said it would study an FTA with the United States. It also hopes
to restart negotiations with South Korea.


Kim said talks with the European Union would start before the end
of May.

