

Security was tight in India's most populous state of Uttar
Pradesh on Friday as more than 16 million people were expected to
vote in the second round of staggered state assembly elections.


The polls come halfway through the five-year team of the
Congress-led national government and will be closely watched as
an indicator of the popularity of Congress as well as the main
opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).


Some 66,000 security personnel have been deployed to ensure law
and order in the 58 constituencies where polling was to take
place, said A.K. Bishnoi, the chief electoral officer in the
state capital Lucknow.


He described the conduct of the polls as a "challenge," given the
sheer scale of the task in a state of 180 million people which is
dotted with illegal gun makers and suffers high crime.


"But we are ready to take up the task to ensure free and fair
elections so that clean government could take shape in days to
come," he added.


Voting began at 7:00 am (0130 GMT) with voters trickling in to
the some of the 8,479 polling centres.


Among the 881 candidates in the fray were 179 with criminal
records, according to data compiled by Uttar Pradesh Election
Watch, a non-governmental organisation founded by former police
officers.


"Some of them are even involved in heinous crimes like murder and
kidnapping," said Ishwar Chand Dwivedi, the head of the watchdog.


Opinion polls said Mayawati Kumari, a woman from India's
"untouchable" Dalit classes who now leads the Dalit-based Bahujan
Samaj Party, was marginally ahead of Uttar Pradesh's incumbent
chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav.


The Congress party was likely to better its record of 25 seats in
the 403 member state assembly, thanks to some valiant campaigning
by its chief Sonia Gandhi and her son and heir-apparent Rahul,
the polls said.


The surveys showed the BJP, upset by Congress in national polls
in 2004, was likely to do well in the state polls that began
April 7 and end on May 8.


Earlier this year, the BJP won state polls to the northern states
of Uttarakhand and Punjab.

