

Laotian officials have threatened to deport three North Korean
child defectors to their probable execution unless they pay 1,000
dollars each in bribes, a Japanese aid group said Friday.


The children -- aged 12, 14 and 17 -- were arrested after
crossing China into Laos and detained for three months, said the
non-governmental Life Funds for North Korean Refugees.


"Some Laotian officials dealing with the children have demanded
each of them pay 1,000 dollars to be freed as they completed
their three-month sentences in prison," said Hiroshi Kato,
executive director of the group.


"The officials initially demanded the bribe independently from
Pyongyang authorities, but North Korean consular officials have
recently threatened to send the children back to their home
country where they would be executed," he said.


Kato doubted the alleged bribery demand came from the central
government in Vientiane, saying that officials asked for the
money after seeing the children had contact numbers in South
Korea and the United States.


The children, who fled poverty in North Korea, slipped a note to
Kato's group which visited them in detention to provide aid, he
said.


The group originally kept quiet about the alleged bribery but
decided to go public after the execution threats, Kato said,
adding that the NGO submitted a petition to the Laotian embassy
in Tokyo.


A Laotian spokesman denied the allegations of bribery and said
the government has yet to verify the children's nationalities.


"The three youngsters came from China without any documentation.
No one can establish their origin," foreign ministry spokesman
Yong Chanthalangsy said.


"We hope we can soon finish the investigation and find a
solution," he said.


He said the children wanted to cross into Thailand over the
Mekong River.


Thailand is a favourite destination for North Koreans seeking
safe passage to a third country, usually South Korea.


The US embassy in Vientiane said it does not comment on
individual asylum or refugee cases.


The US has had "concerns for a long time about the plight of
North Korean refugees," said Amy Archibald, an embassy
spokeswoman.

