

A stubborn Hong Kong man has blocked plans for a huge property
project in a southern Chinese city by refusing to move out of his
house which now stands isolated in the middle of a construction
site, a report said Friday.


Choi Chu-cheung was demanding more compensation from developers
in the booming central business district of Shenzhen, the South
China Morning Post said.


While 389 households accepted compensation and moved out this
year, Choi said he had rejected a 5.06 million yuan (650,000 US)
offer.


A photograph showed his six-storey villa standing alone in the
middle of the massive site where the developers hope to build an
88-storey financial centre, which would be the city's tallest.


Although the 57-year-old man said he and his wife Zhang Lianhao
had been ordered to move out by Thursday by local authorities,
they have vowed to stay put until they get 14 million yuan in
compensation or land of equal value.


Choi said he was inspired by a couple in the southwestern city of
Chongqing whose house attained almost iconic status because of
their three-year refusal to move for a huge property project.


"The couple is my model. I'm sure I will win this battle as they
did," the Post quoted Choi as saying.


Earlier this year, the modest two-storey brick house in Chongqing
owned by Wu Ping and her husband became one of the most
recognisable homes in China thanks to widely circulated pictures
of the structure sitting defiantly in the middle of an excavated
construction pit.


Wu's struggle against the developers earned her the nickname
"Stubborn Nail." The house was finally demolished earlier this
month after a court said the couple would be given a new home
nearby and 900,000 yuan in damages.


In Shenzhen, local authorities said Choi's demands were
unreasonable, arguing that the land was once collectively owned
by Choi and his villagers but became state-owned in 1992, the
newspaper said.


Property disputes are rife in China, often involving illegal land
grabs by developers in collusion the government.


The national parliament passed a landmark law solidifying private
property rights this month partly to combat such disputes.

