

Global crude prices edged higher in Asian trade Friday on
concerns over tightening US gasoline supplies and after an
international oil policy watchdog urged OPEC to increase
production, dealers said.


At 2:15 pm (0615 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 24 cents at 64.09 dollars
per barrel after surging 1.84 dollars to 63.85 dollars in late US
trades Thursday.


Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 49 cents to 69.21
dollars per barrel.


"People are looking at the strong demand for gasoline in the US.
Another reason is that last night, the IEA reported that world
crude oil stocks have been down by a huge amount. These are push
factors," said Mitsui Bussan Futures chief commodities strategist
Tetsu Emori in Tokyo.


The International Energy Agency (IEA), a policy adviser to 26
member countries, warned in a report on Thursday that the OPEC
oil cartel might have cut its production too much, with
insufficient current output eroding world stock levels.


The 12-member Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
decided to cut production twice at the end of last year to help
support prices that were falling at the time.


"Our opinion is that crude supply is too tight and with prices
close to 70 dollars a barrel the market is sending a signal that
it needs more oil," said the editor of the IEA's monthly oil
market report, Lawrence Eagles.


Emori added that gasoline demand in the US market was 1.9 percent
higher than a year ago.


"The gasoline inventories drawdown is too fast and much higher
than last year," Emori said.


The US Department of Energy said Wednesday gasoline reserves
slumped by 5.5 million barrels in the week to April 6, against
market expectations for a fall of 1.4 million barrels.


Gasoline stockpiles are in focus before the United States summer
driving season that starts next month and when many Americans
take to the roads for their holidays.


"US gasoline supplies keep falling further and further behind the
demand curve as refiners get ready to make their move to catch
up. Can the refiners do it or will their big push be too little
to late?" Phil Flynn of Alaron Trading said during US trading
hours.


In its report, the IEA forecast demand this year to be 85.8
million bpd, a reduction of 250,000 bpd from a previous estimate.

