

Violent protests in Milan's Chinatown produced banner headlines
in Friday newspapers across Italy decrying a "sidewalk revolt"
that broke out over a parking ticket.


"Milan: Revolt of the City Within the City," wrote Italy's
leading daily Corriere della Sera over dramatic photographs of
running battles that broke out Thursday between police and
hundreds of Chinese youths.


Several dozen people including police officers suffered injuries
in the melee, which developed after a shopkeeper of Chinese
origin loudly protested a fine of 40 euros (54 dollars) for
parking illegally.


The centre-left daily La Repubblica said the "sidewalk revolt"
should not be "underestimated" even though it was "a first in
Italy between a foreign community" and police.


La Repubblica said the protest revealed "a new pride, unknown in
previous generations" among Chinese immigrants, who began
settling in the northern economic hub in the 1920s.


La Repubblica said Chinese immigrants are "atypical" because most
are "relatively wealthy," hailing from the economically developed
coastal provinces of Fujian and Zhejiang.


The paper notes that the some 13,000 Chinese in Milan make up
about one-fifth of the overall Chinese community in Italy.
Another 10,000 are thought to be in the country illegally.


Corriere said "lawlessness was king" in Milan's Chinatown, while
the city's right-wing Mayor Letizia Moratti told a news
conference Thursday: "We won't tolerate any free zone in the
city."


The community has been so successful economically that the
"dragon" has begun "quietly, inexorably, with its own logic"
conquering new territory in Milan, La Repubblica said.


"Chinatown has grown, but this impetuous and chaotic Chinese
economic revolution has forced the city authorities to
intervene," it said.


The paper however criticised the municipal authorities for
enforcing traffic and other rules "in too drastic a way, trying
to make up for time lost through the indifference of previous
city governments."

