

Amnesty International on Friday accused Sri Lanka of distorting a
campaign at the cricket World Cup aimed at highlighting the
deteriorating human rights situation on the war-torn island.


The London-based watchdog is urging Sri Lanka and Tamil Tiger
rebels to improve their rights record and asked fans in the
Caribbean to sign white cricket balls marked "play by the rules."


Colombo is furious and has lodged a protest with the
International Cricket Council, but Amnesty said the campaign was
not aimed at the Sri Lankan cricket team or a boycott of Sri
Lankan sports.


"The lives of hundreds of thousands of Sri Lankans are being
affected -- our campaign is about these people, not the Sri
Lankan cricket team," Amnesty's Asia Pacific Director said Purna
Sen said in a statement.


"Civilians desperately need better protection and a key goal of
our campaign is to press for independent human rights monitors to
investigate human rights abuses and identify the perpetrators."


Rights activists have said that at least 1,000 people have
disappeared in the island in the past year. In recent months,
bodies have been found of people shot dead "execution-style" and
dumped in swamps and roadsides.


Intensified fighting between government troops and Tamil Tiger
rebels has also forced over 300,000 people to flee their homes,
the rights group said.


Amnesty said Sri Lankans "are rightly proud of their ethnically
diverse national cricket team," but said they should also think
about "hundreds of thousands of people (who) have had to flee the
fighting to live in temporary shelter -- and so are not able to
live in safety let alone watch cricket."


The influential Free Media Movement (FMM), which consists of
journalists and rights activists in Sri Lanka, recently rapped
Amnesty's use of the tournament saying it could anger moderates
and help the government take a more hardline stance.


The Tamil Tigers, on the other hand, have backed Amnesty's
campaign saying it would raise international awareness among the
majority Sinhalese population about "the brutality of their
government against the Tamil population."


However the Tigers were also rapped again by Amnesty for
continuing to forcibly recruit child soldiers, preventing
civilians from leaving conflict areas and for killing "hundreds
of civilians in summary executions and bomb attacks."


The Tigers have been fighting for a separate state for the Tamil
minority in a bloody war that has claimed more than 60,000 lives
since 1972.

