

Sudan on Wednesday called on the UN to hasten financing for the
latest phase of a Darfur peacekeeping mission, accusing some
member states of wanting non- Africans to be deployed in the war-
torn region.


"The ball is now in the UN's court. The UN must take the decision
to finance the force so that African countries can contribute to
it," Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol said during a visit to
Dubai.


After five months of deliberation, Khartoum on Monday finally
approved the deployment of 3,000 UN personnel -- mostly military
and police staff -- and six attack helicopters in Darfur.


The UN peacekeepers are to provide logistical, communications,
intelligence and air support to 7,000 under-equipped AU troops
that have failed to stem four years of bloody ethnic strife in
the western Sudanese region.


"The African Union has clearly said that if there is a decision
on financing, we (African nations) are ready to supply the
necessary troops," Akol said.


But Akol accused unnamed Security Council members of "seeking to
block the financing." Khartoum has repeatedly accused the UN or
members of its Security Council of wanting to send in
peacekeepers as a neo-colonial exercise.


"Some important (UN) members say that if African countries are
not able to supply the reinforcements, they will have to ask
other countries to enter (Darfur). As a result, they are delaying
the financing," Akol said.


He said that Khartoum preferred African troops because of "their
experience on the ground where they have been for the last two
years (and) because they are close to the traditions and customs
of Sudan."


UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Tuesday urged the 15-member Security
Council to authorise funding for the peacekeeping operation.


"Robust funding and support for this (UN) peacekeeping operation
heavy support package (the 3,000-strong force), as well as AMIS
(the AU force) is crucial," Ban said.


Ban also appealed to African countries to contribute troops both
to the AU force in Darfur as well as to the future joint UN-AU
peacekeeping operation.


"We need the full participation and support of African
countries," he said.


Monday, UN undersecretary general for peacekeeping operations,
Jean-Marie Guehenno, said troops for the hybrid force would come
mainly from Africa but said the UN would look elsewhere if it
could not find enough.


And he said he would confer Thursday with potential troop
contributors to the 3,000-strong interim UN force, which is to
serve under AU command. The troop boost is estimated to cost
around 288 million dollars for a six-month period.


More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been killed and
two million others displaced in Darfur since 2003 when government
forces and allied Janjaweed Arab militias began fighting with
rebel groups who had taken up arms in protest at the distribution
of resources.


Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say the death
toll is much higher.

