

India said Wednesday it has raised its forecast for steel
production, which it expects will expand threefold by 2015 as
companies raise output to take advantage of surging domestic and
overseas demand.


"The government had estimated a production capacity of 65 million
tonnes by 2010-2011 but now these estimates have been revised to
80 million tonnes," Steel Secretary R. S. Pandey said.


"Given a conducive mineral policy framework, this country should
be producing 120 million tonnes by 2015-2016 and 180 million
tonnes by 2019-2020," Pandey told the Press Trust of India.


India is currently the world's seventh-largest producer with a
capacity of 44 million tonnes while China is at the top with a
capacity of 418 million tonnes.


India occupied the number eight slot in 2005 and ninth a year
before, Pandey said and added: "We are witnessing an era of
resurgence in the steel sector".


Indian steel producers are adding capacity to feed demand led by
auto makers and construction companies in an economy expanding at
an annual pace of nine percent.


South Korean steel-making giant POSCO has signed an agreement to
set up a  12 -billion-dollar plant in the eastern Indian state of
Orissa which will produce 12 million tonnes by 2020.


The world's largest steelmaker, Arcelor Mittal, in December
signed an agreement with Orissa to build an 8.7-billion dollar
production plant in the ore-rich state.


Indian companies are also expanding overseas to increase their
size and reach.


India's Essar group on Monday said it had signed an agreement to
buy Canadian steelmaker Algoma for 1.58 billion dollars and
earlier this year Tata Steel acquired Anglo-Dutch firm Corus for
13.7 billion dollars.


"Tables have turned and Indian companies are on buying spree
abroad and they are acquiring companies of much bigger size than
theirs," said Pandey, the seniormost bureaucrat in India's steel
ministry.


"We are growing much faster at about 1.5 times what we had
anticipated," he said but rejected fears of a glut in the
domestic market.


"All investors have done their homework.. demand is really going
to shoot up in India," he added.

