

The US marine on trial in absentia over the March 2005 shooting
death of a top Italian secret service agent in Iraq should come
to Rome to testify, a journalist who survived the incident said
Wednesday.


Mario Lozano is accused of "voluntary homicide" over the so-
called "friendly fire" shooting of deputy director of military
intelligence Nicola Calipari near Baghdad airport shortly after
he obtained the release of journalist Giuliana Sgrena from
kidnappers.


The US military has exonerated Lozano, who insists he merely did
his duty in opening fire on the Italians' car. He has said they
ignored warnings to stop and sped toward a checkpoint he was
manning.


"There is no arrest warrant against Lozano and no extradition
demand as he has not been found guilty. He risks nothing by
coming to be a witness at the trial," Sgrena told reporters a day
after the trial started.


"If there is another version of the facts he should come and give
it. He should come to defend himself. One cannot be satisfied
with what he has said in interviews with the American press."


Both sides agree that Lozano fired on the car carrying Calipari
and Sgrena with Andrea Carpani, another secret service officer,
at the wheel. Calipari was killed, while Sgrena and Carpani were
wounded.


Lozano is charged with "voluntary homicide" in Calipari's death,
as well as two counts of intent to kill Sgrena and Carpani.


Calipari, who shielded Sgrena during the shooting, was hailed as
a hero at home and his state funeral was attended by tens of
thousands.


Italian ballistics experts concluded that Carpani was driving at
a normal speed and that US troops gave no warnings before opening
fire. The Italian probe also found that there were no signposts
warning of the checkpoint.


Sgrena, of the left-wing Il Manifesto newspaper, alleged the US
military had conspired to create an incident and that Lozano was
a patsy.


"I don't think that he is the main culprit in this affair. I
don't want him to become a fall guy. I want a real confontation
with the truth," she said.


"The conditions were created (by the Americans) for an incident
to occur."


For his part, Lozano broke two years of public silence earlier
this month when he told the New York Post that Sgrena's vehicle
was moving at speed towards his checkpoint.


"If you hesitate, you come home in a box -- and I didn't want to
come home in a box. I did what any soldier would do in my
position," Lozano said.


"You have a warning line, you have a danger line, and you have a
kill line," he said. "Anyone inside 100 meters (yards) is already
in the danger zone ... and you've got to take them out."

