

Visiting US Secretary of Defence Robert Gates on Wednesday
painted a dire scenario of the consequences of a meltdown in Iraq
as he urged Egypt to help the Baghdad regime.


In a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Cairo focused
on US-Egyptian ties and "the security challenges facing us in the
Gulf region," Gates emphasised the common need to help Iraq.


Whatever prior disagreements there are over US policy in the
region, "the consequences of a failed state in Iraq -- of chaos
there -- will adversely impact the security and prosperity of
every nation in the Middle East and Gulf region," Gates said.


A total collapse in Iraq "will be felt in capitals and
communities in the Middle East well before they are felt in
Washington or New York.


"The forces that would be unleashed -- of sectarian strife, of an
emboldened extremist movement with access to sanctuaries -- do
not recognize or respect national boundaries."


Concerning Iran, "it is no secret that, as a private citizen, I
advocated for dialogue on some issues," Gates said.


He was referring to his role as member of the bipartisan
commission headed by former secretary of state James Baker and
former Democratic congressman Lee Hamilton that issued
reccomendations in late 2006 on US policy in Iraq.


But Washington and its allies "should have no illusions" about
the Iranian regime -- "or about their designs for their nuclear
program, their intentions for Iraq, or their ambitions in the
Gulf region," Gates said.


Washington has accused Tehran of funding anti-US insurgents in
Iraq and supplying them with lethal weapons.


Gates described Egypt as "one of America's most important, even
indispensable, partners."


He added: "It is well in keeping with Egyptian historic tradition
of providing leadership in the Arab world," Gates said. "It is
unlikely that progress can be made on the most pressing isues of
today without Egypt's full engagement, support and leadership."


Gates also reassured his audience that, despite the heated debate
in the United States over the Iraq war, US ties with Egypt are
"vital and enduring."


"Our own security and prosperity is closely linked to the
security and prosperity in this part of the world," he said.


Egypt will receive more than one billion dollars in US military
aid this year, Gates said.


Egypt will host a gathering of ministers of Iraq's neighbors in
Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3 and 4. The event will include five of
Iraq's six neighbours -- Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Syria and
Turkey -- plus Bahrain, Egypt, the Arab League, the Organisation
of Islamic Conference and the United Nations.


Iran has not confirmed its participation.


Gates was in Jordan on Monday and Tuesday on a Middle East trip
aimed at countering growing Iranian influence in the region and
at seeking support for Iraq. He will next travel to Israel.

