

French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen alluded on Wednesday to
rumours of marital troubles between right-wing presidential
frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy and his wife Cecilia.


"I am pretty surprised that the press is not curious these days
about Mrs Sarkozy, who could become France's first lady," Le Pen
said in an interview, four days ahead of the first round of
voting.


Le Pen alleged in the interview that "Paris is abuzz" with
rumours about the couple, and that it would be a sign of "normal
curiosity" for the press to take an interest.


Sarkozy's relationship with Cecilia made headlines when the
couple split up for several months early last year. They were
reunited in the spring of 2006, but Cecilia has been noticeably
absent from Sarkozy's side during the campaign.


"I see that reverential fear sparks caution in people who usually
have no qualms in launching rumours, even baseless ones," Le Pen
told RMC radio and BFM-TVM television.


Cecilia, 48, has been closely associated with her husband's rise
to fame, acting as his advisor and the head of his private
office.


But Sarkozy, 52, has said little about the role his wife of 11
years, with whom he has a son, Louis, would play if he is
elected. A second round is set for May 6.


"People elect a candidate, they do not elect a family," Sarkozy
said last week.


"If I am elected, my wife will play a role, that's obvious," he
said, adding that he would wait until after the election to
clarify what that role might entail.


Cecilia attended Sarkozy's formal selection by the ruling Union
for a Popular Movement in January, but has played no public role
in his campaign, although Sarkozy's staff say she drops in on his
Paris headquarters each week.


Asked about Cecilia's absence from his side early this month,
Sarkozy replied: "When we saw too much of her, I was reproached
for it. Now that we have drawn the lessons from the past, I am
asked questions."


Sarkozy publicly admitted in a television interview last May that
he was going through marital problems, after French media
reported on the details of Cecilia's affair with an adverstising
executive.


Although the French press traditionally keeps a respectful
distance from the private lives of politicians, gossip tabloids
have justified their coverage of Sarkozy's marital woes, saying
he had used his marriage as an asset by posing for regular
magazine articles.

