

A Beirut court on Wednesday adjourned until next month a hearing
for six Lebanese accused of plotting to bomb trains in Germany
last July after the defence requested more time.


About 20 minutes after the hearing opened under tight security at
the Beirut criminal court, Judge Michel Abu Arraj decided to
adjourn the hearing until May 10.


The defence argued at the opening of trial a week ago that the
Beirut court was not entitled to try four suspects in Lebanese
custody, insisting that they should be tried in northern Lebanon
where they live and where they were arrested on September 4.


The four men in the dock are suspected mastermind Jihad Hamad,
22, as well as Khaled al-Hajj Dib, 19, Ayman Hawwa, 22, and
Khalil Bubu, 23, judicial sources said.


Bubu is also facing another trial for links in a bomb attack on a
Lebanese army barracks in Beirut last year.


At the opening of the trial last Wednesday, the Beirut court also
issued arrest warrants for Saddam al-Hajj Dib, who remains at
large, and his brother Yusef Mohammed al-Hajj Dib, who is in
custody in Germany. Both are being tried in abstentia.


While Yusef Mohammed al-Hajj Dib is being detained on a German
arrest warrant, the court in Beirut decided to issue a Lebanese
arrest warrant.


All six are being tried for "an attempt to carry out mass killing
in two passenger trains in Germany on July 31 by using incendiary
materials confiscated by German authorities," a judicial source
said.


If found guilty, the four suspects in custody could be jailed for
a maximum period of 15 years while those in abstentia could
receive longer prison terms.


Hamad has confessed under judicial interrogation to having placed
a suitcase containing explosives on a train in Germany last July,
Lebanese judicial sources said.


"The intention was not to kill people, but to avenge any harm
done to Muslims after the publication in Denmark of cartoons that
were harmful to the Prophet Mohammed," Hamad was quoted as
saying.


German federal police said the publication of cartoons of the
Prophet Mohammed in Western and some Arab media had been the
"detonator" which pushed the gang to organise a plot to bomb
German trains on July 31.


The plan failed when bombs concealed on two regional trains did
not explode because of faulty detonators.


German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung said last week that bomb-
building instructions had been found on a deleted hard disk of a
laptop computer which Hamad had taken with him from Germany to
Lebanon.

