

Serbia embarked on a top-level diplomatic drive Wednesday to
shore up support of countries like Russia and China to scuttle
plans to grant Kosovo independence.


Serbian leaders were seeking to take advantage of visits by the
foreign ministers of Russia and Austria, Sergei Lavrov and Ursula
Plassnik, as well as Chinese Deputy Prime Minister Hui Liangyu.


The three, in Belgrade for regional conferences, were to hold
talks over the next two days with Serbian President Boris Tadic,
Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and Foreign Minister Vuk
Draskovic.


The diplomatic offensive comes at a crucial time ahead of a UN
Security Council debate on a plan by UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari to
give the southern Serbian province of Kosovo internationally
supervised independence.


Kosovo has been run by a UN mission under Resolution 1244, which
was passed by the Council in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped
to end a bloody Serbian crackdown on Kosovo's majority ethnic
Albanians.


Kosovo Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent of the
province's two million people, have become increasingly impatient
for independence.


Their demands are opposed by Belgrade and most Serbs, who see the
province as the cradle of their history, culture and Orthodox
Christian religion.


Following a meeting with Kostunica, Liangyu said China's position
was clear and in favour of respecting Resolution 1244, according
to a statement from the Serbian prime minister's office.


"Liangyu pointed out that China opposes an imposed solution for
Kosovo and is against setting deadlines for finding a solution,
adding that a compromise solution for Kosovo must be found
through negotiations of the two sides, Belgrade and Pristina,"
said the statement.


"Liangyu stressed that only a compromise solution acceptable for
both sides could contribute to the preservation of the peace and
stability in the region."


Serbia's political leadership was angered Tuesday after US Under
Secretary of State Nicholas Burns said Washington plans to co-
sponsor a new resolution paving the way for Kosovo's
independence.


"If Kosovo gets independence, European stability will be
jeopardised. Serbia will never recognise the independence of
Kosovo," President Tadic said at the opening of a conference of
Danube River countries.


"In the coming months Belgrade should make key decisions and it
is not alone in that. All of us should make a decision that will
influence the lives of all of us," Tadic said as quoted by state-
run Tanjug news agency.


The Ahtisaari plan unveiled last month proposes giving Kosovo
self-governance, a constitution, flag and anthem, and
guaranteeing the rights of its minority Serbs.


The proposal must be backed by nine of the Security Council's 15
members but can be blocked by any of its veto-wielding permanent
members.


It has been publicly won the support of three -- the United
States, Britain and France -- but opposed by Russia and China.


Serbian Foreign Minister Draskovic indicated Belgrade had won the
backing of Russia, China and five non-permanent members and that
a diplomatic "battle" was being fought for the sixth vote.


"Countries that support Ahtisaari's plan are conducting a huge
diplomatic offensive, using various methods of their power to
ensure the sixth vote among non-permanent members of the UN
Security Council and that is the battle scene right now,"
Draskovic said as quoted by Beta news agency.

