

Polish football fans and officials burst into enthusiastic cheers
after the announcement from Cardiff that Poland and Ukraine will
jointly host the Euro 2012 championships, and said winning the
bid would hoist Polish football to new heights.


"White and reds, can't be beat!" shouted a group of ardent fans
that had gathered in the shadow of the communist-era Palace of
Culture in central Warsaw to watch the announcement, broadcast
live on a large television screen.


Poland and its eastern neighbour Ukraine beat Italy and joint
bidders Hungary and Croatia to win the right to host the
quadrennial tournament involving the continent's top nations.


"This is a huge chance for Poland.


"It will be our chance to show we are capable of organising large
sports events like world championships or even the Olympics,"
Przemyslaw Gosiewski, an aide to Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw
Kaczynski, said from a gym where he had watched the ceremony from
Cardiff with a group of students.


"This is our passport to enter the club of elite countries,"
added Gosiewski, draped for the occasion in a white and red
football scarf, in Poland's national colours.


Pawel Malanowski, a 23-year-old supporter of Warsaw flagship side
Legia, said winning the bid would help Polish football better
compete with the continent's top sides like Germany, Italy,
France and England.


"This is great," the young fan said outside the Palace of Culture
-- a "gift" to Poland from Soviet dictator, Joseph Stalin.


"Poland was 'outside' Europe for decades. We've been part of
Europe again for 15 years, and that's a really big chance for
young people. Thanks to things like Euro 2012, we'll be the
equals of countries like England, and that really matters for
us," Malanowski told AFP.


"And it's even more important for the Ukrainians. They have more
problems there, so I hope it'll be a big opportunity for them to
join Europe too."


Poland's national team coach, Dutchman Leo Beenhakker, urged
government and sports officials to get down to work in preparing
for the prestigious competition.


"It means a lot for Polish football and I am very happy,"
Beenhakker, who took over as trainer of the Polish national squad
after its disastrous World Cup campaign last year, said on TVP 3
public television.


"The government and federation have to start working to create
better infrastructure, better stadiums and training facilities.
That is the most important task for Polish football at the
moment," Beenhakker said.


It will be the first time that either Poland or Ukraine have
hosted a major football championship, and the two countries have
pledged to do the necessary work to bring their infrastructure up
to scratch.


Polish Transport Minister Jerzy Polaczek last week said that
around 26 billion euros (35 billion dollars), including EU
financing, have been earmarked to upgrade Poland's
infrastructure.


"Road, rail and air projects will get more than 19 billion
euros," which will be topped up with Polish government money,
Polaczek said at a joint press conference last week with Regional
Development Minister Grazyna Gesicka and Lipiec.


Critics of the Polish-Ukrainian bid had pointed to the vast
distances between the planned venues in the two countries.


Around 2,000 kilometres (1,240 miles) separate Gdansk, in
northern Poland, from Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine, for example.


Only 23 kilometres (14 miles) of that is motorway, and the road
journey currently takes around 22 hours.


Some of Poland's biggest hitters, including former president and
Nobel Peace prize winner Lech Walesa and current head of state,
President Lech Kaczynski, had lobbied UEFA to ensure the
championships were awarded to Poland and Ukraine.


Walesa, who founded the Solidarity Union movement in 1980, which
took on the then Soviet Union-backed regime, said that choosing
the joint bid would clearly signal that the changes that have
taken place in eastern Europe over the past 15 years have been
appreciated by western Europe.

