

Huge differences in the way men and women are treated is costing
the Asia- Pacific region billions of dollars a year, the United
Nations' social and economic arm said on Wednesday.


"Appalling disparities remain" in the region despite some
progress, the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific (UNESCAP) said in its annual report released here.


Restrictions on women's access to employment opportunities cost
the region 42 billion to 47 billion dollars annually while 16 to
30 billion dollars a year are lost because of gender gaps in
education, the report said.


India, which has the lowest female work force participation,
could add a full percentage point a year to its annual growth
rate if the rate of women in work reached parity with the United
States, the report said.


"These are just the economic costs -- added to them are social
and personal costs," the group said.


Female primary school enrolment can be as much as 26 percent
lower than for males, the report said, adding such disparities
were also reflected in access to health.


"Restrictions on women's choices and opportunities carry
significant socio- economic costs at all levels of society," UN
chief Ban Ki-Moon said in a foreword.


The group also sounded the alarm on the deteriorating female-to-
male ratio in the population, particularly in North and Central
Asia, South Asia and the Pacific island nations.


This partly reflected women's inadequate access to health
services.


In some countries one in every 10 girls dies before the age of
one and one in every 50 women dies during pregnancy and delivery.


"Meanwhile violence against women continues unabated, indicating
how voiceless women are in households and in countries," the
report said.


The report said that one of the basic reasons women face
discrimination is that they do not have a voice in decision-
making at home or in society, even when the matters are directly
related to themselves.


"They are powerless intellectually, materially and politically,
the report said.


In the region, only seven countries had parliaments in which more
than 20 percent of representatives were women, with New Zealand
enjoying the highest rate at 28 percent.

