

A spate of car bombings slaughtered at least 53 Iraqis in Baghdad
on Wednesday, leaving behind a wake of destruction in the latest
defiance of a massive Iraqi- US security crackdown in the
capital.


The deadliest attack killed 28 people when a car bomb exploded
near an Iraqi army checkpoint in Baghdad's Shiite slum of Sadr
City, security officials said.


An additional 44 people were wounded when the vehicle exploded
near a main square, hitting civilians, defence and security
officials said.


The crowded district has long been infamous as a bastion of
militia faithful to radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr and has
frequently been targeted by car bombings blamed on Sunni
extremists.


Another 10 civilians were killed when a car bomb exploded on a
main road near a private hospital in the central Karrada
district, formerly upmarket but fallen on hard times since the
2003 US-led invasion.


Security officials confirmed women and children were among the
casualties in the Shiite district with a sizeable Christian
minority.


An official at the interior ministry said 10 people died and 12
were wounded, although an official at the defence ministry put
the number of dead at 11 civilians with another 13 people
wounded.


A car rigged with explosives and parked near a market in the
downtown district of al-Sadriyah, home to a mixed Kurdish and
Shiite population, killed another eight people and wounded 26
others, a defence official said.


Markets are favourite targets for mass bomb attacks, seen as a
trademark tactic of Sunni extremists bent on slaughtering
Shiites, the majority community in Iraq who today heads the
government and dominates the security forces.


American officials openly recognise that lethal bombings remain a
major scourge in Baghdad, despite the more than two month
security crackdown that has deployed tens of thousands of troops
into the capital's streets.


On the western outskirts of Baghdad, a suicide bomber blew up his
car targeting a police patrol, killing four policemen and
wounding six civilians, a security official in the defence
ministry said.


In another attack, a bomb hidden in a parked car killed three
civilians and wounded five in the central Al-Jhumuriyah district,
the official added.

