

Surging crowds of protestors on Wednesday disrupted
constitutional court hearings on Ukraine's political crisis, as
the country's prime minister signaled readiness to compromise in
his power struggle with the president.


Opposing groups of protestors besieged the Kiev courthouse,
briefly preventing judges from starting a second day of
deliberations before riot police cleared away the demonstrators.


Several officials could be seen climbing a metal fence to gain
entry and the Interfax news agency reported that two judges used
ladders to get into the building.


The country's highest court is intervening in a standoff between
President Viktor Yushchenko and Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych
over the president's attempt to disband parliament and call new
elections.


Pro-Western Yushchenko accuses Russian-backed Yanukovych of
undermining his rule, but Yanukovych has refused to comply with
the decree dissolving parliament, saying it violates the
constitution.


The court hearings were being closely watched by outside powers,
anxious about the political direction of this country of 47
million people located between the European Union and NATO to the
west and Russia to the east.


Both Yushchenko and Yanukovych have said they want the dispute to
be solved peacefully and will respect the decision of the court.


However, accusations of bribery and other dirty tricks have been
rife throughout the long-running rivalry between the president
and premier, and five constitutional court judges have requested
bodyguards after complaining of coming under pressure.


Yanukovych emphasised Wednesday that he was ready to negotiate
with his political nemesis. "I think that we have not exhausted
all possibilities for dialogue and finding a compromise," he was
quoted as saying by Interfax.


During a trip to meet EU leaders in Brussels on Tuesday,
Yushchenko meanwhile said that he excluded the use of force.


It was unclear exactly what triggered the disturbance outside the
court, although flag-waving supporters of both Yushchenko and
Yanukovych were among the thousands massed in front of the
building.


Supporters of the pro-Russian government were in the majority,
holding banners scolding Yushchenko: "President, respect the
constitution."


Others chanted Yanukovych's name and threw water bottles and
potatoes at the court.


Supporters of the pro-Western president, who want the court to
uphold his decree, were also involved in the blockade.


The court has not said when it will deliver a ruling.


The court's chairman, Ivan Dombrovsky, warned Tuesday of a
potentially lengthy wait as details of the case are pinned down,
but observers did not rule out an early decision.


Yushchenko came to power in the 2004 Orange Revolution, a series
of huge peaceful protests against what election observers said
was Yanukovych's fraudulent victory in presidential elections.


New elections were held and Yushchenko won. Since then, the
president's popularity ratings have plummeted and following
parliamentary polls last year Yanukovych made a come-back as
prime minister.

