

Britain has the worst level of drug abuse in Europe, and the
second highest level of drug-related deaths, a report said
Wednesday.


The value of trade in illegal drugs is estimated at five billion
pounds (7.3 billion euros, 10 billion dollars) a year, according
to the study by Professor Peter Reuter of Maryland University in
the US and Alex Stevens of Kent University in Britain.


The study showed that around a quarter of 26 to 30 year-olds have
tried "class A" banned drug such as heroin or cocaine at least
once, and around 45 percent of young people have used cannabis.


Overall, Britain has the highest number of addicts with 0.85
percent of the population -- more than twice that of European
countries such as France and Sweden (0.4 percent) or Germany and
the Netherlands (0.3 percent).


The lowest rates of drug abuse are in Poland and Germany, said
the study.


In terms of deaths linked to drug abuse, Britain comes second
only to Denmark -- although both are well behind the United
States and Australia. France has the lowest number of acute drug-
related deaths.


Drugs are cited in the deaths of 34 people per million of
Britain's adult population.


The British government has underlined its commitment to fighting
drug abuse.


"We are determined to continue tackling drug misuse through
enforcement, education, early intervention and treatment," Home
Office Minister Vernon Coaker said.


He said Britain was spending "unparalleled sums" on drugs
strategy "which has been vindicated by record numbers of people
in drug treatment and significant falls in drugs misuse and drug
related crime.


"We are proud of our record and intend to build on our success,"
he said.


However, the new report was scathing about efforts to cut drug
abuse through education.


"There is little international or UK evidence to suggest that
drug education and prevention have had any significant impact on
drug use," it said.


Its authors urged the government to focus efforts more on
developing treatment and harm reduction programmes, which it said
had been shown to reduce levels of crime, ill-health and death
linked to drugs.

