

Nowhere in the labyrinth of legal minutae that is the America's
Cup rules book is there a section on boats enlisting help from
above which is just as well as South Africa's Team Shosholoza
claim to have a hotline to heaven.


The service provider to the link to the Almighty is Archbishop
Desmond Tutu, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate who has taken to his
role as Shosholoza's patron with infectious enthusiasm.


After match race wins against France's Areva Challenge and United
Team Germany in an America's Cup preliminary regatta last year
the team received the following e-mail, signed simply 'Arch':


"Yippee and Yippee again. Is this our second victory? WOW and
double WOW. Much love and blessings, Arch. Patron of Shosholoza."


After another match win against the China Team's Son of Dragon
Shosholoza faced a crucial race against Italy's Mascalzone
Latino, and wrote to their patron asking for his help.


Within three hours the team had a reply: "I'll say a special
prayer for you all on Wednesday. I'm in the US staying at a
monastery so I certainly will have a hotline! Good luck and God
bless you all, Arch."


In the end Shosholoza lost out by a mere four seconds to the
Italians having had to execute a 270 degree penalty turn
prompting the following eclesiastical e-mail: "I'm still using
the hotline; that's why we lost by only very small margins for a
relatively inexperienced crew! Well done. Arch. Patron
Shosholoza."


The team's founder, captain Salvatore Sarno, commenting on his
boat's association with the man who coined the phrase the Rainbow
Nation to describe post-apartheid South Africa, said: "I am a
believer and for me the Archbishop is someone very close to God.


"I am convinced that Team Shosholoza has the protection of God
and this is why we have asked him to help us through our hurdles
to the America's Cup next year."


As a back up just in case anything goes wrong with Archbishop
Tutu's hotline Sarno has also enlisted the services of a Spanish
bishop who blessed the boat's new mast at a ceremony at
Valencia's Port America's Cup.


An Italian who has made South Africa his home for the past 20
years Sarno has put together a predominately South African crew
that has punched above its weight for Cup first timers to put
itself in with a very real chance of scraping through to the
semi-finals of the Louis Vuitton Cup.


The team draws its name Shosholoza, not from someone struggling
to speak after one too many, but from a haunting miner's song
that has a special place deep in the roots of African culture and
which loosely translated means 'moving forward'.


And that is precisely what it's done since its launch back in
2003 leaving Brad Butterworth, America's Cup defender Alinghi's'
skipper, for one impressed.


"On a good day this team can beat anyone," said the New
Zealander.


For Sarno Team Shosholoza - which cuts a distinctive presence
with its xulu markings - represents the chance to bring South
Africa to Europe.


"We have the opportunity to show the new face of South Africa, a
democratic, modern country - more than 10 years after the end of
apartheid - where people of all races and colour work together
successfully.


"This young country is undergoing great changes and I want to
show this to the whole of Europe."

