

Conservationists attending a conference in Nepal on the world's
dwindling tiger population appealed to China Wednesday not to
lift a ban on the trade in tiger parts.


With less than 5,000 tigers worldwide left in the wild, Beijing
has argued it is under increasing pressure from wealthy tiger
farm owners to lift the 1993 ban on the trade and start selling
captive bred tigers.


"Strong petitions" have been made to Beijing to decriminalise the
trade in tiger parts, said Wang Weisheng, a Chinese government
conservation official at the conference.


Tiger body parts have been used for centuries in traditional
Chinese medicine, but the criminalisation of the trade in parts
has been successful in reducing poaching, conservationists said.


"The Chinese medical trade was initially the main threat to
tigers in the wild, but since the market closed in 1993, tigers
have been slowly recovering," Kristin Nowell, Asian big cat
coordinator for TRAFFIC the wildlife trade monitoring network of
the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF), told AFP.


China has yet to make a decision on whether to lift the ban on
trade in tiger parts, and the government would make their
decision "based on scientific purpose, and not based on the
political purpose," said Weisheng.


Conservationists are concerned that the owners of the two largest
farms that each have over 1,000 big cats are pressuring Beijing
to lift the ban. Beijing has said it has around 5,000 tigers in
captivity in the country.


"The owners of China's two largest tiger farmers are very
politically connected. They are the ones putting the pressure on
the government," Kristin Nowell, Asian big cat coordinator for
TRAFFIC the wildlife trade monitoring network of the Worldwide
Fund for Nature (WWF), told AFP.


"The risks are just too great if you reopen the trade, even if
you try to limit it strictly to captive bred animals," said
Nowell, the TRAFFIC big cat expert.


"This would send a signal to poachers around the world that the
trade is on again and its very difficult to distinguish whether a
tiger bone comes from a captive animal or a wild one," he said.


The two-day Global Tiger Forum has seen delegates from seven
countries arrive in Nepal's capital to discuss how best to
preserve dwindling wild tiger populations.

