

The enormity and rapid growth of China's exports and imports are
shaking up trade patterns in the Asia Pacific region, the United
Nation's economic and social arm said Wednesday.


But while cheaper made-in-China goods are a major threat to other
Asian exporters in the international market, there are also huge
opportunities to sell to the giant nation, the UN Economic and
Social Commission for the Asia Pacific (UNESCAP) said in its
annual report on the region.


"China's size and the rapid growth of its exports and imports are
reshaping trade patterns in the Asia Pacific region," UNESCAP
said.


It noted that China, which accounts for seven percent of global
trade, is now the world's third-largest trading nation after the
United States and Germany.


Chinese goods flooding the global market pose "stiff competition"
to its neighbours as Asian countries have their top 10 exports
overlapping with China- made items, it said.


The exports of high-income economies Japan, South Korea and
Singapore overlap with those of China in electrical machinery and
equipment, as well as machinery and appliances, the study said.


Low-income Mongolia competes with China in clothing and knitted
clothes, it said.


Loh Wah Sing, chief executive of the government's International
Trade Institute of Singapore, said countries like Singapore must
be nimble in order to meet China's challenges.


The tiny city-state had to move away from low-end manufacturing
into wafer fabrication, production of oil rigs and other high-end
industries.


"We have to go up the value chain... As long as we can change for
the better we're fine. Change is the constant in our lives," Loh
said.


Alongside the challenge posed by Chinese exports, UNESCAP said
the country's burgeoning imports also present opportunities.


China is the world's biggest importer of logs and also buys
agricultural products and other natural resources from overseas,
UNESCAP said, citing Indonesia, Mongolia and Russia among the
suppliers.


Japan, South Korea and Singapore can supply China's need for
high-tech products, it said.

