

Polish fans and officials were celebrating on Wednesday after the
announcement that Poland and Ukraine will jointly host the Euro
2012 championships.


"White and reds (Polish colours), can't be beat!" shouted a group
of ardent fans that had gathered in the shadow of the communist-
era Palace of Culture in central Warsaw to watch a live broadcast
from Cardiff of the UEFA announcement of the bid.


Poland and its eastern neighbour Ukraine beat Italy and joint
bidders Hungary and Croatia to win the right to host the
quadrennial tournament that will bring together Europe's 16 best
footballing nations.


"I am very happy," Polish President Lech Kaczynski said from
Cardiff, where he had travelled with Ukrainian President Viktor
Yushchenko to make an 11th-hour pitch for their joint bid.


"We must not forget the enormity of the task of organising Euro
2012, but that is also excellent news for Poland. There will be
new stadiums built in Warsaw, Gdansk, Wroclaw and Poznan. That
can only be seen in a positive light," Kaczynski said.


"Five years is long enough and I am sure that with the
mobilisation and determination of the local authorities and the
people, we will succeed."


Przemyslaw Gosiewski, an aide to Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw
Kaczynski, said from a Warsaw gym where he had watched the
televised ceremony from Cardiff with a group of students, that
winning the championships was "our chance to show we are capable
of organising large sports events like world championships or
even the Olympics."


Pawel Malanowski, a 23-year-old supporter of Warsaw flagship side
Legia, said winning the bid would help Polish football to compete
with the top European nations like Germany, Italy, France and
England as well as cement the country's return to the European
political fold two decades since the fall of communism.


"This is great," the young fan said outside the Palace of Culture
-- a "gift" to Poland from Soviet dictator, Joseph Stalin, during
the post-World War II communist era.


"Poland was 'outside' Europe for decades. We've been part of
Europe again for 15 years, and that's a really big chance for
young people. Thanks to things like Euro 2012, we'll be the
equals of countries like England, and that really matters for
us," Malanowski told AFP.


"It's even more important for the Ukrainians. They have more
problems there, so I hope it'll be a big opportunity for them to
join Europe too."


Polish national team coach, Dutch national Leo Beenhakker, urged
government and sports officials to get down to work to prepare
for the prestigious competition.


"The government and federation have to start working to create
better infrastructure, better stadiums and training facilities.
That is the most important task for Polish football at the
moment," Beenhakker, who took over as Polish trainer after its
disappointing World Cup campaign last year, said on TVP 3 public
television.


It will be the first time that either Poland or Ukraine have
hosted a major football championship, and the two countries have
pledged to do the necessary work to bring their infrastructure up
to scratch.


Polish Transport Minister Jerzy Polaczek last week said that
around 26 billion euros (35 billion dollars), including EU
financing, have been earmarked to upgrade Poland's
infrastructure.


"Road, rail and air projects will get more than 19 billion
euros," which will be topped up with Polish government money,
Polaczek told reporters last week.


It currently takes some 22 hours to make the 2,000-kilometre
(1,240-mile) journey by road from Gdansk in northern Poland --
one of four Polish Euro 2012 host cities -- to Donetsk in eastern
Ukraine. Only 23 kilometres (14 miles) of the trip is on
motorway.


Some of Poland's biggest hitters, including former president and
Nobel Peace prize winner Lech Walesa and current head of state
Kaczynski, had lobbied UEFA to ensure the championships were
awarded to Poland and Ukraine.


Walesa, who founded the Solidarity Union movement in 1980, which
took on the then Soviet Union-backed regime, said that choosing
the joint bid would clearly signal that the changes that have
taken place in eastern Europe over the past 15 years have been
appreciated by western Europe.

