

The 23-year-old South Korean gunman who committed the deadliest
school shooting in US history was a disturbed, isolated man whose
gory writings troubled his classmates and teachers.


Cho Seung-Hui moved to the United States when he was eight, and
was in his final year of studying English at Virginia Tech
university, where he gunned down at least 30 students on Monday
before fatally shooting himself.


Fellow students described Cho as a loner who rarely spoke in
class and whose writings opened a window onto an unstable and
violent mind. His former roommate told CNN news that Cho had
appeared to "stalk" women on campus.


"When I first heard about the multiple shootings ... my first
thought was about my friends, and my second thought was 'I bet it
was Seung Cho,'" said Ian MacFarlane, a former classmate of Cho's
who posted two of the killer's plays online.


He was "a loner, obsessed with violence, and serious personal
problems," MacFarlane said in an article on aol.com next to links
to the two plays, "Richard McBeef" and "Mr. Brownstone."


In the end, his writings may serve as his last testament and
offer the only clues to his motive.


One of his plays describes a 13-year-old boy's escalating fight
with his stepfather. "I hate him. Must kill Dick. Must kill Dick.
Dick must die." The boy stuffs a cereal bar down his stepfather's
throat. Then, the elder man "lifts his large arms and swings a
deadly blow."


The other play tells of a crew of 17-year-olds who skip school to
gamble at a casino and fantasize about killing their professor.
"I wanna watch him bleed like the way he made us kids bleed,"
says one character.


"I contacted some people to try to get some help for him because
I was deeply concerned," Lucinda Roy, one of Cho's teachers,
said.


Stephanie Derry, who studied playwriting with Cho, told the
school newspaper, Collegiate Times, that the gunman's dramas were
"really morbid and grotesque" and that other students used to
joke about his creepy work.


"It was his lack of behavior that really set him apart," Derry
said. "He basically just kept to himself, very isolated."


Police found prescription medications for depression in Cho's
room.


ABC news and the Chicago Tribune reported Tuesday that Cho left a
long, rambling note in his dormitory room, railing against "rich
kids," "debauchery" and "deceitful charlatans" on campus.


"You caused me to do this," he wrote.


Police suspect Cho first killed two people at a campus dormitory,
then returned to his own dorm to write the note, re-arm and then
storm the classroom building. There, he chained shut the doors
and stalked from room to room killing 30 people and himself.


Cho was among the 2,000 foreigners from more than 110 countries
attending the 26,000-student university in Blacksburg, Virginia.
He lived with his family in a three-story beige townhouse in
Centreville, Virginia, near Washington.


South Korean news reports said Cho's family lived a tough life in
South Korea before they emigrated to the United States in search
of the American dream.


He was a "very quiet and well-behaved" boy when he lived with his
family in a modest rented apartment in northern Seoul before the
family left for the United States in 1992, their former landlord
told Yonhap news agency.


His family runs a dry cleaning business and his sister graduated
from the elite Princeton University.


He had shown recent signs of violent, aberrant behavior,
including setting a fire in a dorm room, the Chicago Tribune
said, citing an unnamed source involved in the investigation.


The lone gunman is the most common profile for a mass murderer,
someone who is "isolated, reclusive and antisocial" said Alan
Langlieb, director of workplace psychiatry at Johns Hopkins
University.


"It's not exactly clear what snaps," he said. "Some of it is
premeditated, but a person could wake up that day and decide,
'I'm going to create social havoc.'"

