

At least 32 workers were killed and two injured Wednesday when
they were buried in white-hot molten steel at a metal factory in
northeast China, the government said.


The mishap was triggered when a 30-tonne-capacity steel ladle
sheared off from the blast furnace, spilling liquid metal onto
the factory floor three metres (three yards) below.


The molten steel engulfed an adjacent room where workers had
gathered for a routine shift change, the State Work Safety
Administration said.


Rescuers were unable to get closer because of the intense heat
emitted from the "white-hot" liquid metal which rose to a searing
1,500 degrees Centigrade (2,732 degrees Fahrenheit), according to
state-run Xinhua news agency.


The accident at Qinghe Special Steel Corp in Liaoning province
highlights China's dismal industrial safety record, and came as
the government prepares to announce Thursday yet another double-
digit expansion of the nation's booming economy in the first
quarter of 2007.


It happened at about 7:45 am local time (2345 GMT Tuesday) in a
factory workship located in Tieling, a city of about three
million people in China's industrial heartland.


An official at the Qinghe crematorium in Tieling told AFP by
phone that families of victims had gathered to view their loved
ones, but police were refusing to allow them in until the bodies
were identified.


"They are going to have to identify the bodies through DNA
testing because the victims were burnt beyond recognition," the
official surnamed Ma said.


"About a dozen family members were outside the crematorium, they
were all crying and sobbing."


Ma said the victims were all local residents of Tieling.


It was unclear how many people were working at the time of the
accident, or whether the workers in the room were ending or
beginning their shifts.


Two machine operators were also injured.


The safety administration said an undisclosed number of
"responsibles" were being investigated.


A steel company official said police had locked down the factory,
usual practice in China when criminal investigations are launched
into industrial accidents.


The safety administration said the factory employed some 300
workers, while Xinhua said the plant was relatively new,
established in 1987, and employed 650 workers.


Last year the factory produced 70,000 tonnes of steel, earning
300 million yuan (38.9 million dollars) in sales, and had hoped
to increase production to 120,000 tonnes this year, the safety
administration report said.


"The provincial and city leaders have arrived to direct the
aftermath," an official at the steel company's office told AFP by
phone.


"The whole area has been blocked off by the police, but we're
still working in the office. Obviously we are all devastated."


The official said it was too early to determine the cause of the
accident.


Industrial accidents occur frequently in China with more than
15,000 work place fatalities recorded in 12,800 mishaps at mines,
companies and factories in 2005, according to government figures.


Currently 47 miners are missing following three mine accidents
this week in the nation's dangerous mining industry.

