

World oil prices fell on Wednesday as US refineries started
coming back on line after a period of maintenance, analysts said.


The market was meanwhile awaiting the release of data on the
health of US gasoline stockpiles in the run-up to the peak-demand
season for motor fuel.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery dropped 58
cents to 65.35 dollars per barrel in London electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, lost 30 cents to 62.80 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


"We are starting to see refineries coming back," said Veronica
Smart, an analyst at the Energy Information Centre in England.


"And there's still some adequate crude oil supplies to convert
into petrol, and the market is taking that into account, that's
why prices are a bit down."


The US Department of Energy was to release its weekly snapshot of
oil stocks on Wednesday, with the market expecting gasoline, or
petrol, stocks to have dropped again last week. Motor fuel
inventories have already fallen for the past five weeks.


Regarding Wednesday's price falls, Tony Nunan of Mitsubishi
Corp's international petroleum business said: "I think the market
has come up quite a bit and people took profit."


However, he said that prices were still receiving support from
concerns over the outlook for US gasoline supplies ahead of the
US summer holiday driving season which gets underway next month.


"The situation in America with gasoline is still very strong,"
Nunan added.


Dealers are watching gasoline inventories closely before the
summer driving season when many Americans take to the highways
for their holidays.


American refineries are presently unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited capacity,
which partly explains the large gap between North American and
European oil prices.


Traders were tracking also geopolitical worries. The world's
fourth biggest oil producer Iran on Wednesday refused to rule out
using crude as a weapon if the standoff with the West over its
nuclear programme intensifies, saying that the Islamic Republic
would use every means if attacked.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran's policy is to supply energy as a
responsibility. We are never seeking to cut the energy supplies
to the world," Oil Minister Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh told an oil
conference in Tehran.


"But naturally every country, which is subject to danger or
attack, should use all its possibilities to defend itself and
this is every country's right," he said.


His comments came in response to a question over whether Iran
would use oil as a weapon if the UN Security Council passed a
third resolution imposing more sanctions against Tehran over the
atomic drive.

