

Iran's oil minister on Wednesday refused to rule out using oil as
a weapon in the standoff with the West over its nuclear
programme, saying that Tehran would use every means if attacked.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran's policy is to supply energy as a
responsibility. We are never seeking to cut energy supplies to
the world," Oil Minister Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh told an energy
conference in Tehran.


"But naturally every country, which is subject to danger or
attack, should use all its possibilities to defend itself and
this is every country's right," he said.


His comments came in response to a question over whether Iran
would use oil as a weapon if the UN Security Council passed a
third resolution imposing more sanctions against Tehran over the
atomic drive.


The United States has refused to rule out the option of military
action over Iran's controversial atomic drive which Washington
says is aimed at making weapons. Iran insists that its nuclear
programme is peaceful.


Analysts have said that Tehran could cause oil prices to surge if
it cut off the Straits of Hormouz, a key shipping strait, which
would trigger a massive disruption in global supplies.


The oil minister's comments came at the opening of Iran's
international oil and gas fair, which the authorities said showed
the Islamic republic's energy industry was in good health despite
the international pressure.


Vaziri-Hameneh said that Iran had won 38 billion dollars worth of
new contracts in oil, gas and petrochemicals in the last Iranian
year ending March 20, of which 14.3 billion dollars were
finalised contacts.


Although Iran would like to reap 20 billion dollars in finalised
contracts this year it would most likely earn a similar amount to
last year, Vaziri-Hameneh said.


He appeared untroubled by pressure from the United States on
European banks to reduce their dealings with Tehran, a move
industry observers believe has made it harder for Iran to invest
in its energy industry.


"So far there has not been much effect. The reason is that we
have been following finalised contracts.


"I do not know what problems will be created in the future but
the government has foreseen solutions. We will use other
facilities and the government and the parliament believes the
projects will be pursued."


First Vice President Parviz Davoodi said the presence of dozens
of European firms at the oil fair showed Iran's energy industry
was fending off any political pressure.


"The countries that pressure us on the sanctions have the most
impressive participation," at the fair, he said, pointing to the
turnout from Britain, Germany and France.


"What is going on in European counties in reality is different
from what their leaders are pursuing. They are pursuing an
imaginary path, while reality lies somewhere else," he said.


Vaziri-Hamaneh meanwhile vehemently denied local media
speculation that his tenure as oil minister could soon be at an
end. "I take no heed of rumours, the president has always
supported me."

