

US Secretary of Defence Robert Gates said Wednesday he had held
talks with President Hosni Mubarak and his Egyptian counterpart
Hussein Tantawi on Middle East peace efforts and weapons sales.


Gates, speaking to reporters after the Cairo meetings with
Mubarak and Defence Minister Tantawi, described the talks as
"wide ranging".


They also spoke about Iraq "at some length, and the need to
support" the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki,
he said.


Gates, who arrived in Egypt a day later than expected after a
sandstorm shut the main airport here on Tuesday, also said the
officials "reviewed the very robust military relationship"
between the two countries.


The United States gives over a billion dollars in military aid to
Egypt every year.


Gates, on a tour of the volatile Middle East that began on Monday
in Amman, also said he discussed with the Egyptian officials
Iran's growing strength in the region.


Iran and the situation in Iraq also featured in his talks with
King Abdullah II in Amman on Tuesday and the topics are sure to
be on the agenda when he meets with Israeli officials on the
third leg of the tour later in the week.


Egypt will host a gathering of ministers of Iraq's neighbors in
Sharm el-Sheikh on May 3 and 4. The event will include five of
Iraq's six neighbours -- Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Syria and
Turkey -- plus Bahrain, Egypt, the Arab League, the Organisation
of Islamic Conference and the United Nations.


Iran has not confirmed its participation. Tehran is demanding the
release of Iranian personnel captured in Iraq. US officials say
the captives are elite Iranian commandos; Iran says they are
diplomats.


Other participants at the event will include Britain, China,
France, Russia and the United States.


"The neighbours conference was an important step," said Gates
earlier in Amman. "Anything that the neighbours can do to help
strengthen the current government of Iraq will be a
contribution."


A senior Defence Department official speaking on condition of
anonymity said ahead of the Cairo stopover that Gates would also
"encourage Egypt to reassert its leadership role" on the Israeli-
Palestinian issue.


The official said discussions would also focus on arms supplies.


The Egyptians are "especially sensitive" to a possible drop in
military aid due to the rise in US expense in Iraq, the Defence
Department official said.


Gates "will reassure them that regardless of the war our
relationship with Egypt is a long one and is one that will
continue."


Concerning military aid, Gates will encourage the Egyptians "to
(make a) transition from the post-Soviet dependency on
conventional weaponry to something more expeditionary, more
related to counter-terrorism and focused on the non- state
actors" in the region, the official said.


The annual US military and economic aid was partly initiated to
reward Egypt for the 1979 peace treaty it signed with Israel.
Since then Egypt has received upwards of 30 billion dollars in US
military assistance.


Egypt, however, is also one of the main sources of foreign
fighters entering Iraq, according to US Major General William
Caldwell, who told reporters in Baghdad that US forces had
"several hundred foreign fighters in captivity ... and the
greatest number come out of Egypt."


The top four main sources of foreign fighters in Iraq are Egypt,
Syria, Sudan and Saudi Arabia, Caldwell said.

