

An opposition boycott threat and bloody clashes with Islamic
militants on Wednesday raised tensions ahead of Nigeria's
presidential election -- the most closely watched poll since
independence.


A group of 18 opposition parties said the national election
commission should be disbanded, and Saturday's presidential
ballot postponed until "transparency and fairness" could be
guaranteed.


They also called for the results to be annulled of last weekend's
regional polls, which were criticised as fraudulent by the
international community and triggered violence that left 20 dead.


If these conditions are not fulfilled, the parties "shall
consider not participating in the (presidential) election," they
said in a statement late Tuesday.


The ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP) insisted that the
elections would go ahead on schedule.


"There will be no postponement. We're not going to stop a
democratic process because of the personal ambitions of one or
two candidates," said John Odey, a PDP external relations
official.


"We will not abandon democracy. The PDP is ready for elections.
The electoral process is credible", he added, insisting that last
weekend's regional polls were "free, fair and transparent".


Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Nigerian troops shot dead 25 heavily
armed members of an Islamist group that had attacked a police
station the previous day in the northern city of Kano, killing 12
police officers and one civilian.


"I understand that our troops killed at least 25 members of the
criminal group terrorising Kano. The operation to flush them out
is still on," said army spokesman Colonel Ayo Olaniyan.


An AFP correspondent saw several hundred residents fleeing the
fighting.


"The entire place is under bombardment. That is why we have to
flee," a resident told AFP.


The Islamist attack on the police station was believed to have
been a bid to avenge the killing of a radical Muslim cleric and
two of his followers in a mosque in a Kano suburb last week.


Saturday's presidential vote is expected to usher in Nigeria's
first civilian-to civilian handover since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1960.


The main challengers to the ruling party candidate, Umaru
Yar'Adua, are Vice President Atiku Abubakar and General Muhamadu
Buhari, a former military ruler.


The election commission initially excluded Abubakar from the
initial list of approved candidates following corruption
allegations. But it was later forced to reversed its decision
after the Supreme Court ruled it had overstretched its powers.


The move was a setback for outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo,
who has been trying to ensure an easy ride for Yar'Adua.


Abubakar has been Obasanjo's deputy since 1999. But a dispute
between the two escalated last August when the president openly
accused his deputy of corruption and had him investigated.


The regional elections last weekend were criticised as fraudulent
by the European Union, the United States and rights watchdogs
such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.

