

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe accused the opposition of
trying to foment anarchy Wednesday as the troubled southern
African nation marked the 27th anniversary of its independence
from Britain.


In a keynote speech at a packed football stadium in Harare,
Mugabe fired a fresh broadside at his foreign critics, including
the former colonial power, and accused opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai of being a puppet of the West.


The celebrations have been overshadowed by an economic meltdown
and mounting political violence but 83-year-old Mugabe said that
he would deal with "conspirators" trying to end his 27-rule with
the full force of the law.


"We have observed how of late this conspiracy has attempted to
transform into a militant, criminal strain, characterised by the
puerile attempts of misguided opposition elements to create a
state of anarchy," Mugabe said.


"As government, our message remains clear: that we will never
hesitate to deal firmly with those elements who are bent on
fomenting anarchy and criminal activities," added Mugabe, who has
been in power since the former Rhodesia gained independence from
Britain on April 18, 1980.


Mugabe, already subject to Western sanctions over allegations
that he rigged his re-election in 2002, has come in for withering
criticism from the United States and the European Union over the
recent arrest and assault on senior members of the Movement for
Democratic Change, including Tsvangirai.


The president, who has previously said that Tsvangirai
effectively asked for his treatment, again swatted away
accusations that he did not tolerate dissent.


"The opposition has all the room for its activities, provided
they act legally. Once they start acting illegally they come up
against the laws of the country," he said.


Tsvangirai was again accused by Mugabe of being used by British
Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush as part
of a so-called campaign to bring about regime change.


"Blair and Bush say they don't recognise the president of
Zimbabwe, they don't recognise the elections of 2002 and then
Tsvangirai says 'yes, I agree with you'. That's where we differ
with Tsvangirai," said Mugabe.


"If only he had ideas to improve the welfare of the people we
would gladly accept those ideas. The only idea he has is that
Mugabe should go and I try Tsvangirai should come in."


Mugabe delivered his speech at a football stadium in Harare's
oldest township Mbare, a traditional stronghold of his ZANU-PF
party where the first independence celebrations were held 27
years ago to the day.


The 35,000-capacity stadium was full and security guards even had
to turn away supporters at the turnstyles.


The crowds repeatedly chanted Gushungo, Gushungo, Mugabe's clan
name. Many also held placards bearing messages of support for the
83-year-old and T-shirts bearing the slogan "Zimbabwe at 27".


Vice President Joyce Mujuru, who has been rumoured to be eyeing
the presidency, was among those in attendance but heads of state
from other southern African countries were noticeable by their
absence.

