

Asian students, under pressure to perform in their home
countries, face the added stress of trying to adapt to an alien
society when they study abroad, educators say.


Cho Seung-Hui, 23, a South Korean who killed 32 students and
staff at his university in the United States on Monday, was one
of hundreds of thousands of Asians studying overseas.


Cho, in his final year of studying English at Virginia Tech,
fatally shot himself at the end of his rampage.


Authorities found few people on campus who knew Cho well, since
he was a loner who rarely spoke in class and whose writings
opened a window onto an unstable and violent mind.


Cho had lived in the United States since he was eight years old
and had time to adapt, but newcomers always faced a challenge,
said Bahtiar Effendy, senior fellow at Singapore's S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies.


"Because they come from a country with a different culture, code
of behaviour, different environment -- everything is different,"
said Effendy, an Indonesian who studied at universities in Ohio
from 1986-1994.


South Koreans accounted for the largest percentage (14.9) of
foreign students in America, the US Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency said in a report this month.


Including elementary and high school students, there were 93,728
South Koreans studying in the US in the fourth quarter last year,
up more than 10 percent since 2004, the agency said.


Those from India and China trailed with 76,708 and 60,850,
respectively, it said.


The American Indonesian Exchange Foundation, attached to the US
embassy in jakarta, said the US was the preferred country for
Indonesian students.


It added that India, China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand
and Hong Kong all sent more students than Indonesia to the US.


Piet Hendradjo, of the foundation, said students were briefed on
American culture and society before they left for the US.


"They have cultural shock but it doesn't last long because they
manage to deal with the differences after one or two months,"
Hendradjo said.


Effendy said he did not feel those studying abroad faced added
pressure from their families to succeed. They simply confronted
normal academic stress and pressure to finish their studies
quickly to avoid mounting expenses, he said.


But many Asian students who have yet to make the leap to a
foreign university are living in a pressure-cooker atmosphere in
their homelands.


According to a survey last year of more than 7,000 Beijing
university students, about 12 percent had "moderate" or more
serious psychological problems, China's state press reported.


Worries about future employment were cited as the primary reason
for the problems.


Japan's schools have long been notorious for bullying, a
phenomenon experts attribute to the intense social pressure to
blend in.


Last year at least four children aged 12 to 14 killed themselves
in a rash of cases after a bullied student sent an anonymous
suicide threat to the education ministry.


Fearing that students were spending too much time learning by
rote and not thinking for themselves, Japan in the 1990s
introduced "relaxed education."


Amid a backlash, conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has
called for more classroom hours and discipline.

