

The rapid ageing of Japan's population is contributing to
widening wealth inequalities that may be an ominous portent for
other Asian nations, a UN report said Wednesday.


"Japan's ageing population and inequality among the elderly is
creating a growing pool of poor and old people," according to an
annual report from the United Nations' Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific.


"Moreover, the widening wage disparity among young people is of
great concern as it reflects a rising number of lower paid non-
regular workers," it added.


Relatively equal income distribution has been a hallmark of
Japan's postwar development.


But Japan's Gini coefficient, a leading measure of inequality,
has been increasingly gradually since the 1980s and is now
growing much faster than the average for major industrialised
nations, the report noted.


"This development is considered as a reflection of changing
demographic and household composition," UNESCAP said.


"Older people typically exhibit wider income inequality within
their own age group because many of them do not receive any wage
income. So an increase in the size of the elderly population
increases the weight of low-income groups."


Almost 20 percent of the Japanese population is now aged 65 or
older, posing a major challenge for the nation's debt-laden
public finances.


Japan's birthrate is hovering at record lows, spelling a
potential future demographic crisis, as more young people decide
that children would be a burden to their careers or lifestyles.


The report warned that the trend could be mirrored in other
countries.


"Japan's challenges may be a signal of what other countries may
have to face in the future: an ageing population; an
unsustainable social security scheme to support the elderly;
economic recessions prompting budget deficits and social spending
on the unemployed," it said.


The proportion of Japanese in relative poverty, defined as having
less than one- half of the median household disposable income,
topped 15 percent in 2000, up from about 12 percent in the mid-
1980s, the report noted.


And the number of Japanese on welfare benefits has increased from
less than 0.6 percent of the population in the mid-1990s to hit
1.2 percent in 2005.

