

Sri Lankan authorities have issued a death threat against a
newspaper editor for reporting on military excesses and human
rights abuses, journalists and a media rights group said
Wednesday.


The editor of Colombo's Daily Mirror, Champika Liyanaarachchi,
said defence secretary Gotabhaya Rajapakse, the younger brother
of President Mahinda Rajapakse, issued the threat in a telephone
conversation Tuesday.


Liyanaarachchi said the president himself telephoned her later
Tuesday to inquire into the threat.


"The president said he will look into it," Liyanaarachchi said.
"There is no way of dismissing the threat."


Media organisations have described Sri Lanka, where the
government is fighting a bitter war against Tamil Tiger
separatist rebels, as the most dangerous place on earth for
journalists after Iraq.


Rights groups say that critics of government policy are treated
as traitors and enemies of the state.


Although there is no formal censorship imposed, Sri Lankan
authorities prevent journalists from travelling to areas held by
the rebels, who are waging a separatist conflict that has killed
more than 60,000 people since 1972.


The Free Media Movement (FMM), which comprises journalists and
rights activists, said Rajapakse had also said that the editor
should not expect any security from the government to protect
her.


"Given the volatile situation in the country, the FMM also fears
that this threat sends a chilling message to the media community
at large in Sri Lanka," the group said.


The Daily Mirror did not report the threat but another paper, the
Morning Leader, said Gotabhaya Rajapakse had "criticised" the
Mirror editor for a series of "anti-government" articles.


Rajapakse is alleged to have telephoned another reporter and
"continued his vicious tirade by castigating the reporter and
expressing his severe displeasure."


"This gross misconduct of a high-placed public official clearly
demonstrates the challenges facing free media in Sri Lanka
today," the FMM said, adding that government leaders and close
allies were pressuring the media.


"The FMM urgently and firmly requests the government to ensure
that loose tongues and wild imaginings of its ministers and
allies are kept in check by educating them on the need to secure
and strengthen free media as a vital foundation of democratic
governance."


The government's spokesman for defence-related matters, Keheliya
Rambukwella said there was no formal complaint about the threat
and therefore the government had no comment.


"If there is a complaint, we will look into it," Rambukwella
said.

