

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan  convened his party's
leadership Wednesday to discuss whether or not he should run for
president in next month's election.


His purported ambition to run for the top job has increased the
tension in Ankara. Secularists argue that the former Islamist,
who now describes himself as a conservative democrat, is not
truly committed to Turkey's fiercely guarded secular system.


Erdogan has refused to say whether he will run for the post, or
when his Justice and Development Party (AKP) will announce its
candidate.


The AKP's candidate is virtually certain to win the race thanks
to the party's comfortable majority in parliament, which elects
the president.


The meeting of the AKP executive board, which is expected to last
until late Wednesday, is seen as an important milestone in
shaping the party's decision. A cabinet meeting is scheduled for
Thursday.


Erdogan has hinted that the party may even wait for the last day
of the registration period, April 25, to announce a candidate. No
one has so far registered.


Secularists have mounted a high-profile campaign against Erdogan.
An estimated 500,000 people rallied in Ankara over the weekend,
chanting secularist slogans and urging the prime minister not to
run for president.


Opponents say that with Erdogan in the presidential palace, the
AKP, which already dominates parliament and local
administrations, will seize the last part of the state machinery
and move to advance its Islamist ambitions.


Along with largely ceremonial duties, the president has the final
word on appointing senior government officials and a one-time
right to reject bills passed by parliament.


The outgoing Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a hardline secularist whose
seven-year term expires on May 16, has often put the brakes on
the AKP.


He has sent back proposed law to parliament laws when he
considered them breaches of the country's secular constitution
and has blocked the appointment of officials he saw as Islamist
government cronies.


The AKP, the offshoot of a now-banned Islamist party, has
disowned its roots, pledged commitment to secularism and carried
out a series of democracy reforms to boost Turkey's bid to join
the European Union.


Nevertheless, it has often come under fire from those who say it
is still pursuing Islamist ambitions.


Erdogan, a practicing Muslim, is strongly opposed to a ban on the
Islamic headscarf in government offices and universities.


But he has failed to abolish it, wary of the secular
establishment that sees the veil as a symbol of political Islam.


His government has also made unsuccessful attempts to criminalise
adultery, restrict places that serve alcohol to special zones and
ease access to universities for graduates of religious high
schools.

