

French presidential contenders on Wednesday appealed to millions
of voters who remain undecided four days ahead of the first round
of voting in what is shaping up as a cliffhanger election.


Rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy remains ahead in most polls, but with
at least one in three voters still to make up their minds, the
candidate said he was fighting for every vote ahead of the poll
on Sunday.


"I am far from believing that the battle is won," said Sarkozy,
the 52-year-old former interior minister, in an interview to Le
Figaro newspaper.


"Quite the opposite, I believe that nothing is decided."


Sarkozy is facing a strong challenge from Socialist rival
Segolene Royal, who wants to become France's first woman
president, while centrist Francois Bayrou could also spring a
surprise from his number three position in the polls.


"There are 17 million undecided voters. They are still
considering (their choice). I see this as a mark of their high
demands," said Royal, a 53-year-old former adviser to president
Francois Mitterrand.


"They know that France is in a bad state. They are perfectly
aware of the debt, deficit, social programmes, unemployment and
they know that the stakes are high and that what will be done in
the coming years will change the face of France in either a
positive or a negative way," she said in a interview to Metro
newspaper.


Royal is trailing Sarkozy in the polls for the first round of
voting but surveys also show that Bayrou stands a stronger chance
of beating Sarkozy in the runoff, set for May 6.


Far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, who shocked France in the
2002 election when he beat Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin and
moved to the runoff against Jacques Chirac, holds the fourth spot
with about 13.5 percent of the vote, according to the latest
Ipsos/Dell survey.


Bayrou, a 55-year-old former education minister who speaks fondly
of growing up in rural France, said he was confident that
undecided voters would ultimately choose him and bring down "the
Berlin Wall" of the left and right political divide.


"A great change is going to happen on Sunday," said Bayrou, whose
poll rating has been holding steady at around 18.5 percent after
a spectacular leap, behind Royal at about 24.5 percent and
Sarkozy at 29.5 percent.


"I am sure that the French people are preparing a surprise, which
is being kept secret, but which will be done in a positive and
constructive spirit unlike 2002," said Bayrou during a campaign
swing in the northern city of Lille.


Former president Valery Giscard d'Estaing, 81, who founded
Bayrou's centrist Union for French Democracy (UDF) party, is due
on Thursday to announce his support for Sarkozy, who has been
accused recently of veering to the right with his tough stance on
immigration and national identity.


Sarkozy defended himself on Wednesday, saying "it would be a
mistake to leave the monopoly on nationhood to Le Pen" and played
down concerns that his high- octane personality inspires more
fear than admiration among voters.


"There has never been an election when the frontrunner has not
been attacked on his personality," said Sarkozy, who is seen as a
divisive figure who has alienated many in the high-immigrant
suburbs with his tough rhetoric.


Making its contribution to the debate over Sarkozy's personality,
the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo released a special edition
featuring the former interior minister under the headline "Vote
for Fear."


But a new Ifop poll showed that Sarkozy was making inroads among
young first- time voters, with 30 percent set to back him,
compared to 23 percent for Bayrou and 22 percent for Royal.


Voters are to choose a successor to 74-year-old President Jacques
Chirac in one of the most unpredictable races in decades.


In all, 12 candidates are running in the first round including
three Trotskyites, a Communist, a Green, anti-globalisation
campaigner Jose Bove, a hunters' rights campaigner and a Catholic
nationalist.

