

Conservationists attending a conference in Nepal on the world's
dwindling tiger population appealed to China Wednesday not to
lift a ban on the trade in tiger parts.


With less than 5,000 tigers worldwide left in the wild, China has
argued it is under increasing pressure from wealthy tiger farm
owners to lift a 1993 ban and start selling captive bred tigers.


"Strong petitions" have been made to Beijing to decriminalise the
trade in tiger parts, said Wang Weisheng, a Chinese government
conservation official at the conference.


Tiger body parts have been used for centuries in traditional
Chinese medicine, but the criminalisation of the trade in parts
has been successful in reducing poaching, conservationists
argued.


"The Chinese medical trade was initially the main threat to
tigers in the wild, but since the market closed in 1993, tigers
have been slowly recovering," Kristin Nowell, Asian big cat
coordinator for TRAFFIC the wildlife trade monitoring network of
the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF), told AFP.


China has yet to make a decision on whether to lift the ban on
trade in tiger parts, and the government would make its decision
"based on scientific purpose, and not based on the political
purpose," Weisheng said.


On Tuesday, delegates to a Tiger Syposium held before the World
Tiger Forum were shocked after one of the owners of China's
largest tiger farms physically attacked a British television news
crew who recently filed a report on banned tiger meat and bone
products for sale at a Chinese tiger farm.


The tiger farm owner did not attend the conference Wednesday.


Conservationists are concerned that the owners of the two largest
farms that each have more than 1,000 big cats are pressuring
Beijing to lift the ban. Beijing has said it has around 5,000
tigers in captivity in the country.


"The owners of China's two largest tiger farmers are very
politically connected. They are the ones putting the pressure on
the government," said Nowell.


"The risks are just too great if you reopen the trade, even if
you try to limit it strictly to captive bred animals," said
Nowell.


"This would send a signal to poachers around the world that the
trade is on again and it's very difficult to distinguish whether
a tiger bone comes from a captive animal or a wild one," he said.


Allowing captive bred tiger parts to be sold would increase the
pressure on the remaining wild animals, said Judy Mills, director
of the Campaign Against Tiger Trafficking (CATT)


If China were to lift the ban on trade in tiger parts "it will
probably recruit new users and among those users will be very
wealthy people who can afford the 'champagne' of tiger bone, and
they will want the bones of wild tigers," Mills told AFP.


"We don't know what will happen if we rekindle demand among 1.3
billion people in China. There is a chance that the remaining
(wild) tigers could be wiped out in a heartbeat," she said.


The trade in tiger parts is a lucrative one. Conservationists say
that while some poachers in India are paid as little as 20
dollars per tiger, in China, illegal whole dead tigers sell for
between 20,000 and 30,000 dollars.


The two-day Global Tiger Forum has seen delegates from seven
countries arrive in Nepal's capital to discuss how best to
preserve dwindling wild tiger populations.

