

Indonesia has approved tin export permits for two more smelters,
including Koba Tin, the nation's second biggest producer, trade
ministry officials said Wednesday.


The market has been awaiting news of Koba Tin's licence, as sales
from the producer could shore up global supplies in the face of
growing demand from the booming economies of China and India.


"The decision was taken in a meeting of Indonesian ministry
representatives and they agreed to issue on April 17 export
permits for the companies," official Partogi told AFP.


Indonesia began closing down unregistered tin operators last year
and implemented stricter export regulations in February that
require firms to register for clearance.


State-linked PT Tambang Timah, the world's largest integrated tin
producer, was one of the few firms that had obtained clearance
under the new regulations.


Indonesia's moves have cut sharply into the global market and
contributed to a rise of about 15 percent in price of tin so far
this year.


Tin surged to a record 15,200 dollars a tonne early Wednesday in
London before retreating.


Indonesia is the world's second largest producer of the metal,
used extensively in electronics and other industries, after
China.


Malaysian Smelting Corp, which owns 75 percent of Koba Tin,
confirmed that the new licence was effective immediately.


The second licence was for small firm CV Duta Putra Bangka.


Koba Tin had suspended deliveries of the commodity amid an
ongoing probe in the Bangka-Belitung islands, which account for
nearly half of Indonesia's refined tin exports.


Three of its top executives have since been arrested on
allegations that the firm was involved in buying ore from illegal
miners.


Another trade ministry official said Wednesday that despite the
arrests it was decided the company could resume operations.


Production from some small-scale mines would, however, remain
suspended, Malaysia Smelting said.


Indonesian officials have said the new regulations were issued to
curb unchecked shipments of the commodity as well as mounting
illegal mining.

