

Influential Somali elders Wednesday held urgent talks a day after
an Ethiopian army unit and Islamist insurgents clashed in
southern Mogadishu, killing at least seven civilians, officials
said.


As rival forces faced off in the volatile al Kamin neighbourhood,
the elders met to discuss the fighting that raged overnight.


The clashes broke out despite a truce announced by elders of
Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan after talks with Ethiopian
military commanders early this month.


"We are in urgent talks," a Hawiye elder told AFP on condition he
was not named.


Last week, Ethiopian forces refused to meet with the elders for
further talks unless commanders of the insurgent movement
attended, which raised the tension in the lawless capital.


Ethiopian forces have been deployed in the country since the
start of the year to boost a UN-backed transitional government,
which it helped oust  Islamists from much of south and central
Somalia.


Officials said President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, whose palace
Villa Somalia, was pounded by mortar shells late Tuesday, had
left the city. But they would not say where he had gone.


"I am not sure if his leaving is related to the fighting, but
overnight, some mortar shells landed inside and outside the
palace where he was staying," said one palace official.


Seven people were killed, several civilians wounded and houses
demolished in the latest fighting, witnesses said.


The shattered truce had itself followed the four days of intense
fighting that erupted March 29.


On that occasion Ethiopian troops launched a crackdown on
insurgents accused of attacking government and Ethiopian army
positions in the capital.


On that occasion, elders said that at least 1,000 people had been
killed and more than 4,000 wounded in what humanitarian groups
described as the worst fighting in 15 years.


Top Islamist leader Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, who is currently
in Eritrea, has called on Somalis to intensify their resistance
to Ethiopian forces, whom he accused of "destruction and genocide
against defenseless civilians."


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has lacked an effective
government since the ousting of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in
1991 touched off a power struggle that exploded into inter-clan
warfare.

