

Nigerian opposition parties threatened to boycott weekend
presidential elections as turmoil Wednesday surrounded one of the
most closely watched polls since independence.


The announcement by a group of 18 opposition parties came as
soldiers clashed with members of an Islamic fundamentalist group
that killed 12 policemen and a civilian the previous day in the
northern city of Kano.


The opposition group said late Tuesday that the April 14 vote
should be canceled, the national election commission disbanded
and further elections postponed until "transparency and fairness"
could be guaranteed.


If these conditions were not fulfilled, the parties "shall
consider not participating in the election," they said in a
statement.


More than 20 people were killed in regional elections last
weekend that were heavily criticised as fraudulent by the
international community.


The statement was read at the end of a meeting in the presence of
two leading opposition candidates in the presidential election,
Vice President Atiku Abubakar and General Muhamadu Buhari, a
former military ruler.


The presidential vote is expected to usher in Nigeria's first
civilian-to civilian handover since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1960.


Abubakar and Buhari are the two opposition figures expected to
pose the most serious challenge to the ruling party's Umaru
Yar'Adua in Saturday's poll.


Abubakar was excluded from the initial list of approved
candidates following corruption allegations. But the Supreme
Court decided Monday that the commission did not have the right
to disqualify candidates.


On Tuesday, the electoral commission complied with the Supreme
Court ruling and reversed its decision.


The move was a setback for outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo,
who has been trying to ensure an easy ride for Yar'Adua.


Abubakar has been Obasanjo's deputy since 1999. But a dispute
between the two escalated last August when the president openly
accused his deputy of corruption and had him investigated.


The regional elections last weekend were slammed as fraudulent by
the European Union, the United States and rights watchdogs such
as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.


Police sought to step up security followed the election violence.


But on Tuesday, an obscure Islamic fundamentalist group killed 12
police officers and one civilian in an attack on a police station
in the northern Nigerian city of Kano.


And Wednesday, soldiers again clashed with members of the same
group in Kano.


"The insurgents were supposed to be dislodged from their enclave
this morning by a combined team of soldiers and police. They are
right now doing that," federal police spokesman Haz Iwendi told
AFP Wednesday.


Iwendi could not confirm any casualities from the operation,
although at least one witness spoke of seeing the bodies of three
soldiers.


An AFP correspondent saw some 500 residents fleeing the fighting.


"The entire place is under troops' bombardment. That is why we
have to flee," a resident told AFP.


Last Friday armed men gunned down a radical Muslim cleric and two
of his followers in a mosque in a Kano suburb.

