

Nigerian soldiers killed at least 25 Islamic militants on
Wednesday, the second day of violent clashes in the northern city
of Kano, an army spokesman said.


"I understand that our troops killed at least 25 members of the
criminal group terrorising Kano. The operation to flush them out
is still on," Colonel Ayo Olaniyan told AFP.


On Tuesday, members of the Islamist group attacked a Kano
suburban police post in broad daylight killing the station chief,
his wife and 11 officers.


A combined police and army operation was mounted on Wednesday
morning to dislodge the militants after they briefly occupied the
police post before escaping to a nearby waterworks complex.


The violence comes amid tensions over Nigeria's forthcoming
presidential elections on Saturday.


Nigerian opposition parties have threatened to boycott the vote
and say it should be cancelled, the national election commission
disbanded and further elections postponed until "transparency and
fairness" could be guaranteed.


A senior official with the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP)
said on Wednesday that the vote will go ahead as planned.


Security has been stepped up countrywide following weekend
violence across Nigeria that claimed 21 lives in the wake of
regional elections.


Olaniyan gave no details of any army casualties in Wednesday's
clash in Kano, but one eyewitness spoke of seeing the bodies of
three soldiers and an AFP reporter saw some 500 residents fleeing
the fighting.


"The entire place is under the troops' bombardment. That is why
we have to flee," a resident told AFP.


Tuesday's attack on the police station had prompted the
authorities in Kano, the most populous city in northern Nigeria,
to impose a dusk-to-dawn curfew ahead of next weekend's
presidential vote.


The city is a flashpoint for both religious and communal
violence. Last Friday assailants shot and killed a radical Muslim
cleric and two of his followers in a mosque in a Kano suburb.


According to local police the group involved in the latest
violence is known locally as the Taliban because of its
admiration for the former rulers of Afghanistan.


"This has nothing to do with politics. It is purely religious,"
Kano State police spokesman Baba Mohamed said on Tuesday, adding
that the same group was behind attacks in 2004 and 2005 in two
other northern Nigerian towns, Yobe and Borno.


This weekend's vote is expected to usher in Nigeria's first
civilian-to civilian handover since the country gained
independence from Britain in 1960.

