

Britain's Foreign Office expressed disappointment and
disagreement Wednesday with a National Union of Journalists vote
to call for a boycott on Israeli goods.


The NUJ voted Friday to push for British sanctions on Israeli
goods in response to Israel's "aggression" in the Palestinian
territories and last year's retaliatory attacks against the
Hezbollah militia in Lebanon.


"I was disappointed to hear that on April 13, 2007, the NUJ voted
to boycott goods from Israel," said Foreign Office Minister Kim
Howells.


"The government believes that, as a friend of both Israel and the
Palestinians, we can best exert influence by encouraging both
sides to take the steps needed for progress toward peace through
close engagement.


"The NUJ is, of course, an independent organisation. The
government values freedom of expression and freedom of the press,
and would not seek to interfere in the NUJ's internal
discussions.


"But we disagree with their decision to boycott Israeli goods,"
Howells said.


At the NUJ's centenary conference, the vote, which carried 66 to
54, read: "This annual delegate meeting calls for a boycott of
Israeli goods similar to those boycotts in the struggles against
apartheid South Africa led by trade unions and the Trades Union
Congress to demand sanctions be imposed on Israel by the British
government and the United Nations."


NUJ general secretary Jeremy Dear told AFP that the motion --
opposed by the leadership -- did not mean the union itself had to
boycott Israeli goods.


It was part of wider motions which were overwhelmingly carried,
setting out opposition to "aggression" in the Palestinian
territories, the "savage, pre- planned attack on Lebanon" and the
"slaughter of civilians in Gaza."


Dear said of the boycott vote: "It's a symbolic motion in many
respects, setting out people's concerns about what is happening
in the Palestinian territories.


"We've made it very clear we have links with the National
Federation of Israel Journalists and the Palestinian Journalists'
Syndicate and will continue to work with both of them to try to
advance freedom of expression within the region."


Responding to Howells' comments, he added: "I would hope that
what we're all trying to do is move towards exerting pressure on
those who appear to be against peace in the region on all sides."


The NUJ represents journalists in or from Britain and Ireland and
has 35,000 members.

