

A prominent Kashmiri separatist on Wednesday accused the Indian
government of turning traditionally "non-violent" residents of
the divided territory to armed revolt.


"The majority of Kashmiris are followers of Sufism," said Yasin
Malik, referring to the more esoteric and mystic branch of Islam.


"We believe in non-violence but were forced to take to guns by
India after our repeated attempts to get the dispute resolved
peacefully failed," said Malik, chairman of the political wing of
the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF).


Malik was among the first rebels to take up arms against India
when the Kashmir insurgency broke out in 1989 and was at the top
of a list of "most wanted militants" until he renounced violence
in 1994.


The rebellion has so far left more than 42,000 people dead by
official count. Human rights groups put the toll at 70,000,
including 10,000 people who have disappeared and are presumed
dead.


"We Kashmiris didn't used to kill a chick. We had no alternative
left but to take to guns," he told a news conference in summer
capital Srinagar.


Malik hailed an ongoing dialogue between India and Pakistan,
which hold the region in parts but claim it in full, but warned
"nothing would be achieved until Kashmiris, (and) militants in
particular, are part of the process."


"If you want negotiations to succeed, the militant leadership has
to be taken on board," said Malik, the former head of JKLF's
armed wing.


Malik said he has decided to boycott a government-organised
meeting this month on the revolt-hit province.


The so-called "Kashmir roundtable," due to be held in New Delhi
on April 24, is the third such meeting aimed at easing tensions
in the revolt-hit state.


"We don't want to be part of a crowd that have no ideological
differences with India. Talks should be held exclusively with us
(separatists)," he said.


The first two meetings last year were attended by pro-Indian
parties only, with those opposed to Indian rule in Kashmir
staying away.


Both hardline and moderate separatists have decided to boycott
the meeting.


The roundtable process is an initiative of Indian Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh and separate to a "composite dialogue" launched in
January 2004 between India and Pakistan.

