

South African skipper Graeme Smith and his "merry men" were
toasted by his country's media Wednesday after a blitz on the
England team saw them burst into the cricket World Cup semi-
finals.


A day after being lambasted for partying into the wee hours of
the morning following a woeful loss to New Zealand on Saturday,
South Africa's press said the Proteas deserved a few drinks after
their emphatic nine-wicket victory.


"Proteas drunk with success. Smith's merry men make it to semis
as last round is called," read the front page headline of the
Star newspaper.


The Beeld newspaper quipped that Smith had served the English
team their final drink.


"If this is how the South Africans play cricket after partying,
they can do so after every match," Beeld said.


While reports of a drinking binge by the Proteas -- who have had
a few wobbly performances in the world tournament -- had
triggered heavy criticism, forgiveness was quick as a World Cup
win came back into the team's sights.


A "sobering" thought indeed, said the Star.


"There would have been scores of supporters lining up to buy the
South African team a drink last night," read the newspaper.


"After all the criticism they've endured, they would have surely
raised a glass or three to their victory over England in Barbados
yesterday -- and who would deny them thay?"


The English team faced an unstoppable onslaught at Kensington
Oval Tuesday, as fast bowler Andrew Hall took what the Citizen
newspaper termed a "Five-wicket Hall", and South Africa surpassed
England's paltry 154 total with more than 30 overs to spare.


As one South African commentator quipped during the match, the
only thing England won was the toss.


Their decision to go in and bat first on the lively Caribbean
pitch, which Hall said was very similar to South African
conditions, was said to have backfired horribly.


The South African media, which had played up rivalry between
skipper Smith and England's South Africa-born batsman Kevin
Pietersen did not let Smith's small victory -- catching Pietersen
on three runs -- go unmentioned.


"For a change, Smith won the war of words as well," said the
Beeld newspaper.


Smith was unabashed about his team's achievements, saying: "Our
skills were superb, and we made our own luck."


The captain himself put on a superb performance, hammering 89
runs off 58 balls, including 13 fours.


Having qualified for the fourth place in the semi-finals, all
predictions are that South Africa will play Australia in
Wednesday's match in St Lucia.


Beeld said the time had come for the Proteas to settle the score
with Australia who had an easy victory over them during the first
round in St Kitts.

