

Thailand on Wednesday unveiled the first draft of its new
constitution, which its authors insist will prevent graft and
guide the kingdom back to democracy following last year's coup.


The proposed charter contains new clauses addressing corruption
and abuse of power, key reasons given for the putsch that
overthrew billionaire businessman- turned-premier Thaksin
Shinawatra last September.


"The draft constitution aims to fully restore democracy and
organise national elections within 2007," the Constitution
Drafting Council said in a statement after releasing the charter
on its website.


"The 1997 constitution created monopolies, abuse of power, lacked
transparency, and created a lack of ethics in politics."


The new charter, which if approved will replace the 1997 version
and become Thailand's 18th constitution, will now face public
debate and possible revision before a referendum scheduled for
early September.


The junta has promised elections for December.


Analysts say the charter will be closely scrutinised for signs
that the generals, who tore up the previous constitution after
their bloodless putsch, are trying to cement their role in
political life.


One of the more controversial clauses states that the Senate will
be appointed -- rather than elected as it was in the 1997
charter.


The number of senators is to be cut to 160 from 200, while the
number of parliamentarians will be reduced to 400 from 500.


The charter states that the prime minister must be an elected
lawmaker, quashing speculation there may be a provision for an
appointed premier, as suggested by junta chief General Sonthi
Boonyaratglin.


However, in a break from the 1997 version, the constitution
released Wednesday restricts the prime minister to two terms, or
eight years, in office.


"It is the first time in a constitution that the prime minister
can hold only two consecutive terms ... once they stay in power
too long, their power will corrupt them," said Tongthong
Chandransu, one of the 35 charter drafters.


The junta has said that a new charter is needed to prevent the
corruption they claim marred Thaksin's government, and a number
of new checks and balances have been injected into the proposed
constitution.


It states that 100 MPs can sponsor a motion to remove the prime
minister or other senior government figures from office if there
is evidence of corruption. In the 1997 version, 200 lawmakers
were needed to impeach a premier.


The charter also states that a lawmaker or prime minister is
automatically removed from office if found guilty of corruption
in a criminal or civil court.


The constitution does not specify Buddhism as the national
religion, despite pressure from Buddhist activists.


The unveiling comes amid increasing opposition to the military
junta and the government it installed, with allies of Thaksin
leading small but growing protests.


Activists have also attacked the charter drafting process, which
took place largely behind closed doors by 35 people picked by the
junta.


Political parties complain they have been locked out of the
process by a military ban on their activities, which they say
will prevent them campaigning for or against the charter in the
September referendum.


The military says that if the public rejects the charter, the
generals will simply impose a constitution of their choosing.

