

An Iraqi pledge to support the millions of its citizens forced to
flee their homes and the country has helped unlock international
aid for the growing humanitarian crisis, said officials at a UN
conference.


"The conference did have the effect that things are moving again,
especially with Jordan and Syria," said Rafiq Tschannen, of the
International Organisation for Migration.


"Those countries were at a loss before on how to react."


Previously, some western donors had declined to give on the
grounds that Baghdad had enough money, aid officials said.


Nearly two million of the four million Iraqis, who have fled both
Saddam Hussein's regime and the violence following his ouster in
2003, have sought refuge in neighbouring Jordan and Syria.


Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari made his announcement at
the Geneva conference, organised by the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR), late Tuesday.


Baghdad had "allocated 25 million dollars (18 million euros) to
meet the most urgent needs of these people as a first step," he
said.


"My government embraces its duty towards its citizens wherever
they are and we will not abandon them, he added.


Aid agencies at the two-day meeting had warned that Jordan and
Syria were being squeezed to their limits by the refugee burden
and had received little in the way of financial support.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon had opened the conference with
an appeal to countries to keep their borders open to Iraqi
refugees, amid signs that some were restricting access.


Germany announced additional funding of 2.2 million euros (three
million dollars) at the conference, while diplomats said France
had pledged one million euros.


The United States said it had given 18 million dollars to the
UNHCR's 60 million dollar aid programme for Iraqi refugees this
year.


1   Meanwhile, the 1.9 million people displaced inside Iraq are
facing increasingly harsh conditions.


Some regional authorities have started to turn back people
arriving from other regions because their dilapidated
infrastructure cannot cope.


"In the past the internally displaced people were cared for by
host families. That is becoming difficult, especially in the
cities. It's a new trend, it's disturbing," said Tschannen.


The Iraqi package will provide financial aid for countries
hosting refugees to help them prop up overburdened education and
health services, especially its neighbours.


It also includes a commitment to protect and help those within
Iraq who have fled sectarian violence, the UNHCR said.


The conference has been marked by fears that the Iraqis could
turn into a permanent refugee population similar to several
million Palestinians scattered throughout the Middle East for
decades.


Following an initial wave of returns from 2003, some 800,000
Iraqis have fled their homes since violence involving Iraq's
Sunni and Shiite Muslim communities -- and US led forces --
intensified in February 2006.


"We won't be able to get rid of this problem unless we find
political solutions in Iraq," Zebari acknowledged.


"If Iraq were to fail, there would be a major disaster in the
region. The spill- over could not be contained within the borders
of Iraq," he warned.

