

Hollywood star Richard Gere and Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty
have landed in legal trouble after a light-hearted hug and kiss
at an AIDS awareness event last weekend, a press report said.


Two formal complaints of obscenity were lodged after protesters
in cities across the nation burned effigies of Gere, who showered
Shetty with kisses.


One complaint accused the stars of committing "an obscene act" in
a public place, while a second also targeted several private TV
channels for showing videos of the embrace, accusing them of
"indecent representation of women."


Obscenity is punishable by a maximum of two years' imprisonment
and a fine of 2,000 rupees (45 dollars) in India.


A judge has asked Indian news channel NDTV, which broadcast the
event, to produce a recording of the incident by April 25.


The kissing represented "all indecency and nudity which our
society cannot tolerate," said one of the complainants' lawyers.


Gere embraced the 31-year-old Shetty -- winner of Britain's
Celebrity Big Brother reality show -- and kissed her several
times on the cheek in front of 4,000 onlookers.


The incident triggered a public storm in India, known for its
chaste public behaviour despite Bollywood's sexually suggestive
song and dance routines.


Radical Hindus burned effigies of the 57-year-old Gere in India's
entertainment hub of Mumbai and organised street rallies in the
capital New Delhi a day after the actor's public display of
affection.


"Such a public display is not part of Indian tradition," said a
spokesman for the opposition Hindu nationalist BJP party, Prakash
Javadekar.


Shetty earlier called for calm, telling reporters: "Richard
called me three times to apologise, saying he is sorry if he has
hurt the sentiments of Indian people.


"This is not how we treat our guests and it's my humble appeal to
all my fans who have taken it very personally to ignore this,"
she said.


Gere became an AIDS awareness campaigner in the early 1980s when
a friend died of the disease, focusing his efforts on India,
Russia and China.


India has the largest number of HIV-AIDS cases in the world, with
5.7 million people infected, according to the Geneva-based
UNAIDS.


After creating the furore in India, Gere who also been a
supporter of the Tibetan refugee cause for many years, travelled
to Kathmandu on Tuesday to meet Tibetan activists.

