

China will underpin Asia-Pacific economic growth in 2007 but
could face social tensions if unchecked expansion causes its
economy to overheat, a United Nations report said on Wednesday.


Economies in the Asia-Pacific region are set to grow by 7.4
percent in 2007, supported by continuing expansion in China,
India and Japan, the UN said in its 'Economic and Social Survey
of Asia and the Pacific 2007'.


The growth rate is slower than the 7.9 percent recorded in 2006,
due to an expected slowdown in the United States and Europe,
along with falling commodity prices.


"As the international economic environment weakens, momentum in
the region is expected to come from China, India and Japan.
Together, these three economies contribute over 60 percent of the
GDP of the Asia-Pacific region and close to 45 percent of
imports," the report said.


Chinese growth is seen at about 9.9 percent in 2007, down from
10.7 percent in 2006, with exports and investment still the
driving forces.


"There is a risk of further acceleration in investment growth
resulting in overheating of the Chinese economy," the report
warned.


If Chinese gross domestic product (GDP) growth declined to 7
percent, net exports in developing Asian economies would fall by
almost two percentage points and GDP growth by 0.2 percentage
points, it predicted.


UN economist Cape Kasahara told journalists that such a
development would also have political repercussions as the social
tensions caused by China's economic transformation come to the
fore.


"Privatisation of the public-owned enterprises is creating
disruptions of the public fibres," he noted, with income
distribution, environmental pollution and unemployment also
causing tensions.


China's exposure to foreign ideologies and influences within a
globalised environment could also have far-reaching consequences
for the country's authoritarian government, he added.


"As people become more and more aware of the international
environment and are having a more sensitised, democratised
concept, people may start questioning and maybe 1989 could be
revisited," Kasahara said, referring to pro-democracy protests in
Beijing's Tiananmen Square which were crushed by the Chinese
military.


India is expected to grow by 9.0 percent led by services and
accelerating industrial production, while Japanese growth is seen
falling to 1.9 percent due to ongoing fiscal consolidation,
exchange rate appreciation and the US slowdown, the report said.


Inflation is seen as less of a problem than in previous years due
to a fall in oil prices and tight monetary policies in the
region.


Exchange rate fluctuations are by contrast a key area of concern,
after many Asian currencies appreciated significantly against the
US dollar in 2006 -- a trend which is set to continue in the
current year.


A moderate decline in global electronics demand in 2007 may
dampen the region's prospects, it added.

