

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said on Wednesday that Israel had no
intention of attacking Syria this summer, army radio reported.


"Israel has no intention of attacking any Arab country this
summer. We will defend ourselves if we are attacked," radio
quoted Olmert as telling parliament's foreign affairs and defence
committee, referring to Syria.


Israeli military intelligence has reported recently that Syria
was reinforcing troops at its border with the occupied Golan
Heights, but these "are of a defensive character aimed against a
possible Israeli attack," the radio said.


Committee chairman Tsahi Hanegbi said: "It is important that
there are no aggressive declarations from our side that can be
misunderstood" by the Syrian leadership.


But Israel "has to be always ready for the worst so as not be
taken by surprise as was the case in 1973" when Israeli leaders
were unprepared for a coordinated attack from Syria and Egypt,
Hanegbi said.


Earlier this month, Israeli military intelligence chief Amos
Yadlin said that Syria and Hezbollah, with which the Jewish state
fought a 34-day war last summer, feared a possible attack by
Israel if the United States attacks Iran.


"They fear a war initiated by the Americans because they
understand that there might be an attack against Iran over the
summer, but not by Israel," a senior government official quoted
Yadlin as telling cabinet ministers.


Although Yadlin insisted Israel had no intention of becoming
embroiled in such a conflict, he warned that any moves by the
Jewish state could be wrongly interpreted by its neighbours as a
sign of hostile intent.


"If the Americans launch an offensive in Iran, Hezbollah and
Syria will think the move had been coordinated with Israel and
would expect Israel to strike them too," another government
official at the meeting told AFP.


Peace talks between Israel and Syria collapsed in 2000, mainly
because of deadlock over the return of the Golan, which Israel
captured from Syria in 1967 and unilaterally annexed in 1981.


Israel has repeatedly rejected peace overtures by Syrian
President Bashar al- Assad in recent months, saying Damascus must
first stop supporting militant groups in Lebanon and the Gaza
Strip.

