

After two blank days without racing the 11 America's Cup
challengers took to the water again here Wednesday more in hope
than expectation of getting the Louis Vuitton Cup off the ground.


Insufficient breeze off Valencia's Port America's Cup thwarted
the fleet on Monday and Tuesday but Wednesday's' forecast of
winds rising to 10 knots in the afternoon offered at least a
glimmer of hope.


If this qualifying competition to weedle out the challenger to
Swiss defender Alinghi in June does get underway some intriguing
match races in this first round robin stage are on offer.


Pick of the bunch are the clashes between Emirates Team New
Zealand and home side Desafio Espanol, and America's BMW Oracle
Racing and former finalists Luna Rossa of Italy.


But Team New Zealand strategist Ray Davies was not getting over
excited about the prospects of the wind picking up.


"A similar day is forecast, so we're not that hopeful. But we'll
go out there and bob around and hopefully the wind gods are kind
to us and we'll be able to get one race away."


He added: "Even the following day (Thursday) isn't brilliant but
then things should start coming right."


Over at Sweden's Victory Challenge which has a date with United
Team Germany Simon Fisher commented: "I would say it is 50-50.
There is a good chance that things might clear up."


Also on Wednesday's menu, should it ever be served, is a clash of
the Cup debutants China team's Son of Dragon and Team Shosholoza
of South Africa.


The first starting gun is due to sound at 1405 (1205GMT).


While the lack of breeze makes life difficult for TV rights
holders with live feed of limp sails organisers are remaining
sanguine over the disrupted programme.


"We're not worried about the racing schedule as we have reserve
days and only one race a day for the second round robin series,"
said America's Cup media director Marcus Hutchinson.


He added that the situation was by no means unprecedented,
pointing out that back in Auckland in the 2003 edition, 40
percent of the scheduled races were disrupted by the elements.


Hutchinson added that the Louis Vuitton Cup had been timed to
start in spring despite the unpredictable nature of the weather
so as to ensure in part that the America's Cup itself did not
clash with the first mountain stages of the Tour de France.


The 32nd America's Cup, which is being staged in Europe for the
first time since the inaugural edition off the Isle of Wight in
1851, starts on June 23.

