

Malaysia's former premier Mahathir Mohamad Wednesday emerged as
an unlikely champion for the country's bloggers, arguing they
provide a valuable source of news.


Mahathir, who in recent months has complained he was being
censored by mainstream media, said people were turning to blogs
and online news journals because of Malaysia's tightly controlled
media.


"There is no doubt that bloggers have provided us with an
alternative source of news. By and large, they have been
responsible," Mahathir said after speaking at a conference on the
media and national development.


"At the moment, with the atmosphere prevailing in the country,
many people are turning to the bloggers for news," he said.


"That is what the government should learn, if you suppress news
then the alternative source will gain credence," said the former
leader, whose daughter Marina has her own blog.


The comments from Mahathir, criticised for suppressing press
freedoms during his 22-year tenure, come amid unprecedented
defamation suits against two well-known bloggers by the
government-linked New Straits Times Press.


Malaysian bloggers have also come under fire from Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and his ministers, who accused them of
spreading lies and have threatened punishment and tighter
controls on Internet use.


Mahathir said certain measures were still needed to control press
freedom, but they should not be abused just to stop criticism of
the government.


"In Malaysia, when I talk about the press, people keep saying 'in
your time you were worse', but I say I wasn't that bad," said
Mahathir.


"As far as I'm concerned, it is worse (now). If I say certain
things that are critical, it may not get published. This is
unhealthy," he said.


Steven Gan, the co-founder and editor of Malaysiakini.com,
Malaysia's first online news journal, lauded Mahathir's
realisation of the value of alternative news sources.


Malaysiakini was banned from government press functions and had
its offices raided during Mahathir's administration.


"I just wished that he would have said the same thing when he was
prime minister," Gan said.

