

Australia is concerned that growing guilt over the impact of jet
flights on global warming could hit the country's multi-billion-
dollar tourism industry, officials said Wednesday.


With long-distance airline flights virtually the only way of
reaching "Down Under" and climate change threatening major
attractions such as the Great Barrier Reef, the government has
launched a "Tourism Action Plan".


"Tourism is a 75 billion dollar (62.7 billion US) industry
employing more than half a million Australians and is dependent
upon a sustainable environment," Tourism Minister Fran Bailey
said in a statement Wednesday.


"For example, the Great Barrier Reef employs 33,000 people and
generates more than 5.8 billion for our nation," she said.


Scientists have warned the reef's famous corals could be killed
by rising sea temperatures blamed on global warming, which is in
turn blamed on greenhouse gases from burning fuels such as those
used by airlines.


The tourism industry had been identified as one of the sectors
most vulnerable to climate change and the action plan would
develop adaptation strategies, Bailey said.


The move was welcomed by Australian Tourism Export Council
managing director Matt Hingerty, but he told AFP the industry had
been too slow to react to the threat to air travel.


"It's quite a hot topic in the European Union, driven by some
Green politicians and taken up by mainstream people.


"There is a global movement saying in effect that travel by air
is bad -- a global guilt industry.


"That's a significant threat to us because being a long-haul
destination the only way you can get here, apart from a minute
portion coming by sea, is by air -- and if people stop flying
we're in trouble."


Environmental groups say jet travel is one of the fastest growing
sources of carbon dioxide and jet-setting politicians are
regularly castigated for the tonnes of pollution their travels
produce.


Hingerty said travellers would increasingly demand the ability to
offset the impact of their travel on the environment.


Virgin Blue was already offering an offset option, he said. "When
you pay for your ticket, they add an extra dollar or so onto your
airfare and use it to plant forests.


"Tourism is Australia's second largest export industry after
coal, so this is an issue that is crucial to our nation's well-
being.


"We need to understand what the impacts will be and plan for
those impacts, but we also have to win the philosophical debate
that says travel is not bad."


He described as "an absolute disaster" reports that award-winning
British novelist Jeanette Winterson had turned down an invitation
to this month's Sydney Writers Festival because of long-haul
pollution concerns.


An additional challenge to Australia's tourism industry could
come from visitors judging a country on its green record,
Queensland Tourism Industry Council chief Daniel Gschwind told
the Australian Financial Review.


As one of the only two countries in the world to have refused to
sign the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, Australia could thus
find itself shunned by eco- conscious travellers in the same way
destinations run by repressive regimes are avoided for political
reasons.

