

Britain's Tesco said Wednesday it will open its first own-brand
mini-supermarket in Japan next week as part of a new expansion in
the world's number two retail market.


The Tesco Express store will open its doors in Tokyo's Nerima
ward on April 25, one of up to 35 new outlets the British
supermarket giant plans to open this year in Japan, where there
is already fierce competition.


The new push comes as Japan shows signs of a long-awaited revival
in consumer spending, with Asia's largest economy emerging from a
slump stretching back more than a decade.


Tesco currently operates 106 stores in Japan under the
"Tsurukame" brand and has now decided to use its own name as it
looks to step up rivalry with the nation's ubiquitous convenience
stores such as 7-Eleven and Lawsons.


The British group said it aimed to offer an alternative to the
existing one-stop groceries.


"The new stores represent the most compact version of the
'Tsurukame Land' food supermarkets we have been running," said
Tesco spokeswoman Shizuko Ota.


"They are not convenience stores. We position them as a small
type of food supermarket," she said.


Unlike many of the roughly 40,000 conveniences stores in Japan
that operate round-the-clock, the new Tesco Express will be open
from 7.00 am to 11.00 pm.


Tesco already employs 3,300 people in Japan, where it acquired 78
discount supermarkets, mostly in the Tokyo area, in 2003 through
the acquisition of C Two-Network.


Tesco is the world's third-biggest retailer behind French
supermarket Carrefour and frontrunner US giant Wal-Mart.


Japan's retail history is littered with failed past attempts by
firms such as Swedish furniture retailer Ikea, Carrefour and
British drugstore Boots.


Wal-Mart's Japanese subsidiary Seiyu Ltd. is also struggling as
the US retail behemoth's "everyday low price" motto faces a tough
sell in Japan, where consumers often prefer smaller stores.


Tesco on Tuesday reported a 20-percent surge in net profits to a
record 1.892 billion pounds (3.767 billion dollars), saying
growth was driven by soaring sales of food and other goods at
home and abroad.


Tesco has 3,000 supermarket branches worldwide, including 1,800
in Britain, and is enjoying strong sales in Asia, including
Thailand.

