

EU trade chief Peter Mandelson refused to rule out Wednesday
opening a WTO case against China for its failure to protect
intellectual property rights, like the United States has done.


"I do not rule out initiating or joining action at the WTO (World
Trade Organisation) if in our view China is failing to take its
responsibilities seriously," he told journalists in Brussels.


"China has agreed to protect (intellectual property rights). It
did so when it joined the WTO and despite considerable efforts by
the Chinese government, IPR protection in China remains patchy
and uneven," he added.


Earlier this month, the United States formally lodged a complaint
against China at the World Trade Organisation over copyright
piracy, with fake DVDs and counterfeited luxury goods adding to
existing tensions between the trading giants.


Mandelson stressed the European Union expected a "dialogue" with
Chinese authorities to bear fruit about improving protection of
intellectual property rights.


"As we're seeing in the United States, Europe's patience could
wear thin if we do not see our dialogue with the Chinese
authorities delivering more change when it comes to IPR and other
market access issues," he said.


Chinese officials say that they have limited resources to combat
the trade of counterfeit goods, such as DVDs, music CDs, apparel,
and other brand-name fashion items, which are freely available in
large cities in China.


Mandelson's comments came as he was presenting an updated
strategy for bringing down trade barriers considered to be unfair
to EU exports, including plans to pursue more cases at the WTO if
need be.


While suing trade partners at the WTO was not the "instrument of
choice" for prying open markets, Mandelson said he was prepared
to do so "as a last resort."


The new strategy also included plans to put more staff "on the
ground" in emerging trade powers such as China and India to be
better prepared to tackle potentially unfair trade barriers.


Although the new strategy gives a new focus to attacking
individual barriers in specific countries, Mandelson said that
the European Union's priority remained to make progress in the
so-called Doha round of WTO free-trade negotiations.


He said that WTO members were at a "crucial moment" in the
negotiations with the major powers scheduled to hold three
ministerial meetings in the next two months.


WTO members are struggling to revive the negotiations ahead of
the end of June when the US administration's powers to give fast-
track treatment to international trade deal expires.


The Doha Round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
have struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in
agricultural, industrial goods and services.

