

Thousands of workers from a giant US-run mine in Indonesia's
remote Papua province staged a noisy but peaceful protest
Wednesday amid tight security to demand better wages and welfare.


Police, including from the paramilitary Brimob unit, stood guard
as thousands of workers from the gold and copper mine
demonstrated outside the Indonesian headquarters of Freeport-
McMoRan in the town of Timika.


"They number in the thousands but so far the protest has been
peaceful," said Adi, a police officer on duty in the town.


Company spokesman Mindo Pangaribuan told AFP early Wednesday that
production remained at full capacity at the Grasberg mine despite
the protest.


However a group negotiating talks between the company and workers
said the protest had forced the mine's closure, Kompas online
reported.


"According to information that we have just received, it says
that production activities have now totally halted," Tongoi-
Papua's chairman Frans Pigome said, according to Kompas.


Freeport's spokesman later declined comment on the report.


The protracted dispute, which centres on demands for higher wages
and increased recruitment of Papuan workers as permanent
employees, has helped push world copper prices to seven-month
highs.


An activist at the rally told AFP about 5,000 workers later moved
to a council building, where meetings with company officials were
underway.


"The council has agreed to mediate between Freeport and the
protesters, and representatives from both sides are currently
meeting there," said Diaz from the Institute for Policy Research
and Advocacy.


The workers have been gathering in Timika from surrounding
villages and towns since Tuesday for the rally after talks with
company representatives were called off.


They had demanded they speak with Freeport executives in the
United States via a teleconference.


Critics accuse Freeport of not giving enough to the people of
Papua in return for the mine. They allege the mine causes
pollution and that the military's protection of the site leads to
human rights abuses.


The firm has disputed the claims.


Freeport's Pangaribuan said that in the past decade the company
had almost quadrupled its Papuan employment, from some 800 in
1996 to the current 3,000 workers.


Freeport operates its Grasberg mine in southwest Papua under a
30-year contract with the Indonesian government that began in
1992. The company owns 91 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, with
the rest in government hands.

