

The UN's top legal adviser on Wednesday met Lebanese officials to
try to unblock months of political paralysis preventing the
creation of an international court to resolve the 2005 murder of
former premier Rafiq Hariri.


One day after expressing determination that a court must be
formed, Nicolas Michel made the first visit by a UN official in
over two years to pro-Syrian Lebanese President Emile Lahoud.


"The time to adopt the legal basis (for the tribunal) has come.
This time has come," Michel, UN under-secretary general for legal
affairs, said on his arrival on Tuesday in the Lebanese capital.


Lahoud has backed the opposition which has blocked the
establishement of the court to try suspects in the murder widely
blamed on Damascus -- despite Syrian denials.


Western visitors have boycotted Lahoud since his term was
extended for three years in a Syrian-inspired constitutional
amendment in September 2004.


Lahoud met UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon at the Arab summit in
Riyadh in March, but the UN chief did not visit him during his
two-day trip to Lebanon late last month.


Michel's mission is to meet government and opposition leaders and
encourage the two sides to renew dialogue and accept
parliamentary ratification of a Lebanon- UN agreement to set up
the court.


On Tuesday, Michel held talks with Western-backed Prime Minister
Fuad Siniora and parliament speaker Nabih Berri, a leading member
of the opposition.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but it must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament. Berri has continued to refuse to convene the
house.


Later on Wednesday, Michel was due to meet Energy Minister
Mohamad Fneish, one of the cabinet members of pro-Syrian Shiite
movement Hezbollah who submitted their resignation in November,
throwing the country in near complete political paralysis.


Michel was also due to have talks with Justice Minister Charles
Rizk and Lebanese judges who helped to prepare the draft for the
international tribunal.


On his arrival in Beirut, Michel said that the United Nations
does not want to take sides in Lebanon's "internal controversy"
over the tribunal, but insisted there will be a trial although it
would need "at least a year" to become operational.


"All of them (Lebanese leaders) agree that there is a need for
justice, therefore there should be no doubts: there will be a
tribunal," he said. "We want the tribunal to be a real judicial
organ, and not a political instrument."


Lebanon's government has called for the UN Security Council to
impose the setting up of the tribunal, endorsed under its
Resolution 1595, if the pro- Syrian opposition continues to block
its establishment.


Billionaire former premier Hariri was killed by a massive bomb on
Beirut's seafront in February 2005. Popular protests in the wake
of the killing led to the departure of Syrian troops from Lebanon
after nearly 30 years.


Hassan Nasrallah, leader of the Syrian- and Iranian-backed
Hezbollah, has criticised the tribunal in its current proposed
form, saying that the court was "conceived in such a way that it
would return pre-established verdicts".


Michel is to brief the Security Council, which will then have to
rule on the issue on his return to New York.


Alongside the efforts of the United Nations, Russia's Deputy
Foreign Minister Alexandre Saltanov flew on Wednesday to Syria
after a day of talks in Beirut aimed at resolving the crisis.


UN chief Ban is due to visit Damascus on April 24.


He has also been asked by the UN Security Council to send an
independent mission to investigate reports of continued illegal
arms movements across the Lebanese- Syrian border.

