

The European Union is set to agree minimum penalties for inciting
racism and xenophobia across the 27 countries, officials said
Wednesday, but they will not make Holocaust denial an EU-wide
crime.


Officials said the agreement was almost certain to be sealed at
Thursday's meeting of European justice ministers in Luxembourg.


But the deal comes after almost six years of wrangling and falls
far short of Germany's ambitions.


Germany had wanted to outlaw the denial of the murder of six
million Jews by the Nazis and their collaborators during World
War II before its six-month term at the helm of the EU ran out at
the end of June.


Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries has said that Germany had a
moral imperative to try to secure an EU-wide ban because of the
Third Reich's responsibility for the Holocaust.


But a draft text seen by AFP makes no specific mention of
Holocaust denial and suggests that acts of that kind would only
be deemed a crime by all 27 EU members if they were likely to
"incite to violence or hatred".


Broadly, the bill would oblige countries to punish "publicly
inciting to violence or hatred directed against a group of
persons or a member of such a group defined by reference to race,
colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin."


That would include encouraging such an act "by public
dissemination or distribution of tracts, pictures or other
material."


The text notes, however, that "member states may choose to punish
only conduct which is either carried out in a manner likely to
disturb public order or which is threatening, abusive or
insulting."


"I think we will reach an agreement," an EU diplomat told
reporters, on condition of anonymity, ahead of the Luxembourg
meeting.


He said the accord would set "minimum standards" on penalties for
such crimes, but conceded that the EU-wide sanctions would
generally be lower than those that many individual member nations
already impose.


The only issue holding up a deal for now is a demand, mainly by
the Baltic states, to include a reference to the crimes committed
by totalitarian regimes such the Stalinist Soviet Union.


But Germany considers the Holocaust to be a unique case, and
several countries fear that adding Stalinism would open up a
Pandora's box, with every member wanting to add their own bogey
regime.


Officials say a separate declaration may be issued addressing
such concerns.


Despite Germany's tough new push for the legislation -- building
on a previous attempt by Luxembourg in 2005 -- the bill has
consistently run up against the problems that it might pose for
free speech.


"This is a truly difficult one," an EU official said. "The
balance between freedom of expression and protection of citizens
is one that every member state strikes in a different place."


He said the EU "has decided to focus on only the most serious
crimes, so this obliges member states to criminalise only the
most serious acts, which are racism and xenophobia, but it
captures a definition of those across the EU".


He explained that denying the Holocaust -- which is specifically
targeted by laws in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Poland and
Romania -- would only qualify if it were to incite hatred.


"It depends on the intent and effect of that denial," he said.


In the end however, it appears an unpalatable compromise for
Germany, where Holocaust denial was made a crime in 1985 and the
use of Nazi insignia is forbidden.

