

Iraqi officials insisted Wednesday that a controversial bill to
be submitted to parliament next month will keep the country's oil
wealth in Iraqi hands and benefit all of its warring communities.


"Under no circumstances would Iraq relinquish its authority, its
responsibility and its control over Iraq's natural resources,"
Oil Minister Hussein Shahristani told reporters in the United
Arab Emirates.


The bill, approved by the Shiite-led government in February after
months of wrangling, opens Iraq's oil sector to foreign
investors.


But Shahristani said incentives to international oil companies to
invest in the industry would be through the profit margins they
will achieve and "not by control of Iraq's wealth."


Some Iraqi oil experts and politicians have voiced concern that
production sharing contracts envisaged by the bill will deliver
the country's oil riches to foreign firms on a platter.


Others have objected to powers given to regional authorities to
negotiate contracts.


Speaking on the sidelines of a conference on the draft law
organised by the Iraqi parliament in Dubai, Shahristani said:
"There is no major oil company in the world which has not shown
interest -- and for that matter no minor oil company that has not
shown interest" in entering the Iraqi oil sector.


Iraq has proven reserves of some 115 billion barrels, and could
produce 10 million barrels per day (bpd) for several decades,
according to analysts.


But current output reaches barely two million bpd as a result of
the combined effects of decades of underinvestment in
infrastructure and rampant insecurity since the US-led invasion
of 2003.


The draft law, which would create a federal oil and gas council,
aims to distribute oil revenues equitably among Iraq's 18
provinces on the basis of their populations through a federal
account.


The proposed central fund shows that the law "is in the interest
of all of Iraq, not (just) the producing regions," Planning
Minister Ali Baban told the conference.


Most oil production is in the Shiite south, with the best
prospects for new finds centred on the Kurdish north, which has
its own regional government.


The Kurds also claim the existing northern oilfields around the
city of Kirkuk, despite opposition from Arab and Turkmen
residents.


The Sunni Arab former elite, which lives mainly in areas of
central Iraq without oil reserves, has voiced concern that under
a fully federal system it might lose out on its share of oil
income.


But the Kurdish regional government's oil minister, Ashti
Hawrami, said the bill agreed by the government already went too
far in trying to assuage Sunni fears and did not square with the
federal provisions of the constitution.


Hawrami complained that the bill would put up to 90 percent of
Iraq's oil reserves under the control of a "centralised and
inefficient institution," an allusion to the state Iraqi National
Oil Company that would be revived under the legislation.


Should parliament fail to pass the law by the agreed end-of-May
deadline, the Kurdistan government would award its own contracts,
Hawrami said.


He said the regional government wanted to "directly manage" its
share of oil resources and not be told by the federal government
how to spend its money.

