

The number of people claiming jobless benefits in Britain fell in
March while earnings rose, official data showed Wednesday.


The claimant count dropped by 9,200 from February to 910,800
people, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said.


That marked the sixth monthly drop in a row and compared with
market expectations for no change. The unemployment rate stood at
2.9 percent in March, unchanged from February.


The ONS also revealed that soaring bonuses payments --
particularly in London's City finance district -- pushed up
headline average earnings growth to its highest level in nearly
three years.


Average earnings, including bonuses, in the year to February 2007
increased by 4.6 percent from the same period the previous year,
after a reading of 4.2 percent in January.


However, excluding bonuses, earnings rose by 3.6 percent,
unchanged from the previous figure.


The 4.6-percent reading marked the highest earnings growth since
January 2004.


The news will cause concern at the Bank of England as the rate
now stands above the 4.5-percent level that is deemed by analysts
to stoke inflationary pressures in the British economy.


"The jump in headline average earnings is mainly a City bonus
story though underlying average earnings growth was actually
unchanged in February," said Audrey Childe-Freeman, economist at
the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.


She added: "At a time of heightened inflation worries, headline
earnings growth at a two year high will not pass unnoticed."


Expectations of an interest rate rise next month were cemented on
Tuesday after annual British inflation surged above the Bank of
England's upper target of 3.0 percent.


After 12-month inflation had hit a decade-high of 3.1 percent
last month, many analysts now believe that the BoE will likely
hike interest rates in May by a quarter-point from the current
level of 5.25 percent.


Also on Wednesday, the ONS said that the number of unemployed in
Britain as measured by the International Labour Organisation rose
by 21,000 to 1.694 million in the three months to February.


The unemployment rate, as measured by the ILO, remained at 5.5
percent in the three months to the end of February, unchanged
from the previous reading.

