

Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. became the world's top selling
automaker in the first quarter of 2007, overtaking US rival
General Motors helped by brisk demand for fuel-efficient cars,
figures showed Tuesday.


Japan's top automaker sold 2.348 million vehicles in the first
quarter of 2007, a company spokesman said, beating GM which
earlier reported record global sales of 2.26 million cars and
trucks for the same period.


Toyota also reported global production of about 2.367 million
vehicles for the first quarter, while GM has forecast lower
output of 2.335 million units.


Toyota is enjoying strong sales, particularly in the United
States, as higher prices at the pump boost demand for compact
cars, small sport utility vehicles and hybrids which use a mix of
electricity and petrol.


"I think the momentum behind Toyota right now is basically
unstoppable," said Christopher Richter, auto analyst at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets.


"You start to wonder, is there a point a few years down the road
where Toyota emerges as the largest automaker in the United
States?"


Toyota is expected to report later this month a seventh
consecutive year of record profits on the back of brisk shipments
overseas.


Toyota has forecast an operating income of 2.20 trillion yen
(18.55 billion dollars) for the fiscal year to March 2007, which
would make it the first Japanese company to post a two trillion
yen operating profit.


"In terms of earnings and cash-flow, Toyota has been already by
far the strongest company globally for a long time," said Tatsuya
Mizuno, an analyst who covers the auto sector for Fitch Ratings.


"I think that the current trend will continue, led by strong
customer support for compact fuel efficient and environmental
friendly cars," he added.


Toyota was a pioneer of environmentally friendly hybrids, which
proved a major hit in the United States, whose own automakers
have spent the last decade focusing on gas-guzzling sports
utility vehicles.


Toyota, however, has been careful not to gloat about its strong
growth for fear of triggering a protectionist backlash in the
United States, its vital market.


"If I would take a word that described the Toyota culture it
would be paranoid," said CLSA's Richter.


"I think that's rather refreshing for a company that's on the
verge of becoming the world's largest automaker," he added.


Struggling GM made a loss of two billion dollars in 2006,
although it earned 950 million dollars in the fourth quarter, its
first quarterly profit in two years thanks to a major cost-
cutting effort.


GM, which was slower than Toyota and other Japanese automakers to
catch on to green technology, is in the midst of a major
restructuring drive. It is shutting several factories and cutting
30,000 jobs by 2008.


Toyota meanwhile has been expanding its production in the United
States to try to avoid trade friction with Washington and just
this month named the head of its fast-growing North American
operations as its first foreign director.


The Japanese automaker last week broke ground on its eighth North
American manufacturing plant, a 1.3 billion-dollar facility in
Blue Springs, Mississippi.

