

Zhou Dong is a polite, articulate boy-next-door type who reveres
his parents. If the government is to be believed, he is also a
threat to China's moral fabric.


The 26-year-old travel agency employee in the central Chinese
city of Changsha is one of thousands of young men across the
country hoping to enter "Happy Boy," China's new all-male answer
to "American Idol".


"I love to sing, and I just want to have the chance to express my
love for my parents for everyone to hear," Zhou says while
relaxing in a coffee shop in Changsha, home to "Happy Boy's"
producers, Hunan Satellite TV.


Crooning a few bars from a syrupy Chinese love ballad, Zhou
clearly seems guilty of little more than an inability to hit the
high notes.


But China's government sees it differently.


The successor to Hunan Satellite's smash hit "Super Girl," "Happy
Boy" is one of many Western-inspired reality shows whose success
has triggered a crackdown by a Communist Party apparently sensing
a destabilising cultural threat.


"Many (reality shows) are low-quality, low-brow programmes only
catering to the bottom end of the market," Wang Taihua, head of
the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, said in
January.


The administration, which acts as the government's TV censor,
this month issued a thumbs-down directly at "Happy Boy" that was
worthy of Simon Cowell, American Idol's famously acerbic judge.


"No weirdness, no vulgarity, no low taste," it told Hunan
Satellite as it listed 11 restrictions for this year's series.


Contestants must only sing "healthy and ethically inspiring"
songs, while the show must not indulge in "gossip". No one aged
under 18 is allowed to apply.


The censor's notice said the rules were aimed at "preparing a
good atmosphere" in society ahead of the ruling Communist Party's
five-yearly National Congress late this year.


"The government worries that the popularity of this type of
entertainment will destroy the mainstream ideology of the party,"
said Zhu Dake, a professor of Chinese culture at Shanghai's
Tongji University.


"Today's culture of entertainment is a double-edged sword; it
brings profits but also can cause the collapse of more refined
cultural values."


China's leaders have declared past wars on various forms of
"spiritual pollution," but face a formidable foe in the reality
show phenomenon.


Three years ago, Hunan Satellite launched its first talent show
in Changsha -- ironically, a short drive from the birthplace of
the founder of Communist China Mao Zedong.


"Super Girl's" huge popularity -- and profitability -- won it a
national audience and spawned myriad imitators among revenue-
hungry local and regional broadcasters. Even Beijing-based party
flagship China Central Television piled in.


Since then, up to 500 reality shows have been created, ranging
from a search for the next Beijing Opera star to a programme
where well-off urbanites temporarily swap lives with poor
farmers.


The Idol-style fare, however, has proven particularly popular in
a music-loving society where people often unabashedly burst into
song in elevators, checkout lines and other public sites.


Last year's "Super Girl" finale drew one of the highest
television audiences in Chinese history, with an estimated 400
million viewers tuning in.


"The impact (of such shows) has been huge, both on culture and
business. But people born in the 1980s or '90s are sinking into a
mess of fanaticism and confusion," said Ma Xiangwu, a culture
critic at People's University in Beijing.


"I think the government and central authorities are very worried
about this."


Yet many see greed behind an official backlash that seems
particularly focused on Hunan Satellite.


Speculation was rife that the broadcaster would be banned from
airing another season this year.


This was averted only when Hunan province's Communist Party boss
personally flew to Beijing to plead for leniency for the
provincial cash cow, according to various media reports.


It gained the green light last month, but only by changing to an
all-male format and jettisoning its valuable brand name in favour
of the childish "Happy Boy".


Theories abound for the change, but it threw Hunan Satellite's
advertising strategy into disarray and was widely seen as an
attempt to prevent the market leader from hoarding too much of
the pie.


"This was about competition. No question," said Hunan Satellite
TV newscaster Zhang Dandan.


"'Super Girl' was built into a powerful brand name, so this is a
big blow for Hunan TV."


How big remains to be seen. The broadcaster -- which received
well over 100,000 entries for Supergirl last year -- began
accepting entries for "Happy Boy" last month.


But the popularity and profitability of such shows could mean
they will remain a cultural thorn in the Communist Party's side
for some time, Ma said.


"To completely ban these shows would be inappropriate. The media,
society and business world demand them. Entertainment and
business are becoming one in China," he said.


As he prepared to enter, Zhou remained bemused about all the
fuss.


"I'm not trying to become a star. This is just fun and a valuable
personal experience. Young Chinese just want to be able to
express themselves."

