

Luis Iriondo can still see the low-flying German warplanes that
dropped bombs on Guernica nearly 70 years ago, destroying his
hometown in the northern Basque region of Spain.


"I only thought of one thing: getting out alive," he said as he
pointed to what remains of the bomb shelter in the centre of the
town where he hid.


"I tried to pray but it was impossible with the constant tension,
the waiting to know where the next bomb would fall," added
Iriondo, who was 14 when the planes attacked on April 26, 1937.


The bombing by the Condor Legion aircraft backing the right-wing
forces of General Francisco Franco during Spain's 1936-39 Civil
War leveled three-quarters of the historic town, which was home
to some 6,000 people at the time.


The suggestion that a defenceless civilian population had been
deliberately targeted transformed Guernica into a symbol of the
horrors of a conflict that killed a half-million people on both
sides.


It also inspired Pablo Picasso's immense 1937 wall mural of the
same name, "Guernica," which many consider modern art's most
potent anti-war icon.


Representatives from three other cities which were later bombed
by airplanes -- Coventry, Dresden and Hiroshima -- are scheduled
to attend a ceremony on Thursday in Guernica to mark the 70th
anniversary of the bombing.


Pedro Balino, who was 16 at the time, recalled how the bombs
continued to explode even after the planes has disappeared from
the sky.


"Guernica was on fire everywhere, many bombs which fell didn't
explode right away but did so with the heat, so hours later we
could still hear explosions," he said as he showed old photos of
the ruined town.


The planes were flying so low he could see the pilots' faces,
said Balino. He sought safety with a friend in a hill above the
town from where they watched the bombing of the town.


But while memories of the attack are seared deep in the minds of
roughly 200 survivors known to be alive today, the aim of the
bombing as well as its death toll still spark debate.


Basque government officials initially spoke of 800 deaths, a
figure which they later revised upwards to 1,654.


British journalist George Steer put the death toll in the
hundreds in an article published two days after the attack on the
front page of The New York Times, but only on page 17 of The
Times of London.


His reports -- which helped rivet world attention on the incident
-- described how planes dropped thousands of bombs on the town
before they machine-gunned residents who were trying to flee the
ensuing fires.


"In the form of its execution and the scale of the destruction it
wrought, no less than in the selection of its objective, the raid
on Guernica is unparalleled in military history," Steer wrote.


Estimates by historians today put the toll at between 300 to
1,000 deaths.


Iriondo, who was not with his family when the bombing started,
recalled coming across scores of corpses and badly injured people
in a desperate search for his mother, whom he found alive, on the
evening of the attack.


"We went by a spot, a small hollow, which a friend had said the
day before would be a good place to seek shelter and see
everything in case of a bombing. There was a heap of bodies there
including his," said Iriondo.


Franco, who ruled Spain with an iron fist after the civil war
ended until his death in 1975, initially accused Republican
forces of having put Guernica on fire.


Franco's Nationalist cohorts later put the blame for the attack
on the Germans, who claimed they had only intended to bomb a
bridge and an arms factory located near Guernica.


Survivors like Balino flatly reject this version of events. The
bridge and the factory survived the bombing, he pointed out.


For Iriondo the attack "was an act of terrorism" by Franco's
forces aimed at getting the independent-minded Basques to submit
to his side.


"By terrorizing the civilian population, they wanted to speed up
the rendition of the Basque army," he said.


Historical investigations, particularly extensive research
carried out by British journalist Gordon Thomas in the 1970s,
offered strong evidence that the bombing was was carried out by
Franco's forces in concert with the Nazis.


Several historians believe Adolf Hitler's army used Guernica to
test the military tactics which he used during World War II two
years later.


Still, some on the right in Spain -- which remains divided over
its bloody civil war -- downplay the the attack on Guernica.


In his top-selling 2006 book on the conflict called "La Guerra
Que Gano Franco" or "The War Franco Won," historian Cesar Vidal,
a political conservative, called the bombing of Guernica a "minor
episode" which killed just over one hundred people.


The deaths are mostly to blame on the "lamentable incompetence"
of the local authorities who were not able to put out the fires
and build shelters, he said.


Guernica, which lies at the base of an estuary surrounded by lush
pastures and forested hills, has since been rebuilt and is now
home to around 15,000 people.


But there are no longer any picturesque narrow streets and old
buildings as in its neighbouring towns.

