

Tamil Tiger rebels flying light aircraft bombed Sri Lanka's
northern Jaffna peninsula Tuesday and launched an artillery
attack, killing at least six soldiers, officials and the rebels
said.


In their second air strike in as many months, Liberation Tigers
of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said two
light aircraft were flown over the key Palaly air field just
after midnight.


"We have carried out our second air attack... on the Palaly air
field and their military stores," he said by satellite telephone
from the north of the island.


The rebels, whose drawn-out campaign for independence for the
ethnic Tamil minority has left more than 60,000 dead, carried out
their first air strike on Sri Lankan forces last month using two
single-engined, Czech-made training planes.


The first attack saw the guerrillas drop six bombs on the
island's main military air base, which shares a runway with Sri
Lanka's only international airport.


The government insisted the second Tiger attack inflicted little
damage.


"The security forces acted promptly, alerted through the air
defence systems, and launched a counter air offensive at a
suspected aircraft... forcing it to change course immediately,"
the defence ministry said.


Military sources said six troopers were killed and 13 wounded in
the Tiger air attack. The defence ministry said the Tigers also
carried out a simultaneous artillery attack.


Sri Lanka's army chief Lieutenant General Sarath Fonseka,
however, said the aircraft changed course to bomb a nearby army
detachment.


"Troops at the forward defence lines saw them (Tiger aircraft)
coming and alerted the Palaly base, and they used all their
resources to direct fire at the aircraft," Fonseka said.


He said the military switched off lights, rolled out heavy guns
and opened fire. However, the guerrilla aircraft managed to
escape.


Tiger spokesman Ilanthiriyan said their pilots saw flames after
dropping bombs on the sprawling military complex. It is the main
military complex in Jaffna, a former Tiger bastion captured by
government troops in December 1995.


The pro-rebel tamilnet.com website said explosions were heard
from within the high security zone of Palaly following the Tiger
attack. It also said that electricity and mobile phone networks
in the area were cut off by authorities for several hours.


Tamilnet said heavy clashes were also reported along the
frontlines on the Jaffna peninsula.


The Tigers failed to break the defence lines and move into Jaffna
in August last year, and since then the main land route to Jaffna
has remained shut.


The military depends on air and sea transport to ferry supplies
to 40,000 security personnel and more than 350,000 civilians
living in government-held parts of the peninsula.


Since the first Tiger air attack, the Sri Lankan military has
acquired night- flying capabilities and said it has bombed
several suspected Tiger targets, including guerrilla naval
assets, communications facilities and training camps.


Hours before Tuesday's pre-dawn attack, a roadside bomb killed
five people and wounded 33 in Vavuniya, which is next to a rebel-
held area, the defence ministry said earlier.


The government on Monday asked peace broker Norway to put off a
visit to rebel- held territory by their ambassador, citing
security considerations.

