

Japanese auto maker Nissan Motor, hoping to get out of what it
has called a performance crisis, said Tuesday it plans to cut at
least 1,500 domestic jobs by introducing an early retirement
programme.


The move marks Nissan's first domestic job cuts in eight years as
Japan's second-largest automaker does not expect sales to recover
strongly in the near future.


Under the plan, Nissan Motor Co. Ltd. will seek volunteers aged
45 and above to take early retirement from June with an extra
allowance depending upon service years.


Some 12,000 employees in Japan will qualify for the programme but
"obviously we are not expecting all our employees who are over 45
to pack up and retire overnight," Nissan spokeswoman Pauline Kee
said.


"The number that we really expect is 1,500," the spokeswoman
said, hinting that the programme may affect its earnings for the
year to March 2007, which will be announced on Thursday.


In an effort to cope with sluggish sales, Nissan this month began
scaling back production at its Oppama plant in Kanagawa,
southwest of Tokyo, and another facility in Tochigi, northeast of
the capital.


The automaker embarked on a restructuring drive in 1999 under
president Carlos Ghosn, who cut 16,500 domestic jobs as he
steered the company from the brink of bankruptcy back to record
profits.


Nissan has already said it expects its net profit to slip in the
year to March 2007, the first time this has happened since Ghosn
took over.


Nissan, which is 44 percent owned by France's Renault, said in
February net profits would slide by over 11 percent due to poor
sales, particularly in its home market.


Ghosn, who earned a loyal fan base as the first foreigner to head
a major Japanese company and also heads France's Renault, has
said Nissan is in a "performance crisis."


In the United States, Nissan announced a similar voluntary lay-
off plan at its two its Tennessee plants in February as part of
its effort to streamline operations amid a slump in the US
market.


The firm had initially expected 300 of 6,200 eligible employees
would apply, but the number of applicants rose to 775, the
spokeswoman said. Nissan saw US sales fall 5.3 percent in 2006.


In March, Nissan separately announced plans to halve its domestic
sales workforce of 2,300 by 2010 as it restructures in its home
market where it has suffered from poor sales.

