

Cost cutting in government health budgets and the expiry of
patent protection hit the global pharmaceuticals industry hard
last year for the second time, and worse is to come, a new study
says.


Corinne Segalen, the president of IMS Health, France, told a news
conference when publishing its annual sector study that the
industry had had a "tumultuous" year, as it began to feel the
impact of developments that would weigh on the industry for the
next decade.


"The worst is yet to come," Segalen said, saying the restrictive
impact on potential earnings and sales in 2006 had been a record.


According to the IMS Health study, published last week, the world
pharmaceuticals market grew by seven percent over the year to
clock up 643 billion dollars (472 billion euros) of sales.


While this represents a slight improvement compared to 2005, when
the industry grew 6.8 percent, it is lower than the two digit-
growth figures struck in the years up to 2003, IMS said.


After registering 14.5 percent growth in 1999, the industry
slowed to 10.4 percent in 2003 before dipping below the
10-percent growth mark in 2004 to eight percent.


The loss of patent protection and increased impact of generic
medicines constrained earnings to the extent of 18 billion
dollars, after 14 billion dollars in 2005, she said.


Pharmaceutical firms are expected to see a similar dip in their
revenues this year, before losing a mighty 24 billion dollars in
2008, and 25 billion in 2010 due to the loss of patent
protection.


Segalen pointed to the example of cardiovascular drugs, which she
said would be 80 percent dominated by generic medicines by around
2011.


The pharmaceutical industry also has to face up to decisions by
governments drastically to cut health spending," she said.


The study also pointed to the impact on growth of more in-depth
discussion of the benefits and risks of medicines, along with an
inexorable development of distribution networks and a growth of
restructuring and mergers, in particular for medium-sized
companies.


Three major mergers took place over the year between Merck and
Serono, Altana and Nycomed and UCB and Schwarz Pharma.


Over the year sector growth was driven by the United States which
still accounts for one half of the world market. However, the
market is starting to balance out with 27 percent of the growth
taking place in low revenue countries.


Sector growth was at 8.1 percent in the United States, the first
growth registered there since 2003 as the market benefited from
an increase in health reimbursements by Medicare.


The market grew 3.5 percent in France, 4.1 percent in Britain, 11
percent in Brazil, while it declined in Japan by 0.7 percent.


A total of 31 new compounds were marketed in 2006, after 30 in
2005. Among them seven, of which the obesity drug Acomplia made
by Sanofi-Aventis and the Champix anti-smoking drug of Pfizer
have the potential to become "blockbusters", the name for
medicines generating more than a billion in sales, IMS said.

