

Riot police and protesters gathered Tuesday outside an Indonesian
court ahead of a ruling on whether US mining firm Newmont was
guilty of pollution in a case with wide-ranging implications for
the nation.


About 100 protesters were on hand for the verdict in the town of
Manado, chanting anti-mining slogans and waving banners accusing
Newmont, the world's largest gold miner, of being an
"environmental criminal."


Prosecutors have called for Newmont executive Richard Ness to be
jailed for three years for alleged pollution in a drawn-out and
high-profile case closely watched by foreign investors and
environmentalists.


Ness and the Indonesian unit of Newmont that he headed have been
charged with dumping tonnes of waste containing mercury and
arsenic from its now closed gold mine on Sulawesi island.


Ness and PT Newmont Minahasa Raya were also accused of making
villagers ill and poisoning marine life with waste dumped into
Buyat Bay, around 2,300 kilometres (1,400 miles) northeast of
Jakarta.


The company faces a fine up to 110,000 dollars.


Anti-riot police surrounded the courthouse Tuesday morning as the
protesters chanted, banged drums and waved banners. Newmont
supporters also joined the throng.


About 50 villagers who complained about pollution in 2004 were
also on hand but were stopped from entering the court in Manado
in northern Sulawesi.


"They said last time we could come in if we had a letter from the
village chief but now they are saying no," said Anwar Stirman.


The five judges in the case started reading their verdict just
after 0100 GMT, and the process was expected to take at least an
hour.


The verdict comes after a 20-month trial in Manado and almost
three years of legal wrangling between Newmont, the Indonesian
government and prosecutors.


Newmont has warned it would be forced to reconsider its
investments in the resource-rich nation if found guilty, and the
business community is concerned about a climate of uncertainty
that such a verdict could create.


Ness said Tuesday he was confident of being acquitted.


"The people outside (protesters) have different opinions but
there is only one set of facts. Environmental pollution cannot be
decided by opinion," he said.


"This process could have been resolved a long time ago but now
that we are at this stage we cannot say we have not had the
opportunity to present all of the evidence," he said.


Complaints from villagers living around the bay include
headaches, skin rashes and tumours, which they blamed on the mine
-- prompting a police investigation and charges against Newmont
in August 2005.


The company has repeatedly denied the claims, saying it disposed
of toxins safely and that levels of mercury and arsenic were
within acceptable levels.


Studies of the water around the bay have shown conflicting
results. A World Health Organisation-backed report found no
evidence of pollution, but government tests showed high levels of
toxins.

