

The police bus screeches to a halt at a Tehran square packed with
traffic. The officers leap out and begin spot checks on passing
pedestrians and cars.


Police work apparently like any other place in the world.


But here in the Iranian capital their targets are women deemed to
have infringed the Islamic republic's strict dress rules.


"For God's sake no pictures!" yells a mother whose daughter has
just been stopped by the male officers for her Islamic headscarf
(hijab) being pushed too far back and revealing an excessive
amount of hair.


The dusk patrol in Tehran's western quarter of Shahrak-e Gharb is
part of a nationwide crackdown aimed at "guiding" women to adhere
to the Islamic dress code, which since the 1979 revolution
requires women in Iran to cover their heads and bodily contours.


The authorities insist that the drive is more aimed at
encouragement and Islamic guidance than coercion, with arrest a
last resort if women show a reluctance to change their ways.


"When we stop a vehicle, we politely tell them to correct their
hijab. If our advice is carried out, then we leave it at that,"
police Corporal Habib Mohammad told an AFP reporter who was taken
on the patrol.


"If not and the female passenger or driver shouts back, then we
will ask her for her car's document, and we will stop her car and
take her case to the police station."


The crackdown is a regular event in late spring in Tehran ahead
of the hot summer but appears to have been flagged with more
prominence in the media and is being pursued with more vigor by
authorities this year, as hem lines become higher and headscarves
ever skimpier.


The boldness of some women in Tehran in showing fashionably
styled hair peeking out from beneath their headscarves, wearing
trousers that reveal naked ankles and figure hugging mantos
(coats) has infuriated conservatives.


Hardline sections of the press and conservative MPs have
vehemently backed the police's decision to enforce a "combatting
and guidance drive" against the wishes of those who preferred a
more softly-softly approach.


"The current situation is shameful for an Islamic government. A
man who sees these models on the streets will pay no attention to
his wife at home, destroying the foundation of the family," said
Mohammad Taghi Rahbar, a member of the culture committee of the
Iranian parliament.


When the conservative Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected president
in June 2005 there were expectations that the authorities would
clamp down firmly on women's dress in public. But fashions on the
streets show nothing has changed.


A media advisor to Ahmadinejad issued a statement thanking Iran's
police chief Esmaeel Ahmadi Moghadam for "promoting virtues and
combatting vice" with the new crackdown.


"I see that your force has entered combat with this cultural
invasion and, in its dirtier form, 'cultural NATO' through
scientific means and I sincerely thank you and your colleagues,"
said Mehdi Kalhor.


However the exchanges between police and public on the street
showed that the approach has not won universal popularity.


"This is a not good plan, the way they carry it out," said a
young woman who would only identify herself as a clerk.


"Why should they bother themselves with what people wear? Their
presence increases one's level of stress. Our parents are okay
with what we wear, why should they care?" she said.


"If they want to stop vice, then why are these clothes imported?
If they really want to deal with the problem then they should
prevent the merchants from importing these mantos, pants, and
scarves," said a shopkeeper.


A bearded man who identified himself as Mr Mohammadian, a civil
servant approached reporters to complain: "They arrested my
daughter last night on Jordan street. She was sitting in her
friend's car."


"They were stopped for a few strands of hair, her friend's car
was impounded. Students should be treated with care. If they are
bothered they will leave Iran, we need to keep these people at
home," he told a police officer.


"I am a war veteran, I paid my dues for the revolution, please, I
plead with you, go and check, there was a car impounded last
night on Jordan Street with two girls in it. This is not the way
to treat our youth."


The head of Tehran's police information centre, Colonel Mehdi
Ahmadi replied: "Certainly, in carrying out a large scale
operation, there can be some degree of error. We will look into
it."

