

Nepal marks the first anniversary of the end of King Gyanendra's
absolute rule Tuesday with huge progress under its belt but tough
challenges ahead on the road to democracy.


Since violent street protests forced the king to restore
parliament, Maoist rebels have ended their decade-long insurgency
and joined a new interim government as part of a landmark peace
deal with mainstream parties.


"Its a long way for a country to come after 10 years of bitter
armed conflict," said Ian Martin, the head of the United Nations
Mission in Nepal.


"The Maoists have come from the countryside into the political
process, the Maoist army has placed its weapons under storage and
UN monitoring, and we now have the interim parliament and
government that the Maoists have entered."


The breakneck changes will be celebrated Tuesday, and will
include the Nepalese army -- once fiercely loyal to the monarchy
-- in a clear effort to dispel any talk about cracks in the peace
process.


The army will fire a five-gun salute in the capital, Kathmandu,
to commemorate the massive protests, and will drop flower petals
during a planned helicopter fly over, state-run media reported.


"This celebration is about the achievement of the Nepali people,
who were the driving force in bringing the king down to his
knees," said Matrika Yadav, a Maoist and now Nepal's minister for
forest and soil conservation.


Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala, the architect of the peace
deal, will deliver a "Democracy Day" message, and Maoist leader
Prachanda is expected to address a mass gathering in Kathmandu.


"As the process of making a new Nepal has already begun, such an
event is necessary to let the people know that we (the
government) are committed to bringing the people's aspirations
for a republic," Yadav said.


The king had seized power by claiming the elected government had
failed to quash the decade-long Maoist rebellion and the country
was headed for anarchy.


But his heavy-handed crackdown on free speech -- including mass
arrests of protesters and shutting down or censoring media --
quickly led to a surge in anti-royal sentiment.


At least 19 people died and 5,000 were injured in last year's
protests, which forced the king to relinquish direct rule and see
a peace deal struck instead.


But a range of other issues threaten to make the road ahead for
the peace deal a rocky one.


These include arguments over the date of constituent assembly
polls needed to elect a body to rewrite the constitution and
decide on what, if any, future there is for the king.


The Maoists are impatient for the country to be declared a
republic and have threatened to step up their campaign if the
polls are not held on time in June, as specified by the peace
deal. Nepal's election chief, however, said he needed more time.


The Maoists, who still feature on Washington's list of foreign
"terrorist" organisations, are also facing continued allegations
of mafia-like conduct including extortion, kidnappings and
beatings.


Officials are also wrestling with the fallout from brutal clashes
between Maoists and Mahadesis -- a major ethnic group in the
southern plains -- with the Maoists accusing the sidelined king
of provoking the violence.


"If the government miscalculates with the Mahadhesi movement and
fails to address the issues in a timely fashion, there is the
potential for a separatist movement," said C.K. Lal, a political
analyst and columnist with the Nepali Times English language
weekly.


The Mahadhesis, who make up about half of Nepal's 27 million
population, have long complained about being under-represented in
government and resent the Maoists' new role.


"The state needs to be more inclusive before the situation gets
totally out of hand," Lal told AFP.


Not celebrating on Tuesday will be the king, viewed by loyalists
as a Hindu deity but now stripped of his title of head of state
and position as head of the army.


"The king has been the biggest loser and he has nobody to blame
but himself. He gambled the institution of monarchy for his own
benefit," said Kapil Shrestha, a political analyst and professor
from Nepal's Tribhuvan University.

