

The private equity consortium bidding to buy Australian national
airline Qantas launched a fresh appeal Tuesday for shareholders
to accept an offer analysts said was looking increasingly shaky.


Airline Partners Australia (APA) urged shareholders "Accept now
-- the best Qantas share price ever," in advertisements posted in
the country's major newspapers.


APA, which said Sunday that it would not extend its 11.1 billion
dollar (9.2 billion US) offer beyond May 4, pointed out that
Qantas shares had never traded as high as its 5.45 dollars offer
price.


It also warned that the current share price, which closed down
one cent at 5.36 Tuesday -- would drop if the offer failed,
saying the Qantas board had unanimously backed the bid as "fair
and reasonable".


But figures released Tuesday by APA showed acceptances remained
stalled at 27.8 percent, well short of the 70 percent it set for
the takeover to proceed.


The acceptances represented a slight advance on the 27.48 percent
posted Friday but analysts said they showed shareholders remained
sceptical about the bid.


Qantas' share price has increased by more than 20 percent since
the bid was launched late last year but rival Virgin Blue has
risen more than 30 percent over the same period and Air New
Zealand shares have almost doubled.


Shaw Stockbroking head of research Brent Mitchell said recent
data showing a jump in Qantas passenger numbers had fuelled
speculation the airline was poised to announce its fourth profit
upgrade in as many months.


"Conditions in the local aviation market look favourable at the
moment and the outlook for Qantas is better than it was when the
bid was launched," he said.


"Shareholders are waiting to see what happens; they don't want to
join the acceptances because it locks up their shares and reduces
their options."


With one institutional investor, Balanced Equity Management,
already refusing to sell because it believes the APA offer
undervalues the company, Mitchell said shareholders were playing
a waiting game.


The newspaper advertisements underlined APA's desire to have the
takeover wrapped up as soon as possible.


"With takeovers, it's often a question of momentum," Mitchell
said. "There may be a flood of late acceptances but I don't know.


"The assumption that acceptances would rise with the reduction of
the acceptance threshold (to 70 percent from the previous 90
percent) certainly hasn't been realised."


Mitchell remained cautiously optimistic the bid would succeed.


"I think they'll get there but I'm not overly confident," he
said.


In a bid to win over investors, APA said Sunday that it it would
pay shareholders who accepted the offer within five days of the
bid closing, down from the previous 30 days.


It also said it would allow shareholders to withdraw their
acceptances at any time before the offer is declared
unconditional.


"APA is aware that an overwhelming majority of small and large
Qantas shareholders support the offer," APA director Bob
Mansfield said.


"Now is the time for those supportive shareholders to accept. If
the bid fails, the share price will almost certainly fall."


While APA said it would not extend the offer beyond May 4, it
will be automatically kept open for 14 days beyond that date if
the bidder receives 50 percent acceptances by then.


Analysts have upgraded their earnings expectations for Qantas
since the takeover bid was launched late last year and the
airline itself expects this year's annual net profit to be up to
40 percent higher than the previous year.

