

Long-term research into obesity suggests that being breastfed as
a child does not help prevent obesity later in life, a finding
that contradicts guidelines in the United States and elsewhere.


Investigators in the United States looked at the health of 35,000
nurses working in the US between 1989 and 2001.


They asked the nurses' mothers to report on their breastfeeding
habits when their child was a newborn, while the nurses
themselves were asked to report their height, their current
weight and their weight at 18.


The nurses were also asked to recall their body shape at ages
five and 10 using a nine-level figure drawing.


Duration of breastfeeding did not affect the body mass index
(BMI) -- a key indicator of fat -- in adulthood, according to
their paper, which appears in the International Journal of
Obesity.


Women who had been breastfed for more than nine months had a risk
of becoming overweight or obese that was similar to that of women
who had been breastfed for less than a week or exclusively
bottle-fed.


"Breastfeeding, as good as it is, is not a solution to the
obesity epidemic," Karin Michels, associate professor at Harvard
Medical School and lead author of the study, told AFP.


"It's important to realize that there are much more important
causes and reasons for the obesity epidemic."


The researchers found that women who had been breastfed for
several months were indeed slightly slimmer in early childhood
compared with those who had been bottle-fed.


But this difference is of "borderline statistical significance,"
according to Michels.


The mooted reason: breast-fed infants start off skinnier, but
this is probably due to the natural limitations of available food
in their first year of life -- and the difference does not extend
to later years.


Breastfeeding does provide plenty of other benefits to mother and
child, Michels pointed out.


Its vital nutrients help the child to build up its immune system
and, as has been recently discovered, lessens a mother's risk for
diabetes and heart disease, Michels said.


The paper contradicts the recommendations of the US Centers for
Disease Control (CDC) and the European Union's Childhood Obesity
Programme, which promote breastfeeding as a method for
controlling childhood obesity, with the eventual aim of curbing
adolescent and adult obesity.


In another study released on Tuesday, the British journal
Archives of Disease in Childhood concluded that primary
schoolchildren should not be routinely screened for obesity and
weight problems if there are no means to treat them.


The British government has introduced population weight
monitoring in primary schools.


But the authors, led by Marie Westwood of the University of York,
northern England, found no evidence to say the screening strategy
worked and suggested it may even be potentially harmful if
counselling and other help were not available.


Obesity is gaining pandemic proportions in many developed
countries but also in emerging economies. Experts point the
finger at sedentary lifestyle, persistent snacking and food that
is rich in calories. Genetic factors, too, may be significant.

