

The United States is to announce within six months the location
of a new Africa command to oversee US military activities on the
continent, a top Defense Department official said Monday.


"Our thinking is still evolving," said Principal Deputy Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy Ryan Henry, adding that a
decision was expected "prior to the beginning of October" and the
Pentagon would like to see the Africa command fully operational
by September 2008.


"The only major decision that's been made is that the commander
of AFRICOM will be stationed ... specifically ... on the
continent," he said following in-depth talks earlier this month
with African leaders on the strategic site of the command center.


"We have to be very sensitive to where we put the headquarters
and what the headquarters look like," said Henry, stressing that
its "principal mission will be in the area of security
cooperation and building partnership capability. It will not be
in warfighting."


Creation of the new command comes amid stepped up US military
activities in the region, much of it aimed at denying new havens
for militant Islamic groups aligned with Al-Qaeda.


Africa "is emerging on the world scene as a strategic player and
we need to deal with it as a continent," said Henry, who just
returned from an April 15-21 trip to Nigeria, South Africa,
Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana and Senegal for talks for opening the
regional command.


Henry cautioned that the headquarters may not be located in one
of those six countries since the United States was still in
"fact-gathering mode," and said much of the talks during his tour
centered on clearing up "a number of misunderstandings."


Among them, the establishment of AFRICOM "did not mean that there
would be additional US forces put on the continent," nor did it
mean "a dramatic increase in resources to the African continent
from the Department of Defense or from the US government."


He also denied various allegations about US government's intent
in setting up AFRICOM.


"AFRICOM was not being stood up in response to a Chinese presence
on the continent, it was not being stood up solely for the effort
of enhanced counterterrorism, and it was not being stood up in
order to secure resources, of particular sensitivity to the oil
resources."


President George W. Bush decided in February to create an African
regional command but did not say where.


The Pentagon's coverage of Africa is currently divided into three
regional commands. Central Command (CENTCOM), based in Tampa,
Florida, is in charge of US military operations in the Middle
East and Afghanistan as well as Egypt, Sudan and the Horn of
Africa.


The European Command (EUCOM), based in Stuttgart, Germany, is
responsible for the rest of Africa. Pacific Command (PACOM),
based in Hawaii, is responsible for the island of Madagascar.


The US military has for four years maintained a base in the Horn
of Africa's Djibouti, which is bordered by Ethiopia and Somalia
and is where 1,700 US soldiers are deployed.


US forces in December and January backed an Ethiopian military
offensive to oust Somali Islamists who were controlling much of
central and southern Somalia and were accused of protecting Al-
Qaeda militants.

