

Officials in Guernica have renewed calls for Picasso's
masterpiece representing the destruction of the Basque town in
northern Spain by German warplanes 70 years ago to be put on
display there.


"We shall continue to demand it, it belongs to the dead, to the
survivors," the mayor of Guernica, Miguel Angel Aranaz, told AFP
ahead of a ceremony on Thursday to mark the 70th anniversary of
the bombing that leveled the town.


Named after the Basque town, the huge black and white painting is
considered by many as modern art's most powerful anti-war symbol.
It has been on display since 1992 in Madrid at the Reina Sofia
Art Centre.


Musuem directors categorically refuse to allow the oil painting
to travel anywhere because of its advanced state of
deterioration, a decision backed by Prime Minister Jose Luis
Rodriguez Zapatero.


The mural, which is 3.5 metres (11 feet) tall and 7.8 metres
wide, was exhibited in more than 50 different palces around the
world between 1937 and 1957, including Brazil, Germany and the
United States.


The frequent moves during this time damaged the painting and it
is now very fragile, the head of the museum's conservation
department, Jorge Garcia, told AFP last year.


"It is unthinkable to wrap it up again, anyone who desires this
is crazy," he said at the time.


Assigned to paint a mural for Spain's pavilion at the 1937
World's Fair in Paris, Picasso decided to represent the bombing
of Guernica by German planes backing the right-wing forces of
General Francisco Franco during Spain's 1936-39 Civil War.


The attack on April 26, 1937 leveled three-quarters of the
historic town, killing hundreds of the roughly 6,000 people which
called it home at the time.


"In the panel on which I am working, which I shall call Guernica,
and in all my recent works of art, I clearly express my
abhorrence of the military caste which has sunk Spain in an ocean
of pain and death," Picasso was quoted as saying as he worked on
the mural.


After Franco won the civil war and established a dictatorship,
Picasso arranged for the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York
keep the painting for as long as he was in power.


During the Vietnam War, the room housing "Guernica" at the US
musuem became the site of occasional anti-war vigils.


Franco died in 1975 -- two years after Picasso -- and in 1981 the
painting arrived in newly democratic Spain where it was housed
first in an annex of Madrid's Prado museum before being moved to
the Reina Sofia, which is named after Spain's current queen.


The regional Basque government, led by nationalists, first asked
Madrid in April last year to allow the painting to be exhibited
"temporarily" at Bilbao's Guggenheim museum for the 70th
anniversary of the Guernica bombing.


For many Basques "Guernica" is an important symbol of their
national identity as the town is considered the centre of their
cultural traditions.


Many across Spain however have come to see the painting as a
symbol of the civil war that killed half a million people on both
sides.


Keeping the painting in Madrid, one of Europe's most visited
cities, would ensure more people get a chance to see the work,
opponents of moving it argue.

