

Japan has agreed to scrap its universal inspections of US beef in
return for sending its own inspectors to US meatpacking plants,
the two governments said Tuesday.


The announcement comes two days before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
heads to Washington, where lawmakers from cattle-grazing states
are demanding Japan ease restrictions imposed over concerns about
mad-cow disease.


Under the agreement, Japan will send inspectors to US meatpacking
plants. If their standards are up to par, Japan will accept
imports from the plants without checking every shipment.


"The inspections which Japan has been calling for have been
accepted. This is big progress because they will confirm safety,"
Japan's agriculture minister Toshikatsu Matsuoka told reporters.


US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns said Japanese inspectors
will get to work as soon as possible.


"Once the verification process is complete, Japan will
discontinue its requirement of inspecting 100 percent of the
boxes of beef shipped from US plants," Johanns said in a
statement.


He called the agreement "important first steps in our effort to
expand US beef trade with Japan."


Beef in recent years has turned into a major sore point between
the close political allies.


Japan, formerly the top overseas market for US beef, has halted
imports twice since 2003 due to scares over bovine spongiform
encephalopathy (BSE), the brain- wasting condition commonly known
as mad cow disease.


Faced with threats of sanctions, Japan in July agreed to resume
US beef imports on condition the cattle were 20 months old or
younger at the time of slaughter, with brains, spinal cords and
other risky parts removed.


Japan has steadfastly rejected US calls to lower the age. It has
also suspended imports from three meatpacking plants for
violating safety rules.


Despite the resumption of US beef imports, consumption in Japan
remains far below previous levels after years of bad publicity.


The United States has also lobbied for other Asian nations to
reopen to their markets to US beef. South Korea on Monday resumed
US beef imports after sealing a landmark free-trade pact with
Washington.

