

A press freedom group called Tuesday for Singapore to reverse its
ban on a film about a former political detainee.


Paris-based Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said the ban was
"another authoritarian measure violating press freedom" in the
city-state.


Singapore banned the film on former detainee Said Zahari, calling
it a "misleading and distorted portrayal" of his detention which
could undermine confidence in the government.


The film "Zahari's 17 Years" was directed by Singaporean
filmmaker Martyn See, who had earlier been investigated by police
for making a film on opposition leader Chee Soon Juan.


"The ban on See's film must be lifted," RSF said in a statement.


"This act of censorship is all the more inappropriate and
ridiculous as his films are available on websites," it said.


"We call for the liberalisation of the censorship and internal
security laws that deprive Singaporeans of an environment
favourable to free speech."


Singapore's ministry of information said See's film "gives a
distorted and misleading portrayal of Zahari's arrest and
detention under the Internal Security Act in 1963."


It called the film "an attempt to exculpate himself from his past
involvement in communist united front activities against the
interest of Singapore."


In the film, the elderly self-exiled journalist, poet and author
reflects on his 17 years in detention.


Singapore has often been criticised by human rights and media
groups for maintaining strict political controls despite its
rapid economic modernisation.


But the government says the strict laws are necessary to maintain
law and order -- a pillar of the country's economic prosperity.


On Friday, producers of a Singapore film about a man and boy
struggling with their mutual sexual desire said they had
withdrawn it from public screening at the city-state's film
festival.


The decision to withdraw "Solos" came after Singapore censors
made three cuts to scenes depicting homosexual and group sex, the
Singapore International Film Festival (SIFF) told AFP.

