

Richard Hamilton and Chauncey Billups reached double figures for
the second straight game as Detroit posted a 98-90 win over
Orlando in game two of their first round playoff series.


Hamilton scored 12 of his 22 points in the fourth quarter on
Monday and fellow all-star Chauncey Billups had 21 and eight
assists for Detroit, which has a two- games-to-none edge in the
series.


"We're up 2-0. We took care of business at home," Hamilton said.
"Now it's important for us to go out there and continue to play
well, try to get one game at a time out there in Orlando."


Game three of the National Basketball Association series is in
Orlando on Thursday.


"It's a pivotal swing. We can't let them get back into the
series," Detroit forward Rasheed Wallace said. "We have to get
that third win."


In Saturday's series opener, Saunders' starting lineup of
Billups, Hamilton, Chris Webber, Rasheed Wallace and Tayshaun
Prince combined for 84 of the Pistons 100 points.


"I might be wrong, but I think they've got five all-stars out
there so it isn't just that they are balanced," Magic coach Brian
Hill said.


"They are balanced and they are good. You have to play solid team
defence against them, because they are used to playing together
and they are very unselfish. It's tough."


On Monday, the Pistons led, 47-44, at intermission before
supplying a comfortable cushion in the third period.


Prince drained a three-pointer and Billups made a driving layup,
capping a 20-10 surge for a 67-54 edge at the 3:02 mark.


Detroit shot 45 percent (nine-of-20) from the floor in the
period.


Former Piston and 2003 second overall selection Darko Milicic's
hook helped Orlando pull within 78-70 with 7:18 remaining in the
decisive quarter.


Hedo Turkoglu's pull-up jumper cut Orlando's deficit to seven
points, but on the ensuing possession Wallace nailed a wild one-
handed three-pointer off the glass as the shot clock expired to
rebuild a double-digit lead at 88-78 with 3:24 left.


But just like in game one, the Magic did not surrender as Milicic
and Jameer Nelson scored on back-to-back trips to close within
88-82 with 1:29 remaining.


However, Billups responded when he converted a three-point play
at the one- minute mark to extend the advantage to a nine-point
cushion.


Turkoglu poured in 22 points and Grant Hill - another former
Piston - added 21 and eight assists for the Magic, who shot 46
percent (35-of-76) and have lost five straight playoff games
against Detroit.


Orlando all-star forward Dwight Howard finished with just eight
points in 35 minutes.

