

Australia and New Zealand have warned citizens travelling to
Turkey for World War I commemoration ceremonies on Wednesday of a
"high threat" of terrorist attacks in the country.


Thousands of Australians and New Zealanders travel to Gallipoli
each year on Anzac Day to honour their soldiers who served and
died in the battle for the peninsular on the Turkish coast, which
began at dawn on April 25, 1915.


"Recent credible reports indicate that terrorists are preparing
to resume attacks in Turkey in April and May 2007," Australia's
foreign affairs department said, calling the threat level "high."


New Zealand's foreign affairs department warned of "a strong
likelihood" of terrorist activity following recent attacks in
Istanbul, Izmir and Diyarbakir.


Australian Prime Minister John Howard said the government admired
the commitment people showed in visiting Gallipoli, but it was
necessary to let them know "there is an element of danger."


"This is always hard because if we don't issue these travel
warnings in response to the advice we get and something goes
wrong people are entitled to say 'Why didn't you tell us?'" he
told national radio.


New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark also supported the
warnings, but said she was confident security would be strong.


"While people should of course be wary, bear in mind that you
have a security force there that is really trying its very best
to make sure everything goes smoothly," she said.


Some 8,709 Australians and 2,701 New Zealanders were killed in
nine months of gruelling warfare after the Australia and New
Zealand Army Corps (Anzac) troops waded ashore at Gallipoli.


The invasion -- a bid by the allies to open a new front in the
war against Germany which ended in defeat and withdrawal from the
peninsula -- also took the lives of more than 21,000 British
troops, 9,800 French soldiers, 1,300 Indians and some 86,000
Turks.


The battle is seen as a defining moment in the history of the
young nations of Australia and New Zealand, where Anzac Day has
become a memorial day for all fallen troops and both countries'
biggest national holiday.

