

Russians will remember Boris Yeltsin as the man who brought
freedom but also poverty and war -- a difficult legacy that still
sets the agenda in President Vladimir Putin's Russia, analysts
said.


"Most of Yeltsin's achievements -- democratic elections, freedom
of speech, decentralisation of power, privatisation and
withdrawal of the state from the economy -- are being questioned
today," the Vedomosti daily said.


"The feelings of Russians about Yeltsin's reforms is best
reflected not just in a generally negative appraisal but also in
the current opposite course of development for the country,"
Vedomosti said.


Many Russians have welcomed greater economic and political
stability under Putin, as well as a crackdown against the
powerful and ambitious business oligarchs who wielded
considerable powers under Yeltsin.


Putin, who has been in power since 2000, continues to enjoy high
popularity ratings in contrast to Yeltsin, who became deeply
unpopular after the initial surge of enthusiasm for his
leadership in the early 1990s.


Yeltsin's radical economic reforms dragged Russia towards a
market economy but also created a deeply unequal society that
enriched a handful and left millions in poverty.


Russia's first president also launched a disastrous war against
Chechen separatists in 1994 that ended with humiliating defeat in
1996. Putin has crushed that insurgency.


But despite these traumatic episodes, Yeltsin remains the founder
of today's Russia, analysts said.


"Russian authorities, used to casually criticising Yeltsin's
1990s cannot but understand or at least feel that without
Yeltsin's 1990s, they would not exist," Semyon Novoprudsky, a
political analyst, wrote in Vremya Novostei.


In an editorial entitled "Builder of the Foundation," Fyodor
Lukyanov, editor of the Russia in Global Affairs journal, also
stressed that Yeltsin had helped set the scene for Putin's
achievements.


"Russia's first two presidencies were not antitheses, but a
single period, an era of difficult transition... Yeltsin had the
most dangerous part, when the unwinding spring of history freed
potent political forces," Lukyanov said.


"An objective appraisal of the role played by Boris Yeltsin can
only take place when Russia feels it is a fully-fledged, real
superpower and not the fragment of an empire," Lukyanov said.


Many Russians blame Yeltsin for helping dismantle the superpower
that was the Soviet Union but in fact he helped retain Moscow's
influence in the former Soviet republics through difficult times,
the analyst continued.


Kirill Rogov, a political analyst also writing in Vedomosti,
blamed Russians themselves for failing to seize the opportunity
to reform their country under Yeltsin's rule.


"Boris Yeltsin... fulfilled his duty to the end. If you like, he
gave us time to experience the bitter taste of freedom. At least
so that we are more ready for it when we need it again."

