

Australian superstar Grant Hackett has tipped Chinese swimmers to
"come out of the woodwork" at the Beijing Olympics as he starts
the long haul back to the top after a poor world championships.


An underdone Hackett lost his 400m, 800m, and 1500m titles at the
worlds in Melbourne last month, and cut short his honeymoon to
visit Beijing to get a feel for the 2008 host city as part of his
plan to bounce back.


"China is well and truly on target to deliver a blockbuster Games
and I'm just so looking forward to having my first look at the
competition venues," he told reporters.


The 26-year-old is making his only visit to Beijing ahead of the
Games as part of his sponsorship commitments to Speedo, and
voiced what many others think -- that China has yet to show its
hand in the swimming pool.


"Everybody expects China to do well. We have seen what they've
been capable of doing in the past, not just swimming but also in
other sports," he was quoted as saying in the China Daily.


"People expect China to do well, and how they performed at the
world championships was not a true indication of what they are
capable of.


"In lots of events they can get themselves up a lot more. I think
lots of people believe they are hiding a few golden cards that
they are going to pull out come the Olympic Games.


"I'm a believer in that too. I think they are going to improve
immensely, we know what China is capable of. I think China will
improve, and we will see a lot of athletes come out of the
woodwork."


China won just two medals at the world championships in Melbourne
last month -- its worst performace in 15 years. Wu Peng claimed
silver in the men's 200m butterfly and the women took bronze in
the 400m medley relay.


Hackett has work to do himself after losing his first 1500m race
in 11 years in Melbourne.


But he is determined to be back to his best for Beijing.


"That in itself is a huge motivating factor," he said of his poor
performance at the worlds.


"My coach has every week planned between now and Beijing,
everything is very organised and I'm looking forward to being
able to execute it."


Hackett will be bidding for a hattrick of Olympic titles in the
1500m at Beijing after winning in Sydney and Athens.

