

US officials on Monday struggled to defuse Iraqi anger over the
construction of a concrete wall around a Sunni district in
Baghdad, saying the project was designed to be temporary.


Several hundred people held a noisy street protest in Baghdad
over the building of the five-meter (16-feet) high, three-mile
(five kilometer) long closure around the city's Adhamiyah
neighborhood.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, on a visit to Egypt, vowed to halt
the wall project. "I am opposed to the building of the wall and
its construction is going to stop," Maliki said Sunday.


US officials however said Monday that Iraq's security forces
favor the project, which is part of the new US-led strategy to
restore security to Baghdad with a surge in American troops.


Many other districts already had or would have some form of
barrier, said Brigadier General Qassim Atta, spokesman for the
Iraqi forces engaged with US troops in enforcing the Baghdad
security plan.


Atta said Iraqi units planning and building the walls are under
Maliki's command, and implied the prime minister reacted to false
reports, saying: "He said he would not accept a 12-meter high
security barrier."


In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said that
"clearly there are aspects of this that the Iraqi government at
this point feels is not productive."


US officials "will continue to work with the Iraqi government on
the way forward," he said.


Many Baghdad residents and Iraqi politicians from both sides of
the sectarian divide oppose the wall, claiming it will entrench
the capital's sectarian divisions.


Whitman and other US officials said the wall -- made up of six-
tonne (14,000-pound) concrete sections -- was meant to protect
Adhamiyah's residents from sectarian attacks, and prevent the
Sunni district from being used as a launching pad for violence
against nearby Shiite areas.


US officials played down the wall and insisted that the barriers
were temporary.


"This was always designed to be a kind of temporary measure that
was coordinated with various Iraqi officials to prevent attacks
and to allow people to basically be able to carry out their lives
without fear of attacks," Whitman said.


"The goal here is not permanent barriers," said White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino, "but to try to calm things down to
protect innocent people."


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack insisted that the
Iraqis had been "fully briefed up on this, at least working
through the military side.


"This is not meant as a political statement, it is meant as a
security measure and that we are working closely with the Iraqi
security forces on it," he said.


"These, what I understand to be temporary measures, are meant to
protect the civilian population, it's not meant to divide
people," McCormack said.


In Baghdad, US ambassador Ryan Crocker used his first news
conference since arriving in March to say that the wall was not
intended to segregate the city's warring Sunni and Shiite
communities.


It is important to "not lose sight of the threat that is
motivating some of the decisions that have been made," Crocker
said.


The intention in Adhamiyah is "to try to identify where the fault
lines are, where avenues of attack lie and to set up the barriers
literally to prevent those attacks," he said.


Baghdad has suffered a wave of deadly car attacks, including at
least 173 people killed in car bomb attacks on Wednesday.


On Monday, a suicide bomber blew himself up outside a restaurant
near the capital's fortified Green Zone, killing seven people and
wounding 14, a security official said.


Similar concrete walls surround the Green Zone area, which houses
the US embassy and the Iraqi parliament -- where a suicide bomber
struck on April 12, killing a lawmaker.


As of Monday the US military death toll in Iraq was at 3,321
since the 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.

