

It was like a giant hand reached up and turned back the clock for
Trevor Linden.


Linden scored the go-ahead goal with 13 minutes to play and the
Vancouver Canucks added a pair of empty-net tallies in knocking
off the Dallas Stars 4-1 in game seven of their first round
National Hockey League playoff series.


The Canucks did it on Monday behind Linden, the No. 2 overall
pick of the franchise in 1988 who had made a habit of thriving in
game sevens.


With the scored tied at 1-1 and Vancouver on the power play,
Linden tipped a shot from Mattias Ohlund between the pads of
goalie Marty Turco.


It was Linden's 34th career playoff goal, tying him with Pavel
Bure for the most in Canucks' franchise history.


"We were pushing hard," Linden said. "I tipped it and it got
through but I didn't know if it had enough power to get through
his legs. Turned out it did."


Roberto Luongo made 19 saves and Henrik Sedin scored the tying
goal in the second period as the Canucks advanced to play the
second-seeded Anaheim Ducks in the second round.


"The series could have gone either way," said Luongo, who is
playing in his first post-season after a number of losing seasons
in Florida. "We worked hard all year so it is nice to get
rewarded like this.


"We didn't have the first period we wanted but we came back
strong in second and got a huge powerplay goal."


Having blowing a 3-1 series lead and being shut out in back-to-
back games by Stars goaltender Turco, Vancouver snapped a six-
game streak in which it had failed to close out an opponent.


"We didn't play well in game six and we didn't have to be told,"
Linden said. "We responded in the right way."


Lindenm, of Medicine Hat, Canada, also added an assist to give
him 12 points for his career in game sevens, putting him five
ahead of New York Rangers captain Jaromir Jagr for the all-time
lead among active players.


The Stars, who had to withstand 11 power plays by the Canucks,
had a magnificent chance to tie it in the final minutes.


Mike Modano's one-timer with just over four minutes to play had
Luongo beat but it rang off the crossbar.


Joel Lundqvist tallied to give the Stars a 1-0 lead after one
period before Henrik Sedin knotted it with 4:48 to play in the
middle session on a blind backhanded pass from his twin brother
Daniel.


It was the first points from both Sedins since game one and ended
Turco's scoreless streak at 167 minutes, five seconds. Turco made
28 saves.

