

Oil prices were lower in Asian trade Tuesday after profit taking
in a market nervous over lost production in Nigeria, the world's
sixth biggest oil exporter, dealers said.


At 10:49 am (0249 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in June, was 15 cents lower at
65.74 dollars a barrel from 65.89 dollars in late US trades
Monday, when the contract jumped 1.78 dollars.


Brent North Sea crude for June fell 22 cents at 67.93 after
rallying 1.66 dollars in London.


Ruling party candidate Umaru Yar'Adua won Nigeria's presidential
election on Monday but foreign observers questioned the
credibility of the vote that, along with state polls the week
before, claimed at least 200 lives.


Opposition parties rejected the result, raising the political
risk level in a major oil producer.


"The situation in the oil market is still uncertain because of
the election in Nigeria and production in Nigeria has been
missing," said Tetsu Emori, chief commodities strategist at
Mitsui Bussan Futures in Tokyo.


Nigeria's current production is down an estimated 25 percent due
to violence in the oil-rich Niger Delta.


Emori said nobody really knows the true nature of outages in the
dangerous region and the market fears that even more production
could be disrupted.


"That's why the market is quite nervous at the moment," he said.


Phil Flynn at Alaron Trading said the failure of opposition
parties to accept the election results "could lead to more
violence and perhaps keep the oil markets on guard."


The market is also concerned about high US gasoline (petrol)
demand and insufficient production by the Organisation of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Emori said.


London-based energy analysts, The Centre for Global Energy
Studies (CGES), on Monday said reduced OPEC production risks
another damaging price spike this year.


Emori said OPEC must make up the production shortfall from
Nigeria by increasing output to avoid prices rising to around 70
dollars.


He said the weekly US Department of Energy inventory report to be
released on Wednesday is expected to confirm concerns over US
gasoline demand.


"Gasoline demand in the US is at a much higher level than last
year," Emori said.

