

Former president Boris Yeltsin, who brought down the Soviet Union
and led Russia through the traumatic transition to democracy and
capitalism, died Monday aged 76 from a heart attack.


Yeltsin, who had long been unwell, died at 3:45 pm (1145 GMT) in
Moscow's Central Clinical Hospital, presidential medical service
chief Sergei Mironov said.


The Kremlin said he would be buried in Moscow on Wednesday, a
national day of mourning.


Western leaders remembered the man who led Russia from 1991 to
1999 through an epic but chaotic struggle to shake off the legacy
of totalitarian Soviet rule. But Mikhail Gorbachev, the last
Soviet president, paid a mixed tribute to his successor.


"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose
shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and
serious mistakes -- a tragic fate," Gorbachev said.


US President George W. Bush hailed a "historic figure who served
his country during a time of momentous change." British Prime
Minister Tony Blair applauded a "remarkable man who... played a
vital role at a crucial time".


President Vladimir Putin -- widely accused of reversing democracy
in Russia since taking over from Yeltsin -- said that under his
predecessor "a newly democratic Russia was born, and a free
nation opened to the world."


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, expressed sadness at the news.


"President Yeltsin will be remembered for the critical role he
played in advancing political and economic reforms in Russia, as
well as in fostering rapprochement between East and West," he
said in a statement.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso said Yeltsin "built a new
foundation of progress in Japan-Russia relations with his efforts
to resolve territorial issues".


Japan and Russia have yet to sign a peace treaty formally ending
World War II, due to a dispute over four islands seized by Soviet
troops days after Tokyo surrendered in 1945.


Yeltsin and former prime minister Ryutaro Hashimoto reached a
landmark accord in 1997 to "maximise" efforts to resolve the
dispute and sign a peace treaty by 2000, but the two countries
failed to achieve that goal.


Few were left unmoved by a career in which Yeltsin helped deliver
the coup de grace to the Soviet empire, gave Russians
unprecedented freedoms, yet at the same time oversaw spectacular
economic and political decline.


A bear-like figure with a penchant for flamboyant gestures,
Yeltsin will be best remembered for bravely clambering onto a
tank sent into Moscow in 1991 by communist hardliners attempting
a coup in the dying days of the Soviet Union.


His defiance galvanised pro-democracy supporters, ushered in the
Soviet collapse in December 1991 and Yeltsin's turbulent eight-
year rule.


Faced with the near-disintegration of the once-mighty Soviet
armed forces and social system, Yeltsin sought to drag Russia
into the modern age.


He forced the bankrupt communist economy to adopt capitalism,
unleashed political pluralism, and allowed a vibrant,
freewheeling media.


That made Yeltsin a hero to many in the West, but his reputation
increasingly suffered from heavy drinking, secret
hospitalisations after heart attacks, and the disastrous Chechnya
war.


His domestic popularity went into freefall. An overwhelming
majority of Russians still blame Yeltsin for Russia's slide from
superpower status to economic basket case, playing second fiddle
to the United States on the international stage.


Only the rise of Yeltsin's successor, ex-KGB officer Putin, has
healed those feelings of humiliation -- along with the rolling-
back of many of Yeltsin's liberal reforms.


In a poll by the Levada Analytical Centre in December, 70 percent
said the Yeltsin era did more harm than good. Half thought he
should be prosecuted.


Friends said history would judge Yeltsin more favourably as the
father -- however flawed -- of Russian democracy.


"I consider that (he) did the absolute impossible. He brought us
from no freedom to liberty," said Anatoly Chubais, one of the
architects of liberal economic reforms under Yeltsin.


Yeltsin was born in 1931 near the Ural mountains city of
Yekaterinburg and became a construction engineer before embarking
on a political career in the Communist Party.


In 1991, he was elected the Russian Federation's first president
and in August of the same year he rallied Russian democrats to
defy a junta of generals and other apparatchiks who had ousted
Gorbachev in a coup.


On December 8, 1991, Yeltsin dissolved the Soviet Union with a
stroke of the pen and ushered in the new Russia.


After two embattled terms as president, he went into retirement
after a surprise announcement on New Year's Eve 1999.


His declaration that Putin, then prime minister, would take his
place was part of a carefully prepared plan to hand power to a
powerful group of men with strong KGB links.


One of Putin's first acts in office was to grant Yeltsin immunity
from prosecution.


He then lived a quiet life hunting and playing some tennis in his
residence in Barvikha, near Moscow, where he lived with his wife
Naina.


In western Europe Yeltsin is remembered as a peacemaker who built
bridges in the aftermath of the Cold War -- even many Russians
now see this rapprochement as a surrender.


Yeltsin was "at the forefront of the effort to overcome the
legacy of the Cold War," said NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop
Scheffer.


"This historic effort to set aside the fears and stereotypes of
the past in favour of cooperation in facing the challenges of the
future ... continues to this day," Scheffer said.

