

World Bank chief Paul Wolfowitz met with top managers to discuss
ways of changing his leadership style amid a favoritism scandal
that has prompted calls for him to resign, a US media report said
Tuesday.


The Washington Post said the major development lender's American
president held a brief meeting Monday in which he said he was
considering a "coach" to help him change his leadership style,
without indicating its sources.


The newspaper also said Wolfowitz had hired a top defense lawyer,
Robert S. Bennett, to represent him as the bank reviews his role
in the matter. Bennett is a former federal prosecutor who acted
for ex-US President Bill Clinton in a sexual harassment case
against him in 1998.


It quoted Bennett as saying in an interview that he wanted "to
make sure (Wolfowitz's) rights are fully protected" after the
bank announced it would probe possible conflicts of interest and
"ethical" standards in his conduct.


It also quoted him as saying that Wolfowitz would not resign,
stating that he met with the embattled bank president over the
weekend.


"He feels people are trying to interfere with his job to get at
world poverty, and he wants to get this thing behind him so that
he can concentrate 100 percent of his effort," the newspaper
quoted Bennett as saying.


More than 40 senior former World Bank officials called in a
newspaper letter Monday for Wolfowitz to resign over revelations
that he used his influence to ensure a favorable job and salary
for his girlfriend, a World Bank employee.


The White House has staunchly backed Wolfowitz in the affair.


The revelation that he ordered a salary worth nearly 200,000
dollars (147,000 euros) for his girlfriend, Shaha Riza, in 2005
left him open to accusations of hypocrisy as he steers a
controversial campaign against corruption in the bank's lending.


Wolfowitz told senior managers he appreciated their
"brainstorming" on ways to improve bank management, Tuesday's
report said. The bank was not immediately available for comment.

