

Heavy shelling and tank fire shook the Somali capital for a
seventh day Tuesday as Ethiopian troops stepped up their campaign
to drive out Islamist insurgents and clan fighters.


After a night of sporadic gunfire, Ethiopian tanks pounded
positions in northern and southern Mogadishu in a bid to weaken
the insurgent fighters, whose grip on the capital has prevented
the Somali interim government from functioning.


An AFP correspondent reported heavy shelling around the heavily-
fortified presidential palace, guarded by Ethiopian troops and
African Union peacekeepers, and in Fagah, northern Mogadishu.


Khalid Haji, a Fagah resident, said: "Ethiopian forces and the
insurgents are exchanging heavy fire. Mortar and other artillery
shells are also landing."


A resident of southern Al Kamin neighbourhood said he heard gun
battles Tuesday morning.


"I saw Ethiopian tanks and trucks taking positions this morning.
So far, there was some exchange of fire here," said Ali Hussein.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed government oust
Islamists from the country's south and central regions at the
start of the year.


But since then fighting has steadily grown worse.


Mutilated bodies on Tuesday lay rotting in the streets in
northern Mogadishu, with heavy fighting blocking access to aid
workers.


At least 256 people have died and hundreds have been wounded
since the latest peak in fighting began last week, according to
the Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation, which monitors
casualty rates.


Hospitals have been overwhelmed, with doctors appealing for extra
medical supplies.


The UN refugee agency said last week that more than 321,000
people had fled fighting in the seaside capital since February 1,
but elders told AFP that the figure could now be closer to
400,000 with the exodus of thousands more over the past six days.


The United Nations and United States have called for a truce to
end the deadliest clashes in Mogadishu since the 1991 ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

