

Democrats in Congress merged House and Senate versions of an
emergency spending bill for Iraq, including a time line to
withdraw US troops, despite a veto threat by US President George
W. Bush.


The 120-billion war funding bill calls for withdrawal of most US
combat forces from Iraq beginning no later than October 1, 2007,
with a non-binding goal for completing the pullout by April 1,
2008.


Lawmakers said their bill reflects the wishes of the US public to
leave Iraq sooner rather than later, and said the the legislation
would make it to the president's desk before the end of the week.


"The legislation reflects the will of the American people and the
best interests of our nation," said Senate Appropriations
Committee chairman Robert Byrd.


"This legislation fully funds our brave troops, who risk their
lives every day serving our country," said Byrd, a longtime Iraq
war critic.


He said the bill "also demands a long-overdue change in direction
from the president's failing policy in Iraq."


The legislation also provides funding for troop and veteran
health care, and recovery of the hurricane-ravaged US Gulf Coast.


In a joint statement, leaders of the Democrat-run Congress urged
Bush to abandon his veto plan and offer an alternative.


"The agreement reached between the House and the Senate rejects
the president's failed policies in Iraq and his open-ended
commitment to keep American troops there indefinitely and forges
a new direction for a responsible end to the war," House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said in a
joint statement.


"If the president follows through on his veto threat, he will be
the one who has failed to provide our troops and our veterans
with the resources they need, and it will be the president who
has rejected the benchmarks he announced in January to measure
success in Iraq," they said.


"It is now up to the president to make a decision: continue to
stay his failed course or join us to give our troops a strategy
for success."


There appeared to be little chance, however. that the president
would change position, after Bush as recently as Monday again
rejected any time line imposed on how long US troops should stay
in Iraq.


"I believe strongly that politicians in Washington shouldn't be
telling generals how to do their job. And I believe artificial
timetables of withdrawal would be a mistake," said Bush, as he
met in the Oval Office with the top US commander in Iraq, General
David Petraeus.


The US president also asserted that a US-led security crackdown
had reduced sectarian violence in Iraq.


"There's been some progress. There's been some horrific bombings,
of course, but there's also a decline in sectarian violence," he
said.


Top House Republican John Boehner slammed the bill "just plain
senseless."


"The Democrats' ill-conceived proposal compromises the work of
general Petraeus, it compromises our troops, and it compromises
the security of the American people," he said.

