

Britain has been trying to oust the head of the world's main
anti-bribery watchdog but has been met with opposition from other
countries, The Guardian reported on Tuesday.


Citing unnamed sources in the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), the daily said that British
diplomats were trying to remove the OECD's anti-bribery group
chief Mark Pieth, claiming he is too outspoken.


Pieth's group announced last month that it planned to investigate
why a controversial corruption probe into an arms deal with the
Saudi royal family was halted in December.


Britain dropped the investigation into sales by defence group BAE
Systems on the grounds of "national interest," saying that Saudi
Arabia had threatened to sever its security links if the probe
continued.


Article 5 of an OECD anti-bribery convention, which Britain is a
signatory to, states that bribery probes should not be influenced
by considerations of national economic interest or potential
effects on bilateral relations.


Pieth confirmed to The Guardian that he was aware of British
attempts to remove him from his position, telling the paper: "I
am aware that the British ambassador was asking at the time for
action to be taken against me."


He did not elaborate.


At the Paris meeting when the probe into Britain's handling of
the corruption inquiry was announced, British officials
apparently tried to stop Pieth from addressing a press conference
regarding the inquiry.


They also privately briefed other diplomats involved with the
OECD, saying that he should be sacked.


When those attempts failed, The Guardian reported that their
campaign continued "with further back-channel complaints."


"The UK's representatives were sent to Paris to emasculate the
(watchdog) and ensure they did not say anything publicly," a
source at the OECD told the daily.


"They failed and were not pleased. They behaved in a manner that
would not have been out of place in a boxing ring."


Another OECD source was quoted by the paper as saying: "The
British do not have support from anyone else on this."


The OECD is an international body with a 30-strong membership of
developed, democratic nations. It publishes in-depth research and
draws up conventions for its members.


The anti-bribery body has no official powers, relying on public
pressure to force governments to toughen anti-corruption
measures.

