

It was a sunny day in August 1991 when Boris Yeltsin climbed on a
tank in Moscow to declare his defiance against a Soviet military
coup -- an iconic moment that captured the world's attention.


Dressed in a brown suit and surrounded by thousands of supporters
outside the Russian parliament building, Yeltsin called the coup
an illegal seizure of power and declared a national strike.


His brave act of defiance carried a resonance that not only
defeated the three- day coup but also led to the fall of the
Soviet Union and launched Russia on a stormy course towards
democracy.


Yeltsin was then president of Russia, one of 15 Soviet republics,
a democratic reformer who pushed Soviet president Mikhail
Gorbachev into dismantling a decaying system.


On the morning of August 19, a group of Soviet officials opposed
to the reforms and calling itself the State Emergency Committee
deposed Gorbachev and sent tanks into the streets of Moscow.


Yeltsin immediately rallied to the side of his arch-rival
Gorbachev, who was said to have been taken ill but was in fact
being held in detention at his residence on the Black Sea coast.


Thousands of mostly young demonstrators, many waving Russian
flags and holding hands, began gathering in Moscow soon after the
announcement about the change of power.


Yeltsin, sided by his personal bodyguard and closest supporters,
defied the tanks and armoured personnel carriers patrolling
Moscow's streets and climbed onto one of them.


Standing with a large Russian flag unfurled behind him, he read
out a historic address to the citizens of Russia to defy the
coup.


Demonstrators immediately began setting up barricades to defend
the Russian parliament building. Several people were crushed to
death by tanks as the tense stand-off continued.


The public announcement made by the coup leaders became
increasingly desperate and, by August 21, many of the military
were openly siding with the demonstrators.


The coup plotters were arrested and Gorbachev flew back to
Moscow.


The failure of the coup started off an implosion of the entire
Soviet system and, on December 8 of the same year Yeltsin along
with the leaders of Ukraine and Belarus signed a statement
declaring the end of the Soviet Union.


The memorable image of the defiant Yeltsin provided a common
thread to the the tributes that poured in from around the world
following his death from a heart attack on Monday.


"No American, at least, will forget seeing him standing on the
tank," said US Defence Secretary Robert Gates.


European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso said Yeltsin had
shown "great personal courage" in defending freedom.

