

Around 3,000 lawyers and opposition supporters massed outside
Pakistan's Supreme Court Tuesday as the country's top judge
challenged his dismissal by President Pervez Musharraf.


The protest, including chants of "Go Musharraf, Go," was one of
the biggest in Islamabad since military ruler Musharraf ousted
Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry on March 9, sparking a
tense political crisis.


With hundreds of police and troops looking on, workers of both
secular and Islamic political parties demanded that Musharraf
withdraw misconduct charges laid against the judge.


Hundreds of pro-government supporters meanwhile prepared to march
from their political office nearby, setting the scene for a
possible confrontation with a group of lawyers who moved to block
them off.


"The purpose of our movement is to convey a message to the judges
that they should not side with the military establishment,"
cricket hero turned politician Imran Khan, who runs his own
party, told AFP.


He was referring to a panel of judges called the Supreme Judicial
Council which is hearing allegations against Chaudhry, including
that he abused his position to get a senior police job for his
son and to amass a fleet of cars.


Chaudhry last Wednesday lodged a legal appeal with the Supreme
Court -- the court he formerly headed -- against his suspension
and challenging the authority of the judicial council to hear the
case.


Security forces threw barbed wire coils across main roads leading
to the court to block the marchers, but an emotional crowd of
hardline Islamic parties removed the barricades to reach the
venue.


Separately hundreds of lawyers wearing black armbands chanted
anti-Musharraf slogans while supporters of exiled former premier
Benazir Bhutto beat drums.


Opponents accuse Musharraf of dismissing Chaudhry illegally in an
attempt to weaken the judiciary and make it easier for him to
stay on as army chief past 2007, when the constitution says he is
meant to give up the position.


Musharraf is also expected to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due
late this year or early next -- a move that could spark other
legal challenges.

