

Roman Abramovich's and Jose Mourinho's differences appear to have
been patched up for the moment.


An impromptu hug at the end of the FA Cup semi-final win over
Blackburn hinted that the troubled relationship between Russian
owner and Portuguese manager was on the mend.


A complete reconciliation then appeared to be confirmed at the
end of last week when Chelsea's chief executive, Peter Kenyon,
publicly vowed that Mourinho would not be sacked this summer.


But, as in all domestic disputes, the legacy of past acrimony can
be hard to escape, as Chelsea may discover when Liverpool visit
Stamford Bridge on Wednesday for the first leg of a re-run of the
two clubs' tumultuous 2005 Champions League semi-final.


In the bad old days -- i.e. three months ago -- when Roman and
Jose were not on speaking terms, the most lavishly-resourced club
on the planet somehow neglected to ensure they had adequate cover
at centreback for the remainder of a season in which they remain
on track for an unprecedented 'quadruple'.


Bolton's reported asking price of three million pounds for the
Israeli international Talal Ben Haim was judged extortionate for
a player who will be a free agent come the summer, and Mourinho
was ordered to get by with the resources already available to
him.


By and large, that has meant regularly deploying Michael Essien
as a stop-gap at the heart of the back four. But with Ricardo
Carvalho doubtful for Wednesday after missing Sunday's
Premiership draw with Newcastle -- albeit with an unspecified
injury -- suspension means the Essien option is not open to
Mourinho.


Instead, barring a last-minute recovery by Carvalho, it seems
likely that captain John Terry will be accompanied at the heart
of the back four by the significantly less reassuring figure of
Khalid Boulharouz.


It is not the only thing Mourinho has to worry about. Germany
captain Michael Ballack limped out of Sunday's goalless draw at
Newcastle before half-time and is unlikely to be fully fit while
the rigours of quad chasing appear to be taking their toll on the
likes of Frank Lampard and Didier Drogba, who both looked
decidedly weary at St James' Park.


Liverpool, in contrast, have, in Mourinho's words, been on their
holidays of late with the prospect of an appearance in next
month's final in Athens their last remaining opportunity to
ensure the season ends with some more silverware to adorn the
trophy room at Anfield.


Steve Finnan, the Ireland fullback and one of the veterans of
Liverpool's extraordinary final triumph in Istanbul two years
ago, believes history could be about to repeat itself.


"It does remind me of 2005," Finnan said of Liverpool's progress
to the last four. "We've knocked out Barcelona and PSV Eindhoven
and we did well in the group stage, so we deserve to be here.


"It's our only chance of silverware this season and the lads are
buzzing."


Luis Garcia ensured Liverpool got on the plane to Istanbul with a
hugely controversial second leg winner at Anfield two years ago.
This season the injured Spaniard will be obliged to watch from
the stand but he is the only significant absentee from an
otherwise full-strength Liverpool squad.


Finnan was certainly talking a good game. "We knocked them out in
the semi- finals in 2005, so there's no reason why we can't do it
again," he said.


More recent history is also on Liverpool's side with Rafa
Benitez's side having comprehensively outplayed the Londoners
when they visited Anfield in January, a match that finished in a
2-0 defeat but also prompted Chelsea to go on a nine- match run
of league victories.


"They had beaten us in the league too many times in recent years
so it was nice to get one over them and beat them at Anfield,"
said Finnan. "We played well on the day and that will give us a
lot of confidence for this game.


"The first leg is at their place and that is how we like it. A
good result in the first leg will set us up nicely to go back to
Anfield."

