

A suicide car bomber struck a US military oustpost north of
Baghdad, killing nine soldiers and wounding 20 others, in the
deadliest attack on American forces in 16 months.


The bomber exploded his explosives-laden vehicle against a patrol
base in the restive province of Diyala on Monday and brought the
US military death toll for April so far to 70, according to the
US military.


Fifteen of the wounded were later able to resume their duties,
but the attack was still the bloodiest since December 1, 2005
when 10 US marines are killed and 11 wounded by a roadside bomb
on the outskirts of Fallujah.


It came as Diyala province emerges as one of the fiercest battle
grounds in Iraq, the new focus of Sunni Al-Qaeda fighters pushed
out of western Iraq and Baghdad by large-scale US and Iraqi
security operation.


Another US soldier was killed by a roadside bombs the Diyala town
of Muqdadiyah on the same day, according to his command.


The latest fatalities took the military's losses in Iraq to 3,330
since their March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based
on Pentagon figures.


A British soldier was also killed in the southern city of Basra,
taking to 145 the number of British troops who have died in Iraq
since 2003.


Monday was also a deadly day for Iraqi police and civilians, with
at least 27 killed and dozens wounded in attacks across the
country.


Here again, Diyala province saw much of the carnage.


In Diyala's capital, Baquba, another suicide car bomber attacked
a police patrol near the provincial council headquarters as
representatives gathered for a budget meeting, killing seven
police and wounding 12 more.


"This will not deter the work of the honourable and dedicated to
bring about security, peace and prosperity," said Diyala's
Governor Raad Hameed Al-Mula Jowad Al-Tamimi, and the meeting
went ahead as planned.


The bomber exploded against a police patrol that was directing
traffic to allow a US convoy to pass, and it was not clear what
the target was.


Fighting has intensified in the palm groves and market towns of
Diyala, already a battle ground between Sunni insurgents and
Shiite militia, since February 14 when US and Iraqi forces
launched the Baghdad security plan.


The US military has sent reinforcements to the area as part of a
strategy to pacify the violent belt around the capital which
houses insurgent rear bases and car bomb factories used to
prepare attacks on Iraqi civilians.


In the capital itself, the plan has seen a "surge" in troop
numbers as new US commander General David Petraeus attempts to
quell sectarian infighting long enough to allow Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki's government space to rule.


Despite this, and amid mounting US casualties, car bomb attacks
have continued to target Shiite civilians.


The new US ambassador in Iraq, Ryan Crocker, used his first press
conference on Monday to urge Iraqi politicians seek national
reconciliation.


"I think the Baghdad Security Plan led by Iraq, supported by the
coalition, can buy time, but what it does is buy time for what
ultimately has to be a set of political understandings among
Iraqis," he told reporters.


"These months ahead are going to be critical as this plan
continues forward to increase security and gain the time, but
most especially as Iraqis then try and use that time to grapple
with some of these difficult issues," he said.


Meanwhile, US President George W. Bush said he would oppose any
effort to set a timetable for a US withdrawal from Iraq and said
that a US-led security crackdown had reduced sectarian violence
there.


"There's been some progress. There's been some horrific bombings,
of course, but there's also a decline in sectarian violence,"
Bush said as he met in the Oval Office with Petraeus.

