

Almost four months after taking over as United Nations Secretary
General, Ban Ki-moon says he feels "indescribable pressure" but
also satisfaction.


The former South Korean foreign minister, in an interview with
Seoul's Yonhap news agency, was quoted as saying he has had to
reduce his sleep to five hours a night.


"It's a very tough job. There's indescribable pressure on my
shoulders," Ban told Yonhap during a trip to the Qatari capital
Doha.


However he described his peace-making role as satisfying and
cited his effots to secure the release of 15 British sailors and
marines detained by Iran last month.


Following Tehran's decision to release them, Ban said, "I later
had a telephone conversation with the Iranian president (Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad) and he said the Iranian government put much of the
UN secretary general's position into its decision."


Ban added: "I think my contribution to the world has grown much
more than I expected."


In Doha Monday, Ban warned that developing nations will suffer
serious damage if the Doha global trade talks do not succeed.


"Should this round of trade talks fail, serious damage will be
done to those who can least afford it," he told delegates to a
conference on development, democracy and free trade.


"The global trading regime needs to create opportunties for the
poorest countries instead of leaving them at a disadvantage," he
said.


In his interview with Yonhap, Ban praised South Korean President
Roh Moo-Hyun for his push for a free-trade pact with the United
States despite fierce opposition from some political allies as
well as farmers and activists.


The pact was agreed early this month after 10 months of tough
negotiations.


But Ban took his homeland, the world's 11th-largest economy, to
task over the size of its overseas aid contributions.


Seoul contributed 745 million dollars in aid to developing
countries in 2005, up 75 percent from the previous year, and
plans to increase this to 960 million by 2008.


South Korea's spending of 0.08 percent of its gross domestic
product on overseas aid last year compares to the average of 0.36
percent by other members of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development.


It plans to raise its spending to 0.35 percent by 2030 but Ban
said that goal was still inadequate given the size of its
economy.

