

Liang Wen-chong says emerging Chinese golfers need more help to
establish themselves, calling for dedicated personnel to steer
them in the right direction.


Currently the hottest property in Chinese golf after winning the
European Tour- sanctioned Singapore Masters in March, Liang is a
big supporter of the game in his homeland.


He donated his Singapore prize money to development of the game
in China, following a similar gesture after winning a China Tour
event last season.


But it has been a long haul to get where he is and he knows the
pitfalls that face young golfers now coming through.


"The middle range players, the ones who are not very famous yet,
are facing difficulties," he said.


"It is hard for them to go abroad and play. By donating the money
I hope to encourage people who support the sport, to encourage
people who like the sport to be more supportive.


"I have walked the path (which Chinese golfers are walking at the
moment) and it was not easy."


He pointed to the crop of new Thai golfers now on the Asian Tour
and the fact that they have someone who travels with them to
smooth their way, something Chinese golfers do not have.


"They have one person to take care of them while they are playing
abroad and I think that is a very good thing," he said.


"The most important thing is to have someone help them solve
problems.


"How do they register for tournaments, how do they enter an
event, how do they book tickets, who do they look for to get
information at a tournament.


"If they have all these details to worry about they are not going
to play golf very well."


Liang is encouraged that the Omega China Tour, about to start its
third season, is now established. He plans to continue supporting
it as a way of helping his compatriots.


"It has taught them how to play events. I think that most of the
players in the top 10 of the rankings on the China Tour should
make it to the Asian Tour and beyond.


"(But) I do not think one person should represent China golf. It
should be a team of players, it should be all about teamwork and
team power -- not like a one-man show.


"I think that teamwork and team power is the key for the future
of China golf."


The China Tour kicks off with the Sofitel Golf Championship in
Nanjing from May 10 to 13.

