

Russia's press bade a respectful farewell to first post-Soviet
leader Boris Yeltsin on Tuesday, praising the freedoms he
introduced over his many faults.


The mass circulation pro-government daily Izvestia returned to
Yeltsin's inauguration in 1991, picturing him as he first entered
the Kremlin gates to assume power and praising him for not
clinging on beyond a second term.


"In power many people cursed him, but in leaving the Kremlin he
showed his critics and his supporters that there is something
more important than hunger for power," Izvestia said, referring
to his sudden 1999 resignation.


"There is such a thing as law and democracy and it was under
Yeltsin that this began to be understood. In the end it was for
him about self-respect and reputation and now he has left us in
the same way," Izvestia said.


The paper also noted Yeltsin's appeal for forgiveness for his
faults, unprecedented for a Russian leader, in his resignation
speech on December 31, 1999.


The independent Vremya Novostei daily pictured a more reflective
Yeltsin in his later years and gushingly paid tribute to a man
who for all his faults, the paper said, had been a hero.


"Yeltsin was the last hero. Now we just have people," said Vremya
Novostei.


"The main quality of a hero is not his historical good or bad
points or the number of his mistakes, his victories or defeats.
What is important for a hero is greatness, even if it is
frightening," the paper said.


Meanwhile a commentator in the English-language Moscow Times also
returned to Yeltsin's establishment of democracy in Russia and
warned that his crowning achievement was in danger of being
undone under President Vladimir Putin.


"His tenure was characterized by a constant search for political
coalitions but his main drive was always forward, away from the
history of a Communist dictatorship and toward the future of a
normal country that could truly consider itself European,"
Konstantin Sonin wrote in The Moscow Times.


"If Russia does indeed slip into dictatorship then it is only
right that its first president died before he had to watch his
country pass the point of no return," the paper said.

