

A Japanese businessman was sentenced to life in jail Tuesday for
a wave of brutal assaults on women but cleared on the most high-
profile count -- the killing of British bar hostess Lucie
Blackman.


Joji Obara, a 54-year-old former property developer, had been on
trial since 2000 on charges that he preyed on young Western women
working in Tokyo's seedy nightlife district of Roppongi.


Although the Blackman case was the most prominent, Obara was
accused of a total of 10 counts of rape, two of which led to
death -- of Blackman, 21, and Australian Carita Ridgeway.


Tokyo District Court sentenced him to life for most of the
assaults but he was acquitted of all charges related to
Blackman's death.


"There is nothing to prove that he was involved in the rape and
her death. The court cannot prove he was single-handedly involved
in her death," Judge Tsutomi Tochigi said.


"What is clear is that the victim acted together with the accused
and then vanished and, following that, she was found dead."


Wearing a black jacket and glasses with his hair greying and
thinning, Obara looked ahead attentively and occasionally nodded
as the verdict was read.


Blackman's father Tim was also in court.


His daughter's disappearance raised a storm of media coverage in
Britain and even a personal appeal by Prime Minister Tony Blair.


Obara, who argued that he did not intend to kill any women, was
charged with abduction, assaults resulting in death, mutilation
and abandonment of a corpse but not actual murder, meaning he was
not eligible for the death penalty.


He has the right to appeal.


Tochigi told him he believed Ridgeway, also a 21-year-old bar
hostess, died of hepatitis in a Tokyo hospital in February 1992
after being drugged by Obara.


"It is believed that the victim suffered a liver disorder due to
contracting the virus and a significant exposure to drugs," he
said.


On Blackman, however, "the court finds him not guilty on the
charges of the rape resulting in death, abandonment and
mutilation of the body."


Memories of the Blackman case were revived last month after the
corpse of 22 -year-old British teacher Lindsay Ann Hawker was
found in suburban Tokyo.


Police are still trying to find suspect Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28,
who lived in an apartment where her bruised, naked body was found
buried in a sand-filled disconnected bathtub on the balcony.


Since his daughter's death, Tim Blackman has set up a group to
advise young people on safety when they go overseas.


He branded Obara a "monster" in emotional testimony last year to
the Tokyo District Court.


"This monster has shown not a single tear of contrition, shame or
guilt for the perversion or crime against humanity," he said.


Blackman nonetheless accepted 100 million yen (850,000 dollars)
from one of Obara's friends, leading Lucie Blackman's mother Jane
Stearne to denounce her ex-husband for taking "blood money."


The payment was apparently intended to bring leniency in the
verdict.


Obara refused to appear when Tim Blackman testified in court. He
reportedly stripped down to his underwear and hid in his cell
between furniture and the wall, refusing to come out.

