

US officials sought Monday to defuse Iraqi anger over the
construction of a concrete wall around a flash point Sunni
district of Baghdad, saying the project was designed to be
temporary.


Building of the five-metre (16-feet) high, three-mile (five
kilometer) long closure around Baghdad's Adhamiyah neighborhood
sparked street protests in the city and drew a rebuke from Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki.


US officials however said that the wall -- part of the new US-led
security strategy to pacify Baghdad -- is supported by Iraq's
security forces.


"Clearly there are aspects of this that the Iraqi government at
this point feels is not productive and we will continue to work
with the Iraqi government on the way forward," said Pentagon
Spokesman Bryan Whitman.


He spoke after Maliki, on a visit to Egypt, vowed Sunday to halt
the wall project. "I am opposed to the building of the wall and
its construction is going to stop," Maliki said.


Many Baghdad residents and Iraqi politicians from both sides of
the sectarian divide oppose the wall, claiming it will harden the
capital's sectarian divisions. On Monday several hundred people
held a noisy street protest in Adhamiyah.


Whitman and other US officials said the wall was meant to protect
Adhamiyah's residents from sectarian attacks, and prevent the
Sunni district from being used as a launchpad for violence
against nearby Shiite areas.


US and Iraqi officials in Baghdad spoke of extending the works to
cover other Baghdad neighborhoods -- but in Washington, officials
were stressing that the barriers were only temporary.


"This was always designed to be a kind of temporary measure that
was coordinated with various Iraqi officials to prevent attacks
and to allow people to basically be able to carry out their lives
without fear of attacks," Whitman said.


"The goal here is not permanent barriers," said White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino, "but to try to calm things down to
protect innocent people."


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack insisted that the
Iraqis had been "fully briefed up on this, at least working
through the military side.


"This is not meant as a political statement, it is meant as a
security measure and that we are working closely with the Iraqi
security forces on it," he said.


"These, what I understand to be temporary measures, are meant to
protect the civilian population, it's not meant to divide
people," McCormack said.


In Baghdad, US ambassador Ryan Crocker used his first news
conference since arriving last month to say that the concrete
wall was not intended to segregate the city's warring Sunni and
Shiite communities.


It is important to "not lose sight of the threat that is
motivating some of the decisions that have been made," Crocker
said.


The intention in Adhamiyah is "to try to identify where the
faultlines are, where avenues of attack lie and to set up the
barriers literally to prevent those attacks," he said.


The spokesman for the Iraqi forces engaged with US troops in
enforcing the Baghdad security plan, Brigadier General Qassim
Atta, said that many other districts already had or would have
some form of barrier.


Atta said Iraqi units involved in planning and building the walls
are under Maliki's command, and implied the prime minister
reacted to false reports, saying: "He said he would not accept a
12-metre high security barrier."


The wall is made of six-tonne (14,000-pound) concrete sections.

