

Tamil Tiger rebels said they carried out their second-ever air
attack on Sri Lankan government troops on Tuesday, a claim that
was immediately denied by the military.


Two light aircraft of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
bombed the Palaly military air base in the Jaffna peninsula just
after midnight, guerrilla spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said.


"We have carried out our second air attack ... on the Palaly air
field and their military stores," he said by satellite telephone
from northern Sri Lanka.


A Sri Lankan military official denied the announcement but said
the guerrillas had fired artillery towards the Palaly complex.


"We deny the air attack," an official at the defence ministry's
media centre said. "But they fired artillery towards Palaly and
we have retaliated using artillery. There were no damages to
security forces."


Ilanthiriyan said their pilots saw flames after dropping bombs on
the sprawling complex, which is the main airbridge to the Jaffna
peninsula, a former Tiger bastion that was captured by troops in
December 1995.


He said the Palaly airfield was also targeted but it was not
immediately clear if the attack had succeeded in inflicting and
damage or casualties.


The rebels, whose drawn-out campaign for an independent state for
the island's ethnic Tamil minority has left more than 60,000
people dead, carried out their first aerial strike on Sri Lankan
forces last month.


In that attack, the guerrillas flew two aircraft over the
island's main military air base, which shares a runway with Sri
Lanka's only international airport, and dropped six bombs. Three
airmen were killed and 17 wounded.


An investigation is still under way to find out how the rebel
aircarft managed to evade radar and remain in the air for a total
of more than three hours without being chellenged.


Since then, the Sri Lankan military has acquired night-flying
capabilities and said it has bombed several suspected Tiger
targets, including guerrilla naval assets, communications
facilities and training camps.


Sri Lanka's military had also stepped up its air defences and set
up a telephone hotline in case citizens notice any unidentified
aircraft.


Hours before Tuesday's pre-dawn attack, a roadside bomb killed
three people and wounded 35 in Vavuniya, which is next to a
rebel-held area, the defence ministry said earlier.


It had also said that the air force hit a suspected Tiger base
located on the southeastern side of the Jaffna peninsula on
Monday.


A pro-rebel website reported that security forces had been
massing troops in the peninsula for a possible offensive against
the guerrillas, who control the only land access to the region.


The government on Monday asked peace broker Norway to put off a
visit to rebel- held territory by their ambassador, citing
security considerations.

