

Ecuador's high court said on Monday it has reinstated 57
legislators who were fired for their opposition to President
Rafael Correa's plans for a constitutional convention.


The Constitutional Tribunal voted 6-3 to return the legislators
to their jobs, Tarquino Orellana, vice president of the court,
told AFP.


"This opinion is problematic because it is rushed, completely
irregular because it goes against regulatory procedures," said
Orellana, who opposed the measure.


The ruling is sure to aggravate tensions between the lawmakers
and the leftist president.


Voters last week backed a referendum promoted by Correa calling
for a special assembly that will rewrite the constitution.


Correa has urged constitutional reform to remake the South
American country to fit his socialist program.


On March 6, legislators fearing for their jobs should the
constitution be rewritten, sacked the head of the Supreme
Election Tribunal in an attempt to foil the referendum.


However, the following day, the Supreme Elections Tribunal
ordered the removal of the legislators who had stood in its way.


Monday's court decision "has no legal basis," said Ciro Guzman,
who heads the Popular Democratic Movement, part of Correa's
governing coalition.


"We will agitate until the people's will is respected," he said.


The referendum allowing the constitutional convention was
approved on April 16 by a margin of more than five to one.


According to official projections, 81.4 percent of votes cast
approved of convening a constituent assembly to draft a new
constitution.


Another election will fill the seats of the constitutional
convention.


Correa, 44, enjoys a 70 percent approval rating as Ecuador's
eighth president in a turbulent decade.


He joins presidents of Bolivia and Venezuela in tightening state
control over the economy, especially in the gas and oil sectors.


He has so far promised to overturn the neoliberal policies of his
predecessor and to throw the World Bank representative out of
Ecuador.

