

Canada's opposition leaders on Monday urged the defense minister
to step down after media reports said Afghan forces are abusing
prisoners who are captured by Canadian troops in Afghanistan and
handed over to local authorities.


"Are these detainees being tortured?" asked Liberal opposition
leader Stephane Dion during a lawmaker's debate at which he
called for Defense Minister Gordon O'Connor's resignation.


Dion described as "shameful" the findings of an investigative
report by the Toronto Globe and Mail which "uncovered a litany of
gruesome stories and a clear pattern of abuse by the Afghan
authorities who work closely with Canadian troops," the paper
said.


The report said detainees, who are regularly handed over to
Afghan forces, suffer whips with electrical cables, electric
shocks, exposure to cold temperatures and beatings, "despite
Canada's assurances that the rights of detainees are protected."


Prime Minister Stephen Harper pledged that the government would
look into the matter.


"These are serious allegations and the government is taking them
seriously," Harper said, though he rejected the notion that
O'Connor should step down.


"Very recently, as the leader of the opposition knows, the
government signed a new detainee transfer agreement with the
government of Afghanistan and with the Afghan Independent Human
Rights Commission," Harper said.


"Obviously officials of our government will be following up these
allegations with officials of the government of Afghanistan," he
added.


The treatment of Afghan prisoners has sparked contentious debate
among Canadian leaders in recent months.


Rights groups have said a prisoner transfer agreement between
Ottawa and Afghanistan's government, signed in December 2005,
does not provide "adequate safeguards to ensure that detainees
will not be tortured by Afghan forces."


In March, O'Connor apologized for telling lawmakers that the
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) would alert
Canada in case of any mistreatment of prisoners who are
transferred from Canadian custody, statements he later
acknowledged were "inaccurate."


O'Connor has since struck a new accord with the Afghan
Independent Human Rights Commission, which last year estimated
that around "30 percent of prisoners in Kandahar jails had
suffered some kind of abuse," the newspaper said.


Canada's military, which has 2,500 troops in southern
Afghanistan, in February also launched an investigation into
allegations that up to three Afghan detainees taken captive by
the Canadian forces were beaten while in custody.


Monday's Globe and Mail report, which was based on interviews
with 30 former prisoners of Kandahar jails, contained no mention
of any abuse by Canadian forces.

