

The sixth annual Tribeca Film Festival in New York kicks off on
Wednesday with a strong line-up of international documentaries
and features tackling some of the world's most controversial
issues, from war to global warming.


With 157 feature films and 88 shorts from a total of 47
countries, the festival is offering a smaller program than last
year, but organizers are promising a high quality line-up with no
fewer than 73 world premieres.


"The festival is getting more and more strong and popular," actor
and director Robert De Niro, who co-founded the festival, said in
an interview ahead of the opening. The event runs until May 6
throughout New York city.


The festival emerged in 2002 out of the ashes of the September 11
attacks the previous year and was intended to help breathe new
life into a devastated city, and particularly the downtown
Tribeca area.


"It was our way to try to help heal our community. It was the
only thing we knew how to do to help," producer and co-founder
Jane Rosenthal told AFP.


"When it started out, it was helping the rebuilding of Tribeca
spiritually, financially, and culturally and it's still doing
that," added De Niro.


From the beginning it attracted filmmakers from all over the
world, said Rosenthal. "If anything, that has gotten stronger as
years have gone on."


"I think the fact that we show a different point of view in some
of these films is a positive thing," she added. "We try to give a
balanced point of view and we try to add a different
perspective."


Among the films most likely to attract attention are
documentaries "I am an American Soldier: One Year in Iraq with
the 101st Airborne," and "Beyond Belief," about two September 11
widows spending time in Afghanistan.


"One of the most exciting things about film is when it's able to
depict the transformation of people's lives," the festival's
executive director, Peter Scarlet, told AFP, hailing the courage
of the protagonists.


"Two people who had the most unimaginably tragic loss decided
that what they wanted to do was reach beyond their own pain and
help other people, whom they came to understand were in even
worse circumstances than they were," he said.


There is also a strong environmental theme, following on from
February's "green" Oscars. Former vice president Al Gore is to
open the festival with a series of shorts on global warming.


Scarlet said the strong line-up of films dealing with issues from
Iraq to Afghanistan and 9/11 to Guantanamo Bay reflected the
circumstances of the festival's birth as well as the nature of
the modern world.


"We have yet to become a peacetime festival and with a war
raging, what's more natural than for good filmmakers to be making
films about it and making sense of it?" he said.


The international nature of issues and filmmakers featured also
reflected New York's own diversity, he said.


"We're based in this multi-ethnic, multi-racial crossroads of
world culture," he said. "The programming of the festival here
has to reflect that.


"Some of the most honored filmmakers in the world come here to
get their first American -- and sometimes world -- premiere
showings," Scarlet said.


While film festivals have sprung up in increasingly obscure
places in recent years, Scarlet said Tribeca stood out because of
its heritage and the top quality films on offer.


"This one is special because it started for generous and honest
motives, to help that neighborhood get back on its feet," he
said, while admitting it was difficult not to feel cynical about
the profusion of festivals.


He said good festivals provided a "human context" missing in the
multiplex age, by offering the opportunity to hear filmmakers
talk about their work and fostering an environment where people
discuss films with other filmgoers.


"When you go out to see the movies tonight, you shell out your
money, you buy your Coke, you sit down, you see the trailers, you
see the movie and then in most multiplexes you are ejected, not
unlike a fecal product through the intestinal tract, out the back
of the theater, past the trash cans."


"Are you going to talk to anyone there? Probably not. You're
probably not going to talk to anyone on the way in. At a film
festival you may go, 'What did you think of that Romanian film?'
and begin to talk," he said.


"Maybe the only chance all of us have to figure out what the
hell's going on (in the world) and to make it feel a little bit
less crazy is through movies. People understand other people
better through films."

