

In-form Australian opener Matthew Hayden has said self-belief and
captain Ricky Ponting's support are the keys to his World Cup
success.


The left-hander has emerged the tournament's leading scorer with
580 runs in nine matches with three centuries.


Hayden is only the third batsman to have scored three hundreds in
a World Cup after compatriot Mark Waugh and India's Sourav
Ganguly.


"I think I am here today because my skipper believed in me and I
believed in myself and it's as simple as that," Hayden said ahead
of Wednesday's semi-final against South Africa.


Hayden had been struggling to find a place in the one-day side
after his mediocre 2005 Ashes campaign, but made the most of the
opportunities early this year to get the selectors' nod.


"You often rise to the occasion and I have been no different.
This story is nothing remarkable," said Hayden.


"It's the story of what it means to us to play for our country
and the level of expectation that we first put on ourselves and
then the rewards for playing good cricket for Australia.


"It's no coincidence that this side is on top of its game for
long periods of time. Like any player, I have had my fair share
of ups and downs. Thankfully, I've stayed out of those lows,
certainly they haven't extended."


Hayden said Australia had the best chance of winning the
tournament if they maintained the momentum in the coming big
games. Australia will complete a hat- trick if they win the
final, having won the title in 1999 and 2003.


"We are a side which is at the top of its game and that gives you
the best chance. Cricket is such a huge game with momentum and
right now we have got so much momentum going into these final
stages," he said.


Hayden has been instrumental in giving his team solid starts with
Adam Gilchrist.


"I think throughout this tournament the sides that have got in
trouble were those who lost early two or three wickets, so
Australia's batting plan is try and develop a good platform and
go from there," he said.


"I guess we are looking at how we can improve at this stage and
that will start with the platform which Gilly and I, or our
opening bowlers, create.


"We have played with great confidence and freedom. That has been
part of our gameplan for a long period."


Hayden has emerged a strong contender for the player-of-the-
tournament award, but said winning the title mattered most.


"I couldn't care less about player of the tournament. What we are
here to do is to win the semi-final. If we win, then we go to the
final and our objective will be to win the final," he said.


"I have been happy with the way we have batted as a unit, not
just myself. Everyone of the top six has been outstanding and I
am proud to be part of that. We have had some unbelieveable
achievements."


Hayden, who smashed the fastest Cup century off 66 balls against
South Africa in a group match in St Kitts last month, said the
Proteas could be the closest challengers to their supremacy.


"We admire their work ethic is similar to ours and the freedom
with which they play is similar to ours. I learnt a lot from my
first tour of South Africa in 1994 as there were some close
games," he said.


"That was a baptism of fire for me, the one I enjoyed very much.
I have enjoyed the competition with them and I enjoy it probably
more against South Africa than any other side."

