

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe finally heads to the United
States this week after a strategic wait of more than half a year
as he tries to broaden the country's diplomacy.


Abe, who has built his career as a hardliner on North Korea, is
expected to use the trip to call on US President George W. Bush
to take a tough line on the communist state.


Abe, who took office in September, has broken the traditional
rule for Japanese prime ministers -- a swift visit to Washington
to shore up Japan's most important alliance.


Although Abe has frequently visited the US in the past and met
Bush on the sidelines of an Asia-Pacific summit in Vietnam last
year, he has gone to four Asian and four European countries
before heading to Washington.


After the two-day summit at Camp David which winds up Friday, Abe
heads straight for a tour of five Middle Eastern countries.


"Prime Minister Abe appears to be aiming for a broader-ranged
diplomacy," said Yoshinobu Yamamoto, professor of international
politics at Aoyama University in Tokyo.


"Although the Japan-US alliance is still far more important for
the Abe cabinet, he may be considering how to take over from the
policies of former prime minister (Junichiro) Koizumi," he said.


Koizumi was one of Bush's closest international allies, taking
the landmark step of sending troops to Iraq -- a first for Japan
since World War II -- and famously playing air guitar next to
Bush at Elvis Presley's Graceland mansion.


But Japan's relations with China and South Korea sank under
Koizumi, who repeatedly visited a controversial war shrine
associated with Tokyo's past imperialism.


"It was wise for Abe to have chosen China as the first country to
visit, which raised his support," said Toshiro Kato, professor of
international politics at Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo.


"The main objective of this trip to Washington is to forge
diplomatic linkages with the White House as the Koizumi
administration did," said Kato. "Success in his visit will depend
on that point."


Abe, whose grandfather was a World War II cabinet minister, has
vowed to shake off legacies of World War II defeat, including the
US-imposed pacifist constitution.


Abe's visit follows an uproar after he denied Japanese troops
directly coerced so-called "comfort women" -- sex slaves --
during World War II.


Abe has since offered repeated apologies to comfort women and
explained his position to Bush over the telephone.


While the "comfort women" issue is unlikely to be on the summit
agenda, Abe expects he may be asked about it by members of the
new Democratic-led Congress which is considering a bill that
would demand a fresh, unambiguous apology.


During the summit with Bush, Abe is to tell Bush about Japan's
continued support for "a war on terror", despite signs that US
allies are gradually distancing themselves from Washington, a
foreign ministry official said.


"I would like to talk with the president about strengthening the
Japan-US alliance as Japan-US relations are the foundation of our
country's diplomacy and security," Abe said earlier this month.


Abe recently decided to extend by two years an air mission flying
goods and personnel into Iraq, although Japan ended the ground
troop deployment last year.


But Japan has increasingly taken a different approach to North
Korea than Bush, who has changed in tone since the days when he
branded the communist state part of an "axis of evil."


The Bush administration in February negotiated a six-nation aid-
for-disarmament deal with Pyongyang, which has been opposed by
some conservatives in Washington and Tokyo.


Abe has refused to fund the six-nation deal due to an emotionally
charged row over North Korea's past kidnappings of Japanese
nationals.


Abe met ahead of his trip with families of Japanese abductees and
vowed to raise the issue with Bush.


"It is my responsibility and mission to make every one of you
live peacefully and calmly," Abe said. "The world should
cooperate in tackling international human rights issues."

