

They're the top team, the favourites and two-time winners, but
the United States face a tough battle for a third women's World
Cup title after this weekend's controversial draw.


The 1991 and 1999 winners were quietly fuming after the
unexplained decision to pre-position North Korea in Group B left
them with little chance of avoiding Asia's number one.


The United States will now open their World Cup campaign against
the 'axis of evil' country on the most politically sensitive of
dates -- September 11.


"I don't understand it," said coach Greg Ryan.


"At this point it doesn't matter. What's done is done. We just
have to start preparing for North Korea as our first match."


Striker Kristine Lilly preferred not to dwell on the controversy
and focus on football instead.


"I'm not going to get caught in the politics," Lilly said. "Our
focus is on playing, on North Korea and doing what we do best."


But North Korea is just the start of the problem for the US, with
2003 runners- up Sweden and Africa's top team, Nigeria, rounding
out the ultimate 'Group of Death.'


"We have three of the five best teams in the world -- that's a
tough one," said Sweden coach Thomas Dennerby.


The row over the draw threatened to overshadow preparations for
the fifth World Cup, which will be held in China from September
10-30.


Officials repeatedly stonewalled questions from the media about
North Korea's placement, although FIFA general secretary Urs
Linsi denied the Koreans had been consulted.


"I think if you make a draw you don't ask the teams," he said.


Meanwhile China, seeded in Group D, are assured of avoiding their
Asian rivals until at least the semi-finals.


The hosts will play their two toughest matches in their favoured
Wuhan Stadium before facing New Zealand in Tianjin.


"I'm confident we have the chance to reach the semi-finals," said
newly appointed coach Marika Domanski-Lyfors. "We have a tough
group but if we get through anything can happen."


Officials say interest in the sport has risen significantly since
the first World Cup, with more women players, coaches and
administrators.


But it has yet to return to the glory days of 1999, when a record
crowd and huge TV audience watched Mia Hamm's United States take
the title in a thrilling penalty shoot-out.


The World Cup was due to return to China four years ago, before
the SARS outbreak forced a move to the United States.


Since then football bosses have touted controversial methods to
make the sport more popular.


"Let the women play in more feminine clothes," FIFA president
Sepp Blatter has said. "They could, for example, have tighter
shorts."


Participants will, however, hope the football is the main
attraction in September, especially after this weekend's
entertaining friendly between China and a World Stars team.


China delighted home fans by sealing a 3-2 win in the dying
seconds, but not before Zhou Gaoping had been taken off with a
bloody face injury.


The hosts will be hoping for success both on and off the field
during the tournament, which which takes place less than a year
before the Beijing Olympics.


Five cities across the vast country -- Shanghai, Hangzhou and
Wuhan in the east, Chengdu in the west and northern Tianjin --
will host the matches, including Tianjin's 60,000-seat Olympics
Center.

