

Boris Yeltsin and Vladimir Putin had sharply divergent characters
and policies, but there was also an underlying continuity between
Russia's first two post- Soviet leaders, analysts said.


Yeltsin, Russia's first president who died aged 76 on Monday, was
a maverick character remembered by many here more for his drunken
pranks than his towering policy achievements.


Putin, whose second and constitutionally mandated last term in
office ends next year, has instead built up an image as a sober
bureaucrat with a skill for bolstering Soviet-style controls.


While Yeltsin oversaw a chaotic period of liberal reforms
characterised by all- powerful business oligarchs, Putin pursued
the goal of strengthening state control over the economy and
tamed the business elites.


"Yeltsin was more a destroyer than a creator. He destroyed
totalitarianism and socialism. But he wasn't sufficiently
creative to launch a market economy in Russia," said Yevgeny Volk
from the Heritage Foundation in Moscow.


"With Putin, there has been a return to repressive Soviet
political methods that disappeared under Yeltsin. Now there is a
centralisation of political and media power," Volk said.


Their images in the West are also markedly different, with
Yeltsin seen as the democratic hero who brought an end to the
Soviet Union and Putin regarded as a reactionary who has clamped
down on democratic freedoms.


Putin, although never directly attacking his predecessor, has
been sharply critical of the way in which Russia was run during
the 1990s, particularly concerning the mass privatisation
programmes.


But Putin was also hand-picked as successor by Yeltsin's
entourage and their styles of leadership bear similarities that
betray an underlying continuity, analysts said.


Some observers have pointed to a toughening of Yeltsin's rule
after he crushed opposition of the Russian parliament to his
reforms in 1993 by sending in tanks to attack the building.


Others see the clique that surrounded Yeltsin in his later years
and increasingly took over the business of government as similar
to the current Kremlin elite of state-run firms and politicians.


Both men oversaw brutal military campaigns to crush separatism in
Chechnya that led to tens of thousands of civilian deaths and
thousands of military losses.


Some analysts have also seen Putin as having the same broadly
liberal policies as Yeltsin but only pursuing them in different
ways and in a markedly changed Russia.


"Vladimir Putin is pursuing the democratisation policies of Boris
Yeltsin. The only difference is that Putin rules in a period of
economic growth," said Boris Kagarlitsky of the Moscow-based
Institute on Globalisation.


The two men now favoured to become Russia's next president,
deputy prime ministers Dmitry Ivanov and Sergei Ivanov, mirror
the contrasts between Yeltsin and Putin, as well as the
continuity -- both come from the same Kremlin elite.

