

China unveiled new rules on Tuesday aimed at improving government
transparency and tackling corruption but said the new openness
would have its limits and not begin for more than a year.


The changes order government departments to release information
on a wide range of contentious issues such as land use,
government financial accounting, environmental destruction and
public health.


An official with the State Council, China's cabinet, said the
rules were intended in part to help stamp out the official
corruption and power abuses that are seen by the ruling Communist
Party as a threat to its legitimacy.


"The purpose is to build a socially harmonious society, prevent
and punish corruption, and create a more standard, fair and
transparent system," Zhang Qiong, of the council's legislative
affairs office, told a news conference in Beijing.


"The rules are designed with the spirit of putting people first."


However, it remains to be seen how much impact the rules will
have in a country where central government edicts are routinely
ignored at provincial and local level.


Zhang also said China would continue to reserve the right to
suppress information that threatens "social stability" or that
would divulge state secrets.


China's ruling Communist Party has a history of invoking such
risks to suppress information on politically damaging issues such
as natural disasters, public health threats and government
dishonesty, or to suppress dissent.


"When opening government information we should avoid (actions)
that may damage national security, economic security and threaten
social stability," said Zhang.


"We need to continue to observe confidentiality laws and refuse
to open information that involves state secrets, business secrets
and individual privacy."


Zhang also said that although the new regulations have been
signed by Premier Wen Jiabao, they will not go into effect until
May 2008 to allow time for China's sprawling government system to
digest them.


There was no mention in the new rules of any changes to the
strict control the government has over the media.


The state-run Xinhua news agency said the regulations would
become "the country's most specific and progressive rules
encouraging the opening of government information."


Government units will be required to release information
involving "the immediate interests of individuals and groups" and
which clearly explains the administrative workings of the
government.


They also must establish more user-friendly systems for formally
requesting information from the government and oblige officials
to respond to such requests within a reasonable time.


However, at least one dissident was skeptical about the change.


"I seriously doubt their stated purposes... will actually be
implemented," high- profile AIDS and democracy activist Hu Jia
told AFP.


"The most needed government information will continue to be
covered up."


The move is the latest of several steps China has taken recently
to show it is creating more openness ahead of the 2008 Beijing
Olympics.


On January 1, the government relaxed reporting restrictions on
foreign journalists. It has also ordered major government
departments to set up public affairs units and hold more frequent
news conferences.

