

Pulitzer prize-winning author and Vietnam war journalist David
Halberstam died in a car accident in northern California on
Monday, authorities said.


Halberstam, 73, author of 15 bestsellers but perhaps most famous
for his epic 1972 book on the origins of the Vietnam war "The
Best and the Brightest," was killed in a car crash in Menlo Park,
the San Mateo County Coroner's Office told AFP.


He died of internal injuries at the scene after the car in which
he was traveling was struck at high speed by another vehicle,
said fire chief Harold Schappelhouman.


The front seat passenger's side, where Halberstam was seated and
wearing his safety belt, bore the brunt of the impact,
Schappelhouman said. The driver, a journalism student, was
injured.


Halberstam spoke Saturday night at the University of California
Berkeley on "Turning Journalism into History," and was on his way
to interview a former football player when the crash occurred,
the New York Times said.


The New York-based Halberstam, who authored a total of 21 books
during his life, had been working on a book about the Korean War
that was to be released in the fall.


He reported from Vietnam for the New York Times, in the process
angering then president John F. Kennedy, who asked the Times to
remove him.


Still, the war coverage won Halberstam a Pulitzer Prize at age
30.


"The Best and the Brightest" refers to the military loss in
Vietnam that was engineered by the top minds Washington had to
offer.


The book swayed many Vietnam war hawks to rethink the conflict,
which ended in a US withdrawal, despite upbeat forecasts from the
military.


After graduating from Harvard in 1955, Halberstam worked at the
Daily Times Leader in West Point, Mississippi.


While writing for The Tennessean in Nashville, Tennessee, he
covered the early Civil Rights movement in the late 1950s and
early 1960s.


Once in Vietnam, Halberstam found material for "The Making of a
Quagmire: America and Vietnam during the Kennedy Era."


His books marveled at the arrogance of the "whiz kids," from
academia and industry, whom Kennedy had assembled in Washington,
but whose "brilliant policies that defied common sense" were put
into place despite the warnings of senior staff.


In 500 interviews for "The Best and the Brightest," Halberstam
identified the faulty decision-making process that led to the US
involvement in Vietnam.


He found that an anti-Communist witch hunt by senator Joseph
McCarthy had removed many government experts on Vietnam, and left
Democrats cowed by claims that they had "lost China" to
communism.


Further, government studies showed that a million US troops would
be needed to defeat the Vietnam communists, but the United
States' choice of a gradual escalation meant Vietnam could train
and field troops faster than US solders could kill them.


Halberstam also wrote "Summer of '49," a baseball book about the
1949 pennant race between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red
Sox.


His latest book, "The Education of a Coach," focused on New
England Patriots football coach Bill Belichick.


He wrote another bestseller, "Firehouse," about a New York City
fire station which lost 12 of the 13 men who responded to the
World Trade Center attack on September 11, 2001.


Halberstam, who is survived by his wife and daughter, reflected
on his life in journalism during a 1993 interview with the
California-based Mercury News.


"It's been a wonderful life," he said. "Actually, when I think
about my career I am sometimes stunned. I'm stunned by the
richness of it. It gave me all the things I ever wanted. I loved
being a reporter."

