

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will defend a
controversial US plan to station missile defense bases on
Russia's doorstep in Eastern Europe during an informal meeting of
NATO and Russian foreign ministers this week in Oslo.


At Thursday's one-day meeting, Rice will also voice Washington's
strong backing for a UN proposal to grant independence to
Serbia's NATO-protected province of Kosovo despite Moscow's
staunch opposition to the move, senior US officials said.


The East-West frictions should be on prominent display when
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov joins his North Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) counterparts for an afternoon meeting
of the NATO-Russia council.


"I'm not going to deny they're thorny issues," said State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


But he and other senior officials played down the likelihood of a
US-Russia clash marring a meeting which has become a routine
feature of trans-Atlantic diplomacy.


"I don't think that will really effect the atmosphere
measurably," McCormack said.


US Defence Secretary Robert Gates was in Moscow this week to
defend the US proposal to place 10 unarmed missile interceptors
in Poland and a linked radar in the neighboring Czech Republic,
but to little apparent effect.


Washington insists the network is aimed not at countering
Russia's strategic missile deterrent but rather at neutralizing
the threat of ballistic missiles possibly tipped with nuclear
weapons being wielded by rogue states like Iran.


Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdukov said he was unconvinced
after his talks with Gates on Monday.


"We believe the strategic missile defense system is a seriously
destabilizing factor that can have a significant influence on
regional and global security," he said.


US President George W. Bush weighed in on the issue with a
subsequent phone call to his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin,
though details of their conversation were not released.


US officials express optimism the Russians will eventually accept
a plan for cooperation in the missile defense arena, including
the possibility of sharing early warning data that could emerge
from the Czech radar site.


"The language of their public statements, their public arguments,
is more polemic than strategic," said the State Department's top
Europe official, Dan Fried.


"I believe that when the Russians consider this strategically,
they may come around to realize that it's in their interest to
work with us," he told a recent seminar in Washington.


NATO allies had also voiced concern about the possibly
destabilizing effect of the missile defense scheme, but appear to
have been reassured by US explanations of the plan during
meetings last week in Brussels.


On Kosovo, it may prove harder to calm Russian objections.


Moscow has firmly rejected a plan put forward by UN special envoy
Martti Ahtisaari for phased independence for Kosovo, an
overwhelmingly ethnic Albanian enclave which is also the historic
heartland of Serbia.


The province of two million has been guarded since 1999 by a NATO
force that would continue to play a key role in the region under
Ahtisaari's plan.


Russia argues, with support from some Europeans, that freeing
Kosovo from Serb rule would set a bad precedent for other
separatist-minded regions, notably in the restive Caucasus.


Rice will counter in Oslo that denying independence to Kosovo's
Albanian majority will lead only to more insecurity, senior aides
said.


"One way or another the status quo will end," said Fried, arguing
that the process can be either controlled under UN and EU
auspices, or be violent and "chaotic" as Kosovar Albanians act
unilaterally.


Thursday's meeting will also focus on Afghanistan, where 35,000
troops from NATO and other allies are bracing for a Spring
offensive by the Islamist Taliban militia.


While urgent NATO requests for more troops to counter a resurgent
Taliban have largely been met, McCormack said Rice would address
ways to better coordinate military and civilian efforts to
support the Afghan government.

