

Yao Ming collected 27 points and nine rebounds as the Houston
Rockets held off the Utah Jazz with a 98-90 win in game two of
their first-round National Basketball Association playoff series.


China' Yao shot nine-of-24 from the field and nine-of-nine from
the free-throw line for the Rockets, who shot just 36 percent
(30-of-83) but nailed 34-of-38 foul shots on Monday.


Chuck Hayes added 12 points and 12 rebounds for Houston, which
took a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series by sweeping their two
home games. Game three will be in Utah on Thursday.


"We took ill advised three-point shots in the first half,"
Houston coach Jeff Van Gundy said. "In the second half we had
much better shot selection. We obviously shot free throws well."


Carlos Boozer scored just 11 points on four-of-17 shooting in his
first career post season contest in game one on Saturday. But he
got the hang of the playoffs in his second game, scoring 41
points on 17-of-30 shooting.


However, Rockets Tracy McGrady, who has been maligned for his
postseason shortcomings, continued to march toward his first
playoff series win by scoring 31 points.


"I have been in post season five times. This is first time I felt
like I had great supporting cast to help me get past the first
round," McGrady said.


The superstar swingman managed just one point in the first half
in the series opener but netted 22, including 16 in the third
quarter, in the second half of that contest.


It carried over to Monday's game for the former scoring champion,
who shot nine- of-29 from the field, hit the glass hard and
dished out five assists.


But despite a poor shooting night, McGrady connected on a crucial
jumper down the stretch.


After leading for most of the fourth quarter, two straight
buckets by Boozer cut the Jazz deficit to 90-84 with 1:18 left.


On the ensuing possession, McGrady halted Utah's momentum, rising
over Jazz guard Gordan Giricek to bury a tough fadeaway, making
it 92-84 with 57 seconds left.


"We came up a little short," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "We are
going to have to be better to beat this team. We need everybody
on our team to perform well. We played well but when there is
such disparity in free throws it makes it difficult."


Deron Williams collected 15 points, seven rebounds and seven
assists for the Jazz, who shot 45 percent (38-of-84), including
one-of-nine from the arc.

